{"id": "1267764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1267764", "title": "Adolescent cliques", "text": "Adolescent cliques\n\nAdolescent cliques are cliques that develop amongst adolescents. In the social sciences, the word \"clique\" is used to describe a group of 2 to 12 (averaging 5 or 6) \"who interact with each other more regularly and intensely than others in the same setting\". Cliques are distinguished from \"crowds\" in that their members interact with one another (e.g. hang out together, go shopping, play basketball). Crowds, on the other hand, are defined by reputation. Although the word 'clique' or 'cliquey' is often used in day-to-day conversation to describe relational aggression or snarky, gossipy behaviors of groups of socially dominant teenage girls, that is not scientifically accurate. Interacting with cliques is part of normative social development regardless of gender, ethnicity, or popularity. Although cliques are most commonly studied during adolescence and middle childhood, they exist in all age groups.\n\nAs children enter adolescence, cultural, biological and cognitive changes cause variation in their daily lives. Adolescents spend far less time with their parents and begin participating in both structured and unstructured peer activities. Without the direct presence of their parents or other adults, their peer network begins to become the primary context for most socialization and activity. These social \"cliques\" fundamentally influence adolescent life and development. Perhaps because they are perceived as an external threat to parental authority, undesired changes in adolescent behavior are often attributed to cliques. In these situations, cliques are described as \"social grouping[s] of persons that exhibit a great deal of peer pressure on its members and is exclusive, based on superficial differences\". Researchers, however, question these assumptions: based on empiric data from both experiments and ethnographies they suggest that clique structure characterizes many friendship networks within any given school, not all of which negatively affect adolescents. A more neutral and scientific definition of clique is \"a grouping of persons who interact with each other more regularly and intensely than others in the same setting\".\n\nAlthough cliques can range from two to twelve people, cliques typically consist of five or six people who are homogeneous in age, gender, race, social status, and socioeconomic background. More subtle determinant of group membership, such as shared interests and values, take precedence as adolescents develop more sophisticated, abstract cognitive functions (more here), which allow them to categorize individuals in more subtle ways and better interpret social interactions. Consistent group identities thus allow individuals to cope with the anonymity and intimidation that often accompany the transition into large secondary schools.\n\nSimilar cliques may re-emerge in adulthood in specific contexts, characterized by large, undifferentiated, anonymous crowds. Overall, cliques are a transitory social phase. In general, cliques first form in early adolescence with strict gender segregation, but by middle adolescence, some mixed-gender activities within the peer crowds foster close, cross-sex friendships which begin to restructure the clique. During late adolescence, the organized clique structure typically dissolves into associated sets of couples, which then remain the primary social unit into and throughout adulthood.\n\nCliques are different from other types of peer groups often seen in the average school, which are often reputation-based groups such as jocks or nerds. The major difference is that these reputation-based groups do not necessarily interact with each other, whereas members of a clique do interact with one another and have frequent social interactions. For example, football players are considered jocks, but not all members of a football team always interact with each other.\n\nAlthough the popular media portrays female cliques almost exclusively (see examples in movies, television, and young adult fiction), clique membership is almost equally prevalent in adolescent boys. Girls do, however, tend to form cliques earlier (11 years old as compared with 13 or 14 among boys), which may contribute to the greater popular salience of female cliques. Additionally, the activities central to most female cliques include gossip and emotional sharing; this behavior visibly increases, revealing female cliques to the outside observer. Male cliques, on the other hand, tend to center around activities that have occurred before the formation of the clique (common examples include basketball and video games), and thus may draw less attention to the appearance of male cliques. Male cliques may have also gone largely unnoticed because they often appear less exclusive toward the non-clique peer group members. This last difference may arise because males more frequently reported ambitions related to acceptance and status throughout their crowd, whereas females more often aspired to status and close bonds with only a few peers (i.e. a clique). Males were also more likely to consider actively exclusive behavior unethical, as were younger adolescents. The stereotype of cruel, unwelcoming clique members is well supported in some cases, but other cliques are more open to drifters. Both attitudes appear in some cliques of both sexes and all social groups become more permeable with age. Similarly, although adolescents tend to associate with others of the same ethnicity and socioeconomic status, clique membership is equally common across ethnicity and economic background. The characteristics of the distinct cliques within each demographic group also vary equally, although members of cliques in one crowd or demographic group may not perceive all of the distinctions in others (see also crowds).\n\nA number of recent studies confirm that regardless of gender, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status, adolescents tend to fall into one of three categories: group members, liaisons, and isolates.\n\nMembership type is far more stable over time than membership in an individual clique: isolates generally remain socially disengaged, liaisons remain equally consistent, and \"group members\" frequently switch from one clique to another, but typically remain group members over time. The objective cliques themselves remain surprisingly stable as well. On average, cliques lose around one third of their members over a given school year, but new members with similar characteristics tend to replace the deserters, maintaining the general identity of the clique. Clique membership becomes more stable across time, as well as more permeable, less exclusive, and less hierarchical. Contrary to popular belief, individual friendships are far less stable across the school year. This is particularly true of high-status cliques and individuals, in which clique members must critically analyze their friendships and socialize only with their most popular peers or risk losing membership and status.\n\nUsing the definition of a clique, we are able to draw distinctions between the many different types of cliques a person is able to be a member of. During adolescent years, students may obtain membership to a certain clique in order to ease the process of secondary school. Since adolescents emulating similar cultural standards are likely to become friends and these friends are likely to encourage these aspects of their attitudes, behaviors, and dress, the types of cliques commonly found in schools can vary significantly. Some of the more common types of cliques found include: jocks, tomboys, cheerleaders, mean girls, foreigners, gamers, hipsters, hippies, troublemakers, peacemakers, class clowns, \"cool kids\", arty intellectuals, gangsters, wangsters, \"ghetto kids\", stoners/slackers, girly girls, scenesters, scene kids, punks, preps, skaters, goths, emos, skinheads, geeks/nerds, and drifters.\n\nSociologists Patricia and Peter Adler claim that Middle School cliques can fall under four specific labels:\n\n\nThe friendship circles can be divided into some categories, such as...\n\nTLC (TV channel) mentions and describes some typical types of teen cliques observable in most high schools.\n\n\nA powerful, yet unstable social hierarchy structures interactions between group members in any given clique. This hierarchy is always topped by the highest-status member, labeled by psychologists as the \"Leader\" or \"Queen Bee\". In her now famous ethnography of adolescent cliques, \"Queen Bees and Wannabes\", author Rosalind Wiseman explains the standard set of roles most frequently adopted by male and female clique members.\n\n\"Females:\"\n\n\n\"Males:\"\n\n\nAlthough too rigid to be entirely accurate across samples, these basic denominations are useful for discussing general behavior and organization within cliques. The role hierarchies within cliques are significantly more stable than the individual members. Maintaining one's status and power requires constant effort. \"Queen Bees\" and \"Leaders\" must work the hardest to protect their positions and typically become manipulative and disliked in the process. For example, a \"Leader\" or \"Queen Bee\" may keep objective attention off of him or herself by unpredictably alternating praise and criticism of other members (see relational aggression). They may also change the way the clique views activities, values, and opinions of things to keep the other members unsure of where they stand in the group.\"\n\nThe \"Leader\" or \"Queen Bee\" also maintains power over group membership—exercised through both tacit and explicit rejection of prospective members—as well as the final say in accepting new members, regardless of the opinions of other members. The majority of new memberships results from one of two approaches: invitation or application. The \"invitation\" approach originates within the clique: a current member of a clique invites a potential member either explicitly or by indirect socialization, which consists of the clique attempting to demonstrate the joys and benefits of membership. Aspiring peers who have not been invited can also \"apply\" by courting the lowest ranking members and progressing up to the \"Leader\" or \"Queen Bee\" who will decide whether to accept him or her.\n\nAdvanced and adaptable social skills are the best predictors of popularity, but further predictors of popularity are difficult to identify, primarily because the schema of \"popularity\" represents the interaction between two distinct concepts. Popularity breaks down into sociometric status (sometimes called \"likability\"), which measures peers' private feelings toward the individual, and perceived popularity, which reflects the individual's status, prestige, and power.\n\nSocio-metric status is determined by fairly universally valuable characteristics including social skills, friendliness, and sense of humor. The foundations of perceived popularity, on the other hand, vary widely. Some popular adolescents are high in both characteristics, but they more often develop in distinct individuals and cliques, all considered \"popular\" during adolescence.\n\nRegardless of popularity type, highly popular individuals influence local norms and behaviors in similar ways: \"adolescents are easily swayed by the opinions of high-status peers to endorse activities they might otherwise reject and to run the other way from activities endorsed by low-status peers, even if they secretly enjoy them\". The popular individuals themselves, however, fare differently depending on the root of their status. Several recent studies proved the discriminant validity of the two groups and found that perceived popularity in high school is predictive of alcohol use, sexual activity, and smoking. It may also be associated with a lasting drop in sociometric status. Several recent studies suggest that long-term outcomes are generally more positive for individuals who were neither Isolates nor among the most popular during adolescence.\n\nA status hierarchy much like that within individual cliques organizes the various cliques within each peer crowd. The crowds within a given school are also perceived hierarchically. Crowd ranking can sometimes change but is generally quite stable across time and schools. Part of a clique's popularity status is based on the crowd with which its members associate, thus similarly-popular cliques within the same crowd are more likely to move within the hierarchy than are similar crowds within the larger peer context.\n\nBoth because students meet and seek friends with others who share their interests (\"selection\") and because much of clique members time, both free and structured, takes place in the company of the other members (\"socialization\"), cliques are usually defined by common attitudes and activities. Among the most powerful determinants of clique membership are orientation toward school, orientation toward teen culture, and involvement in antisocial behavior.\n\nBecause studying time and partying time conflict, most individuals are rarely exposed to individuals from the opposite end of this spectrum during unstructured time. Membership in the same clique with peers whose values are highly distinct is thus uncommon. Individuals with only somewhat different views of school, however, are likely to belong to the same clique, and socialization is likely to decrease their differences over time. For example, girls' decisions about enrollment in advanced math are significantly related to those of their close friends. A study of 78 high schools found that even controlling for past achievement, the GPAs of an individual's close friends reliably help predict grades; in fact \"of all the characteristics of friends that influence adolescents' behavior, their friends' school performance has the greatest impact, not only on their own academic achievement, but also on their involvement in problem behavior and drug use.\"\n\nSimilar taste in music and clothing signal others with potentially shared interests and values and often suggest the leisure activities and substance use patterns of which they approve. Thus adolescents emulating similar cultural standards are likely to become friends and these friends are likely to encourage these aspects of their attitudes, behaviors, and dress. Participation in subcultures can also reinforce belonging. In many cases, clique members can be easily identified based on dress alone.\n\nResearch does not support the common belief that troubled adolescents have few or no friends. Instead such individuals gravitate toward one another and form their own cliques, although these friendships do often differ from the friendships of more socially acceptable children. This general self-sorting trend applies in different ways to specific kinds of antisocial behavior. A few of the most studied are substance use, aggression, and depressive symptoms.\n\nSimilarity in substance use is one of the most powerful factors in clique development and lasting membership, even serving as the earliest predictor of cross-gender friendships and the most common basis for multi-ethnic cliques. Alcohol and drug use are predicted by the interaction between number of substance using friends, the extent of their substance use, and perceived closeness to those friends; a substance-free adolescent is thus unlikely to seek out or be accepted by a clique characterized by frequent substance use and even more unlikely to remain substance-free long after entering such clique\nCliques typically fall into one of four categories and clique membership reliably predicts individual behavior.\nMembers of \"High Functioning\" and \"Engaged\" cliques demonstrated the best long-term outcomes, whereas \"Maladjusted\" clique membership predicted low achievement, chronic substance abuse, and confrontation with authorities and \"Disengaged\" clique members and others who abstained completely typically exhibited abnormally high anxiety and inhibition.\n\nGravitation toward similar peer groups can be especially dangerous for adolescents with aggressive tendencies. A recent observational study on antisocial, aggressive boys established that clique members tended to live in the same neighborhood, where they met and bonded through unstructured, unsupervised activities. Since antisocial groups encourage antisocial behavior, aggressive behaviors tend to escalate rapidly within groups of aggressive adolescents. In the case of bullies this effect is so detrimental that those without any friends are actually more likely to improve over time than those with friends and generally experience better long-term outcomes. In the most extreme cases, these groups may become gangs or practice less organized, but equally dangerous, violent delinquency\n\n\nAlthough these maladjusted, detrimental cliques can develop among adolescents of either gender, those based on aggression and delinquency are more often observed in males. In females, adjustment problems are more often manifested as internalizing problems, rather than the externalizing problems common among their male peers. Research shows, however, that both internalizing and externalizing behaviors are negatively related to the subjective sense of strong, reliable group belonging, even controlling for adolescent age, gender, ethnicity, family structure, and parents' educational level.\n\nBecause adolescent females, on average, both report stronger feelings of group belonging and place greater importance on this feeling than do their male peers, girls who do not feel accepted may be more susceptible than equally excluded boys to forming and conforming to cliques based on shared maladaptive behavior. If so, differences in internalizing or externalizing behaviors of adolescent boys and girls may be magnified during adolescence, contributing to the significant gender differences observed in adult outcomes such as incarceration and mood disorders. For example, the same cycle of selection and socialization known to exacerbate aggression applies to the internalizing behaviors associated with depression. One study on the emergence of depression in adolescence found that even controlling for the effects of age and pubertal development, gender predicted several small but significant differences: (a) depressive symptoms and negative peer relations predicted increasing levels of reassurance-seeking in female subjects; (b) initial levels of reassurance-seeking predicted deteriorating friendship quality among girls and initial levels of depressive symptoms, which were higher among girls, predicted low friendship stability among all subjects, and (c) \"reassurance-seeking combined with poor peer experiences predicted increases in girls' depressive symptoms.\"\n\nPerhaps related to the role of reassurance-seeking, those who both value and experience social acceptance are far less likely to exhibit problem behavior than those who value group membership equally, but are uncertain of their relationship. This relationships is better predicted by self-esteem than the actual quality of the relationships, although also directly related to discordance in personal and peer ratings of status. This effect likely arises cyclically: troubled children are rejected by their peers for their undesirable behavior, while rejected children receive less normative socialization and behave more problematically.\n\nAlthough there are exceptions, demographic factors typically influence adolescent crowd membership even before real cliques begin to form and often influence clique membership more powerfully than personal or behavioral characteristics. Many of the effects on clique composition described below may be largely attributed to crowd segregation.\n\nBecause the contemporary school system divides children by age and structures the majority of most adolescents' time and social exposure, age is the most universal common factor among clique members; notable exceptions include friendships formed in neighborhoods or on the internet and those initiated with early-maturing pubertal girls, all of which are often detrimental to the younger friend.\n\nGender is perhaps the strongest demographic determinant of clique composition in very early puberty. During childhood and early adolescence social segregation between cliques is almost absolute. However, unlike other factors, gender division is temporary.\n\nAnother, less advantageous, powerful determinant of clique formation is socioeconomic class. This trend was first published in the famous \"Elmtown's Youth Study\", which found that \"almost never did adolescents from one social class associate with students from a class that was two ranks higher or lower\". A diverse array of follow-up studies have confirmed that class-consciousness steadily increases throughout adolescence, so that by mid-adolescence clique membership across significantly different social backgrounds is highly anomalous.\n\nIn the United States race remains an even stronger determinant of friendship than socioeconomic status. Like socioeconomic status, ethnicity is not a strong determinant of childhood friendships, but becomes increasingly potent with age. By high school, ethnically mixed cliques are rarely observed. This pattern of social segregation is strongest between black students and all other students and most prevalent in schools where students are divided into academic tracks. This is because various factors disadvantage black children, affecting performance in some cases and adult decisions in others so that in many cases black children are disproportionately likely to be placed in lower tracks, regardless of intelligence or performance resulting in uneven distribution between tracks in the majority of American high schools. Researchers suggest that because close friends in adolescence \"usually have similar attitudes toward school, similar educational aspirations, and similar school achievement levels\", early tracking may both decrease exposure to peers of other racial and socioeconomic backgrounds and decrease perceived similarity with the majority of those peers Racial divisions are most acute in tracked schools but are fundamental to crowd and clique composition in almost all American schools, and thus cannot be attributed to, nor changed by, any one educational program. More encouragingly, however, longitudinal observations suggest that interventions in early childhood may have the potential to influence social segregation: the more schools foster close cross-racial friendships in childhood the less peer group segregation manifests.\n\nA well-established factor in clique composition is religious background, affiliation, and participation. This is somewhat confounded by overlap with socioeconomic status, but also relates to behavioral correlates of religion and selection by both individual and their peers.\n\nCliques reputation is often determined by their most noticeable behavioral characteristic that is shared among their members. The characteristic might be so salient that it could dominate the way that members of that clique are perceived and treated by other peers regardless of the individual differences that each member has. For example, a clique group could be perceived as athletic, but say an individual in that group is very smart and gets good grades in school. That individual would be treated based on his athletic characteristics rather than his intellectual abilities. When people are treated based on a single characteristic it changes their self-image, resulting in a change in who they are. This phenomenon is known as the looking glass self; individuals become more like the way they think they are perceived by others. So for the example where the individual was treated based on his athletic abilities rather than his intelligence, that person will likely focus his attention more on sports rather than doing well in school, causing him or her to become even more like the clique he or she is a part of. This phenomenon where individuals in a group tend to be more like each other than non-group members is known as group homophily. Children almost always choose to be friends of people who share similarities with themselves, hence why similar characteristics among clique members establish the clique's reputation and allow different cliques to be told apart.\n\nMost people agree that children are affected by who they associate with, but what is not well understood is the specific characteristics that children of similar types of groups share. The focus of these authors' research was to discover the different emotional and social effects that members of the same cliques share. For their study they divided the 473 fourth and fifth graders into five groups, which were: competent, tough, average, withdrawn, and incompetent/aggressive. The researchers did this by having students rate their classmates on several characteristics; bright, fun, bully, withdrawn, athletic, prosocial, reactive aggression. They then measured differences among groups by asking children questions regarding peers social status and behavioral characteristics. For example, they asked participants to nominate up to three participating classmates who \"tries to get what he or she wants by hitting, shoving, pushing or threatening others\". In addition, they asked children questions about themselves that regarded to levels of loneliness and children's social dissatisfaction.\n\nThe researcher's discovered differences in emotional well-being and social satisfaction between different types of clique groups. They found that competent and average groups showed positive characteristics such as good interpersonal skills, whereas withdrawn, incompetent/aggressive and tough cliques lacked emotional well-being and social satisfaction. Another discovery was that social status levels did not distinguish average, competent and tough cliques from one another. Therefore, if an individual is in one of these three groups they are no more likely to have a high social status than a low social status. Their conclusion to these findings was that even when taking into account individuals social status level, the type of clique people are in has a significant effect on their social and emotional characteristics.\n\nA recent study done by Witvliet, Van Lier, Cuijpers and Koot shows the differences in behavioral characteristics between clique members and non-clique members in early elementary school, the stability of clique membership and whether the differences in these characteristics are gender oriented. Three hundred first-grade students (151 boys, 149 girls) from eleven different elementary schools in the Netherlands participated. The children were examined by being asked to determine their best friends. This friendship was considered valid if the elected friendship was reciprocated by the other child. The child was considered to be in a clique when the following criteria was overcome 1) consisted of at least three children 2) each child had to have more connections with members than non-members and 3) a link had to occur between all members of clique. Children were then rated by their peers to determine who was liked the most versus who was liked the least. The children were also asked to determine behavioural characteristics of participants and who best fit the description of characteristics such as aggressive, anxious, etc. The peer study was followed through every spring and children were given a small reward for their involvement. These results were then used to compare between clique members and non-clique members. These results were also used to discuss the children's characteristics while also separating based on gender. In first grade, 29 cliques were found with an average of 5.3 members. In second grade 25 cliques were found with an average of 6.2 members. This study suggests that clique members tend to be more adjusted and that gender may have some form of influence on the results. This study showed that isolated girls would have more behavioural problems than isolated boys.\n\nResearches have often conducted studies to determine whether membership to a clique produces positive or negative development. In one 4-year study of 451 children from age nine to twelve, Miranda Witvliet along with Pol A. C. van Lier, Mara Brendgen, Hans M. Koot, and Frank Vitaro examined longitudinal associations between clique membership status and internalizing and externalizing problems during late childhood. In this quasi-experiment the researchers aimed to discover if clique membership status was linked to increases in children's psychopathology. Children from five different elementary schools in northwestern Quebec, Canada were the participants of this particular study. In the study, clique membership status was identified through social network analysis, and peer nominations were used to assess internalizing and externalizing problems. The study used the program Kliquefinder to identify clique membership status through social network analysis. Through use of behavioural descriptions on the Pupil Evaluation Inventory (PEI), peer nominations of externalizing and internalizing behaviors were obtained.\n\nThrough this study, Witvliet, van Lier, Brendgen, Koot, and Vitaro noted that externalizing problems increased among clique members. They found that clique members compared with isolated children showed, on average, an increase in externalizing problems across that same period. While no sex differences were found in the link between clique membership status and internalizing problems, the association found between clique membership and an increase in externalizing problems was specific to boys only. The researchers claimed that these results support the hypothesis that clique membership protects children against developing internalizing problems.\n\nDuring middle adolescence, the social norms that once enforced sex cleavage shift to encourage mixed-sex socialization. Single-sex cliques begin to seek out the company of opposite-sex cliques, although at first almost all direct interaction remains within the individual cliques despite the presence of the other clique(s). Gradually, intersex relationships and mixed sex cliques develop, closely followed by the first romantic relationships, which typically appear among early-pubertal, high-status, more physically developed adolescents. Over the course of late adolescence romantic relationships replace clique hierarchies as the most potent determinants of social status and networks of dating couples eventually replace more rigidly structured cliques.\n\nThe chronological relationship between changing gender dynamics and the dissolution of organized, hierarchical cliques is well-established, but not fully understood. One theory asserts that sex cleavage both arises and wanes because cliques are largely sorted by common interests: girls and boys are generally interested in different activities until dating emerges, after which they share a highly valued activity.(164) This idea is consistent with the direct relationship between pubertal development and the appearance of other-sex friends.\nOne possible explanation for this progression argues that children are socialized from childhood to conform to gender roles and during early adolescence cognitive developments promote active self-presentation and anxiety over peer-perceptions; as a result, early adolescents become more consciously aware of both the benefits of conventional gender identity and the threat of ridicule or rejection in response to unorthodox behavior. According to this framework, gender segregation subsides because the same inculcated gender roles that prompt children to distance themselves from anything associated with the opposite sex also encourage adolescents and adults to demonstrate heterosexual desire and sexual/seductive competence. This argument explains the drastic shift in the targets of ridicule from those who were too androgynous in middle school to those who can not or do not attract sexual attention in high school.\n\nThe effects of such social enforcement of gender-roles, may take the form of relational aggression, bullying, and gay bullying.\n\nPerhaps the most consequential finding from the empirical study of adolescent cliques is that they are not an inherently negative force, but rather part of normative development in our society. Although it is certainly true that certain cliques can negatively influence development, others can actually benefit adolescents. In cases in which clique influence is negative, it is encouraging to note that while most forms of interventions are fairly ineffective and peer group interventions frequently produce iatrogenic effects, interventions with parents have yielded encouraging results.\n\n"}
{"id": "13676582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13676582", "title": "Alfred Dolge", "text": "Alfred Dolge\n\nAlfred Dolge (December 22, 1848 – January 5, 1922) was a German born industrialist, inventor, and author of two books.\n\nOriginally an importer and manufacturer of piano materials he later founded his own factory, manufacturing felt products at Brockett’s Bridge, Fulton County, New York which in 1887 was renamed to Dolgeville, New York.\n\nAlfred Dolge was born December 22, 1848 in Chemnitz, Saxony. He attended public school in Leipzig until he was 17 when he entered his fathers’ business, the A. Dolge and Co., Piano Manufacturers, as an apprentice. He pursued high school studies in a night school conducted by the Free Masons in Leipzig and received his diploma from them. He first came to the United States in 1865, when he was 17. He remained permanently in 1868 and worked in piano making and importing in New York City.\nIn 1874 Dolge went to Brockett's Bridge, Fulton County, New York, prospecting for spruce wood to be used for piano sounding boards.\nHe purchased the old Brockett building and in April 1875, he began manufacturing felt in it, later known as the Dolge Company Factory Complex. Within a few years Brockett's Bridge grew from 325 to over 2,000 inhabitants, many of whom were German immigrants, whom he had interested in the area by advertisements and agents. Eventually, Dolge built felt mills, made felt shoes, autoharps, piano cases, piano sounding boards, piano hammers, ran lumber yards, and contributed to the local physical infrastructure and educational needs.In 1887 the citizens unanimously petitioned the authorities at Washington to change the name of the place from Brockett’s Bridge to Dolgeville, New York.\n\nDolge failed financially and left Dolgeville in May 1899. He lived in California and started a business there. He died in Milan, Italy on January 5, 1922 on a round the world tour. He is buried in the Dolgeville cemetery.\n\nIn late 2014, Alfred Dolge's 1895 mansion, which stood behind the historic factory complex was destroyed by fire. The mansion was owned by Charles Soukup, who had recently purchased and converted the Dolge Company Factory Complex. To date, the cause of the fire has yet to be determined.\n\nInspired by his early readings of Liebknecht, Marx, Mill, and Adam Smith, Dolge instituted at Dolgeville a form of what we now call social security in his attempt to create an idealistic socialistic utopia. About 1876, when the factory was first well established, Dolge began to set up his Pension Plan which remained almost exactly the same throughout his tenure. It was extremely generous, ranging from 50 percent of wages for disability after 10 years service up to 100 percent after 25 years.\nLater he added a system of life insurance paid for by the firm. He also instituted a program of Earning-Sharing whereby an employee received a portion of the earnings according to his contribution in brains or the value of his work. This was not to be turned over until retirement, but was to be reinvested. The Pension Plan was non-contributory by the employee. The employer paid all. When Dolge’s business failed in 1899, few of the benefits which he had envisioned had been paid, but the ideas which he pioneered proved to be very lasting.\nHis ideas gained worldwide attention. The government of Germany officially requested details of his Plan and adopted it with some changes. In 1889, the government of France asked for a detailed account. The insurance, pension and endowment plans instituted by Dolgeville were also copied and adapted by railroads and many other corporations in America.\n\nIn 1896, he printed a 243-page paperbound book entitled \"The Practical Applications of Economic Theories in the Factories of Alfred Dolge and Son.\"\nIn 1911 he published a book on the development of the piano in Europe, America, Russia and Japan.\n\nBecause of Dolge, Dolgeville had the:\n\n"}
{"id": "1694494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694494", "title": "Alpine race", "text": "Alpine race\n\nThe Alpine race is a historical race concept defined by some late 19th-century and early 20th-century anthropologists as one of the sub-races of the Caucasian race. The origin of the Alpine race was variously identified. Ripley argued that it migrated from Central Asia during the Neolithic revolution, splitting the Nordic and Mediterranean populations. It was also identified as descending from the Celts residing in Central Europe in Neolithic times. The Alpine race is mainly distinguished by its cranial measurements, such as high cephalic index. \n\nThe term \"Alpine\" (\"H. Alpinus\") has historically been given to denote a physical type within the Caucasian race, first defined by William Z. Ripley (1899), but originally proposed by Vacher de Lapouge. It is equivalent to Joseph Deniker's \"Occidental\" or \"Cevenole\" subrace and Jan Czekanowski identified it, as of the \"Lappanoid\" race which means that Alpines are a mixture of Lappanoid and Armenoid. In the early 20th century the Alpine physical type was popularised by numerous anthropologists, such as Thomas Griffith Taylor and Madison Grant, as well as in Soviet era anthropology. The Homo Alpinus was first proposed by the French raciologist Georges Vacher de Lapouge, but Chanda picked it up through the writings of T. A. Joyce. 37 Like Sur, Chanda had denied any direct relationship between Bengali upper castes and north Indian upper castes. 38 Yet, this did not mean that the Bengali upper castes were autochthons; they were merely descended from a separate branch of the Aryan family tree, namely, the Homo Alpinus.\n\nThe German Nazi Party under the influence direction of Hans F. K. Günther, recognized the Germans as including five Aryan racial subtypes, described by Günther in his work \"Kleine Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (1929): Nordic, Alpine, Mediterranean, East Baltic, and Dinaric, viewing Nordics as being at the top of the racial hierarchy. He defined each racial subtype according to general physical appearance and their psychological qualities including their \"racial soul\" - referring to their emotional traits and religious beliefs, and provided detailed information on their hair, eye, and skin colours, facial structure. He provided photographs of Germans identified as Nordic in places like Baden, Stuttgart, Salzburg, and Swabia; and provided photographs of Germans he identified as Nordic and Mediterranean types, especially in Bavaria and the Black Forest region of Baden. Hitler was so impressed by this work by Günther, that he made it the basis of his eugenics policy.\n\nAdolf Hitler utilized the term Alpine to refer to a type of the Aryan race, and in an interview spoke admiringly about his idol Italian Fascist leader Benito Mussolini, commending Mussolini's Alpine racial heritage saying:\nIt however fell out of popularity by the 1950s, but reappeared in the literature of Sonia Mary Cole (1963) and Carleton Coon (1969). In more recent sources, a small array of anthropologists accustomed with such usage, still use the term.\n\nA typical Alpine skull is regarded as brachycephalic ('broad-headed'), but may be within the mesocephalic range as well. As well as being broad in the crania, this thickness appears generally elsewhere in the morphology of the Alpine, as Hans Günther describes:\n\nRipley (1899) further notes that the nose of the Alpine is broader (mesorrhine) while their hair is usually a chestnut colour and their occiputs are slightly rounded. According to Robert Bennett Bean (1932) the skin pigmentation of the Alpine is an 'intermediate white', a colour in-between the lighter skinned Nordic and the darker-skinned Mediterranean. Despite the large numbers of alleged Alpines, the characteristics of the Alpines were not as widely discussed as those of the Nordics and Mediterraneans. Typically they were portrayed as \"sedentary\": solid peasant stock, the reliable backbone of the European population, but not outstanding for qualities of leadership or creativity. Madison Grant insisted on their \"essentially peasant character\".\n\nAccording to Ripley and Coon, the Alpine race is predominant in Central Europe and parts of Western/Central Asia. Ripley argued that the Alpines had originated in Asia, and had spread westwards along with the emergence and expansion of agriculture, which they established in Europe. By migrating into Central Europe, they had separated the northern and southern branches of the earlier European stock, creating the conditions for the separate evolution of Nordics and Mediterraneans. This model was repeated in Madison Grant's book \"The Passing of the Great Race\" (1916), in which the Alpines were portrayed as the most populous of European and western Asian races. However, in Carleton Coon's rewrite of Ripley's \"The Races of Europe\", he developed a different argument that they reduced the Upper Paleolithic survivors indigenous to Europe, based on prehistoric broad-headed crania unearthed at Grenelle, France, and the findings at Furfooz in the Belgian province of Namur:\nCoon further argued that they were linked to their unreduced (Brünn, Borreby) counterparts.\n\nA debate concerning the origin of the Alpine race in Europe, involving Arthur Keith, John Myres and Alfred Cort Haddon was published by the Royal Geographical Society in 1906.\n\nDespite the large numbers of this alleged race, the characteristics of the Alpines were not as widely discussed and disputed as those of the Nordics and Mediterraneans. Typically they were portrayed as \"sedentary\": solid peasant stock, the reliable backbone of the European population, but not outstanding for qualities of leadership or creativity. Madison Grant insisted on their \"essentially peasant character\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18863537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863537", "title": "Bagdi caste", "text": "Bagdi caste\n\nThe Bagdis are indigenous people descended from people with Dravidian links found in the Indian state of West Bengal and Bangladesh. The Bagdis are populous in Bankura, Birbhum and other districts in the western fringe of West Bengal. They speak Bengali.\n\nThe Bagdis numbered 2,740,385 in West Bengal in the 2001 Indian census and were 14.9 per cent of the scheduled caste population of West Bengal. 47.7 per cent of the Bagdis were literate – 60.4 per cent males and 34.8 per cent females were literate.\n\nThe Bagdis were one of the most prominent warrior clans in old India. During the British rule in India, many bands of Bagdis were involved in criminal activities and as a result, they were declared as criminal tribes by the British.\n\n"}
{"id": "21129442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21129442", "title": "Barack Obama \"Hope\" poster", "text": "Barack Obama \"Hope\" poster\n\nThe Barack Obama \"Hope\" poster is an image of Barack Obama designed by artist Shepard Fairey, which was widely described as iconic and came to represent his 2008 presidential campaign. It consists of a stylized stencil portrait of Obama in solid red, beige and (light and dark) blue, with the word \"progress\", \"hope\" or \"change\" below (and other words in some versions).\n\nThe design was created in one day and printed first as a poster. Fairey sold 290 of the posters on the street immediately after printing them. It was then more widely distributed—both as a digital image and other paraphernalia—during the 2008 election season, initially independently but with the approval of the official Obama campaign. The image became one of the most widely recognized symbols of Obama's campaign message, spawning many variations and imitations, including some commissioned by the Obama campaign. This led \"The Guardian's\" Laura Barton to proclaim that the image \"acquired the kind of instant recognition of Jim Fitzpatrick's Che Guevara poster, and is surely set to grace T-shirts, coffee mugs and the walls of student bedrooms in the years to come.\"\n\nIn January 2009, after Obama had won the election, Fairey's mixed-media stenciled portrait version of the image was acquired by the Smithsonian Institution for its National Portrait Gallery. Later in January 2009, the photograph on which Fairey based the poster was revealed: a June 2006 shot by former Associated Press freelance photographer Mannie Garcia. In response to claims by the Associated Press for compensation, Fairey sued for a declaratory judgment that his poster was a fair use of the original photograph. The parties settled out of court in January 2011, with details of the settlement remaining confidential.\n\nOn February 29, 2012, Fairey pleaded guilty in a New York federal court to destroying and fabricating documents during his legal battle with the Associated Press. Fairey had sued the news service in 2008 after it claimed that the famous poster was based on one of its photos. Fairey claimed that he used a different photograph for the poster. But he admitted that, in fact, he was wrong and tried to hide the error by destroying documents and manufacturing others, which is the source of the one count of criminal contempt to which he pleaded guilty. In September, Fairey was sentenced to two years of probation, 300 hours of community service, and a fine of $25,000.\n\nIn 2009 Fairey's Obama portrait was featured in the book \"\" which Fairey also edited.\n\nIn an interview with \"Esquire\" in 2015 Fairey said that Obama had not lived up, \"not even close,\" to his expectations. He continued, \"Obama has had a really tough time, but there have been a lot of things that he's compromised on that I never would have expected. I mean, drones and domestic spying are the last things I would have thought [he'd support].\"\n\nShepard Fairey, who had created earlier political street art critical of government and of George W. Bush, discussed the nascent Obama campaign with publicist Yosi Sergant in late October 2007. Sergant suggested Fairey create some art in support of Obama. Sergant contacted the Obama campaign to seek its permission for Fairey to design an Obama poster, which was granted a few weeks before Super Tuesday. Fairey has said that his decision to create a portrait of Obama stemmed from Fairey's feeling that Obama's \"power and sincerity as a speaker would create a positive association with his likeness.\" Fairey found a photograph of Obama using Google Image Search (eventually revealed to be an April 2006 photo by freelancer Mannie Garcia for The Associated Press) and created the original poster design in a single day. The original image had the word \"\" and featured Fairey's signature star—a symbol associated with his \"Andre the Giant Has a Posse\" street art campaign—embedded in the Obama campaign's sunrise logo. Due to the Obama campaign's concerns about the troublesome connotations of the original wording, Fairey changed the slogan printed under Obama's image from \"\" to \".\"\n\nAccording to design writer Steven Heller, the poster was inspired by Social Realism and, while widely praised as original and unique, can be seen as part of a long tradition of contemporary artists drawing inspiration from political candidates and producing \"posters that break the mold not only in terms of color and style but also in message and tone.\" Fairey has said, \"My historical inspiration was the well-known JFK portrait where he is posed in a three-quarters view looking slightly upward and out into the distance. The image of Lincoln on the five-dollar bill has a similar feel.\"\n\nFairey began screen-printing posters soon after completing the design and showing it to Yosi Sergant. Initially, he sold 350 and put 350 more up in public. Beginning with that sale and continuing throughout the campaign, Fairey used proceeds from selling the image to produce more of it; after first printing, he made 4,000 more that were distributed at Obama rallies before Super Tuesday. He also put a printable digital version on his website. As Fairey explained in an October 2008 interview, the image quickly went viral, spreading spontaneously through social media and word of mouth.\n\nAfter the initial 700 posters, the Obama campaign conveyed through Sergant that they wanted to promote the theme of \"hope\", and most of the posters sold by Fairey subsequently had the word \" and later \" instead of \"\"; the star was also absent from later versions. By October 2008, Fairey and Sergant claimed to have printed 300,000 posters (with less than 2,000 sold and the rest given away or displayed) and 1,000,000 stickers, as well as clothing and other items with the image sold through Fairey's website, in addition to copies printed by others. According to Fairey and Sergant, proceeds from sales of the image were used to produce more posters and other merchandise in support of the Obama campaign, rather than direct profit for Fairey.\n\nAs the campaign progressed, many parodies and imitations of Fairey's design appeared. For example, one anti-Obama version replaced the word \" with \", while parody posters featuring opponents Sarah Palin and John McCain had the word \"\". In January 2009 \"Paste\" magazine launched a site allowing users to create their own versions of the poster. More than 10,000 images were uploaded to the site in its first two weeks.\n\n\"Mad\" magazine parodied the \"\" poster with an \"Alfred E. Neuman for President!\" poster. Alfred was on the poster, and the word \" was replaced with \". Anti-Gaddafi protesters in Chicago, in solidarity with the 2011 Libyan civil war, have co-opted the image.\nDynamite Comics released a four-part crossover with Obama and Ash Williams of their \"Army of Darkness\" comics and the \"Evil Dead\" films. One of the issues covers had a picture of Ash Williams (played by Bruce Campbell in the films) in the style of the \"Hope\" poster with the bottom text reading \"Hope?\"\n\nFairey was also commissioned to create a number of works in the same style. He produced two other versions, based on different photographs, officially on behalf of the Obama campaign, and another to serve as the cover of the \"Person of the Year\" issue of \"Time\". He also created a portrait of comedian Stephen Colbert in the same style, which appeared in an issue of \"Entertainment Weekly\" honoring Colbert's television show \"The Colbert Report\".\n\nFiras Alkhateeb, the student who designed the controversial Obama \"Joker\" image, cited Fairey as being his greatest influence. Alkhateeb described the \"Joker\" image as a corrective to Fairey's glowing portrayal of Obama. Fairey has both criticized and praised the \"Joker\" poster, stating \"The artwork is great in that it gets a point across really quickly\", but \"I don't agree with the political content of the poster\".\n\nConservative satire site The People's Cube made visual and verbal punning images, such as \"Chaos\" with an image of Rush Limbaugh (\"Operation Chaos\"), \"Shrugged\" with an image of Ayn Rand (for her novel \"Atlas Shrugged\") and \"Marxism\" with an image of Groucho Marx.\n\nThe September 2009 issue of \"The Advocate\", America's oldest-continuing LGBT publication, featured a cover image similar to Fairey's design. The blue and red coloring was replaced with pink and purple, but instead of \", the caption was \". Jon Barrett, the magazine's editor-in-chief, said the cover expressed the frustration among some Democratic members of the LGBT community.\n\nThe poster has also been parodied in popular culture. In the Futurama episode \"Proposition Infinity,\" a similar poster of President Richard Nixon can be seen, with the slogan \"DESPAIR\". In the 2010 movie \"Megamind\", a version of the poster can be seen using Megamind's visage and the caption \"NO YOU CAN'T\", parodying Obama's campaign slogan \"Yes we can\". Disney's animated series \"Phineas and Ferb\" has two episodes, \"Nerds of a Feather\" and \"She's the Mayor\", both with Obama's poster parodied with Candace's face. American heavy metal band Five Finger Death Punch has released a version with their mascot and the words \"WAR\", referring to their album \"War Is The Answer\". In \"Iron Man 2,\" Tony Stark receives a similar poster of the Iron Man armor and hangs it in his Malibu garage, much to the displeasure of his assistant and love interest Pepper Potts. The 4th season of \"BoJack Horseman\" features Mr. Peanutbutter's version of the poster as he's running for governor. \n\nShepard Fairey created an adaptation of the Obama HOPE poster for satirical Kentucky politician Honest Gil Fulbright. The poster for Honest Gil Fulbright features a portrait of Frank L. Ridley, the actor who portrays Fulbright, with the words \"SOLD,\" which refers to Fulbright's \"honest\" political message: \"I'm only in this thing for the money, but at least I'm honest about it.\"\n\nHome Box Office (HBO) created a parody of the poster to promote the fifth season of their satire comedy \"Veep\". The poster was placed on roadside billboards, and other public places to help promote the return.\n\nSympathizing with the Occupy movement, in November 2011 Shepard Fairey introduced a variation of his \"Hope\" poster. In the new poster, he featured a Guy Fawkes mask, and the message \"Mister President, we HOPE you're on our side\", with the word \"HOPE\" in large font and the rest of the sentence in small font. The Obama campaign logo on the right was replaced by a similar logo with the inscription \"We are the 99%\".\n\nOn January 7, 2009, the Smithsonian Institution's National Portrait Gallery announced it had acquired Fairey's hand-finished collage (stencil and acrylic on paper) version of the image (with the word \"\"), which the gallery said would go on display shortly before Obama's inauguration on January 20, 2009. The work was commissioned and later donated by art collectors Heather and Tony Podesta (Tony is the brother of Obama's transition co-chairman John Podesta). It is an unusual acquisition, in that the National Portrait Gallery normally collects official portraits as presidents are leaving office rather than before they take office.\n\nThe original source photograph Fairey based the poster on was not publicly known until after Obama had won the election. After a mistaken attribution to Reuters photographer Jim Young for a similar-looking January 2007 photograph, in January 2009 photographer and blogger Tom Gralish discovered that the poster was based on an Associated Press photograph by freelance photographer Mannie Garcia. It was taken at a 2006 media event with Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, where the actor George Clooney was raising awareness of the War in Darfur after a trip to Sudan he had taken with his father.\n\nIn February 2009, the Associated Press announced that it determined \"that the photograph used in the poster is an AP photo and that its use required permission\" and announced they were in discussions with Fairey's attorney to discuss an amicable solution. Fairey was represented by Anthony Falzone, executive director of the Fair Use Project at Stanford University. Falzone was quoted in the press release: \"We believe fair use protects Shepard's right to do what he did here.\" Fairey subsequently filed a federal lawsuit against the Associated Press, seeking a declaratory judgment that his use of the AP photograph was protected by the fair use doctrine and so did not infringe their copyright.\n\nFairey subsequently admitted that he had based the poster on the AP photograph and had fabricated and destroyed evidence to hide the fact. Fairey's admission came after one of his employees told him that he had discovered relevant documents on an old hard drive. Realizing that these documents would reveal his cover-up, Fairey told the truth to his attorney.\n\nPhotographer Mannie Garcia contended that he retained copyright to the photo according to his AP contract. He said that he was \"so proud of the photograph and that Fairey did what he did artistically with it, and the effect it had,\" but that he did not \"condone people taking things, just because they can, off the Internet.\" Fairey countered that his conduct did not constitute \"improper appropriation\" because he had not taken any protected expression from Garcia's original photo. In addition, he claimed his behavior would qualify as a fair use. At trial AP would have to address both arguments.\n\nA judge urged a settlement, stating that AP would win the case. The AP and Shepard Fairey settled out of court in January 2011. In a press release, the AP announced that the AP and Fairey \"agreed to work together going forward with the Hope image and share the rights to make the posters and merchandise bearing the Hope image and to collaborate on a series of images that Fairey will create based on AP photographs. The parties have agreed to additional financial terms that will remain confidential.\"\n\nIn a separate criminal action, federal prosecutors suggested that Fairey should face prison time for the destruction of evidence in the case, with the government sentencing request stating that \"[a] sentence without any term of imprisonment sends a terrible message to those who might commit the same sort of criminal conduct. Encouraging parties to game the civil litigation system [...] creates terrible incentives and subverts the truth-finding function of civil litigation.\" However, his sentence was ultimately limited to 300 hours of community service and a $30,000 fine.\n\n"}
{"id": "32934984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32934984", "title": "Barakai language", "text": "Barakai language\n\nBarakai is one of the Aru languages, spoken by inhabitants of the Aru Islands.\n"}
{"id": "24436737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24436737", "title": "Behna", "text": "Behna\n\nThe Behna (Mansoori) are the Muslim community found in the state of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar pradesh, Bihar, and north India.\n\nThe word Behna comes from the Sanskrit behn or seed. They were historically the community consists of local converts and foreigners who migrated from outside subcontinent Persia and Afghanistan, and have been involved in the traditional occupation of cotton ginning/trading[8]. Some of Mansoori is converted Muslims and Those people believes in their original Rajput caste. According to history, they came from Rajasthan to Gujarat at the time of the form of Ran Singh and resided here. Even today, their main caste - Rao, Deora, Chauhan, Bhati, which is also a Rajput clan[2]. The main origin of this community from Afghanistan and some of whose converted Muslim from Rajput's. But they were called Behna, Dhuna by the Hindu community and it's also mentioned that dhuna, Behna was stated to the Hindu carder not for Muslims.[4] Until some times ago no name in this community as surname, now some people using Pathan/Khan and some using Mansoori as a surname because the ancestor's of this community was Persian Muslims and from Afghanistan.[1] Tipu Sultan (Sultan Fateh Ali Khan Bahadur Tipu) belongs this community.\n\nThe community is concentrated in the Awadh and Rohilkhand regions, with those in Awadh speaking both Urdu and Awadhi, and those in Rohilkhand speaking Khari boli. In Rohilkhand, the community is found mainly in the districts of Bareilly, Bijnor, Moradabad, and Rampur. While in Awadh, they are found in the districts of Sitapur, Hardoi, Kheri, Lucknow, Barabanki, Bahraich, Faizabad and Gonda. .\n\nTheir historical traditional occupation of cotton carding was affected by industrialisation, therefore many adopted manufacturing. They are successful businessmen. This community are no longer as cotton carder and cotton industrialists. They entered in different different sectors and getting well educations. They allow marriages in their own caste, some times they can allow marriage with the same status caste.\n\n[2]Until some times ago no name in this community as surname, now some people using Pathan/Khan and some using Mansoori as a surname because the ancestor's of this community were Persian Muslims and from Afghanistan.\n\nThe Mansoori are Sunni Muslim of the Barelvi & Deoband sect. They speak Urdu, and various dialects of Hindi. Their customs are similar to other Uttar Pradesh Muslims.\n\nMany members of this community migrated to Pakistan in 1947 and have settled in Karachi.\n\n"}
{"id": "37327548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37327548", "title": "Bwanabwana language", "text": "Bwanabwana language\n\nBwanabwana, also known as Tubetube, is an Austronesian language spoken on the small islands just off the eastern tip of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "35516283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35516283", "title": "Byep language", "text": "Byep language\n\nByep, or (North) Makaa, is a Bantu language of Cameroon. Although spoken by the Makaa people and closely related, it is not intelligible with South Makaa.\n"}
{"id": "16006510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16006510", "title": "Chara language", "text": "Chara language\n\nChara (alternatively Ciara or C’ara) is an Afro-Asiatic language of the North Omotic variety spoken in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region of Ethiopia by 13,000 people.\n\nChara is geographically situated to the southeast of Nayi, west of Kullo, northeast of Mesketo, and northwest of Gofa.\nChara speakers live in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region, in the Debub Omo Zone, on both sides of the Omo river. Chara speakers are scattered in three villages in Ethiopia: Geba a meša, Buna Anta, and Kumba. Native speakers may also speak Melo, Wolaytta (54% lexical similarity with Chara) to the east, and Kafa to the west.\n\n[p] and [f] are in free variation. /ɗ/ only occurs in the word /jalɗa~jaltʼa/ 'crooked'. Yilma (2002) found /ɓ/ to occur five times in around 550 lexical items. He also found /ʑ/ occurring in two, both in the sequence /iʑa/. Occurrence of /ɗ/ and /pʼ/ may be governed by dialectual variation.\n\n/a/ is realized as [ə] in unstressed word-medial syllables.\n\nLength is minimally contrastive. Minimal pairs include /mola/ 'fish', /moːla/ 'egg'; /masa/ 'to wash', /maːsa/ 'leopard'; /buna/ 'flower', /buːna/ 'coffee'.\n\nChara has phonemic stress. Examples: /ˈbakʼa/ 'to slap', /baˈkʼa/ 'empty'; /ˈwoja/ 'to come', /woˈja/ 'wolf'.\n\nMorpheme-initial nasals assimilate point of articulation to that of the preceding consonant, usually found when verbs are suffixed with the singular imperative morpheme /-na/, e.g. /dub-na/ 'to hit.imp' → [dubma] 'hit!'.\n\nChara generally uses noun case suffixes and postpositions.\n\nNouns are inflected for gender, number, definiteness, case, and possession. These are all suffixes, except for the possessive.\n\nGender pairs are usually lexical, except for a few with /-i/ in the masculine and /-a/ in the feminine. Examples:\n\nNouns and adjectives inflect for plural with the suffix /-eːndi/. Examples:\n\nDefiniteness in nouns is marked with the suffix /-naːzi/ (as an independent word meaning 'the male/man') for masculines and /-ena/ for feminines. Adjectives take /-bi/ in the masculine and /-ena/ in the feminine. Examples:\n\nNouns and adjectives may be marked for nominative, accusative, dative, genitive, ablative, instrumental, or vocative case. The nominative suffix is /-i/, accusative /-(i)s/, dative /-(i)ri/, genitive /-e/, ablative /-kaj/, instrumental /-ne/, and vocative /-o/.\n\nBound possessive pronouns: /ta-mija/ 'my cow', /ne-mija/ 'your cow', /iza-mija/ 'his cow'.\n\nChara is a subject–object–verb language.\n\nAdjectives end in /-a/ like nouns, and inflect for number, definiteness, plurality, and case. In noun phrases adjectives precede their nouns, and are not inflected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18721790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18721790", "title": "Child sexual abuse", "text": "Child sexual abuse\n\nChild sexual abuse, also called child molestation, is a form of child abuse in which an adult or older adolescent uses a child for sexual stimulation. Forms of child sexual abuse include engaging in sexual activities with a child (whether by asking or pressuring, or by other means), indecent exposure (of the genitals, female nipples, etc.), child grooming, or using a child to produce child pornography.\n\nChild sexual abuse can occur in a variety of settings, including home, school, or work (in places where child labor is common). Child marriage is one of the main forms of child sexual abuse; UNICEF has stated that child marriage \"represents perhaps the most prevalent form of sexual abuse and exploitation of girls\". The effects of child sexual abuse can include depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, complex post-traumatic stress disorder, propensity to further victimization in adulthood, and physical injury to the child, among other problems. Sexual abuse by a family member is a form of incest and can result in more serious and long-term psychological trauma, especially in the case of parental incest.\n\nThe global prevalence of child sexual abuse has been estimated at 19.7% for females and 7.9% for males. Most sexual abuse offenders are acquainted with their victims; approximately 30% are relatives of the child, most often brothers, fathers, uncles, or cousins; around 60% are other acquaintances, such as \"friends\" of the family, babysitters, or neighbors; strangers are the offenders in approximately 10% of child sexual abuse cases. Most child sexual abuse is committed by men; studies on female child molesters show that women commit 14% to 40% of offenses reported against boys and 6% of offenses reported against girls.\n\nThe word \"pedophile\" is commonly applied indiscriminately to anyone who sexually abuses a child, but child sexual offenders are not pedophiles unless they have a strong sexual interest in prepubescent children. Under the law, \"child sexual abuse\" is often used as an umbrella term describing criminal and civil offenses in which an adult engages in sexual activity with a minor or exploits a minor for the purpose of sexual gratification. The American Psychological Association states that \"children cannot consent to sexual activity with adults\", and condemns any such action by an adult: \"An adult who engages in sexual activity with a child is performing a criminal and immoral act which never can be considered normal or socially acceptable behavior.\"\n\nChild sexual abuse can result in both short-term and long-term harm, including psychopathology in later life. Indicators and effects include depression, anxiety, eating disorders, poor self-esteem, somatization, sleep disturbances, and dissociative and anxiety disorders including post-traumatic stress disorder. While children may exhibit regressive behaviours such as thumb sucking or bedwetting, the strongest indicator of sexual abuse is sexual acting out and inappropriate sexual knowledge and interest. Victims may withdraw from school and social activities and exhibit various learning and behavioural problems including cruelty to animals, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), conduct disorder, and oppositional defiant disorder (ODD). Teenage pregnancy and risky sexual behaviors may appear in adolescence. Child sexual abuse victims report almost four times as many incidences of self-inflicted harm.\n\nA well-documented, long-term negative effect is repeated or additional victimization in adolescence and adulthood. A causal relationship has been found between childhood sexual abuse and various adult psychopathologies, including crime and suicide, in addition to alcoholism and drug abuse. Males who were sexually abused as children more frequently appear in the criminal justice system than in a clinical mental health setting. A study comparing middle-aged women who were abused as children with non-abused counterparts found significantly higher health care costs for the former. Intergenerational effects have been noted, with the children of victims of child sexual abuse exhibiting more conduct problems, peer problems, and emotional problems than their peers.\n\nA specific characteristic pattern of symptoms has not been identified, and there are several hypotheses about the causality of these associations.\n\nStudies have found that 51% to 79% of sexually abused children exhibit psychological symptoms. The risk of harm is greater if the abuser is a relative, if the abuse involves intercourse or attempted intercourse, or if threats or force are used. The level of harm may also be affected by various factors such as penetration, duration and frequency of abuse, and use of force. The social stigma of child sexual abuse may compound the psychological harm to children, and adverse outcomes are less likely for abused children who have supportive family environments.\n\nChild abuse, including sexual abuse, especially chronic abuse starting at early ages, has been found to be related to the development of high levels of dissociative symptoms, which includes amnesia for abuse memories. When severe sexual abuse (penetration, several perpetrators, lasting more than one year) had occurred, dissociative symptoms were even more prominent. Recent research showed that females with high exposure to child sexual abuse (CSA) suffer PTSD symptoms that are associated with poor social functioning, which is also supported by prior research studies. The feeling of being “cut-off” from peers and “emotional numbness” are both results of CSA and highly inhibit proper social functioning. Furthermore, PTSD is associated with higher risk of substance abuse as a result of the “self-medication hypothesis” and the “high-risk and susceptibility hypothesis.\" Prolonged exposure therapy (PE) was found to decrease PTSD and depressive symptoms in female methadone using CSA survivors.\n\nBesides dissociative identity disorder (DID), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and complex post-traumatic stress disorder (C-PTSD), child sexual abuse survivors may present borderline personality disorder (BPD) and eating disorders such as bulimia nervosa.\n\nBecause child sexual abuse often occurs alongside other possibly confounding variables, such as poor family environment and physical abuse, some scholars argue it is important to control for those variables in studies which measure the effects of sexual abuse. In a 1998 review of related literature, Martin and Fleming state \"The hypothesis advanced in this paper is that, in most cases, the fundamental damage inflicted by child sexual abuse is due to the child's developing capacities for trust, intimacy, agency and sexuality, and that many of the mental health problems of adult life associated with histories of child sexual abuse are second-order effects.\" Other studies have found an independent association of child sexual abuse with adverse psychological outcomes.\n\nKendler et al. (2000) found that most of the relationship between severe forms of child sexual abuse and adult psychopathology in their sample could not be explained by family discord, because the effect size of this association decreased only slightly after they controlled for possible confounding variables. Their examination of a small sample of CSA-discordant twins also supported a causal link between child sexual abuse and adult psychopathology; the CSA-exposed subjects had a consistently higher risk for psychopathologic disorders than their CSA non-exposed twins.\n\nA 1998 meta-analysis by Bruce Rind et al. generated controversy by suggesting that child sexual abuse does not always cause pervasive harm, that some college students reported such encounters as positive experiences and that the extent of psychological damage depends on whether or not the child described the encounter as \"consensual.\" The study was criticized for flawed methodology and conclusions. The US Congress condemned the study for its conclusions and for providing material used by pedophile organizations to justify their activities.\n\nDepending on the age and size of the child, and the degree of force used, child sexual abuse may cause internal lacerations and bleeding. In severe cases, damage to internal organs may occur, which, in some cases, may cause death.\n\nChild sexual abuse may cause infections and sexually transmitted diseases. Due to a lack of sufficient vaginal fluid, chances of infections can heighten depending on the age and size of the child. Vaginitis has also been reported.\n\nResearch has shown that traumatic stress, including stress caused by sexual abuse, causes notable changes in brain functioning and development. Various studies have suggested that severe child sexual abuse may have a deleterious effect on brain development. Ito et al. (1998) found \"reversed hemispheric asymmetry and greater left hemisphere coherence in abused subjects;\" Teicher et al. (1993) found that an increased likelihood of \"ictal temporal lobe epilepsy-like symptoms\" in abused subjects; Anderson et al. (2002) recorded abnormal transverse relaxation time in the cerebellar vermis of adults sexually abused in childhood; Teicher et al. (1993) found that child sexual abuse was associated with a reduced corpus callosum area; various studies have found an association of reduced volume of the left hippocampus with child sexual abuse; and Ito et al. (1993) found increased electrophysiological abnormalities in sexually abused children.\n\nSome studies indicate that sexual or physical abuse in children can lead to the overexcitation of an undeveloped limbic system. Teicher et al. (1993) used the \"Limbic System Checklist-33\" to measure ictal temporal lobe epilepsy-like symptoms in 253 adults. Reports of child sexual abuse were associated with a 49% increase to LSCL-33 scores, 11% higher than the associated increase of self-reported physical abuse. Reports of both physical and sexual abuse were associated with a 113% increase. Male and female victims were similarly affected.\n\nNavalta et al. (2006) found that the self-reported math Scholastic Aptitude Test scores of their sample of women with a history of repeated child sexual abuse were significantly lower than the self-reported math SAT scores of their non-abused sample. Because the abused subjects' verbal SAT scores were high, they hypothesized that the low math SAT scores could \"stem from a defect in hemispheric integration.\" They also found a strong association between short-term memory impairments for all categories tested (verbal, visual, and global) and the duration of the abuse.\n\nIncest between a child or adolescent and a related adult is known as child incestuous abuse, and has been identified as the most widespread form of child sexual abuse with a huge capacity to damage the young person. One researcher stated that more than 70% of abusers are immediate family members or someone very close to the family. Another researcher stated that about 30% of all perpetrators of sexual abuse are related to their victim, 60% of the perpetrators are family acquaintances, like a neighbor, babysitter or friend and 10% of the perpetrators in child sexual abuse cases are strangers. A child sexual abuse offense where the perpetrator is related to the child, either by blood or marriage, is a form of incest described as \"intrafamilial child sexual abuse\".\n\nThe most-often reported form of incest is father–daughter and stepfather–daughter incest, with most of the remaining reports consisting of mother/stepmother–daughter/son incest. Father–son incest is reported less often; however it is not known if the actual prevalence is less or it is under-reported by a greater margin. Similarly, some argue that sibling incest may be as common, or more common, than other types of incest: Goldman and Goldman reported that 57% of incest involved siblings; Finkelhor reported that over 90% of nuclear family incest involved siblings; while Cawson et al. show that sibling incest was reported twice as often as incest perpetrated by fathers/stepfathers.\n\nPrevalence of parental child sexual abuse is difficult to assess due to secrecy and privacy; some estimates state that 20 million Americans have been victimized by parental incest as children.\n\nChild sexual abuse includes a variety of sexual offenses, including:\n\nCommercial sexual exploitation of children (CSEC) is defined by the Declaration of the First World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, held in Stockholm in 1996, as \"sexual abuse by an adult accompanied by remuneration in cash or in kind to the child or third person(s).\" CSEC usually takes the form of child prostitution or child pornography, and is often facilitated by child sex tourism. CSEC is particularly a problem in developing countries of Asia. In recent years, new innovations in technology have facilitated the trade of Internet child pornography.\n\nChildren who received supportive responses following disclosure had less traumatic symptoms and were abused for a shorter period of time than children who did not receive support. In general, studies have found that children need support and stress-reducing resources after disclosure of sexual abuse. Negative social reactions to disclosure have been found to be harmful to the survivor’s well being. One study reported that children who received a bad reaction from the first person they told, especially if the person was a close family member, had worse scores as adults on general trauma symptoms, post traumatic stress disorder symptoms, and dissociation. Another study found that in most cases when children did disclose abuse, the person they talked to did not respond effectively, blamed or rejected the child, and took little or no action to stop the abuse. Non-validating and otherwise non-supportive responses to disclosure by the child's primary attachment figure may indicate a relational disturbance predating the sexual abuse that may have been a risk factor for the abuse, and which can remain a risk factor for its psychological consequences.\n\nThe American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry provides guidelines for what to say to the victim and what to do following the disclosure. Asa Don Brown has indicated: \"A minimization of the trauma and its effects is commonly injected into the picture by parental caregivers to shelter and calm the child. It has been commonly assumed that focusing on children’s issues too long will negatively impact their recovery. Therefore, the parental caregiver teaches the child to mask his or her issues.\"\n\nIn many jurisdictions, abuse that is suspected, not necessarily proven, requires reporting to child protection agencies, such as the Child Protection Services in the United States. Recommendations for healthcare workers, such as primary care providers and nurses, who are often suited to encounter suspected abuse are advised to firstly determine the child’s immediate need for safety. A private environment away from suspected abusers is desired for interviewing and examining. Leading statements that can distort the story are avoided. As disclosing abuse can be distressing and sometimes even shameful, reassuring the child that he or she has done the right thing by telling and that they are not bad and that the abuse was not their fault helps in disclosing more information. Anatomically correct dolls are sometimes used to help explain what happened, although some researchers consider the dolls too explicit and overstimulating, which might contribute to non-abused children behaving with the dolls in one or more ways that suggest they were sexually abused. For the suspected abusers, it is also recommended to use a nonjudgmental, nonthreatening attitude towards them and to withhold expressing shock, in order to help disclose information.\n\nThe initial approach to treating a person who has been a victim of sexual abuse is dependent upon several important factors:\n\nThe goal of treatment is not only to treat current mental health issues, and trauma related symptoms, but also to prevent future ones.\n\nChildren often present for treatment in one of several circumstances, including criminal investigations, custody battles, problematic behaviors, and referrals from child welfare agencies.\n\nThe three major modalities for therapy with children and adolescents are family therapy, group therapy, and individual therapy. Which course is used depends on a variety of factors that must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. For instance, treatment of young children generally requires strong parental involvement and can benefit from family therapy. Adolescents tend to be more independent; they can benefit from individual or group therapy. The modality also shifts during the course of treatment, for example group therapy is rarely used in the initial stages, as the subject matter is very personal and/or embarrassing.\n\nMajor factors that affect both the pathology and response to treatment include the type and severity of the sexual act, its frequency, the age at which it occurred, and the child’s family of origin. Roland C. Summit, a medical doctor, defined the different stages the victims of child sexual abuse go through, called child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome. He suggested that children who are victims of sexual abuse display a range of symptoms that include secrecy, helplessness, entrapment, accommodation, delayed and conflicted disclosure and recantation.\n\nAdults who have been sexually abused as children often present for treatment with a secondary mental health issue, which can include substance abuse, eating disorders, personality disorders, depression, and conflict in romantic or interpersonal relationships.\n\nGenerally, the approach is to focus on the present problem, rather than the abuse itself. Treatment is highly varied and depends on the person’s specific issues. For instance, a person with a history of sexual abuse suffering from severe depression would be treated for depression. However, there is often an emphasis on cognitive restructuring due to the deep-seated nature of the trauma. Some newer techniques such as eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) have been shown to be effective.\n\nSexual abuse is associated with many sub-clinical behavioral issues as well, including re-victimization in the teenage years, a bipolar-like switching between sexual compulsion and shut-down, and distorted thinking on the subject of sexual abuse (for instance, that it is common and happens to everyone). When first presenting for treatment, the patient can be fully aware of their abuse as an event, but their \"appraisal\" of it is often distorted, such as believing that the event was unremarkable (a form of isolation). Frequently, victims do not make the connection between their abuse and their present pathology.\n\nChild sexual abuse prevention programmes were developed in the United States of America during the 1970s and originally delivered to children. Programmes delivered to parents were developed in the 1980s and took the form of one-off meetings, two to three hours long. In the last 15 years, web-based programmes have been developed.\n\nOffenders are more likely to be relatives or acquaintances of their victim than strangers. A 2006–07 Idaho study of 430 cases found that 82% of juvenile sex offenders were known to the victims (acquaintances 46% or relatives 36%).\n\nMore offenders are male than female, though the percentage varies between studies. The percentage of incidents of sexual abuse by female perpetrators that come to the attention of the legal system is usually reported to be between 1% and 4%. Studies of sexual misconduct in US schools with female offenders have shown mixed results with rates between 4% to 43% of female offenders. Maletzky (1993) found that, of his sample of 4,402 convicted pedophilic offenders, 0.4% were female. Another study of a non-clinical population found that, among those in their sample that had been molested, as many as a third were molested by women.\n\nIn U.S. schools, educators who offend range in age from \"21 to 75 years old, with an average age of 28\".\n\nAccording to C.E. Dettmeijer-Vermeulen, Dutch national spokeswoman on human traffic and sexual violence against children, in the Netherlands, 3% of the convicted perpetrators are women, 14.58% of the victims are boys and \"most victims were abused by a family member, friend or acquaintance.\" One in six perpetrators is himself underage.\n\nEarly research in the 1970s and 1980s began to classify offenders based on their motivations and traits. Groth and Birnbaum (1978) categorized child sexual offenders into two groups, \"fixated\" and \"regressed\". Fixated were described as having a primary attraction to children, whereas regressed had largely maintained relationships with other adults, and were even married. This study also showed that adult sexual orientation was not related to the sex of the victim targeted, e.g. men who molested boys often had adult relationships with women.\n\nLater work (Holmes and Holmes, 2002) expanded on the types of offenders and their psychological profiles. They are divided as follows:\n\nCausal factors of child sex offenders are not known conclusively. The experience of sexual abuse as a child was previously thought to be a strong risk factor, but research does not show a causal relationship, as the vast majority of sexually abused children do not grow up to be adult offenders, nor do the majority of adult offenders report childhood sexual abuse. The US Government Accountability Office concluded, \"the existence of a cycle of sexual abuse was not established.\" Before 1996, there was greater belief in the theory of a \"cycle of violence\", because most of the research done was retrospective—abusers were asked if they had experienced past abuse. Even the majority of studies found that most adult sex offenders said they had \"not\" been sexually abused during childhood, but studies varied in terms of their estimates of the percentage of such offenders who had been abused, from 0 to 79 percent. More recent prospective longitudinal research—studying children with documented cases of sexual abuse over time to determine what percentage become adult offenders—has demonstrated that the cycle of violence theory is not an adequate explanation for why people molest children.\n\nOffenders may use cognitive distortions to facilitate their offenses, such as minimization of the abuse, victim blaming, and excuses.\n\nPedophilia is a condition in which an adult or older adolescent is primarily or exclusively attracted to prepubescent children, whether the attraction is acted upon or not. A person with this attraction is called a \"pedophile\".\n\nIn law enforcement, the term \"pedophile\" is sometimes used to describe those accused or convicted of child sexual abuse under sociolegal definitions of \"child\" (including both prepubescent children and adolescents younger than the local age of consent); however, not all child sexual offenders are pedophiles and not all pedophiles engage in sexual abuse of children. For these reasons, researchers recommend against imprecisely describing all child molesters as \"pedophiles\".\n\nThe term \"pedocriminality\" (De: \"Pädokriminalität\"; Fr: \"pédocriminalité\") is a controversial term which originated in the 1980s and has been used by organisations such as UNICEF, UNHRC, the World Health Organization and the Council of Europe to refer to child sexual abuse and sexual violence used against children, child prostitution, child trafficking and the use of child pornography. The term \"cyber-pedocriminality\" has been used to refer to the activities of viewers of child pornography online.\n\nRecidivism rates for sex offenders are lower than for the general criminal population. Estimated rates among child sex offenders vary. One study found that 42% of offenders re-offended (either a sex crime, violent crime, or both) after they were released. Risk for re-offense was highest in the first 6 years after release, but continued to be significant even 10–31 years later, with 23% offending during this time. A study done in California in 1965 found an 18.2% recidivism rate for offenders targeting the opposite sex and a 34.5% recidivism rate for same-sex offenders after 5 years.\n\nWhen a prepubescent child is sexually abused by one or more other children or adolescent youths, and no adult is directly involved, it is defined as child-on-child sexual abuse. The definition includes any sexual activity between children that occurs without consent, without equality, or due to coercion, whether the offender uses physical force, threats, trickery or emotional manipulation to compel cooperation. When sexual abuse is perpetrated by one sibling upon another, it is known as \"intersibling abuse\", a form of incest.\n\nUnlike research on adult offenders, a strong causal relationship has been established between child and adolescent offenders and these offenders' own prior victimization, by either adults or other children.\n\nAccording to a 2010 UNICEF report, 46% of Congolese schoolgirls confirmed that they had been victims of sexual harassment, abuse, and violence committed by their teachers or other school personnel. In Mozambique, a study by the Ministry of Education found that 70 percent of female respondents reported knowing teachers who use sexual intercourse as a necessary condition to advance students to the next grade. A survey by Promundo found that 16% of girls in North Kivu said they had been forced to have sex with their teachers. According to UNICEF, teachers in Mali are known to use \"La menace du bic rouge\" (\"the threat of the red pen\") or bad marks if girls do not accept sexual advances. According to Plan International, 16% of children in Togo, for instance, named a teacher as responsible for the pregnancy of a classmate.\n\nAlthough there is no known cure for pedophilia, there are a number of treatments for pedophiles and child sexual abusers. Some of the treatments focus on attempting to change the sexual preference of pedophiles, while others focus on keeping pedophiles from committing child sexual abuse, or on keeping child sexual abusers from committing child sexual abuse again. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), for example, aims to reduce attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors that may increase the likelihood of sexual offenses against children. Its content varies widely between therapists, but a typical program might involve training in self-control, social competence and empathy, and use cognitive restructuring to change views on sex with children. The most common form of this therapy is relapse prevention, where the patient is taught to identify and respond to potentially risky situations based on principles used for treating addictions.\n\nThe evidence for cognitive behavioral therapy is mixed. A 2012 Cochrane Review of randomized trials found that CBT had no effect on risk of reoffending for contact sex offenders. Meta-analyses in 2002 and 2005, which included both randomized and non-randomized studies, concluded that CBT reduced recidivism. There is debate over whether non-randomized studies should be considered informative. More research is needed.\n\nBased on self-disclosure data, a 2011 meta-analysis of 217 studies estimated a global prevalence of 12.7% — 18% for girls and 7.6% for boys. The rates of self-disclosed abuse for specific continents were as follows:\n\nA 2009 meta-analysis of 65 studies from 22 countries found a global prevalence of 19.7% for females and 7.9% for males. In that analysis, Africa had the highest prevalence rate of child sexual abuse (34.4%), primarily because of high rates in South Africa; Europe showed the lowest prevalence rate (9.2%); and America and Asia had prevalence rates between 10.1% and 23.9%.\n\nA ten-country school-based study in southern Africa in 2007 found 19.6% of female students and 21.1% of male students aged 11–16 years reported they had experienced forced or coerced sex. Rates among 16-year-olds were\n28.8% in females and 25.4% in males. Comparing the same schools in eight countries between 2003 and 2007, age-standardised on the 2007 Botswana male sample, there was no significant decrease between 2003 and 2007 among females in any country and inconsistent changes among males.\n\nThe prevalence of child sexual abuse in Africa is compounded by the virgin cleansing myth that sexual intercourse with a virgin will cure a man of HIV or AIDS. The myth is prevalent in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Nigeria and is being blamed for the high rate of sexual abuse against young children.\n\nChild rape is on the rise in the war ravaged eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. Aid workers blame combatants on all sides, who operate with much impunity, for a culture of sexual violence. South Africa has some of the highest incidences of child rape (including the rape of babies) in the world (also see sexual violence in South Africa). A survey by CIET found around 11% of boys and 4% of girls admitted to forcing someone else to have sex with them. In a related survey conducted among 1,500 schoolchildren, a quarter of all the boys interviewed said that \"jackrolling\", a term for gang rape, was fun. More than 67,000 cases of rape and sexual assaults against children were reported in 2000 in South Africa, compared to 37,500 in 1998. Child welfare groups believe that the number of unreported incidents could be up to 10 times that number. The largest increase in attacks was against children under seven. The virgin cleansing myth is especially common in South Africa, which has the highest number of HIV-positive citizens in the world. Eastern Cape social worker Edith Kriel notes that \"child abusers are often relatives of their victims – even their fathers and providers.\"\n\nA number of high-profile baby rapes appeared since 2001 (including the fact that they required extensive reconstructive surgery to rebuild urinary, genital, abdominal, or tracheal systems). In 2001, a 9-month-old was raped and likely lost consciousness as the pain was too much to bear. In February 2002, an 8-month-old infant was reportedly gang raped by four men. One has been charged. The infant has required extensive reconstructive surgery. The 8-month-old infant's injuries were so extensive, increased attention on prosecution has occurred.\n\nIn Bangladesh, child prostitutes are known to take the drug Oradexon, an over-the-counter steroid, usually used by farmers to fatten cattle, to make child prostitutes look larger and older. Charities say that 90% of prostitutes in the country’s legalized brothels use the drug. According to social activists, the steroid can cause diabetes, high blood pressure and is highly addictive.\n\nNineteen percent of the world's children live in India, which constitutes 42 percent of India's total population.\n\nIn 2007, the Ministry of Women and Child Development published the \"Study on Child Abuse: India 2007.\" It sampled 12447 children, 2324 young adults and 2449 stakeholders across 13 states. It looked at different forms of child abuse: physical abuse, sexual abuse and emotional abuse and girl child neglect in five evidence groups, namely, children in a family environment, children in school, children at work, children on the street and children in institutions. The study's main findings included: 53.22% of children reported having faced sexual abuse. Among them, 52.94% were boys and 47.06% girls. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar and Delhi reported the highest percentage of sexual abuse among both boys and girls, as well as the highest incidence of sexual assaults. 21.90% of child respondents faced severe forms of sexual abuse, 5.69% had been sexually assaulted and 50.76% reported other forms of sexual abuse. Children on the street, at work and in institutional care reported the highest incidence of sexual assault. The study also reported that 50% of abusers are known to the child or are in a position of trust and responsibility and most children had not reported the matter to anyone. Despite years of lack of any specific child sexual abuse laws in India, which treated them separately from adults in case of sexual offense, the 'Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Bill, 2011' was passed the Indian parliament on May 22, 2012, which came into force from 14 November 2012.\n\nIn one survey, 2.5% of Taiwanese adolescents report having experienced childhood sexual abuse. UK Ambassador Craig Murray has written that the government of Uzbekistan, under president Islam Karimov, used child rape to force false confessions from prisoners.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, nearly half of reported rape victims in Papua New Guinea are under 15 years of age and 13% are under 7 years of age while a report by ChildFund Australia citing former Parliamentarian Dame Carol Kidu stated 50% of those seeking medical help after rape are under 16, 25% are under 10 and 10% are under 8.\n\nAdditionally, a study found that men with a history of victimization, especially having been raped or otherwise sexually coerced themselves, were more likely than otherwise to have participated in both single perpetrator and multiple perpetrator non-partner rape. 57·5% (587/1022) of men who raped a non-partner committed their first rape as teenagers.\n\nChild sexual abuse occurs frequently in Western society, although the rate of prevalence can be difficult to determine. Research in North America has concluded that approximately 15% to 25% of women and 5% to 15% of men were sexually abused when they were children. In the UK, a 2010 study estimated prevalence at about 5% for boys and 18% for girls (not dissimilar to a 1985 study that estimated about 8% for boys and 12% for girls). More than 23,000 incidents were recorded by the UK police between 2009 and 2010. Girls were six times more likely to be assaulted than boys with 86% of attacks taking place against them. Barnardo's charity estimates that two thirds of victims in the United Kingdom are girls and 1 third boys. Barnardo's is concerned that boy victims may be overlooked. A firm of solicitors that acts in many cases of child abuse has published a list of over twenty Children's Homes and group actions that they have an interest in or for which they are lead solicitors.\n\nThe estimates for the United States vary widely. A literature review of 23 studies found rates of 3% to 37% for males and 8% to 71% for females, which produced an average of 17% for boys and 28% for girls, while a statistical analysis based on 16 cross-sectional studies estimated the rate to be 7.2% for males and 14.5% for females. The US Department of Health and Human Services reported 83,600 substantiated reports of sexually abused children in 2005, while state-level child protective services reported 63,527 sexual abuse incidents in 2010. Including incidents which were not reported would make the total number even larger. According to Emily M. Douglas and David Finkelhor, \"Several national studies have found that black and white children experienced near-equal levels of sexual abuse. Other studies, however, have found that both blacks and Latinos have an increased risk for sexual victimization\".\n\nSurveys have shown that one fifth to one third of all women reported some sort of childhood sexual experience with a male adult.\nA 1992 survey studying father-daughter incest in Finland reported that of the 9,000 15-year-old high school girls who filled out the questionnaires, of the girls living with their biological fathers, 0.2% reported father-daughter incest experiences; of the girls living with a stepfather, 3.7% reported sexual experiences with him. The reported counts included only father-daughter incest and did not include prevalence of other forms of child sexual abuse. The survey summary stated, \"the feelings of the girls about their incestual experiences are overwhelmingly negative.\" Others argue that prevalence rates are much higher, and that many cases of child abuse are never reported. One study found that professionals failed to report approximately 40% of the child sexual abuse cases they encountered. A study by Lawson & Chaffin indicated that many children who were sexually abused were \"identified solely by a physical complaint that was later diagnosed as a venereal disease...Only 43% of the children who were diagnosed with venereal disease made a verbal disclosure of sexual abuse during the initial interview.\" It has been found in the epidemiological literature on CSA that there is no identifiable demographic or family characteristic of a child that can be used to bar the prospect that a child has been sexually abused.\n\nIn US schools, according to the United States Department of Education, \"nearly 9.6% of students are targets of educator sexual misconduct sometime during their school career.\" In studies of student sex abuse by male and female educators, male students were reported as targets in ranges from 23% to 44%. In U.S. school settings same-sex (female and male) sexual misconduct against students by educators \"ranges from 18 to 28% of reported cases, depending on the study\"\n\nSignificant underreporting of sexual abuse of boys by both women and men is believed to occur due to sex stereotyping, social denial, the minimization of male victimization, and the relative lack of research on sexual abuse of boys. Sexual victimization of boys by their mothers or other female relatives is especially rarely researched or reported. Sexual abuse of girls by their mothers, and other related and/or unrelated adult females is beginning to be researched and reported despite the highly taboo nature of female–female child sex abuse. In studies where students are asked about sex offenses, they report higher levels of female sex offenders than found in adult reports. This underreporting has been attributed to cultural denial of female-perpetrated child sex abuse, because \"males have been socialized to believe they should be flattered or appreciative of sexual interest from a female.\" Journalist Cathy Young writes that under-reporting is contributed to by the difficulty of people, including jurors, in seeing a male as a \"true victim\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom reported child sex abuse is increasing though this may be due to greater willingness to report. Police need more resources to deal with it. Also parents and schools need to give children and adolescents regular advice about how to spot abuse and about the need to report abuse. Software providers are urged to do more to police their environment and make it safe for children.\n\nChild sexual abuse is outlawed nearly everywhere in the world, generally with severe criminal penalties, including in some jurisdictions, life imprisonment or capital punishment. An adult's sexual intercourse with someone below the legal age of consent is defined as statutory rape, based on the principle that a child is not capable of consent and that any apparent consent by a child is not considered to be legal consent.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) is an international treaty that legally obliges states to protect children's rights. Articles 34 and 35 of the CRC require states to protect children from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. This includes outlawing the coercion of a child to perform sexual activity, the prostitution of children, and the exploitation of children in creating pornography. States are also required to prevent the abduction, sale, or trafficking of children. As of November 2008, 193 countries are bound by the CRC, including every member of the United Nations except the United States and South Sudan.\n\nThe Council of Europe has adopted the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse in order to prohibit child sexual abuse that occurs within home or family.\n\nIn the European Union, child sexual abuse is subject to a directive. This directive deals with several forms of sexual abuse of children, especially commercial sexual exploitation of children.\n\nChild sexual abuse has gained public attention in the past few decades and has become one of the most high-profile crimes. While sexual use of children by adults has been present throughout history, public interest in prevention has tended to fluctuate. Initially, concern centered around children under the age of ten, but over time, advocates have attracted attention toward the sexual abuse of children between the ages of 11 to 17. Up until the 1930s, the psychological impact of sexual abuse was not emphasized, instead emphasis was placed on the physical harm or the child's reputation. Widespread public awareness of children's sexual abuse did not occur until the 1970s in the West.\n\nThe first published work dedicated specifically to child sexual abuse appeared in France in 1857: \"Medical-Legal Studies of Sexual Assault\" \"(Etude Médico-Légale sur les Attentats aux Mœurs)\", by Auguste Ambroise Tardieu, the noted French pathologist and pioneer of forensic medicine.\n\nChild sexual abuse became a public issue in the 1970s and 1980s. Prior to this point in time, sexual abuse remained rather secretive and socially unspeakable. Studies on child molestation were nonexistent until the 1920s and the first national estimate of the number of child sexual abuse cases was published in 1948. By 1968 44 out of 50 U.S. states had enacted mandatory laws that required physicians to report cases of suspicious child abuse. Legal action began to become more prevalent in the 1970s with the enactment of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act in 1974 in conjunction with the creation of the National Center for Child Abuse and Neglect. Since the creation of the Child Abuse and Treatment Act, reported child abuse cases have increased dramatically. Finally, the National Abuse Coalition was created in 1979 to create pressure in congress to create more sexual abuse laws.\n\nSecond wave feminism brought greater awareness of child sexual abuse and violence against women, and made them public, political issues. Judith Lewis Herman, Harvard professor of psychiatry, wrote the first book ever on father-daughter incest when she discovered during her medical residency that a large number of the women she was seeing had been victims of father-daughter incest. Herman notes that her approach to her clinical experience grew out of her involvement in the civil rights movement. Her second book \"Trauma and Recovery\" coined the term complex post-traumatic stress disorder and included child sexual abuse as a cause.\n\nIn 1986, Congress passed the Child Abuse Victims' Rights Act, giving children a civil claim in sexual abuse cases. The number of laws created in the 1980s and 1990s began to create greater prosecution and detection of child sexual abusers. During the 1970s a large transition began in the legislature related to child sexual abuse. Megan's Law which was enacted in 1996 gives the public access to knowledge of sex offenders nationwide.\n\nAnne Hastings described these changes in attitudes towards child sexual abuse as \"the beginning of one of history's largest social revolutions.\"\n\nAccording to John Jay College of Criminal Justice professor B.J. Cling,\n\n\"By the early 21st century, the issue of child sexual abuse has become a legitimate focus of professional attention, while increasingly separated from second wave feminism...As child sexual abuse becomes absorbed into the larger field of interpersonal trauma studies, child sexual abuse studies and intervention strategies have become degendered and largely unaware of their political origins in modern feminism and other vibrant political movements of the 1970s. One may hope that unlike in the past, this rediscovery of child sexual abuse that began in the 70s will not again be followed by collective amnesia. The institutionalization of child maltreatment interventions in federally funded centers, national and international societies, and a host of research studies (in which the United States continues to lead the world) offers grounds for cautious optimism. Nevertheless, as Judith Herman argues cogently, 'The systematic study of psychological trauma...depends on the support of a political movement.'\" \n\nIn the United States growing awareness of child sexual abuse has sparked an increasing number of civil lawsuits for monetary damages stemming from such incidents. Increased awareness of child sexual abuse has encouraged more victims to come forward, whereas in the past victims often kept their abuse secret. Some states have enacted specific laws lengthening the applicable statutes of limitations so as to allow victims of child sexual abuse to file suit sometimes years after they have reached the age of majority. Such lawsuits can be brought where a person or entity, such as a school, church or youth organization, or daycare was charged with supervising the child but failed to do so with child sexual abuse resulting, making the individual or institution liable. In the Catholic sex abuse cases the various Roman Catholic Diocese in the United States have paid out approximately $1 billion settling hundreds of such lawsuits since the early 1990s. There have also been lawsuits involving the American Religious Right. Crimes have allegedly gone unreported and victims were pressured into silence.\nAs lawsuits can involve demanding procedures there is a concern that children or adults who file suit will be re-victimized by defendants through the legal process, much as rape victims can be re-victimized by the accused in criminal rape trials. The child sexual abuse plaintiff's attorney Thomas A. Cifarelli has written that children involved in the legal system, particularly victims of sexual abuse and molestation, should be afforded certain procedural safeguards to protect them from harassment during the legal process.\n\nIn June 2008 in Zambia the issue of teacher-student sexual abuse and sexual assault was brought to the attention of the High Court of Zambia where a landmark case decision, with presiding Judge Philip Musonda, awarded $45million Zambian kwacha ($13,000 USD) to the plaintiff, a 13-year-old girl for sexual abuse and rape by her school teacher. This claim was brought against her teacher as a \"person of authority\" who, as Judge Musonda stated, \"had a moral superiority (responsibility) over his students\" at the time.\n\nA 2000 World Health Organization – Geneva report, “World Report on Violence and Health (Chap 6 – Sexual Violence)” states, “Action in schools is vital for reducing sexual and other forms of violence. In many countries a sexual relation between a teacher and a pupil is not a serious disciplinary offence and policies on sexual harassment in schools either do not exist or are not implemented. In recent years, though, some countries have introduced laws prohibiting sexual relations between teachers and pupils. Such measures are important in helping eradicate sexual harassment in schools. At the same time, a wider range of actions is also needed, including changes to teacher training and recruitment and reforms of curricula, so as to transform gender relations in schools.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17046772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17046772", "title": "Fictional portrayals of psychopaths", "text": "Fictional portrayals of psychopaths\n\nFictional portrayals of psychopaths, or sociopaths, are some of the most notorious in film and literature but may only vaguely or partly relate to the concept of psychopathy, which is itself used with varying definitions by mental health professionals, criminologists and others. The character may be identified as a diagnosed/assessed psychopath or sociopath within the fictional work itself, or by its creator when discussing their intentions with the work, which might be distinguished from opinions of audiences or critics based only on a character appearing to show traits or behaviors associated with an undefined popular stereotype of psychopathy.\n\nSuch characters are often portrayed in an exaggerated fashion and typically in the role of a villain or antihero, where the general characteristics of a psychopath are useful to facilitate conflict and danger. Because the definitions and criteria in the history of psychopathy have varied over the years and continue to change even now, many characters in notable films may have been designed to fall under the category of a psychopath at the time of the film's production or release, but not necessarily in subsequent years. There are several stereotypical images of psychopathy in both lay and professional accounts which only partly overlap and can involve contradictory traits: the charming con artist, the deranged serial killer, the successful corporate psychopath, or the chronic low-level offender with juvenile delinquency. The public concept reflects some combination of fear of the mythical bogeyman, fascination with human evil, and sometimes perhaps envy of people who might appear to go through life unencumbered by the same levels of guilt, anguish or insecurity.\n\nIn the 19th century the diagnostic categories of monomania or moral insanity (the word 'moral' then meant either emotional or ethical) made their way into works of literature, covering numerous eccentricities, obsessions or breakdowns—and sometimes acts of apparently senseless criminality, occasionally violent. This period also saw the rise of crime fiction such as sensation novels, where often someone in a local community who appeared normal would turn out to be criminally insane, and detective novels, playing on increasing anxieties about the characters of people in the newly expanding and diversifying industrial cities. The term 'psychopath' came into use in the late 19th century (as did the term it would often be confused with, psychotic), and also spanned a very wide range of conditions (etymologically and originally equivalent to 'mentally ill'). Nevertheless, an early rise to prominence followed its use in a Russian trial between 1883 and 1885 concerning a child murder, contributing to the release of a probable false confessor while the original suspect was found guilty. 'Psychopaths' began to appear in vaudevilles, ditties (songs) and press articles. The psychopathy defense was reported internationally as having enabled a remorseless female child killer to go free, a usage still quoted in dictionaries today.\n\n'Degenerates' were also depicted in popular fiction of the 19th through to mid 20th century, sometimes in similar ways to the modern usages of the concept of psychopaths, sometimes being cited as a cause of psychopathy. The concept fell into disrepute due partly to its use by the Nazis to justify eradicating their opposition.\n\nThe meaning gradually narrowed, initially as 'psychopathic inferiors' covering all of what today might be called personality disorders and various other conditions, then intertwining with the terminology of the 'sociopath' (and eventually antisocial personality disorder), though psychopathy remained variously defined in both broad and narrow ways.\n\nEarly representations of psychopaths in film were often caricatured as sadistic, unpredictable, sexually depraved, and emotionally unstable (manic) characters with a compulsion to engage in random violence and destruction, usually with a series of bizarre mannerisms such as giggling, laughing, or facial tics. Up until the late 1950s, cinematic conventions usually relegated the psychopath to roles of genre villains such as gangsters, mad scientists, supervillains, and many types of generic criminals. Examples of this type are Pinkie Brown (Richard Attenborough) in \"Brighton Rock\", Tommy Udo (Richard Widmark) in \"Kiss of Death\", Cody Jarrett (James Cagney) in \"White Heat\", and Antonio 'Tony' Camonte (Paul Muni) in the 1932 version of \"Scarface\". Homosexuals were also referred to as psychopaths under the broad definition then in use; the American Psychiatric Association in the first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in 1952 would list it under 'sociopathic personality disturbance'.\n\nOne exceptional depiction in this period was the character of child murderer Hans Beckert (Peter Lorre) in the 1931 Fritz Lang film \"M\". Lorre portrays Beckert as an outwardly unremarkable man tormented by a compulsion to ritualistically murder children. A German film (allegedly based on the real life serial killer Peter Kürten), it was released in America in 1933 and has been seen as indicative of a turning point in American media depictions of psychopaths. Until the 1930s psychiatrists typically applied the diagnosis to unemployed males or 'hypersexual' women, but several psychiatric, cultural and economic trends, together with sex crime panics, converged to transform the popular psychopath into a violent, male, sexual deviant or criminal—a threat to innocence, gender roles and the social order.\n\nThe Ostap Bender character from novels The Twelve Chairs and The Little Golden Calf by Soviet authors Ilf and Petrov is also considered a portrait of a charming psychopath.\n\nLennie Small from Of Mice and Men, who is mentally retarded, has been described as also lacking a conscience or moral sense, a common definition of a psychopath. His inability to stay out of trouble is often attributed to this.\n\nOne of the earliest real life cases which had a pervasive influence on American movies was that of Ed Gein, arrested in 1957. A farmer who had resided with his mother until her death, he had then killed two women and dug up female bodies from the local cemetery, making various items out of their skin. Rumours spread that he was also a necrophiliac, cannibal or transvestite, though these appear to have been unsupported other than by brief affirmations from Gein to leading questions by interrogators. Gein was found mentally ill and legally insane before trial, deemed to have had schizophrenia (psychosis including delusions and hallucinations) for at least 12 years, though at least one media psychiatrist dubbed him instead a 'sexual psychopath'. Robert Bloch, a prolific pulp horror author, says his 1959 novel \"Psycho\" was based on the Gein murders and the idea of an apparently sane person in a local community committing heinous crimes, but not necessarily on Gein himself, despite numerous similarities. The villain, Norman Bates, is portrayed as an outwardly unremarkable man who murders a woman while under the control of an alternate personality that takes the form of his domineering mother, who he himself murdered. Both the novel and Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 film adaptation were influences on the popular media portrayal of psychopaths. Neither the book nor film elaborates on the term 'psycho', though it is commonly taken to refer to either psychotic or psychopath. At the end of the film, a psychiatrist describes Bates as having a split personality. Multiple personality disorder was at that time very popular (cf 1957 movie \"The Three Faces of Eve\") and is to this day commonly confused with schizophrenia. Bloch later wrote a script for the 1966 film \"The Psychopath\", the original working title for which was \"Schizo\".\n\nA different thread within fictional portrayals of psychopathy continued to focus on rebelliously antisocial characters. The title of the 1955 film \"Rebel Without a Cause\", starring James Dean, came from a 1944 book of the same name detailing the hypno-analysis of a diagnosed psychopath. In the book, psychiatrist Robert M. Lindner also discussed psychopaths in general as pointlessly selfish individuals who appear unable to accept society's rules. In Ken Kesey's 1962 novel \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\", Randle McMurphy, after being admitted to a mental institution, is repeatedly referred to by the authorities, other patients and himself as a possible or definite psychopath. He reads from his record: \"repeated outbreaks of passion that suggest the possible diagnosis of psychopath\", and adds that a doctor told him it means \"I fight and fuh-pardon me, ladies-means I am he put it overzealous in my sexual relations.\" The current doctor then reads out the note: \"Don't overlook the possibility that this man might be feigning psychosis\". In the script for the popular film adaptation in 1975, only the latter is retained and the term psychopath is never used. Ironically, the main authority figure in the hospital—the cold, sadistic Nurse Ratched—was later described as a psychopath under later understandings of the term.\n\nThe 1973 film \"Badlands\" involved two lead characters based loosely on Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate. While the male lead Kit (Martin Sheen) is sometimes described as a psychopath or sociopath, psychologist Robert D. Hare, a leading proponent of the assessment of psychopathy, has identified Holly (Sissy Spacek) as exemplifying his concept of a psychopath due to her poor emotional sense of the meaning of events and her attempted mask of normality. However, writer and director Terrence Malick has said he considered Kit's shallow, bitter insensitivity to be a result of suffering and neglect growing up in the Midwest, and 15-year-old Holly, though immature and mis-estimating her audience, to be a quite typical Southern girl wanting to help narrate and come off well but still give the hard facts, and not dwell on herself or on personal tragedies.\n\nThe increasing media focus of serial killers in the late 20th century, fueled by cases such as John Wayne Gacy (1978), Ted Bundy (1978) and Jeffrey Dahmer (1991), lent an additional momentum to the way psychopathy was both perceived and portrayed in film and literature, sometimes incorporating a hybrid of traditional psychopaths from early film and late-19th century literature with the high-functioning behaviors detected in some serial killers.\n\nThe psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter, most notably portrayed by Anthony Hopkins in the Academy Award-winning 1991 film \"The Silence of the Lambs\", is perhaps the most infamous fictional psychopath of the 20th century. Lecter is intelligent and sophisticated (whereas psychopathy is generally associated with lower than average verbal intelligence), and his disarming charisma and wit disguise his true nature as a serial killer. He spends most of the film in a cell, taunting Clarice Starling with clues to the identity of another serial killer, Buffalo Bill, in exchange for intimate details of Starling's troubled childhood. Lecter first appeared in Thomas Harris' 1981 novel \"Red Dragon\", in which he is characterized as not fitting any known psychological profile. In the film adaptation of \"The Silence of the Lambs\", he is referred to as a \"pure psychopath\". In the later novels \"Hannibal\" and \"Hannibal Rising\", Lecter's psychopathy is portrayed as the result of seeing his sister Mischa murdered and cannibalized during World War II. In 2013 Harris revealed that he originally based the Lecter character on Alfredo Ballí Trevino, a Mexican physician who had killed and dismembered his homosexual lover, in what was called a crime of passion over a financial dispute.\n\nThe novel \"American Psycho\" tells the story of Patrick Bateman, a yuppie serial killer working on Wall Street in the 1980s. It was made into a film in 2000. Author Bret Easton Ellis has told interviewers that the book is a satire on shallow consumerist lifestyles, but also that the writing of the violent scenes was based on fictional horror and FBI material on serial killers, along with how he imagined \"a psychotic who worked on Wall Street\" would describe such incidents. Some commentary, including in scientific journals, has suggested the Bateman character appears to be a psychopath. However, Bateman also exhibits signs of psychosis such as hallucinations, and as such appears to be an unreliable narrator; it is left ambiguous whether Bateman is actually a serial killer, or is merely hallucinating about committing murder. In Ellis' 1998 novel \"Glamorama\" which features models-turned-terrorists a character also remarks \"basically, everyone was a sociopath...and all the girls' hair was chignoned.\"\n\nIn the 1993 book \"Girl, Interrupted\" and its 1999 film adaptation, the character of Lisa (played by Angelina Jolie in the film) is a rebellious, antisocial young woman who is diagnosed as a sociopath. However, it is left ambiguous whether that diagnosis is accurate.\n\nThe 1996 film \"Primal Fear\" depicts a suspected murderer who appears to suffer from multiple personality disorder, who at the end reveals that he has been faking the disorder. In the original novel by William Diehl, the psychiatrist Molly Arrington and others repeatedly explain psychopathy and psychosis as if they are the same, inherently antisocial, condition.\n\n\"Harry Potter\" author J. K. Rowling has described Lord Voldemort, the series' main villain, as \"a raging psychopath, devoid of the normal human responses to other people's suffering, and there ARE people like that in the world\".\n\nNumerous characters in television shows are informally described as psychopaths by the actors who play the parts. Examples include Natalie Buxton in \"Bad Girls\", Sean Slater and Michael Moon in \"EastEnders\", and Dexter Morgan in the American show \"Dexter.\" \n\nDavid Platt from the British TV soap \"Coronation Street\", is also known for having a serious personality disorder. His character is famous for presenting several tendencies of a sociopathic personality including, manipulation, lying, and aggression. He has served time in prison and often blames his mother for his traumatic childhood, His character has matured over the years however, the mask tends to slip from time to time and he returns to his darker side, most recently when he helped hide a dead body with a terrifying, cold-hearted attitude.\n\nDr. Gregory House, the title character in the FOX medical-thriller \"House\" is referred to as a sociopath multiple times by several characters throughout the course of the show.\n\nSherlock Holmes, the lead character in the BBC series \"Sherlock\", is referred to as a psychopath multiple times throughout the course of the show; in response to these claims, Holmes describes himself as a \"high-functioning sociopath\". He has also been described as having Asperger syndrome.\n\nThe Dan Wells novel \"I Am Not a Serial Killer\" and its sequels, \"Mr. Monster\" and \"I Don't Want To Kill You\", are narrated by John Wayne Cleaver, a teenaged diagnosed sociopath who lives by a rigid code of behavior in order to avoid becoming a serial killer.\n\nOne Chicago academic has argued in a review of TV trends that the contemporary fantasy of sociopathy/psychopathy is of someone whose emotional disconnection from others in society, rather than being the hindrance that it can represent in real clinical cases, enables them to be an amazingly successful manipulator due to a breakdown in the social contract.\n\nContemporary advice on writing psychopathic/sociopathic characters suggests that lack of a conscience and lack of empathy are always the chief characteristics, along with an ability to fool others, while the type of selfish antisocial behavior, and any secondary characteristics, can vary.\n\nIn 2013, the video console game \"Grand Theft Auto V\" was released with numerous references to psychopaths and sociopaths, including reports from a fictional psychiatrist. One of the lead characters, Trevor, is described both psychopathic and psychotic; the voice actor who played the part says he based his performance on Tom Hardy's portrayal of Charles Bronson in the film \"Bronson\".\n\nJacob M. Appel's \"The Mask of Sanity\" depicts a high-functioning sociopath, Jeremy Balint, who gains fame as a cardiologist while killing strangers..\n\nThe character Villanelle in Killing Eve refers to herself as a psychopath.. Her character portrays many of the traits from both sociopath and psychopath with a lack of empathy in her methods of murdering her victims or showing any guilt or remorse after the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48497947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48497947", "title": "Fourth-wave feminism", "text": "Fourth-wave feminism\n\nFourth-wave feminism is an approach to feminism that began around 2012 and is associated with the belief that all humans are equal. It heavily focuses on intersectionality, pushing for greater empowerment of traditionally marginalized groups in society, including women and girls. Fourth-wave feminists advocate for greater representation of these groups in politics and business, and argues that we would have a more equitable society when we incorporate the perspectives of all citizens. Whereas earlier feminists fought for and earned women opportunities for liberation, individualism, and social mobility, the new wave furthers the agenda by calling for justice against assault and harassment, equal pay for equal work, and the freedom to make individual choices over own bodies. Fourth-wave feminists collaborate to publicly speak against abusers of power and to provide opportunities for girls and women to be properly recognized and compensated for who they are and what they offer. In addition to advocating for women's issues, feminists point out that boys and men should have greater opportunities to be engaged parents to their children, to express their emotions and feelings freely, and to present themselves and their individualities in the ways they wish.\n\nFourth-wave feminism is the resurgence of interest in feminism that began around 2012 and is associated with the use of social media. According to feminist scholar Prudence Chamberlain, the focus of the fourth wave is justice for women, particularly opposition to sexual harassment and violence against women. Its essence, she writes, is \"incredulity that certain attitudes can still exist\".\n\nFourth-wave feminism is \"defined by technology\", according to Kira Cochrane, and characterized particularly by the use of Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Tumblr, and blogs such as Feministing to challenge misogyny.\n\nIssues that fourth-wave feminists focus on include street and workplace harassment, campus sexual assault and rape culture. Several scandals have galvanized the movement, including the Delhi gang rape (2012), Jimmy Savile allegations (2012), Bill Cosby sexual assault cases (2014), Isla Vista killings (2014), trial of Jian Ghomeshi (2016), Harvey Weinstein allegations (2017) and subsequent Me Too movement and Weinstein effect, and the Westminster sexual scandals (2017).\n\nExamples of fourth-wave feminist campaigns include the Everyday Sexism Project, Ni una menos, No More Page 3, Stop Bild Sexism, \"Mattress Performance\", \"10 Hours of Walking in NYC as a Woman\", #YesAllWomen, Free the Nipple, One Billion Rising, the 2017 Women's March, the 2018 Women's March, the Me Too movement, and Time's Up. In December 2017, \"Time\" magazine chose several prominent female activists involved in the #MeToo movement, dubbed \"the silence breakers\", as Person of the Year.\n\nJournalist Pythia Peay argued for the existence of a fourth wave as early as 2005, one focusing on social justice and civil rights, and in 2011 Jennifer Baumgardner dated the start of the fourth wave to 2008. Twitter, the social network most popular with the 18–29 age group, was created in 2006, making feminism more accessible and giving rise to \"hashtag feminism\". Cochrane wrote in 2013 that many of the fourth-wave's leaders were teenagers or in their 20s.\n\nBy 2013 it was obvious that a new wave of feminist protests was taking place. When Wendy Davis staged her 13-hour filibuster in Texas in 2013 to prevent an abortion bill from passing, women showed their support by rallying around the Texas State Capitol, and those who couldn't be there physically used the #StandWithWendy. Similarly, women protested the often sexist questions directed at female celebrities by tweeting the hashtag #askhermore.\n\nCochrane describes the fourth wave as focusing on sexual harassment (including street harassment), workplace discrimination, body shaming, sexist imagery in the media, online misogyny, assault on public transport, and intersectionality, relying on social media for communication and online petitioning for organizing. Events and organizations included the Everyday Sexism Project, UK Feminista, Reclaim the Night, One Billion Rising, and \"a Lose the Lads' mags protest\".\n\nBooks associated with the new wave include \"Men Explain Things to Me\" (2014) by Rebecca Solnit (which gave rise to the term \"mansplaining\"); \"The Vagenda\" (2014) by Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett and Holly Baxter (based on their online feminist magazine, \"The Vagenda\", launched in 2012); \"Sex Object: A Memoir\" (2016) by Jessica Valenti; and \"Everyday Sexism\" (2016) by Laura Bates (based on Bates' Everyday Sexism Project). Cosslett's and Baxter's book aims to debunk the stereotypes of femininity promoted by the mainstream women's press. Bates, a British feminist writer, created the Everyday Sexism Project on 16 April 2012 as an online forum where women could post their experiences of everyday harassment.\n\nOne criticism of fourth-wave feminism is that it depends on technology. As Ragna Rök Jóns argued in \"Bluestockings Magazine\" in 2013, \"[t]he key problem that this '4th Wave' will face will be the disproportionate access to and ownership of digital media devices.\" The fourth wave is left with the \"inherent classism and ableism\" created by giving the biggest voice to those who can afford and use technology.\n\nIt is also argued that when people participate in Twitter activism, they may not feel the need to do anything else to help the effort. In an article for Newuniversity.org, Alex Guardado argues that after contributing their say, people just \"continue on with their day, liking other posts or retweeting\". Some may think of themselves as activists while never bothering to attend a single rally or extend their message beyond their Twitter fan base.\n\nJennifer Simpkins of \"The Huffington Post\" argued in 2014 that fourth-wave feminism had created a hostile, \"Mean Girls\"–like atmosphere, in which women are more likely to tear each other down. \"I've actually never once been belittled and attacked by a man for believing in the cause of feminism,\" she states, \"but women are just about lining up to take a whack at the shoddy piñata of my personal tastes and opinions.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40951072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40951072", "title": "Gabriel Garza Hoth", "text": "Gabriel Garza Hoth\n\nGabriel Arturo Garza Hoth (born Mexico, ?) also known as \"The Black Widower\", was a Mexican serial killer active between 1991 and 1998 in Mexico City. He collected life insurance payments on his wife and lovers, gaining a total of 500,000 dollars.\n\nHis first victim was his first wife, named Soledad Valdez, who had a heart attack and died in 1991, but the doctors believed that maybe she had been poisoned. His second victim was his girlfriend named Marcela Palacios, who died in 1992 in a \"violent assault\". The final victim was Ana Gloria Gomezpalacio who died in another \"assault\". The coincidences were alerted to the police, but Garza escaped to Spain. He was captured in 1998 and extradited to Mexico, where he was condemned to life in prison.\n"}
{"id": "11973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11973", "title": "Generation X", "text": "Generation X\n\nGeneration X or Gen X is the demographic cohort following the baby boomers and preceding the Millennials. There are no precise dates for when Generation X starts or ends. Demographers and researchers typically use birth years ranging from the early-to-mid 1960s to the early 1980s.\n\nMembers of Generation X were children during a time of shifting societal values and as children were sometimes called the \"latchkey generation\", due to reduced adult supervision as children compared to previous generations, a result of increasing divorce rates and increased maternal participation in the workforce, prior to widespread availability of childcare options outside the home. As adolescents and young adults, they were dubbed the \"MTV Generation\" (a reference to the music video channel of the same name). In the 1990s they were sometimes characterized as slackers, cynical and disaffected. Some of the cultural influences on Gen X youth were the musical genres of grunge and hip hop music, and indie films. In midlife, research describes them as active, happy, and achieving a work–life balance. The cohort has been credited with entrepreneurial tendencies.\n\nThe term \"Generation X\" has been used at various times throughout history to describe alienated youth. In the 1950s, Hungarian photographer Robert Capa used Generation X as the title for a photo-essay about young men and women growing up immediately following World War II. In 1976, English musician Billy Idol used the moniker as the name for a punk rock band, based on the title of a 1965 book on popular youth culture by two British journalists, Jane Deverson and Charles Hamblett.\n\nThe term acquired its modern definition after the release of \"\", a 1991 novel written by Canadian author Douglas Coupland. Demographer Neil Howe noted the delay in naming this demographic cohort saying, \"Over 30 years after their birthday, they didn't have a name. I think that's germane.\" Previously, the cohort had been referred to as Post-Boomers, Baby Busters, New Lost Generation, latchkey kids, MTV Generation, and the 13th Generation (the 13th generation since American independence).\n\nDemographer William Strauss observed that Coupland applied the term to older members of the cohort born between 1961 and 1964, who were sometimes told by demographers that they were baby boomers, but who did not feel like boomers. Strauss also noted that around the time Coupland's 1991 novel was published the symbol \"X\" was prominent in popular culture, as the film \"Malcolm X\" was released in 1992, and that the name \"Generation X\" ended up sticking. The \"X\" refers to an unknown variable or to a desire not to be defined.\n\nGeneration X is the demographic cohort following the post–World War II baby boom, representing a generational change from the baby boomers, but there is debate over what this means because the end-date of the baby-boomer generation is disputed. Research from MetLife, examining the boomers, split their cohort into \"older boomers\", which they defined as born between 1946 and 1955, and \"younger boomers\", which they defined as born between 1956 and 1964. They found much of the cultural identity of the baby-boomer generation is associated with the \"older boomers\", while half of the \"younger boomers\" were averse to being associated with the baby-boomer cohort and a third of those born between 1956 and 1964 actively identified as members of Generation X.\n\nDemographers William Strauss and Neil Howe rejected the frequently used 1964 end-date of the baby-boomer cohort (which results in a 1965 start-year for Generation X), saying that a majority of those born between 1961 and 1964 do not self-identify as boomers, and that they are culturally distinct from boomers in terms of shared historical experiences. Howe says that while many demographers use 1965 as a start date for Generation X, this is a statement about fertility in the population (birth-rates which began declining in 1957, declined more sharply following 1964) and fails to take into consideration the shared history and cultural identity of the individuals. Strauss and Howe define Generation X as those born between 1961 and 1981.\n\nMany researchers and demographers continue to use dates which correspond to the strict fertility-patterns in the population, which results in a Generation X starting-date of 1965, such as Pew Research Center which uses a range of 1965–1980, MetLife which uses 1965–1976, Australia's McCrindle Research Center which uses 1965–1979, and Gallup which also uses 1965–1979.\n\nOthers use dates similar to Strauss and Howe's such as the National Science Foundation's \"Generation X Report\", a quarterly research report from \"The Longitudinal Study of American Youth\", which defines Generation X as those born between 1961 and 1981. \"Generation X\", a six-part 2016 documentary series produced by National Geographic also uses a 1961–1981 birth year range. PricewaterhouseCoopers, a multinational professional services network headquartered in London, describes Generation X employees as those born from the early 1960s to the early 1980s.\n\nAuthor Jeff Gordinier, in his 2008 book \"X Saves the World\", defines Generation X as those born roughly between 1961 and 1977 but possibly as late as 1980. Canadian author and professor David Foot divides the post-boomer generation into two groups: Generation X, born between 1960 and 1966; and the \"Bust Generation\", born between 1967 and 1979, In his book \"Boom Bust & Echo: How to Profit from the Coming Demographic Shift\". On the American television program \"Survivor\", for their 33rd season, subtitled \"\", the \"Gen X tribe\" consisted of individuals born between 1963 and 1982.\n\nOther demographers and researchers use a wide range of dates to describe Generation X, with the beginning birth-year ranging from as early as 1960 to as late as 1965, and with the final birth year ranging from as early as 1976 to as late as 1984. Due in part to the frequent birth-year overlap and resulting incongruence existing between attempts to define Generation X and Millennials, a number of individuals born in the late 1970s or early 1980s see themselves as being on the cusp \"between\" the two generations. Names given to those born on the Generation X/Millennial cusp years include Xennials, The Lucky Ones, Generation Catalano, and the Oregon Trail Generation.\n\nA 2010 Census report counted approximately 84 million people living in the U.S. who are defined by birth years ranging from the early 1960s to the early 80s. In a 2012 article for the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, George Masnick wrote that the \"Census counted 82.1 million\" Gen Xers in the U.S. The Harvard Center uses 1965 to 1984 to define Gen X so that Boomers, Xers, and Millennials \"cover equal 20-year age spans\". Masnick concluded that immigration filled in any birth year deficits during low fertility years of the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nJon Miller at the Longitudinal Study of American Youth at the University of Michigan wrote that \"Generation X refers to adults born between 1961 and 1981\" and it \"includes 84 million people\".\n\nIn their 1991 book \"Generations\" authors and demographers Neil Howe and William Strauss, used 1961 to 1981 for Gen X birth years. At the time it was published they wrote that there are approximately 88.5 million U.S. Gen Xers.\n\nThe birth control pill, introduced in the early 1960s, was one contributing factor of declining birth rates seen in the late 1960s and 70s. However, increased immigration partially offset declining birth rates and contributed to making Generation X an ethnically and culturally diverse demographic cohort.\n\nDemographers William Strauss and Neil Howe, who authored several books on generations, including the 1993 book specifically on Generation X \"13th Gen: Abort, Retry, Ignore, Fail?\", reported that Gen Xers were children at a time when society was less focused on children and more focused on adults. Gen Xers were children during a time of increasing divorce rates, with divorce rates doubling in the mid-1960s, before peaking in 1980. Strauss and Howe described a cultural shift where the long-held societal value of staying together for the sake of the children was replaced with a societal value of parental and individual self-actualization. Strauss wrote that society \"moved from what Leslie Fiedler called a 1950s-era 'cult of the child' to what Landon Jones called a 1970s-era 'cult of the adult'.\" \"The Generation Map\", a report from Australia's McCrindle Research Center writes of Gen X children: \"their Boomer parents were the most divorced generation in Australian history\".\n\nThe Gen X childhood coincided with the sexual revolution, which Susan Gregory Thomas described in her book \"In Spite of Everything\" as confusing and frightening for children in cases where a parent would bring new sexual partners into their home. Thomas also discussed how divorce was different during the Gen X childhood, with the child having a limited or severed relationship with one parent following divorce, often the father, due to differing societal and legal expectations. In the 1970s, only 9 U.S states allowed for joint custody of children, which has since been adopted by all 50 states following a push for joint custody during the mid-1980s.\n\nThe time period of the Gen X childhood saw an increase in latchkey children, leading to the terminology of the \"latchkey generation\" for Generation X. These latchkey children lacked adult supervision in the hours between the end of the school day and when a parent returned home from work in the evening, and for longer periods of time during the summer. Latchkey children became common among all socioeconomic demographics, but were particularly common among middle and upper class children. The higher the educational attainment of the parents, the higher the odds the children of this time would be latchkey children, due to increased maternal participation in the workforce at a time before childcare options outside the home were widely available. McCrindle Research Center described the cohort as \"the first to grow up without a large adult presence, with both parents working\", stating this led to Gen Xers being more peer-oriented than previous generations.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Economic and Social Research Council described Generation X as \"Thatcher's children\" because the cohort grew up while Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister from 1979 to 1990, \"a time of social flux and transformation\".\nIn South Africa, Gen Xers spent their formative years of the 1980s during the \"hyper-politicized environment of the final years of apartheid\". In the US, Generation X was the first cohort to grow up post-integration. They were described in a marketing report by \"Specialty Retail\" as the kids who \"lived the civil rights movement.\" They were among the first children to be bused to attain integration in the public school system. In the 1990s, Strauss reported Gen Xers were \"by any measure the least racist of today's generations\". In the US, Title IX, which passed in 1972, provided increased athletic opportunities to Gen X girls in the public school setting. In Russia, Generation Xers are referred to as \"the last Soviet children\", as the last children to come of age prior to the downfall of communism in their nation and prior to the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nPolitically, in the United States, the Gen X childhood coincided with a time when government funding tended to be diverted away from programs for children and often instead directed toward the elderly population, with cuts to Medicaid and programs for children and young families, and protection and expansion of Medicare and Social Security for the elderly population. One in five American children grew up in poverty during this time. These programs for the elderly were not tied to economic need. Congressman David Durenberger criticized this political situation, stating that while programs for poor children and for young families were cut, the government provided \"free health care to elderly millionaires\".\n\nGen Xers came of age or were children during the crack epidemic, which disproportionately impacted urban areas and also the African-American community in the US. Drug turf battles increased violent crime, and crack addiction impacted communities and families. Between 1984 and 1989, the homicide rate for black males aged 14 to 17 doubled in the US, and the homicide rate for black males aged 18 to 24 increased almost as much. The crack epidemic had a destabilizing impact on families with an increase in the number of children in foster care. Generation X was the first cohort to come of age with MTV and are sometimes called the MTV Generation. They experienced the emergence of punk rock, music videos, grunge, alternative rock and hip hop.\n\nThe emergence of AIDS coincided with Gen X's adolescence, with the disease first clinically observed in the United States in 1981. By 1985, an estimated one to two million Americans were HIV positive. As the virus spread, at a time before effective treatments were available, a public panic ensued. Sex education programs in schools were adapted to address the AIDS epidemic which taught Gen X students that sex could kill you. Gen Xers were the first children to have access to computers in their homes and schools. Generally, Gen Xers are the children of the Silent Generation and older Baby Boomers.\n\nIn the 1990s, media pundits and advertisers struggled to define the cohort, typically portraying them as \"unfocused twentysomethings\". A MetLife report noted: \"media would portray them as the \"Friends\" generation: rather self-involved and perhaps aimless...but fun.\" In France, Gen Xers were sometimes referred to as 'Génération Bof' because of their tendency to use the word 'bof', which translated into English means 'whatever\". Gen Xers were often portrayed as apathetic or as \"slackers\", a stereotype which was initially tied to Richard Linklater's comedic and essentially plotless 1991 film \"Slacker\". After the film was released, \"journalists and critics thought they put a finger on what was different about these young adults in that 'they were reluctant to grow up' and 'disdainful of earnest action'.\"\n\nStereotypes of Gen X young adults also included that they were \"bleak, cynical, and disaffected\". Such stereotypes prompted sociological research at Stanford University to study the accuracy of the characterization of Gen X young adults as cynical and disaffected. Using the national General Social Survey, the researchers compared answers to identical survey questions asked of 18–29-year-olds in three different time periods. Additionally, they compared how older adults answered the same survey questions over time. The surveys showed 18–29-year-old Gen Xers did exhibit higher levels of cynicism and disaffection than previous cohorts of 18–29-year-olds surveyed; however, they also found that cynicism and disaffection had increased among all age groups surveyed over time, not just young adults, making this a period effect, not a cohort effect. In other words, adults of all ages were more cynical and disaffected in the 1990s, not just Generation X.\n\nIn 1990, \"Time\" magazine published an article titled \"Living: Proceeding with Caution\", which described those in their 20s as aimless and unfocused; however, in 1997, they published an article titled \"Generation X Reconsidered\", which retracted the previously reported negative stereotypes and reported positive accomplishments, citing Gen Xers' tendency to found technology start-ups and small businesses as well as Gen Xers' ambition, which research showed was higher among Gen X young adults than older generations. As the 1990s and 2000s progressed, Gen X gained a reputation for entrepreneurship. In 1999, \"The New York Times\" dubbed them \"Generation 1099\", describing them as the \"once pitied but now envied group of self-employed workers whose income is reported to the Internal Revenue Service not on a W-2 form, but on Form 1099\". In 2002, \"Time\" magazine published an article titled \"Gen Xers Aren't Slackers After All\", reporting four out of five new businesses were the work of Gen Xers.\n\nIn 2001, sociologist Mike Males reported confidence and optimism common among the cohort saying \"surveys consistently find 80% to 90% of Gen Xers self-confident and optimistic.\" In August 2001, Males wrote \"these young Americans should finally get the recognition they deserve\", praising the cohort and stating that \"the permissively raised, universally deplored Generation X is the true 'great generation,' for it has braved a hostile social climate to reverse abysmal trends\", describing them as the hardest-working group since the World War II generation, which was dubbed by Tom Brokaw as \"The Greatest Generation\". He reported Gen Xers' entrepreneurial tendencies helped create the high-tech industry that fueled the 1990s economic recovery.\n\nIn the US, Gen Xers were described as the major heroes of the September 11 terrorist attacks by demographer William Strauss. The firefighters and police responding to the attacks were predominantly Generation Xers. Additionally, the leaders of the passenger revolt on United Airlines Flight 93 were predominantly Gen Xers. Demographer Neil Howe reported survey data showed Gen Xers were cohabitating and getting married in increasing numbers following the terrorists attacks, with Gen X survey respondents reporting they no longer wanted to live alone. In October 2001, \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" wrote of Generation Xers: \"now they could be facing the most formative events of their lives and their generation\". The \"Greensboro News & Record\" reported Gen Xers \"felt a surge of patriotism since terrorists struck\" reporting many were responding to the crisis of the terrorist attacks by giving blood, working for charities, donating to charities, and by joining the military to fight The War on Terror. \"The Jury Expert\", a publication of The American Society of Trial Consultants, reported: \"Gen X members responded to the terrorist attacks with bursts of patriotism and national fervor that surprised even themselves\".\n\nGuides regarding managing multiple generations in the workforce describe Gen Xers as: independent, resourceful, self-managing, adaptable, cynical, pragmatic, skeptical of authority, and as seeking a work life balance. In a 2007 article published in the Harvard Business Review, demographers Strauss & Howe wrote of Generation X; \"They are already the greatest entrepreneurial generation in U.S. history; their high-tech savvy and marketplace resilience have helped America prosper in the era of globalization.\" In the 2008 book, \"X Saves the World: How Generation X Got the Shaft but Can Still Keep Everything from Sucking\", author Jeff Gordinier describes Generation X as a \"dark horse demographic\" which \"doesn't seek the limelight\". Gordiner cited examples of Gen Xers' contributions to society such as: Google, Wikipedia, Amazon.com and YouTube, arguing if Boomers had created them, \"we'd never hear the end of it\". In the book, Gordinier contrasts Gen Xers to Baby Boomers, saying Boomers tend to trumpet their accomplishments more than Gen Xers do, creating what he describes as \"elaborate mythologies\" around their achievements. Gordiner cites Steve Jobs as an example, while Gen Xers, he argues, are more likely to \"just quietly do their thing\".\n\nIn 2011, survey analysis from the \"Longitudinal Study of American Youth\" found Gen Xers to be \"balanced, active, and happy\" in midlife (between ages of 30 and 50) and as achieving a work-life balance. The Longitudinal Study of Youth is an NIH-NIA funded study by the University of Michigan which has been studying Generation X since 1987. The study asked questions such as \"Thinking about all aspects of your life, how happy are you? If zero means that you are very unhappy and 10 means that you are very happy, please rate your happiness.\" LSA reported that \"mean level of happiness was 7.5 and the median (middle score) was 8. Only four percent of Generation X adults indicated a great deal of unhappiness (a score of three or lower). Twenty-nine percent of Generation X adults were very happy with a score of 9 or 10 on the scale.\"\n\nIn terms of advocating for their children in the educational setting, demographer Neil Howe describes Gen X parents as distinct from Baby Boomer parents. Howe argues that Gen Xers are not helicopter parents, which Howe describes as a parenting style of Boomer parents of Millennials. Howe described Gen Xers instead as \"stealth fighter parents\", due to the tendency of Gen X parents to let minor issues go and to not hover over their children in the educational setting, but to intervene forcefully and swiftly in the event of more serious issues. In 2012, the Corporation for National and Community Service ranked Gen X volunteer rates in the U.S. at \"29.4% per year\", the highest compared with other generations. The rankings were based on a three-year moving average between 2009 and 2011.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a 2016 study of over 2,500 office workers conducted by Workfront found that survey respondents of all ages selected those from Generation X as the hardest-working employees in today's workforce (chosen by 60%). Gen X was also ranked highest among fellow workers for having the strongest work ethic (chosen by 59.5%), being the most helpful (55.4%), the most skilled (54.5%), and the best troubleshooters/problem solvers (41.6%).\n\nIn 2016, a global consumer insights project from Viacom International Media Networks and Viacom, based on over 12,000 respondents across 21 countries, reported on Gen X's unconventional approach to sex, friendship and family, their desire for flexibility and fulfillment at work and the absence of midlife crisis for Gen Xers. The project also included a 20 min documentary titled \"Gen X Today\". Pew Research, a nonpartisan American think tank, describes Generation X as intermediary between baby boomers and Millennials on multiple factors such as attitudes on political or social issues, educational attainment, and social media use.\n\nGen Xers were the first cohort to come of age with MTV. They were the first generation to experience the emergence of music videos as teenagers and are sometimes called the MTV Generation. Gen Xers were responsible for the alternative rock movement of the 1990s and 2000s, including the grunge subgenre. Hip Hop and rap have also been described as defining music of the generation, including Tupac Shakur, N.W.A. and The Notorious B.I.G.\n\nAs Generation X began to enter adolescence a new generation of rock bands arose such as the Ramones, Johnny Thunders and the Heartbreakers, Richard Hell and the Voidoids in New York City, the Sex Pistols, the Clash, the Damned and, Buzzcocks in the UK, and the Saints in Brisbane— by late-1976 these acts were generally recognized as forming the vanguard of \"punk rock\". While at first the bands were not Gen Xers themselves, the fan base for the early bands was increasingly Gen X and it therefore made a significant imprint on the cohort. As 1977 approached and the first Gen Xers were solidly in their teens, punk rock became a major and highly controversial cultural phenomenon in the United Kingdom. It spawned a punk subculture expressing youthful rebellion characterized by distinctive styles of clothing and adornment (ranging from deliberately offensive T-shirts, leather jackets, studded or spiked bands and jewelry, as well as bondage and S&M clothes) and a variety of anti-authoritarian ideologies that have since been associated with the form. \nBy 1977 the influence of punk rock music and subculture became more pervasive, spreading throughout various countries worldwide. It generally took root in local scenes that tended to reject affiliation with the mainstream. In the late 1970s punk experienced its second wave in which acts that were not active during its formative years adopted the style, and Gen Xers were becoming the creators as well as the consumers. By the early 1980s, faster and more aggressive subgenres such as hardcore punk (e.g. Minor Threat), street punk (e.g. the Exploited, NOFX) and anarcho-punk (e.g. Subhumans) became the predominant modes of punk rock. Musicians identifying with or inspired by punk often later pursued other musical directions, resulting in a broad range of spinoffs, giving rise to genres such as post-punk, new wave and later indie pop, alternative rock, and noise rock. By the 1990s punk rock re-emerged in the mainstream, as punk rock and pop punk bands with Gen X members such as Green Day, Rancid, The Offspring, and Blink-182 brought the genre widespread popularity.\n\nA notable example of alternative rock is grunge music and the associated subculture that developed in the Pacific Northwest of the US. Grunge song lyrics have been called the \"...product of Generation X malaise\". Vulture commented: \"the best bands arose from the boredom of latchkey kids\". \"People made records entirely to please themselves because there was nobody else to please\" commented producer Jack Endino. Grunge lyrics are typically dark, nihilistic, angst-filled, anguished, and often addressing themes such as social alienation, despair and apathy. \"The Guardian\" wrote that grunge \"didn't recycle banal cliches but tackled weighty subjects\". Topics of grunge lyrics included homelessness, suicide, rape, broken homes, drug addiction, self-loathing, misogyny, domestic abuse and finding \"meaning in an indifferent universe.\" Grunge lyrics tended to be introspective and aimed to enable the listener to see into hidden personal issues and examine depravity in the world. Notable grunge bands include: Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Alice in Chains, Hole, Stone Temple Pilots and Soundgarden.\n\nThe mainstream hip hop music made in the late 1980s and early 1990s, typically by artists originating from the New York metropolitan area. was characterized by its diversity, quality, innovation and influence after the genre's emergence and establishment in the previous decade. There were various types of subject matter, while the music was experimental and the sampling eclectic. The artists most often associated with the period are LL Cool J, Run–D.M.C., Public Enemy, the Beastie Boys, KRS-One, Eric B. & Rakim, De La Soul, Big Daddy Kane, EPMD, A Tribe Called Quest, Slick Rick, Ultramagnetic MC's, and the Jungle Brothers. Releases by these acts co-existed in this period with, and were as commercially viable as, those of early gangsta rap artists such as Ice-T, Geto Boys and N.W.A, the sex raps of 2 Live Crew and Too Short, and party-oriented music by acts such as Kid 'n Play, The Fat Boys, DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince and MC Hammer.\n\nIn addition to lyrical self-glorification, hip hop was also used as a form of social protest. Lyrical content from the era often drew attention to a variety of social issues including afrocentric living, drug use, crime and violence, religion, culture, the state of the American economy, and the modern man's struggle. Conscious and political hip hop tracks of the time were a response to the effects of American capitalism and former President Reagan's conservative political economy. According to Rose Tricia, \"In rap, relationships between black cultural practice, social and economic conditions, technology, sexual and racial politics, and the institution policing of the popular terrain are complex and in constant motion. Even though hip hop was used as a mechanism for different social issues it was still very complex with issues within the movement itself. There was also often an emphasis on black nationalism. Hip hop artists often talked about urban poverty and the problems of alcohol, drugs, and gangs in their communities. Public Enemy's most influential song, \"Fight the Power,\" came out at this time; the song speaks up to the government, proclaiming that people in the ghetto have freedom of speech and rights like every other American. One line in the song, \"We got to pump the stuff to make us tough from the heart\" grabbed listeners' attention and gave them motivation to speak out for themselves.\n\nGen Xers were largely responsible for the \"indie film\" movement of the 1990s, both as young directors and in large part as the movie audiences fueling demand for such films. In cinema, directors Kevin Smith, Quentin Tarantino, Sofia Coppola, John Singleton, Spike Jonze, David Fincher, Steven Soderbergh, and Richard Linklater have been called Generation X filmmakers. Smith is most known for his View Askewniverse films, the flagship film being \"Clerks\", which is set in New Jersey circa 1994, and focuses on two convenience-store clerks in their twenties. Linklater's \"Slacker\" similarly explores young adult characters who were interested in philosophizing. While not a member of Gen X himself, director John Hughes has been recognized as having created a series of classic films with Gen X characters which \"an entire generation took ownership of,\" including \"The Breakfast Club\", \"Sixteen Candles\", \"Weird Science\" and \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\".\n\nStudies done by the Pew Charitable Trusts, the American Enterprise Institute, the Brookings Institution, the Heritage Foundation and the Urban Institute challenged the notion that each generation will be better off than the one that preceded it.\n\nA report titled \"Economic Mobility: Is the American Dream Alive and Well?\" focused on the income of males 30–39 in 2004 (those born April 1964March 1974). The study was released on May 25, 2007 and emphasized that this generation's men made less (by 12%) than their fathers had at that same age in 1974, thus reversing a historical trend. It concluded that per year increases in household income generated by fathers/sons have slowed (from an average of 0.9% to 0.3%), barely keeping pace with inflation. \"Family incomes have risen though (over the period 1947 to 2005) because more women have gone to work\", \"supporting the incomes of men, by adding a second earner to the family. And as with male income, the trend is downward\".\n\n\"Generation Flux\" is a neologism and psychographic designation coined by \"Fast Company\" for American employees who need to make several changes in career throughout their working lives because of the chaotic nature of the job market following the Financial crisis of 2007–08. Those in \"Generation Flux\" have birth years in the ranges of Gen X and Millennials.\n\nAccording to authors Michael Hais and Morley Winograd: Small businesses and the entrepreneurial spirit that Gen Xers embody have become one of the most popular institutions in America. There's been a recent shift in consumer behavior and Gen Xers will join the \"idealist generation\" in encouraging the celebration of individual effort and business risk-taking. As a result, Xers will spark a renaissance of entrepreneurship in economic life, even as overall confidence in economic institutions declines. Customers, and their needs and wants (including Millennials) will become the North Star for an entire new generation of entrepreneurs.\n\nA 2015 study by Sage Group reports Gen Xers \"dominate the playing field\" with respect to founding startups in the United States and Canada, with Gen Xers launching the majority (55%) of all new businesses in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325185", "title": "Hamar people", "text": "Hamar people\n\nThe Hamar (also spelled Hamer) are an Omotic community inhabiting southwestern Ethiopia. They live in Hamer woreda (or district), a fertile part of the Omo River valley, in the Debub Omo Zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region (SNNPR). They are largely pastoralists, so their culture places a high value on cattle.\n\nThe 2003 national census reported 46,532 people in this ethnic group, of whom 10000 were urban inhabitants. The vast majority (99.13%) live in the SNNPR.\n\nAccording to the Ethiopian national census of 1994, there were 42,838 Hamer language speakers, and 42,448 self-identified Hamer people, representing approximately 0.1% of the total Ethiopian population.\n\nThe Hamar are known for their unique custom of \"bull jumping,\" which initiates a boy into manhood. First, female relatives dance and invite whipping from men who have recently been initiated; this shows their support of the initiate, and their scars give them a say on who they marry.\n\nThe Assistant Administrator of Hamer Bena, Ato Imnet Gashab, has commented that only seven tribal members have ever completed secondary education.\n\n\"Mingi\", in the religion of the Hamar and related tribes, is the state of being impure or \"ritually polluted\". A person, often a child, who was considered \"mingi\" is killed by forced permanent separation from the tribe by being left alone in the jungle or by drowning in the river.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58567", "title": "History of Germans in Russia, Ukraine and the Soviet Union", "text": "History of Germans in Russia, Ukraine and the Soviet Union\n\nThe German minority in Russia, Ukraine and the Soviet Union was created from several sources and in several waves. The 1914 census put the number of Germans living in the Russian Empire at 2,416,290. In 1989, the German population of the Soviet Union was roughly 2 million. By 2002, the population fell by half to roughly one million. 597,212 Germans were enumerated in Russia (2002 Russian census), making Germans the fifth largest ethnic group in that country. There were 353,441 Germans in Kazakhstan and 21,472 in Kyrgyzstan (1999); while 33,300 Germans lived in Ukraine (2001 census).\n\nIn the Russian Empire, Germans were strongly represented among royalty, aristocracy, large land owners, military officers and the upper echelons of the imperial service, engineers, scientists, artists, physicians and the bourgeoisie in general. The Germans of Russia did not necessarily speak Russian; many spoke German, while French was often the language of the high aristocracy. However, depending on geography and other circumstances, many Russian-Germans spoke Russian as their first or second language. During the 19th century, many came to identify primarily as Russians, and particularly during and after the Napoleonic Wars, many Russian-Germans embraced Russian patriotism. Today's Russian Germans mostly speak Russian as they are in the gradual process of assimilation. As such, many may not necessarily be fluent in German. Consequently, Germany has recently strictly limited their immigration, and a decline in the number of Germans in the Russian Federation has moderated as they no longer emigrate to Germany and as Kazakh Germans move to Russia instead of Germany. As conditions for the Germans generally deteriorated in the late 19th century and early 20th century, many Germans migrated from Russia to the Americas and elsewhere, collectively known as Germans from Russia.\n\nThe earliest German settlement in Russia dates back to the reign of Vasili III, Grand Prince of Moscow from 1505 to 1533. A handful of German and Dutch craftsmen and traders were allowed to establish themselves in Moscow's German Quarter (\"Немецкая слобода\", or Nemetskaya \"sloboda\"), providing essential technical skills in the capital. Gradually, this policy extended to a few other major cities. In 1682, Moscow had about 200,000 citizens; 18,000 of them were \"Nemtsy\", which means either \"German\" or \"western foreigner\".\n\nThe international community located in the German Quarter greatly influenced Peter the Great (reigned 1682-1725), and his efforts to transform Russia into a more modern European state are believed to have derived in large part from his experiences among Russia's established Germans. By the late 17th-century, foreigners were no longer so rare in Russian cities, and Moscow's German Quarter had lost its ethnic character by the end of that century.\n\nThrough wars and the partitions of Poland, Prussia acquired an increasing amount of northern, western, and central Polish territory. The Vistula River flows south to north, to near Danzig (now Gdańsk). Germans and Dutch settled its valley starting from the Baltic Sea and moving further south with time. Eventually, Prussia acquired most of the Vistula's watershed, and the central portion of then-Poland became South Prussia. Its existence was brief - 1793 to 1806, but by its end many German settlers had established Protestant agricultural settlements within its earlier borders. From already-Prussian Silesia to the southwest some German Roman Catholics also entered the region. The 1935 \"Breyer Map\" shows the distribution of German settlements in what became central Poland.\n\nNapoleon's victories ended the short existence of South Prussia. The French Emperor incorporated it and other territories into the Duchy of Warsaw. After Napoleon's defeat in 1815, however, the Duchy was divided. The western Posen region again became part of Prussia, while what is now central Poland became the Russian client-state Congress Poland. Many Germans remained in this central region, maintaining their middle-German Prussian dialect, similar to the Silesian dialect, and their religions. With World Wars I and II, the eastern front hovered on their doorstep and conscription increased. The Vistula Germans' migrations from Congress Poland increased. Some became Polonized, however, and their descendants remain in Poland. After World War II, many of those who retained their German language and customs were forcibly expelled by the Russians and the Poles, with the loss of all their property.\n\nTsarina Catherine II was a German, born in Stettin in Pomerania, now Szczecin in Poland. She proclaimed open immigration for foreigners wishing to live in the Russian Empire on July 22, 1763, marking the beginning of a much larger presence for Germans in the Empire. German colonies in the lower Volga river area were founded almost immediately afterward. These early colonies were attacked during the Pugachev uprising, which was centred on the Volga area, but they survived the rebellion.\n\nGerman immigration was motivated in part by religious intolerance and warfare in central Europe as well as by frequently difficult economic conditions. Catherine II's declaration freed German immigrants from military service (imposed on native Russians) and from most taxes. It placed the new arrivals outside of Russia's feudal hierarchy and granted them considerable internal autonomy. Moving to Russia gave German immigrants political rights that they would not have possessed in their own lands. Religious minorities found these terms very agreeable, particularly Mennonites from the Vistula River valley. Their unwillingness to participate in military service, and their long tradition of dissent from mainstream Lutheranism and Calvinism, made life under the Prussians very difficult for them. Nearly all of the Prussian Mennonites emigrated to Russia over the following century, leaving no more than a handful in Prussia.\n\nOther German minority churches took advantage of Catherine II's offer as well, particularly Evangelical Christians like the Baptists. Although Catherine's declaration forbade them from proselytising among members of the Orthodox church, they could evangelize Russia's Muslim and other non-Christian minorities.\n\nGerman colonization was most intense in the Lower Volga, but other areas also saw an influx. The area around the Black Sea received many German immigrants, and the Mennonites favoured the lower Dniepr river area, around Ekaterinoslav (now Dnipro) and Aleksandrovsk (now Zaporizhia).\n\nIn 1803 Catherine II's grandson, Tsar Alexander I, reissued her proclamation. In the chaos of the Napoleonic wars, the response from Germans was enormous. Ultimately, the Tsar imposed minimum financial requirements on new immigrants, requiring them to either have 300 gulden in cash or special skills in order to come to Russia.\n\nThe abolition of serfdom in the Russian Empire in 1863 created a shortage of labour in agriculture and motivated new German immigration, particularly from increasingly crowded central European states, where there was no longer enough fertile land for full employment in agriculture.\n\nFurthermore, a sizable part of Russia's ethnic Germans migrated into Russia from its Polish possessions. The 18th-century partitions of Poland (1772–1795) dismantled the Polish-Lithuanian state, dividing it between Austria, Prussia and Russia. Many Germans already living in those parts of Poland transferred to Russia, dating back to medieval and later migrations. Many Germans in Congress Poland migrated further east into Russia between then and World War I, particularly in the aftermath of the Polish insurrection of 1830. The Polish insurrection in 1863 added a new wave of German emigration from Poland to those who had already moved east, and led to the founding of extensive German colonies in Volhynia. When Poland reclaimed its independence in 1918 after World War I, it ceased to be a source of German emigration to Russia, but by then many hundreds of thousands of Germans had already settled in enclaves across the Russian Empire.\n\nGermans settled in the Caucasus area from the beginning of the 19th century and in the 1850s expanded into the Crimea. In the 1890s new German colonies opened in the Altay mountain area in Russian Asia (see Mennonite settlements of Altai). German colonial areas continued to expand in Ukraine as late as the beginning of World War I.\n\nAccording to the first census of the Russian Empire in 1897, about 1.8 million respondents reported German as their mother tongue.\n\nThe Black Sea Germans - including the Bessarabian Germans and the Dobrujan Germans - settled the territories of the northern bank of the Black Sea in present-day Ukraine in the 18th and 19th centuries. Catherine the Great had gained this land for Russia through her two wars with the Ottoman Empire (1768–1774) and from the annexation of the Crimean Khanates (1783). The area of settlement was not settled as compactly as that of the Volga territory, rather it became home to a chain of colonies. The first German settlers arrived in 1787, first from West Prussia, then later from Western and Southwestern Germany, and from the Warsaw area. Also many Germans, beginning in 1803, immigrated from the northeastern area of Alsace west of the Rhine, and settled roughly 30 miles northeast of Odessa (city) in Ukraine, forming several enclaves that quickly multiplied with daughter colonies springing up nearby.\n\nFrom 1783 onwards a systematic settlement of Russians, Ukrainians, and Germans in the Crimean Peninsula (in what was then the Crimean Khanate) aimed to dilute the native population of the Crimean Tatars.\n\nIn 1939, two years before their deportation to Central Asia, around 60,000 of the 1.1 million inhabitants of Crimea were German.\n\nUnder perestroika in the late 1980s Germans gained the right to return to the peninsula.\n\nThe migration of Germans into Volhynia ( covering northwestern Ukraine from a short distance west of Kiev to the border with Poland) occurred under significantly different conditions than those going to other parts of Russia. By the end of the 19th century Volhynia had over 200,000 German settlers. Their migration began at the encouragement of local noblemen, often Polish landlords, who wanted to develop their significant land-holdings in the area. Probably 75% or more of them originated from Congress Poland, with the balance coming directly from other regions such as East and West Prussia, Pomerania, Posen, Württemberg, and Galicia among others. Although the noblemen themselves offered certain perks for the move, the Germans of Volhynia received none of the special tax and military service freedoms granted to the Germans in other areas.\n\nThe settlement started as a trickle shortly after 1800. A surge occurred after the first Polish rebellion of 1831 but by 1850, they were still only about 5000 in number. The largest migration came after the second Polish rebellion of 1863 when they began to flood into the area by the thousands until they reached their peak at about 200,000 in the year 1900. The vast majority of these Germans were of the Lutheran (in Europe they were referred to as Evangelicals) faith. Limited numbers of Mennonites from the lower Vistula River region settled in the south part of Volhynia, while Baptists and Moravian Brethren also arrived, mostly settling northwest of Zhitomir. Another major difference between the Germans here and in other parts of Russia is that the other Germans tended to settle in larger communities. The Germans in Volhynia were scattered about in over 1400 villages. Though the population peaked in 1900, many Germans had already begun leaving Volhynia in the late 1880s for North and South America.\n\nBetween 1911 and 1915 a small group of Volhynian German farmers (36 families - more than 200 people) chose instead to move to Eastern Siberia, making use of the resettlement subsidies of the Stolypin reform of 1906-1911. They settled in three villages (Pikhtinsk, Sredne-Pikhtinsk, and Dagnik) in what is today Zalarinsky District of Irkutsk Oblast, where they became known as the \"Bug Hollanders\". They apparently were not using German any more, but rather spoke Ukrainian and Polish, and used Lutheran Bibles that had been printed in East Prussia, in Polish, but in fraktur. Their descendants, still bearing German names, continue to live in the district into the 21st century.\n\nA German minority of about 100,000 people existed in the Caucasus region, in areas such as the North Caucasus, Georgia, and Azerbaijan. In 1941 Joseph Stalin ordered all inhabitants with a German father to be deported, mostly to Siberia or Kazakhstan.\n\nThe decline of the Russian German community started with the reforms of Alexander II. In 1871, he repealed the open-door immigration policy of his ancestors, effectively ending any new German immigration into the Empire. Although the German colonies continued to expand, they were driven by natural growth and by the immigration of Germans from Poland.\n\nThe Russian nationalism that took root under Alexander II served as a justification for eliminating in 1871 the bulk of the tax privileges enjoyed by Russian Germans, and after 1874 they were subjected to military service. Only after long negotiations, Mennonites, traditionally a pacifist denomination, were allowed to serve alternative service in the form of work in forestry and the medical corps. The resulting disaffection motivated many Russian Germans, especially members of traditionally dissenting churches, to migrate to the United States and Canada, while many Catholics chose Brazil and Argentina. They moved primarily to the American Great Plains and western Canada, especially North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Colorado; to Canada Manitoba and Saskatchewan, and Alberta; to Brazil, especially Paraná, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul; and to Argentina, especially South of Buenos Aires Province, Entre Ríos Province and La Pampa Province. North Dakota and South Dakota attracted primarily Odessa (Black Sea area) Germans from Russia while Nebraska and Kansas attracted mainly Volga Germans from Russia. The majority of Volhynia Germans chose Canada as their destination with significant numbers later migrating to the United States. Smaller settlement pockets also occurred in other regions such as Volga and Volhynian Germans in southwestern Michigan, Volhynian Germans in Wisconsin, and Congress Poland and Volhynian Germans in Connecticut.\n\nAfter 1881, Russian Germans were required to study Russian in school and lost all their remaining special privileges. Many Germans remained in Russia, particularly those who had done well as Russia began to industrialise in the late 19th century. Russian Germans were disproportionately represented among Russia's engineers, technical tradesmen, industrialists, financiers and large land owners.\n\nWorld War I was the first time Russia went to war against Germany since the Napoleonic era, and Russian Germans were quickly suspected of having enemy sympathies. The Germans living in the Volhynia area were deported to the German colonies in the lower Volga river in 1915 when Russia started losing the war. Many Russian Germans were exiled to Siberia by the Tsar's government as enemies of the state - generally without trial or evidence. In 1916, an order was issued to deport the Volga Germans to the east as well, but the Russian Revolution prevented this from being carried out.\n\nThe loyalties of Russian Germans during the revolution varied. While many supported the royalist forces and joined the White Army, others were committed to Alexander Kerensky's Provisional Government, to the Bolsheviks, and even to smaller forces like Nestor Makhno's. Russian Germans - including Mennonites and Evangelicals - fought on all sides in the Russian Revolution and Civil War. Although some Russian Germans were very wealthy, others were quite poor and sympathised strongly with their Slavic neighbours. Educated Russian Germans were just as likely to have leftist and revolutionary sympathies as the ethnically Russian intelligentsia.\nIn the chaos of the Russian Revolution and the civil war that followed it, many ethnic Germans were displaced within Russia or emigrated from Russia altogether. The chaos surrounding the Russian Civil War was devastating to many German communities, particularly to religious dissenters like the Mennonites. Many Mennonites hold the forces of Nestor Makhno in Ukraine particularly responsible for large-scale violence against their community.\n\nThis period was also one of regular food shortages, caused by famine and the lack of long distance transportation of food during the fighting. Coupled with the typhus epidemic and famine of the early 1920s, as many as a third of Russia's Germans may have perished. Russian German organisations in the Americas, particularly the Mennonite Central Committee, organised famine relief in Russia in the late 1920s. As the chaos faded and the Soviet Union's position became more secure, many Russian Germans simply took advantage of the end of the fighting to emigrate to the Americas. Emigration from the Soviet Union came to a halt in 1929 by Stalin's decree, leaving roughly one million Russian Germans within Soviet borders.\n\nThe Soviet Union seized the farms and businesses of Russian Germans, along with all other farms and businesses, when Stalin ended Vladimir Lenin's New Economic Policy in 1929 and began the forced collectivization of agriculture and liquidation of large land holdings.\nNonetheless, Soviet nationalities policy had, to some degree, restored the institutions of Russian Germans in some areas. In July 1924, the Volga German Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was founded, giving the Volga Germans some autonomous German language institutions. The Lutheran church, like nearly all religious affiliations in Russia, was ruthlessly suppressed under Stalin. But, for the 600,000-odd Germans living in the Volga German ASSR, German was the language of local officials for the first time since 1881.\n\nAs a result of the German invasion of the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941, Stalin decided to deport\nthe German Russians to internal exile and forced labor in Siberia and Central Asia. It is evident \nthat, at this point, the regime considered national minorities with ethnic ties to foreign states, \nsuch as Germans, potential fifth columnists. On August 12, 1941, the Central Committee of the \nCommunist Party decreed the expulsion of the Volga Germans, allegedly for treasonous activity, \nfrom their autonomous republic on the lower Volga. On September 7, 1941, the Volga German \nAutonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was abolished and about 438,000 Volga Germans were \ndeported. In subsequent months, an additional 400,000 ethnic Germans were deported to Siberia\nfrom their other traditional settlements such as Ukraine and the Crimea.\n\nThe Soviets were not successful in expelling all German settlers living in the Western and \nSouthern Ukraine, however, due to the rapid advance of the Wehrmacht (German Army). The \nsecret police, the NKVD, was able to deport only 35% of the ethnic Germans from Ukraine. \nThus in 1943, the Nazi German census registered 313,000 ethnic Germans living in the occupied \nterritories of the Soviet Union. With the Soviet re-conquest, the Wehrmacht evacuated about \n300,000 German Russians and brought them back to the Reich. Because of the provisions of the \nYalta Agreement, all former Soviet citizens living in Germany at war’s end had to be repatriated, \nmost by force. More than 200,000 German Russians were deported, against their will, by the \nAllies and sent to the Gulag . Thus, shortly after the end of the war, more than one million ethnic\nGermans from Russia were in special settlements and labor camps in Siberia and Central Asia. It \nis estimated that 200,000 to 300,000 died of starvation, lack of shelter, over-work, and disease \nduring the 1940s.\n\nOn November 26, 1948, Stalin made the banishment permanent, declaring that Russia's Germans were permanently forbidden from returning to Europe, but this was rescinded after his death in 1953. Many Russian Germans returned to European Russia, but quite a few remained in Soviet Asia.\n\nAlthough the post-Stalin Soviet state no longer persecuted ethnic Germans as a group, their Soviet republic was not re-founded. Many Germans in Russia largely assimilated and integrated into Russian society. There were some 2 million ethnic Germans in the Soviet Union in 1989. Soviet Union census revealed in 1989 that 49% of the German minority named German their mother tongue. According to the 1989 Soviet census, 957,518 citizens of German origin, or 6% of total population, lived in\nKazakhstan, and 841,295 Germans lived in Russia including Siberia.\n\nPerestroika opened the Soviet borders and witnessed the beginnings of a massive emigration of Germans from the Soviet Union. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union, large numbers of Russian Germans took advantage of Germany's liberal law of return to leave the harsh conditions of the Soviet successor states. The German population of Kyrgyzstan has practically disappeared, and Kazakhstan has lost well over half of its roughly one million Germans. The drop in the Russian Federation's German population was smaller, but still significant. A very few Germans returned to one of their ancestral provinces: about 6,000 settled in Kaliningrad Oblast (former East Prussia).\n\nSince migrating to Russia in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Germans had adopted many of the Slavic traits and cultures and formed a special group known as \"rossiskie nemtsy\", or Russian Germans. Recently, Russian Germans have become of national interest to Germany and to the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Although ethnic Germans were no longer persecuted, their pre-Bolshevik lives and villages were not re-founded. Many Germans integrated into Soviet society where they now continue to live. The displaced Germans are unable to return to their ancestral lands in the Volga River Valley or the Black Sea regions, because in many instances, those villages no longer exist after being destroyed during Stalin's regime. In 1990, approximately 45,000 Russian Germans, or 6% of the population, lived in the former German Volga Republic. During the late twentieth century, three-quarters of Russian Germans were living in Central Asia (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tadzhikistan and Uzbekistan), South-West Siberia and Southern Urals.\nStarting in the 1970s, a push-pull effect began that would influence where Russian Germans would eventually live. Because of a bad economy, tensions increased between autochthonous groups and recently settled ethnic minorities living in Central Asia. This strain worsened after the Afghanistan War began in 1979. Germans and other Europeans felt culturally and economically pressured to leave these countries, and moved to the Russian Republic. This migration continued into the 1990s. \nDuring Perestroika in the 1980s, the Soviet borders were opened and the beginnings of a massive migration of Germans from the Soviet Union occurred. Entire families, and even villages, would leave their homes and relocate together in Germany or Austria. This was because they needed to show the German Embassy certain documents, such as a family Bible, as proof that their ancestors were originally from Germany. This meant if a family member stayed in the Soviet Union, but then decided to leave later, they would be unable to because they would no longer have the necessary paperwork. Also, Russian German villages were pretty much self-sustaining so if an individual that was necessary for that community, such as a teacher, mechanic or blacksmith left, then the entire village might disappear because it was hard to find a replacement for these vital community members. \nLegal and economic pull factors contributed to Russian Germans decision to move to Germany. They were given special legal status of \"Aussiedler\" (exiles from former German territories or of German descent) which gave them instant German citizenship, the right to vote, unlimited work permit, the flight from Moscow to Frankfurt (with all of their personal belongings and household possessions), job training, and unemployment benefits for three years. \nRussian Germans from South-West Siberia received a completely different treatment than the Germans living in Central Asia. Local authorities were persuading Germans to stay by creating two self-governing districts.\n\nThe All-Union Society \"Wiedergeburt\" (Renaissance) was founded in 1989 to encourage Russian Germans to move back to, and restore the Volga Republic. This plan was not successful because Germany interfered with the discussions and created diplomatic friction, which resulted in Russian opposition to this project. A couple of those problems were the two sides could not put aside their differences and agree on certain principles such as the meaning of the word \"rehabilitation\". They also neglected the economic reasons why Russia wanted to entice Russian Germans back to the Volga. In 1992, Russian Germans and Russian officials finally agreed on a plan, but Germany did not approve it. \nOn 21 February 1992, Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation, signed a German-Russian Federation agreement with Germany to restore citizenship to Russian Germans. This Federal Program intended to gradually restore the homeland of Russian Germans, and their descendants, in the former Republic of Volga, thus encouraging Russian Germans to immigrate back to Russia. It would also guarantee the national and cultural identity of Russian Germans would be preserved, such as their culture, language and religion. At the same time, it would not block or regulate their right to leave if they decide to do so at a later point. \nEvents for a separate territory proceeded differently in Siberia, because financially stable Russian German settlements already existed. Siberian officials were economically driven to keep their skilled Russian German citizens and not see them leave for other republics or countries. In the late 1980s, 8.1% of Russian Germans lived in the county of Altay in South-West Siberia and they controlled one-third of profitable farms.\n\nIn early 1990, a few ideas offered to the Officer of Exiles (the bureau in charge of emigrants after arriving in Germany) in order to retain Russian Germans, or to promote their return included the suggestion that the necessary important village specialists (mechanics, teachers, doctors, etc.) should be offered incentives such as Trade Associations and additional training in order to keep, or to attract them to Russia. Russian German schools and universities should also be reopened. A third idea is to establish a financial institution that would motivate individuals to buy homes, and start farms or small businesses. Unfortunately, proposed initiatives have not gained traction and have not been instituted due to corruption, incompetency and inexperience. The Association for Germans Abroad (VDA) contracted with the business Inkoplan, to move families from Central Asia at vastly inflated costs. This resulted in VDA and Inkoplan personnel pocketing the difference. Examples of incompetency and inexperience included: VDA falsely projected the idea all Russian Germans wanted to leave their present homes and lives and move to the Volga region where they would start over. The Home Office was not fluent in the Russian language or familiar with foreign cultures abroad and this created many misunderstandings between various groups. Because of these actions by the Home Office, the migration back to Germany continues. Over 140,000 individuals migrated to Germany from CIS in 1990 and 1991, and almost 200,000 people migrated in 1992.\n\nIn the 2010 Russian census, 394,138 Germans were enumerated, down from 597,212 in 2002, making Germans the 20th largest ethnic group in Russia. There are approximately 300,000 Germans living in Siberia. In addition, the same census found that there are 2.9 million citizens who understand the German language (although many of these are ethnic Russians or Yiddish-speaking Jews who had learned the language). Prominent ethnic Germans in modern Russia include Viktor Kress, governor of Tomsk Oblast since 1991 and German Gref Minister of Economics and Trade of Russia since 2000. Out of the 597,212 Germans enumerated in 2002, 68% lived in Asian federal districts and 32% lived in European federal districts. The Siberian Federal District, at 308,727 had the largest ethnic German population. But even in this federal district, they formed only 1.54% of the total population. The federal subjects with largest ethnic German populations were Altay Krai (79,502), Omsk Oblast (76,334), Novosibirsk (47,275), Kemerovo (35,965), Chelyabinsk (28,457), Tyumen (27,196), Sverdlovsk (22,540), Krasnodar (18,469), Orenburg (18,055), Volgograd (17,051), Tomsk (13,444), Saratov (12,093) and Perm Krai (10,152). Although emigration to Germany is no longer common, and some Germans move from Kazakhstan to Russia, the number of Germans in Russia continues to fall, mainly due to assimilation with the majority Russians as younger Germans marry Russians and count their children in the census as Russian.\nAnother indication of assimilation is the fact that Russian Orthodoxy has become the largest faith among Russian Germans, and Lutheranism has largely been abandoned. According to a recent survey, 18% of Russian Germans consider themselves Russian Orthodox, 7.2% Catholic, and only 3.2% mainline Protestant (presumably Lutheran). Also, 34% are unaffiliated, 18% are atheist, 5% generic Christian, 2% other Orthodox, 2% neopagan, and 1.2% Pentecostal.\n\nIn 2011, the Kaluga Oblast included ethnic Germans living in the former republics of USSR, under the federal program for the return of compatriots to Russia.\n\nAccording to the 1989 census there were 100,309 Germans living in Kyrgyzstan. According to the most recent census data (1999), there were 21,472 Germans in Kyrgyzstan. The German population in Tajikistan was 38,853 in 1979.\n\nIn Germany, there are an estimated 2.3 million German Russians, who have established one of the largest Russian-speaking communities outside of the former Soviet Union along with Israel's.\n\nSeveral German international schools for expatriates living in the former Soviet Union are in operation.\n\nRussia:\n\nGeorgia:\n\nUkraine:\n\nThe German presence on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea dates back to the Middle Ages when traders and missionaries started arriving from central Europe. The German-speaking Livonian Brothers of the Sword conquered most of what is now Estonia and Latvia (the former Livonia) in the early 13th century. In 1237, the Brothers of the Sword were incorporated into the Teutonic Knights.\n\nDuring Peter the Great's rule Russia gained control over much of the Baltics from Sweden in the Great Northern War at the beginning of the 18th century, but left the German nobility in control. Until the Russification policies of the 1880s, the German community and its institutions were intact and protected under the Russian Empire. The Baltic German nobility were very influential in the Russian Tsar's army and administration.\n\nThe reforms of Alexander III replaced many of the traditional privileges of the German nobility with elected local governments and more uniform tax codes. Schools were required to teach Russian, and the Russian nationalist press began targeting segregated Germans as unpatriotic and insufficiently Russian. Baltic Germans were also the target of Estonian and Latvian nationalist movements.\n\nIn late 1939 (\"after\" the start of the Second World War), the entire remaining Baltic German community was repatriated by Adolf Hitler to areas Nazi Germany had invaded in western Poland (especially in the Warthegau). The \"legal\" basis for this was agreed in the August 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact and the subsequent Nazi–Soviet population transfers which had given the Soviet Union a green light to invade and annex Latvia and Estonia in 1940.\n\nOnly a handful of Baltic Germans remained under Soviet rule after 1945 mainly among those few who refused Germany's call to leave the Baltics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15910102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15910102", "title": "History of the Jews in Singapore", "text": "History of the Jews in Singapore\n\nThe Jewish community has a long history in Singapore, dating back to the 1800s, and is currently a significant minority population in the country.\n\nThe first wave of Jewish immigration to Singapore were Jews of Baghdadi origin. The Baghdadi Trade Diaspora occurred during the 18th and 19th centuries and was at its peak in 1817 due to the rule of Ottoman governor Dawud Pasha of Baghdad, who persecuted Jews during his 15-year rule. The first Jewish people to live in Singapore were the Baghdadi traders who were trading between the then-British ports of Calcutta and Singapore. These settlers spoke Arabic and after arriving in Singapore, adopted the Malay language, then the main language used in Singapore. Approximately 180 descendants of these Jews still exist, which the Rabbi of Singapore, Rabbi Mordechai Abergel, described as the only remaining indigenous Jews of Asia.\n\nIn 1841, three Jews, Joseph Dwek Cohen, Nassim Joseph Ezra and Ezra Ezekiel were given a land lease to build a synagogue in a small shop house at Boat Quay. The synagogue was the inspiration of the name of Synagogue Street.\n\nSynagogue Street was in the first Jewish quarter in Singapore, bordered by Wilkie Road, Mount Sophia Road, Bras Basah Road and Middle Road, which the Jewish called \"mahallah\" (meaning ‘place’ in Arabic), and was the gathering place for the Jewish community in Singapore. The local Jewish community also had a \"minhag\" that allowed for traveling to synagogue on Shabbat via rickshaw. \n\nWhen Manasseh Meyer returned to Singapore in 1873, he found the synagogue in Synagogue Street in a deplorable state and set about planning a new one for the Jewish community. Jewish community leaders sold off the old synagogue to the government and bought new land for a new synagogue along Waterloo Street, then called Church Street because of the presence of the Church of Saint Peter and Saint Paul nearby. The Jewish community soon began moving into the surrounding areas of Dhoby Ghaut, Waterloo Street, Prinsep Street, Selegie Road and Wilkie Road. Today, several Jewish buildings still exist in the area.\n\nConstruction of Maghain Aboth Synagogue, began soon after the community was given the land, and was completed in 1878. A well was sunk for use as a \"mikvah\" (ritual bath). The consecration service was held on 4 April 1878 and conducted by either Lucunas or I.J. Hayeem or both men. In 1924, extensions were made to the building.\n\nOver the years, as Jewish immigration to Singapore increased, the Maghain Aboth Synagogue began to become overcrowded during services. Because of friction between the Sephardic and Ashkenazi communities over how the services should be carried out, Sir Manasseh Meyer decided to build a new synagogue which was completed in 1905, the Chesed-El Synagogue.\n\nBy 1931, the population had grown to 832, according to a census record that the 832 Jews and larger number of Arab residents were the largest house property owners in the city.\n\nBy 1942, the same year the Japanese occupation of Singapore started, the Jewish population had grown to a high of 1,500. During the occupation, many Jewish settlers were taken to POW camps located at Changi Prison and Sime Road. In the camp, the Jewish settlers were allowed to keep a kosher kitchen.\n\nAfter World War II ended, there was an exodus of Jews to Western countries such as Israel, Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. As a result, the community dropped to approximately 450 in 1968, even falling as low as 180 sometime in the 1960s.\n\nFrom the late 1980s, the Jewish community started growing due to increased economic development and a large Ashkenazi immigration rate to Singapore and as of 2015, the community had grown to a historic high of 2,500.\n\nAs of 2015, there are 2,500 Jews in Singapore, many of whom are recent Ashkenazi migrants. Approximately 180 descendants of the \"first wave\" Jews, who are mostly orthodox, still exist, which the Rabbi of Singapore, Rabbi Mordechai Abergel, described as the only remaining indigenous Jews of Asia.\n\nOne of the most well-known Jews in the history of Singapore is David Marshall (1908-1995). He was the first chief minister of Singapore in 1955, serving for 14 months while being leader of the Labour Front. He also led the first Merdeka Talks to London in hope for gaining independence from the British but resigned after failing to gain independence from the British. Following his resignation, in 1957, he founded the Workers Party of Singapore, which is currently Singapore's second largest political party.\n\nIn his later life, he served as Singapore's ambassador to France, Switzerland, Spain, and Portugal. He died in 1995 of lung cancer.\n\nSir Manasseh Meyer (1843–1930) was a British businessman and philanthropist who was a benefactor to the Jewish community in Singapore. He was the Jewish community's most generous benefactor, being responsible for the setting up of its two synagogues — Maghain Aboth Synagogue and Chesed-El Synagogue. Chesed-El was built for the use of his family and others.\n\nTogether with three other wealthy Jews, Meyer bought a large piece of land in Moulmein Road for $5,407.12 for the Jewish Cemetery. Meyer also bought the adjoining piece of land for $8,681.40 and, after reserving a plot for himself and his second wife, Rebecca, presented it to the community. His wife Rebecca died in 1915.\n\nIn 1928, he donated $150,000 to the University of Malaya in Singapore (now the National University of Singapore), to build its science building, which has become a Singaporean national monument. Britain's King George V knighted him in 1929 after he donated $20,000 to the British military effort in World War I. Meyer Road in Singapore is named after him.\n\nFrank Benjamin was a merchant who founded retailing company F J Benjamin in 1959. In 1975, he opened Singapore's first single-brand store, Lanvin, in the Grand Hyatt hotel.\n\nJacob Ballas (1921-2000) was a Jewish stockbroker and philanthropist. He was the inaugural chairman of the Malayan Stock Exchange, from 1962 to 1964, and later the Malaysia and Singapore Stock Exchange from 1964 to 1967, growing the paid-up capital of the bourses from about $870 million to $2 billion.\n\nHarry Elias is the founder of the law firm Harry Elias Partnership LLP and one of Singapore's top lawyers. In 1985, he set up the Criminal Legal Aid Scheme, in which lawyers defend for free those poor and accused of non-capital crimes. As of 2015, the scheme has grown to serve up to 6,000 people annually.\n\nMaghain Aboth Synagogue is a synagogue located at Waterloo Street in the Rochor Planning Area, within the Central Area in Singapore's central business district. The synagogue was constructed by 1878 and is the oldest Jewish synagogue in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe synagogue is open throughout the year and is the primary synagogue of the Jewish community in Singapore, and is where many Jewish events and celebrations like Yom Kippur take place.\n\nOn 27 February 1998, the synagogue was gazetted as a national monument of Singapore.\n\nChesed-El Synagogue is a synagogue at Oxley Rise in the River Valley Planning Area, within the Central Area of Singapore. Named Chesed-El, which means \"Grace of God\", the synagogue was completed in 1905 and is the second synagogue in Singapore.\n\nThe Chesed-El Synagogue was gazetted as a national monument on 18 December 1998.\n\nThe United Hebrew Congregation (UHC Singapore) was formed in 1993. It is Singapore's only Reform Jewish community and the latest addition to Jewish life in Singapore's modern history. In 2016 it boasted a membership of over 400 Jews and their families, served by its resident Rabbi Nathan Alfred. Despite its membership size, the UHC operates as a synagogue without walls - services and events are held at various sites around the city. As of 2014, the UHC supports a weekly Jewish Religious School. The UHC and its members are dedicated to the Reform Jewish notion of Tikkun Olam, and have been engaged in various local and global fundraising and community service efforts. \nThe Sir Manasseh Meyer International School (SMMIS) is Singapore's only Jewish international school, admitting students aged 18 months to 14 years and emphasizing on having a Jewish-oriented education.\n\nThe school was founded in 1996 by Mrs Simcha Abergel as a nursery for young children, named \"Ganenu Learning Centre\". The school was later renamed to its current name in 2008, while on its 170 student capacity campus in Belvedere Close, off Tanglin Road.\n\nIn 2016, the school's new SGD$40 million campus in Jalan Ulu Sembawang opened, with a student capacity of 500 and facilities like a rooftop swimming pool and football field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218906", "title": "Irish Crown Jewels", "text": "Irish Crown Jewels\n\nThe Jewels Belonging to the Most Illustrious Order of Saint Patrick, commonly called the Irish Crown Jewels or State Jewels of Ireland, were the heavily jewelled star and badge regalia of the Sovereign and Grand Master of the Order of St. Patrick. They were stolen from Dublin Castle in 1907 along with the collars of five knights of the Order. The theft has never been solved and the jewels have never been recovered.\n\nThe Order of St Patrick is an order of knighthood established in 1783 by George III as King of Ireland to be an Irish equivalent of the English Order of the Garter and the Scottish Order of the Thistle. The British monarch, as monarch first of Ireland and later of the United Kingdom, was the Sovereign of the Order; and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was the Grand Master in the absence of the Sovereign. The insignia were worn by the Sovereign at the investiture of new Knights as members of the Order, and by the Grand Master on other formal ceremonial occasions.\n\nThe original regalia of the Sovereign were only slightly more opulent than the insignia of an ordinary Knight Member of the Order. These were replaced in 1831 by new ones presented by William IV as part of a revision of the Order's structure, and containing 394 precious stones taken from the English Crown Jewels of Queen Charlotte and the Order of the Bath star of her husband George III. The jewels were assembled by Rundell & Bridge. On the badge of Saint Patrick's blue enamel, the green shamrock was of emeralds and the red Saint Patrick's Saltire of rubies; the motto of the Order was in pink diamonds and the encrustation was of Brazilian diamonds of the first water. Notices issued after the theft described the jewels thus:\n\nWhen not being worn or cleaned, the insignia of the Sovereign and those of deceased Knights were in the custody of the Ulster King of Arms, the senior Irish officer of arms, and kept in a bank vault. The designation \"Crown Jewels\" was first applied to the star and badge regalia of the Sovereign in a 1905 revision of the Order's statutes. The label \"Irish Crown Jewels\" was publicised by newspapers after their theft.\n\nIn 1903, the jewels were transferred to a safe, which was to be placed in the newly constructed strongroom in Dublin Castle beside the Ulster King of Arms' office. The new safe was too large for the doorway to the strongroom, and Sir Arthur Vicars, the Ulster King of Arms, instead stored it in his office. Seven latch keys to the door of the Office of Arms were held by Vicars and his staff, and two keys to the safe containing the insignia were both in the custody of Vicars. Vicars was known to regularly get drunk on overnight duty and he once awoke to find the jewels around his neck. It is not known whether or not this was a prank or a practice for the actual theft.\n\nThe insignia were last worn by the Lord Lieutenant, The 7th Earl of Aberdeen, on 15 March 1907, at a function to mark Saint Patrick's Day on 17 March. They were last known to be in the safe on 11 June, when Vicars showed them to a visitor to his office. The jewels were discovered to be missing on 6 July 1907, four days before the start of a visit by King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra to the Irish International Exhibition, at which it was planned to invest The 2nd Baron Castletown into the Order. The theft is reported to have angered the King, but the visit went ahead. However, the investiture ceremony was cancelled. Also stolen were the collars of five Knight Members of the Order: four living (the Marquess of Ormonde and Earls of Howth, of Enniskillen, and of Mayo) and one deceased (The 9th Earl of Cork). These were valued at £1,050.\n\nA police investigation was conducted by the Dublin Metropolitan Police (DMP). Posters issued by the DMP depicted and described the missing jewels. Detective Chief Inspector John Kane of Scotland Yard arrived on 12 July to assist. His report, never released, is said to have named the culprit and to have been suppressed by the Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC). Vicars refused to resign his position, and similarly refused to appear at a Viceregal Commission into the theft held from 10 January 1908. Vicars argued for a public Royal Commission instead, which would have had power to subpoena witnesses. He publicly accused his second in command, Francis Shackleton, of the theft. Kane explicitly denied to the Commission that Shackleton, brother of the explorer Ernest Shackleton, was involved. Shackleton was exonerated in the Commission's report, and Vicars was found to have \"not exercise[d] due vigilance or proper care as the custodian of the regalia.\" Vicars was compelled to resign, as were all the staff in his personal employ.\n\nIn the House of Commons in August 1907, Pat O'Brien, MP blamed \"loyal and patriotic Unionist criminals\". Lord Haddo, the son of the Lord Lieutenant, was alleged by some newspapers to have been involved in the theft; Augustine Birrell, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, stated in the Commons that Haddo had been in Great Britain throughout the time period within which the theft took place. In 1912 and 1913 Laurence Ginnell suggested that the police investigation had established the identity of the thief, that his report had been suppressed to avoid scandal, and that the jewels were \"at present within the reach of the Irish Government awaiting the invention of some plausible method of restoring them without getting entangled in the Criminal Law\". In an adjournment debate in 1912 he alleged:\nHis speech was curtailed when a quorum of forty MPs was not present in the chamber. He elaborated the following week on the alleged depravity of \"two of the characters\", namely army captain Richard Gorges (\"a reckless bully, a robber, a murderer, a bugger, and a sod\") and Shackleton (\"One of [Gorges'] chums in the Castle, and a participant in the debauchery\"). Birrell denied any cover-up and urged Ginnell to give to the police any evidence he had relating to the theft or any sexual crime. Walter Vavasour Faber also asked about a cover-up; Edward Legge supported this theory.\n\nAfter Francis Shackleton was imprisoned in 1914 for passing a cheque stolen from a widow, The 6th Earl Winterton asked for the judicial inquiry demanded by Vicars.\n\nOn 23 November 1912, the \"London Mail\" alleged that Vicars had allowed a woman reported to be his mistress to obtain a copy to the key to the safe and that she had fled to Paris with the jewels. In July 1913 Vicars sued the paper for libel; it admitted that the story was completely baseless and that the woman in question did not exist; Vicars was awarded damages of £5,000. Vicars left nothing in his will to his half-brother Pierce Charles de Lacy O'Mahony, on the grounds that Mahony had repudiated a promise to recompense Vicars for the loss of income caused by his resignation.\n\nAnother theory was that the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB) had smuggled the jewels to the United States.\n\nA 1927 memo of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State, released in the 1970s, stated that W. T. Cosgrave \"understands that the Castle jewels are for sale and that they could be got for £2,000 or £3,000.\"\n\nIn 1968 the Irish journalist Bulmer Hobson published an account of the theft which stated that the jewels had been stolen by Shackleton in complicity with Captain Richard Gorges, after they had plied Vicars with so much whiskey that he had passed out. Hobson claimed the jewels had been taken to Amsterdam by Shackleton, and pledged for £20,000, with the proviso that they not be broken up for three years. Both men were homosexual, and official fears that a witch-hunt might cause greater scandal (as had the Dublin Castle homosexual scandals of 1884), may have been a reason for the compromising of the investigation. In 1913 Shackleton was charged with defrauding the gay Scottish nobleman Lord Ronald Gower of his fortune.\n\nA 2002 book suggests the jewels were stolen as a Unionist plot to embarrass the Liberal government, and later secretly returned to the Royal Family.\n\nA 1967 book suggests that the 1908 Sherlock Holmes story \"The Adventure of the Bruce-Partington Plans\" was inspired by the theft; author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was a friend of Vicars, and the fictional Valentine Walters, who steals the Plans but is caught by Holmes, has similarities with Francis Shackleton.\n\n\"Jewels\", a Bob Perrin novel based on the theft, was published in 1977.\n\n\"The Case of the Crown Jewels\" by Donald Serrell Thomas, a Sherlock Holmes story based on the theft, was published in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183504", "title": "June Havoc", "text": "June Havoc\n\nJune Havoc (born Ellen June Evangeline Hovick, November 8, 1912 – March 28, 2010) was a Canadian-born American actress, dancer, writer, and stage director.\n\nHavoc was a child vaudeville performer under the tutelage of her mother Rose Thompson Hovick. She later acted on Broadway and in Hollywood, and stage-directed, both on and off-Broadway. She last appeared on television in 1990 in a story arc on the soap opera \"General Hospital\". Her elder sister Louise gravitated to burlesque and became the well-known ecdysiast Gypsy Rose Lee.\n\nShe was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, in 1912, according to the \"Connecticut Death Index, 1949-2012\" (state file #06956). Various reliable sources cite 1913. For many years, however, 1916 was cited as her year of birth. Havoc acknowledged in her later years that 1912 was likely the correct year.\n\nShe was reportedly uncertain of the year. Her mother forged various birth certificates for both her daughters to evade child labor laws. Her life-long career in show business began when she was a child, billed as \"Baby June.\"\n\nHer sister, entertainer Gypsy Rose Lee (born as Rose Louise Hovick), was called \"Louise\" by her family members. Their parents were Rose Thompson Hovick, of German descent, and John Olaf Hovick (c. 1885-1952), the son of Norwegian immigrants, who worked as an advertising agent and reporter at \"The Seattle Times\".\n\nFollowing their parents' divorce, the two sisters earned the family's income by appearing in vaudeville, where June's talent often overshadowed Louise's. Baby June got an audition with Alexander Pantages (1876–1936), who had come to Seattle, Washington in 1902 to build theaters up and down the west coast of the United States. Soon, she was launched in vaudeville and also appeared in Hollywood movies. She could not speak until the age of three, but the films were all silent. She would cry for the cameras when her mother told her that the family's dog had died.\n\nIn December 1928, Havoc, in an effort to escape her overbearing mother, eloped with Bobby Reed, a boy in the vaudeville act. Weeks later after performing at the Jayhawk Theatre in Topeka, Kansas on December 29, 1928, Rose reported Reed to the Topeka Police, and he was arrested. Rose had a concealed gun on her when she met Bobby at the police station. She pulled the trigger, but the safety was on. She then physically attacked her soon-to-be new son-in-law, and the police had to pry her off the hapless Reed. June soon married him, leaving both her family and the act. The marriage did not last, but the two remained on friendly terms. June's only child was a daughter, born April Rose Hyde (April 2, c. 1932, New York City December 28, 1998, Paris, France). A marriage license, dated November 30, 1928 for Ellen Hovick and Weldon Hyde, would seem to indicate that Bobby Reed's real name was Weldon Hyde. April became an actress in the 1950s known as April Kent. She predeceased her mother, dying in Paris in 1998.\n\nShe adopted the surname of Havoc, a variant of her birth name. She got her first acting break on Broadway in Sigmund Romberg's \"Forbidden Melody\" in 1936. She later appeared in Rodgers and Hart's \"Pal Joey\" on Broadway. Havoc moved to Hollywood in the late 1940s, and had roles in movies such as \"Gentleman's Agreement\". Havoc and her sister continued to get demands for money and gifts from their mother until her death in 1954.\n\nAfter their mother's death, the sisters then were free to write about her without risking a lawsuit. Lee's memoir, titled \"Gypsy\", was published in 1957 and was taken as inspirational material for the Jule Styne, Stephen Sondheim, and Arthur Laurents Broadway musical \"\". Havoc did not like the way she was portrayed in the piece, which became a source of contention between the two, but gave her agreement in her sister's financial interest. Havoc and Lee reportedly were estranged for more than a decade, but reconciled shortly before Lee's death in 1970.\n\nHavoc wrote two memoirs, \"Early Havoc\" and \"More Havoc\". She also wrote a play entitled \"Marathon '33\", based on \"Early Havoc\" with elements of \"They Shoot Horses, Don't They?\" The play starred Julie Harris, and was directed and choreographed by June Havoc and opened the ANTA Playhouse (now the August Wilson Theatre) in December 1963, running for 48 performances and receiving four Tony Award nominations.\n\nHavoc was married three times. Her first marriage, at age 16, was in December 1928 to Bobby Reed, a boy in her vaudeville act. Her second marriage was in 1935 was to Donald S. Gibbs; they later divorced. Her third marriage, to radio and television director and producer William Spier (1906–1973), lasted from January 25, 1948 until his death. Havoc's sister Gypsy Rose Lee died of lung cancer in 1970, aged 59, and is interred at Inglewood Park Cemetery in Inglewood, California.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Havoc purchased an abandoned train depot and various 19th-century buildings in Wilton, Connecticut called Cannon Crossing. Restoring, rebuilding and repurposing several small buildings from other locations, she worked hands-on and successfully completed this vast restoration project, which remains a popular destination today. It is home to artisan shops, galleries, boutiques, a cafe and a restaurant.\n\nA long-time resident of Fairfield County (Weston, Wilton and lastly North Stamford) Connecticut, Havoc was fiercely devoted to the care and well-being of animals. Her homes were a nurturing and loving sanctuary to many orphaned geese, donkeys, cats, and dogs over the decades.\n\nHavoc was a Democrat and supported Adlai Stevenson in the 1952 presidential election.\n\nHavoc died at her home in Stamford, Connecticut, on March 28, 2010, from unspecified natural causes. She was believed to be 97 at the time of her death.\n\nIn 1960, Havoc was honored with two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fameone at 6618 Hollywood Boulevard for her contributions to the motion picture industry, and the other at 6413 Hollywood Boulevard for television.\n\nHavoc was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Direction of a Play in 1964 for \"Marathon '33\", which she wrote.\n\nIn 2000, Havoc was inducted into the American Theatre Hall of Fame.\n\nThe June Havoc Theatre, housed at the Abingdon Theatre in New York City, was named for her in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28552228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28552228", "title": "Kasi (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Kasi (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Kasi () or Kansi () is a Pashtun tribe from the Sarbani tribal confederacy, primarily found in Balochistan, Pakistan and in Loy Kandahar, Afghanistan. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35039799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35039799", "title": "Kinabatangan language", "text": "Kinabatangan language\n\nKinabatangan is a language of Sabah.\n"}
{"id": "47625323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47625323", "title": "LGBT ageing", "text": "LGBT ageing\n\nLGBT ageing addresses issues and concerns related to ageing and minority sexualities or gender identities. Older LGBT* people are marginalised by: a) younger LGBT people, because of ageism and age discrimination; and b) by older age social networks because of heteronormativity (the assumption that heterosexuality is the norm), heterosexism (the privileging of heterosexuality), biphobia, homophobia and transphobia (prejudice and discrimination towards LGBT people).\n\nThere has been a growth of interest in lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans (LGBT) ageing in recent years. There is a growing body of academic literature on the subject from the USA, the UK, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and Ireland. There is also a number of documents from social policy and/or campaign organisations, particularly in relation to health and social care issues, for example from the Metlife Mature Market Institute.\n\nThe earliest waves of research sought ‘to challenge the image of the lonely and bitter old queer’ and ‘suggested that older gay men and lesbians are not alone, isolated, or depressed but benefit from navigating a stigmatized identity through crisis competence’, which also informs resilience in dealing with inequalities associated with older age. Subsequent authors questioned the positive bias which may have been present in some of these initial studies. More recent research has focused on health, housing and social care and support needs, older LGBT rights and also the differences between and among older LGBT* individuals, particularly in relation to gender. There is a lack of research on Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) older LGBT* individuals, ageing and bisexuality, issues of class and other intersections.\n\nPresent cohorts of older lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGBT) people are more likely to be estranged from their biological families, less likely to have children, and thus less likely to have access to intergenerational social support in later life. They may have strong ‘family of friends’ networks, but as these tend to be formed by people of similar ages, when, in older age, they need increased care and support at around the same time, they are then also less likely to be able to provide it to one another. This means that older LGBT people are more likely to need formal social care and support sooner, and in greater numbers, than older heterosexual people, particularly, for those in couples, after a partner has died. Older trans* people with children, particularly those who have transitioned in later life, can experience rejection from biological families and so even those with children may lack access to intergenerational support.\n\nMainstream housing and social care provision (domicilary/home care, community care, supported housing, retirement and nursing home facilities) is ill-equipped to meet the needs of older LGBT* people. Many older LGBT people currently living in older age accommodation and/or care spaces try to conceal their lives, identities and significant relationships if they can. They fear being misunderstood, vulnerable to prejudice and discrimination and/or isolated from their families and friends. They are especially concerned about care if they develop dementia, in terms of 'coming out to care' whether their identities will be respected, their memories validated, and who will be there to speak up for them. In response to these issues and concerns a range of good practice guidelines have been developed in the USA, for example focussing on cultural competence or more practical step-by-step advice, UK, and Australia. However, it is not yet clear how many commissioners and providers of services for older people are following these guidelines, and many older LGBT people continue to consider older age care spaces to be unsafe places in which to spend their final years.\n\n\nTrans* is an umbrella term which covers the gender identity spectrum: including (but not limited to) transgender, transsexual, transvestite, genderqueer, genderfluid, non-binary, genderless, agender, non-gendered, third gender, two-spirit and bigender.\n\n"}
{"id": "49997128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49997128", "title": "List of abolitionist forerunners", "text": "List of abolitionist forerunners\n\nThomas Clarkson (1760 – 1846), the pioneering abolitionist, prepared a \"map\" of the \"streams\" of \"forerunners and coadjutors\" of the abolitionist movement, which he published in his work, \"The History of the Rise, Progress, and Accomplishment of the Abolition of the African Slave-Trade by the British Parliament\" published in 1808. The map shows streams with various branches that led to the late-eighteenth-century movement that convinced the British Parliament to ban the slave trade. The list below is taken from Clarkson's map.\n\nNo women appear to be on the list, although many in fact were involved in the movement including Hannah More, Joanna Baillie, and Anna Laetitia Barbauld. James Oglethorpe does not appear on the list, even though he and other Georgia Trustees prohibited slavery in the Province of Georgia. Oglethorpe later collaborated in opposing the slave trade with Granville Sharp, whom Clarkson describes as \"the father of the cause in England\". Slavery as both a moral and legal concern arose in the early days of the Georgia Colony, which prohibited slavery in 1735 and was challenged by neighboring South Carolina, a slaveholding society.\n\nMany others who warrant mention may not acknowledged in Clarkson's list. A section is provided below for the addition of other forerunners. For a more comprehensive list that includes subsequent periods, see List of abolitionists.\n\nList of \"forerunners and coajutors\" on map:\n\n\n\nQuakers of Pennsylvania dating from 1688:\n\n\n\nMany of the London salons and circles of the 1770s and later took up the cause of antislavery, at least intellectually, thus paving the way for later action. Examples include Johnson's Circle, the Blue Stocking Society, and James Oglethorpe's associates.\n\n\n\nThomas Clarkson “map” http://www2.vcdh.virginia.edu/emancipation/TCAbolMap/clarkson.html\n"}
{"id": "13676354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13676354", "title": "Migration in China", "text": "Migration in China\n\nInternal migration in the People's Republic of China is one of the most extensive in the world according to the International Labour Organization. In fact, research done by Kam Wing Chan of the University of Washington suggests that \"In the 30 years since 1979, China's urban population has grown by about 440 million to 622 million in 2009. Of the 440 million increase, about 340 million was attributable to net migration and urban reclassification. Even if only half of that increase was migration, the volume of rural-urban migration in such a short period is likely the largest in human history.\" Migrants in China are commonly members of a floating population, which refers primarily to migrants in China without local household registration status through the Chinese Hukou system. In general, rural-urban migrant workers are most excluded from local educational resources, citywide social welfare programs and many jobs because of their lack of hukou status. Migrant workers are not necessarily rural workers; they can simply be people living in urban areas with rural household registration.\n\nIn 2015 a total of 277.5 million migrant workers (36% of the total workforce of 770 million) existed in China. Out of these, migrant workers who left their hometown and worked in other provinces accounted for 158.63 million (an increase of 3.4% compared to 2010) and migrant workers who worked within their home provinces reached 94.15 million (an increase of 5.9% compared to 2010). The balance of gender for migrant workers was two-thirds male to one-third female in 2015. Estimations are that Chinese cities will face an influx of another 243 million migrants by 2025, taking the urban population up to nearly 1 billion people. This population of migrants would represent \"almost 40 percent of the total urban population,\" a number which is almost three times the current level. While it is often difficult to collect accurate statistical data on migrant floating populations, the number of migrants is undoubtedly quite large. \"In China's largest cities, for instance, it is often quoted that at least one out of every five persons is a migrant.\"\n\nChina's government influences the pattern of urbanization through the Hukou permanent residence registration system, land-sale policies, infrastructure investment and the incentives offered to local government officials. The other factors influencing migration of people from rural provincial areas to large cities are more employment, education, and business opportunities, and higher standard of living.\n\nIn 1668 during the reign of the Kangxi Emperor, the Qing government decreed a prohibition of non-Eight Banner people getting into Northeast China Manchuria of their origin. Han Chinese were banned from settling in this region but the rule was openly violated and Han Chinese became a majority in urban areas by the early 19th century.\n\nHowever Qing rule saw an massively increasing amount of Han Chinese both illegally and legally streaming into Manchuria and settling down to cultivate land as Manchu landlords desired Han Chinese peasants to rent on their land and grow grain, most Han Chinese migrants were not evicted as they went over the Great Wall and Willow Palisade, during the eighteenth century Han Chinese farmed 500,000 hectares of privately owned land in Manchuria and 203,583 hectares of lands which were part of coutrier stations, noble estates, and Banner lands, in garrisons and towns in Manchuria Han Chinese made up 80% of the population.\n\nHan Chinese farmers were resettled from north China by the Qing to the area along the Liao River in order to restore the land to cultivation. Wasteland was reclaimed by Han Chinese squatters in addition to other Han who rented land from Manchu landlords. Despite officially prohibiting Han Chinese settlement on the Manchu and Mongol lands, by the 18th century the Qing decided to settle Han refugees from northern China who were suffering from famine, floods, and drought into Manchuria and Inner Mongolia so that Han Chinese farmed 500,000 hectares in Manchuria and tens of thousands of hectares in Inner Mongolia by the 1780s. The Qianlong Emperor allowed Han Chinese peasants suffering from drought to move into Manchuria despite him issuing edicts in favor of banning them from 1740-1776. Chinese tenant farmers rented or even claimed title to land from the \"imperial estates\" and Manchu Bannerlands in the area. Besides moving into the Liao area in southern Manchuria, the path linking Jinzhou, Fengtian, Tieling, Changchun, Hulun, and Ningguta was settled by Han Chinese during the Qianlong Emperor's reign, and Han Chinese were the majority in urban areas of Manchuria by 1800. To increase the Imperial Treasury's revenue, the Qing sold formerly Manchu only lands along the Sungari to Han Chinese at the beginning of the Daoguang Emperor's reign, and Han Chinese filled up most of Manchuria's towns by the 1840s according to Abbe Huc.\n\nHan Chinese were officially forbidden to settle in Inner and Outer Mongolia. Mongols were forbidden from crossing into the Han Chinese 18 provinces (neidi) without permission and were given punishments if they did. Mongols were forbidden from crossing into another Mongol leagues. Han Chinese settlers violated the rule and crossed into and settled in Inner Mongolia.\n\nDespite officially prohibiting Han Chinese settlement on the Manchu and Mongol lands, by the 18th century the Qing decided to settle Han refugees from northern China who were suffering from famine, floods, and drought into Manchuria and Inner Mongolia so that Han Chinese farmed 500,000 hectares in Manchuria and tens of thousands of hectares in Inner Mongolia by the 1780s.\n\nOrdinary Mongols were not allowed to travel outside their own leagues. Mongols were forbidden by the Qing from crossing the borders of their banners, even into other Mongol Banners and from crossing into neidi (the Han Chinese 18 provinces) and were given serious punishments if they did in order to keep the Mongols divided against each other to benefit the Qing.\n\nDuring the eighteenth century, growing numbers of Han Chinese settlers had illegally begun to move into the Inner Mongolian steppe. By 1791 there had been so many Han Chinese settlers in the Front Gorlos Banner that the jasak had petitioned the Qing government to legalize the status of the peasants who had already settled there.\n\nThe Qing implemented two different policies for Dzungaria (Northern Xinjiang) and the Tarim Basin (Altishahr, Southern Xinjiang). The Manchus had wiped out the native Buddhist Oirat Dzungars in their land of Dzungaria. Then the Qing implemented a large scale settlement in Dzungaria to colonize the newly empty grasslands. Han Chinese were encouraged by the Qing to permanently settle and colonize Dzungaria while permanent Han settlers were banned from the Tarim with only Han merchants allowed. The ban was lifted in the 1820s after the invasion of Jahangir Khoja and Han Chinese were allowed to permanently settle in the Tarim.\n\nHans were around one third of Xinjiang's population in 1800, during the time of the Qing Dynasty. Professor of Chinese and Central Asian History at Georgetown University, James A. Millward wrote that foreigners often mistakenly think that Urumqi was originally a Uyghur city and that the Chinese destroyed its Uyghur character and culture, however, Ürümqi was founded as a Chinese city by Han and Hui (Tungans), and it is the Uyghurs who are new to the city. While a few people try to give a misportrayal of the historical Qing situation in light of the contemporary situation in Xinjiang with Han migration, and claim that the Qing settlements and state farms were an anti-Uyghur plot to replace them in their land, Professor James A. Millward pointed out that the Qing agricultural colonies in reality had nothing to do with Uyghur and their land, since the Qing banned settlement of Han in the Uyghur Tarim Basin and in fact directed the Han settlers instead to settle in the non-Uyghur Dzungaria and the new city of Ürümqi, so that the state farms which were settled with 155,000 Han Chinese from 1760-1830 were all in Dzungaria and Ürümqi, where there was only an insignificant amount of Uyghurs, instead of the Tarim Basin oases.\n\nAt the start of the 19th century, 40 years after the Qing reconquest, there were around 155,000 Han and Hui Chinese in northern Xinjiang and somewhat more than twice that number of Uyghurs in southern Xinjiang. A census of Xinjiang under Qing rule in the early 19th century tabulated ethnic shares of the population as 30% Han and 60% Turkic, while it dramatically shifted to 6% Han and 75% Uyghur in the 1953 census, however a situation similar to the Qing era-demographics with a large number of Han has been restored as of 2000 with 40.57% Han and 45.21% Uyghur. Professor Stanley W. Toops noted that today's demographic situation is similar to that of the early Qing period in Xinjiang. In northern Xinjiang, the Qing brought in Han, Hui, Uyghur, Xibe, and Kazakh colonists after they exterminated the Zunghar Oirat Mongols in the region, with one third of Xinjiang's total population consisting of Hui and Han in the northern are, while around two thirds were Uyghurs in southern Xinjiang's Tarim Basin.\n\nÜrümqi was settled with troops while Green Standard troops and Altishari Turkic peoples settled in Ili after being ordered to by Qianlong in 1757. Ürümqi was used as a place for exiles.\n\nThe genocide victim Dzungars were the natives of northern Xinjiang. Han, Manchu, and Southern Xinjiang's Turkic Taranchi Muslims were all colonizers in Northern Xinjiang (Dzungaria). Han soldiers of the Green STandard army were settled in the 1770s in Ili and Ürümqi by the Qing.\n\nÜrümqi had very little Uyghurs while it had many Hui and Han in 1787. There were 76,496 Uyghurs and 477,321 Han in 1960 Ürümqi.\n\nThe Qing stationed both Manchu Bannermen and Han Chinese Green Standard Army soldiers in Tibet. A community descended from Han Chinese soldiers and officials grew in Lhasa.\n\nAt multiple places such as Lhasa, Batang, Dartsendo, Lhari, Chamdo, and Litang, Green Standard troops were garrisoned throughout the Dzungar war. Green Standard Army troops and Manchu Bannermen were both part of the Qing force who fought in Tibet in the war against the Dzungars. It was said that the Sichuan commander Yue Zhongqi entered Lhasa first when the 2,000 Green Standard soldiers and 1,000 Manchu soldiers of the \"Sichuan route\" seized Lhasa. According to Mark C. Elliott, after 1728 the Qing used Green Standard Army troops to man the garrison in Lhasa rather than Bannermen. According to Evelyn S. Rawski both Green Standard Army and Bannermen made up the Qing garrison in Tibet. According to Sabine Dabringhaus, Green Standard Chinese soldiers numbering more than 1,300 were stationed by the Qing in Tibet to support the 3,000 strong Tibetan army.\n\nIn the mid 19th century, arriving with an Amban, a community of Chinese troops from Sichuan who married Tibetan women settled down in the Lubu neighborhood of Lhasa, where their descendants established a community and assimilated into Tibetan culture. Hebalin was the location of where Chinese Muslim troops and their offspring lived, while Lubu was the place where Han Chinese troops and their offspring lived.\n\nThe unique hukou system of China distinguishes Chinese internal migration from migration in other developing countries. In 1958, China established the universal hukou system that restricted the mobility of the population. It aimed to tie farmers to land, secure agricultural supply as well as to support industrial sector in cities after the Great Leap Forward and Great Chinese Famine which caused at least 30 millions deaths. The government allocated housing, jobs, food and other necessities based on the hukou system, which made it almost impossible for people without local hukou status to live in urban areas.\n\nIn addition to Hukou system, the people's commune system was another tool to control labor mobility. Under the people's commune system, the earnings of farmers were closely related to their daily participation in the collective farming. In 1978, during Chinese economic reform, this system was replaced by the household-responsibility system, which loosened the restriction of people's mobility. \nHuang and Pieke divide the migration policy evolution after Chinese economic reform into four periods. The first period is from 1979 to 1983, during which the government still prohibited migration. The second period is from 1984 to 1988 when farmers were allowed to enter urban areas on the condition that they provided their own food. The third period is from 1989 to 1991 when migration became much more popular and had attracted much attention from the government. The fourth period is from 1992 to 2000, during which the government in some degree encouraged migration, while urban local governments controlled migration more strictly because of high unemployment rates in cities.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1985, the net migration rate for China was 0.24, compared with world average of 1.84 from 1950 to 1990. Since the mid-1980s, rural to urban migration became a constant social phenomenon. Zhao and Sicular report that the number of rural-urban migration doubled between the late 1980s and the mid 1990s. In 1989, there were 8.9 million migrants and in 1994 the number increased to 23.0 millions. In 2006 it was estimated that China was experiencing a –0.39 per 1,000 population net migration rate. According to National Bureau of Statistics, there were 252.78 million migrant workers in China in 2011.\n\nRural-urban migrant workers have a significant presence in China's labor force. By 2006, migrant workers comprised 40% of the total urban labor force. According to data from National Bureau of Statistics, in 2009 nearly 39.1% of them worked in manufacturing, about 17.3% in construction and more than 7.8% in wholesale and retail. In addition, the number of the migrants who were employed in the tertiary sector of the economy was increasing, which indicated a new trend of employment choice. A report from International Labour Organization in 2006 states that there were also 80 million workers working in the informal sector and it was estimated that between two-thirds and three-quarters of all new employment is in the informal economy. In the informal economy, many rural migrants are engaged in low-paying and temporary jobs such as sanitation workers and porters. Zhu addresses that they are not \"employed\" in the informal sector, but they \"have access only\" to the informal sector. \nScholars agree that there is a sharp occupational segregation between migrants and the local population. A study that compared employment situations of urban residents and migrant labors in 2005 reports that around 52% of migrants were self-employed, while 12% of the local residents were self-employed; 12% of migrant workers were employed in the public sector, compared with 68% of the local workforce.\n\nThe degree of segregation varies from province to province. A series of field studies by China Center for Economic Research demonstrate that the labor market in Sichuan province is relatively integrated, while in Guangdong province and Shanghai the labor market is quite segregated with \"rural migratory-worker urban-resident-worker dualism\". \nIn addition to inadequate social protection, the primary reason of the occupational segregation is the migrant workers’ lack of skills and education, which keeps them in manual labor. Migrant workers have less human capital since they have less schooling, shorter job tenure and less training compared with the local residents. Moreover, because of the high rate of job mobility among rural migrant workers, employers have little incentive to train them and thereby prevent them from increasing their social capital.\n\nThe causes of migration can originate from various factors within Chinese societies. Migration in some contexts can refer to the search for self-identity and self-transformation which pushed many young workers to migrate to more urbanized areas of China. This search for self-identity and self transformation was consequence of recent globalization. \"Mobility and modernity have become inextricably linked in the contemporary era of globalization\". Secondly, migration to distant cities for work was not an option for most rural workers of previous generations. Migration created many opportunities for both women and men to extricate themselves from their current rural status and create a new name for themselves and their family. Thirdly, migration enabled the rural youth to become wage earners, consumers and city-dwellers which allowed them to become more globalized and mobile than they would have within their own respective villages. While the urbanization of Chinese workers provides them with more opportunity, it also can constrain them, as migrant workers, specifically females, typically make lower wages and are viewed as replaceable labor.\nLabor surplus in rural areas is often regarded as one of the factors of internal migration in China. Central to this theory is that surplus rural labor provides a needed work force for industrial growth in urban areas On one hand, the Household-responsibility system (HRS) established during Chinese economic reform was productive and generated surplus labor in rural areas. On the other hand, in urban areas the development of the special economic zones and industries created demand for labor force. Some scholars state that, while the surplus rural labor is viewed as the main \"push factor\", demand for labor can be regarded as the main \"pull factor\". Others contend that high unemployment rates in urban areas rejected this paradigm.\n\nEarly in 1970, the Harris-Todaro model recognized that the persistent wage differential between urban and rural sectors is a main \"pull\" factor of migration in developing countries. In Zhu's study conducted in 2002, he presents a model of migration in his study and confirms the significance of the urban-rural income gap for migration decisions. Studies of Dr. Cai, Director of Institute of Population and Labor Economics, demonstrate that an increase of the ratio of local rural income to the average national rural income will reduce migration. Besides the huge rural-urban income gap, the regional income gap also drives internal migration in China. As noted by Zhao whose research interest mainly lies in labor economics, many migrants flow from the western region with low incomes to the eastern region with higher incomes.\n\nMigrant networks have a significant role in labor migration. Migrant networks are \"sets of interpersonal ties that connect migrants, former migrants, and non-immigrants\" through the ties of family members, friendships, and the overall community. The role is \"particularly prominent in situations in which migration involves large informational or psychic costs, such as when moving to a completely different culture or environment or if the destination labor market is hostile to immigrants\". China's migrants are heavily dependent on their migrant networks to assist them in finding jobs and houses, while also making sure they are financially stable. Migrant networks can reduce the cost of labor migration by providing job information and supportive relationships to the immigrants, as well as job search assistance. These networks can be described by the Chinese term Guanxi which \"describes the basic dynamic in personalized networks of influence.\" Migrant workers can potentially find jobs at a restaurant or within the garment industry run by migrants from the same origins. In a study conducted by Liang and Morroka, whose research focuses on migration in China, they reported that female migrants are more likely to rely on the developed migration networks, while younger migrants and those with higher level of education are less likely to depend on the networks.\n\nHow do transient individuals experience migration in China, and what are the cultural, social, and even political ramifications of their migration experience? Through these experiences, many migrants come to expect certain benefits. Gaetano explains that China “understands that a woman should have a life outside of the fields and the kitchen. This awareness will surely help improve the quality of life for women in the rural areas.” This quote suggests that rural women in particular who were exposed to modern globalization of gender and cultural roles lived improved lives.\nLabor in China was greatly segregated by gender. Where typically young, beautiful women found jobs in the beauty industry and often found better wages and living quarters. Gaetano further explains that “women have had a virtual monopoly in urban domestic service and hotel and restaurant hospitality”. While females took the hospitality industry, males found themselves in the low-skill, low-wage industrial jobs which includes construction-like jobs. Though the jobs held grueling hours, being paid and establishing an identity separate from their household was a huge benefit for many transient workers.\nGenerally speaking, the difference in living standards between rural and urban workers was apparent where urban workers tended to live a more lavish lifestyle. This lavish lifestyle included better living quarters, nutrition, guanxi (social connections), and access to education. Education especially was a huge factor for the migration of families. Rural women were seeking to better educate their offspring in the hopes of better economic success for their children.\n\nWith the benefits of migration comes the cost of migration for many transient workers. Even though traveling to a larger city with more opportunities appeared beneficial, in many instances migrants were treated harshly and viewed as second class citizens. Gao Yu, the China country director for the Landesa Rural Development Institute in Seattle stated that “Migrants who move with their children face a host of other challenges, including enrolling their children in school. Many schools regard prior education background as an important criterion and will not admit children educated in rural schools – often considered inferior.” This quote suggests that many migrants and their children were seen as inferior in schools, as well as in many other public areas in China. Because many rural Chinese workers were making about $2 a day, they were forced to move to the city, causing an influx of migrant workers who were seeking better opportunities. In response, In the mid 1980s in China, in order to control migration rates, transient workers were required to carry personal identity cards, employment registration card, and a certificate of good health which often had high fees due to corruption and were many times denied by the Hukou system At the time, migrants were seen as a nuisance to society and needed to be kept in check. However, in the mid-2000s attitudes towards migration drastically changed. In the novel Out to work, Migration, Gender, and the Changing Lives of Rural Women in Contemporary China, Gaetano explained how “Migrants were finally recognized to be critical in narrowing the rural-urban income gap, as they redistribute wealth through remittances and apply new knowledge and skills to develop rural areas”. Even though China recognized the importance of migrant workers, their “low levels of education, skills, and work experience, and their dearth of urban social connections, combined with the hukou-based job distribution” still created many disadvantages for rural migrants.\n\nIn general, the current system of circular migration of floating populations in China offers greater labor resources to coastal areas of high economic activity, but \"although labor productivity in migrant activities is higher than it is in local nonfarm sectors, the current economic cost of migration in China is so high as to significantly limit such reallocation. The current system therefore works to reduce the overall productivity of labor and causes a tremendous loss of social resources.\" In other words, research done by Yaohui Zhao at Beijing University indicates that while economic theory demonstrates labor migration to increase efficiency due to the reallocation of labor, the economic cost of migration actually mitigates gains in efficiency enough that internal migration under the Hukou system results in financial and social losses instead of gains.\n\nViolations of labor standards involve labor contracts, working conditions, wage payments and social insurance. The problems in terms of labor standards violations are rooted in institutional discrimination against migrant workers as well as inadequate law enforcement.\n\nLow incidents of labor contracts are a main form of labor standards violations, which allows employers to further violate labor rights in many other aspects. According to a survey conducted by the Ministry of Urban and Rural Development, Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the All-China Federation of Trade Unions in 2004, only between 10% and 37.5% of the migrants working in the construction industry signed labor contracts. A recent research by the Jinan Daily demonstrates that eight out of ten migrant workers did not know what the labor contract was. Many employers thus take advantage of migrant workers’ unawareness and do not fulfill their obligations to sign labor contracts. \nThe working condition is one manifest aspect of labor standards violations.The majority of migrants work more hours per day and more days per week than what is limited by labor law. The Chinese Household Income Project Survey of 2002 show that over 80% of migrants worked seven days per week, and only 7% workers’ working time was in accordance with what law regulated. It also showed that around 33.3% of migrant workers worked 9 to 10 hours per day, about 25% 11 to 12 hours and 12% 13 or more hours per day. Safety is another concern regarding the working condition. The prevalence of migrant workers in dangerous jobs results in a high number of work-related illnesses, injuries and deaths. Migrant workers make up 80% of the deaths in mining, construction, and chemical factories. And about 90% of those suffering from work-related diseases are migrant workers.\n\nIn terms of wage payment, although labor law regulates a minimum wage, many employers either ignore the regulation or consider it to be the maximum wage. According to an article in China Daily in 2006, nearly 30% of migrant workers earned RMB 300 and 500 on average per month, nearly 40% between RMB 500 and 800 and about 28% more than RMB 800. Moreover, it is common for migrant workers not to receive their wage on time, due to the lack of protection of labor rights. The government has realized the seriousness of wage arrears and taken many measures to deal with this issue. The situation has been improved a lot, but overall the problem of wage arrears still exists. In 2006, around 10% of rural-urban migrant workers received their wages on average seven months late.\n\nThe limited access of migrant workers to social insurance highlights their vulnerability. A survey conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2005 reports that only 13% of rural-urban migrant workers had insurance coverage for occupational injuries and diseases, only 10% for medical insurance and 15% for pension scheme. Another survey reports that migrant workers’ participation in pension schemes was as high as 33.7%; medical care, 21.6%; unemployment insurance, 10.3%; employment injury insurance, 31.8%. The Chinese Academy of Social Sciences estimates that less than 5% got pension insurance and less than 3% of rural migrant laborers enjoyed unemployment insurance.\n\nAt a group expert meeting of the United Nations in January 2008, a number of class-based implications of Chinese urban growth due to migration were identified, including \"wage arrears, unfair compensation for land expropriated, urban poverty,\" issues of \"public safety and social stability,\" and the potential creation of a \"permanent urban underclass\" of 200 million or more workers. Class inequality is commonly reflected in income differentials; \"in urban China, urban resident annual earnings are 1.3 times larger than long-term rural migrant earnings as observed in a nationally represented sample in 2002.\" Additionally, migrant workers in China are generally excluded from the social services their local neighbors enjoy; \"migrant workers’ basic needs for housing, social security, and education for their children are not protected by the local government.\"\n\nThe floating population of Chinese migrant workers \"presents major public health challenges, especially in the provision of reproductive health care for migrant women and the need to address the increased risk to both sexes of infection with sexually transmitted diseases and HIV.\" A survey of migrant workers published in the journal \"Public Health Reports\" indicated that \"forty-seven percent of the migrants were unwilling to make contributions to health insurance,\" and \"poor living conditions and inattention to health may make migrants vulnerable to poor long-term health.\" Despite these health issues presented by the floating population, certain factors mitigate the health impact of internal migration in China. In a questionnaire administered to a variety of rural, urban, and migrant workers in Zhejing Province, Eastern China, 2004, indicated that \"Migrants had the best self-rated health and reported the least acute illness, chronic disease, and disability, after controlling for age and education.\" In light of this data, the researchers concluded that the migrants had zero HIV infections, and the migrant workers examined demonstrated the \"healthy migrant effect.\" Despite this, migration still creates a negative effect on public health due to the lack of affordable health care.\n\nHistorically, \"migration has been associated with increased vulnerability to mental health problems,\" and this has prompted some research into the mental health status of China's hundreds of millions of rural-urban migrants. Research by scholars from Zhejiang University and the UCL Centre for International Health and Development has however revealed that \"rural-urban migrant workers in this part of China are not especially vulnerable to poor mental health.\" They believe that this \"may result from a sense of well being associated with upward economic mobility and improved opportunities, and the relatively high social capital in migrant communities.\" Thus, the \"healthy migrant effect\" also exhibits itself in the mental health of rural-urban migrants in China.\n\nMigration in China has produced a number of important impacts with regard to gender and gender equality in modern China. This process, usually known as a 'transition', \"has gendered consequences and differential implications for men and women.\" The men and women who partake in rural-urban labor migration are \"channeled into gender-segregated jobs and that gender division of labor is increasingly becoming a dominant mode of household production in the countryside.\" According to research conducted by Youqin Huang and published in the journal Environment and Planning A, \"the constraints of human capital, the patriarchal culture and the Household Registration (Hukou).\ntheir doubly marginalized identities as both women and rural residents.\"\n\nAccording to a research conducted by Zai Liang and Yiu Por Chen and published in the journal \"Social Science Research\", \"migration usually has negative consequences for children's schooling because of the loss of social capital in schools, neighborhood, and community of origin.\" In theory, migrant children can study in urban public schools, but access is usually limited. The main reason is that the education budget for compulsory education is allocated through local governments and strictly based on local hukou population. Many of the urban public schools with a limited education budget are consequently reluctant to accept migrant children.\n\nOne usual way for migrant children to study in urban public schools, which is distinct from usual admission procedure, is to pay \"sponsorship\" fees (zanzhu fei). The amount of such fees can be prohibitive for poor migrant parents, which impedes many migrant children to get enrolled in public schools. Up to now, there are some improvements in terms of access to urban public schools and some cities have banned \"sponsorship\" fees, but specific policy varies from city to city. A large portion of migrant children are still excluded from the urban public education system.\n\nIn response to the lack of access to public educational resources, migrants in some big cities began to set their own schools since the 1990s. These schools are known as migrant-sponsored schools (nongmingong zidi xuexiao). At the beginning, urban authorities refused to grant licenses and even closed down the schools. Although local governments didn’t need to be responsible for migrants’ welfare,\nthey should still be responsible for any accident such as the collapse of buildings or food poisoning that happened in the\nschools. These schools are usually less expensive with average tuition fees around 300 RMB per semester. According to Lu and Zhang's research conducted in Beijing in 2001, migrant-sponsored schools usually did not have licenses, high education quality, and adequate facilities. They, however, conclude that despite such disadvantages, these schools at least provided migrant children with basic education.\n\nIn addition to the issue of access to education, migrant children have to return to their places of their hukou origin to pass the examination for entry to a higher level of education. The entire school enrollment system in China is place-based and they can only pass certain examinations in their places of hukou origin. This leads to discrepancies between what migrant students have studied in urban areas and what they will be examined as textbooks in different cities and provinces can be quite different.\n\nLeft-behind children in China refer to the children who live with one parent (usually mother) or extended family (usually grandparents) when their parent(s) is (are) absent from home as migrant workers in urban areas. They are left behind partly because of little access to basic welfare in cities without local hukou status and partly because of high living expenses in cities. According to Ministry of Education, in 2012 there were more than 12.6 million migrant children and 58 million left-behind children from 7 years old to 16 years old. Left-behind children will have more health, emotional and behavior issues than those who grow up with their parents.\n\nLeft-behind children are generally less healthy, but the difference is very marginal. A study conducted by several professors from Chinese University of Hong Kong reports that left-behind children are more likely to have a less healthy diet and lower rates of physical activity. In terms of nutrition, left-behind children face more nutrition problems such as low intake of some nutrients and poor physical development related to nutrition. Further, many studies find that left-behind children are more likely to have a smoking habit, compared to children with no migrant parents. Primary causes include insufficient public awareness and lack of health education programs. Weak implementation of related regulations in rural areas such as prohibition to sell cigarettes to children under 18 may also contribute to this unsatisfying situation.\n\nLeft-behind children are also prone to undergo emotional and psychological problems. Liang's study of 250 left-behind junior high school students suggests that 16.6% of them felt abandoned, 12.3% had problems expressing difficulties, and 6.5% felt \"anguished\" when being left behind. In addition, the earlier those children are separated from parents, more symptoms of depression and anxiety will be reported. \nMoreover, various studies indicate that left-behind children are more likely to have behavioral problems. Qualitative observations indicate that left-behind children often behavior extremely, either withdrawn or excessively aggressive. It has also been reported that left-behind children tend to be \"indifferent, introverted, inferior\" and \"selfish\". \nThe problems noted above are mainly due to the fact that the grandparents either spoil the children or fail to give them enough emotional support. Physical weakness and low education levels of grandparents who take care of left-behind children also contribute to the problems.\n\nComparative studies show that left-behind children's situation is not much worse than that of those living with parents in the same area. On the one hand, the institutions (e.g. the hukou system) that maintain the urban-rural inequality should be modified so that more migrants can settle down in cities with families. On the other hand, public resources in rural communities should be improved and regional inequality should be further reduced.\n\nScholars from a wide variety of fields have recommended policy changes in order to deal with the social issues created by floating populations of migrant workers in China. Some scholars believe that \"public policies reducing the cost (including the opportunity cost) of education for rural people could help filling the endowment gap between rural migrants and urban residents in the labor market.\" Additionally, scholars have recommended that \"new policy initiatives concerning the issue of education and migrant children are sorely needed.\" Public health scholars recommend that \"because health insurance schemes will remain limited for the foreseeable future, attention should focus on providing affordable health care to both uninsured migrants and the urban poor.\" In light of the migrant worker Foxconn suicides, labor scholars have recommended that \"the government should redistribute income and guarantee benefits to rural residents and migrant workers to improve living standards.\" Those studying labor mobility believe that \"the artificial restrictions under which rural-urban migrants work in the cities, i.e. the prohibition on or impediments to urban settlement, restricted access to skilled jobs, and the system of short-term contracts, may have generated an excessively high migrant mobility rate.\"\n\n The issue of internal migration and health in China is intricately linked with the health policies national and local level governments enforce. \"Policy toward rural-urban migration in China has undergone a significant shift in the last decade, and improving the working and living conditions and access to health care of migrant workers in cities is now clearly on the agenda of national and local governments. Nonetheless, migrants’ mobility and their concentration in hazardous industries continue to make it difficult to reduce their exposure to environmental and occupational health risks and to ensure their access to affordable care.\" In order to further improve the \"living conditions and acces to health care of migrant workers in cities,\" a number of scholars have recently provided policy recommendations.\n\nIn general, public health scholars recommend that \"because health insurance schemes will remain limited for the foreseeable future, attention should focus on providing affordable health care to both uninsured migrants and the urban poor.\" In light of this recommendation, further research has been conducted in order to assess the status of internal migration and health in China, as well as to provide more specific policy recommendations in order to address any issues. Research conducted by a team from Beijing Normal University and the Institute of Development Studies has provided a number of specific recommendations for policy makers. In a journal article published in The Lancet, this team voiced three primary concerns regarding the health of migrants in China. These concerns consisted of the spread of communicable and infectious disease, migrant maternal health, and occupational disease and injuries such as silicosis, chemical poisoning, and industrial machinery accidents. Beyond these three primary concerns, the researchers advise policy makers and public health officials to pay more attention to two additional issues. The first of these is mental and behavioural health, which is a \"domain that is understudied in China.\" The second issue they discuss is that of risk perception. Little is known about how migrants perceive the \"various possibilities for health care: self-medication, informal healers, traditional medicine, private clinics with varied levels of care, and more formal hospital treatment.\" Research into risk perception will \"be crucial to prevention, intervention, and other health-related measures for the migrant population in China.\n\nTwo landmark policy documents regarding migrant workers were issued in 2002 and 2003, named Document Number 2 of 2002 and Document Number 1 of 2003.These two documents initialized the process of elimination of labor market discrimination against migrant workers and legitimization of them. In addition, the 2002 Work Safety Law and the Law on the Prevention and Cure of Occupational Diseases demanded that all employers must guarantee a safe working environment for all employees. In 2004, employers in high-risk industries such as mining and construction were required to cover injury insurance for migrant workers. In the 2005 Government Work Report, Premier Wen Jiabao noted that the payment of migrant workers should not be delayed. In March 2006, the State Council called for the establishment of a system that monitored wage delivery to migrant workers. In June 2006, the State Council passed a series of measures to protect migrant workers’ labor rights, following up Circular No. 36. The measures include the restriction of minimum wages, solutions to wage defaults, enforcement of labor contacts and enlargement of migrant workers’ social security coverage. With the government's continuous efforts, the situation of migrant workers have been improved, though still varying from province to province. In 2005, 80% of migrant workers had been fully paid. In Shanghai, more than two million migrant workers are in a special social security program.\n\nEarly in 2003, China has issued an announcement on migration management and pays much attention on migrant children's education. The government mainly focused on possible financial reform, encouraged public schools to admit more migrant children, forbade extra fees and sponsored migrant-sponsored schools. The announcement noted equal access to education, elimination of sponsorship fees and the government funding for migrant-sponsored schools. In September 2003, a joint directive declared that urban governments and public schools should be responsible for migrant children's equal access to education.\n\nAlthough there are various policies related to migrant children's education, in Hu's doctoral thesis, he addresses that the policy is partially implemented and the situation varies from province to province. Policy regarding funding is not being effectively implemented. Public schools don’t have enough funding and subsequently school access is still limited. In addition, migrant parents need to present a series of certificates showing that they have stable jobs and accommodation in cities in order to get their children admitted in public schools.\n\nThe Chinese government has committed to eliminating institutional discrimination of migrant workers on the grounds of hukou system. But the reform is complicated since it involves restructuring political and social systems, which will impact every aspect including employment, social security and property rights.\n\nThe objective of the reform is to merge urban and rural hukou systems into one in which migrant workers can have equal access to public resources as urban residents do. At the beginning of the New Millennium, Fujian, Liaoning and Shandong Provinces abolished the dual-type hukou system and issued identical hukou status to both urban and rural residents. Up to 2008, twelve provinces had abolished the dual urban-rural hukou system. Due to the complication of this issue, however, it is still very difficult for migrant workers to gain access to social welfare in urban areas, though with a hukou reform. For example, some cities such as Zhengzhou once opened public schools to rural migrant children in 2002, but these cities soon realized that there were not enough schools for the large number of migrant children. According to China Daily, Huang Ming, vice-minister of public security, addressed that the national hukou reform would be done by 2020. He said in the interview that the new hukou system would gradually extend pension, education and health care services to qualified residents, both urban and rural.\n\nChina's hukou system is a social management system. This system links every Chinese resident with their birthplace. One can only access their health care, pension and education for their children in their birth city. Cai Fang, director of the Insistute of Population Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, stated that migrant workers do not have the same benefits as the urban residents. As a result of unequal benefits the migrant workers have limited participation in the labor market. Mr Cai estimates that more than 200 million migrant workers can't participate fully in the labor market due to the limitations from the Chinese hukou system.\n\nAccording to the International Labour Organization, internal migration in China is defined by two essential features. The first of these is that migrants generally move from farmlands and agricultural areas into more urban areas and developed cities. The second defining feature of Chinese internal migration is that \"labour flows are basically directed from the interior to coastal areas, and/or from central and western regions to eastern areas.\" These are not independent characteristics; \"These two features overlap, and are closely interrelated with the macro socio-economic structure.\nThe Fifth National Population Census of the People's Republic of China in 2000 counted 42.4 million people living outside of their home provinces (i.e., outside of the province where they were legally domiciled). These would include e.g. migrant workers, students on campuses away from home, but not the military (who, generally, are counted separately from the provinces' and municipalities' populations). The largest migrant population was found in Guangdong (15.0 mln). The rest of China's southeastern seaboard attracted plenty of migrants as well (Shanghai (3.1 mln), Jiangsu (2.5 mln), Zhejiang (2.0 mln), Fujian (2.1 mln)); Beijing had 2.5 million. The coastal Liaoning and Shandong, as well as the inland Yunnan and \nXinjiang had over a million migrants each.\nMigrants originated mostly in the inland provinces, such as Anhui (4.3 mln), Jiangxi (3.7 mln), Henan (3.1 mln), Hunan (4.3 mln), Hubei (2.8 mln), Guangxi (2.4 mln), Sichuan (6.9 mln).\n\nMuch of the interprovincial migration was toward the neighboring wealthier provinces or municipalities if there was one. E.g., over 90% of the Guangxi migrants went to the nearby Guangdong, while over 60% of Hebei migrants went to the Beijing and Tianjin municipalities (which both are surrounded by Hebei's territory). On the other hand, among the Hubei migrants about one half went to Guangdong, and the rest mostly to various other coastal destinations, from Beijing to Fujian.\n\nIt is of interest to the Chinese government to control the flow of internal migration in China. However, the flow of migration is large and widespread enough to be difficult for the government to manage. \"Despite the Chinese government's policy of encouraging the development of western regions of the country, China's coastal regions, and especially the province of Guangdong, experienced the largest increase in the size of the floating population. With less than 7 percent of China's population, Guangdong has 27 percent of China's floating population. The size of the floating population in Guangdong nearly tripled between the 1990 and the 2000 censuses.\" Such uneven migration can hamper the government's policy to encourage the development of non-coastal regions, which exacerbates the geographic inequality in the country.\n\nChina accepted 260,000 Vietnamese through the Orderly Departure Program although this participation is less well known than that of other countries. The Chinese government accorded the Vietnamese protection by providing them refugee status. Most refugees settled in southern China. During the time of the refugees’ integration, the Chinese government charged various agencies with examining the refugees’ background and labor skills to facilitate job placement. Following the end of the Orderly Departure Program in 1997, China continued to receive refugees although in much fewer numbers. Prior to the end of the Program and after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, Vietnamese refugees to China had already been decreasing in number.\n\nUNHCR has declared all North Koreans in China to be 'persons of concern', although China does not recognize North Koreans' claims to asylum as valid. China refuses to accept people who the country views as defectors from other Communist countries. As a result, China identifies North Koreans within its borders as “economic migrants.” Because of the Government of China does not provide assistance to migrants, the UNHCR established an office in Beijing in 1995 to provide direct assistance including food, shelter, health, education, and social services. Later, China banned the UNHCR direct access to North Koreans, claiming that the issue was an internal matter and should be treated as such. Today, advocates for North Korean defectors lobby to government officials to reverse legal jargon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52763940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52763940", "title": "Mikkeli hostage crisis", "text": "Mikkeli hostage crisis\n\nThe Mikkeli hostage crisis or Jakomäki bank robbery took place on 8th-9th August 1986, which ended dramatically in an explosion at the edge of Mikkeli Market, on Maaherrankatu near the crossroads of Raatihuoneenkatu. Helsinki-based Jorma Kalevi Takala (born July 11, 1950 in Liperi) took over three hostages in Helsinki in an bank robbery with whom he traveled by car to Mikkeli Market. The event ended when Takala blow up his car and himself and hostage driver Jukka Häkkinen (born May 13, 1961) in Mikkeli Market. This was an unprecedented crime in Finland's conditions and in its final solution. In the case of post-clearance reviews, the authorities were subjected to exceptionally harsh criticism.\n\nThe events began on August 8, when a man armed with a sawed-off shotgun and an explosive charge entered the Kansallis-Osake-Pankki bank in Jakomäki, Helsinki. He took 12 people who were in the bank as his hostages. After receiving 2.5 million Finnish marks and a getaway car in exchange for the hostages' lives, he left the bank with two female hostages and one male hostage. He forced the male hostage to drive the car. They drove to Mikkeli where they parked on a market place. The police surrounded the car and tried to negotiate with the hostage taker. Eventually the police advised the hostages to leave the car. Both female hostages escaped and after that the police started to shoot at the car. The hostage taker exploded the car, killing both himself and the male hostage.\n\nThe police received much criticism for its handling of the hostage crisis. Nobody knew who gave the order to shoot at the car and initially none of the police commanders took the responsibility for the operation. However, after an investigation by the National Bureau of Investigation, Chancellor of Justice Jorma S. Aalto decided not to prosecute the police officers for the events. In 1993, the Supreme Court of Finland convicted one police officer who had participated in the operation of negligent homicide and fined him 6.000 mk.\n\n"}
{"id": "10974038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10974038", "title": "Minica Huitoto", "text": "Minica Huitoto\n\nMinica (Mɨnɨka) Huitoto is one of three indigenous American Huitoto languages of the Witotoan family spoken by a few thousand speakers in western South America.\n\nIt is spoken in the Upper Igara-Paraná river area, along the Caquetá River at the Isla de los Monos, and the Caguán River near San Vicente del Caguán. There is 75% literacy in Colombia and 85% are literate in Spanish; most are bilingual. There is a dictionary and grammar rules.\n\nThere are only five speakers in Perú, where it has official standing within its community.\n"}
{"id": "34911447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34911447", "title": "Monarchy of Greece", "text": "Monarchy of Greece\n\nThe Monarchy of Greece () or Greek Monarchy (Ελληνική Μοναρχία) was the government in which a hereditary monarch was the sovereign of the Kingdom of Greece from 1832 to 1924 and 1935 to 1973.\n\nThe Monarch of Greece was created by the London Conference of 1832 at which the First Hellenic Republic was abolished.\n\nIn 1832 Prince Otto of Bavaria of the House of Wittelsbach was styled \"His Majesty Otto I, King of Greece\", over which he reigned for 30 years until he was deposed in 1862.\n\nA head of state referendum was held in 1862 to name a new King. Most of the Greek people wanted Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh, to be the new King. He won the referendum by 230,016 against the Duke of Leuchtenberg. Alfred declined to be King, and so did every candidate until Prince Vilhelm of Denmark of the House of Glücksburg, who had received six votes. Vilhelm was elected unanimously by the Greek Assembly, and became \"His Majesty George I, King of the Hellenes\".\n\nThere was a referendum in 1920 to restore Constantine I as monarch, but four years later the Second Hellenic Republic was established and the monarchy was abolished following a referendum in 1924. Then in 1935 the Monarchy was restored after a referendum and maintained after a referendum in 1946.\n\nIn July 1973 the Greek military junta called a 'referendum', which abolished the Monarchy for the second time in Greek history. Then in 1974, the democratically elected Prime Minister, Konstantinos Karamanlis, called a referendum which formally abolished the Monarchy.\n\nTatoi was the private residence and 10,000-acre estate outside of Athens originally bought by King George I in the 1870s. The property was seized by the Republic following the 1974 referendum and has long been a contentious issue between the former Royal Family and the Greek state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41911043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41911043", "title": "Mullazai tribe", "text": "Mullazai tribe\n\nMullazai (ملازئی) is a Baloch tribe found in Panjgur District (پنجگور) of Balochistan, Pakistan. They are known as 'Mullas' and are descendants of Mir Mulla Shehsawar, who they claim to have migrated from Iran Sarbaz in 1513AD. The Mullazai tribe numbers in Panjgur are about 200 families or about 5000 persons. Other tribes associated with the Mullazai settled in Panjgur, Mastung, Sorab, Kalat, Kharan, Quetta, Kucklak, Nushki, Dalbandin, Qandahar and Iran.\n\nMullazai in Balochi means descendants of mollas who was a religious man.\n\nTasp is largest of the Panjgur townships and has a Mullazai population numbering around 600 families. Other places where the tribe have settled include Khubadan and Kallag. There, the tribe mainly work cultivating dates, amiraris. The date groves extend in places to nearly mile away from the river. Southwest of Tasp is Sorowan and has the Khushkawa, where some of the tribe still live.\n\nThe first mosque in Panjgur was built in 1513 in Tasp By Mulla Shehsawar, an ancestor of the tribe.\n\nThe Mullazai are known as Akhoonds, Mala Zai, Mali Zai or Mollazahis Clans of the tribe include Kenagzai, Halazai, Sahibzada, Miazai, Gowarazai and Akundzai . These are the direct descendants of the tribe who left Iran and settled in Pakistan. In northern Sarbaz County it consisted of 16 Rind, clans. They included Askani, Bugani, Dagarani, Gazakandi, Gohramzai, Kahmaki, Kiazai, kolagi, Miranzai, Mollahzehi, Nohani, Perozai, Shahalzai, Shahozai, and Mahair.\nThe economy of the tribe in mainly depends on farming and engineering. Also, many of the inhabitants work in the local schools and hospitals as well as travel to work in the Royal Army of Oman.\n\nMullazai are known for the connections with the Kalat State before 1947. The annexation of Balochistan into Pakistan resulted in a turmoil in this region of Balochistan which largely affected the Mullazai tribe and it political grip, but with little impact on the socio-economic activities of the people. Agriculture is dependent on the significant local rainfall and from tube wells. Many people from Tasp also work as contractors in Oman and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThere are institutions that range from primary to high school level. There is one High School for boys and one for girls. Every year those students who pass their examinations and continue on to higher education have to do so outside the Panjgur District. A late landlord Mir Haji Ghulam Jan Mullazai hoped to promote education in the area and donated property for the use of a high school for girls and for a primary school.\n\nThe local Jirga make the local religious decisions and maintain the customs of the area based on their set of laws and principles.\n"}
{"id": "18218854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18218854", "title": "Ndam language", "text": "Ndam language\n\nNdam, also known as Dam and Ndamm, is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in the southwestern Chadian prefectures of Tandjilé and Lai. Most of the speakers generally practice traditional religions, Islam, or Christianity. There are two dialects of Ndam—northern and southern, respectively—Ndam Dik, and Ndam-Ndam.\n"}
{"id": "53107891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53107891", "title": "New York City Council Women's Caucus", "text": "New York City Council Women's Caucus\n\nThe Women's Caucus is a caucus of female-identified members of the New York City Council. According to the Caucus, it seeks \"to advance women's rights and promotes the goal of equality in New York CIty through influences in public policy through education, legislation, and advocacy.\" The Caucus submits an annual list of funding priority recommendations to the New York City Council Speaker's office so that the budget will address the needs of organizations serving the Caucus' constituencies.\n\nIn May 2013, the Caucus introduced a resolution at a New York City Council meeting calling for a Harriet Tubman to replace Andrew Jackson on the twenty-dollar bill, which was part of a larger nationwide initiative organized by a nonprofit called \"Women on 20s\".\n\nIn November 2016, the Caucus presented a legislative package of 11 bills and resolutions to the New York City Council addressing equal rights and opportunities for women. Issues addressed in the package included the needs of unpaid caregivers, access to feminine hygiene products, services for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, the gender pay gap, as well as others.\n\n"}
{"id": "387369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387369", "title": "Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum", "text": "Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum\n\nThe Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM), alternatively (ETM1), and formerly known as the \"Initial Eocene\" or \"\", with more than 8 °C warmer global average temperature than today. This climate event began at the time boundary of the Paleogene, between the Paleocene and Eocene geological epochs. The exact age and duration of the event is uncertain but it is estimated to have occurred around 55.5 million years ago.\n\nThe associated period of massive carbon injection into the atmosphere has been estimated to have lasted no longer than 20,000 years. The entire warm period lasted for about 200,000 years. Global temperatures increased by 5–8 °C. The carbon dioxide was likely released in two pulses, the first lasting less than 2,000 years. Such a repeated carbon release is in line with current global warming. A main difference is that during the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum, the planet was essentially ice-free. However, the amount of released carbon, according to a recent study, suggest a modest 0.2 gigatonnes per year (at peaks 0.58 gigatonnes); humans today add about 10 gigatonnes per year.\n\nThe onset of the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum has been linked to an initial 5 °C temperature rise and to extreme changes in Earth's carbon cycle. The period is marked by a prominent negative excursion in carbon stable isotope () records from around the globe; more specifically, there was a large decrease in C/C ratio of marine and terrestrial carbonates and organic carbon.\n\nStratigraphic sections of rock from this period reveal numerous other changes. Fossil records for many organisms show major turnovers. For example, in the marine realm, a mass extinction of benthic foraminifera, a global expansion of subtropical dinoflagellates, and an appearance of excursion, planktic foraminifera and calcareous nanofossils all occurred during the beginning stages of PETM. On land, modern mammal orders (including primates) suddenly appear in Europe and in North America. Sediment deposition changed significantly at many outcrops and in many drill cores spanning this time interval.\n\nAt least since 1997, the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum has become a focal point of considerable geoscience research because it probably provides the best past analog by which to understand impacts of global climate warming and of massive carbon input to the ocean and atmosphere, including ocean acidification. Although it is now widely accepted that the PETM represents a \"case study\" for global warming and massive carbon input to Earth's surface, the cause, details and overall significance of the event remain perplexing.\n\nThe configuration of oceans and continents was somewhat different during the early Paleogene relative to the present day. The Panama Isthmus did not yet connect North America and South America, and this allowed direct low-latitude circulation between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. The Drake Passage, which now separates South America and Antarctica, was closed, and this perhaps prevented thermal isolation of Antarctica. The Arctic was also more restricted. Although various proxies for past atmospheric levels in the Eocene do not agree in absolute terms, all suggest that levels then were much higher than at present. In any case, there were no significant ice sheets during this time.\n\nEarth surface temperatures increased by about 6 °C from the late Paleocene through the early Eocene, culminating in the \"Early Eocene Climatic Optimum\" (EECO). Superimposed on this long-term, gradual warming were at least two (and probably more) \"hyperthermals\". These can be defined as geologically brief (<200,000 year) events characterized by rapid global warming, major changes in the environment, and massive carbon addition. Of these, the PETM was the most extreme and perhaps the first (at least within the Cenozoic). Another hyperthermal clearly occurred at approximately 53.7 Ma, and is now called ETM-2 (also referred to as H-1, or the Elmo event). However, additional hyperthermals probably occurred at about 53.6 Ma (H-2), 53.3 (I-1), 53.2 (I-2) and 52.8 Ma (informally called K, X or ETM-3). The number, nomenclature, absolute ages, and relative global impact of the Eocene hyperthermals are the source of considerable current research. Whether they only occurred during the long-term warming, and whether they are causally related to apparently similar events in older intervals of the geological record (e.g. the Toarcian turnover of the Jurassic) are open issues.\n\nAcidification of deep waters, and the later spreading from the North Atlantic can explain spatial variations in carbonate dissolution. Model simulations show acidic water accumulation in the deep North Atlantic at the onset of the event.\n\nAt the start of the PETM, average global temperatures increased by approximately 6 °C (11 °F) within about 20,000 years. This warming was superimposed on \"long-term\" early Paleogene warming, and is based on several lines of evidence. There is a prominent (>1‰) negative excursion in the of foraminifera shells, both those made in surface and deep ocean water. Because there was a paucity of continental ice in the early Paleogene, the shift in very probably signifies a rise in ocean temperature.\nThe temperature rise is also supported by analyses of fossil assemblages, the Mg/Ca ratios of foraminifera, and the ratios of certain organic compounds, such as TEX.\n\nPrecise limits on the global temperature rise during the PETM and whether this varied significantly with latitude remain open issues. Oxygen isotope and Mg/Ca of carbonate shells precipitated in surface waters of the ocean are commonly used measurements for reconstructing past temperature; however, both paleotemperature proxies can be compromised at low latitude locations, because re-crystallization of carbonate on the seafloor renders lower values than when formed. On the other hand, these and other temperature proxies (e.g., TEX) are impacted at high latitudes because of seasonality; that is, the “temperature recorder” is biased toward summer, and therefore higher values, when the production of carbonate and organic carbon occurred.\n\nCertainly, the central Arctic Ocean was ice-free before, during, and after the PETM. This can be ascertained from the composition of sediment cores recovered during the Arctic Coring Expedition (ACEX) at 87°N on Lomonosov Ridge. Moreover, temperatures increased during the PETM, as indicated by the brief presence of subtropical dinoflagellates, and a marked increase in TEX. The latter record is intriguing, though, because it suggests a 6 °C (11 °F) rise from ~ before the PETM to ~ during the PETM. Assuming the TEX record reflects summer temperatures, it still implies much warmer temperatures on the North Pole compared to the present day, but no significant latitudinal amplification relative to surrounding time.\n\nThe above considerations are important because, in many global warming simulations, high latitude temperatures increase much more at the poles through an ice-albedo feedback. It may be the case, however, that during the PETM, this feedback was largely absent because of limited polar ice, so temperatures on the Equator and at the poles increased similarly.\n\nClear evidence for massive addition of C-depleted carbon at the onset of the PETM comes from two observations. First, a prominent negative excursion in the carbon isotope composition () of carbon-bearing phases characterizes the PETM in numerous (>130) widespread locations from a range of environments. Second, carbonate dissolution marks the PETM in sections from the deep sea.\n\nThe total mass of carbon injected to the ocean and atmosphere during the PETM remains the source of debate. In theory, it can be estimated from the magnitude of the negative carbon isotope excursion (CIE), the amount of carbonate dissolution on the seafloor, or ideally both. However, the shift in the across the PETM depends on the location and the carbon-bearing phase analyzed. In some records of bulk carbonate, it is about 2‰ (per mil); in some records of terrestrial carbonate or organic matter it exceeds 6‰. \nCarbonate dissolution also varies throughout different ocean basins. It was extreme in parts of the north and central Atlantic Ocean, but far less pronounced in the Pacific Ocean.\nWith available information, estimates of the carbon addition range from about 2000 to 7000 gigatons.\n\nModel simulations of peak carbon addition to the ocean–atmosphere system during the PETM give a probable range of 0.3–1.7 Pg C/yr, which is much slower than the currently observed rate of carbon emissions. It has been suggested that today's methane emission regime from the ocean floor is potentially similar to that during the PETM.\n\nThe timing of the PETM excursion is of considerable interest. This is because the total duration of the CIE, from the rapid drop in through the near recovery to initial conditions, relates to key parameters of our global carbon cycle, and because the onset provides insight to the source of C-depleted CO.\n\nThe total duration of the CIE can be estimated in several ways. The iconic sediment interval for examining and dating the PETM is a core recovered in 1987 by the Ocean Drilling Program at Hole 690B at Maud Rise in the South Atlantic Ocean. At this location, the PETM CIE, from start to end, spans about 2 m. Long-term age constraints, through biostratigraphy and magnetostratigraphy, suggest an average Paleogene sedimentation rate of about 1.23 cm/1,000yrs. Assuming a constant sedimentation rate, the entire event, from onset though termination, was therefore estimated at about 200,000 years. Subsequently, it was noted that the CIE spanned 10 or 11 subtle cycles in various sediment properties, such as Fe content. Assuming these cycles represent precession, a similar but slightly longer age was calculated by Rohl et al. 2000. A ~200,000 duration for the CIE is estimated from models of global carbon cycling.\nIf a massive amount of C-depleted CO is rapidly injected into the modern ocean or atmosphere and projected into the future, a ~200,000 year CIE results because of slow flushing through quasi steady-state inputs (weathering and volcanism) and outputs (carbonate and organic) of carbon.\n\nThe above approach can be performed at many sections containing the PETM. This has led to an intriguing result. At some locations (mostly deep-marine), sedimentation rates must have decreased across the PETM, presumably because of carbonate dissolution on the seafloor; at other locations (mostly shallow-marine), sedimentation rates must have increased across the PETM, presumably because of enhanced delivery of riverine material during the event.\n\nAge constraints at several deep-sea sites have been independently examined using He contents, assuming the flux of this cosmogenic nuclide is roughly constant over short time periods. \nThis approach also suggests a rapid onset for the PETM CIE (<20,000 years). However, the He records support a faster recovery to near initial conditions (<100,000 years) than predicted by flushing via weathering inputs and carbonate and organic outputs.\n\nThere is other evidence to suggest that warming predated the excursion by some 3,000 years.\n\nThe climate would also have become much wetter, with the increase in evaporation rates peaking in the tropics. Deuterium isotopes reveal that much more of this moisture was transported polewards than normal.\n\nThe amount of freshwater in the Arctic Ocean increased, in part due to northern hemisphere rainfall patterns, fueled by poleward storm track migrations under global warming conditions.\n\nIn parts of the oceans, especially the north Atlantic Ocean, bioturbation was absent. This may be due to bottom-water anoxia, or by changing ocean circulation patterns changing the temperatures of the bottom water. However, many ocean basins remained bioturbated through the PETM.\n\nDespite the global lack of ice, the sea level would have risen due to thermal expansion.\nEvidence for this can be found in the shifting palynomorph assemblages of the Arctic Ocean, which reflect a relative decrease in terrestrial organic material compared to marine organic matter.\n\nAt the start of the PETM, the ocean circulation patterns changed radically in the course of under 5,000 years. Global-scale current directions reversed due to a shift in overturning from the southern hemisphere to northern hemisphere overturning. This \"backwards\" flow persisted for 40,000 years. Such a change would transport warm water to the deep oceans, enhancing further warming.\n\nThe lysocline marks the depth at which carbonate starts to dissolve (above the lysocline, carbonate is oversaturated): today, this is at about 4 km, comparable to the median depth of the oceans. This depth depends on (among other things) temperature and the amount of dissolved in the ocean. Adding initially raises the lysocline, resulting in the dissolution of deep water carbonates. This deep-water acidification can be observed in ocean cores, which show (where bioturbation has not destroyed the signal) an abrupt change from grey carbonate ooze to red clays (followed by a gradual grading back to grey). It is far more pronounced in north Atlantic cores than elsewhere, suggesting that acidification was more concentrated here, related to a greater rise in the level of the lysocline. In parts of the southeast Atlantic, the lysocline rose by 2 km in just a few thousand years.\n\nStoichiometric magnetite () particles were obtained from PETM-age marine sediments. The study from 2008 found elongate prism and spearhead crystal morphologies, considered unlike any magnetite crystals previously reported, and are potentially of biogenic origin. These biogenic magnetite crystals show unique gigantism, and probably are of aquatic origin. The study suggests that development of a thick suboxic zones with high iron bioavailability, the result of dramatic changes in weathering and sedimentation rates, drove diversification of magnetite-forming organisms, likely including eukaryotes. Biogenic magnetite is also found in human brain tissues. Biogenic magnetites in animals have a crucial role in geomagnetic field navigation.\n\nThe PETM is accompanied by a mass extinction of 35-50% of benthic foraminifera (especially in deeper waters) over the course of ~1,000 years – the group suffering more than during the dinosaur-slaying K-T extinction (e.g.,). Contrarily, planktonic foraminifera diversified, and dinoflagellates bloomed. Success was also enjoyed by the mammals, who radiated extensively around this time.\n\nThe deep-sea extinctions are difficult to explain, because many species of benthic foraminifera in the deep-sea are cosmopolitan, and can find refugia against local extinction. General hypotheses such as a temperature-related reduction in oxygen availability, or increased corrosion due to carbonate undersaturated deep waters, are insufficient as explanations. Acidification may also have played a role in the extinction of the calcifying foraminifera, and the higher temperatures would have increased metabolic rates, thus demanding a higher food supply. Such a higher food supply might not have materialized because warming and increased ocean stratification might have led to declining productivity and/or increased remineralization of organic matter in the water column, before it reached the benthic foraminifera on the sea floor (). The only factor global in extent was an increase in temperature. Regional extinctions in the North Atlantic can be attributed to increased deep-sea anoxia, which could be due to the slowdown of overturning ocean currents, or the release and rapid oxidation of large amounts of methane. Oxygen minimum zones in the oceans may have expanded.\n\nIn shallower waters, it's undeniable that increased levels result in a decreased oceanic pH, which has a profound negative effect on corals. Experiments suggest it is also very harmful to calcifying plankton. However, the strong acids used to simulate the natural increase in acidity which would result from elevated concentrations may have given misleading results, and the most recent evidence is that coccolithophores (\"E. huxleyi\" at least) become \"more\", not less, calcified and abundant in acidic waters. No change in the distribution of calcareous nanoplankton such as the coccolithophores can be attributed to acidification during the PETM. Acidification did lead to an abundance of heavily calcified algae and weakly calcified forams.\n\nHumid conditions caused migration of modern Asian mammals northward, dependent on the climatic belts. Uncertainty remains for the timing and tempo of migration.\n\nThe increase in mammalian abundance is intriguing. Increased levels may have promoted dwarfing – which may have encouraged speciation. Many major mammalian orders – including the Artiodactyla, horses, and primates – appeared and spread around the globe 13,000 to 22,000 years after the initiation of the PETM.\n\nProxy data from one of the studied sites show rapid +8 °C temperature rise, in accordance with existing regional records of marine and terrestrial environments. Notable is the absence of documented greater warming in polar regions. This implies a non existing ice-albedo feedback, suggesting no sea or land ice was present in the late Paleocene.\n\nDuring the PETM, sediments are enriched with kaolinite from a detrital source due to denudation (initial processes such as volcanoes, earthquakes, and plate tectonics). This suggests increased precipitation, and enhanced erosion of older kaolinite-rich soils and sediments. Increased weathering from the enhanced runoff formed thick paleosoil enriched with carbonate nodules (Microcodium like), and this suggests a semi-arid climate.\n\nDiscriminating between different possible causes of the PETM is difficult. Temperatures were rising globally at a steady pace, and a mechanism must be invoked to produce an instantaneous spike which may have been accentuated by positive feedbacks. The biggest aid in disentangling these factors comes from a consideration of the carbon isotope mass balance. We know the entire exogenic carbon cycle (i.e. the carbon contained within the oceans and atmosphere, which can change on short timescales) underwent a −0.2 % to −0.3 % perturbation in , and by considering the isotopic signatures of other carbon reserves, can consider what mass of the reserve would be necessary to produce this effect. The assumption underpinning this approach is that the mass of exogenic carbon was the same in the Paleogene as it is today – something which is very difficult to confirm.\n\nAlthough the cause of the initial warming has been attributed to a massive injection of carbon (CO and/or CH) into the atmosphere, the source of the carbon has yet to be found. The emplacement of a large cluster of kimberlite pipes at ~56 Ma in the Lac de Gras region of northern Canada may have provided the carbon that triggered early warming in the form of exsolved magmatic CO. Calculations indicate that the estimated 900-1,100 Pg of carbon required for the initial ~3 °C of ocean water warming associated with the Paleocene-Eocene thermal maximum could have been released during the emplacement of a large kimberlite cluster. The transfer of warm surface ocean water to intermediate depths led to thermal dissociation of seafloor methane hydrates, providing the isotopically depleted carbon that produced the carbon isotopic excursion. The coeval ages of two other kimberlite clusters in the Lac de Gras field and two other early Cenozoic hyperthermals indicate that CO degassing during kimberlite emplacement is a plausible source of the CO responsible for these sudden global warming events.\n\nTo balance the mass of carbon and produce the observed value, at least 1,500 gigatons of carbon would have to degas from the mantle via volcanoes over the course of the two, 1,000 year, steps. To put this in perspective, this is about 200 times the background rate of degassing for the rest of the Paleocene. There is no indication that such a burst of volcanic activity has occurred at any point in Earth's history. However, substantial volcanism had been active in East Greenland for around the preceding million years or so, but this struggles to explain the rapidity of the PETM. Even if the bulk of the 1,500 gigatons of carbon was released in a single pulse, further feedbacks would be necessary to produce the observed isotopic excursion.\n\nOn the other hand, there are suggestions that surges of activity occurred in the later stages of the volcanism and associated continental rifting. Intrusions of hot magma into carbon-rich sediments may have triggered the degassing of isotopically light methane in sufficient volumes to cause global warming and the observed isotope anomaly. This hypothesis is documented by the presence of extensive intrusive sill complexes and thousands of kilometer-sized hydrothermal vent complexes in sedimentary basins on the mid-Norwegian margin and west of Shetland. Volcanic eruptions of a large magnitude can impact global climate, reducing the amount of solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface, lowering temperatures in the troposphere, and changing atmospheric circulation patterns. Large-scale volcanic activity may last only a few days, but the massive outpouring of gases and ash can influence climate patterns for years. Sulfuric gases convert to sulfate aerosols, sub-micron droplets containing about 75 percent sulfuric acid. Following eruptions, these aerosol particles can linger as long as three to four years in the stratosphere. \nFurther phases of volcanic activity could have triggered the release of more methane, and caused other early Eocene warm events such as the ETM2. \nIt has also been suggested that volcanic activity around the Caribbean may have disrupted the circulation of oceanic currents, amplifying the magnitude of climate change.\n\nA 2017 study noted strong evidence of a volcanic carbon source (greater than 10,000 petagrams), associated with the North Atlantic Igneous Province.\n\nA briefly popular theory held that a C-rich comet struck the earth and initiated the warming event. A cometary impact coincident with the P/E boundary can also help explain some enigmatic features associated with this event, such as the iridium anomaly at Zumaia, the abrupt appearance of kaolinitic clays with abundant magnetic nanoparticles on the coastal shelf of New Jersey, and especially the nearly simultaneous onset of the carbon isotope excursion and the thermal maximum. Indeed, a key feature and testable prediction of a comet impact is that it should produce virtually instantaneous environmental effects in the atmosphere and surface ocean with later repercussions in the deeper ocean. Even allowing for feedback processes, this would require at least 100 gigatons of extraterrestrial carbon. Such a catastrophic impact should have left its mark on the globe. Unfortunately, the evidence put forward does not stand up to scrutiny. An unusual 9-meter-thick clay layer supposedly formed soon after the impact, containing unusual amounts of magnetite, but it formed too slowly for these magnetic particles to have been a result of the comet's impact. and it turns out they were created by bacteria. However, recent analyses have shown that isolated particles of non-biogenic origin make up the majority of the magnetic particles in the thick clay unit.\n\nA 2016 report in \"Science\" describes the discovery of impact ejecta from three marine P-E boundary sections from the Atlantic margin of the eastern U.S., indicating that an extraterrestrial impact occurred during the carbon isotope excursion at the P-E boundary. The silicate glass spherules found were identified as microtektites and microkrystites.\n\nThe combustion of prodigious quantities of peat was once postulated, because there was probably a greater mass of carbon stored as living terrestrial biomass during the Paleocene than there is today since plants in fact grew more vigorously during the period of the PETM. This theory was refuted, because in order to produce the excursion observed, over 90% of the Earth's biomass would have to have been combusted. However, the Paleocene is also recognized as a time of significant peat accumulation worldwide. A comprehensive search failed to find evidence for the combustion of fossil organic matter, in the form of soot or similar particulate carbon.\n\nThe presence of later (smaller) warming events of a global scale, such as the Elmo horizon (aka ETM2), has led to the hypothesis that the events repeat on a regular basis, driven by maxima in the 400,000 and 100,000 year eccentricity cycles in the Earth's orbit. The current warming period is expected to last another 50,000 years due to a minimum in the eccentricity of the Earth's orbit. Orbital increase in insolation (and thus temperature) would force the system over a threshold and unleash positive feedbacks.\n\nNone of the above causes are alone sufficient to cause the carbon isotope excursion or warming observed at the PETM. The most obvious feedback mechanism that could amplify the initial perturbation is that of methane clathrates. Under certain temperature and pressure conditions, methane – which is being produced continually by decomposing microbes in sea bottom sediments – is stable in a complex with water, which forms ice-like cages trapping the methane in solid form. As temperature rises, the pressure required to keep this clathrate configuration stable increases, so shallow clathrates dissociate, releasing methane gas to make its way into the atmosphere. Since biogenic clathrates have a signature of −60 ‰ (inorganic clathrates are the still rather large −40 ‰), relatively small masses can produce large excursions. Further, methane is a potent greenhouse gas as it is released into the atmosphere, so it causes warming, and as the ocean transports this warmth to the bottom sediments, it destabilizes more clathrates. It would take around 2,300 years for an increased temperature to diffuse warmth into the sea bed to a depth sufficient to cause a release of clathrates, although the exact time-frame is highly dependent on a number of poorly constrained assumptions. Ocean warming due to flooding and pressure changes due to a sea-level drop may have caused clathrates to become unstable and release methane. This can take place over as short of a period as a few thousand years. The reverse process, that of fixing methane in clathrates, occurs over a larger scale of tens of thousands of years.\n\nIn order for the clathrate hypothesis to work, the oceans must show signs of having been warmer slightly before the carbon isotope excursion, because it would take some time for the methane to become mixed into the system and -reduced carbon to be returned to the deep ocean sedimentary record. Until recently, the evidence suggested that the two peaks were in fact simultaneous, weakening the support for the methane theory. But recent (2002) work has managed to detect a short gap between the initial warming and the excursion. Chemical markers of surface temperature (TEX) also indicate that warming occurred around 3,000 years before the carbon isotope excursion, but this does not seem to hold true for all cores. Notably, deeper (non-surface) waters do not appear to display evidence of this time gap. Moreover, the small apparent change in TEX that precede the anomaly can easily (and more plausibly) be ascribed to local variability (especially on the Atlantic coastal plain, e.g. Sluijs, et al., 2007) as the TEX paleo-thermometer is prone to significant biological effects. The of benthic or planktonic forams does not show any pre-warming in any of these localities, and in an ice-free world, it is generally a much more reliable indicator of past ocean temperatures.\n\nAnalysis of these records reveals another interesting fact: planktonic (floating) forams record the shift to lighter isotope values earlier than benthic (bottom dwelling) forams. The lighter (lower ) methanogenic carbon can only be incorporated into the forams' shells after it has been oxidised. A gradual release of the gas would allow it to be oxidised in the deep ocean, which would make benthic forams show lighter values earlier. The fact that the planktonic forams are the first to show the signal suggests that the methane was released so rapidly that its oxidation used up all the oxygen at depth in the water column, allowing some methane to reach the atmosphere unoxidised, where atmospheric oxygen would react with it. This observation also allows us to constrain the duration of methane release to under around 10,000 years.\n\nHowever, there are several major problems with the methane hydrate dissociation hypothesis. The most parsimonious interpretation for surface-water forams to show the excursion before their benthic counterparts (as in the Thomas et al. paper) is that the perturbation occurred from the top down, and not the bottom up. If the anomalous (in whatever form: CH or CO) entered the atmospheric carbon reservoir first, and then diffused into the surface ocean waters, which mix with the deeper ocean waters over much longer time-scales, we would expect to observe the planktonics shifting toward lighter values before the benthics. Moreover, careful examination of the Thomas et al. data set shows that there is not a single intermediate planktonic foram value, implying that the perturbation and attendant anomaly happened over the lifespan of a single foram – much too fast for the nominal 10,000-year release needed for the methane hypothesis to work.\n\nThere is a debate about whether there was a large enough amount of methane hydrate to be a major carbon source; a recent paper proposed that was the case. The present-day global methane hydrate reserve is poorly constrained, but is mostly considered to be between 2,000 and 10,000 Gt. However, because the global ocean bottom temperatures were ~6 °C higher than today, which implies a much smaller volume of sediment hosting gas hydrate than today, the global amount of hydrate before the PETM has been thought to be much less than present-day estimates. in a 2006 study, scientists regarded the source of carbon for the PETM to be a mystery. A 2011 study, using numerical simulations suggests that enhanced organic carbon sedimentation and methanogenesis could have compensated for the smaller volume of hydrate stability.\n\nA 2016 study based on reconstructions of atmospheric CO content during the PETM's carbon isotope excursions (CIE), using triple oxygen isotope analysis, suggests a massive release of seabed methane into the atmosphere, and the driver of climatic changes. The authors also note:\nThe large scale patterns of ocean circulation are important when considering how heat was transported through the oceans. Our understanding of these patterns is still in a preliminary stage. Models show that there are possible mechanisms to quickly transport heat to the shallow, clathrate-containing ocean shelves, given the right bathymetric profile, but the models cannot yet match the distribution of data we observe. \"Warming accompanying a south-to-north switch in deepwater formation would produce sufficient warming to destabilize seafloor gas hydrates over most of the world ocean to a water depth of at least 1900 m.\" This destabilization could have resulted in the release of more than 2000 gigatons of methane gas from the clathrate zone of the ocean floor.\n\nArctic freshwater input into the North Pacific could serve as a catalyst for methane hydrate destabilization, an event suggested as a precursor to the onset of the PETM.\n\nClimate proxies, such as ocean sediments (depositional rates) indicate a duration of ∼83 ka, with ∼33 ka\nin the early rapid phase and ∼50 ka in a subsequent gradual phase.\n\nThe most likely method of recovery involves an increase in biological productivity, transporting carbon to the deep ocean. This would be assisted by higher global temperatures and levels, as well as an increased nutrient supply (which would result from higher continental weathering due to higher temperatures and rainfall; volcanoes may have provided further nutrients). Evidence for higher biological productivity comes in the form of bio-concentrated barium. However, this proxy may instead reflect the addition of barium dissolved in methane. Diversifications suggest that productivity increased in near-shore environments, which would have been warm and fertilized by run-off, outweighing the reduction in productivity in the deep oceans.\n\n"}
{"id": "4533719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4533719", "title": "Palestinian Jews", "text": "Palestinian Jews\n\nPalestinian Jews were Jewish inhabitants of Palestine (known in Hebrew as \"Eretz Israel\", the \"Land of Israel\") prior to the establishment of the modern state of Israel.\n\nThe common term for the Jewish community of Ottoman Syria during the 19th century, and British Palestine prior to the establishment of the State of Israel is \"Yishuv\" (\"settlement\"). A distinction is drawn between the \"New Yishuv\", largely composed of and descended from immigrants after the First Aliyah in 1881, and the \"Old Yishuv\", the pre-existing Jewish community of Palestine prior to the First Aliyah.\n\nIn addition to applying to Jews who lived in Palestine during the British Mandate era, the term \"Palestinian Jews\" has also been applied to Jewish residents of Southern Syria, the southern part of the Ottoman province of Syria, and there are scholarly instances of referring to the Jews of the Palaestina Prima and Palaestina Secunda provinces (4th to 7th centuries CE) of the Byzantine Empire in Late Antiquity as \"Palestinian Jews\".\n\nAfter the establishment of Israel in 1948, the Jews of Mandatory Palestine became Israeli citizens, and the term \"Palestinian Jews\" has largely fallen into disuse and is somewhat defunct, in favor of the term Israeli Jews. \n\nPrior to dismemberment of the Ottoman Empire, the population of the area comprising modern Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza Strip was not exclusively Muslim. Under the Empire's rule in the mid-16th century, there were no more than 10,000 Jews in Palestine, making up around 5% of the population. By the mid-19th century, Turkish sources recorded that 80% of the population of 600,000 was identified as Muslim, 10% as Christian Arab and 5–7% as Jewish.\n\nThe situation of the Jewish community in Palestine was more complicated than in neighbouring Arab countries. Whereas in Yemen, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, communities were largely homogeneous in ethnic and confessional terms, in Palestine in the 19th century, Jewish pilgrims and European Christian colonial projects attracted large numbers of Ashkenazi immigrants from Eastern Europe and Sephardic groups from Bulgaria, Turkey and North Africa. The Jews of Palestine were not exclusively of Iberian origins, and included substantial Yiddish speaking communities who had established themselves in Palestine centuries earlier. \n\nTowards the end of the Ottoman era in Palestine, native Jewish communities lived primarily in the four 'holy cities' of Safed, Tiberias, Hebron and Jerusalem. The Jewish population consisted of Ashkenazim (Judeo-German speakers) and Sephardim, the latter of which could be further subdivided as Sephardim proper (Judeo-Spanish speakers) and Maghrebim (North African Arabic speakers) or Mizrahim (Middle Eastern Jews, comparable to the Arabic term \"Mashriqiyyun\", or Easterners). The majority of Jews in the four holy cities, with the exception of Jerusalem, were Arabic and Judaeo-Spanish speakers. The dominant language among Jews in Jerusalem was Yiddish, due to the large migration of pious Ashkenazi Jews from Russia and Eastern Europe. Still, in 1882, there were 7,620 Sephardim in Jerusalem, of whom 1,290 were Maghrebim, from the Maghreb or North Africa. Natives of the city, they were Turkish subjects, and fluent in Arabic. Arabic also served as the \"lingua franca\" between the Sephradim/Mizrahim/Maghrebim and Ashkenazim and their non-Jewish Arab counterparts in mixed cities like Safed and Hebron. However, during the Greek and Roman period, the primary language of Palestinian Jews was Aramaic, a Semitic language closely related to Hebrew. \n\nIn the narrative works of Arabs in Palestine in the late Ottoman period, as evidenced in the autobiographies and diaries of Khalil al-Sakakini and Wasif Jawhariyyeh, \"native\" Jews were often referred to and described as \"abnaa al-balad\" (sons of the country), 'compatriots', or \"Yahud awlad Arab\" (Jews, sons of Arabs). When the First Palestinian Congress of February 1919 issued its anti-Zionist manifesto rejecting Zionist immigration, it extended a welcome to those Jews \"among us who have been Arabicized, who have been living in our province since before the war; they are as we are, and their loyalties are our own.\"\n\nEuropean Jews were commonly considered an \"Oriental\" people in many of their host countries, usually as reference to their ancestral origins in the Middle East. A prominent example of this is Immanuel Kant, an (18th-century Prussian philosopher) who referred to European Jews as \"Palestinians living among us.\"\n\nOfficial documents released in April 2013 by the State Archive of Israel show that days before the establishment of the State of Israel in May 1948, Jewish officials were still debating about what the new country would be called in Arabic: Palestine (Filastin), Zion (Sahyoun) or Israel (Isra’il). Two assumptions were made: \"That an Arab state was about to be established alongside the Jewish one in keeping with the UN’s partition resolution the year before, and that the Jewish state would include a large Arab minority whose feelings needed to be taken into account\". In the end, the officials rejected the name Palestine because they thought that would be the name of the new Arab state and could cause confusion so they opted for the most straightforward option: Israel.\n\nThe Palestinian National Charter, as amended by the PLO's Palestinian National Council in July 1968, defined \"Palestinians\" as \"those Arab nationals who, until 1947, normally resided in Palestine regardless of whether they were evicted from it or stayed there. Anyone born, after that date, of a Palestinian father—whether in Palestine or outside it—is also a Palestinian. The Jews who had normally resided in Palestine until the beginning of the Zionist invasion will be considered Palestinians.\"\nYaakov Meir (born in 1856 in Jerusalem), the first Sephardic Chief Rabbi appointed in Mandatory Palestine, preferred not to use the term \"Palestinian Jew\" due to his Zionist affiliations. He spoke fluent Hebrew and encouraged the construction of new Jewish quarters of Jerusalem as well as the re-establishment of an Independent Israeli Jewish State.\nBen-Zion Meir Hai Uziel (Born in 1880 in Jerusalem), was the Sephardi chief rabbi of Mandatory Palestine from 1939 to 1948, and of Israel from 1948 to 1954. He served as a Mizrahi delegate to the Zionist Congress from 1925-46. As a religious Zionist, he strongly believed in the redemption of Israel and bringing the Jewish exiles back to the land to create a religious Jewish state of Israel. As a strong supporter of Israeli nationalism, in his writing \"The Redemption of Israel\" he wrote: \"We all desire that the in gathering of the exiles should take place from all areas where they have been scattered; and that our holy language will be upon our lips and upon the lips of our children, in building the Land and its flowering through the hands and work of Israel; and we will all strive to see the flag of freedom and redemption waving in glory and strength upon the walls of Jerusalem.\"\n\nMordechai Eliyahu (Born in Jerusalem March 3, 1929 – June 7, 2010) was a prominent rabbi, posek and spiritual leader. He served as the Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel from 1983 to 1993. Because Eliyahu was one of the spiritual leaders of the Religious Zionist movement he refused to use the term \"Palestinian\" and believed all Jews should refrain from using the term. He was an outspoken opponent of the Gaza Disengagement of 2005 and supported Jewish settlements in Gaza and the West Bank (Judea and Samaria). He was considered somewhat controversial for his decades-long support of the radical right of the Religious Zionist movement. Eliyahu was a friend of Rabbi Meir Kahane and his family.\n\nUri Davis, an Israeli citizen, academic, activist and observer-member in the Palestinian National Council living in the Arab town of Sakhnin, identified himself as an \"anti-Zionist Palestinian Hebrew\". Davis explained, \"I don’t describe myself as a Palestinian Hebrew, but I actually happen to be a Palestinian Hebrew, I was born in Jerusalem in 1943 in a country called Palestine and the title of my birth certificate is 'Government of Palestine'. That is neither here nor there, though. It is significant only in a political context in which I am situated, and the political context that is relevant to my work, my advocacy of a critique of Zionism. I'm an anti-Zionist.\" He has since converted to Islam in 2008 to marry a Palestinian Muslim woman Miyassar Abu Ali whom he met in 2006. Since then he no longer considers himself Jewish.\n\nTali Fahima, an Israeli pro-Palestinian activist, describes her nationality as Palestinian. Fahima was born in Kiryat Gat, a development town in the south of Israel, to a family of Algerian Jewish origin. Fahima lives in the Arab village Ar'ara in northern Israel, and works as a Hebrew teacher. In June 2010, it was reported that she converted to Islam at a mosque in Umm al-Fahm.\n\nThe actor, director and activist Juliano Mer-Khamis, the son of an Israeli Jewish mother and a Palestinian father, described himself in a 2009 interview with Israel Army Radio as \"100 percent Palestinian Arab and 100 percent Jewish\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46670409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46670409", "title": "Pan African Forum of Civil Societies", "text": "Pan African Forum of Civil Societies\n\nPan African Forum of Civil Societies is a Division of the Tanzania Social Support Foundation that is dedicated to strengthening the capacity of Civil Societies from all (54) fifty four African Countries. It was established on 9 May 2015 at Mtwara, Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "32632788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32632788", "title": "Privacy by design", "text": "Privacy by design\n\nPrivacy by design is an approach to systems engineering initially developed by Ann Cavoukian and formalized in a joint report on privacy-enhancing technologies by a joint team of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario (Canada), the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research in 1995. The privacy by design framework was published in 2009 and adopted by the International Assembly of Privacy Commissioners and Data Protection Authorities in 2010. Privacy by design calls for privacy to be taken into account throughout the whole engineering process. The concept is an example of value sensitive design, i.e., to take human values into account in a well-defined manner throughout the whole process and may have been derived from this.\n\nCavoukian's approach to privacy has been criticized as being vague, difficult to enforce its adoption, difficult to apply to certain disciplines, as well as prioritizing corporate interests over consumers' interests and placing insufficient emphasis on minimizing data collection.\n\nThe European GDPR regulation incorporates privacy by design.\n\nThe privacy by design framework was developed by Dr. Ann Cavoukian, Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario, following her joint work with the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research in 1995.\nIn 2009, the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario co-hosted an event, \"Privacy by Design: The Definitive Workshop\", with the Israeli Law, Information and Technology Authority at the 31st International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioner (2009).\n\nIn 2010 the framework achieved international acceptance when the International Assembly of Privacy Commissioners and Data Protection Authorities unanimously passed a resolution on privacy by design recognising it as an international standard at their annual conference. Among other commitments, the commissioners resolved to promote privacy by design as widely as possible and foster the incorporation of the principle into policy and legislation.\n\nGermany released a statute (§ 3 IV TDDG) back in July 1997. The new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) includes ‘data protection by design’ and ‘data protection by default’, the second foundational principle of privacy by design. Canada’s Privacy Commissioner included privacy by design in its report on \"Privacy, Trust and Innovation – Building Canada’s Digital Advantage\". In 2012, U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) recognized privacy by design as one of its three recommended practices for protecting online privacy in its report entitled \"Protecting Consumer Privacy in an Era of Rapid Change\", and the FTC included privacy by design as one of the key pillars in its \"Final Commissioner Report on Protecting Consumer Privacy\". In Australia, the Commissioner for Privacy and Data Protection for the State of Victoria (CPDP) has formally adopted privacy by design as a core policy to underpin information privacy management in the Victorian public sector. The UK Information Commissioner’s Office website highlights privacy by design and data protection by design and default. In October 2014, the Mauritius Declaration on the Internet of Things was made at the 36th International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners and included privacy by design and default. The Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data, Hong Kong held an educational conference on the importance of privacy by design.\n\nIn the private sector, Sidewalk Toronto commits to privacy by design principles; Brendon Lynch, Chief Privacy Officer at Microsoft, wrote an article called \"Privacy by Design at Microsoft\"; whilst Deloitte relates certifiably trustworthy to privacy by design.\n\nPrivacy by design is based on seven \"foundational principles\":\n\n\nThe principles have been cited in over five hundred articles referring to the \"Privacy by Design in Law, Policy and Practice\" white paper by Ann Cavoukian.\n\nThe privacy by design approach is characterized by proactive rather than reactive measures. It anticipates and prevents privacy invasive events before they happen. Privacy by design does not wait for privacy risks to materialize, nor does it offer remedies for resolving privacy infractions once they have occurred — it aims to prevent them from occurring. In short, privacy by design comes before-the-fact, not after.\nPrivacy by design seeks to deliver the maximum degree of privacy by ensuring that personal data are automatically protected in any given IT system or business practice. If an individual does nothing, their privacy still remains intact. No action is required on the part of the individual to protect their privacy — it is built into the system, by default.\n\nPrivacy by design is embedded into the design and architecture of IT systems as well as business practices. It is not bolted on as an add-on, after the fact. The result is that privacy becomes an essential component of the core functionality being delivered. Privacy is integral to the system without diminishing functionality.\n\nPrivacy by design seeks to accommodate all legitimate interests and objectives in a positive-sum “win-win” manner, not through a dated, zero-sum approach, where unnecessary trade-offs are made. Privacy by design avoids the pretense of false dichotomies, such as privacy versus security, demonstrating that it is possible to have both.\n\nPrivacy by design, having been embedded into the system prior to the first element of information being collected, extends securely throughout the entire lifecycle of the data involved — strong security measures are essential to privacy, from start to finish. This ensures that all data are securely retained, and then securely destroyed at the end of the process, in a timely fashion. Thus, privacy by design ensures cradle-to-grave, secure lifecycle management of information, end-to-end.\n\nPrivacy by design seeks to assure all stakeholders that whatever the business practice or technology involved, it is in fact, operating according to the stated promises and objectives, subject to independent verification. Its component parts and operations remain visible and transparent, to users and providers alike. Remember, trust but verify.\n\nAbove all, privacy by design requires architects and operators to keep the interests of the individual uppermost by offering such measures as strong privacy defaults, appropriate notice, and empowering user-friendly options. Keep it user-centric.\n\nThe International Organization for Standardization (ISO) approved the Committee on Consumer Policy (COPOLCO) proposal for a new ISO standard: \"Consumer Protection: Privacy by Design for Consumer Goods and Services\" (ISO/PC317). The standard will aim to specify the design process to provide consumer goods and services that meet consumers’ domestic processing privacy needs as well as the personal privacy requirements of data protection. The standard has the UK as secretariat with thirteen participating members and twenty observing members.\n\nThe Standards Council of Canada (SCC) is one of the participating members, and has established a mirror Canadian committee to ISO/PC317. \n\nThe OASIS Privacy by Design Documentation for Software Engineers (PbD-SE) Technical Committee provides a specification to operationalize privacy by design in the context of software engineering. Privacy by design, like security by design, is a normal part of the software development process and a risk reduction strategy for software engineers. The PbD-SE specification translates the PbD principles to conformance requirements within software engineering tasks, and helps software development teams to produce artifacts as evidence of PbD principle adherence. Following the specification facilitates the documentation of privacy requirements from software conception to retirement, thereby providing a plan around adherence to privacy by design principles, and other guidance to privacy best practices, such as NIST’s 800-53 Appendix J (NIST SP 800-53) and the Fair Information Practice Principles (FIPPs) (PMRM-1.0).\n\nPrivacy by design originated from privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) in a joint 1995 report by Ann Cavoukian and John Borking. In 2007 the European Commission provided a memo on PETs. In 2008 the British Information Commissioner's Office commissioned a report titled \"Privacy by Design – An Overview of Privacy Enhancing Technologies\".\n\nThere are many facets to privacy by design, including software and systems engineering as well as administrative elements (e.g. legal, policy, procedural), other organizational controls and operating contexts. Privacy by design evolved from early efforts to express fair information practice principles directly into the design and operation of information and communications technologies. In his publication \"Privacy by Design: Delivering the Promises\" Peter Hustinx acknowledges the key role played by Ann Cavoukian and John Borking, then Deputy Privacy Commissioners, in the joint 1995 publication \"Privacy-Enhancing Technologies: The Path to Anonymity\". This 1995 report focussed on exploring technologies that permit transactions to be conducted anonymously.\n\nPrivacy-enhancing technologies allow online users to protect the privacy of their personally identifiable information (PII) provided to (and handled by) services or applications. Privacy by design evolved to consider the broader systems and processes in which PETs were embedded and operated. The U.S. Center for Democracy & Technology (CDT) in \"The Role of Privacy by Design in Protecting Consumer Privacy\" distinguishes PET from privacy by design noting that “PETs are most useful for users who already understand online privacy risks. They are essential user empowerment tools, but they form only a single piece of a broader framework that should be considered when discussing how technology can be used in the service of protecting privacy.”\n\nThe privacy by design framework attracted academic debate, particularly following the 2010 International Data Commissioners resolution, these provide criticism of privacy by design with suggestions by legal and engineering experts to better understand how to apply the framework into various contexts.\n\nPrivacy by design has been critiqued as \"vague\" and leaving \"many open questions about their application when engineering systems\". \n\nIn 2007, researchers at K.U. Leuven published \"Engineering Privacy by Design\" noting that “The design and implementation of privacy requirements in systems is a difficult problem and requires translation of complex social, legal and ethical concerns into systems requirements”. The authors claim that their statement regarding that the principles of privacy by design \"remain vague and leave many open questions about their application when engineering systems\", may be viewed as criticism. However, the purpose of the paper is to propose that \"starting from data minimization is a necessary and foundational first step to engineer systems in line with the principles of privacy by design\". The objective of their paper is to provide an \"initial inquiry into the practice of privacy by design from an engineering perspective in order to contribute to the closing of the gap between policy makers’ and engineers’ understanding of privacy by design\". \n\nIt has also been pointed out that privacy by design is similar to voluntary compliance schemes in industries impacting the environment, and thus lacks the teeth necessary to be effective, and may differ per company. In addition, the evolutionary approach currently taken to the development of the concept will come at the cost of privacy infringements because evolution implies also letting unfit phenotypes (privacy-invading products) live until they are proven unfit. Some critics have pointed out that certain business models are built around customer surveillance and data manipulation and therefore voluntary compliance is unlikely.\n\nIn 2011, the Danish National It and Telecom Agency published as discussion paper on \"New Digital Security Models\" the publication references \"Privacy by Design\" as a key goal in creating a security model that is compliant with \"Privacy by Design\". This is done by extending the concept to \"Security by Design\" with an objective of balancing anonymity and surveillance by eliminating identification as much as possible. \n\nIn 2013, Rubenstein and Good used Google and Facebook privacy incidents to conduct a counterfactual analysis in order to identify lessons learned of value for regulators when recommending privacy by design. The first was that “more detailed principles and specific examples” would be more helpful to companies. The second is that “usability is just as important as engineering principles and practices”. The third is that there needs to be more work on “refining and elaborating on design principles–both in privacy engineering and usability design”. including efforts to define international privacy standards. The final lesson learned is that “regulators must do more than merely recommend the adoption and implementation of privacy by design”.\n\nAnother criticism is that current definitions of privacy by design do not address the methodological aspect of systems engineering, such as using decent system engineering methods, e.g. those which cover the complete system and data life cycle. The concept also does not focus on the role of the actual data holder but on that of the system designer. This role is not known in privacy law, so the concept of privacy by design is not based in law. This, in turn, undermines the trust by data subjects, data holders and policy-makers.\n\nThe advent of GDPR with its maximum fine of 4% of global turnover now provides a balance between business benefit and turnover, and addresses the voluntary compliance criticism and requirement from Rubenstein and Good that “regulators must do more than merely recommend the adoption and implementation of privacy by design”. Rubenstein and Good also highlighted that privacy by design could result in applications that exemplified Privacy by Design and their work was well received.\n\nThe May 2018 European Data Protection Supervisor Giovanni Buttarelli's paper \"Preliminary Opinion on Privacy by Design\" states, \"While privacy by design has made significant progress in legal, technological and conceptual development, it is still far from unfolding its full potential for the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. The following sections of this opinion provide an overview of relevant developments and recommend further efforts\". \n\nThe executive summary makes the following recommendations to EU institutions:\n\nThe EDPS will:\n\nThe European Data Protection Supervisor Giovanni Buttarelli set out the requirement to implement privacy by design in his article. The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) provided a detailed report \"Privacy and Data Protection by Design – From Policy to Engineering\" on implementation. The Summer School on real-world crypto and privacy provided a tutorial on \"Engineering Privacy by Design\". The OWASP Top 10 Privacy Risks Project for web applications that gives hints on how to implement privacy by design in practice. The OASIS Privacy by Design Documentation for Software Engineers (PbD-SE) offers a privacy extension/complement to OMG’s Unified Modeling Language (UML) and serves as a complement to OASIS’ eXtensible Access Control Mark-up Language (XACML) and Privacy Management Reference Model (PMRM).\n\n"}
{"id": "42409225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42409225", "title": "Russians in Iran", "text": "Russians in Iran\n\nIranian Russians are Russians living in Iran or Iranians of Russian descent. Russians populate various regions, but mostly in those regions which had been under direct Russian military occupation in the past, thus in Russia's sphere of influence. This was an indirect result of the outcome of the last Russo-Persian Wars. Nowadays there are Russians located in the southern regions of the country as well (such as Bushehr), where many of them work as technicians and nuclear experts, on for example the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant.\n\nAlthough the community has shrunk significantly since the Second World War, the following Iran crisis of 1946 and the Iranian Revolution, Russians are known to be living in Iran since the time of the Safavids.\n\nRussians in Iran (Persia) have a long history dating back many centuries. However, the first mass-immigration of Russians into Iran occurred in the early 20th century when hundreds of thousands of White émigrés had to flee from the Bolsheviks. Most of them landed in the north Iranian provinces of Gilan and Mazandaran, but also in the northwest and northeast, in Iranian Azerbaijan and Khorasan, where communities of their descendants still live.\n\nThe Russian community kept increasing in the northern provinces of the country, as a result of the Russian sphere of influence which was established since the Russo-Persian War of 1826-28. This influence ended some decades later with the crisis of 1946.\n\nThe once numerous Russian Orthodox community in Iran has shrunken over the years. They are mostly the descendants of Russian émigrés and the permanently accredited staff of diplomatic and trade missions.\n\nTehran's Orthodox Community traces its history to the late 16th century. Before the 1917 revolution in Russia, there had been two embassy churches in Tehran plus a belfry at the Russian cemetery. Later, both of the churches were shut and destroyed.\n\nSt. Nicholas Church, Tehran was built the 1940s on donations from Russian émigrés. It was designed by émigré architect and Iranian Army officer Nikolai Makarov. As soon as the crosses appeared on its cupolas, the half-finished church opened its doors to parishioners. There were several Orthodox priests in Tehran before the 1979 Islamic Revolution. In the early 1980s, all of them were expelled. It was not until the late 1990s that the St. Nicholas Church received its new head priest. Hieromonk Alexander Zarkeshev was appointed by the Moscow Patriarchate to serve in Tehran.\n\n"}
{"id": "1210279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1210279", "title": "Sandra Good", "text": "Sandra Good\n\nSandra Collins Good (born February 20, 1944) is a long-time member of the Manson Family and a close friend of Lynette \"Squeaky\" Fromme. Good's Manson Family nickname is \"Blue\", which was given to her by Charles Manson to represent clean air and water.\n\nShe was born in San Diego, California, the daughter of a stockbroker. Her parents divorced when she was four years old. Good attended Point Loma High School and was a member of the Student Opinion Club. Good attended California State University Sacramento, the University of Oregon and San Francisco State College off and on for seven years, but never received a degree.\n\nGood joined the Manson Family in April 1968 and a few months later went off with them when they moved to a new home at Spahn Ranch in the mountains west of Chatsworth. She was in jail with Mary Brunner for attempting to use stolen credit cards when the Tate/La Bianca murders took place, but was back at the ranch in time to get arrested during the August 16th raid.\n\nShe has a son named Ivan S. Pugh (born September 16, 1969). Various men have been named as the father, most notably Joel Pugh (June 7, 1940 – December 1, 1969), who was found dead in a London hotel room under suspicious circumstances.\n\nIn a telephone interview with WWL (AM) in New Orleans soon after Lynette Fromme's attempted assassination of Gerald Ford, Good threatened that \"a wave of assassins\" from a group that she identified as the International Peoples Court of Retribution (see ATWA) would kill or disfigure certain business executives, whom she named, as well as members of their families. Good accused the executives of polluting the environment. On September 10, 1975, in a subsequent interview with Barbara Frum of the CBC radio program \"As It Happens\", Good made similar threats against persons to avenge the killing of trees. She also did a telephone interview with Hamilton Ontario broadcaster Bob Bratina on CHML Radio. As a result, Bratina was subpoenaed to appear at the trial of Sandra Good in Sacramento, where the air-check of the interview was introduced as prosecution evidence.\n\nOn December 22, 1975, Good and another Manson devotee, Susan Murphy, were\nindicted for \"conspiracy to send threatening letters through the mail\" by a Federal Grand Jury in Sacramento in connection with death threats against more than 170 corporate executives who Good believed (see ATWA) were polluting the earth.\n\nFound guilty on March 16, 1976, Good was sentenced on April 13 to 15 years in prison.\n\nGood was paroled in early December 1985, after having served 10 years. Unlike many of the Family members, Good still professed total allegiance to Manson. A stipulation of her parole was that she could not return to California. She moved to Vermont, where she lived quietly under the name Sandra Collins (or at times, \"Blue Collins\") until 1989, when her environmental activism made the news and her identity was made public.\n\nAfter her parole ended, Good moved to Hanford, California, near Corcoran State Prison, to be closer to Manson, although she was not allowed to visit him. On January 26, 1996, she and George Stimson began a pro-Manson website on which they claimed to have a real source of Manson thought. She also supported Manson's environmental movement, ATWA (Air Trees Water Animals). The website went offline in 2001, but is archived. \n\n"}
{"id": "37056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37056", "title": "Sexual revolution", "text": "Sexual revolution\n\nThe sexual revolution, also known as a time of sexual liberation, was a social movement that challenged traditional codes of behavior related to sexuality and interpersonal relationships throughout the United States and subsequently, the wider world, from the 1960s to the 1980s. Sexual liberation included increased acceptance of sex outside of traditional heterosexual, monogamous relationships (primarily marriage). The normalization of contraception and the pill, public nudity, pornography, premarital sex, homosexuality, and alternative forms of sexuality, and the legalization of abortion all followed.\n\nThe term \"sexual revolution\" has been used since at least the late 1920s. Some early commentators believed the period of 1960–1980 was in fact the second such revolution in America, with the first during the Roaring Twenties after World War I. Indicators of non-traditional sexual behavior (e.g., gonorrhea incidence, births out of wedlock, and births to teenagers) began to rise dramatically in the mid to late 1950s. It brought about profound shifts in attitudes toward women's sexuality, homosexuality, pre-marital sexuality, and the freedom of sexual expression.\n\nPsychologists and scientists such as Wilhelm Reich and Alfred Kinsey influenced the changes. As well, changing mores were both stimulated by and reflected in literature and films, and by the social movements of the period, including the counterculture, the women's movement, and the gay rights movement. The counterculture contributed to the awareness of radical cultural change that was the social matrix of the sexual revolution.\n\nThe sexual revolution was initiated by those who shared a belief in the detrimental impact of sexual repression, a view that had previously been argued by Wilhelm Reich, D. H. Lawrence, Sigmund Freud, and the Surrealist movement. \n\nThe counterculture wanted to explore the body and mind, and free the personal self from the moral and legal sexual confines of modern America, as well as from 1940s-50s morals in general. The sexual revolution of the 1960s was grew from a conviction that the erotic should be celebrated as a normal part of life and not repressed by family, industrialized sexual morality, religion and the state.\n\nThe development of the birth control pill in 1960 gave women access to easy and reliable contraception. Another likely cause was a vast improvement in obstetrics, greatly reducing the number of women who died due to childbearing, thus increasing the life expectancy of women. A third, more indirect cause was the large number of children born in the 1940s and early 1950s all over the western world—the 'Baby Boom Generation'--many of whom would grow up in relatively prosperous and safe conditions, within a middle class on the rise and with better access to education and entertainment than ever before. By their demographic weight and their social and educational background they came to trigger a shift in society towards more permissive and informalized attitudes.\n\nThe discovery of penicillin led to significant reductions in syphilis mortality, which, in turn, spurred an increase in non-traditional sex during the mid to late 1950s.\n\nThere was an increase in sexual encounters between unmarried adults. Divorce rates were dramatically increasing and marriage rates were significantly decreasing in this time period. The number of unmarried Americans aged twenty to twenty-four more than doubled from 4.3 million in 1960 to 9.7 million in 1976. Men and women sought to reshape marriage by instilling new institutions of open marriage, mate swapping, swinging, and communal sex. \n\nSigmund Freud of Vienna believed human behavior was motivated by unconscious drives, primarily by the libido or \"Sexual Energy\". Freud proposed to study how these unconscious drives were repressed and found expression through other cultural outlets. He called this therapy \"psychoanalysis\".\n\nWhile Freud's ideas were sometimes ignored or provoked resistance within Viennese society, his ideas soon entered the discussions and working methods of anthropologists, artists and writers all over Europe, and from the 1920s in the United States. His conception of a primary sexual drive that would not be ultimately curbed by law, education or standards of decorum spelled a serious challenge to Victorian prudishness, and his theory of psychosexual development proposed a model for the development of sexual orientations and desires; children emerged from the Oedipus complex, a sexual desire towards their parent of the opposite sex. The idea of children having their parents as their early sexual targets was particularly shocking to Victorian and early 20th century society.\n\nAccording to Freud's theory, in the earliest stage of a child's psychosexual development, the oral stage, the mother's breast became the formative source of all later erotic sensation. Much of his research remains widely contested by professionals in the field, though it has spurred critical developments in the humanities.\n\nAnarchist Freud scholars Otto Gross and Wilhelm Reich (who famously coined the phrase \"Sexual Revolution\") developed a sociology of sex in the 1910s to 1930s in which the animal-like competitive reproductive behavior was seen as a legacy of ancestral human evolution reflecting in every social relation, as per the freudian interpretation, and hence the liberation of sexual behavior a mean to social revolution.\n\nThe publication of anthropologist Margaret Mead's \"Coming of Age in Samoa\" brought the sexual revolution to the public scene, as her thoughts concerning sexual freedom pervaded academia. Published in 1928, Mead's ethnography focused on the psychosexual development of Samoan adolescent children on the island of Samoa. She recorded that their adolescence was not in fact a time of \"storm and stress\" as Erikson's stages of development suggest, but that the sexual freedom experienced by the adolescents actually permitted them an easy transition from childhood to adulthood. Mead called for a change in suppression of sexuality in America, and her work directly resulted in the advancement of the sexual revolution in the 1930s.\n\nMead's findings were later criticized by anthropologist Derek Freeman, who investigated her claims of promiscuity and conducted his own ethnography of Samoan society.\n\nIn the late 1940s and early 1950s, Alfred C. Kinsey published two surveys of modern sexual behaviour. In 1948 Alfred C. Kinsey and his co-workers, responding to a request by female students at Indiana University for more information on human sexual behavior, published the book \"Sexual behaviour in the Human Male\". They followed this five years later with \"Sexual behaviour in the Human Female\". These books began a revolution in social awareness of, and public attention given to, human sexuality.\n\nIt is said that public morality severely restricted open discussion of sexuality as a human characteristic, and specific sexual practices, especially sexual behaviours that did not lead to procreation. Kinsey's books contained studies about controversial topics such as the frequency of homosexuality, and the sexuality of minors aged two weeks to fourteen years. Scientists working for Kinsey reported data which led to the conclusion that people are capable of sexual stimulation from birth. Furthermore, Kinsey's method of researching sexuality differs significantly from today's methods. Kinsey would watch his research subjects engage in sexual intercourse, sometimes engaging with his subjects as well. He would also encourage his research team to do the same, and encouraged them to engage in intercourse with him, too.\n\nThese books laid the groundwork for Masters and Johnson's life work. A study called \"Human Sexual Response\" in 1966 revealed the nature and scope of the sexual practices of young Americans.\n\nIn 1953, Chicago resident Hugh Hefner founded Playboy, a magazine which aimed to target males between the ages of 21 and 45. The coverpage and nude centerfold in the first edition featured Marilyn Monroe, then a rising sex symbol. The pictures were taken when Monroe was an unknown struggling actress and she received $50 for the photo shoot. The photographs were published without her consent and she received no further compensation from Playboy. Featuring cartoons, interviews, short fiction, Hefner \"Playboy Philosophy\" and - most crucially - half-naked female \"Playmates\" posing provocatively, the magazine became immensely successful. In 1960, Hefner decided to expand his enterprise and opened the first Playboy Club in Chicago. The private clubs, which expanded in numbers throughout the 1960s, offered relaxation for its members, who were waited on by Playboy Bunnies. While Hefner claimed his company contributed to America's more liberal attitude towards sex, others believe he simply exploited it.\n\nIn the United States in the years 1959 through 1966, bans on three books with explicit erotic content were challenged and overturned. This also occurred in the United Kingdom starting with the 1959 Obscene Publications Act and reaching a peak with the LCL court case.\n\nPrior to this time, a patchwork of regulations (as well as local customs and vigilante actions) governed what could and could not be published. For example, the United States Customs Service banned James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" by refusing to allow it to be imported into the United States. The Roman Catholic Church's \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" carried great weight among Catholics and amounted to an effective and instant boycott of any book appearing on it. Boston's Watch and Ward Society, a largely Protestant creation inspired by Anthony Comstock, made \"banned in Boston\" a national by-word.\n\nIn 1959 Grove Press published an unexpurgated version of \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\" by D. H. Lawrence. The U.S. Post Office confiscated copies sent through the mail. Lawyer Charles Rembar sued the New York City Postmaster, and won in New York and then on federal appeal.\n\nHenry Miller's 1934 novel, \"Tropic of Cancer\", had explicit sexual passages and could not be published in the United States; an edition was printed by the Obelisk Press in Paris and copies were smuggled into the United States. (, used book dealers asked $7,500 and more for copies of this edition.) In 1961 Grove Press issued a copy of the work, and dozens of booksellers were sued for selling it. The issue was ultimately settled by the U.S. Supreme Court's 1964 decision in \"Grove Press, Inc. v. Gerstein\".\n\nIn 1963 Putnam published John Cleland's 1750 novel \"Fanny Hill\". This was the turning point, because Charles Rembar appealed a restraining order against it all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court and won. In \"Memoirs v. Massachusetts\", 383 U.S. 413, the court ruled that sex was \"a great and mysterious motive force in human life\", and that its expression in literature was protected by the First Amendment.\n\nOnly books primarily appealing to \"prurient interest\" could be banned. In a famous phrase, the court said that obscenity is \"utterly without redeeming social importance\"—meaning that, conversely, any work with redeeming social importance was not obscene, even if it contained isolated passages that could \"deprave and corrupt\" some readers. This decision was especially significant, because, of the three books mentioned, \"Fanny Hill\" has by far the largest measure of content that seems to appeal to prurient interest, and the smallest measures of literary merit and \"redeeming social importance\". Whereas an expurgated version of \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\" had actually once been published, no expurgated version of \"Fanny Hill\" had ever been. By permitting the publication of \"Fanny Hill\", the U.S. Supreme Court set the bar for any ban so high that Rembar himself called the 1966 decision \"the end of obscenity\".\n\nThe court decisions that legalised the publication of \"Fanny Hill\" had an even more important effect: freed from fears of legal action, nonfiction works about sex and sexuality started to appear more often.\n\nIn 1962, Helen Gurley Brown published \"Sex and the Single Girl: The Unmarried Woman's Guide to Men, Careers, the Apartment, Diet, Fashion, Money and Men.\" The title itself would have been unthinkable a decade earlier. (In 1965 she went on to transform \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine into a life manual for young career women.)\n\nIn 1969 Joan Garrity, identifying herself only as \"J.\", published \"The Way to Become the Sensuous Woman\", with information on exercises to improve the dexterity of one's tongue and how to have anal sex.\n\nThe same year saw the appearance of Dr. David Reuben's book \"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)\". Despite the dignity of Reuben's medical credentials, this book was light-hearted in tone.\n\nIn 1970 the Boston Women's Health Collective published \"Women and Their Bodies\" (which became far better known a year later under its subsequent title \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\"). Not an erotic treatise or sex manual, the book nevertheless included frank descriptions of sexuality, and contained illustrations that could have caused legal problems just a few years earlier.\n\nAlex Comfort's \"The Joy of Sex: A Gourmet Guide to Love Making\" appeared in 1972. In later editions though, Comfort's libertinism was tamed as a response to AIDS.\n\nIn 1975 Will McBride's \"Zeig Mal!\" (Show Me!), written with psychologist Helga Fleichhauer-Hardt for children and their parents, appeared in bookstores on both sides of the Atlantic. Appreciated by many parents for its frank depiction of pre-adolescents discovering and exploring their sexuality, it scandalised others and eventually it was pulled from circulation in the United States and some other countries. It was followed in 1989 by \"Zeig Mal Mehr!\" (\"Show Me More!\").\n\nThese books had a number of things in common. They were factual and, in fact, educational. They were available to a mainstream readership. They were stacked high on the tables of discount bookstores, they were book club selections, and their authors were guests on late-night talk shows. People were seen reading them in public.\n\nEarlier books such as \"What Every Girl Should Know\" (Margaret Sanger, 1920) and \"A Marriage Manual\" (Hannah and Abraham Stone, 1939) had broken the silence in which many people, women in particular, had grown up in.\n\nBy the 1950s, in the United States, it had become rare for women to go into their wedding nights not knowing what to expect. But the open discussion of sex as pleasure, and descriptions of sexual practices and techniques, was revolutionary. There were practices which, perhaps, some had heard of. But many adults did not know for sure whether they were realities, or fantasies found only in pornographic books.\n\nThe Kinsey report revealed that these practices were, at the very least, surprisingly frequent. These other books asserted, in the words of a 1980 book by Dr. Irene Kassorla, that \"Nice Girls Do — And Now You Can Too\".\n\nTelevision, the new mass communication device of the age, along with other media outlets such as radio and magazines, could broadcast information in a matter of seconds to millions of people, while only a few wealthy people would control what millions could watch. Some modern historians have theorized that these media outlets helped to spread new ideas, which were considered radical. The struggles, skirmishes and rhetorical confrontations happening in the course of these movements also became directly visible to ordinary people in a way they would never have been before; the sense of involvement in a social and sexual shift happening in the present could rapidly win new converts and spread discussions afield. The counterculture of the 1960s was becoming well known through radio, newspapers, TV, books, music and other media by the end of the 1960s.\n\nIn 1969, \"Blue Movie\", directed by Andy Warhol, was the first adult erotic film depicting explicit sex to receive wide theatrical release in the United States. The film helped inaugurate the \"porno chic\" phenomenon in modern American culture. According to Warhol, \"Blue Movie\" was a major influence in the making of \"Last Tango in Paris\", starring Marlon Brando, and released a few years after \"Blue Movie\" was made.\n\nIn 1970, \"Mona the Virgin Nymph\" became the second film to gain wide release. The third, \"Deep Throat\", despite being rudimentary by the standards of mainstream filmmaking, achieved major box office success, following mentions by Johnny Carson on \"The Tonight Show\", and Bob Hope on television as well. In 1973, the far-more-accomplished (though still low-budget) \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" was the seventh-most-successful film of the year, and was well-received by major media, including a favorable review by film critic Roger Ebert. \n\nIn 1976, \"The Opening of Misty Beethoven\" (based on the play \"Pygmalion\" by George Bernard Shaw) was released theatrically and is considered by Toni Bentley the \"crown jewel\" of \"the golden age of porn.\"\n\nBy the mid-1970s and through the 1980s, newly won sexual freedoms were being exploited by big businesses looking to capitalize on an increasingly permissive society, with the advent of public and hardcore pornography. \n\nThe Industrial Revolution during the nineteenth century and the growth of science and technology, medicine and health care, resulted in better contraceptives being manufactured. Advances in the manufacture and production of rubber made possible the design and production of condoms that could be used by hundreds of millions of men and women to prevent pregnancy at little cost. Advances in chemistry, pharmacology, and biology, and human physiology led to the discovery and perfection of the first oral contraceptives, popularly known as \"the Pill.\" \n\nAll these developments took place alongside and combined with an increase in world literacy and decline in religious observance. Old values such as the biblical notion of \"be fruitful and multiply\" were cast aside as people continued to feel alienated from the past and adopted the lifestyles of progressive modernizing cultures.\n\nAnother contribution that helped bring about this modern revolution of sexual freedom were the writings of Herbert Marcuse and Wilhelm Reich, who took the philosophy of Karl Marx and similar philosophers.\n\nWhen speaking of sexual revolution, historians make a distinction between the first and the second sexual revolution. In the first sexual revolution (1870–1910), to caucasians, Victorian morality lost its universal appeal. However, it did not lead to the rise of a \"permissive society\". Exemplary for this period is the rise and differentiation in forms of regulating sexuality.\n\n\"No-fault\" unilateral divorce became legal and easier to obtain in many countries during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s.\n\nThe women's movement redefined sexuality, not in terms of simply pleasing men but recognizing women's sexual satisfaction and sexual desire. \"The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm\" by Anne Koedt illustrates an understanding of a women's sexual anatomy, arguing against Freud's \"assumptions of women as inferior appendage to man, and her consequent social and psychological role.\" The women's movement was able to develop lesbian feminism, freedom from heterosexual act, and freedom from reproduction. Feminist Betty Friedan published the Feminine Mystique in 1963, concerning the many frustrations women had with their lives and with separate spheres which established a pattern of inequality.\nThe Gay Rights Movement started when the Stonewall Riots of 1969 crystallized a broad grass-roots mobilization. New gay liberationist gave political meaning to \"coming out\" by extending the psychological-personal process into public life. During the 1950s the most feared thing of the homosexual culture was \"coming out\", the homosexual culture of the 1950s did everything they could to help keep their sexuality a secret from the public and everyone else in their lives, but Alfred Kinsey's research on homosexuality alleged that 39% of the unmarried male population had had at least one homosexual experience to orgasm between adolescence and old age. The \"coming out\" phenomenon helped mobilize people to live full-time as a homosexual, they no longer had to live in secret. They no longer had to sneak around and occasionally receive the sexual attention that they desire or force themselves into a heterosexual relationship in which they had no interest, and was full of lies. Brad Gooch wrote in the \"Golden Age of Promiscuity\" that the gay male community finally had reached a rich culture of \"easy sex\", sex without commitment, obligation or long-term relationships.\n\nCoinciding with second-wave feminism and the women's liberation movement initiated in the early 1960s, the sexual liberation movement was aided by feminist ideologues in their mutual struggle to challenge traditional ideas regarding female sexuality and queer sexuality. Elimination of undue favorable bias towards men and objectification of women as well as support for women's right to choose her sexual partners free of outside interference or judgement were three of the main goals associated with sexual liberation from the feminist perspective. Since during the early stages of feminism, women's liberation was often equated with sexual liberation rather than associated with it. Many feminist thinkers believed that assertion of the primacy of sexuality would be a major step towards the ultimate goal of women's liberation, thus women were urged to initiate sexual advances, enjoy sex and experiment with new forms of sexuality.\n\nThe feminist movements insisted and focused on the sexual liberation for women, both physical and psychological. The pursuit of sexual pleasure for women was the core ideology, which subsequently was to set the foundation for female independence. Although whether or not sexual freedom should be a feminist issue is currently a much-debated topic, the feminist movement overtly defines itself as the movement for social, political, and economic equality of men and women. Feminist movements are also involved the fight against sexism and since sexism is a highly complex notion, it is difficult to separate the feminist critique toward sexism from its fight against sexual oppression.\n\nThe feminist movement has helped create a social climate in which LGBT people and women are increasingly able to be open and free with their sexuality, which enabled a spiritual liberation of sorts with regards to sex. Rather than being forced to hide their sexual desires or feelings, women and LGBT people have gained and continue to gain increased freedom in this area. Consequently, the feminist movement to end sexual oppression has and continues to directly contribute to the sexual liberation movement.\n\nNevertheless, among many feminists, the view soon became widely held that, thus far, the sexual freedoms gained in the sexual revolution of the 1960s, such as the decreasing emphasis on monogamy, had been largely gained by men at women's expense. In \"[Anticlimax (book)|[Anticlimax: A Feminist Perspective on the Sexual Revolution]]\", Sheila Jeffreys asserted that the sexual revolution on men's terms contributed less to women's freedom than to their continued oppression, an assertion that has both commanded respect and attracted intense criticism. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, feminist sex wars broke out due to disagreements on pornography, on prostitution, and on BDSM, as well as sexuality in general.\nAs birth control became widely accessible, men and women began to have more choice in the matter of having children than ever before. The 1916 invention of thin, disposable latex condoms for men led to widespread affordable condoms by the 1930s; the demise of the Comstock laws in 1936 set the stage for promotion of available effective contraceptives such as the diaphragm and cervical cap; the 1960s introduction of the IUD and oral contraceptives for women gave a sense of freedom from barrier contraception. The opposition of Churches (e.g. \"Humanae vitae\") led to parallel movements of secularization and exile from religion. Women gained much greater access to birth control in the \"girls world\" decision in 1965, in the 1960s and 1970s the birth control movement advocated for the legalization of abortion and large scale education campaigns about contraception by governments.\n\nInfluenced by and exposed to the revolution in America, the UK had a similar, though smaller experience.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the new generation growing up after World War II had grown tired of the rationing and austerity of the 1940s and 1950s and the Victorian values of their elders, so the 1960s were a time of rebellion against the fashions and social mores of the previous generation.\n\nAn early inkling of changing attitudes came in 1960, when the government of the day tried unsuccessfully to prosecute Penguin Books for obscenity, for publishing the D. H. Lawrence novel \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\", which had been banned since the 1920s for what was considered racy content. The prosecution counsel Mervyn Griffith-Jones famously stood in front of the jury and asked, in his closing statement: \"Is it a book you would wish your wife or servants to read?\" When the case collapsed, the novel went on to become a bestseller, selling two million copies.\n\nThe Pill became available free of charge on the National Health Service in the 1960s, at first restricted to married women, but in 1968 its availability was extended to all women.\n\nIn 1967, laws prohibiting abortion and male homosexuality were repealed, although the age of consent for homosexual men was set at 21, in contrast to the heterosexual age of consent of 16. This is how it stayed until 1994, when the male homosexual age of consent was lowered to 18, and then equalised at 16 in 2001. Also in 2001, lesbian sex was recognised in British law for the first time ever, with an age of consent of 16.\n\nBeginning in San Francisco in the mid-1960s, a new culture of \"free love\" emerged, with thousands of young people becoming \"hippies\", inspired by Indian culture, who preached the power of love and the beauty of sex as part of ordinary life. This is part of a counterculture that continues to exist. By the 1970s, it was socially acceptable for colleges to permit co-ed housing.\n\nFree love continued in different forms throughout the 1970s and into the early 1980s, but its more assertive manifestations ended abruptly (or at least disappeared from public view) in the mid-1980s when the public first became aware of AIDS, a deadly sexually-transmitted disease.\n\nSwedish filmmakers like Ingmar Bergman and Vilgot Sjöman contributed to sexual liberation with sexually themed films that challenged conservative international standards. The 1951 film \"Hon dansade en sommar\" (\"She Danced One Summer AKA One Summer of Happiness\") (directed by Arne Mattsson) starring Ulla Jacobsson and Folke Sundquist was notable in this regard for depicting explicit nudity, including nude bathing in a lake.\n\nThis film, as well as Bergman's \"Sommaren med Monika\" (\"The Summer with Monika\", 1951) and \"Tystnaden (The Silence\", 1963), caused an international uproar, not least in the United States, where the films were charged with violating standards of decency. Vilgot Sjöman's film \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\", also created waves of international outcry, but it was very popular in the United States. Another of his films, \"491\", highlighted homosexuality among other things. \"Kärlekens språk\" (\"The Language of Love\") was an informative documentary about sex and sexual techniques that featured the first real act of sex in a mainstream film, and inevitably it caused intense debate around the world.\n\nFrom these films the concept (or catchphrase) of \"Swedish sin\" (licentiousness and seductive nudity) developed, even though Swedish society in the 1950s was still fairly conservative regarding sex, and the international concept of Swedish sexuality was and is largely exaggerated. The image of \"hot love and cold people\" emerged. Sexual liberalism was seen as part of the modernization process that, by breaking down traditional borders, would lead to the emancipation of natural forces and desires. These films caused debate there as well. The films eventually progressed the public's attitude toward sex, especially in Sweden and other northern European countries, which today tend to be more sexually liberal than others. In Sweden and nearby countries at the time, these films, by virtue of being made by directors who had established themselves as leading names in their generation, helped delegitimize the idea of habitually demanding that films should avoid overtly sexual subject matter. It proved hard to question the seriousness of purpose of Bergman, Sjöman and others, and in their wake a consciously permissive and questioning attitude to sex, nudity and \"difficult\" subject matter in film - and on TV - became the new standard framework.\n\nExplicit sex on screen and frontal nudity of men and women on stage became acceptable in many Western countries, as the twentieth century drew towards its close. Special places of entertainment offering striptease and lap dancing proliferated, and limits to 'acceptable' dress in pop/rock music and at discotheques and live music festivals, especially open-air festivals ever since the flower-power generation and Woodstock (1969), became very vague, both among performers and in the audiences or attendee crowd. The rich use of crossdressing and androgynous attributes and clothes in rock and pop stage costumes and even references to this in song lyrics, to express sexual, fashion or literary themes is also notable, from the Velvet Underground (in Lou Reed's lyrics) and the glam rock wave and onward. All of this persists in the early 21st century.\n\nIn many Western countries, nudity is used as a part of artistic or erotic performance, such as in nude body painting, sex show, striptease, Neo-Burlesque, and in adult-only public events like Folsom Street Fair, Nudes-A-Poppin', Fantasy Fest, etc.\n\nSexual character is closely linked with developments in technology, and the somewhat more open and commercial circulation of pornography was a new phenomenon at the time of the sexual revolution. Pornography operated as a form of \"cultural critique\" insofar as it transgresses societal conventions. Manuel Castells claims that the online communities, which emerged (from the 1980s) around early bulletin board systems originated from the ranks of those who had been part of the counterculture movements and alternative way of life emerging out of the sexual revolution.\n\nLynn Hunt points out that early modern \"pornography\" (18th century) is marked by a \"preponderance of female narrators\", that the women were portrayed as independent, determined, financially successful (though not always socially successful and recognized) and scornful of the new ideals of female virtue and domesticity, and not objectifications of women's bodies as many view pornography today. The sexual revolution was not unprecedented in identifying sex as a site of political potential and social culture. It was suggested during the sexual revolution that the interchangeability of bodies within pornography had radical implications for gender differences and that they could lose their meaning or at least redefine the meaning of gender roles and norms. Porn had portrayed sexual activity honestly and bluntly in fiction, on stage and in movies. It could reinforce the crudest stereotypes of sex roles, standards of beauty, and power dynamics or educate about human desire.\n\nIn 1971 \"Playboy\" stopped airbrushing pubic hair out of its centerfold picture spreads; this new addition caused the magazine to hit its all-time peak circulation of more than seven million copies in 1972 and men started having more choices when it came to magazines.\n\nIn 1972 \"Deep Throat\" became a popular movie for heterosexual couples. The movie played all over America and was the first porn movie to earn a gross of a million dollars.\n\nThe fact that pornography was less stigmatised by the end of the 1980s, and more mainstream movies depicted sexual intercourse as entertainment, was indicative of how normalised sexual revolution had become in society. Magazines depicting nudity, such as the popular \"Playboy\" and \"Penthouse\" magazines, won some acceptance as mainstream journals, in which public figures felt safe expressing their fantasies.\n\nFeminists have offered mixed responses to pornography. Some figures in the feminist movement, such as Andrea Dworkin, challenged the depiction of women as objects in these pornographic or \"urban men's\" magazines. Other feminists such as Betty Dodson went on to found the pro-sex feminist movement in response to anti-pornography campaigns.\nIn India, an organization named Indians For Sexual Liberties is advocating the legalization of the porn business in India. The organization's founder, Laxman Singh, questioned the reasoning behind deeming as illegal the depiction of legal acts.\n\nPremarital sex, which had been heavily stigmatised for some time became more widely accepted during the sexual revolution. The increased availability of birth control (and the quasi-legalisation of abortion in some places) helped reduce the chance that pre-marital sex would result in unwanted children. By the mid-1970s the majority of newly married American couples had experienced sex before marriage.\n\nThe central part of the sexual revolution was the development of relationships between unmarried adults, which resulted in earlier sexual experimentation reinforced by a later age of marriage. The counterculture and the new left were the source of this later age of marriage. Americans were attending colleges and rebelling against their parents' ideals, which caused them to marry later in age, if at all. This meant that on average, Americans were becoming more sexually experienced before they entered into monogamous relationships. The increasing divorce rate and the decreasing stigma attached to divorce during this era also contributed to sexual experimentation. By 1971, more than 75% of Americans thought that premarital sex was okay, a threefold increase from the 1950s, and the number of unmarried Americans aged twenty to twenty-four more than doubled from 1960 to 1976. Americans were becoming less and less interested in getting married and settling down and less interested in monogamous relationships. In 1971, 35% of the country said they thought marriage was obsolete.\n\nThe idea of marriage being out-of-date came from the new development of casual sex between Americans. With the development of the birth control pill and the legalization of abortion in 1973, there was little threat of unwanted children out of wedlock. Also, during this time every sexually transmitted disease was treatable; there was no incurable bacterial STDs, no AIDS.\n\nSwinger clubs were organizing in places ranging from the informal suburban home to disco-sized emporiums that promised a smorgasbord of sexual possibilities and free mouthwash. In New York City in 1977, Larry Levenson opened Plato's Retreat it was probably the closest that heterosexual America has ever gotten to the sexual frenzy of gay bathhouses. The retreat was eventually shut down in 1985 because of the constant hassle from public health authorities.\n\nPolitics in the United States has become intertwined with sexually related issues, called the \"politics of sex\". A differing view of abortion pitted pro-life activists against pro-choice activists.\n\nWomen and men who lived with each other without marriage sought \"palimony\" equal to the alimony. Teenagers assumed their right to a sexual life with whomever they pleased, and bathers fought to be topless or nude at beaches.\n\nFraenkel (1992) believes that the \"sexual revolution\", that the West supposedly experienced in the late 1960s, is indeed a misconception and that sex is not actually enjoyed freely, it is just observed in all the fields of culture; that is a kind of taboo behavior technically called \"repressive desublimation\".\n\nAmong radical feminists, the view soon became widely held that, thus far, the sexual freedoms gained in the sexual revolution of the 1960s, such as the decreasing emphasis on monogamy, had been largely gained by men at women's expense. In \"\", Sheila Jeffreys asserted that the sexual revolution on men's terms contributed less to women's freedom than to their continued oppression, an assertion that has both commanded respect and attracted intense criticism. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, feminist sex wars broke out due to disagreements on pornography, on prostitution, and on BDSM, as well as sexuality in general.\n\nAllyn argues that the sexual optimism of the 1960s waned with the economic crises of the 1970s, the massive commercialization of sex, increasing reports of child exploitation, disillusionment with the counter-culture and the New Left, and a combined left-right backlash against sexual liberation as an ideal. The discovery of herpes escalated anxieties rapidly and set the stage for the nation's panicked response to AIDS.\n\nAlthough the rate of teenage sexual activity is hard to record, the prevalence of teenage pregnancy in developed nations such as Canada and the UK have seen a steady decline since the 1990s. For example, in 1991 there were 61.8 children born per 1,000 teenage girls in the United States. By 2013, this number had declined to 26.6 births per 1,000 teenage girls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1447374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1447374", "title": "Sharchops", "text": "Sharchops\n\nThe Sharchops (, ; \"Easterner\") are the populations of mixed Tibetan, Southeast Asian and South Asian descent that mostly live in the eastern districts of Bhutan.\n\nThe Sharchops are an Indo-Mongoloid people who migrated from Assam, or possibly Burma, c. 1200 – c. 800 BC. Van Driem (1993) indicates that Sharchops are closely related to the Mönpa and that both are descendants of the indigenous pre-Tibetan (pre-Ngalop) peoples of Bhutan. Due to the societal prominence and political power of Dzongkha-speaking Bhutanese, however, Sharchops are marginalized (and sometimes persecuted) in Bhutan. The Sharchops are the largest ethnic group in Bhutan.\n\nThe Sharchops comprise most of the population of eastern Bhutan, a country whose total population in 2010 was approximately 708,500. Although they have long been the largest single ethnic group in Bhutan, the Sharchop have been largely assimilated into the culturally and politically dominant Tibetic Ngalop culture. Together, the Ngalop, Sharchop, and tribal groups constituted up to 72 percent of the population in the late 1980s, according to official Bhutanese statistics. The 1981 census claimed that Sharchops represented 30% of the population, and Ngalops approximately 17%. The World Factbook, however, estimates that the \"Bhote\" Ngalop and Sharchop ethnic groups together comprise approximately 50% of Bhutan's population, at 354,200 people. Assuming Sharchops still outnumber Ngalops at a 3:2 ratio, the total population of Sharchops in Bhutan is approximately 212,500.\n\nMost Sharchops speak Tshangla, a Tibeto-Burman language; fewer speak the Olekha language. They also learn the national language, Dzongkha. Because of their proximity to India, some speak Assamese or Hindi.\n\nTshangla is also spoken by the Monpa (Menba) national minority across the border in China, distributed in Mêdog, Nyingchi and Dirang. Tshangla is similar to the Kalaktang and Dirang languages spoken by the Monpa of Arunachal Pradesh, India.\n\nSharchop peoples practice slash-and-burn and \"tsheri\" agriculture, planting dry rice crops for three or four years until the soil is exhausted and then moving on, however the practice has been officially banned in Bhutan since 1969.\n\nMost of the Sharchops follow matrilineal lines in the inheritance of land and livestock.\n\nMost Sharchops follow Tibetan Buddhism with some elements of Bön, although those who live in the Duars follow Animism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1877222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877222", "title": "Shira language", "text": "Shira language\n\nShira is a Bantu language of Gabon.\n\nMaho (2009) considers Bwali to be a closely related language. It does not have an ISO code.\n"}
{"id": "22378837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22378837", "title": "Significance of numbers in Judaism", "text": "Significance of numbers in Judaism\n\nNumbers play an important role in Judaic ritual practices and are believed to be a means for understanding the divine. A Mishnaic textual source, Pirkei Avot 3:23, makes clear that the use of gematria is dated to at least the Tannaic period. This marriage between the symbolic and the physical found its pinnacle in the creation of the Tabernacle. The Hebrew word for symbol is \"ot\", which, in early Judaism, denoted not only a sign, but also a visible religious token of the relation between God and man. It is largely held by Jewish leadership that the numerical dimensions of the temple are a \"microcosm of creation ... that God used to create the Olamot-Universes.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "288170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288170", "title": "Temazcal", "text": "Temazcal\n\nA temazcal () is a type of sweat lodge which originated with pre-Hispanic Indigenous peoples in Mesoamerica. The word temazcal comes from the Nahuatl word (\"house of heat\"), or possibly from the Nahua words (to bathe) and (house). Temazcal in English is also written as temezcal, temascal, or temescal.\n\nIn ancient Mesoamerica it was used as part of a curative ceremony thought to purify the body after exertion such as after a battle or a ceremonial ball game. It was also used for healing the sick, improving health, and for women to give birth. It continues to be used today in Indigenous cultures of Mexico and Central America that were part of the ancient Mesoamerican region for spiritual and health reasons. It is currently being recovered by all sectors of society in Mexico and Central America and is used as a cleansing of mind, body and spirit. \n\nThe temazcal is usually a permanent structure, unlike sweat lodges in other regions. It is usually constructed from volcanic rock and cement and is usually a circular dome, although rectangular ones have been found at certain archeological sites and this shape is also used. To produce the heat, volcanic stones are heated. Volcanic stones are safe because they do not explode from the temperature. They are then placed in a pit located in the center or near a wall of the temazcal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47298700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47298700", "title": "The Interpersonal Gap", "text": "The Interpersonal Gap\n\nThe Interpersonal Gap is a model of communication developed by John L. Wallen (March 24, 1918 — July 31, 2001), an educator and a pioneer in the fields of emotional intelligence and interpersonal communication. As Chinmaya & Vargo state in their 1979 paper on Wallen “Many people who conduct interpersonal relations laboratories have been influenced by the ideas of John Wallen, a social psychologist from Portland, Oregon. He has written a number of papers which identify the sources of difficulty in communication. In these writings, Wallen focuses on the process of communication, not the underlying motives, drives, traits, attitudes, or personality characteristics of the individual. Wallen's ideas are easily understandable to laymen and professional alike.”\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard College in 1940, he earned advance degrees in psychology at Ohio State University, Harvard University and the University of Oregon. Dr. Wallen taught at the University of Maryland and Black Mountain College in North Carolina before moving to Oregon in 1948. In Oregon, he had been director of research at the Boys and Girls Society of Oregon, associate professor at Portland State College, director of the Human Relations and Development Group at Tektronix, and staff member of the Northwest Regional Educational Laboratory. He had also been president of the Oregon Psychological Association and fellow of the National Training Laboratories (NTL) Institute for Applied Behavioral Science in Washington, D.C. It was during his time in Oregon that he developed \"The Interpersonal Gap.\"\n\nAccording to Chinmaya & Vargo, “Wallen…integrated the work of many scholars including Allport (1949), Hayakawa (1964), Heider (1958), Korzybski (1958), Lewin (1926, 1948, 1951), and Rank (1941, 1968) into a systematic theory of communication.” Unfortunately, Wallen’s only known published work was the co-authored book, \"Counseling with Returned Servicemen,\" with Carl Rogers in 1946. He authored numerous unpublished papers, including \"The Interpersonal Gap\" in 1967. Wallen primarily taught his theories in academic settings (he was training educators). He did so prior to the age of computers. At the time he was of the opinion that \"if his ideas are useful, they will spread through personalized channels of communication.” Specifically, he wanted educators to feel free to mimeograph his work and distribute copies. With this in mind, he avoided publishing or copyrighting his work. While this unorthodox approach allowed educators to freely distribute his mimeographed works, it also hampered the spread of his theories outside of the circle of his immediate colleagues in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States.\n\nBeginning in the Pacific Northwest, but spreading elsewhere,\nWallen’s theories were applied extensively to training teachers and faculty in school systems through the publications of the Portland-based Northwest Regional Educational Laboratory. NWREL was directed at the time by Charles Jung. Jung was a student of Ronald Lippitt’s, who in turn was student of Kurt Lewin, the creator of the T-group and regarded by many as the father of Social Psychology and Organization Development. Lewin was a major influence on Wallen. Wallen's work was also spread through the extensive publications of another Lippitt student, Richard Schmuck, of the Center for the Advanced Study of Educational Administration at the University of Oregon.\n\n\"The Interpersonal Gap\" also became a core theory in the T-group and Organization Development methods of Robert P. Crosby, who worked closely with Dr. Wallen from 1968 to 1975. The two co-led several National Training Laboratories T-groups during that time. When Mr. Crosby founded the Leadership Institute of Seattle (LIOS) Applied Behavioral Science Graduate Program he made Wallen’s material a core requirement of the curriculum, and he did the same when founding and leading the ALCOA Corporate leadership program from 1990 to 2005. During Mr. Crosby’s Organization Development career he used the \"Interpersonal Gap\" model in numerous culture change and performance improvement initiatives, most famously during the PECO Nuclear turnaround following the shutdown Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station for human performance issues by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 1987. Crosby and his associates lead Wallen based T-groups, known as \"Tough Stuff Emotional Intelligence in the Workplace\" workshops, to this day: http://www.crosbyod.com/events/.\n\nChinmaya & Vargo conclude their paper thusly: “One of the leaders in the study of the nature and process of communication is John Wallen. John Wallen's ideas have influenced a number of human relations practitioners. The communication skills are especially valuable in that they are easily demonstrated and readily learned by almost anyone. The effects of using the skills are quickly apparent. For these reasons, the concepts presented here can be of great value to teachers, counsellors, parents, spouses, and friends.”\n\n\"The Interpersonal Gap\" highlights several core Emotional Intelligence (EQ) skills. For example, Wallen emphasized the role of the receiver when communicating rather than just the sender, counter to most models of communication. As part of the model Wallen identified four key skills (Behavioral Specifics, Feeling Description, Perception Check and Paraphrase) that became the cornerstone of the T-group based experiential training developed by Wallen colleague Robert P. Crosby.\nAccording to Wallen’s \"Interpersonal Gap\" paper, “The most basic and recurring problems in social life stem from what you intend and the actual effect of your actions on others.” As described in the self-improvement book Fight, Flight, Freeze, “Wallen’s theory is that each of us has intentions in every interaction (we intend a certain impact), we translate (or encode) our intentions into words and actions, the people we are interacting with translate (decode) our words and actions, and the decoding determines the initial emotional impact on them,” as illustrated in the following graph: \n\n\nIn Wallen’s model there is ample potential for misunderstanding at any step in the process, beginning with understanding yourself - that is, with having clarity about what impact you really want in any given interaction. Such misunderstandings are what Wallen refers to as a “gap.” As he puts it, “Interpersonal gap refers to the degree of congruence between one person’s intentions and the effect produced in the other. If the effect is what is intended, the gap has been bridged. If the effect is the opposite of what was intended, the gap has become greater.”\n\nWallen goes on to say, “We see our own actions in the light of our own intentions, but we see the other’s actions not in the light of the other person’s intentions but in the effect on us.” In other words, \"The Interpersonal Gap\" indicates that we each know ourselves by our own intentions (for example, when we have been misunderstood, we know what we meant). We know others by our interpretations. Wallen’s perspective contrasts with the dominant cultural paradigm that says “I know you by your actions.” If that were true, then the problem is \"your actions\" (i.e., the other person must change). \"The Interpersonal Gap\" in contrast points inward: if my interpretation is potentially the problem (i.e., I may have taken the other’s action differently than intended) if I change my interpretation or at least consider other possible intentions behind the same actions, I change my own reaction. To learn what the other person intended Wallen advocates using specific behavioral skills combined with a \"genuine\" intent of understanding the other(the importance of being genuine in one's intention to close gaps is one reflection of the influence of Carl Rogers on Wallen's work).\n\nIn sum, Wallen’s model postulates that we create our own reactions/emotional responses through our interpretations of others. He held that misunderstandings were the cause of most conflict, and that such conflict can be prevented or resolved through understanding the process of communication, and through situational application of specific skills.\n\nWallen identified four behavioral skills with which to close interpersonal gaps. G. Crosby described them this way:\n\n"}
{"id": "43590892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43590892", "title": "Three Great Shrines of Benzaiten", "text": "Three Great Shrines of Benzaiten\n\nThe Three Great Shrines of Benzaiten (日本三大弁天) are a group of Japanese shrines dedicated to the worship of the goddess Benzaiten. They are traditionally enumerated as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38049710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38049710", "title": "Tillage Live", "text": "Tillage Live\n\nTillage Live is the United Kingdom's largest national cultivations event (agricultural show). The show focuses on all aspects of crop establishment. It is organised each year by the Agricultural Engineers Association (AEA) on behalf of the industry. In 2012 the event attracted thousands of visitors to see around 55 exhibitors, including leading farm machinery manufacturers such as Claas, Pottinger, Lite-Trac, Opico and Kuhn, with 24 working demonstrations.\n\nThe event features agricultural equipment at work with the chance for operators to test machinery and learn about the new technologies developed by the manufacturers. It enables industry professionals to study options for cultivation and crop establishment techniques, soil management and gain CPD points for both BASIS and NRoSO (National Register of Sprayer Operators).\n\nTillage Live show takes place annually in different locations around the UK. In 2011 it took place on Wednesday 14 September near Abingdon, Oxfordshire. In 2012 it took place on Wednesday 3 October 2012 in Westfield, Haddington, East Lothian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "452375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452375", "title": "Timocracy", "text": "Timocracy\n\nA timocracy (from Greek τιμή \"timē\", \"price, worth\" and -κρατία \"-kratia\", \"rule\") in Aristotle's \"Politics\" is a state where only property owners may participate in government. The more extreme forms of timocracy, where power derives entirely from wealth with no regard for social or civic responsibility, may shift in their form and become a plutocracy where the wealthy and powerful use their power to increase their wealth.\n\nSolon introduced the ideas of \"timokratia\" as a graded oligarchy in his Solonian Constitution for Athens in the early 6th century BC. His was the first known deliberately implemented form of timocracy, allocating political rights and economic responsibility depending on membership of one of four tiers of the population. Solon defined these tiers by measuring how many bushels of produce each man could produce in a year, namely:\n\n\nN. G. L. Hammond supposes Solon instituted a graduated tax upon the upper classes, levied in a ratio of 6:3:1, with the lowest class of thetes paying nothing in taxes but remaining ineligible for elected office.\n\nAristotle later wrote in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (Book 8, Chapter 10) about three \"true political forms\" for a state, each of which could appear in corrupt form, becoming one of three negative forms. Aristotle describes timocracy in the sense of rule by property-owners: it comprised one of his true political forms. Aristotelian timocracy approximated to the constitution of Athens, although Athens exemplified the corrupted version of this form, described as democracy.\n\nIn \"The Republic\", Plato describes five regimes (of which four are unjust). Timocracy is listed as the first \"unjust\" regime. Aristocracy degenerates into timocracy when, due to miscalculation on the part of its governed class, the next generation of guardians and auxiliaries includes persons of an inferior nature (the persons with souls made of iron or bronze, as opposed to the ideal guardians and auxiliaries, who have souls made of gold and silver). A timocracy, in choosing its leaders, is \"inclining rather to the more high-spirited and simple-minded type, who are better suited for war\". The city-state of Sparta provided Plato with a real-world model for this form of government. Modern observers might describe Sparta as a totalitarian or one-party state, although the details we know of its society come almost exclusively from Sparta's enemies. The idea of militarism-stratocracy accurately reflects the fundamental values of Spartan society.\n\n3. Websters New World Dictionary \"of the American Language\" second college edition page 1490\n"}
{"id": "3680896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680896", "title": "Tsimihety people", "text": "Tsimihety people\n\nThe Tsimihety are a Malagasy ethnic group who are found in the north-central region of Madagascar. Their name means \"those who never cut their hair\", a behavior likely linked to their independence from Sakalava kingdom, located to their west, where cutting hair at the time of mourning was expected. They are found in mountainous part of the island. They are one of the largest Malagasy ethnic groups and their population estimates range between 700,000 and over 1.2 million. This estimation places them as the fourth-largest ethnicity in Madagascar.\n\nThe Tsimihety trace their origins back to the eastern coast, having migrated with their cattle to the Mandritsara plain in the 18th century as leaderless refugees fleeing the slave wars ongoing in their homeland. Soon afterward they accepted the rule of the Volafotsy, a clan associated with the Maroserana who had migrated north from Sakalava territory. Peter Wilson – a professor of Anthropology specializing on Madagascar, states that Tsimihety people do not fit the normal assumptions of anthropologists, for these people \"didn't create symbols or rituals or tribal rules\" like tribes do, but they can \"only be described negatively\" by what they didn't and don't do. They are thus not a tribe, because they lack tribal ties, lack social compact and have no hierarchical power structure within the ethnic group. Their relationships are centered around biological family and kin.\n\nThe anarchist system prevailed among the Tsimihety people before the 19th century. However, in 1823, Radama I, the Merina king, brought the entire island under one rule, including the Tsimihety, and abolished slavery.\n\nThe French colonial rule absorbed the Tsimihety in 1896, as a part of French Madagascar. The Tsimihety have been an active part of Madagascar politics ever since. Philibert Tsiranana, a Tsimihety from near Mandritsara, was the first president of the Malagasy Republic, when it became a semi-autonomous region within the French Union in 1959, and remained president for 10 years after it gained independence from France in 1960.\n\nDavid Graeber, an anthropologist specializing in the study of Anarchy systems, states the Tsimihety people exemplify one of the few historic social systems that accepted no authority and practiced anarchy:\n\nThe Tsimihety represent one of the rare examples where the culture was innately anti-government, where states Graeber, all forms of government had effectively been withdrawn even from countryside and communities. Informal consensus was the basis of local decisions, anyone behaving like a leader was considered suspicious, giving orders was wrong, expecting anyone to be responsible for or would actually do something was wrong, and even concepts such as working for a wage was morally shunned. Graeber states that ultimately, the Tsimihety were \"eventually gobbled up by the state\", gave up the utopia, as they sought economic opportunities and infrastructure.\n\nThe Tsimihety people are patrilineal, and kin relationships with the male ancestors and descendants are most important to both men and women. Their cultural conventions require extended exogamy, which coupled with high birth rates have led to their migration and high diffusion among neighboring ethnic groups. The society is also notable for the social roles expected by a Tsimihety family from a maternal uncle.\nThe language of the Tsimihety people is a dialect of the Malagasy language, a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages spoken in the Austronesian region.\n\nTsimihety society and economy, as in much of Madagascar, is primarily focused on agriculture. Rice is the staple crop, and the Tsimihety raise cattle. Working on crop land on Tuesday is fady – a taboo – among the Tsimihety. The main economic center among the Tsimihety is in Mandritsara.\n\n"}
{"id": "39660125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39660125", "title": "Women in Germany", "text": "Women in Germany\n\nThe roles of German women have changed throughout history, especially during the past few decades, during which the culture has undergone rapid change.\n\nThe traditional role of women in German society was often described by the so-called \"four Ks\" in the German language: \"Kinder\" (children), \"Kirche\" (church), \"Küche\" (kitchen), and \"Kleider\" (clothes), indicating that their main duties were bearing and rearing children, attending to religious activities, cooking and serving food, and dealing with clothes and fashion. However, their roles changed during the 20th century. After obtaining the right to vote in 1919, German women began to take on active roles previously performed by men. After the end of World War II, they were labeled as the \"Trümmerfrauen\" or \"women of the rubble\" because they took care of the \"wounded, buried the dead, salvaged belongings\", and participated in the \"hard task of rebuilding war-torn Germany by simply clearing away\" the rubble and ruins of war.\n\nAlthough conservative in many ways, Germany nevertheless differs from other German-speaking regions in Europe, being much more progressive on women's right to be politically involved, compared to neighbouring Switzerland (where women obtained the right to vote in 1971 at federal level, and at local canton level in 1990 in the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden) and Liechtenstein in 1984. In Germany, there are also strong regional differences; for instance Southern Germany (particularly Bavaria) is more conservative than other parts of Germany; while former East Germany is more supporting of women's professional life than former West Germany.\n\nFamily law in West Germany, had, until recently, assigned women a subordinate role in relation to their husbands. It was only in 1977 that legislative changes provided for gender equality in marriage.\nIn East Germany however, women had more rights, and were encouraged to participate in the labor force.\n\nIn 1977, the divorce law in West Germany underwent major changes, moving from a fault based divorce system to one that is primarily no fault. These new divorce regulations, which remain in force today throughout Germany, stipulate that a no-fault divorce can be obtained on the grounds of one year of \"de facto\" separation if both spouses consent, and three years of \"de facto\" separation if only one spouse consents. There is also provision for a \"speedy divorce\" which can be obtained on demand by either spouse, without the necessary separation period, if it is proved in court that the continuation of the marriage would constitute an unreasonable hardship for the petitioner for reasons related to the behavior of the other spouse; this exemption requires exceptional circumstances and is considered on a case-by-case basis.\n\nIn recent years, in Germany, as in other Western countries, there has been a rapid increase in unmarried cohabitation and births outside of marriage. As of 2014, 35% of births in Germany were to unmarried women.\nThere are, however, marked differences between the regions of the former West Germany and East Germany: significantly more children are born out of wedlock in eastern Germany than in western Germany: in 2012, in eastern Germany 61.6% of births were to unmarried women, but in western Germany only 28.4%.\n\nThe views on sexual self-determination, as it relates to marriage, have also changed: for instance until 1969 adultery was a criminal offense in West Germany. It was only in 1997, however, that Germany removed its marital exemption from its rape law, being one of the last Western countries to do so, after a lengthy political battle that started in the 1970s.\n\nWhile women in East Germany were encouraged to participate in the workforce, this was not the case in West Germany, where a woman's primary role was understood to be at home, taking care of her family. In recent years, more women are working for pay. Although most women are employed, many work part-time; in the European Union, only the Netherlands and Austria have more women working part-time.\nOne problem that women have to face is that mothers who have young children and want to pursue a career may face social criticism. In 2014, the governing coalition agreed to impose a 30% female quota for Supervisory board positions from 2016 onwards.\n\nCompared to other Western and even non-Western countries, Germany has a low proportion of women in business leadership roles, lower even than Turkey, Malaysia, Nigeria, Indonesia, Botswana, India. One of the reasons for the low presence of women in key positions is the social norm that considers full-time work inappropriate for women. Especially Southern Germany is conservative regarding gender roles. In 2011, José Manuel Barroso, then president of the European Commission, stated \"Germany, but also Austria and the Netherlands, should look at the example of the northern countries [...] that means removing obstacles for women, older workers, foreigners and low-skilled job-seekers to get into the workforce\".\n\nThe maternal mortality rate in Germany is 7 deaths/100,000 live births (as of 2010). The HIV/AIDS rate is 0.1% of adults (aged 15–49) – estimates of 2009.\nThe total fertility rate (TFR) in Germany is 1.44 births per woman (2016 estimates), one of the lowest in the world. Childlessness is quite high: of women born in 1968 in West Germany, 25% stayed childless.\n\nAbortion in Germany is legal during the first trimester on condition of mandatory counseling, and later in pregnancy in cases of medical necessity. In both cases there is a waiting period of 3 days.\n\nSex education in schools is mandated by law. The German Constitutional Court, and in 2011 the European Court of Human Rights, rejected complaints from several Baptist parents against Germany's mandatory school sex education.\n\n"}
{"id": "14845586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14845586", "title": "Yudjá", "text": "Yudjá\n\nThe Yudjá are an Indigenous people of Brazil, who live in the states of Mato Grosso and Pará. They live in two villages in the Xingu Indigenous Park, located near the mouth of the Maritsauá-Mitau River. They fish and raise crops, such as manioc.\n\nThe Yudjá are also known as the Iuruna, Jaruna, Yudya, Yurúna, Juruna, Yuruna, Juruhuna, Jurûna, and Geruna people.\n\nIn 2011, the Yudjá population is 348. Their population was 278 in 2001, up from a low of 37 in 1950.\n\nThe Yudjá or Jurúna language belongs to the Yurúna language family, one of the Tupian languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "508264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508264", "title": "Zambo", "text": "Zambo\n\nZambo ( ) and cafuzo () are racial terms used in the Casta caste class system of the Spanish and Portuguese empires and occasionally today to identify individuals in the Americas who are of mixed African and Amerindian ancestry (the analogous English term, \"sambo\", is considered a slur). Historically, the racial cross between enslaved African and Amerindians was referred to as a \"zambayga\", then \"zambo\", then \"sambo\". In the United States, the word \"sambo\" is thought to refer to the racial cross between an enslaved African and a white person. \n\nThe meaning of the term \"sambo\" however is contested in North America, where other etymologies have been proposed. The word most likely originated from one of the Romance languages, or Latin and its direct descendants. The feminine word is \"zamba\" (not to be confused with the Argentine Zamba folk dance, although there is some relationship in the concept).\n\nUnder the casta system of Spanish colonial America, the term originally applied to the children of one African and one Amerindian parent, or the children of two zambo parents. During this period, many other terms denoted individuals of African-Amerindian ancestry in ratios smaller or greater than the 50:50 of zambos: \"cambujo\" (zambo-Amerindian mixture) for example. Today, \"zambo\" refers to all people with significant amounts of both African and Amerindian ancestry, though it is frequently considered pejorative.\n\nThe term zambo was not formally used in Spanish writing until the seventeenth century, and often competed with other terms, including \"mulato\". African slaves began mixing with indigenous people from the beginning of their importation into Hispaniola in the early sixteenth century. Some of this mixture took place in the mines and plantations of Hispaniola, the other Spanish Caribbean islands following the introduction of sugar production in the 1520s, and also when Africans fled from these estates to unconquered indigenous regions.\n\nUnions described as producing zambos took place all throughout the Spanish colonial empire, following the pattern established in Hispaniola; and the group was generally classified among those people who were not of European ancestry. In the eighteenth century, the Spanish began producing systematic racial classifications, and zambo was defined in its final meaning.\n\nSome famous zambo groups were created by runaway or rebel Africans who mixed with or took over indigenous communities. In the unconquered regions of Esmeraldes, in what would become Ecuador, for example, a small group of shipwrecked former slaves managed to win control of the indigenous communities, eventually representing them before Spanish authorities in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries.\n\nAnother famous group of zambos were the Misquito Zambos, who originated around 1640 when a group of African slaves revolted on a slave ship, took it over and wrecked it at Cape Gracias a Dios on the border between Honduras and Nicaragua. They united with the indigenous Miskito people, and by the early eighteenth century came to dominate the kingdom, leading it on many extensive slave raids. Their alliance and protection of English speaking merchants and settlers in the area helped Great Britain find the colony of British Honduras (present day Belize).\n\nOfficially, zambos represent small minorities in the northwestern South American countries Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, and Ecuador. A small but noticeable number of zambos resulting from recent unions of Amerindian men to Afro-Ecuadorian women are not uncommon in major coastal cities of Ecuador. Prior to the rural to urban migration, the Amerindian and Afro-Ecuadorian ethnicities were mostly constrained to the Andes region and province of Esmeraldas and the Chota Valley in the province of Imbabura respectively.\n\nIn Central America, there are two indigenous-African mixed groups, the Miskito and the garifunas. The Garifuna originated from the combination of Africans who were either shipwrecked or fled from neighboring islands to St. Vincent, in the course of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. In 1797 they were deported by the English for their role in supporting France during the French Revolutionary Wars to the island of Roatan off the coast of Honduras. From there they spread up and down the coast of Central America, communities being found from Nicaragua to Belize. \n\nIn Mexico, where zambos were sometimes known as \"lobos\" (literally meaning wolves), they form a sizeable minority. According to the 2015 Intercensus Estimate, 896,829 people identified as both Afro-Mexican and Indigenous Mexican. The great majority of the country's Afro-descended population has been absorbed into the wider mestizo population. Greater concentrations can only be found in communities scattered around the southern coastal states, including Michoacán, Guerrero, Oaxaca, Campeche, Quintana Roo, Yucatán, and Veracruz, where the country's Afro-Mexicans reside.\n\nCulturally, Mexican \"lobos\" followed more Amerindian traditions rather than African influences. This acculturation also took place in Bolivia, where the Afro-Bolivian community absorbed and retained many aspects of Amerindian cultural influences, such as dress and use of the Aymara language. These communities of Afro-Bolivians reside in the \"Yungas\" region of the Bolivian department of La Paz.\n\n\n"}
