{"id": "36136919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36136919", "title": "2012 LZ1", "text": "2012 LZ1\n\nArecibo radar observations on June 19, 2012 have shown that is about in diameter and that has zero chance of impacting the Earth for at least the next 750 years.\n\nA small change of trajectory caused by Earth's gravity was predicted from the 2012 passby. The Slooh Space Camera streamed live footage of the passby over the Internet. McNaught and Astronomy magazine columnist Bob Berman hosted the broadcast. \"We love it when stuff like this happens, because it's fun to do and the public appreciates it,\" said Slooh president Patrick Paolucci. The asteroid was the same brightness as a 13th-magnitude star, too faint to be seen by the naked eye or a low-end telescope.\n\nThe next passby for was July 27, 2016 at from Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "100379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100379", "title": "Aranyani", "text": "Aranyani\n\nIn Hinduism, Aranyani is a goddess of the forests and the animals that dwell within them.\n\nAranyani has the distinction of having one of the most descriptive hymns in the \"Rigveda\" dedicated to her, in which she is described as being elusive, fond of quiet glades in the jungle, and fearless of remote places. In the hymn, the supplicant entreats her to explain how she wanders so far from the fringe of civilization without becoming afraid or lonely. She wears anklets with bells, and though seldom seen, she can be heard by the tinkling of her anklets. She is also described as a dancer. Her ability to feed both man and animals though she 'tills no lands' is what the supplicant finds most marvellous. The hymn is repeated in Taittiriya Brahmana and interpreted by the commentator of that work.\n\nAranyani bears resemblance to later day forest deities like Bonobibi in Bengal, Vanadevata in Goa and Konkan, Vanadurga in parts of South India. Her worship has declined in modern-day Hinduism, and it is rare to find a temple dedicated to Aranyani. However, there is a temple dedicated to her in Arrah, Bihar known as the Aranya Devi Temple.\n"}
{"id": "38454300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38454300", "title": "Assisted colonization", "text": "Assisted colonization\n\nAssisted colonization, also known as assisted migration or managed relocation, is the act of deliberately moving plants or animals to a different habitat. The destination habitat may have either historically held the species or it may not have hosted the species, but the habitat provides the bioclimatic requirements to support it. Assisted colonization may also supplement an existing population in a site where their numbers are dwindling. All species have some natural capacity to disperse into new habitats and adapt to change, but ongoing climate change is so rapid that many species are unable to keep pace naturally. In order to prevent extinctions, some scientists and practitioners are considering assisting the dispersal of species that have poor natural dispersal ability. This idea has sparked intense debate over the potential benefits, including avoiding many species extinctions, and the risks, including accidentally introducing new invasive species and diseases. Although the debate remains primarily conceptual with few real-world applications, scientists and land managers have already begun to consider several specific assisted colonization projects.\n\nClimate change is expected to drive many species out of parts of their current ranges while creating new suitable habitats elsewhere. In order to avoid population declines and extinction due to climate change, many species will need to adapt or colonize newly suitable areas. Using a niche modeling approach, scientists have predicted that failure to migrate or adapt would result in eventual extinction of about a quarter of the world’s species this century under moderate climate change. The natural dispersal rates of many species are far slower than those needed to keep pace with projected habitat shifts in many regions of the world. Prehistoric climatic changes have resulted in massive global extinctions, and the rate of warming projected for the near future is many times faster than changes in the past 10,000 years, likely resulting in high rates of extinction by the end of this century in the absence of management. The inability of species to migrate in response to human-caused climate change has led some to consider exploring assisted colonization as a means for preventing extinctions.\n\nAssisted colonization is a specific type of species introduction. An introduction is any act of establishing a species in a habitat it does not currently occupy. It often refers to a long-distance relocation, such as the accidental introduction of an invasive species from one continent to another, or the intentional relocation of a species in decline to a habitat where it can persist. By contrast, assisted colonization acknowledges that the natural dispersal rate of many species may be too slow to naturally respond to rapid human-caused environmental change and asks, “if this species could disperse fast enough to keep pace with the changing environment, where would it establish?” Assisted colonization practitioners consider helping the species disperse into such sites, which are often immediately adjacent to the species’ historical range. Assisted colonization thus represents a small artificial boost to an otherwise natural process, acknowledging that the threat—rapid human-caused environmental change—was produced by humans in the first place. Confusion of assisted colonization with species introduction in general—often much larger in scale and with greater risk of adverse impacts—may be the principal reason why some are reluctant to consider assisted colonization (see Controversy, below).\n\nWhen first proposed, the idea was referred to as “assisted migration”. The terminology was later criticized for being reminiscent of natural, cyclic animal migrations in response to changing seasons. It was renamed “assisted colonization,” as colonization more accurately describes the natural phenomenon that management would seek to assist. Others have sought to further distinguish this idea from any natural process by referring to it as “managed relocation.” No specific name has yet been unanimously adopted, but within the scientific and conservation community, “assisted migration,” “managed relocation,” and “assisted colonization” are often used interchangeably and are understood to refer to the same idea.\n\nEven under rapid climate change, dispersal into new areas may not be necessary for some species to persist. Instead of tracking climate shifts through space, some species may be able to survive in their present locations by developing tolerance to new conditions through acclimatization and/or adaptation. The potential for acclimatization or adaptation to allow persistence in the face of climate change varies by species and is generally poorly understood. One study determined that evolution of higher temperature tolerance in some species of amphibians and reptiles will likely occur fast enough to allow these species to survive a 3 °C temperature increase over 100 years, consistent with low- to mid-range projections of global warming. By contrast, many species, such as most temperate trees, have longer generation times and therefore may adapt more slowly; they may take thousands of years to evolve a similar increase in temperature tolerance. Adaptation this slow would be insufficient for keeping up with expected future global warming if colonization of new habitats is not an option.\n\nGenerally speaking, there are three accepted ways that assisted colonization can take place, each one of them with specific benefits and situations in which it applies. They can be defined as reintroduction, introduction and augmentation processes.\n\nIn augmentation, a population is identified with a small number of mating individuals. This can lead to many problems, including inbreeding depression, and often leads to a dwindling number of individuals. Further complicating matters, with such a small population and consistent inbreeding depression, genetic drift is of worry as well, leading to high levels of homozygosity. To combat these problems, individuals are reintroduced to the population. This can be done via \"ex situ\" breeding of individuals or by physically relocating a separate population to join the identified, problematic population.\n\nIn introduction, a species is brought to a habitat in which it has never before existed. This can be done for a number of reasons, ranging from climate change associated habitat loss to the introduction of predator species that cannot be controlled. Generally speaking, this is the type of assisted colonization that contains the most potential for harmful effects, like those described elsewhere in this article. Currently, a number of introductions of endangered populations from Australia have been made with varying degrees of success to small islands near the mainland where the only reason that the population had not dispersed before was due to the physical waterway.\n\nReintroductions involve restoring a species to its native range. The species may no longer be found there due to any number of reasons, though most common is often the introduction of predators or habitat loss due to either climate change or other human factors. This is generally done to broaden the range of threatened populations and to reconnect fragmented populations.\n\nSignificant controversy has developed around the idea of assisted colonization since it was first put forth in the scientific literature in 2007. The two sides can be separated roughly as follows. Supports generally believe that the expected benefits of assisted colonization, including saving and strengthening species, outweighs the potential harm of any project. Detractors generally believe that other conservation techniques which do not include the high risk of invasive species are not only better suited but are also more likely to succeed. This debate continues throughout the literature generally due to a lack of real-world applications and follow-ups. Though these conservation efforts are becoming increasingly common, few long term looks at their success have been conducted.\n\nPerhaps the principal concern scientists have expressed over assisted colonization is the potential for relocated species to be invasive in their new habitats, driving out native species. The fear that assisted colonization will facilitate invasions stems mostly from observations of the vast numbers of species that have become invasive outside their native ranges by (often inadvertent) introduction by humans. Although most agree that assisted colonization efforts, unlike accidental introductions, should involve detailed planning and risk assessment, for some, any threat of introducing invasive species, no matter how small, disqualifies assisted colonization as a viable management response to climate change.\n\nThose who wish to keep assisted colonization on the table often note that the vast majority of historical species invasions have resulted from continent-to-continent or continent-to-island transportation of species and that very few invasions have resulted from the comparatively short-distance, within-continent movement of species proposed for assisted colonization. For example, Mueller and Hellman reviewed 468 documented species invasions and found that only 14.7% occurred on the same continent where the species originated. Of the 14.7%, the vast majority were fish and crustaceans. Terrestrial species that became invasive on the same continent where they originated were often transported across large biogeographic barriers, such as mountain ranges. These long-distance, within-continent translocations are unlike expected uses of assisted colonization, which generally involve helping species colonize habitats immediately adjacent to their current ranges.\n\nTo identify populations at risk and locate new potential habitats, conservationists often use Niche models. These models predict the suitability of habitats in the future based on how closely their climates resemble the climate currently inhabited by the species. Though useful for describing broad trends, these models make a number of unrealistic assumptions that restrict the usefulness of their predictions. For instance, they do not consider the possibility that species may be able to develop tolerance of new climates through acclimatization or adaptation.<ref name=\"doi10.1111/j.1461-0248.2005.00792.x\"></ref> Further, they do not account for the fact that a given species may perform better (e.g., become invasive) or worse (e.g., fail to establish) in a new habitat than in its current range if the community of competitor, predator, and mutualist species is different there. Additionally, because different climate variables (e.g., minimum January temperature, average annual precipitation) rarely shift in unison, it is possible that few areas will exactly match the historical climates of species threatened by climate change. Such multi-directional climate shifts will make it especially difficult to determine the species that are at greatest risk of habitat loss due to climate change and to predict future suitable habitat. The uncertainties in predictions of future suitable habitat limits confidence in assisted colonization decisions and has led some to reject assisted colonization entirely.\n\nDespite the uncertainty inherent in predictions of future suitable habitat, some studies have demonstrated that predictions can be quite accurate. A study of Hesperia comma butterflies in Britain identified unoccupied habitat sites that were likely to support the species under a warmer climate based on their similarity to occupied sites. As the climate warmed, the butterfly colonized many of the sites; most of the sites it did not colonize were located far from existing populations, suggesting they were uncolonized because the butterfly could not reach them on its own. The data suggested that the suitable, uncolonized sites could be good targets for assisted colonization. The results suggested that if investigators can demonstrate their model makes reliable predictions with real-world data, models might be trusted for informing assisted colonization decisions.\n\nThe science is clear that climate change will drive many species extinct, and a traditional, land-preservation ethic will not prevent extinctions. Those wary of moving species instead suggest expanding networks of habitat corridors, allowing species to naturally migrate into newly suitable areas. Under the rates of climate change projected for the coming decades, however, even perfectly connected habitats will probably be insufficient. Species that cannot naturally keep pace with shifting climates will be at risk regardless of habitat connectivity. Evidence suggests that slowly evolving and slowly dispersing species (including species that are dispersal-limited due to habitat fragmentation) will decline or go extinct in the absence of assisted colonization programs.\n\nIn their rejection of assisted colonization, Ricciardi and Simberloff cite the precautionary principle, stating that any unknown risk, no matter how small, of assisted colonization resulting in the creation of new invasive species is enough to require that it not be undertaken. Many scientists reject this position, however, noting that in many cases where extinctions due to climate change are likely, the risks of extinction from not facilitating colonization are probably far worse than the risks of facilitating colonization. They argue that the precautionary principle cuts both ways, and the risks of inaction must be compared against the risks of action. Others note that the ethics of assisting colonization will depend on the values of the stakeholders involved in a specific decision rather than the position of scientists on assisted colonization in general. At the very least, some note, scientists should conduct further research into assisted colonization and improve our capacity to predict specific outcomes instead of outright rejecting it.\n\nBecause confidence in expected outcomes is often greater in the short-term (e.g., 20 years) than the long-term future, it may be more reasonable to use short-term projections to guide actions. However, it is also important to consider whether the climate will remain suitable long enough for colonizing species to mature and reproduce, if that is the management goal.\n\nDue to climate change, accidental species introductions, and other global changes, there is nowhere on the planet free of human disturbance. Thus, the idea that land managers should refrain from creating human-altered communities through assisted colonization may be moot given that all communities have been altered by humans to some degree whether managers undertake assisted colonization or not. Given the reality of global change, it will be impossible to maintain past ecological communities indefinitely. Many therefore believe we should strive to maintain biodiversity and functioning ecosystems in the face of climate change, even if it means actively moving species beyond their native ranges. In the absence of assisted colonization, climate change is already causing many highly mobile species, such as butterflies, to colonize areas they have not previously inhabited. Through assisted colonization, managers could help rare or less-mobile species keep pace, possibly preventing future extinctions due to a their inability to colonize new areas fast enough. Though some argue that nature often responds to challenges more effectively in the absence of human intervention, others note that current climate change, itself, is a human intervention. Many species that would have been effective dispersers under slower, natural climate change may be left behind by more mobile species under current rates of human-caused climate change. Thus, through changing the climate, humans may already be artificially segregating species even without actively relocating them.\n\nCritics may also have major concerns about different genetic issues when considering assisted colonization such as maladaptation to novel environmental conditions and hybridization with similar species. These often depend on the genetic structure and level of genetic variation in the source populations. The environmental conditions in which these populations are being introduced must also be taken into account. In order to enhance genetic variation, and thus adaptive potential, material could be sourced from multiple populations. This is known as composite provenancing. However, if the environmental gradient is well known, such as predictable changes in elevation or aridity, source populations should be ‘genetically matched’ to recipient sites as best as possible to ensure that the translocated individuals ae not maladapted. This strategy of moving species beyond their current range has been suggested for those that are severely threatened or endangered. By moving them outside their native range, hopefully the immediate threats of predation, disease, and habitat loss can be avoided. However, these species are usually already suffering from some sort of genetic issue resulting from low effective population size such as inbreeding depression, loss in genetic diversity, or maladaptation. Therefore, caution must be taken with what few individuals remain and rapid population growth must be the primary goal. In the case of some species, this can be accomplished with a captive breeding program \n\nThe British Columbia Ministry of Forests, Lands, and Natural Resource Operations has acknowledged that climate change will likely threaten the health of the millions of trees that are planted in the province every year, with potential environmental and economic consequences:\nApproximately 300 million tree seedlings are planted in the western USA, British Columbia (BC) and Yukon each year. Many climatologists are predicting that the climate could be 3–4°C warmer when those trees are harvested 60-80 years after planting. These changes to climate will expose trees to increased stress and health risks, compromising the many goods and services from our forests.\n\nIn response to this threat, the Ministry has initiated a large-scale study to determine the long-term health of seedlings of 16 tree species planted beyond their native ranges, into areas expected to become suitable due to changes in climate this century. Results from the study will be used to develop guidelines for when and how assisted colonization of trees should be conducted.\n\nIn 2009, British Columbia also altered guidelines for selecting seeds for replanting forests after a timber harvest. Previously, foresters were required to use seeds from within 200 meters downhill and 300 meters uphill, but the new policy allows foresters to obtain seeds from up to 500 meters downhill, taking advantage of the fact that populations in warmer habitats downhill may be better adapted to the future climate of the restoration site.\n\nAlthough not actively engaging in assisted colonization, the Dixon National Tallgrass Prairie Seed Bank seeks to collect seeds from populations of species expected to decline or disappear due to climate change. They prioritize collections from populations at greatest risk of disappearance and for which suitable habitat is projected to occur elsewhere in the general region, keeping open the possibility of using collected seeds for assisted colonization projects in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "57546599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57546599", "title": "Bacterial evolution", "text": "Bacterial evolution\n\nBacterial evolution may refer to the biological evolution of bacteria as studied in:\n"}
{"id": "16303617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16303617", "title": "Bird atlas", "text": "Bird atlas\n\nA bird atlas is an ornithological work that attempts to provide information on the distribution, abundance, long-term change as well as seasonal patterns of bird occurrence and make extensive use of maps. They often involve a large numbers of volunteers to cover a wide geographic area and the methods used are standardized so that the studies can be continued in the future and the results remain comparable. In some cases the species covered may be restricted to those that breed or are resident. Migration atlases on the other hand cover migratory birds depict maps showing summaries of ringing and recoveries.\n\nBird atlases vary in methodology but they always involve spatial (locations) and temporal (time) components. A typical bird atlas project collates data on bird presence or abundance with mapping of this information over a significant geographical region over a well-defined period of time. Data gathered in other efforts, such as breeding bird surveys and eBird, may also contribute to atlas projects.\n\nThe earliest published mapping of biodiversity in the form of an atlas was completed for the flora of Britain - Atlas of the British Flora (1962) The first bird atlas, the \"Atlas of breeding birds of the West Midlands\", covered Staffordshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire (England) and was published by Collins for the West Midland Bird Club, in 1970., It built on work done by the Club and its subsequent president, Tony Norris, for its \"West Midland Bird Distribution Survey\", circulated privately in 1951, which mapped frequency of sightings and breeding densities against districts based on the boundaries of Rural District Councils. The British Trust for Ornithology published updated atlases, covering Britain and Ireland, in 1993 and 2013. The West Midlands atlas influenced and was followed by the 1976 \"Atlas of Breeding Birds in Britain and Ireland\". In the US, the first breeding bird atlas to be published was for the State of Vermont. In the decades that followed a number of atlases have been made all over the world and by 2008 atlases had summarised as many as 27.9 million records of birds gathered by at least 108000 contributors, over an area covering roughly 31.4% of the world's land. While early atlases focused on merely the presence or absence of species and evidence of their breeding, there is an increasing trend towards those that indicate abundance or relative abundance.\n\nIn the oldest and most popular sampling approach, the region to be covered is gridded and volunteers are expected to visit representative locations within each grid cell and gather data that is subsequently collated. The method of collecting data, time and season in which to obtain the sample information are pre-decided as part of a protocol. In some cases the numbers and species of birds that are found to be breeding are recorded, others may use timed point sampling or transects within the grid cells to obtain quantitative estimates of abundance. In some countries the grid cells follow the latitudes and longitudes - cell intervals of 1 degree, 30 and 15 minutes are often chosen for convenience. In higher latitudes where such an approaches leads to grid cells with large differences in area, sizes are more often fixed using grid distances of 1, 2, 5, 10 or even 50 km grid intervals. The Oregon Breeding Bird Atlas addressed this by using hexagonal survey units, which cover a spherical surface such as the earth without changing size The hexagons, each with an area of 435 square kilometers, also contained a survey unit of 25 square kilometers. A disadvantage with grids of any type is that boundaries rarely match those of habitats, making them unsuitable for ecological studies. Another problem is that the data collected in one project cannot be readily reused with new grid alignments that may be needed for instance when combining information with other projects. Repeat atlases made after a decade or two have helped in identifying long term range changes. The North American Ornithological Atlas Committee (NORAC) published English and Spanish versions of a \"Handbook for Atlasing North American Breeding Birds.\" \n\nAnother approach that does not need pre-defined grids makes use of the coordinates of individual points. Coordinates may be determined from maps or using GPS devices, and the point densities can be interpolated to generate grid or contour maps. The Summer Atlas of North American Birds (1995) is one such example that makes use of such point data (not using grids) collected by the North American Breeding Bird Surveys. Others such as the EPOQ atlas for Quebec in Canada use 'trip lists', lists of birds seen at a place on a trip. A problem in atlas projects is the unequal distribution of available observers resulting in some grid cells having too few visits. Sometimes it is possible to make corrections for the differences in the sampling effort. Reporting rates are often used as a simple quantitative indicator.\n\nSome authors note the distinction between the published \"atlas\" (usually a book but sometimes are web based systems or CD-ROM as was the case for Oregon) and the actual atlas data. The data itself cannot be recovered back from published atlases for alternate applications unless made separately available as an electronic database. Depending on the methodology used, there can be multiple applications for atlas data.\n\nAtlases at a minimum, have an educational and recreational value. They provide information on the current distributions of birds and may be used by birdwatchers to assess the importance of their own observation records, learn more about species, or to plan trips. Distribution maps in atlases are usually far more accurate and detailed than those in field guides.\n\nAtlases document distributions and populations for conservation and research. Species distribution ranges are important in assessing conservation criteria. Patterns of sympatry and allopatry are better observed when measures of relative abundance are also collected. When atlas projects are repeated over time it is possible to note changes in distribution. Reasons for change may be sought to identify causes when these changes are significant. Ecological niche models may be built to identify factors that are significant in influencing the occurrence of species. Many studies have examined the distributions of rare species and have noted that they often do not occur in species-rich areas. Studies using atlas data have helped in identifying key sites for conservation. Atlas data has also been used to identify biogeographic zones.\n\nAtlases have helped in resolving taxonomic problems. DNA studies had shown that the two 'subspecies' of \"Eupodotis afra\" were distinct. The southern African atlas was able to demonstrate that these two 'subspecies' were disjunct in distribution except for a small area of overlap. The earlier distribution maps (made using what has been termed the 'shade-the-triangle' method) were totally misleading.\n\nAtlas projects can involve several countries. The Southern African Bird Atlas Project (SABAP) was started in 1986 with data gathered from six countries: Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. This resulted in a published book form atlas in 1997 and the database held seven million distribution records. It has been used by planners, conservationists, researchers and for ecotourism apart from being used in over fifty research papers and eight academic dissertations.\n\nBird atlases can also serve as a guide for more detailed research. Atlas data can be used to develop sampling and survey designs for intensive studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "37658998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37658998", "title": "Brazilea", "text": "Brazilea\n\nBrazilea is an extinct genus of algae. The species \"Brazilea helby\" and \"Brazilea scissa\" were located in outcrop \"Morro do Papaléo\" in the town of Mariana Pimentel, the geopark Paleorrota. The outcrop (Itararé Subgroup) dates to the Sakmarian of the Permian.\n"}
{"id": "1709106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1709106", "title": "C4MIP", "text": "C4MIP\n\nCMIP (more fully, Coupled Climate Carbon Cycle Model Intercomparison Project) is a joint project between the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP)and the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP). It is a model intercomparison project along the lines of the Atmospheric Model Intercomparison Project, but for global climate models that include an interactive carbon cycle .\n\n"}
{"id": "2405272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2405272", "title": "Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy", "text": "Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy\n\nCoherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy, also called Coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering spectroscopy (CARS), is a form of spectroscopy used primarily in chemistry, physics and related fields. It is sensitive to the same vibrational signatures of molecules as seen in Raman spectroscopy, typically the nuclear vibrations of chemical bonds. Unlike Raman spectroscopy, CARS employs multiple photons to address the molecular vibrations, and produces a coherent signal. As a result, CARS is orders of magnitude stronger than spontaneous Raman emission. CARS is a third-order nonlinear optical process involving three laser beams: a pump beam of frequency ω, a Stokes beam of frequency ω and a probe beam at frequency ω. These beams interact with the sample and generate a coherent optical signal at the anti-Stokes frequency (ω+ω-ω). The latter is resonantly enhanced when the frequency difference between the pump and the Stokes beams (ω-ω) coincides with the frequency of a Raman resonance, which is the basis of the technique's intrinsic vibrational contrast mechanism.\n\nCoherent Stokes Raman spectroscopy (CSRS pronounced as \"scissors\") is closely related to Raman spectroscopy and lasing processes. It is very similar to CARS except it uses an anti-Stokes frequency stimulation beam and a Stokes frequency beam is observed (the opposite of CARS).\n\nIn 1965, a paper was published by two researchers of the Scientific Laboratory at the Ford Motor Company, P. D. Maker and R. W. Terhune, in which the CARS phenomenon was reported for the first time. Maker and Terhune used a pulsed ruby laser to investigate the third order response of several materials. They first passed the ruby beam of frequency ω through a Raman shifter to create a second beam at ω-ω, and then directed the two beams simultaneously onto the sample. When the pulses from both beams overlapped in space and time, the Ford researchers observed a signal at ω+ω, which is the blue-shifted CARS signal. They also demonstrated that the signal increases significantly when the difference frequency ω between the incident beams matches a Raman frequency of the sample. Maker and Terhune called their technique simply 'three wave mixing experiments'. The name coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy was assigned almost ten years later, by Begley et al. at Stanford University in 1974. Since then, this vibrationally sensitive nonlinear optical technique has been commonly known as CARS.\n\nThe CARS process can be physically explained by using either a classical oscillator model or by using a quantum mechanical model that incorporates the energy levels of the molecule. Classically, the Raman active vibrator is modeled as a (damped) harmonic oscillator with a characteristic frequency of ω. In CARS, this oscillator is not driven by a single optical wave, but by the difference frequency (ω-ω) between the pump and the Stokes beams instead. This driving mechanism is similar to hearing the low combination tone when striking two different high tone piano keys: your ear is sensitive to the difference frequency of the high tones. Similarly, the Raman oscillator is susceptible to the difference frequency of two optical waves. When the difference frequency ω-ω approaches ω, the oscillator is driven very efficiently. On a molecular level, this implies that the electron cloud surrounding the chemical bond is vigorously oscillating with the frequency ω-ω. These electron motions alter the optical properties of the sample, i.e. there is a periodic modulation of the refractive index of the material. This periodic modulation can be probed by a third laser beam, the probe beam. When the probe beam is propagating through the periodically altered medium, it acquires the same modulation. Part of the probe, originally at ω will now get modified to ω+ω-ω, which is the observed anti-Stokes emission. Under certain beam geometries, the anti-Stokes emission may diffract away from the probe beam, and can be detected in a separate direction.\n\nWhile intuitive, this classical picture does not take into account the quantum mechanical energy levels of the molecule. Quantum mechanically, the CARS process can be understood as follows. Our molecule is initially in the ground state, the lowest energy state of the molecule. The pump beam excites the molecule to a virtual state. A virtual state is not an eigenstate of the molecule and it can not be occupied but it does allow for transitions between otherwise unoccupied real states. If a Stokes beam is simultaneously present along with the pump, the virtual state can be used as an instantaneous gateway to address a vibrational eigenstate of the molecule. The joint action of the pump and the Stokes has effectively established a coupling between the ground state and the vibrationally excited state of the molecule. The molecule is now in two states at the same time: it resides in a coherent superposition of states. This coherence between the states can be probed by the probe beam, which promotes the system to a virtual state. Again, the molecule cannot stay in the virtual state and will fall back instantaneously to the ground state under the emission of a photon at the anti-Stokes frequency. The molecule is no longer in a superposition, as it resides again in one state, the ground state. In the quantum mechanical model, no energy is deposited in the molecule during the CARS process. Instead, the molecule acts like a medium for converting the frequencies of the three incoming waves into a CARS signal (a parametric process). There are, however, related coherent Raman processes that occur simultaneously which do deposit energy into the molecule.\n\nCARS is often compared to Raman spectroscopy as both techniques probe the same Raman active modes. Raman can be done using a single continuous wave (CW) laser whereas CARS requires (generally) two pulsed laser sources. The Raman signal is detected on the red side of the incoming radiation where it might have to compete with other fluorescent processes. The CARS signal is detected on the blue side, which is free from fluorescence, but it comes with a non-resonant contribution. \nThe differences between the signals from Raman and CARS (there are many variants of both techniques) stems largely from the fact that Raman relies on a spontaneous transition whereas CARS relies on a coherently driven transition. The total Raman signal collected from a sample is the incoherent addition of the signal from individual molecules. It is therefore linear in the concentration of those molecules and the signal is emitted in all directions. The total CARS signal comes from a coherent addition of the signal from individual molecules. For the coherent addition to be additive, phase-matching must be fulfilled. For tight focusing conditions this is generally not a restriction. Once phase-matching is fulfilled the signal amplitude grows linearly with distance so that the power grows quadratically. This signal forms a collimated beam that is therefore easily collected. The fact that the CARS signal is quadratic in the distance makes it quadratic with respect to the concentration and therefore especially sensitive to the majority constituent. The total CARS signal also contains an inherent non-resonant background. This non-resonant signal can be considered as the result of (several) far off-resonance transitions that also add coherently. The resonant amplitude contains a phase shift of π radians over the resonance whereas the non-resonant part does not. The spectroscopic line shape of the CARS intensity therefore resembles a Fano profile which is shifted with respect to the Raman signal. To compare the spectra from multi-component compounds, the (resonant) CARS spectral amplitude should be compared to the Raman spectral intensity. \n\nTheoretically Raman spectroscopy and CARS spectroscopy are equally sensitive as they use the same molecular transitions. However, given the limits on input power (damage threshold) and detector noise (integration time), the signal from a single transition can be collected much faster in practical situations (a factor of 10) using CARS. Imaging of known substances (known spectra) is therefore often done using CARS. \nGiven the fact that CARS is a higher order nonlinear process, the CARS signal from a single molecule is larger than the Raman signal from a single molecule for a sufficiently high driving intensity. However, at very low concentrations, the advantages of the coherent addition for the CARS signal are reduced and the presence of the incoherent background becomes an increasing problem.\n\nSince CARS is such a nonlinear process there are not really any 'typical' experimental numbers. One example is given below under the explicit warning that just changing the pulse duration by one order of magnitude changes the CARS signal by three orders of magnitude. The comparison should only be used as an indication of the order of magnitude of the signals. 200 mW average power input (CW for the Raman), in a 0.9NA objective with a center wavelength around 800 nm, constitutes a power density of 26 MW/cm, (focus length = 1.5 micrometre, focus volume = 1.16 micrometre, photon energy = 2.31×10 J or 1.44 eV). The Raman cross section for the vibration of the aromatic ring in Toluene around 1000 cm is on the order of 10cm/molecule·steradian. Therefore, the Raman signal is around 26×10 W/molecule·steradian or 3.3×10 W/molecule (over 4π steradians). That is 0.014 photon/sec·molecule. The density of Toluene = 0.8668×10 kg/m, Molecular mass = 92.14×10 kg/mol. Therefore, the focal volume (~1 cubic micrometre) contains 6×10 molecules. Those molecules together generate a Raman signal in the order of 2×10 W (20 pW) or roughly one hundred million photons/sec (over 4π steradians). A CARS experiment with similar parameters (150 mW at 1064 nm, 200 mW at 803.5 nm, 15ps pulses at 80 MHz repetition frequency, same objective lens) yields roughly 17.5×10 W (on the 3000 cm line, which has 1/3 of the strength and roughly 3 times the width). This CARS power is roughly 10 higher than the Raman but since there are 6×10 molecules, the signal per molecule from CARS is only 4×10 W/molecule·s or 1.7×10 photons/molecule·s. If we allow two factors of three (line strength and line width) then the spontaneous Raman signal per molecule still exceeds the CARS per molecule by more than two orders of magnitude. The coherent addition of the CARS signal from the molecules however yields a total signal that is much higher than the Raman.\n\nThe sensitivity in many CARS experiments is not limited by the detection of CARS photons but rather by the distinction between the resonant and non-resonant part of the CARS signal.\n\nCoherent Stokes Raman spectroscopy (CSRS pronounced as \"scissors\") is a form of spectroscopy used primarily in chemistry, physics and related fields. It is closely related to Raman spectroscopy and lasing processes. It is very similar to Raman spectroscopy but involves a lasing process that dramatically improves the signal.\n\nIt is very similar to the more common CARS except it uses an anti-Stokes frequency stimulation beam and a Stokes frequency beam is observed (the opposite of CARS). This is disadvantageous because anti-stokes processes must start in a less populated excited state.\n\nCARS is used for species selective microscopy and combustion diagnostics. The first exploits the selectivity of vibrational spectroscopy whereas the latter is aimed at temperature measurements; the CARS signal is temperature dependent. The strength of the signal scales (non-linearly) with the difference in the ground state population and the vibrationally excited state population. Since the population of states follows the temperature dependent Boltzmann Distribution, the CARS signal carries an intrinsic temperature dependence as well. This temperature dependence makes CARS a popular technique for monitoring the temperature of hot gases and flames. More recently, CARS has been utilized as a method for non-invasive imaging of lipids in biological samples, both \"in vivo\" and \"in vitro\". Moreover, RP-CARS, a particular implementation of the Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy microscopy, is used to study myelin and myelopathies.\nFinally, CARS-based detectors for roadside bombs are under development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170350", "title": "Desert climate", "text": "Desert climate\n\nThe desert climate (in the Köppen climate classification \"BWh\" and \"BWk\", sometimes also \"BWn\"), also known as an arid climate, is a climate in which there is a excess of evaporation over precipitation. The often bald, rocky or sandy surfaces of arid climates evaporate the scanty precipitation, so that water is too low to sustain little, if any vegetation at all. \n\nNo part of Earth is known for certain to be absolutely rainless, although in Arica in northern Chile, the average annual rainfall over a period of 17 years was only 5 mm (0.2 in.). Some locations in the Sahara Desert such as Kufra, Libya record only .86 mm (0.03 inches) of rainfall annually. The official weather station in Death Valley, United States reports only 60 mm (2.3 inches) annually, and in one period between 1931 and 1934 (40 months) only 16 mm (0.64 inches) of rainfall was measured. \n\nMost desert and arid climates receive between 25 and 200 mm (1 to 8 inches) of rainfall annually. and in some years experience no precipitation at all. \n\nThere are three variations of a desert climate: a hot desert climate (\"BWh\"), a cold desert climate (\"BWk\") and, sometimes, a mild desert climate (\"BWh/BWn\"). Furthermore, to delineate \"hot desert climates\" from \"cold desert climates\", there are three widely used isotherms: either a mean annual temperature of 18 °C (which is the most accurate and most commonly used), or a mean temperature of 0 °C or −3 °C in the coldest month, so that a location with a \"BW\" type climate with the appropriate temperature above whichever isotherm is being used is classified as \"hot arid\" (BWh), and a location with the appropriate temperature below the given isotherm is classified as \"cold arid\".\n\nA location has an arid climate, the precipitation threshold is determined. The precipitation threshold (in millimetres) involves first multiplying the average annual temperature in °C by 20, then adding 280 if 70% or more of the total precipitation is in the high-sun half of the year (April through September in the Northern Hemisphere, or October through March in the Southern), or 140 if 30–70% of the total precipitation is received during the applicable period, or 0 if less than 30% of the total precipitation is so received. If the area's annual precipitation is less than half the threshold, it is classified as a \"BW\" (desert climate).\n\nHot desert climates (\"BWh\") are typically found under the subtropical ridge in the lower middle latitudes often between 20 and 33 north and south latitude. In these locations, stable descending air and high pressure aloft, create hot, arid, conditions with intense sunshine. Hot desert climates are generally hot, sunny and dry year-round. Hot desert climates are found across vast areas of North Africa, the Middle East, interior Australia, and smaller areas of the Southwestern United States, and Chile. \n\nAt the time of high sun (summer), scorching, desiccating heat prevails. Hot-month average temperatures are normally between 29 and 35 C (85 to 95 F), and midday readings of 43 - 46 C (110-115 F) are common. The world absolute heat records, over 50 °C (122 °F), are generally in the hot deserts, where the heat potential is the highest on the planet. Some official records for highest surface temperatures ever recorded in hot deserts include 134 F (57 C) in Death Valley, California and 136.4 F (58 C) in Libya. Some desert locations consistently experience very high temperatures all year long, even during wintertime. These locations feature some of the highest annual average temperatures recorded on Earth, averages which can exceed 30 °C (86 °F). This last feature is seen in sections of Africa and Arabia. During colder periods of the year, night-time temperatures can drop to freezing or below due to the exceptional radiation loss under the clear skies. However, very rarely do temperatures drop far below freezing.\n\nHot desert climates can be found in the deserts of North Africa such as the wide Sahara Desert, the Libyan Desert or the Nubian Desert; deserts of the Horn of Africa such as the Danakil Desert or the Grand Bara Desert; deserts of Southern Africa such as the Namib Desert or the Kalahari Desert; deserts of the Middle East such as the Arabian Desert, the Syrian Desert or the Lut Desert; deserts of South Asia such as Dasht-e Kavir, Dasht-e Loot, or the Thar Desert of India and Pakistan; deserts of the United States and Mexico such as the Mojave Desert, the Sonoran Desert or the Chihuahuan Desert; deserts of Australia such as the Simpson Desert or the Great Victoria Desert and many other regions. \n\nHot deserts are lands of extremes: most of them are the hottest, the driest and the sunniest places on Earth because of nearly constant high pressure; the nearly permanent removal of low pressure systems, dynamic fronts and atmospheric disturbances; sinking air motion; dry atmosphere near the surface and aloft; the exacerbated exposure to the sun where solar angles are always high.\n\nCold desert climates (\"BWk\") usually feature hot (or warm in a few instances), dry summers, though summers are not typically as hot as hot desert climates. Unlike hot desert climates, cold desert climates tend to feature cold, dry winters. Snow tends to be rare in regions with this climate. The Gobi Desert in Mongolia is a classic example for cold deserts. Though hot in the summer, it shares the very cold winters of the rest of Central Asia. Cold desert climates are typically found at higher altitudes than hot desert climates and are usually drier than hot desert climates.\n\nCold desert climates are typically located in temperate zones, usually in the rain shadow of high mountains, which restrict precipitation from the westerly winds. An example of this is the Patagonian Desert in Argentina bounded by the Andes to its west. In the case of Central Asia, mountains restrict precipitation from the monsoon. The Kyzyl Kum, Taklamakan and Katpana Desert deserts of Central Asia and the drier portions of the Great Basin Desert of the western United States are other major examples of BWk climates. The Ladakh region, and Leh city in the Great Himalayas in India, also has a cold desert climate. This is also found in Europe, primarily in Bardenas Reales near Tudela, Navarre and high altitude parts of the Tabernas Desert in Almería, Spain.\n\nArctic and Antarctic regions also receive very little precipitation during the year, owing to the exceptionally cold dry air; however, both of them are generally classified as having polar climates because they have average summer temperatures below .\n\nMild desert climates (\"BWn\") are usually found along the west coasts of continents at tropical or near tropical locations, or at high altitudes in areas that would otherwise feature hot desert climates. In South America, this climate is found adjacent to the Pacific Ocean in sections of the Atacama Desert, especially along the central and southern coast of Peru; Lima, its capital, has a mild desert climate that makes it one of the driest capital cities in the world. In North America, this type of climate can be found along the Pacific coast of the Baja California Peninsula. In Africa, this climate is found along parts of coastal Namibia, Western Sahara and Mauritania. In Asia, this type of climate can be found along the coast of the Arabian Peninsula, and in Australia, along the north-western coast coast of Western Australia.\n\nMild desert climates are characterised by more moderate temperatures than encountered elsewhere at comparable latitudes (usually due to the nearby presence of cold ocean currents) and, in the case of coastal mild deserts, frequent fog and low clouds, despite the fact that these places can rank among the driest on Earth in terms of actual precipitation received. Temperatures are mild throughout the year, usually not subject to any of the temperature extremes typically found in desert climates. Some publications do not have a \"mild desert\" category; in these documents mild desert climates are sorted into either the hot desert or cold desert classifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907770", "title": "Dispersive mass transfer", "text": "Dispersive mass transfer\n\nDispersive mass transfer, in fluid dynamics, is the spreading of mass from highly concentrated areas to less concentrated areas. It is one form of mass transfer.\n\nDispersive mass flux is analogous to diffusion, and it can also be described using Fick's first law:\n\nwhere c is mass concentration of the species being dispersed, E is the dispersion coefficient, and x is the position in the direction of the concentration gradient. Dispersion can be differentiated from diffusion in that it is caused by non-ideal flow patterns (i.e. deviations from plug flow) and is a macroscopic phenomenon, whereas diffusion is caused by random molecular motions (i.e. Brownian motion) and is a microscopic phenomenon. Dispersion is often more significant than diffusion in convection-diffusion problems. The dispersion coefficient is frequently modeled as the product of the fluid velocity, \"U\", and some characteristic length scale, \"α\":\n"}
{"id": "31905395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31905395", "title": "Energy in Sweden", "text": "Energy in Sweden\n\nEnergy in Sweden describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Sweden. Electricity sector in Sweden is the main article of electricity in Sweden. Swedish climate bill Feb 2017 aims to make Sweden carbon neutral by 2045. Swedish target is to decline emission of climate gases 63% from 1990 to 2030 and international transportation excluding foreign flights 70%. By 2014 just over half of the country's total final energy consumption in electricity, heating and cooling and transport combined was provided by renewables, the highest share amongst the 28 EU member countries.\n\nSwedish government climate and environment investment budget will be ca 1.3 billion euros in 4 years 2017 - 2020 in non fossil travel, renewable energy and international (Annually in Swedish currency : 1.8 billion 2017, 1.5 billion 2018, 4.5 billion 2019 & ca 5 billion 2020.) \n\nThe emissions decline 7.7% in 2008–2009 was at least partly influenced by the European economic recession of 2008–2009 and not only by the sustainable changes in energy consumption. From 2008 to 2009 the change in the US was a 7.0% decline and in Canada was a 9.6% decline.\n\nA report was published in 2011 by the World Energy Council in association with Oliver Wyman, entitled \"Policies for the Future: 2011 Assessment of Country Energy and Climate Policies\", which ranks country performance according to an energy sustainability index. The best performers were Switzerland, Sweden and France.\n\nBuildings and the residential sector currently account for 40 percent of Sweden's energy consumption. Buildings have a long life-span. Thus energy efficiency is important for houses being built. Better energy efficiency for existing buildings is the biggest challenge.\n\nWithin the context of the European Union's 2009 Renewables Directive, Sweden was working towards reaching a 49% share of renewable energy in gross final consumption of energy - electricity, heating/cooling, and transportation - by 2020. \nEurostat reported that Sweden had already exceeded the Directive's 2020 target in 2014 reaching 52.6% of total final energy consumption provided by renewables (it was just 38.7% in 2004).\nThis makes Sweden the leading country within the EU-28 group in terms of renewable energy use by share, followed by Finland and Latvia at 38.7%, Austria at 33.1% and Denmark on 29.2%. \nThe two other signatories of the directive, Iceland and Norway, remain ahead of Sweden at 77.1% and 69.2% respectively.\n\nThe 2014 52.6% overall share of final energy consumption in Sweden breaks down as renewable energy providing the following shares to each sector: 68.1% of the heating and cooling sector, 63.3% of the electricity sector and 19.2% of the transport sector.\n\nThe share of renewable electricity use is high in Sweden. Hydro, wind, and solar power together accounted for 49.8% of the electricity produced in the country in 2014 (when measured against national electricity \"consumption\", however, this amount rises to 55.5%). Since 2003, Sweden has supported renewable energy in the electricity sector with a \"green electricity certificate\" obligation for retail power suppliers. The current plan of the certificate system is to support 25 TWh of new renewable electricity generation by 2020.\n\nIn June 2016, the Swedish center-left minority coalition government reached a cross-party energy deal with three opposition parties (the Moderate Party, Centre Party (Sweden), and Christian Democrats (Sweden)), with the agreement targeting 100% renewable electricity production by 2040.\n\nIn 2013 renewable energy investment was more than US$1 billion in Sweden.\n\nWind power accounted for 10% of the electricity generated in Sweden in 2015, up from 5% in 2012 and 2.4% in 2010.\n\nSweden has wind power potential of 510 TWh/a at land and 46 TWh/a at sea. Consumption was 140 TWh of power in 2010.\n\nIn 2013 Sweden was second top country for wind power capacity per inhabitant in the world: 488 W per person, only surpassed by Denmark (863 W per person). In correlation one must note that Swedish use of energy per inhabitant is much higher than average in Europe.\n\nSweden has a wave power station outside Lysekil run by Uppsala University. The wave energy research group at Uppsala University study and develop all different aspects of wave energy, ranging from power systems and generators, to hydrodynamical modelling, and environmental impact of wave energy parks.\n\nHydroelectric power in Sweden accounts for more than half of energy production. More than 1900 power stations operate all over the country. Forty-five produce 100 MW and over, 17 produce 200 MW and over, and 6 produce 400 MW and over. The largest station, which is located on the upper Lule River, has a maximum production capacity of 977 MW. The Lule River is also the most productive river, with almost 18% of the Swedish installed effect. Almost all of the medium to large plants are located in northern Sweden.\n\nWhile installations have historically been minimal, solar power has recently been growing quickly in Sweden with the country's cumulative PV capacity nearly doubling in 2014 to 79 MW. Capacity rose further to 205 MW at the end of 2016.\n\nSolar power accounts for roughly 0.2% of the nation's total electricity consumption as of 2017.\n\nSweden aims for a fossil fuel free vehicle fleet by 2030.\n\nSweden published the sustainability criteria for biofuels (2011) which consider the areas with high biological values to be protected in respect to fuels production. The feedstock origin used for production of bioliquids in Sweden during 2011 was Sweden 49% The Netherlands 17% United States 17% Finland 6% Belgium 3% and other 8% (Brazil, Malaysia and Russia). Palm oil is often pointed out as a dirty feed-stock for biofuels. None of the Swedish companies used palm oil in 2011. The largest share of feedstock for bioliquids comes from the forest industry in the form of tall oil pitch, tall oil and methanol.\n\nIn 2013 the bus fleets in more than a dozen cities relied entirely on biomethane, local plants produced more than 60% of\nthe total biomethane used in Swedish natural gas vehicles, and more filling stations were opened in 2012 and 2013. Goteborg Energi (Gothenburg Energy) has a 20 MW facility that gasifies forest residues and then converts the synthesis gases—hydrogen and carbon monoxide—into biomethane.\n\nNuclear is dominating in this sector. The other operational plant is, in almost all cases, fueled with renewable fuels. Oil plants are few, and are either decommissioned or used as a reserve,\n\nMore than 35% of the Swedish electricity is produced by 10 nuclear reactors, spread out on three power stations:\n\nBefore 2005, there were 12 reactors, but the two BWR reactors (~1,2 GW) at the Barsebäck nuclear power plant were decommissioned in 1999 and 2005.\n\nAccording to Energy Information Administration the CO emissions from energy consumption of Sweden were in 2009 54.77 Mt, slightly below Finland 54.86 Mt, despite the difference in population. The emissions per capita were in Sweden 5.58 and in Finland 9.93 tonnes per capita in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43220355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43220355", "title": "Ewens Ponds Conservation Park", "text": "Ewens Ponds Conservation Park\n\nEwens Ponds Conservation Park is a protected area in the Australian state of South Australia consisting of the Ewens Ponds and some adjoining land in the gazetted locality of Eight Mile Creek about east of Port MacDonnell in South Australia and about south of Mount Gambier. The conservation park was proclaimed in 1976 under \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\". The conservation park was proclaimed for the following reasons: The conservation park contains remnants of the terrestrial and aquatic vegetation communities which existed prior to clearing and development. The fauna within the conservation park is also relatively unique within South Australia and the physical features of the ponds are unique within Australia. The conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category III protected area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1753471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1753471", "title": "Ficus religiosa", "text": "Ficus religiosa\n\nFicus religiosa or sacred fig is a species of fig native to the Indian subcontinent and Indochina that belongs to \"Moraceae\", the fig or mulberry family. It is also known as the bodhi tree, pippala tree, peepul tree, peepal tree or ashwattha tree (in India and Nepal). The sacred fig is considered to have a religious significance in three major religions that originated on the Indian subcontinent, Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism. It is the type of tree that Gautama Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment under, and Hindu and Jain ascetics also consider the tree to be sacred and often meditate under them. \n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is a large dry season-deciduous or semi-evergreen tree up to tall and with a trunk diameter of up to . The leaves are in shape with a distinctive extended drip tip; they are long and broad, with a petiole. The fruits are small figs in diameter, green ripening to purple. \n\n\"F. religiosa\" is a tree having a very long lifespan, with an average life ranging between 900–1,500 years. At some of its native habitats, it has been reportedly found living for over 3,000 years. Some trees have been reported to be more than 2,000 years old, like the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi, a peepul tree in the ancient city of Anuradhapura in Sri Lanka which is estimated to be more than 2,250 years old and is regarded as the \"Oldest historical tree in the world with religious importance\".\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is native to tropical Asia, but it has now been introduced, spread and cultivated around much of the world, and in some cases it has become naturalized where its specialist pollinator wasp (Blastophaga quadriceps) has also been introduced.\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is a species native to the Indian subcontinent and South-East Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Bhutan, China (Yunnan province), India (all states except Andaman and Nicobar Islands), Laos , Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand and Vietnam. It was initially introduced to Sri Lanka in 288 BCE and later to other neighbouring Asian countries like Philippines and Singapore. In Philippines, it was introduced at an early date and now has become widespread throughout the country. Sacred Fig was unintentionally introduced to Israel because of horticulture practices and its associated pollinator wasp was also present in the country by the 1960s, which led to its widespread distribution.\n\nIn Africa, \"F. religiosa\" is a native species of Chad. It is distributed in Egypt and Madagascar where it is cultivated, and Libya where it was introduced and now cultivated.\n\nIn North America, \"F. religiosa\" is distributed only in Mexico and 3 states of the United States where it is cultivated. California, Florida and Hawaii are the only states to have a known distribution of the species.\n\nIn Central America and Caribbean, the species is distributed in Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Nicaragua, Panama, Puerto Rico. It was most probably brought to these countries from Indian subcontinent in late 19th or early 20th century during the British Empire. In Nicaragua and Panama, it is only found in cultivation.\n\nIn South America, the species is distributed in Colombia, Paraguay and Venezuela. In Colombia, it is only found in cultivation while in Paraguay, it is cultivated as well as also occurring in forests at lower altitudes.\n\nIn Oceania, the species is distributed in the Australian state of New South Wales where it has been naturalised after regional distribution, Fiji where it is cultivated, Mariana Islands (Guam), Northern Mariana Islands (Tinian Is.) and New Caledonia.\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" suitably grows at altitudes ranging from up to . Due to the climatic conditions which are prevalent throughout different heat zones, it can grow at latitudes ranging from 30°N to 5°S. It can tolerate air temperatures ranging between to , beyond this upper limit its growth diminishes. It grows on a wide variety of soils but preferably needs deep, alluvial sandy loam with good drainage. It is also found on shallow soils including rock crevices.\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is associated with Blastophaga quadriceps, an agaonid wasp which acts as its pollinator as this wasp lays its eggs only on trees of this species.\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is tolerant to various climate zones (Köppen climate classification categories of Af, Am, Aw/As, Cfa, Cwa and Csa) and various types of soils. In Paraguay the tree species occurs in forests at lower elevations, and in China the species has been reported growing at altitudes ranging from to . In India, being a native species, it occurs both naturally in wild as well as cultivated up to altitudes of .\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is tolerant to widely varying climatic conditions such as Tropical rainforest climate where the region receives more than of precipitation per month, Tropical monsoon climate where average precipitation ranges from in the driest month to , Tropical savanna climate with dry summer where average precipitation ranges from per month in summers to per month in winters, Warm temperate climate, wet all year where average temperature ranges from to and it is wet all year, as well as Warm temperate climate with dry summer where average temperature ranges from to and summers are dry.\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" has been listed as an \"environmental weed\" or \"naturalised weed\" by the Global Compendium of Weeds (Randall, 2012). It has been assigned an invasiveness high risk score of 7 in a risk assessment prepared for the species' invasiveness in Hawaii by PIER. Such a high score predicts it will become a major pest in suitable climate zones. The major reasons for its invasive behaviour are its fast-growing nature, tolerance to various climate zones and soil types, reported lifespan of over 3,000 years, and its suffocating growth habit as it often begins life as an epiphyte.\n\nThe \"Ficus religiosa\" tree is considered sacred by the followers of Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism. In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says, \"I am the Peepul tree among the trees, Narada among the sages, Chitraaratha among the Gandharvas, And sage Kapila among the Siddhas.\"\n\nGautama Buddha attained enlightenment (\"bodhi\") while meditating underneath a \"Ficus religiosa\". The site is in present-day Bodh Gaya in Bihar, India. The original tree was destroyed, and has been replaced several times. A branch of the original tree was rooted in Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka in 288 BCE and is known as Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi; it is the oldest flowering plant (angiosperm) in the world.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhist Southeast Asia, the tree's massive trunk is often the site of Buddhist or animist shrines. Not all \"Ficus religiosa\" can be called a \"Bodhi Tree\". A Bodhi Tree must be able to trace its parent to another Bodhi Tree and the line goes on until the first Bodhi Tree under which Gautama is said to have gained enlightenment.\n\nSadhus (Hindu ascetics) still meditate beneath sacred fig trees, and Hindus do pradakshina (circumambulation, or meditative pacing) around the sacred fig tree as a mark of worship. Usually seven pradakshinas are done around the tree in the morning time chanting \"vriksha rajaya namah\", meaning \"salutation to the king of trees.\" It claimed that the 27 stars (constellations) constituting 12 houses (\"rasis\") and 9 planets are specifically represented precisely by 27 trees—one for each star. The Bodhi Tree is said to represent Pushya (Western star name γ, δ and θ Cancri in the Cancer constellation).\n\n\"Plaksa\" is a possible Sanskrit term for \"Ficus religiosa\". However, according to Macdonell and Keith (1912), it denotes the wavy-leaved fig tree (\"Ficus infectoria\") instead. In Hindu texts, the Plaksa tree is associated with the source of the Sarasvati River. The \"Skanda Purana\" states that the Sarasvati originates from the water pot of Brahma flows from Plaksa on the Himalayas. According to Vamana Purana 32.1-4, the Sarasvati was rising from the Plaksa tree (Pipal tree). \"Plaksa Pra-sravana\" denotes the place where the Sarasvati appears. In the Rigveda Sutras, Plaksa Pra-sravana refers to the source of the Sarasvati.\n\nThe \"Ficus religiosa\" tree is known by a wide range of vernacular names, including:\n\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is grown by specialty tree plant nurseries for use as an ornamental tree, in gardens and parks in tropical and subtropical climates. Peepul trees are native to Indian subcontinent and thrive in hot, humid weather. They prefer full sunlight and can grow in most soil types, though loam is the best. When planting, use soil with a pH of 7 or below. While it is possible for the plant to grow indoors in a pot, it grows best outside. Young peepul needs proper nourishment. It requires full sunlight and proper watering. Sacred fig occurs naturally in submontane forest regions. \n\nIn the Middle East, it is preferably planted as an avenue or road verge tree. In the Philippines and in Nicaragua the species is cultivated in parks and along roadsides and pavements, while in Paraguay it occurs in forests at lower elevations.\n\n\"Ficus religiosa\" is used in traditional medicine for about 50 types of disorders including asthma, diabetes, diarrhea, epilepsy, gastric problems, inflammatory disorders, infectious and sexual disorders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32156082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32156082", "title": "Flux melting", "text": "Flux melting\n\nIn igneous petrology, flux melting occurs when water and other volatile components are added to hot solid rock. In engineering and metallurgy, flux is a substance, such as salt, that produces a low melting point mixture with a metal oxide. In the same way, the addition of water and other volatile compounds to rocks composed of silicate minerals lowers the melting temperature of those rocks.\n\nIn subduction zones, the ultramafic rock of the upper mantle is melted by the addition of volatiles from the down-going plate. The subducting slab of oceanic crust carries water and other volatiles into the mantle, where these volatiles are released by metamorphic dewatering into the overlying mantle wedge. The partial melting triggered by the incorporation of volatiles produces mafic magma which rises and differentiates forming the igneous and volcanic rocks of the overlying volcanic arc.\n"}
{"id": "23266844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23266844", "title": "Geothermal power in El Salvador", "text": "Geothermal power in El Salvador\n\nGeothermal power in El Salvador represents 25% of the country's total electricity production. El Salvador is one of the top ten geothermal energy producers in the world. Since 1975, the Ahuachapán geothermal field has been in continuous and successful commercial operation. Since 1992, the Berlin geothermal field is under commercial production, with the installation of two units. Each one with 5 MWe power plants.\n"}
{"id": "3627082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3627082", "title": "Global spread of H5N1", "text": "Global spread of H5N1\n\nThe global spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza in birds is considered a significant pandemic threat.\n\nWhile other H5N1 influenza strains are known, they are significantly different from a current, highly pathogenic H5N1 strain on a genetic level, making the global spread of this new strain unprecedented. The H5N1 strain is a fast-mutating, highly pathogenic avian influenza virus (HPAI) found in multiple bird species. It is both epizootic (an epidemic in non-humans) and panzootic (a disease affecting animals of many species especially over a wide area). Unless otherwise indicated, \"H5N1\" in this timeline refers to the recent highly pathogenic strain of H5N1.\n\n\"Since 1997, studies of H5N1 influenza indicate that these viruses continue to evolve, with changes in antigenicity and internal gene constellations; an expanded host range in avian species and the ability to infect felids; enhanced pathogenicity in experimentally infected mice and ferrets, in which they cause systemic infections; and increased environmental stability.\"\n\nTens of millions of birds have died of H5N1 influenza and hundreds of millions of birds have been slaughtered and disposed of, to limit the spread of H5N1. Countries that have reported one or more major highly pathogenic H5N1 outbreaks in birds (causing at least thousands but in some cases millions of dead birds) are (in order of first outbreak occurrence): South Korea, Vietnam, Japan, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Indonesia, China, Malaysia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Turkey, Romania, Croatia, Ukraine, Cyprus, Iraq, Nigeria, Egypt, India, France, Niger, Bosnia, Azerbaijan, Albania, Cameroon, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Israel, Pakistan, Jordan, Burkina Faso, Germany, Sudan, Ivory Coast, Djibouti, Hungary, United Kingdom, Kuwait, Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, Ghana, Czech Republic, Togo, Nepal, and Bhutan.\nHighly pathogenic H5N1 has been found in birds in the wild in numerous other countries: Austria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Greece, Iran, Italy, Poland, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. Surveillance of H5N1 in humans, poultry, wild birds, cats and other animals remains very weak in many parts of Asia and Africa. Much remains unknown about the exact extent of its spread.\n\nH5N1 has low pathogenic varieties endemic in birds in North America. H5N1 has a highly pathogenic variety that is endemic in dozens of species of birds throughout south Asia and parts of Africa. So far, it is very difficult for humans to become infected with H5N1. The presence of highly pathogenic (deadly) H5N1 around the world in both birds in the wild (swans, magpies, ducks, geese, pigeons, eagles, etc.) and in chickens and turkeys on farms has been demonstrated in millions of cases with the virus isolate actually sequenced in hundreds of cases yielding definitive proof of the evolution of this strain of this subtype of the species Influenzavirus A (bird flu virus).\n\nAccording to Robert G. Webster:\nAs of the July 25, 2008 FAO Avian Influenza Disease Emergency Situation Update, H5N1 pathogenicity is continuing to gradually rise in endemic areas but the avian influenza disease situation in farmed birds is being held in check by vaccination. Eleven outbreaks of H5N1 were reported worldwide in June 2008 in five countries (China, Egypt, Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam) compared to 65 outbreaks in June 2006 and 55 in June 2007. The \"global HPAI situation can be said to have\nimproved markedly in the first half of 2008 [but] cases of HPAI are still underestimated and underreported in many countries because of limitations in country disease surveillance systems\".\n\n\n\nIn January 2004 a major new outbreak of H5N1 surfaced in Vietnam and Thailand's poultry industry, and within weeks spread to ten countries and regions in Asia, including Indonesia, South Korea, Japan and China. In October 2004 researchers discovered H5N1 is far more dangerous than previously believed because waterfowl, especially ducks, were directly spreading the highly pathogenic strain of H5N1 to chickens, crows, pigeons, and other birds and that it was increasing its ability to infect mammals as well. From this point on, avian influenza experts increasingly refer to containment as a strategy that can delay but not prevent a future avian flu pandemic.\n\nIn January 2005 an outbreak of avian influenza affected thirty three out of sixty four cities and provinces in Vietnam, leading to the forced killing of nearly 1.2 million poultry. Up to 140 million birds are believed to have died or been killed because of the outbreak. In April 2005 there begins an unprecedented die-off of over 6,000 migratory birds at Qinghai Lake in central China over three months. This strain of H5N1 is the same strain as is spread west by migratory birds over at least the next ten months. In August 2005 H5N1 spread to Kazakhstan, Mongolia and Russia. On September 29, 2005, David Nabarro, the newly appointed Senior United Nations System Coordinator for Avian and Human Influenza, warned the world that an outbreak of avian influenza could kill 5 to 150 million people. David Nabarro later stated that as the virus had spread to migratory birds, an outbreak could start in Africa or the Middle East. Later in 2005 H5N1 spread to Turkey, Romania, Croatia and Kuwait.\n\n\nIn January, Japan, Hungary, Russia, and the United Kingdom joined the list of nations seeing a resurgence of bird deaths due to H5N1. In February, Pakistan, Turkey, Afghanistan, and Myanmar joined the list and Kuwait saw its first major outbreak of H5N1 avian influenza.\n\nIn March Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia each saw their first major outbreak of H5N1 avian influenza and Ghana in May.\n\nAs H5N1 continued killing many birds and a few people throughout the spring in countries where it is now endemic, in June Malaysia and Germany saw a resurgence of bird deaths due to H5N1, while the Czech Republic and Togo experienced their first major outbreak of H5N1 avian influenza.\n\nIn July France and India also saw a resurgence of bird deaths due to H5N1.\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of the July 25, 2008 FAO Avian Influenza Disease Emergency Situation Update, H5N1 pathogenicity is continuing to gradually rise in wild birds in endemic areas but the avian influenza disease situation in farmed birds is being held in check by vaccination. Eleven outbreaks of H5N1 were reported worldwide in June 2008 in five countries (China, Egypt, Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam) compared to 65 outbreaks in June 2006 and 55 in June 2007. The \"global HPAI situation can be said to have\nimproved markedly in the first half of 2008 [but] cases of HPAI are still underestimated and underreported in many countries because of limitations in country disease surveillance systems\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAvian influenza virus H3N2 is endemic in pigs (\"swine flu\") in China and has been detected in pigs in Vietnam, increasing fears of the emergence of new variant strains. Health experts say pigs can carry human influenza viruses, which can combine (i.e. exchange homologous genome sub-units by genetic reassortment) with H5N1, passing genes and mutating into a form which can pass easily among humans. H3N2 evolved from H2N2 by antigenic shift and caused the Hong Kong Flu pandemic of 1968 and 1969 that killed up to 750,000 humans. The dominant strain of annual flu in humans in January 2006 is H3N2. Measured resistance to the standard antiviral drugs amantadine and rimantadine in H3N2 in humans has increased to 91% in 2005. A combination of these two subtypes of the species known as the avian influenza virus in a country like China is a worst-case scenario. In August 2004, researchers in China found H5N1 in pigs.\n\nIn 2005, it was discovered that H5N1 \"could be infecting up to half of the pig population in some areas of Indonesia, but without causing symptoms [...] Chairul Nidom, a virologist at Airlangga University's tropical disease center in Surabaya, Java, was conducting independent research earlier this year. He tested the blood of 10 apparently healthy pigs housed near poultry farms in western Java where avian flu had broken out, \"Nature\" reported. Five of the pig samples contained the H5N1 virus. The Indonesian government has since found similar results in the same region, Nature reported. Additional tests of 150 pigs outside the area were negative.\"\n\n\"In Bangkok, Thailand, all the cats in one household are known to have died of H5N1 in 2004. Tigers and leopards in Thai zoos also died, while in 2007 two cats near an outbreak in poultry and people in Iraq were confirmed to have died of H5N1, as were three German cats that ate wild birds. In Austria, cats were infected but remained healthy\". Cats in Indonesia were also found to have been infected with H5N1.\n\nThe spread to more and more types and populations of birds and the ability of felidae (cats) to catch H5N1 from eating this natural prey means the creation of a reservoir for H5N1 in cats where the virus can adapt to mammals is one of the many possible pathways to a pandemic.\n\nVariants have been found in a number of domestic cats, leopards, and tigers in Thailand, with high lethality. \"The Thailand Zoo tiger outbreak killed more than 140 tigers, causing health officials to make the decision to cull all the sick tigers in an effort to stop the zoo from becoming a reservoir for H5N1 influenza. A study of domestic cats showed H5N1 virus infection by ingestion of infected poultry and also by contact with other infected cats (Kuiken et al., 2004).\" The initial OIE report reads: \"the clinical manifestations began on 11 October 2004 with weakness, lethargy, respiratory distress, and high fever (about 41-42 degrees Celsius). There was no response to any antibiotic treatment. Death occurred within three days following the onset of clinical signs with severe pulmonary lesions.\"\n\nA dead cat infected with the H5N1 bird flu virus was found in Germany.\n\nHans Seitinger, the top agriculture official in the southern state of Styria, Austria announced that several still living cats in Styria have tested positive for H5N1:\n\nIt was announced in the August 2006 CDC EID journal that while literature describing HPAI H5N1 infection in cats had been limited to a subset of clade I viruses; a Qinghai-like virus (they are genetically distinct from other clade II viruses) killed up to five cats and 51 chickens from February 3 to 5, 2006 in Grd Jotyar (~10 km north of Erbil City, Iraq). Two of the cats were available for examination.\n\n\"Chairul Anwar Nidom of Airlangga University in Surabaya, Indonesia, told journalists last week that he had taken blood samples from 500 stray cats near poultry markets in four areas of Java, including the capital, Jakarta, and one area in Sumatra, all of which have recently had outbreaks of H5N1 in poultry and people. Of these cats, 20% carried antibodies to H5N1. This does not mean that they were still carrying the virus, only that they had been infected - probably through eating birds that had H5N1. Many other cats that were infected are likely to have died from the resulting illness, so many more than 20% of the original cat populations may have acquired H5N1.\"\n\nH5N1 has been transmitted in laboratories to many species including mice and ferrets to study its effects. A purposely mutated strain in ferrets has engendered a notable international policy debate regarding the openness of scientific research, the mandates of public health, and the potential for bioterrorism.\n\nH5N1 was transmitted in the wild to three civet cats in Vietnam in August 2005 and a stone marten in Germany in March 2006.\n\nThe BBC reported that a stray dog in Azerbaijan died from the disease on March 15, 2006.\n\nPeople living in areas where the A(H5N1) virus has infected birds are advised to keep their cats indoors. \"Cats can be infected through the respiratory tract. Cats can also be infected when they ingest the virus, which is a novel route for influenza transmission in mammals. But cats excrete only one-thousandth the amount of virus that chickens do [...] The concern is that if large numbers of felines and other carnivores become infected, the virus might mutate in a series of events that could lead to an epidemic among humans. Dogs, foxes, seals, and other carnivores may be vulnerable to A(H5N1) virus infection, Dr. Osterhaus said. Tests in Thailand have shown that the virus has infected dogs without causing apparent symptoms.\"\n\nH5N1 has the potential to infect cattle. Asymptomatic shedding of H5N1 by infected calves and subsequent seroconversion is possible. Bird-to-calf transmission resulting in seroconversion is probable. While the incidence of clinical infections of cattle with H5N1 in H5N1 endemic regions should be low, \"serum from bovine species would be a valuable source of additional information about transmission events, especially in regions like Asia and Egypt, where HPAIV (H5N1) is endemic and probability of contact between poultry and cattle is high.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45232744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45232744", "title": "Helen Macdonald (writer)", "text": "Helen Macdonald (writer)\n\nHelen Macdonald (born 1970) is an English writer, naturalist, and an Affiliated Research Scholar at the University of Cambridge Department of History and Philosophy of Science. She is best known as the author of \"H is for Hawk\", which won the 2014 Samuel Johnson Prize and Costa Book Award. In 2016, it also won the Prix du Meilleur Livre Étranger in France.\n\nWriting about her childhood for \"The Guardian\" in 2018, Macdonald said, \"I grew up in Camberley, a Victorian town on the A30 in Surrey. It was made of pine forests, golf courses, elderly army officers with parade ground voices, Conservative clubs and tea dances. In 1975 my parents had bought a little white house in Tekels Park, a private estate near the town centre. It was owned by the Theosophical Society. My parents were journalists and knew nothing of theosophy, but they loved the Park, and I did too. No place has so indelibly shaped my writing life\".\n\nHelen Macdonald was educated at Cambridge University. She was a Research Fellow at Jesus College, Cambridge from 2004 to 2007. She is an Affiliated Research Scholar at the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, University of Cambridge.\n\nMacdonald has written and narrated radio programmes, and appeared in the BBC Four documentary series, \"Birds Britannia\", in 2010. Her books include \"Shaler's Fish\" (2001), \"Falcon\" (2006), and \"H is for Hawk\" (2014).\n\nMacdonald won the 2014 Samuel Johnson Prize for non-fiction for \"H is for Hawk\" The book—which also became a \"Sunday Times\" best-seller—describes the year Macdonald spent after the death of her father Alisdair Macdonald, training a Northern goshawk named Mabel, and includes biographical material about the naturalist and writer T. H. White.\n\nMacdonald also helped make the film \"10 X Murmuration\" with filmmaker Sarah Wood as part of a 2015 exhibition at the Brighton festival. In \"H is for Hawk: A New Chapter\", part of BBC's \"Natural World\" series in 2017, she trained a new goshawk chick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3656500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3656500", "title": "Hyaloclastite", "text": "Hyaloclastite\n\nHyaloclastite is a volcaniclastic accumulation or breccia consisting of glass (from the Greek \"hyalus\") fragments (clasts) formed by quench fragmentation of lava flow surfaces during submarine extrusion. It occurs as thin margins on the lava flow surfaces and between pillow lavas as well as in thicker deposits, more commonly associated with explosive, volatile-rich eruptions as well as steeper topography. Hyaloclastites form during volcanic eruptions under water, under ice or where subaerial flows reach the sea or other bodies of water. It commonly has the appearance of angular flat fragments sized between a millimeter to few centimeters. The fragmentation occurs by the force of the volcanic explosion, or by thermal shock and spallation during rapid cooling.\n\nSeveral minerals are found in hyaloclastite masses. Sideromelane is a basalt glass rapidly quenched in water. It is transparent and pure, lacking the iron oxide crystals dispersed in the more commonly occurring tachylite. Fragments of these glasses are usually surrounded by a yellow waxy layer of palagonite, formed by reaction of sideromelane with water.\n\nHyaloclastite ridges, formed by subglacial eruptions during the last glacial period, are a prominent landscape feature of Iceland and the Canadian province of British Columbia. Hyaloclastite is usually found at subglacial volcanoes, such as tuyas, which is type of distinctive, flat-topped, steep-sided volcano formed when lava erupts through a thick glacier or ice sheet.\n\nIn lava deltas, hyaloclastites form the main constituent of foresets formed ahead of the expanding delta. The foresets fill in the seabed topography, eventually building up to sea level, allowing the subaerial flow to move forwards until it reaches the sea again.\n\n"}
{"id": "5385143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5385143", "title": "Hyalopilitic", "text": "Hyalopilitic\n\nHyalopilitic is a textural term used in petrographic classification of volcanic rocks. Specifically, hyalopilitic refers to a volcanic rock groundmass, which is visible only under magnification with a petrographic microscope, that contains a mixture of very fine-grained mineral crystals either mixed with natural volcanic glass, or surrounded by thin bands of volcanic glass.\n\n"}
{"id": "25269562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25269562", "title": "International Maritime Law Institute", "text": "International Maritime Law Institute\n\nThe IMO International Maritime Law Institute (IMLI) was established in 1988 under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization, a specialised agency of the United Nations. Its mission is to training of specialists in maritime law The Institute is currently headquartered in Malta, on the campus of the University of Malta.\n\nIMLI was established in 1988 under an Agreement concluded between IMO and the Government of Malta. It commenced its first academic year in October 1989. Its campus is at the University of Malta.\n\nThe Institute offers academic course designed to cover the whole spectrum of international maritime law, including international law, law of the sea, shipping law, marine environmental law, and legislation drafting. Training at the Institute concentrates on three areas:\n\n\nThe duration of the course is one academic year and successful students are awarded a master's degree (LLM) in International Maritime Law.\n\nMore recently the Institute offers other Programmes of Study, ranging from the Doctor of Philosophy in International Maritime Law to an Advanced Diploma for non-lawyers who wish to understand the major features of international maritime law.\n\nIMLI offers three programmes – LL.M., Ph.D. and Advanced Diploma – and a wide number of short, modular courses.\n\nMASTER OF LAWS (LL.M.) IN INTERNATIONAL MARITIME LAW\n\nThe Master of Laws (LL.M.) Programme in International Maritime Law is held over one academic year, beginning in September and running until May of the following year. It covers all areas of shipping law, the law of the sea, marine environmental law, maritime security law as well as legislative drafting. Participants are given special training in the techniques of implementation of international maritime conventions and regulations into domestic legislation. \nThe Programme is delivered entirely in English. Since the setting up of the Institute 20 years ago, 464 lawyers from 112 States have graduated from the Institute’s LL.M. Programme. Graduates are instrumental in advising their Governments on the need for new or revised laws and regulations in maritime affairs and on their implementation. A high number of IMLI’s alumni occupy senior positions in Governments and shipping companies.\n\nDOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY (Ph.D.) IN INTERNATIONAL MARITIME LAW\n\nThe Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) programme is exclusively research-based and involves the writing and defence of a 100,000-word thesis in an area of international maritime law. A prestigious list of world-renowned experts in maritime law acts as supervisors. This is an external degree which must be completed within three to five years and may be undertaken almost entirely from abroad. A Master’s degree and university education in law are considered as pre-requisites.\n\nADVANCED DIPLOMA IN INTERNATIONAL MARITIME LAW\n\nThe Advanced Diploma Programme in International Maritime Law is designed to benefit professionals (including those in the most senior levels) who are involved in maritime practice both in the private and in the public sectors and who, because of their careers, are unable to be away from their jobs for any length of time in excess of a few weeks per year. The Programme is structured on a credit system. Candidates must earn a sufficient number of credits after following and successfully completing courses on distinct subject areas to allow him/her the award of an Advanced Diploma. The Programme is open to non-lawyers. Candidates are required to possess a degree from a recognized University or other academic institution, or must possess qualifications of comparable standards, including relevant professional or practical experience, or both, recognized for this purpose by the Institute.\n\nSHORT COURSES\n\nModular, short-term courses are offered throughout the academic year on selected topics of maritime law. These courses are open to non-lawyers. On request, IMLI also provides tailor-made, intensive training courses and seminars to corporate and international organisations.\n\nIn order to qualify, students – who primarily should come from developing States – are required to have a first law degree. At IMLI, 50% of the places on the course each year are reserved for women candidates. Candidates are generally nominated and supported by their Governments, but seats are also allocated to independent candidates.\n\nChairman of the Governing Board: Efthimios Mitropoulos \nDirector: Professor David Attard (1992–present)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185153", "title": "Isostasy", "text": "Isostasy\n\nIsostasy (Greek \"ísos\" \"equal\", \"stásis\" \"standstill\") is the state of gravitational equilibrium between Earth's crust and mantle such that the crust \"floats\" at an elevation that depends on its thickness and density.\n\nThis concept is invoked to explain how different topographic heights can exist at Earth's surface. When a certain area of Earth's crust reaches the state of isostasy, it is said to be in \"isostatic equilibrium\". Isostasy does not upset equilibrium but instead restores it (a negative feedback). It is generally accepted that Earth is a dynamic system that responds to loads in many different ways. However, isostasy provides an important 'view' of the processes that are happening in areas that are experiencing vertical movement. Certain areas (such as the Himalayas) are not in isostatic equilibrium, which has forced researchers to identify other reasons to explain their topographic heights (in the case of the Himalayas, which are still rising, by proposing that their elevation is being supported by the force of the impacting Indian Plate; the Basin and Range Province of the Western US is another example of a region not in isostatic equilibrium.)\n\nAlthough originally defined in terms of continental crust and mantle, it has subsequently been interpreted in terms of lithosphere and asthenosphere, particularly with respect to oceanic island volcanoes such as the Hawaiian Islands.\n\nIn the simplest example, isostasy is the principle of buoyancy wherein an object immersed in a fluid is buoyed with a force equal to the weight of the displaced fluid. On a geological scale, isostasy can be observed where Earth's strong crust or lithosphere exerts stress on the weaker mantle or asthenosphere, which, over geological time, flows laterally such that the load is accommodated by height adjustments.\n\nThe general term 'isostasy' was coined in the year 1889 by the American geologist Clarence Dutton.\n\nThree principal models of isostasy are used:\n\nAiry and Pratt isostasy are statements of buoyancy, whereas flexural isostasy is a statement of buoyancy when deflecting a sheet of finite elastic strength.\n\nThe basis of the model is Pascal's law, and particularly its consequence that, within a fluid in static equilibrium, the hydrostatic pressure is the same on every point at the same elevation (surface of hydrostatic compensation). In other words:\n\nh⋅ρ = h⋅ρ = h⋅ρ = ... h⋅ρ\n\nFor the simplified picture shown the depth of the mountain belt roots (b) are:\nformula_1\n\nformula_2\n\nformula_3\n\nwhere formula_4 is the density of the mantle (ca. 3,300 kg m) and formula_5 is the density of the crust (ca. 2,750 kg m). Thus, we may generally consider:\nb ≅ 5⋅h\n\nIn the case of negative topography (i.e., a marine basin), the balancing of lithospheric columns gives:\nformula_6\n\nformula_7\n\nformula_8\n\nwhere formula_4 is the density of the mantle (ca. 3,300 kg m), formula_5 is the density of the crust (ca. 2,750 kg m) and formula_11 is the density of the water (ca. 1,000 kg m). Thus, we may generally consider:\nb ≅ 3.2⋅h\n\nFor the simplified model shown the new density is given by: formula_12, where formula_13 is the height of the mountain and c the thickness of the crust.\n\nThis hypothesis was suggested to explain how large topographic loads such as seamounts (e.g. Hawaiian Islands) could be compensated by regional rather than local displacement of the lithosphere. This is the more general solution for lithospheric flexure, as it approaches the locally compensated models above as the load becomes much larger than a flexural wavelength or the flexural rigidity of the lithosphere approaches zero.\n\nWhen large amounts of sediment are deposited on a particular region, the immense weight of the new sediment may cause the crust below to sink. Similarly, when large amounts of material are eroded away from a region, the land may rise to compensate. Therefore, as a mountain range is eroded, the (reduced) range rebounds upwards (to a certain extent) to be eroded further. Some of the rock strata now visible at the ground surface may have spent much of their history at great depths below the surface buried under other strata, to be eventually exposed as those other strata eroded away and the lower layers rebounded upwards.\n\nAn analogy may be made with an iceberg—it always floats with a certain proportion of its mass below the surface of the water. If more ice is added to the top of the iceberg, the iceberg will sink lower in the water. If a layer of ice is somehow sliced off the top of the iceberg, the remaining iceberg will rise. Similarly, Earth's lithosphere \"floats\" in the asthenosphere.\n\nWhen continents collide, the continental crust may thicken at their edges in the collision. If this happens, much of the thickened crust may move \"downwards\" rather than up as with the iceberg analogy. The idea of continental collisions building mountains \"up\" is therefore rather a simplification. Instead, the crust \"thickens\" and \"the upper part of the thickened crust\" may become a mountain range.\n\nHowever, some continental collisions are far more complex than this, and the region may not be in isostatic equilibrium, so this subject has to be treated with caution for better understanding .\n\nThe formation of ice sheets can cause Earth's surface to sink. Conversely, isostatic post-glacial rebound is observed in areas once covered by ice sheets that have now melted, such as around the Baltic Sea and Hudson Bay. As the ice retreats, the load on the lithosphere and asthenosphere is reduced and they \"rebound\" back towards their equilibrium levels. In this way, it is possible to find former sea cliffs and associated wave-cut platforms hundreds of metres above present-day sea level. The rebound movements are so slow that the uplift caused by the ending of the last glacial period is still continuing.\n\nIn addition to the vertical movement of the land and sea, isostatic adjustment of the Earth also involves horizontal movements. It can cause changes in Earth's gravitational field and rotation rate, polar wander, and earthquakes.\n\nEustasy is another cause of relative sea level change quite different from isostatic causes. The term \"eustasy\" or \"eustatic\" refers to changes in the volume of water in the oceans, usually due to global climate change. When Earth's climate cools, a greater proportion of water is stored on land masses in the form of glaciers, snow, etc. This results in falling global sea levels (relative to a stable land mass). The refilling of ocean basins by glacial meltwater at the end of ice ages is an example of eustatic sea level rise.\n\nA second significant cause of eustatic sea level rise is thermal expansion of sea water when Earth's mean temperature increases. Current estimates of global eustatic rise from tide gauge records and satellite altimetry is about +3 mm/a (see 2007 IPCC report). Global sea level is also affected by vertical crustal movements, changes in Earth's rotation rate, large-scale changes in continental margins and changes in the spreading rate of the ocean floor.\n\nWhen the term \"relative\" is used in context with \"sea level change\", the implication is that both eustasy and isostasy are at work, or that the author does not know which cause to invoke.\n\nPost-glacial rebound can also be a cause of rising sea levels. When the sea floor rises, which it continues to do in parts of the northern hemisphere, water is displaced and has to go elsewhere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40478304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40478304", "title": "Katharine Hayhoe", "text": "Katharine Hayhoe\n\nKatharine Anne Scott Hayhoe (born April 15, 1972) is an atmospheric scientist and professor of political science at Texas Tech University, where she is director of the Climate Science Center. She is also the CEO of the consulting firm ATMOS Research and Consulting.\n\nHayhoe is from Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nHayhoe received a degree in physics and astronomy from the University of Toronto, and her masters' and PhD in atmospheric science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Her Ph.D. committee was chaired by Donald Wuebbles.\n\nHayhoe has worked at Texas Tech since 2005. She has authored more than 120 peer-reviewed publications, and wrote the book \"A Climate for Change: Global Warming Facts for Faith-Based Decisions\" together with her husband, Andrew Farley. She also co-authored some reports for the US Global Change Research Program, as well as some National Academy of Sciences reports, including the 3rd National Climate Assessment, released on May 6, 2014. Shortly after the report was released, Hayhoe said, \"Climate change is here and now, and not in some distant time or place,\" adding that \"The choices we're making today will have a significant impact on our future.\" She has also served as an expert reviewer for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Fourth Assessment Report.\n\nProfessor John Abraham has called her \"perhaps the best communicator on climate change.\" \"Time\" magazine listed her among the 100 most influential people in 2014. Also in 2014, the American Geophysical Union awarded her its climate communications award. The first episode of the documentary TV series \"Years of Living Dangerously\" features her work and her communication with religious audiences in Texas.\n\nHayhoe wrote a chapter of a book by Newt Gingrich about climate change in 2009, and, in 2011, was told by Gingrich's co-author, Terry Maple, that it had been accepted. Gingrich announced in late 2011 that this chapter was dropped on his request, saying \"We didn't know that they were doing that, and we told them to kill it.\"\n\nUpon finding out that her chapter had been dropped, Hayhoe stated, \"I had not heard that\" and tweeted that she had spent over 100 unpaid hours working on the chapter. Some have speculated that Gingrich dropped her chapter because Marc Morano, who is not a scientist, wrote many articles on his website, \"Climate Depot\", attacking her findings. This, as well as her appearing on Bill O'Reilly's TV show, led to her receiving nearly 200 hate-mail messages the following day. Shortly after, the conservative PAC American Tradition Institute filed a request under the Freedom of Information Act for Hayhoe's public university employer to release her notes and emails related to the writing of the unpublished chapter for the Gingrich book.\n\nHayhoe, who is an evangelical Christian, is the daughter of missionaries. She has stated that admitting her life as a Christian and a scientist is \"like coming out of the closet\". Her father, Doug Hayhoe, is a former science and technology coordinator for the Toronto District School Board, and is currently an associate professor of education at Tyndale University College and Seminary in Toronto. Hayhoe credits her father as an inspiration with regard to her belief that science and religion do not have to conflict with one another.\n\nShe met her husband, Andrew Farley, while doing graduate studies at the University of Illinois. Farley is a linguist and the pastor of an evangelical church in Lubbock, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1779205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1779205", "title": "Kerguelen Plateau", "text": "Kerguelen Plateau\n\nThe Kerguelen Plateau (, ) is an oceanic plateau and a large igneous province (LIP) located on the Antarctic Plate, in the southern Indian Ocean. It is also a microcontinent and submerged continent. It is about to the southwest of Australia and is nearly three times the size of Japan. The plateau extends for more than in a northwest–southeast direction and lies in deep water.\n\nThe plateau was produced by the Kerguelen hotspot, starting with or following the breakup of Gondwana about 130 million years ago. A small portion of the plateau breaks sea level, forming the Kerguelen Islands (a French territory) plus the Heard and McDonald Islands (an Australian territory). Intermittent volcanism continues on the Heard and McDonald Islands.\n\nSymmetrically across the Indian Ocean ridge and due west of Australia is the Broken Ridge underwater volcanic plateau, which at one time was contiguous with the Kerguelen Plateau before rifting by the mid-ocean ridge.\n\nTo the north of Broken Ridge is the linear Ninety East Ridge which continues almost due north into the Bay of Bengal and is considered to be a hotspot track.\n\nOne of the largest igneous provinces (LIPs) in the world, the Kerguelen Plateau covers an area of and rises above the surrounding oceanic basins.\n\nLocated on the Antarctic Plate, the Kerguelen Plateau is separated from Australia by the Southeast Indian Ridge (SEIR) and from Africa by the Southwest Indian Ridge (SWIR). These two ridges meet at the Rodriguez Triple Junction. It is separated from Antarctica by Princess Elizabeth Trough and the Cooperation Sea. The eastern margin north of the William Ridge is steep and formed during the breakup between the Kerguelen Plateau and the Broken Ridge. The southern part of the margin is separated from the Australian–Antarctic Basin by the deep Labuan Basin.\n\nFrom the initial opening of the Indian Ocean until present, the Kerguelen hotspot has produced several now widely dispersed large-scale structures. The Southern Kerguelen Plateau (SKP) formed 119–110 ; the Elan Bank 108–107 , named by Dennis E. Hayes of Lamont Doherty Easth Observatory}; the Central Kerguelen Plateau (CKP) 101–100 ; the Broken Ridge (connected to CKP before the Eocene breakup) formed 95–94 ; the Skiff Bank (east of Kerguelen archipelago) 69–68 ; Northern Kerguelen Plateau (NKP) 35–34 ; Ninety East Ridge formed 82–38  north to south; the Bunbury Basalt (western Australia) formed at 137-130.5 ; the Naturaliste Plateau (offshore western Australia) formed 132-128 Ma ; the Rajmahal Traps in northeast India 118–117 ; and finally lamprophyres in India and Antarctica 115–114 .\n\nThe oldest volcanism that can be attributed to the Kerguelen plume are the Bunbury Basalt (137-130.5 ) and Naturaliste Plateau (132-128 Ma ) in southwestern Australia, and the Rajmahal Traps in eastern India (118 ). The formation of the oldest portion of the Kerguelen LIP and these continental basalts are linked to the opening of the eastern Indian Ocean.\nThe Bunbury Basalt is not of flood basalt dimension which suggest that the mantle underlying the newly formed Kerguelen hotspot was neither significantly hot, wet, or voluminous. In contrast, the magmatism that produced the Australia–India breakup 136–158  created the Wallaby Plateau, but no known hotspot has been linked to this event.\n\nThe output from the Kerguelen hotspot peaked 120–95 , 12–70  after the India–Antarctica breakup. No ridges or hotspot tracks such as Walvis–Rio Grande, Chagos–Laccadive, Greenland–Scotland have been found in the Princess Elizabeth Trough between SKP and Antarctica or along India's conjugate eastern continental margin. The relation between the Kerguelen hotspot and these continental breakup and volcanic margins is instead similar to that between the Réunion hotspot and the Deccan Traps and the breakup between western India and the Seychelles.\n\nThe peak output of the Kerguelen hotspot coincides with one or several microcontinent formations, such as the Elan Bank. Since the Indian Ocean began to open about 130 , the Kerguelen hotspot has moved 3–10° southward and, consequently, the spreading ridge between India and Antarctica has jumped northward one or several times. Parts of the Kerguelen Plateau, the Elan Bank and the SKP, were originally attached to India and are composed of continental lithosphere. One or several ridge jumps transformed the Elan Bank into a microcontinent and dispersed continental fragments in the SKP, and these structures were eventually left behind as India moved northward. The ridge jump that made the Elan Bank a microcontinent occurred after 124 .\nThe development of the Southern Kerguelen Plateau (SKP) 118–119  contributed to the oceanic anoxic event 1.\n\nAround 83.5  sea floor spreading between India and Antarctica was asymmetric in the Kerguelen Plateau region with two-thirds of the sea floor created being added to the Antarctic Plate. A ridge jump eventually transferred parts of the Kerguelen Plateau from the Indian Plate to the Antarctic Plate.\n\nThe Kerguelen hotspot produced the long Ninety East Ridge 82–38 , and geochemical evidence suggests that this occurred at or near a spreading ridge. The lack of a conjugate structure on the Antarctic Plate, however, makes it unlikely that the hotspot was located at a spreading ridge during this long period. As the Antarctic Plate then moved over the Kerguelen hotspot the NKP formed over relatively old oceanic crust. Flood basalts in the Kerguelen archipelago formed 30–24  and less voluminous and more recent volcanism occurred until 1 . During the last 21  volcanic structures have formed on the CKP, including Heard Island, and both Heard and McDonald Islands have had recent eruptions.\n\n65 , the CKP–Broken Ridge LIP was located near the Kerguelen plume and the plate boundaries of the Indian Ocean. The LIP was the product of 25  of relatively high magmatic activity followed by a 40  period of lower activity.\n\n described tilted basement blocks near the Kerguelen archipelago and was the first to identify the Kerguelen Plateau as of continental origin, in contrast to other LIPs.\n\nThe presence of soil layers in the basalt which included charcoal and conglomerate fragments of gneiss indicate that much of the plateau was above sea level as what is termed a microcontinent for three periods between 100 million years ago and 20 million years ago. (The charcoal was made by wildfires started by lightning or lava flows.) \nLarge parts of the now submarine Southern (SKP) and Central Kerguelen Plateaus (CKP) were subaerial during the formation of the LIP. The SKP probably formed an island of with major peaks reaching above sea level.\n\nThe Kerguelen microcontinent may have been covered by dense conifer forest in the mid-Cretaceous.\n\nIt finally sank 20 million years ago and is now below sea level.\n\nDuring the austral summer there is a high density of migratory whales including sperm, minke, and humpback whales along the southern end of the Kerguelen Plateau and the northern part of the adjacent Princess Elizabeth Trough. These whales choose this location for foraging because the Southern Front of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current is steered off by the plateau — resulting in a poleward extent for the Southern Front only found near the Kerguelen Plateau. This brings shoaled, nutrient-rich Upper Circumpolar Deep Water to the surface which brings macronutrients to the surface. Ice is additionally advected north along the eastern side of the plateau.\n\n"}
{"id": "53099942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53099942", "title": "Lambda Phoenicis", "text": "Lambda Phoenicis\n\nThe Bayer designation λ Phoenicis (Lambda Phoenicis) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Phoenix:\n"}
{"id": "2383086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2383086", "title": "Language development", "text": "Language development\n\nLanguage development is a process starting early in human life. Infants start without knowing a language, yet by 10 months, babies can distinguish speech sounds and engage in babbling. Some research has shown that the earliest learning begins in utero when the fetus starts to recognize the sounds and speech patterns of its mother's voice and differentiate them from other sounds after birth.\n\nTypically, children develop receptive language abilities before their verbal or expressive language develops. Receptive language is the internal processing and understanding of language. As receptive language continues to increase, expressive language begins to slowly develop.\n\nUsually, productive language is considered to begin with a stage of pre-verbal communication in which infants use gestures and vocalizations to make their intents known to others. According to a general principle of development, new forms then take over old functions, so that children learn words to express the same communicative functions they had already expressed by proverbial means.\n\nLanguage development is thought to proceed by ordinary processes of learning in which children acquire the forms, meanings, and uses of words and utterances from the linguistic input. Children often begin reproducing the words that they are repetitively exposed to. The method in which we develop language skills is universal; however, the major debate is how the rules of syntax are acquired. There are two major approaches to syntactic development, an empiricist account by which children learn all syntactic rules from the linguistic input, and a nativist approach by which some principles of syntax are innate and are transmitted through the human genome.\n\nThe nativist theory, proposed by Noam Chomsky, argues that language is a unique human accomplishment, and can be attributed to either \"millions of years of evolution\" or to \"principles of neural organization that may be even more deeply grounded in physical law\". Chomsky says that all children have what is called an innate language acquisition device (LAD). Theoretically, the LAD is an area of the brain that has a set of universal syntactic rules for all languages. This device provides children with the ability to make sense of knowledge and construct novel sentences with minimal external input and little experience. Chomsky's claim is based upon the view that what children hear—their linguistic input—is insufficient to explain how they come to learn language. He argues that linguistic input from the environment is limited and full of errors. Therefore, nativists assume that it is impossible for children to learn linguistic information solely from their environment. However, because children possess this LAD, they are in fact, able to learn language despite incomplete information from their environment. Their capacity to learn language is also attributed to the theory of universal grammar (UG), which posits that a certain set of structural rules are innate to humans, independent of sensory experience. This view has dominated linguistic theory for over fifty years and remains highly influential, as witnessed by the number of articles in journals and books.\n\nThe empiricist theory suggests, contra Chomsky, that there is enough information in the linguistic input children receive and therefore, there is no need to assume an innate language acquisition device exists (see above). Rather than a LAD evolved specifically for language, empiricists believe that general brain processes are sufficient enough for language acquisition. During this process, it is necessary for the child to actively engage with their environment. For a child to learn language, the parent or caregiver adopts a particular way of appropriately communicating with the child; this is known as child-directed speech (CDS). CDS is used so that children are given the necessary linguistic information needed for their language. Empiricism is a general approach and sometimes goes along with the interactionist approach. Statistical language acquisition, which falls under empiricist theory, suggests that infants acquire language by means of pattern perception.\n\nOther researchers embrace an interactionist perspective, consisting of social-interactionist theories of language development. In such approaches, children learn language in the interactive and communicative context, learning language forms for meaningful moves of communication. These theories focus mainly on the caregiver's attitudes and attentiveness to their children in order to promote productive language habits.\n\nAn older empiricist theory, the behaviorist theory proposed by B. F. Skinner suggested that language is learned through operant conditioning, namely, by imitation of stimuli and by reinforcement of correct responses. This perspective has not been widely accepted at any time, but by some accounts, is experiencing a resurgence. New studies use this theory now to treat individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders. Additionally, Relational Frame Theory is growing from the behaviorist theory, which is important for Acceptance and Commitment Therapy. Some empiricist theory accounts today use behaviorist models.\n\nOther relevant theories about language development include Piaget's theory of cognitive development, which considers the development of language as a continuation of general cognitive development and Vygotsky's social theories that attribute the development of language to an individual's social interactions and growth.\n\nEvolutionary biologists are skeptical of the claim that syntactic knowledge is transmitted in the human genome. However, many researchers claim that the ability to acquire such a complicated system is unique to the human species. Non-biologists also tend to believe that our ability to learn spoken language may have been developed through the evolutionary process and that the foundation for language may be passed down genetically. The ability to speak and understand human language requires speech production skills and abilities as well as multisensory integration of sensory processing abilities.\n\nOne hotly debated issue is whether the biological contribution includes capacities specific to language acquisition, often referred to as universal grammar. For fifty years, linguist Noam Chomsky has argued for the hypothesis that children have innate, language-specific abilities that facilitate and constrain language learning. In particular, he has proposed that humans are biologically prewired to learn language at a certain time and in a certain way, arguing that children are born with a language acquisition device (LAD). However, since he developed the minimalist program, his latest version of theory of syntactic structure, Chomsky has reduced the elements of universal grammar, which he believes are prewired in humans to just the principle of recursion, thus voiding most of the nativist endeavor.\n\nResearchers who believe that grammar is learned rather than innate, have hypothesized that language learning results from general cognitive abilities and the interaction between learners and their human interactants. It has also recently been suggested that the relatively slow development of the prefrontal cortex in humans may be one reason that humans are able to learn language, whereas other species are not. Further research has indicated the influence of the FOXP2 gene.\n\nLanguage development and processing begins before birth. Evidence has shown that there is language development occurring antepartum. DeCasper and Spence performed a study in 1986 by having mothers read aloud during the last few weeks of pregnancy. When the infants were born, they were then tested. They were read aloud a story while sucking on a pacifier; the story was either the story read by the mother when the infant was in utero or a new story. The pacifier used was able to determine the rate of sucking that the infant was performing. When the story that the mother had read before was heard, the sucking of the pacifier was modified. This did not occur during the story that the infant had not heard before. The results for this experiment had shown that the infants were able to recognize what they had heard in utero, providing insight that language development had been occurring in the last six weeks of pregnancy.\n\nThroughout the first year of life, infants are unable to communicate with language. Instead, infants communicate with gestures. This phenomenon is known as prelinguistic gestures, which are nonverbal ways that infants communicate that also had a plan backed with the gesture. Examples of these could be pointing at an object, tugging on the shirt of a parent to get the parent's attention, etc. Harding, 1983, devised the major criteria that come along with the behavior of prelinguistic gestures and their intent to communicate. There are three major criteria that go along with a prelinguistic gesture: waiting, persistence, and ultimately, development of alternative plans. This process usually occurs around 8 months of age, where an appropriate scenario may be of a child tugging on the shirt of a parent to wait for the attention of the parent who would then notice the infant, which causes the infant to point to something they desire. This would describe the first two criteria. The development of alternative plans may arise if the parent does not acknowledge what the infant wants, the infant may entertain itself to satisfy the previous desire.\n\nWhen children reach about 15–18 months of age, language acquisition flourishes. There is a surge in word production resulting from the growth of the cortex. Infants begin to learn the words that form a sentence and within the sentence, the word endings can be interpreted. Elissa Newport and colleagues (1999) found that humans learn first about the sounds of a language, and then move on to how to speak the language. This shows how infants learn the end of a word and know that a new word is being spoken. From this step, infants are then able to determine the structure of a language and word.\n\nIt appears that during the early years of language development females exhibit an advantage over males of the same age. When infants between the age of 16 to 22 months were observed interacting with their mothers, a female advantage was obvious. The females in this age range showed more spontaneous speech production than the males and this finding was not due to mothers speaking more with daughters than sons. In addition, boys between 2 and 6 years as a group did not show higher performance in language development over their girl counterparts on experimental assessments. In studies using adult populations, 18 and over, it seems that the female advantage may be task dependent. Depending on the task provided, a female advantage may or may not be present. Similarly, one study found that out of the 5.5% of American children with language impairments, 7.2% are male, and 3.8% are female. There are many different suggested explanations for this gender gap in language impairment prevalence.\n\nIt is currently believed that in regards to brain lateralization males are left-lateralized, while females are bilateralized. Studies on patients with unilateral lesions have provided evidence that females are in fact more bilateralized with their verbal abilities. It seems that when a female has experienced a lesion to the left hemisphere, she is better able to compensate for this damage than a male can. If a male has a lesion in the left hemisphere, his verbal abilities are greatly impaired in comparison to a control male of the same age without that damage. However, these results may also be task-dependent as well as time-dependent.\n\nShriberg, Tomblin, and McSweeny (1999) suggest that the fine motor skills necessary for correct speech may develop more slowly in males. This could explain why some of the language impairments in young males seems to spontaneously improve over time.\n\nIt is also suggested that the gender gap in language impairment prevalence could also be explained by the clinical over diagnosis of males. Males tend to be clinically over diagnosed with a variety of disorders.\n\nThe study by Shriber et al. (1999) further explains that this gap in the prevalence of language impairment could be because males tend to be more visible. These researchers reveal that male children tend to act out behaviorally when they have any sort of disorder, while female children tend to turn inward and develop emotional disorders as well. Thus, the high ratio of males with language impairments may be connected with the fact that males are more visible, and thus more often diagnosed.\n\nResearch in writing development has been limited in psychology. In the research that has been conducted, focus has generally centred on the development of written and spoken language and their connection. Spoken and written skills could be considered linked. Researchers believe that children's spoken language influences their written language. When a child learns to write they need to master letter formation, spelling, punctuation and they also have to gain an understanding of the structure and the organisational patterns involved in written language.\n\nKroll's theory is one of the most significant on children's writing development. He proposed that children's writing development is split into 4 phases. Kroll explicitly states that these phases are 'artificial' in the sense that the boundaries between the phases are imprecise and he recognises that each child is different, thus their development is unique. The phases of writing development have been highlighted to give the reader a broad outline of what phases a child goes through during writing development; however when studying an individual's development in depth, the phases may be disregarded to an extent.\n\nThe first of Kroll's phases is the preparation for writing phase. In this phase the child is believed to grasp the technical skills needed for writing, allowing them to create the letters needed to write the words the children say. In this initial phase children experience many opportunities to extend their spoken language skills. Speaking and writing are considered fairly separate processes here, as children's writing is less well developed at this stage, whereas their spoken language is becoming more skilled.\n\nKroll considers the second phase in writing development to be consolidation. Here, children begin to consolidate spoken and written language. In this phase children's writing skills rely heavily on their spoken language skills, and their written and spoken language becoming integrated. Children's written language skills become stronger as they use their spoken language skills to improve their writing. Then in turn, when a development in children's written language skills is seen, their spoken language skills have also improved. A child's written language in this phase mirrors their spoken language.\n\nIn the third phase, differentiation, children begin to learn that written language regularly differs in structure and style from spoken language. The growth from consolidation to differentiation can be challenging for some children to grasp. Children can 'struggle with the transformation from the basically overt language of speech to the essentially covert activity of writing'. In this phase, the child learns that writing is generally considered more formal than spoken language, which is thought to be casual and conversational. Here, it is believed that children begin to understand that writing serves a purpose.\n\nKroll considers the last phase to be the systematic integration phase. A differentiation and integration between the child's speaking and writing can be seen in this phase. This means that speaking and writing have 'well-articulated forms and functions'; however, they are also integrated in the sense that they use the same system. As a result of the individual being aware of the audience, context and reason they are communicating, both written and spoken language are able to overlap and take several forms at this stage.\n\nKroll used the four phases to give an explanation and generalise about the development of these two aspects of language. The highest significance is placed on the second and third phase, consolidation and differentiation respectively. It could be concluded that children's written and spoken language, in certain respects, become more similar to age, maturation, and experience; however, they are also increasingly different in other respects. The content of the skills are more similar, but the approach used for both writing and speaking are different. When writing and speaking development is looked at more closely it can be seen that certain elements of written and spoken language are differentiating and other elements are integrating, all in the same phase.\n\nPerera conducted a survey and her view mirrors that of Kroll to the extent that she used Kroll's four phases. When a child undergoes initial learning of the written language, they have not yet fully mastered the oral language. It is clear that their written language development is aided by their spoken language; it can also be said that their spoken language development is aided by the development of their written language skills. Kantor and Rubin believe that not all individuals successfully move into the final stage of integration. Perera is also aware that it is hard to assign chronological ages to each phase of writing development, because each child is an individual, and also the phases are 'artificial'.\n\nOther than Kroll's theory, there are four principles on early patterns in writing development discussed by Marie Clay in her book \"What Did I Write?\". The four principles are recurring principle, the generative principle, the sign principle, and the inventory principle. The recurring principle involves patterns and shapes in English writing that develop throughout writing development. The generative principle incorporates the idea that a writer can create new meanings by organizing units of writing and letters of the alphabet. The sign principle is understanding that the word print also involves paper arrangement and word boundaries. And lastly, the inventory principle is the fact that children have the urge to list and name items that they are familiar with, and because of this they can practice their own writing skills.\n\nMore recent research has also explored writing development. Myhill concentrated on the development of written language skills in adolescents aged 13 to 15. Myhill discovered that the more mature writer was aware of the shaping of text, and used non-finite clauses, which mirrored Perera's results (1984). Other researchers focused on writing development up until late adolescence, as there has been a limited research in this area. Chrisite and Derewianke recognize that the survey conducted by Perera (1984) is still one of the most significant research studies in the writing development field and believe Perera's study is similar to theirs. Chrisite and Derewianke (2010) again propose four phases of writing development. The researchers believe that the process of writing development does not stop when an individual leaves formal education, and again, the researchers highlight that these phases are flexible in their onset. The first phase focuses on spoken language as the main aid for writing development, and the development then takes its course reaching the fourth phase, which continues beyond formal education.\n\nThe environment a child develops in has influences on language development. The environment provides language input for the child to process. Speech by adults to children help provide the child with correct language usage repetitively. Environmental influences on language development are explored in the tradition of social interactionist theory by such researchers as Jerome Bruner, Alison Gopnik, Andrew Meltzoff, Anat Ninio, Roy Pea, Catherine Snow, Ernest Moerk and Michael Tomasello. Jerome Bruner who laid the foundations of this approach in the 1970s, emphasized that adult \"scaffolding\" of the child's attempts to master linguistic communication is an important factor in the developmental process.\n\nOne component of the young child's linguistic environment is child-directed speech (also known as baby talk or motherese), which is language spoken in a higher pitch than normal with simple words and sentences. Although the importance of its role in developing language has been debated, many linguists think that it may aid in capturing the infant's attention and maintaining communication. When children begin to communicate with adults, this motherese speech allows the child the ability to discern the patterns in language and to experiment with language.\n\nThroughout existing research, it is concluded that children exposed to extensive vocabulary and complex grammatical structures more quickly develop language and also have a more accurate syntax than children raised in environments without complex grammar exposed to them. With motherese, the mother talks to the child and responds back to the child, whether it be a babble the child made or a short sentence. While doing this, the adult prompts the child to continue communicating, which may help a child develop language sooner than children raised in environments where communication is not fostered.\n\nChild-directed speech concentrates on small core vocabulary, here and now topics, exaggerated facial expressions and gestures, frequent questioning, para-linguistic changes, and verbal rituals. An infant is least likely to produce vocalizations when changed, fed, or rocked. The infant is more likely to produce vocalizations in response to a nonverbal behavior such as touching or smiling.\n\nChild-directed speech also catches the child's attention, and in situations where words for new objects are being expressed to the child, this form of speech may help the child recognize the speech cues and the new information provided. Data shows that children raised in highly verbal families had higher language scores than those children raised in low verbal families. Continuously hearing complicated sentences throughout language development increases the child's ability to understand these sentences and then to use complicated sentences as they develop. Studies have shown that students enrolled in high language classrooms have two times the growth in complex sentences usage than students in classrooms where teachers do not frequently use complex sentences.\n\nAdults use strategies other than child-directed speech like recasting, expanding, and labeling:\nSome language development experts have characterized child directed speech in stages. Primarily, the parents use repetition and also variation to maintain the infant's attention. Secondly, the parent simplifies speech to help in language learning. Third, any speech modifications maintain the responsiveness of the child. These modifications develop into a conversation that provides context for the development.\n\nWhile most children throughout the world develop language at similar rates and without difficulty, cultural and socioeconomic differences have been shown to influence development. An example of cultural differences in language development can be seen when comparing the interactions of mothers in the United States with their infants with mothers in Japan. Mothers in the United States use more questions, are more information-oriented, and use more grammatically correct utterances with their 3-month-olds. Mothers in Japan, on the other hand, use more physical contact with their infants, and more emotion-oriented, nonsense, and environmental sounds, as well as baby talk, with their infants. These differences in interaction techniques reflect differences in \"each society's assumptions about infants and adult-to-adult cultural styles of talking.\"\n\nSpecifically in North American culture, maternal race, education, and socioeconomic class influence parent-child interactions in the early linguistic environment. When speaking to their infants, mothers from middle class \"incorporate language goals more frequently in their play with their infants,\" and in turn, their infants produce twice as many vocalizations as lower class infants. Mothers from higher social classes who are better educated also tend to be more verbal, and have more time to spend engaging with their infants in language. Additionally, lower class infants may receive more language input from their siblings and peers than from their mothers.\n\nIt is crucial that children are allowed to socially interact with other people who can vocalize and respond to questions. For language acquisition to develop successfully, children must be in an environment that allows them to communicate socially in that language. Children who have learnt sound, meaning and grammatical system of language that can produce clear sentence may still not have the ability to use language effectively in various social circumstance. Social interaction is the footing stone of language.\n\nThere are a few different theories as to why and how children develop language. The most popular—and yet heavily debated—explanation is that language is acquired through imitation. This theory has been challenged by Lester Butler, who argues that children do not use the grammar that an adult would use. Furthermore, \"children's language is highly resistant to alteration by adult intervention\", meaning that children do not use the corrections given to them by an adult. The two most accepted theories in language development are psychological and functional. Psychological explanations focus on the mental processes involved in childhood language learning. Functional explanations look at the social processes involved in learning the first language.\n\n\nEach component has its own appropriate developmental periods.\n\nBabies can recognize their mother's voice from as early as few weeks old. It seems like they have a unique system that is designed to recognize speech sound. Furthermore, they can differentiate between certain speech sounds. A significant first milestone in phonetic development is the babbling stage (around the age of six months). This is the baby's way of practicing his control over that apparatus. Babbling is independent from the language. Deaf children for instance, babble the same way as hearing ones.\nAs the baby grows older, the babbling increases in frequency and starts to sound more like words (around the age of twelve months). Although every child is an individual with different pace of mastering speech, there is a tendency to an order of which speech sounds are mastered:\n\nAs the children's ability to produce sound develops, their ability to perceive the phonetic contrast of their language develops. The better they get in mastering the sound, the more sensitive they become to the changes in those sounds in their language once they get exposed to it. They learn to isolate individual phenomes while speaking which also serves as the basis of reading.\n\nSome processes that occur in early age:\n\n\nFrom shortly after birth to around one year, the baby starts to make speech sounds. \nAt around two months, the baby engages in cooing, which mostly consists of vowel sounds. At around four to six months, cooing turns into babbling, which is the repetitive consonant-vowel combinations. Babies understand more than they are able to say. In this 0–8 months range, the child is engaged in vocal play of vegetative sounds, laughing, and cooing.\n\nOnce the child hits the 8–12 month, range the child engages in canonical babbling, i.e. dada as well as variegated babbling. This jargon babbling with intonational contours the language being learned.\n\nFrom 12–24 months, babies can recognize the correct pronunciation of familiar words. Babies also use phonological strategies to simplify word pronunciation. Some strategies include repeating the first consonant-vowel in a multisyllable word ('TV' → 'didi') or deleting unstressed syllables in a multisyllable word ('banana' → 'nana'). Within this first year, two word utterances and two syllable words emerge. This period is often called the holophrastic stage of development, because one word conveys as much meaning as an entire phrase. For instance, the simple word \"milk\" can imply that the child is requesting milk, noting spilled milk, sees a cat drinking milk, etc. One study found that children at this age were capable of comprehending 2-word sentences, producing 2–3 word sentences, and naming basic colors.\n\nBy 24–30 months awareness of rhyme emerges as well as rising intonation. One study concludes that children between the ages of 24–30 months typically can produce 3–4 word sentence, create a story when prompted by pictures, and at least 50% of their speech is intelligible.\n\nBy 36–60 months, phonological awareness continues to improve as well as pronunciation. At this age, children have a considerable experience with language and are able to form simple sentences that are 3 words in length. They use basic prepositions, pronouns, and plurals. They become immensely creative in their language use and learn to categorize items such as recognizing that a shoe is not a fruit. At this age, children also learn to ask questions and negate sentences to develop these questions. Over time, their syntax gets more and more unique and complex. A study reveals that at this age, a child's speech should be at least 75% intelligible.\n\nBy 6–10 years, children can master syllable stress patterns, which helps distinguish slight differences between similar words.\n\nThe average child masters about fifty words by the age of eighteen months. These might include words such as, milk, water, juice and apple (noun-like words). Afterwards they acquire 12 to 16 words a day. By the age of six, they master about 13 to 14 thousand words.\n\nThe most frequent words include adjective-like expressions for displeasure and rejection such as 'no'. They also include social interaction words, such as \"please\" and \"bye\".\n\nThere are three stages for learning the meaning of new words:\n\n\nIn other words, when the child hears the word \"sheep\" he overgeneralizes it to other animals that look like sheep by the external appearance, such as white, wooly and four-legged animal.\n\nContextual clues are a major factor in the child's vocabulary development.\n\nThe child uses contextual clues to draw inferences about the category and meaning of new words. By doing so, the child distinguishes between names and ordinary nouns.\n\nFor example, when an object is presented to the child with the determiner \"a\" (a cat, a dog, a bottle) he perceives it as an ordinary noun.\n\nHowever, when the child hears a noun without the determiner, he perceives it as a name, for instance \"this is Mary\".\n\nChildren usually make correct meaning associations with the words that the adults say. However, sometimes they make semantic errors.\n\nThere are a few types of semantic errors:\n\nOverextension: When a child says or hears a word, they might associate what they see or hear as more generalized concept than the real meaning of the word. For example, if they say \"cat\", they might overextend it to other animals with same features.\n\nUnderextension: It involves the use of lexical items in an overly restrictive fashion. In other words, the child focuses on core members of a certain category. For example: 'cat' may only refer to the family cat and no other cat, or 'dog' may refer to certain kinds of dogs that the child is exposed to.\n\nVerb meaning: when a pre-school child hears the verb 'fill', he understands it as the action 'pour' rather than the result, which is 'make full'.\n\nDimensional terms: the first dimensional adjectives acquired are big and small because they belong to the size category. The size category is the most general one. Later children acquire the single dimension adjectives, such as, tall-short, long-short, high-low. Eventually they acquire the adjectives that describe the secondary dimension, such as thick-thin, wide-narrow and deep-shallow.\n\nFrom birth to one year, comprehension (the language we understand) develops before production (the language we use). There is about a 5-month lag in between the two. Babies have an innate preference to listen to their mother's voice. Babies can recognize familiar words and use preverbal gestures.\n\nWithin the first 12–18 months semantic roles are expressed in one word speech including agent, object, location, possession, nonexistence and denial. Words are understood outside of routine games but the child still needs contextual support for lexical comprehension.\n\n18–24 months Prevalent relations are expressed such as agent-action, agent-object, action-location.\nAlso, there is a vocabulary spurt between 18–24 months, which includes fast mapping. Fast mapping is the babies' ability to learn a lot of new things quickly. The majority of the babies' new vocabulary consists of object words (nouns) and action words (verbs).\n\n30–36 months The child is able to use and understand why question and basic spatial terms such as in, on or under.\n\n36–42 months There is an understanding of basic color words and kinship terms. Also, the child has an understanding of the semantic relationship between adjacent and conjoined sentences, including casual and contrastive.\n\n42–48 months When and how questions are comprehended as well as basic shape words such as circle, square and triangle.\n\n48–60 months Knowledge of letter names and sounds emerges, as well as numbers.\n\nBy 3–5 years, children usually have difficulty using words correctly. Children experience many problems such as underextensions, taking a general word and applying it specifically (for example, 'cartoons' specifically for 'Mickey Mouse') and overextensions, taking a specific word and applying it too generally (example, 'ant' for any insect). However, children coin words to fill in for words not yet learned (for example, someone is a cooker rather than a chef because a child may not know what a chef is). Children can also understand metaphors.\n\nFrom 6–10 years, children can understand meanings of words based on their definitions. They also are able to appreciate the multiple meanings of words and use words precisely through metaphors and puns. Fast mapping continues.\nWithin these years, children are now able to acquire new information from written texts and can explain relationships between multiple meaning words. Common idioms are also understood.\n\nThe development of syntactic structures follows a particular pattern and reveals much on the nature of language acquisition, which has several stages. According to O'Grady and Cho (2011), the first stage, occurring between the ages of 12–18 months, is called \"one-word stage.\" In this stage, children cannot form syntactic sentences and therefore use one-word utterances called \"holophrases\" that express an entire sentence. In addition, children's comprehension is more advanced than their production abilities. For example, a child who wants candy may say \"candy\" instead of expressing a full sentence.\n\nThe following stage is the \"two-word stage\" in which children begin to produce \"mini-sentences\" that are composed of two words, such as \"doggy bark\" and \"Ken water\" (O'Grady & Cho, 2011, p. 346). At this stage, it is unclear whether children have an understanding of underlying rules of the language such as syntactic categories, since their \"mini-sentences\" often lack distinction between the categories. However, children do exhibit sensitivity to sentence structures and they frequently use appropriate word order.\n\nAfter several months of speech that is restricted to short utterances, children enter the \"telegraphic stage\" and begin to produce longer and more complex grammatical structures (O'Grady & Cho, 2011, p. 347). This stage is characterized by production of complex structures as children begin to form phrases consisting of a subject and a complement in addition to use of modifiers and composition of full sentences. Children use mostly content words and their sentences lack function words. For example, a child may say \"fill cup water,\" instead of saying, \"Fill my cup with water.\" Subsequently, language acquisition continues to develop rapidly and children begin to acquire complex grammar that shows understanding of intricate linguistic features, such as the ability to switch the position of words in sentences.\n\nThroughout the process of syntactic development, children acquire and develop question structures. According to O'Grady and Cho (2011), at the early stages of language acquisition, children ask yes-no questions by rising intonation alone as they develop awareness to auxiliary verbs only at a later stage. When auxiliary verbs make their appearance, it takes children a few months before they are able to use inversion in yes-no questions. The development of WH- questions occurs between the ages of two and four, when children acquire auxiliary verbs that then leads to the ability to use inversion in questions. However, some children find inversion easier in yes-no questions than in WH- questions, since the position of the WH- word and the auxiliary verb both must changed (e.g., \"You are going where?\" instead of \"Where are you going?\").\n\nMorphological structures development occurs over a period of several years. Before language is acquired, children lack any use of morphological structures.\n\nThe morphological structures that children acquire during their childhood, and even up to the early school years, are: determiners (a, the), -ing inflection, plural –s, auxiliary be, possessive –s, third person singular –s, past tense –ed).\n\nWhen children start using them they tend to overgeneralize the rules and project them upon all the words in the language, including irregulars. For example: if a child knows the –ed (past tense) there is a possibility that they'll say \"I eated\"( Man-mans cat-cats). These errors result from overgeneralization of rules.\n\nThis overgeneralization is very noticeable, in fact, children do that in less than 25 percent of the time at any point before reducing that percentage. Then they improve their mastery, which can be tested in various ways, such as the \"wug test\" (Berko, 1958).\n\nChildren often figure out quickly frequent irregular verbs, such as go and buy rather than less common ones, such as win. This suggests that children must hear the word several hundred times before they are able to use it correctly.\n\nThis development of bound morphemes is similar in order among children, for example: -\"ing\" is acquired before the article \"the\". The interesting part though is that parents tend to use a different order while speaking to their kids, for example, parents use the article 'the' more frequently than -ing. Meaning, other factors determine the order of acquisition, such as:\n\n\nAs it comes to word formation processes such as derivation and compounding, the earliest derivational suffixes to show up in children's speech are those they hear adults use most frequently. (-er as the *'doer' of the action such as walker.) When it comes to compounds, children first make up names for agents and instruments that they don't know by a pattern (N-N), though some of them do not follow the pattern (*cutter grass for grass cutter). Then, they might have the right structure but the words are inappropriate since English already has words with the intended meaning such as car-smoke = exhaust. This process points to a preference for building words from other words, thus place less demand on memory than learning an entirely new word for each concept.\n\nGrammar describes the way sentences of a language are constructed, which includes both syntax and morphology.\n\nSyntactic development involves the ways that various morphemes are ordered or combined in sentences.Morphemes, which are basic units of meaning in language, get added as children learn to produce simple sentences and become more precise speakers. Morphemes can be whole words (like \"happy\") or parts of words that change meaning of words (\"un\"happy). Brown proposed a stage model that describes the various types of morphological structures that are developed in English and the age range within which they are normally acquired.\n\nStage I: From 15–30 months, children start using telegraphic speech, which are two word combinations, for example 'wet diaper'. Brown (1973) observed that 75% of children's two-word utterances could be summarized in the existence of 11 semantic relations:\nStage II: At around 28–36 months, children begin to engage in the production of simple sentences, usually 3 word sentences. These simple sentences follow syntactic rules and are refined gradually as development continues. The morphological developments seen in this age range include use of present progressive (-ing endings), the prepositions \"in\" and \"on\", and regular plurals (-s endings).\n\nStage III: Around 36–42 months, children continue to add morphemes and gradually produce complex grammatical structures. The morphemes that are added at this age include irregular past tense, possessive ('s), and use of the verb 'to be' (It is, I am, etc.).\n\nStage IV:Around 40–46 months children continue to add to their morphological knowledge. This range is associated with use of articles (a or the), regular past tense (-ed endings), and regular third person speech (He likes it).\n\nStage V: Around 42-52+ months children refine the complex grammatical structures and increase their use of morphemes to convey more complex ideas. Children in this stage use irregular third-person speech, the verb 'to be' as an auxiliary verb (She was not laughing), and in its contraction forms (It's, She's, etc.).\n\nFrom birth to one year, babies can engage in joint attention (sharing the attention of something with someone else). Infants also can engage in turn taking activities on the basis of their sensitivity to reactive contingency, which can elicit social responses in the babies from very early on.\n\n\nThere is a large debate regarding whether or not bilingualism is truly beneficial to children. Parents of children often view learning a second language throughout elementary and high school education beneficial to the child. Another perspective dictates that the second language just confuses the child and prevents them from mastering their primary language. Studies have shown that American bilingual children have greater cognitive flexibility, better perceptual skills and tend to be divergent thinkers than monolingual children between the ages of five to ten. Better executive functioning skills are likely because bilingual children have to choose one language to speak while actively suppressing the other. This builds stronger selective attention and cognitive flexibility because these skills are being exercised more. In addition, bilingual children have a better understanding of universal language concepts, such as grammar, because these concepts are applied in multiple languages. However, studies comparing Swedish-Finnish bilingual children and Swedish monolingual children between the ages of five to seven have also shown that the bilingual children have a smaller vocabulary than monolingual children. In another study throughout America, elementary school English-monolingual children performed better in mathematics and reading activities than their non-English-dominant bilingual and non-English monolingual peers from kindergarten to grade five. Learning two languages simultaneously can be beneficial or a hindrance to a child's language and intellectual development. Further research is necessary to continue to shed light on this debate.\n\nIn addition to the study of bilingualism in children, similar research is being conducted in adults. Research findings show that although bilingual benefits are muted in middle adulthood, they are more profound in older age when those who develop dementia experience onset about 4.5 years later in bilingual subjects. The increased attentional control, inhibition, and conflict resolution developed from bilingualism may be accountable for the later onset of dementia.\n\nThere is some research that demonstrates that bilingualism may often be misdiagnosed as a language impairment. A subtopic of bilingualism in the literature is nonstandard varieties of English. While bilingualism and nonstandard varieties of English cannot be considered a true language impairment, they are misrepresented in the population of those receiving language interventions.\n\nA language disorder is the impaired comprehension and or use of a spoken, written, and/or other symbol system. A disorder may involve problems in the following areas: \n\nOlswang and colleagues have identified a series of behaviors in children in the 18–36 month range that are predictors for the need of language intervention.\n\nThese predictors include: \n\nSome of the many conditions that cause language development problems include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53904244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53904244", "title": "Lara-Falcón dry forests", "text": "Lara-Falcón dry forests\n\nThe Lara-Falcón dry forests (NT0219) is an ecoregion that extends inland from the Caribbean coast of northwestern Venezuela.\nTo the east and west the dry forests of the hilly region transition into xeric shrublands.\nThere are several endemic bird species including the vulnerable yellow-shouldered amazon, in demand as a pet.\nThere are few protected areas.\nDespite the relatively infertile soils, a large part of the ecoregion has been converted to farmland or pasturage.\n\nThe Lara-Falcón dry forests ecoregion is in parts of the states of Lara and Falcón.\nIt has an area of .\nIt is south of the Paraguaná Peninsula and north of the Venezuelan Andes to the east of Lake Maracaibo.\nIt extends from just south of Coro, Falcón state, to just north of Barquisimeto, Lara state.\nThe ecoregion extends to the Caribbean sea in the northeast, with patches of Amazon-Orinoco-Southern Caribbean mangroves along some sections of the shore.\nTo the southeast it transitions into the La Costa xeric shrublands and a section of the Cordillera de la Costa montane forests.\nTo the south, west and northwest it gives way to Paraguana xeric scrub.\n\nThe Lara-Falcón dry forests ecoregion contains the Sierra de San Luis, the most eastern part of the Sierra de Falcón.\nIn the south it reaches the Sierra de Aroa.\nThe mountains, valleys and plains have elevations of above sea level.\nThere are varied microclimates at different elevations.\nSoils are relatively infertile ultisols and oxisols.\nMajor rivers include the Hueque, Tocuyo and Aroa.\n\nMean temperatures is .\nAnnual rainfall is .\nAt a sample location at coordinates the Köppen climate classification is \"Aw\": equatorial, winter dry.\nMean temperatures at this location range from in January to in September.\nTotal annual rainfall varies considerably from one year to another, but averages about .\nMonthly rainfall varies from in February to in July.\n\nThe Lara-Falcón dry forests ecoregion is in the neotropical realm, in the tropical and subtropical dry broadleaf forests biome.\nAt a global level, tropical dry forests are the third most critically endangered biome. 48.5 % of the biome has been cleared and only 7.6 % is protected.\n\nThe vegetation is adapted to the dry climate and includes dense deciduous dry forest and thorn forest with cacti, mesquite trees and spiny shrubs.\nSmall patches of seasonal evergreen woodland are found along rivers and on hilltops.\nThe varied microclimates support a variety of types of vegetation including seasonal evergreen lowland forest in the southeast, similar to that found in the Cordillera de la Costa montane forests, dry deciduous lowland forest and submontane forest.\nThe upper slopes and summits of the Sierra San Luis contain dense, medium height cloud forests, with two strata of trees and a dense understory.\nThe dry deciduous forests of the Lara–Falcon hills are fairly open, high, and have dense undergrowth.\nThe main flora are \"Handroanthus billbergii\", \"Roseodendron chryseum\" (araguán), \"Bulnesia arborea\" (Maracaibo lignum vitae), \"Bourreria cumanensis\", \"Caesalpinia coriaria\" (divi-divi), \"Pereskia guamacho\" (leafy cactus) and \"Prosopis juliflora\" (mesquite).\n\nThe only endemic plant is \"Apoplanesia cryptantha\" (\"Fabaceae\" family), found in the eastern deciduous forests.\nOther plant species in the deciduous forests include \"Acanthocereus colombianus\" (cactus), \"Capparis linearis\", \"Capparis odoratissima\", \"Capparis tenuisiliqua\", \"Castela erecta\", \"Cercidium praecox\", \"Croton rhamnifolius\", \"Cynophalla hastata\", \"Cynophalla flexuosa\", \"Ipomoea carnea\" (pink morning glory), \"Jatropha gossypiifolia\" (bellyache bush), \"Libidibia coriaria\", \" Machaerium robiniaefolium\", \"Morisonia americana\", \"Pachira quinata\", \"Pereskia colombiana\", \"Piptadenia flava\", \"Pithecellobium dulce\", \"Pithecellobium unguis-cati\", \"Poponax tortuosa\", \"Randia armata\", \"Stenocereus griseus\" (dagger cactus), \"Talisia olivaeformis\", \"Vachellia farnesiana\" (sweet acacia) and species of the \"Cassia\", \"Eugenia\", \"Guapira\", \"Hyptis\", \"Lonchocarpus\", \"Opuntia\", \"Platymiscium\" and \"Zanthoxylum\" genera.\n\nThe only endemic mammal is the Guajira mouse opossum (\"Marmosa xerophila\"), found in this and other dry forest ecoregions in the north of Venezuela and Colombia.\nIt is mostly found in the deciduous forest.\nThere are many endemic birds in the arid lowland area including the yellow-shouldered amazon (\"Amazona barbadensis\"), Maracaibo tody-flycatcher (\"Todirostrum viridanum\"), pygmy palm swift (\"Tachornis furcata\"), buffy hummingbird (\"Leucippus fallax\"), chestnut piculet (\"Picumnus cinnamomeus\"), white-whiskered spinetail (\"Synallaxis candei\"), black-backed antshrike (\"Thamnophilus melanonotus\"), slender-billed inezia (\"Inezia tenuirostris\"), Tocuyo sparrow (\"Arremonops tocuyensis\") and vermilion cardinal (\"Cardinalis phoeniceus\").\nEndangered birds include the plain-flanked rail (\"Rallus wetmorei\") and the red siskin (\"Spinus cucullatus\").\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund gives the ecoregion the status of \"Critical/Endangered\".\nThe habitat has badly damaged by farming and grazing, particularly the north and center of the region.\nThe vulnerable yellow-shouldered amazon is illegally collected for sale as a pet.\nAs of 2002 of the in the ecoregion, or 34.8% had natural cover or extractive land use, while the remainder had been converted to agricultural land, including pasturage.\nA 2006 book stated that of the of the ecoregion, 64.6% of the habitat had been transformed by human activity.\nOnly 8.1% or was protected.\nThe Cueva de la Quebrada del Toro National Park protects the portion of the ecoregion in the Sierra de Falcón, including a dramatic cave.\nThe Juan Crisóstomo Falcón National Park also protects part of the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "5020794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5020794", "title": "List of Bangladesh tropical cyclones", "text": "List of Bangladesh tropical cyclones\n\nPresent day Bangladesh, due to its unique geographic location, suffers from devastating tropical cyclones frequently. The funnel-shaped northern portion of the Bay of Bengal amplifies the storm surge of landfalling tropical cyclones, affecting thousands of people. Some of the most devastating natural disasters in recorded history with high casualties were tropical cyclones that hit the region now comprising present-day Bangladesh. Among them, the 1970 Bhola cyclone alone claimed approximately 300,000 to 500,000 lives, making it the deadliest tropical cyclone on record.\n\nBangladesh lacks any satellites of its own. The three satellite ground stations, in Betbunia, Talibabad, and Mohakhali, are used to receive feeds from other satellites. Bangladesh Space Research and Remote Sensing Organisation (SPARRSO), a government agency under the Ministry of Defence provides storm predictions and early warnings using feeds from NASA and NOAA's satellites. The warnings are usually given in a scale of 10, with 10 being used for the deadliest storms.\n\nA detailed program for storm prevention was outlined by the government following the cyclone of 1991. A Comprehensive Cyclone Preparedness Programme (CPP) is jointly planned, operated, and managed by the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief and the Bangladesh Red Crescent Society; a volunteer force of more than 32,000 are trained to help in warning and evacuation in the coastal areas. Around 2,500 cyclone shelters have been constructed in the coastal regions. The shelters are built on elevated platforms and serve the dual role of schools or community centers during normal weather. In Patenga, Chittagong, the coast has been heavily protected with concrete levees. Also, afforestation has been initiated in the coastal regions to create a green belt.\n\n\nThis is a partial list of the tropical cyclones in Bangladesh or the historical region of Bengal of pre-partitioned India in general. Some of the years and dates may be slightly incorrect. Most of the figures have been taken from Banglapedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34397106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34397106", "title": "List of Banyan trees in India", "text": "List of Banyan trees in India\n\nBanyan is considered holy in several religious traditions of India. The Ficus benghalensis is the National tree of India, and also the state tree of Madhya Pradesh.\n\nThe following is a list of notable Banyan trees in India. Trees listed here are regarded as important or specific by its historical, national, locational, natural or mythological context. Some researches found that there are less than 150 Banyan trees left in India. The list includes actual Banyan trees located throughout the India.\n\n"}
{"id": "6491850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6491850", "title": "List of Chamelaucium species", "text": "List of Chamelaucium species\n\nThis is a list of plant species from the genus Chamelaucium.\n"}
{"id": "49509690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49509690", "title": "List of Chromista by conservation status", "text": "List of Chromista by conservation status\n\n, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has evaluated the conservation status of 15 species within Chromista. \nThe IUCN has not evaluated any protist species other than those in Chromista. No Chromista subspecies or subpopulations have been evaluated. No evaluated Chromista species are confirmed to be extinct, but four are tagged as possibly extinct.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56550618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56550618", "title": "List of Hypogastrura species", "text": "List of Hypogastrura species\n\nThis is a list of 159 species in the genus \"Hypogastrura\".\n"}
{"id": "19324295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19324295", "title": "List of Nature Conservation Act vulnerable flora of Queensland", "text": "List of Nature Conservation Act vulnerable flora of Queensland\n\nThis is a list of the flora of Queensland listed as \"Vulnerable\" under the Nature Conservation Act 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5869036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5869036", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Humberside", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Humberside\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Humberside, England. In England the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which chooses a site because of its fauna, flora, geological or physiographical features. Although the county of Humberside no longer exists, Natural England uses its former borders to mark an Area of Search. , there are 72 sites designated in this Area of Search, of which 51 have been designated due to their biological interest, 17 due to their geological interest, and 4 for both.\n\nNatural England took over the role of designating and managing SSSIs from English Nature in October 2006 when it was formed from the amalgamation of English Nature, parts of the Countryside Agency and the Rural Development Service. Natural England, like its predecessor, uses the 1974–1996 county system and as such the same approach is followed here. There are four unitary authorities in the Humberside Area of Search: Kingston upon Hull and East Riding of Yorkshire cover North Humberside, and North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire cover South Humberside. The SSSI list for Lincolnshire does not include the sites on this list.\n\nThe data in the table is taken from Natural England in the form of citation sheets for each SSSI, and the County Background Datasheet for Humberside.\n\nFor other counties, see List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "40909376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40909376", "title": "List of botanical gardens and arboretums in California", "text": "List of botanical gardens and arboretums in California\n\nThis list is intended to include all significant botanical gardens and arboretums in the U.S. state of California.\n\n"}
{"id": "4653714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653714", "title": "List of carnivorous plants", "text": "List of carnivorous plants\n\nThis list of carnivorous plants is a comprehensive listing of all known carnivorous plant species, of which more than 750 are currently recognised. Unless otherwise stated it is based on Jan Schlauer's Carnivorous Plant Database. Extinct taxa are denoted with a dagger (†).\n\nSome of the species on this list may not satisfy certain strict definitions of plant carnivory, and could alternatively be characterised as merely \"paracarnivorous\" or \"protocarnivorous\".\n\nThis genus contains a single extant species.\n\n\nThis genus contains around 20 extant species, of which at least two are thought to be carnivorous.\n\n\nThe following list of 8 species is based on \"Carnivorous Plants of Australia Magnum Opus\" (2013).\n\n\nThis genus contains around 20 extant species, of which at least one is thought to be carnivorous.\n\n\nThis genus contains a single extant species.\n\nThis genus contains a single extant species.\n\nThis genus contains a single extant species.\n\n\n There are around 208 species here:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis genus contains a single extant species.\n\n\nThe following list of 29 species is based on \"Monograph of the Genus Genlisea\" (2012).\n\n\n\nThe following list of 23 species (plus 2 undescribed species) is based on \"Sarraceniaceae of South America\" (2011).\n\n\n\nThe following list of 170 species (plus 2 undescribed species) is based on \"Pitcher Plants of the Old World\" (2009) and \"New Nepenthes\" (2011), with the addition of newly described species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis genus contains four extant species.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis genus contains two extant species.\n\n\nThe following list of 8 species is based on \"Sarraceniaceae of North America\" (2011).\n\n\n\nSome authorities additionally recognise up to three more species:\n\n\nAround 300 species of \"Stylidium\" are currently recognised.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis genus contains a single extant species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNumerous extinct species of \"Aldrovanda\" have been described, all of which are known only from fossil pollen and seeds (with the exception of \"A. inopinata\", which is also known from fossilised laminae).\n\n\nThis genus contains a single extinct species, described from fossilised leaf material. The identification of \"Archaeamphora\" as a pitcher plant (and therefore carnivorous plant) has been questioned by a number of authors.\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from fossil pollen.\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from fossil pollen.\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from fossil pollen. Three species of the \"\"Droseridites echinosporus\" group\" have been transferred to the genus \"Nepenthes\" (see below).\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from fossil pollen.\n\n\nThree species known only from fossil pollen and originally assigned to \"Droseridites\" have been transferred to the genus \"Nepenthes\".\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from fossil pollen. \"Droseridites major\" (\"Nepenthes major\") and \"Droseridites parvus\" are considered synonyms of \"Nepenthidites laitryngewensis\" by some authorities.\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from what were originally described as fossil seeds. These supposed seeds have subsequently been identified as insect eggs.\n\n\nThis is a form taxon known only from fossil pollen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12680597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12680597", "title": "List of people with craters of the Moon named after them", "text": "List of people with craters of the Moon named after them\n\nThe following is a list of people whose names were given to craters of the Moon. The list of approved names in the \"Gazetteer of Planetary Nomenclature\" maintained by the International Astronomical Union includes the person the crater is named for.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7267556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7267556", "title": "List of waste management acronyms", "text": "List of waste management acronyms\n\nThe following article contains a list of acronyms and initials used in the waste management industry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8569678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8569678", "title": "Marineland of New Zealand", "text": "Marineland of New Zealand\n\nMarineland of New Zealand was a marine mammal park in Napier, New Zealand. The park opened in 1965 and closed to the public in 2008. It has had several species of native marine wildlife, including the common dolphin, the New Zealand fur seal, little blue penguin and gannets. Marineland also has California sea lions, a sulphur crested cockatoo, otters and more.\n\nThe history of Marineland began in 1964 when an Auckland architectural firm was commissioned by Napier City under mayor Peter Tait to design an aquarium and dolphin pool. In late January 1965 Marineland caught its first common dolphin, Daphne, and the facility opened two days later. In 1969 two dolphins died when vandals broke in and fed them nails.\n\nBy the end of the 1960s the site had exhibited dusky dolphins, California sea lions, leopard seals and New Zealand fur seals.\n\nThe year 1970 saw bottlenose dolphins and weddell seals welcomed to the site. In 1976 four small clawed otters arrived from Melbourne Zoo. A year later the current general manager, Gary Macdonald was appointed.\n\nA new grandstand was built and Marineland saw yellow-eyed penguins and little blue penguins lay eggs for the first time including some successful hatchings.\n\nA New Zealand Lotteries Commission grant was given for a new Marine Education Centre in 1991 and one year later a \"Swim With Dolphins\" programme began. In 1996 vandals broke into the site for a second time. Redevelopments of many areas and accommodations for animals at the site took place.\n\nCloses to the public in September 2008 when Kelly the last remaining dolphin dies.\n\nMarineland is transferred to National Aquarium of New Zealand.\n\nIn September 2013, Napier City Council announced that Marineland was to be demolished and replaced with a Skatepark.\n\n\nThe final manager of Napier's Marineland, Gary Macdonald, resigned on 18 November 2009 after 32 years at Marineland after investigations found he falsified documentation to keep wild animals illegally.\n\n\"What I did was totally wrong & I should've been informing DOC of exactly what I was doing,\" said Mr Macdonald in live statements after the investigation.\nInvestigations into the council-owned tourist attraction were started by The Department of Conservation about the false paperwork on 11 November 2009.\n\nNapier City Council chief executive of the time Neil Taylor explained the investigations showed three or more wild seal pups were documented as being born in Marineland, enabling the facility to keep them rather than release the animals back to the wild.\n\nThe council probe revealed false declarations were filed in 1996, 2006, and 2007, stating in all cases that the pups had arrived malnourished, harassed, or at risk for treatment.\n\nMarineland has been closed since April 2008 while the council decides the future of the facility.\n\nDOC completed an investigation but decided against prosecution of Marineland, satisfied with Mr Macdonald's resignation.\n\n"}
{"id": "5504835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5504835", "title": "Medicina Radio Observatory", "text": "Medicina Radio Observatory\n\nThe Medicina Radio Observatory is an astronomical observatory located 30 km from Bologna, Italy. It is operated by the Institute for Radio Astronomy of the National Institute for Astrophysics (INAF) of the government of Italy.\n\nThe site includes:\n\nThe Northern Cross Radio Telescope (Croce del Nord in Italian) is one of the largest transit radio telescopes in the world. Observations are focused around 408 MHz (UHF band), corresponding to 73.5 cm wavelength. The older receivers of the telescope function with a 2.5 MHz wide frequency band, while the upgraded parts have a 16 MHz bandwidth. The telescope is steerable only in declination, meaning that it can solely observe objects that are culminating on the local celestial meridian. The telescope is T-shaped and consists of:\n\n\nThe telescope can provide 22880 possible theoretical independent beams and has a field of view of 55.47 degrees (East-West) by 1.8 degrees (North-South). The resolution is around 4-5 arcminutes in the North-South direction, and 4 arcminutes in the East-West direction. While less than the resolution of large optical telescopes, the amount of radiation which can be gathered with the Northern Cross is much greater, proportional to the mirror surface of approximately 27400 square meters. Northern Cross represents the largest UHF-band antenna in the Northern hemisphere, with an aperture efficiency of 60%, making it second in the world, after the Arecibo radio telescope. This allows the Northern Cross to identify and measure extremely faint sources, making the telescope is particularly suitable to extragalactic researches.\n\nThere are plans upgrade of the East-West arm telescope to a LOFAR SuperStation, due to the good performances of a cylindrical-parabolic antenna in the 100-700 MHz frequency range. Since LOFAR operates in the 120-240 MHz range, some of the sensors on the Northern Cross Radio Telescope, optimized for 408 MHz, will have to be replaced with broadband antennas. This installation will have an effective area much larger than any other remote LOFAR station. If extended to the whole 22000 square meters area of the East-West arm, this single element effective area of 20 standard remote LOFAR stations. The resulting system will provide signification improvement in observation sensitivity.\n\nThe Cross is currently used as a pathfinder for the Square Kilometre Array. The work is focused on studying the amplification and filtering of signals between the LNA (Low Noise Amplifier) output and the Analog-to-Digital Converter input for the SKA. The Medicina Radio Observatory is studying all problems related to \"antenna array implementation\" through a prototype installation called MAD (Medicina Array Demonstrator).\n\nThe observatory staff have also built new receiver demonstrators for the SKA called \"BEST\" (Basic Element for SKA Training), part of the EU-funded SKADS (SKA Design Studies) programme. The project started in 2005 and finished in 2009. It involved the installation of the new receivers on some reflectors of the North-South section (and later East-West section) of the Northern Cross telescope, along with new analog fiber-optic and coaxial digital finks from the front-end receiver boxes to the back-ends. The BEST project was divided in three parts:\n\n\nThere is an ongoing effort to use the 32 meter dish as a receiver for radar-based tracking system artificial satellites and space debris in Earth orbit. The system functions as a bistatic radar, where an emitter located in a different location sends a signal, which bounces off objects in orbit and the echo is picked up by a receiver. The 32 meter dish acts as receiver, while usually the Yevpatoria 70 meter located in Crimea, functions as a transmitter. The systems can either actively track debris to determine their orbit more precisely or utilize a technique called beam park, where the transmitting and receiving antennas are kept fixed at a given position and the debris pass in and out of the observed area. The measurements obtain through such a system can be used to determine object radar cross-section, time of peak occurrence, polarization ratio, bistatic doppler shift and target rotation. In one of the carried-out tests, Yevpatoria-Medicina system was able to detect an object with an estimated radar cross section of 0.0002 square meter, which was created by the Iridium 33 and Kosmos-2251 satellite collision. The system can also function as a multistatic radar using the 32 meter receivers at Medicina, the Noto Radio Observatory in Italy and the Ventspils Starptautiskais Radioastronomijas Centrs in Latvia.\n\nThe Northern Cross radio telescope has also been part of space debris tracking studies, utilized as a multiple-beam receiver for a bistatic radar system. The first tested configuration is a quasi-monostatic radar system, with a 3 m dish as transmitter, located in Bagnara - 20 km from the receiver. The second configuration was a simulation of a true bistatic radar system with 7 m dish as transmitter located at the site of the Sardinia Radio Telescope (SRT). The system has a maximum field-of-view of about 100 square degrees and collecting area of approximately 27400 square meter and is capable of providing up to 22880 beams, each 4 by 4 arcminutes wide. Tracking the sequence of beams that are illuminated, makes possible for the system to track with higher level of detail, with respect to the single-beam systems, the ground track of a transiting object. The Northern Cross radio telescope in a bistatic radar configuration is also part of the Space Surveillance and Tracking (SST) segment of the ESA Space Situational Awareness Programme (SSA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52454599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454599", "title": "Ministry of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources", "text": "Ministry of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources\n\nThe Ministry of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources of the Republic of Armenia () is the ministry responsible for the management of the energy systems, and control of the exploitation of natural resources in Armenia. It elaborates and implements the policies of the Republic of Armenia Government in the energy sector.\n\nIts history can be traced to the time that Armenia was still in the Soviet Union. Since that time, many ministers have changed, as well the official name of the ministry, while maintaining the word 'energy' in its name. As of 2016, it is one of the 18 ministries in Armenia, and plays an important role in regulating the laws and policies regarding the energy and natural resource spheres.\n\nThe Armenian energy system has a 100-year history, during which time the ArmEnergo department played an important role. ArmEnergo was formed in November 1936 with the decision of the Soviet Union with the aim of managing and controlling the exploitation and development of electric stations and networks. The two hydropower plants of Yerevan, the Gyumri HPP, Dzora HPP and other technical services were part of ArmEnergo. Later on ArmEnergo became the official body eligible to control the whole energy system of Armenia.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, Armenian economic reforms, and dawn of an energy crisis required new control mechanisms. In order to overcome this, in 1992 the Ministry of Energy and Fuel of the Republic of Armenia was created. The ministry was renamed as the Ministry of Energy of The Republic of Armenia on August 4, 1995 by a decision of the Armenian government. Once more, the ministry was renamed as Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of The Republic of Armenia by a decree of the Armenian president on 18 April 2008, which was renamed as the Ministry of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources of The Republic of Armenia on September 30, 2016. Today, the main aim of the ministry is to develop and maintain the governance policy of the Republic of Armenia in the sphere of energy infrastructures and natural resources.\n\nAshot Manukyan is the current Minister, and the Deputy Ministers are Areg Galstyan, Iosif Isayan, Hayk Harutyunyan, and Vardan Gevorgyan.\n\nThe structure of the ministry is as follows:\n\nThe mining sector is a very important part or Armenia’s national economy. Ore concentrates and metals are the main goods exported from Armenia at about half of all exported goods. About 670 mines are officially registered, of which more than half (around 400 mines) are exploited.\nThe ministry reports that there is an abundance of iron, copper, molybdenum, lead, zinc, gold, silver, antimony, aluminum, and also other types of minerals and metals in the Republic of Armenia. Metal mineral mines include 7 copper-molybdenum mines, 4 copper mines, 14 gold and gold-polymetallic mines, 2 polymetallic mine, 2 iron ore mines, and 1 aluminum mine.\n\nAlso, as a result of volcanic processes, mountainous rocks were formed. Notable ones are light rocks (tufa, perlite, pumice-stone, zeolite, scoria). In addition, different types of basalts, granites, nephelite syenite, and marble make up a large percent of resources in Armenia.\n\nWhile being surrounded by countries that have significant hydrocarbon reserves, Armenia does not have enough fossil fuels and coal to be able to use them for producing energy. As such, Armenia is totally dependent on fuel that is imported from abroad as a fuel source for transportation, generating energy, and producing heat. Research shows that Armenia has some fossil fuel reserves which are mostly located near Gyumri and Spitak, but they are located so deep that it is not economically feasible to extract them.\n\nIn the 1990s, during the energy crisis, Armenia succeeded in constructing a large energy system. However, compared with 1988, when the energy generated capacity was more than 3.5 gigawatts, in 2010 it was just 1.2 gigawatts, which can be explained by the Armenian Government's decision to close some of the thermal power plants and one of the 2 reactors of the Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant. As a result, Armenia started utilizing renewable energy sources.\n\nThe concept of Energy security of Armenia is aimed at ensuring the energy security of Armenia in conformity with the provisions of the National Security Strategy of Armenia. Energy security is a system of political, economic, legal, organizational, methodological, and other activities that provide affordable prices to meet the daily needs of high-quality and reliable power supply, as well as in emergency situations, and during war.\n\nArmenia has adopted a sustainable development policy which implies the development of the energy sector as the most important area. This sector's aim is to ensure the kind of progress that will create preconditions for the harmonization and balance of environmental issues for sustainable development of the next generation, while reducing energy loss. Because of Armenia's limited hydrocarbon resources, energy security has become imperative for the presence of energy resources, including the balance of renewable energy sources (renewable energy), and the extensive use of full inclusion.\n\nSince there are no fossil fuel resources in Armenia, the function of Ministry of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources of Armenia and natural in the framework of the energy security's concept is to increase energy efficiency in the economy, develop nuclear energy, and efficiently use renewable energy resources.\n\nThe adoption of the concept of energy security is due to:\n\nStrategic plans of the ministry are based on a three-level diversification policy:\n\nThe three-level diversification policy's aim is to provide a sufficient level of energy security, to have electricity and gas consumption reserves in both emergency and force majeure situations. In the framework of this policy there are programs to neutralize internal and external threats, for life-time extension of the Armenian Nuclear Power Plant, and for construction of new cost-effective electricity generating facilities.\n\n\n\nThe Ministry of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources of Armenia has continuous goals to contribute to the development of the energy sector in the Republic of Armenia. Thus, every year, it starts to accomplish new projects in the field of renewable energy in conjunction with various international companies and investors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1704169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704169", "title": "Moine Thrust Belt", "text": "Moine Thrust Belt\n\nThe Moine Thrust Belt or Moine Thrust Zone is a linear tectonic feature in the Scottish Highlands which runs from Loch Eriboll on the north coast south-west to the Sleat peninsula on the Isle of Skye. The thrust belt consists of a series of thrust faults that branch off the Moine Thrust itself. Topographically, the belt marks a change from rugged, terraced mountains with steep sides sculptured from weathered igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks in the west to an extensive landscape of rolling hills over a metamorphic rock base to the east. Mountains within the belt display complexly folded and faulted layers and the width of the main part of the zone varies up to , although it is significantly wider on Skye.\n\nThe presence of metamorphic gneisses and schists lying apparently stratigraphically above sedimentary rocks of lower Paleozoic age in the Northwest Highlands had been known since the early 19th century, convincing Roderick Murchison that the change was a purely metamorphic effect and that the upper gneiss was younger than the sediments beneath. Initially he was supported in this interpretation by Archibald Geikie and James Nicol. After further fieldwork, Nicol changed his mind and advocated instead that the contact at the base of the upper gneisses was tectonic, starting what was known as the Highlands Controversy. A tectonic interpretation was supported by, amongst others, Charles Lapworth who had corresponded with Albert Heim on similar structures in the Alps. In 1883 and 1884 the survey geologists Ben Peach and John Horne were sent into the area by the survey's director Archibald Geikie to carry out detailed mapping. The results of the mapping proved conclusively to Peach and Horne that the contact was tectonic and they were eventually able to persuade Geikie when he visited them briefly in the field in October 1884. In November that year Peach and Horne's preliminary results were published and Geikie published a paper in the same issue of Nature in which he coined the term \"thrust-plane\" for these low-angle faults, although the term was probably already in use before then. By 1888 the term \"Moine Thrust\" was being used for the tectonic break at the base of Moine schists (what is now called the Moine Supergroup). The recognition of the Moine Thrust Belt in the early 1880s was a milestone in the history of geology as it was one of the first thrust belts discovered and where the importance of large scale horizontal rather than vertical movements became apparent. Detailed mapping of the Moine Thrust Belt by the survey continued for another two decades, culminating in the classic survey memoir \"The Geological Structure of the Northwest Highlands of Scotland\", published in 1907.\n\nThe Moine Thrust Belt was formed during the late stages of the Caledonian Orogeny as part of the collision between Laurentia and Baltica. It is the most westerly Caledonian structure in Scotland apart from the Outer Isles Fault in the Outer Hebrides, which is developed within the Hebridean Terrane. The Moine Thrust Belt defines the boundary between the Hebridean Terrane to its northwest and the Northern Highlands Terrane to its southeast. The thrust carried metamorphic material over 200 km across Scotland entirely masking the geology of the previous terrane. However, small windows, such as the Assynt window and the Glen Achall imbricated thrust system, allow geologists to estimate what the geology of Scotland was like before the Caledonian Orogeny.\n\nThe relationship between the Moine Thrust Belt and other Scandian age structures in Scandinavia and East Greenland remains unclear, due to uncertainties associated with the Great Glen Fault zone. This major sinistral (left-lateral) strike-slip fault was also active during the late stages of the orogeny, but continued to move during the early Devonian and appears to truncate the southern end of the thrust belt. The total late Caledonian displacement on the Great Glen Fault is poorly constrained, making reconstruction of the southern part of the orogenic belt difficult.\n\nThe stratigraphic sequence of the footwall of the Moine Thrust is the full sequence characteristic of the Hebridean Terrane.\n\nThe Lewisian complex consists of mainly granitic gneisses that are of Archaean and Paleoproterozoic age. They form the basement to both the Torridonian Supergroup and the Moine Supergroup of the Northern Highlands Terrane, in the hanging wall of the Moine Thrust.\n\nThe Torridonian Supergroup is of Neoproterozoic age and consists mainly of sandstone with a maximum preserved thickness of over 8 km. It is divided into three groups, the Stoer, Sleat and Torridon groups. The unconformity at the base of this unit is highly irregular, showing that it was deposited on an eroded land surface.\n\nThe Cambrian to lower Ordovician rocks consist of two groups, the Ardvreck Group and the Durness Group. The Ardvreck Group lies above an angular unconformity over various parts of the Torridon Group and locally over the Lewisian. It is a sequence of mainly quartz arenites. The lowermost part of the Eriboll Formation, the Basal Quartzite Member, is often pebbly at its base. The overlying Pipe Rock Member is a distinctive quartz arenite with many white weathering \"skolithos\" trace fossils that act as strain markers in areas of more ductile deformation. The uppermost two parts of the Ardvreck Group form the An t-Sron Formation, with the dolomitic Fucoid Beds Member being overlain by the quartz arenites of the Salterella Grit Member. The succeeding Durness Group consists mainly of dolostones, with some limestone and chert.\n\nThe distinctive character of this sequence enabled detailed mapping, even in areas of relatively poor exposure and allowed sections repeated by thrusting to be recognised.\n\nThe Moine Supergroup, like the Torridonian, is of Neoproterozoic age and possibly a lateral equivalent of that unit. Near the Moine Thrust all of the Moine rocks form part of the Morar Group, which forms the lowest tectonostratigraphic unit of the Moine.\n\nIn addition to the Sole Thrust at the base of the northern section of the structure and the Moine Thrust at the top of the belt, many other thrust faults are developed, some of which are large enough to be named and mapped more regionally. The thrust sheet carried by each thrust is named after the thrust beneath it, although the term \"nappe\" is also used.\n\nThe Moine Thrust in the strict sense is the uppermost thrust in the belt and the one that carries the most displacement. In all cases it carries rocks of the Moine Supergroup over rocks of the Hebridean Terrane. Unlike the other thrusts, there is a broad zone (up to 600 m in thickness) of the Moine in the hanging-wall that is intensely deformed into mylonite, indicating that it originated at a significantly deeper crustal level. Total displacement on this one structure has been estimated as several 10s of kilometres based on the change in crustal level and the thickness of mylonites developed. In its central section, south of the Assynt Window, it becomes the sole thrust structure, before the Kinlochewe Thrust branches off to the south.\n\nThis thrust forms the base of the belt from Eriboll to the southern end of the Assynt Window where it merges with the Moine Thrust itself. It is thought to be the youngest formed thrust structure in the belt, which is consistent with a foreland propagating thrust sequence. Along strike the footwall of the Sole Thrust changes from Lewisian in the south to Cambrian in the north.\n\nIn the Eriboll section this thrust carries Lewisian gneiss over the Pipe Rock. Its outcrop is complicated by the effects of later thrusting that both folds and offsets the Arnaboll Thrust. The exposures on the flank of Ben Arnaboll have particular importance as it was here that Lapworth first described the highly deformed rock type mylonite and also where Geikie coined the term \"thrust plane\".\n\nThe Ben More Thrust is the largest and most continuous of the thrust faults developed between the Moine and Sole Thrusts within the Assynt Window.\n\nThis thrust is developed within the lower part of the belt in the Assynt Window.\n\nThe Kinlochewe Thrust branches off the Moine Thrust's central section and runs southwards past Kinlochewe to the Achnashellach Culmination, where it is truncated by the SW–NE trending Strathcarron Fault. It may originally have been continuous with the Kishorn Thrust.\n\nThe Kishorn Thrust extends from the Achnashellach Culmination, just north of Loch Carron, where it is truncated by the Strathcarron Fault. It continues southwestwards to Loch Kishorn, becoming the basal thrust. On the Isle of Skye, the Kishorn Thrust also marks the base of the Moine Thrust Belt bringing mainly Torridonian sandstones over foreland Cambrian-Ordovician limestones and quartzites. Locally on the Sleat peninsula the Kishorn thrust sheet is eroded to form the Ord window in which the foreland rocks once more appear.\n\nAt the southwestern end of the Sleat peninsula, the Tarskavaig Thrust carries Moine Supergroup metasediments over the Torridonian of the underlying Kishorn thrust sheet.\n\nWhen the MOIST (Moine and Outer Isles Seismic Traverse) deep seismic profile was acquired north of the Scottish mainland by the BIRPS group in 1981 a series of east-dipping fault zones were imaged, two of which were interpreted as potential continuations of the Moine Thrust. The presence of half graben basin in the hanging walls of these faults was interpreted to represent Devonian and Mesozoic extensional reactivation of the Caledonian thrust structures. Further deep profiles acquired in the same area, the DRUM and GRID lines confirmed these features. Onshore on Shetland the Wester Keolka Shear was proposed to represent the Moine Thrust, although more recent radiometric dating results suggest that this is unlikely to be the case. The link between the structures imaged offshore and those onshore remains unclear.\n\nSouthwest of Skye the course of the Moine Thrust Belt becomes uncertain. It is assumed that it must pass to the southeast of the mainly Lewisian islands of Coll and Tiree. It is often shown passing through the Sound of Iona west of Mull, although no thrusts are actually exposed. It is presumed to be truncated by the Great Glen Fault zone somewhere southwest of Mull.\n\nMovement on the Moine Thrust Belt has been dated partly on its relationship with a series of igneous intrusions in the Assynt Window and partly from the results of radiometric dating of deformed rocks from the footwall or hanging-wall of the thrusts. The intrusions near Loch Borralan and Loch Ailsh have similar chemistry, both being forms of syenite, and have been dated at 430±4 Ma and 430.6±0.3 Ma respectively suggesting that they were intruded at about the same time. The Loch Ailsh intrusion outcrops within the Ben More thrust sheet and predates movement on that structure. The Loch Borralan intrusion lies beneath the Ben More Thrust. Locally the intrusion has been said to cut across the Ben More Thrust, but a lack of the metamorphic effects found elsewhere along the margin of the intrusion suggest that this contact is tectonic rather than intrusive. In the upper part of the Borralan intrusion, there is evidence of deformation of the syenite while it was still hot, suggesting that thrusting started soon after it was intruded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12992414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12992414", "title": "Pincoy", "text": "Pincoy\n\nThe Pincoy is a male \"water spirit\" of the seas, belonging to the Chilote mythology of Chiloé, Chile. \n\nIt looks equivalent to a merman creature, his body would be like a large sea lion, colour bright golden, with handsome and manly human face and long golden hair, being magically attractive to the women. He is the son of Millalobo (mythical king of the seas of Chiloé) and the human Huenchula; his sisters, are the Sirena chilota and the Pincoya (which also is his wife). With his sisters he carries the dead from the sea unto the Caleuche. In addition, he is responsible of singing a beautiful and strange song, so that the Pincoya start her magical dance, for fertility of the sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "8853472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8853472", "title": "Ponderomotive energy", "text": "Ponderomotive energy\n\nIn strong-field laser physics, ponderomotive energy is the cycle-averaged quiver energy of a free electron in an electromagnetic field. \n\nThe ponderomotive energy is given by\n\nwhere formula_2 is the electron charge, formula_3 is the linearly polarised electric field amplitude, formula_4 is the laser carrier frequency and formula_5 is the electron mass.\n\nIn terms of the laser intensity formula_6, using formula_7, it reads less simply:\n\nwhere formula_9 is the vacuum permittivity.\n\nIn atomic units, formula_10, formula_11, formula_12 where formula_13. If one uses the atomic unit of electric field, then the ponderomotive energy is just\n\nThe formula for the ponderomotive energy can be easily derived. A free particle of charge\nformula_15 interacts with an electric field formula_16. The force on the charged particle is \n\nThe acceleration of the particle is \n\nBecause the electron executes harmonic motion, the particle's position is \n\nFor a particle experiencing harmonic motion, the time-averaged energy is \n\nIn laser physics, this is called the ponderomotive energy formula_21.\n\n"}
{"id": "30339188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30339188", "title": "Power tower (Linz)", "text": "Power tower (Linz)\n\nThe Power Tower is the first high-rise office tower to attempt to meet the strict Passive House energy efficiency building standard. It was built to house the corporate headquarters of the Austrian utility company Energie AG in Linz, Austria.\n\nIn accordance with the Passive House standard the building has no connection to the local district heating system, and requires no fossil fuel inputs to maintain a comfortable interior climate, resulting in much lower carbon dioxide emissions than comparable buildings. \n\nIn 2004 Energie AG decided to replace its corporate headquarters, built in the 1930s, with a much more efficient building. After an architectural competition the Zürich firm Weber/Hofer was chosen to lead the design effort. In the spring of 2006 construction began on the 3,750 m^2 lot. The site houses a parking garage, a two story building, and the 19-story office tower. Construction was completed in the late summer of 2008, and the building now provides offices for 600 employees of 13 different companies.\n\nThe Power Tower minimizes its external energy consumption via several integrated systems. \n\nThe building envelope was specially engineered to allow maximum daylighting while minimizing solar gain, which would normally be excessive and require a great deal of active cooling, given that two thirds of the facade is composed of glazing. \n\nBeneath the building, 46 geothermal wells, each 150 m deep were drilled prior to construction. \n\n"}
{"id": "384556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384556", "title": "Saraca asoca", "text": "Saraca asoca\n\nSaraca asoca (the ashoka tree; lit., \"sorrow-less\") is a plant belonging to the Caesalpinioideae subfamily of the legume family. It is an important tree in the cultural traditions of the Indian subcontinent and adjacent areas. It is sometimes incorrectly known as \"Saraca indica\".\n\nThe ashoka is a rain-forest tree. Its original distribution was in the central areas of the Deccan plateau, as well as the middle section of the Western Ghats in the western coastal zone of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThe ashoka is prized for its beautiful foliage and fragrant flowers. It is a handsome, small, erect evergreen tree, with deep green leaves growing in dense clusters.\n\nIts flowering season is around February to April. The ashoka flowers come in heavy, lush bunches. They are bright orange-yellow in color, turning red before wilting.\n\nBiologically, some of the flower's characteristics are very dry and abundant. This means that the flower is coated with a chemical on the outside.\n\nAs a wild tree, the ashoka is a vulnerable species. It is becoming rarer in its natural habitat, but isolated wild ashoka trees are still to be found in the foothills of the central and eastern Himalayas, in scattered locations of the northern plains of India as well as on the west coast of the subcontinent near Mumbai.\n\nThere are a few varieties of the ashoka tree. One variety is larger and highly spreading. The columnar varieties are common in cultivation.\n\nThe ashoka tree is considered sacred throughout the Indian subcontinent, especially in India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. This tree has many folklorical, religious and literary associations in the region. Highly valued as well for its handsome appearance and the color and abundance of its flowers, the ashoka tree is often found in royal palace compounds and gardens as well as close to temples throughout India. It is believed Shakyamuni Buddha was born under an ashoka tree in Lumbini Garden.\n\nThe ashoka tree is closely associated with the yakshi mythological beings. One of the recurring elements in Indian art, often found at gates of Buddhist and Hindu temples, is the sculpture of a yakshini with her foot on the trunk and her hands holding the branch of a flowering ashoka tree. As an artistic element, often the tree and the yakshi are subject to heavy stylization. Some authors hold that the young girl at the foot of this tree is based on an ancient tree deity related to fertility.\nYakshis under the ashoka tree were also important in early Buddhist monuments as a decorative element and are found in many ancient Buddhist archaeological sites. With the passing of the centuries the yakshi under the ashoka tree became a standard decorative element of Hindu Indian sculpture and was integrated into Indian temple architecture as salabhanjika, because there is often a confusion between the ashoka tree and the sal tree (\"Shorea robusta\") in the ancient literature of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nIn Hinduism the ashoka is considered a sacred tree. Not counting a multitude of local traditions connected to it, the ashoka tree is worshipped in Chaitra, a month of the Hindu calendar. It is also associated with Kamadeva, the Hindu god of love, who included an ashoka blossom among the five flowers in his quiver, where ashoka represent seductive hypnosis. Hence, the ashoka tree is often mentioned in classical Indian religious and amorous poetry, having at least 16 different names in Sanskrit referring to the tree or its flowers.\n\nIn \"Mahākāvya\", or Indian epic poetry, the ashoka tree is mentioned in the \"Ramayana\" in reference to the \"Ashoka Vatika\" (garden of ashoka trees) where Hanuman first meets Sita.\n\nA popular tree known as \"false ashoka tree\" or even as \"ashoka tree\", \"Polyalthia longifolia\", is cultivated to resemble the growth pattern of erect \"pillar-like\" Mediterranean cypress trees. It is a popular park and garden plant, much used in landscaping on the Indian subcontinent, known also as \"Devadaar\" or \"Debdaru\". This tree can easily be distinguished by its compound leaves and very different flowers. Ashoka flowers are red (initially orange in color) while False Ashoka flowers are apple green in color. Ashoka fruits look like broad beans containing multiple seeds while false ashoka fruits are small, spherical and contain only one seed. Ashoka trees are small in height, while false ashoka is taller.\n\nThis tree has a multitude of names in Indian literature. Some names for the ashoka tree and its flowers include: \n\nThe bark of the Ashoka plant is used to prepare cosmetics that help to improve skin complexion. It helps to prevent the condition of scanty and difficult for urination and even acts as an antidote to scorpion bite. Even its dried flowers are advantageous for diabetic patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9503534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9503534", "title": "Tassajara Formation", "text": "Tassajara Formation\n\nThe Tassajara Formation is a geologic unit within the Livermore Valley of Northern California, United States. The formation surfaces only in the northern upland parts of the Livermore Valley and underlie the central part of the valley floor at a depth ranging from to . The Tassajara Formation consists of sediments ranging from brown to gray mudstone, andesitic sandstone, conglomerate, and minor bentonitic and pumiceous tuff. In the northern San Ramon area, the Tassajara Formation underlies Quaternary valley fill material.\n\nThe Bishop Subbasin is an aquifer that resides between two subsurface ridge formations of the Tassajara Formation in the northern extremity of the Amador Valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "17130480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17130480", "title": "Tianlian I", "text": "Tianlian I\n\nTianlian I (Simplified Chinese: 天链一号, Traditional Chinese: 天鏈一號, English: \"Sky Chain\"), also known as Tian Lian 1, TL-1, and CTDRS-1 is a Chinese data tracking and relay communications satellite series. Based on the DFH-3 satellite bus, it will provide communication coverage for manned Shenzhou missions, from Shenzhou 7 onwards. Functionally, it is similar to the United States Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System.\n\nThe first satellite of the series, Tianlian I-01, was launched on the maiden flight of the Long March 3C carrier rocket, at 15:35 GMT on 25 April 2008, from LC-2 at the Xichang Satellite Launch Centre. Tianlian I-01 is able to cover around half of the spacecraft's trajectory, compared to around 12 percent which had been covered using tracking stations and a fleet of ships. Tianlian I-02 was launched on 11 July 2011, Tianlian I-03 on 25 July 2012 and Tianlian I-04 on 22 November 2016. The satellites are in geostationary orbit.\n\n\nTianlian I-01 (Simplified Chinese: 天链一号01星, Traditional Chinese: 天鏈一號01星) is the first Tracking and Data Relay Satellite (TDRS) launched by People's Republic of China, and the first satellite of Tianlian I TDRS series. The satellite has multiple roles and will especially serve for China's manned spaceflight. Its first task could be for the Shenzhou 7 communication.\n\nThe satellite was launched successfully by the Long March 3C rocket in Xichang Satellite Launch Centre at local time 23:35 April 25, 2008. It was the 105th launch of the Long March Rocket Family. The rocket had 3 stages, 2 roll boosters, a 55 m height; and was liquid-fueled. Its initial weight was ~343 t.\n\nIts history includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "56085656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56085656", "title": "Tulsi Pujan Diwas", "text": "Tulsi Pujan Diwas\n\nTulsi Pujan Diwas is a festival that is celebrated on 25 December. Tulsi (Ocimum Tenuiflorum) is planted and worshiped on the occasion.\n\nIt was initiated by Asaram Bapu on 25 December 2014. Tulsi in Hinduism is used for medicinal and spiritual use. It is considered sacred in Hindusim and is believed Tulsi brings prosperity.\n\nShri Yog Vedant Seva Samiti organizes the celebration of Tulsi Pujan Diwas, every year.\n\nVishva Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal also celebrate this festival on 25 December.\n\nIn Hinduism, Tulsi is worshiped by offering water, chandan or sindoor, rice, flowers and sacrament(holy food/Prasad). Diya (lamp) is lit to worship the plant.People are also encouraged to grow Tulsi plant in their home so that environment can be benefited.\n\nTulsi is considered as an auspicious plant in Hinduism and is claimed to cure many diseases, according to Ayurveda.\n"}
{"id": "1810027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810027", "title": "Twine", "text": "Twine\n\nTwine is a light string or strong thread composed of two or more smaller strands or yarns twisted, and then twisted together. More generally, the term can be applied to a cord.\n\nNatural fibres used for making twine include, wool, cotton, sisal, jute, hemp, henequen, and coir. A variety of synthetic fibres are also used.\n\n"}
