{"id": "20347892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347892", "title": "1,000 Recordings to Hear Before You Die", "text": "1,000 Recordings to Hear Before You Die\n\n1,000 Recordings to Hear Before You Die is a musical reference book written by Tom Moon, published in 2008.\n\nIt consists of a list of recordings, mostly albums (with some singles), arranged alphabetically by artist or composer. Each entry in the list is accompanied by a short essay followed by genre classifications, Moon's choices for \"key tracks\" from albums, the next recommended recording from the same artist or composer, and pointers to recordings on the list by other artists that are similar or otherwise related.\n\nMoon also includes a postscript of \"108 more recordings to know about\".\n\nMoon was a music critic at the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" for 20 years, and has contributed to \"Rolling Stone\", \"Blender\", and other publications.\n\nRock recordings dominate the list, which also includes a broad range of classical, jazz, blues, folk, country, R&B, electronica, hip-hop, gospel, opera, musicals, pop, vocals, and world music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28582976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28582976", "title": "Abbreviations of administrative units of Pakistan", "text": "Abbreviations of administrative units of Pakistan\n\nPakistani subnational abbreviations are used by Pakistan Post, currently in code system of two or more capital letters to represent the Administrative units of Pakistan.\n\nThe sources of the current abbreviations vary. Some are from the initials of two of the words in the name of a province or territory, while others are from the first and final letter or from the first and some other letter in the name. All of these names are based on the English form of the name. \n\nThese abbreviations are hardly used in postal mail, as most people only tend to write the name of the city/town and not the province. Since there is a five-digit postal code system and only four provinces, writing a provincial abbreviation is not a common practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "3087886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3087886", "title": "Al-Azhar Shia Fatwa", "text": "Al-Azhar Shia Fatwa\n\nThe Al-Azhar Shia Fatwa, known in Arabic as The Shaltoot Fatwa (), is an Islamic fatwa issued in 1959 on the topic of Shi'a–Sunni relations by Sunni scholar Shaikh Mahmood Shaltoot. Under Shaltoot, Sunni-Shia ecumenical activities would reach their zenith.\n\nThe fatwa is the fruit of a decade-long collaborative effort between a group of Sunni and Shi'a scholars at the Dar al-Taqreeb al-Madhahib al-Islamiyyah (\"center for bringing together the various Islamic schools of thought\") theological center at Al-Azhar University in Cairo. The aim of the effort is to bridge the gap between the various Islamic schools of thought, and to foster mutual respect, understanding and appreciation of each school's contributions to the development of Islamic jurisprudence. However, despite the ecumenical fatwa, while Shaltoot was Grand Imam of Al-Azhar he refused to establish an independent Shia chair at the University, which was one of the greatest aspirations, especially, of the Shia members of the Dar al-Taqreeb.\n\nThis rare fatwa, which admits Shia Muslims, Alawites, and Druze, who had been considered heretics and idolaters for hundreds of years, into mainstream Islam has been viewed as being inspired by Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser. Nasser saw it as a tool to spread his appeal and influence across the entire Arab world.\n\nIn 2012, due to drift towards Salafism in Al-Azhar, the dean of the Faculty of Islamic Studies at Al-Azhar issued a fatwa strongly opposed to the 1959 fatwa. It forbade worship according to the Shia tradition and condemned as heretics anyone who insulted the wives or companions of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Al-Azhar also published a book condemning the Shia.\nShaykh Ahmed el-Tayeb of Jamia Al'Azhar again reiterated Shaikh Shaltoot's position in an interview \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21099152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21099152", "title": "American Art Directory", "text": "American Art Directory\n\nThe American Art Directory is a yearly publication covering art museums, arts centers, and art educational institutions as well as news, obituaries, book and magazine publications, etc. related to the artistic community in the United States. Established in 1898, it was originally entitled \"American Art Annual\".\n\nArt consultant, advisor, author, and independent appraiser Alan Bamberger describes the Directory as \"...a required reference for art museums, libraries, arts organizations, art schools, and corporations with art holdings.\"\n\nA yearly feature is the \"Review of the Year\" article discussing the touring exhibitions, commissions, grants to organizations, construction starts at museums and other facilities, and various other events that occur within the art community.\n\nInitially the directory was the work of the New York area artist Florence Nightingale Levy and published by The Macmillan Company. The American Federation of Arts, with which Mrs. Levy was associated and which she would later become the president of, was founded in 1909 and in 1913 the directory became an official publication of that organization. It later became the independent publication it exists as currently.\n\nIn 1952 the \"American Art Annual\" was split into two separate publications, \"Who's Who in American Art\" and the \"American Art Directory\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42432218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42432218", "title": "American Geophysical Union v. Texaco, Inc.", "text": "American Geophysical Union v. Texaco, Inc.\n\nAmerican Geophysical Union v. Texaco, 60 F.3d 913 (2d Cir. 1995), was a U.S. copyright case holding that a private, for-profit corporate library could not rely on fair use in systematically making copies of articles for its employees.\n\nTexaco is a for-profit corporation, that maintained an internal library and employed a number of scientists. Texaco subscribed to journals by the American Geophysical Union, a scholarly society that publishes a number of journals. Texaco also purchased a photocopy license from the Copyright Clearance Center (CCC), an entity that licenses academic content to research organizations. Texaco, like many entities with institutional libraries, was in the practice of photocopying articles from its journals to send to employees.\n\nThe AGU and five other publishers, eventually joined by several dozen other publishers, sued Texaco. Texaco defended, citing the fair use doctrine, which holds that uses found to be \"fair,\" \"for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research,\" are not infringements of copyright.\n\nThe court ultimately deemed Texaco's use to not be fair use, and Texaco was fined and agreed to retroactively purchase a license from the Copyright Clearance Center.\n\nThe Second Circuit's fair-use analysis weighed heavily the \"fourth factor\", which considers \"the effect of the use upon the potential market for ... the copyrighted work.\" Because CCC made licenses available for the photocopying, the court held that Texaco's failure to use those licenses for all its photocopying deprived the rightsholders of lost licensing revenue. This portion of the opinion has been criticized for its circularity of reasoning: Since any use could in theory be licensed, any unlicensed use would weigh against fair use on the market harm factor.\n\n"}
{"id": "387545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387545", "title": "Anycast", "text": "Anycast\n\nAnycast is a network addressing and routing methodology in which a single destination address has multiple routing paths to two or more endpoint destinations. Routers will select the desired path on the basis of number of hops, distance, lowest cost, latency measurements or based on the least congested route. Anycast networks are widely used for content delivery network (CDN) products to bring their content closer to the end user.\n\nThe Internet Protocol and other network addressing systems recognize five main addressing methods:\n\nAnycast is not specifically supported by IPv4, but this omission can be worked around in many cases by using Border Gateway Protocol (BGP). Multiple hosts (usually in different geographic areas) are given the same unicast IP address and different routes to the address are announced through BGP. Routers consider these to be alternative routes to the same destination, though they are actually routes to different destinations with the same address. As usual, routers select a route by whatever distance metric is in use (the least cost, least congested, shortest). Selecting a route in this setup amounts to selecting a destination.\n\nThe pitfall of this approach is that a connection to an anycast address may fail because the network can change the routing of packets in mid-connection due to congestion or changes in the network, with the result that the destination changes mid-connection, though the new destination is not aware of the connection and is not maintaining the connection state. These conditions are typically referred to as a \"PoP switch\". With a normal unicast address a routing change would not be a problem, as this merely results in a different route to the same eventual destination. All packets within a connection do not normally need to follow the same path. But when the address is actually an anycast address masquerading as a unicast address (as in this design), a routing change could be a destination change.\n\nBecause of the possibility of a \"PoP switch\" in IPv4, anycast is generally used with connectionless protocols based on UDP, as a way to provide high availability and load balancing for stateless services. For example, one of the well-known applications of IPv4 anycast is the Domain Name System (DNS). This is well-suited to anycast because it is a UDP-based service providing connectionless access to domain name data which is replicated across multiple, geographically-dispersed, stateless servers, with severe demands for availability and scalability.\n\nBecause anycast is more error-prone with connection-oriented protocols such as TCP where the destination maintains state, it is less commonly used with these protocols. Some custom IP stacks use proprietary methods to provide healing of stateful protocols when necessary, mitigating problems due to anycast PoP switches.\n\nAnycast is supported explicitly in IPv6. , which covers IPv6 addressing architecture, reserves Interface Identifier 0 within an IPv6 subnet as the \"Subnet Router\" anycast address. In addition, reserves a block of 128 Interface Identifiers within a subnet as anycast addresses.\n\nMost IPv6 routers on the path of an anycast packet through the network will not distinguish it from a unicast packet, but special handling is required from the routers near the destination (that is, within the scope of the anycast address) as they are required to route an anycast packet to the \"nearest\" interface within that scope which has the proper anycast address, according to whatever measure of distance (hops, cost, etc.) is being used.\n\nThe method used in IPv4 of advertising multiple routes in BGP to multiply-assigned unicast addresses also still works in IPv6, and can be used to route packets to the nearest of several geographically dispersed hosts with the same address. This approach, which does not depend on anycast-aware routers, has the same use-cases together with the same problems and limitations as in IPv4.\n\nWith the growth of the Internet, network services increasingly have high-availability requirements. As a result, operation of anycast services () has grown in popularity among network operators.\n\nAll Internet root nameservers are implemented as clusters of hosts using anycast addressing. All thirteen root servers A–M exist in multiple locations, with eleven on multiple continents. (Root servers B and H exist in two U.S. locations.) The servers use anycast address announcements to provide a decentralized service. This has accelerated the deployment of physical (rather than logical) root servers outside the United States. documents the use of anycast addressing to provide authoritative DNS services. Many commercial DNS providers have switched to an IP anycast environment to increase query performance and redundancy, and to implement load balancing.\n\nIn IPv4 to IPv6 transitioning, anycast addressing may be deployed to provide IPv6 compatibility to IPv4 hosts. This method, 6to4, uses a default gateway with the IP address 192.88.99.1, as described in . This allows multiple providers to implement 6to4 gateways without hosts having to know each individual provider's gateway addresses.\n\nContent delivery networks may use anycast for actual HTTP connections to their distribution centers, or for DNS. Because most HTTP connections to such networks request static content such as images and style sheets, they are generally short-lived and stateless across subsequent TCP sessions. The general stability of routes and statelessness of connections makes anycast suitable for this application, even though it uses TCP.\n\nAnycast allows any operator whose routing information is accepted by an intermediate router to hijack any packets intended for the anycast address. While this at first sight appears insecure, it is no different from the routing of ordinary IP packets, and no more or less secure. As with conventional IP routing, careful filtering of who is and is not allowed to propagate route announcements is crucial to prevent man-in-the-middle or blackhole attacks. The former can also be prevented by encrypting and authenticating messages, such as using Transport Layer Security, while the latter can be frustrated by onion routing.\n\nAnycast is normally highly reliable, as it can provide automatic failover. Anycast applications typically feature external \"heartbeat\" monitoring of the server's function, and withdraw the route announcement if the server fails. In some cases this is done by the actual servers announcing the anycast prefix to the router over OSPF or another IGP. If the servers die, the router will automatically withdraw the announcement.\n\n\"Heartbeat\" functionality is important because, if the announcement continues for a failed server, the server will act as a \"black hole\" for nearby clients; this failure mode is the most serious mode of failure for an anycast system. Even in this event, this kind of failure will only cause a total failure for clients that are closer to this server than any other, and will not cause a global failure.\n\nIn denial-of-service attacks, a rogue network host may advertise itself as an anycast server for a vital network service, to provide false information or simply block service.\n\nAnycast methodologies on the Internet may be exploited to distribute DDoS attacks and reduce their effectiveness: As traffic is routed to the closest node, a process over which the attacker has no control, the DDoS traffic flow will be distributed amongst the closest nodes. Thus, not all nodes might be affected. This may be a reason to deploy anycast addressing.\n\nThe effectiveness of this technique to divert attacks is questionable, however, because unicast addresses (used for maintenance) can be easy to obtain, at least on IPv6. Now obsoleted defined that \"An anycast address must not be used as the source address of an IPv6 packet.\" Therefore, pinging an anycast address will return the unicast address of the closest node, since the reply must come from a unicast address. An attacker can then attack individual nodes from any location, bypassing anycast addressing methods. This same method works on some, but not all, IPv4 anycast addresses. also restricted anycast IPv6 addresses to routers only. However, both of these restrictions were lifted in .\n\nAuthentication of anycast transmissions may solve this problem.\n\nSome anycast deployments on the Internet distinguish between local and global nodes to benefit the local community, by addressing local nodes preferentially. An example is the Domain Name System. Local nodes are often announced with the no-export BGP community to prevent hosts from announcing them to their peers, i.e. the announcement is kept in the local area. Where both local and global nodes are deployed, the announcements from global nodes are often AS prepended (i.e. the AS is added a few more times) to make the path longer so that a local node announcement is preferred over a global node announcement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "608296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608296", "title": "Arms industry", "text": "Arms industry\n\nThe arms industry, also known as the defense industry or the arms trade, is a global industry responsible for the manufacturing and sales of weapons and military technology. It consists of a commercial industry involved in the research and development, engineering, production, and servicing of military material, equipment, and facilities. Arms-producing companies, also referred to as arms dealers, defence contractors, or as the military industry, produce arms for the armed forces of states and civilians. Departments of government also operate in the arms industry, buying and selling weapons, munitions and other military items. An arsenal is a place where arms and ammunition are made, maintained and repaired, stored, or issued, in any combination, whether privately or publicly owned. Products include guns, artillery, ammunition, missiles, military aircraft, military vehicles, ships, electronic systems, night vision devices, holographic weapon sights, laser rangefinders, laser sights, hand grenades, landmines and more. The arms industry also provides other logistical and operational support.\n\nStockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) estimated that 2012 military expenditures were roughly $1.8 trillion. This represents a relative decline from 1990 when military expenditures made up 4% of world GDP. Part of the money goes to the procurement of military hardware and services from the military industry. The combined arms sales of the top 100 largest arms-producing companies amounted to an estimated $395 billion in 2012 according to SIPRI. In 2004 over $30 billion were spent in the international arms trade (a figure that excludes domestic sales of arms). According to SIPRI, the volume of international transfers of major weapons in 2010–14 was 16 per cent higher than in 2005–2009. The five biggest exporters in 2010–2014 were the United States, Russia, China, Germany and France, and the five biggest importers were India, Saudi Arabia, China, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan.\n\nMany industrialized countries have a domestic arms-industry to supply their own military forces. Some countries also have a substantial legal or illegal domestic trade in weapons for use by its citizens, primarily for self-defence, hunting or sporting purposes. Illegal trade in small arms occurs in many countries and regions affected by political instability. The Small Arms Survey estimates that 875 million small arms circulate worldwide, produced by more than 1,000 companies from nearly 100 countries.\n\nContracts to supply a given country's military are awarded by governments, making arms contracts of substantial political importance. The link between politics and the arms trade can result in the development of what U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower described as a military-industrial complex, where the armed forces, commerce, and politics become closely linked, similarly to the European multilateral defence procurement. Various corporations, some publicly held, others private, bid for these contracts, which are often worth many billions of dollars. Sometimes, as with the contract for the international Joint Strike Fighter, a competitive tendering process takes place, with the decision made on the merits of the designs submitted by the companies involved. Other times, no bidding or competition takes place.\n\nDuring the early modern period, France, United Kingdom, Netherlands and some states in Germany became self-sufficient in arms production, with diffusion and migration of skilled workers to more peripheral countries such as Portugal and Russia.\n\nThe modern arms industry emerged in the second half of the nineteenth century as a product of the creation and expansion of the first large military-industrial companies. As smaller countries (and even newly industrializing countries like Russia and Japan) could no longer produce cutting-edge military equipment with their indigenous resources and capacity, they increasingly began to contract the manufacture of military equipment, such as battleships, artillery pieces and rifles to foreign firms.\n\nIn 1854, the British government awarded a contract to the Elswick Ordnance Company of industrialist William Armstrong for the supply of his latest breech loading rifled artillery pieces. This galvanised the private sector into weapons production, with the surplus being increasingly exported to foreign countries. Armstrong became one of the first international arms dealers, selling his weapon systems to governments across the world from Brazil to Japan. In 1884, he opened a shipyard at Elswick to specialise in warship production—at the time, it was the only factory in the world that could build a battleship and arm it completely. The factory produced warships for many navies, including the Imperial Japanese Navy. Several Armstrong cruisers played an important role in defeating the Russian fleet at the Battle of Tsushima in 1905.\n\nIn the American Civil War in 1861 the north had a distinct advantage over the south as it relied on using the breech-loading rifle against the muskets of the south. This began the transition to industrially produced mechanised weapons such as the Gatling gun.\n\nThis industrial innovation in the defence industry was adopted by Prussia in 1866 & 1870-71 in its defeat of Austria and France respectively. By this time the machine gun had begun entering into the militaries. The first example of its effectiveness was in 1899 during the Boer War and in 1905 during the Russo-Japanese War. However, Germany were leaders in innovation of weapons and used this innovation nearly defeating the allies in World War I.\n\nIn 1885, France decided to capitalize on this increasingly lucrative form of trade and repealed its ban on weapon exports. The regulatory framework for the period up to the First World War was characterized by a laissez-faire policy that placed little obstruction in the way of weapons exports. Due to the carnage of World War I, arms traders began to be regarded with odium as \"merchants of death\" and were accused of having instigated and perpetuated the war in order to maximise their profits from arms sales. An inquiry into these allegations in Britain failed to find evidence to support them. However, the sea change in attitude about war more generally meant that governments began to control and regulate the trade themselves.\n\nThe volume of the arms trade greatly increased during the 20th century, and it began to be used as a political tool, especially during the Cold War where the United States and the USSR supplied weapons to their proxies across the world, particularly third world countries (see Nixon Doctrine).\n\nThis category includes everything from light arms to heavy artillery, and the majority of producers are small. Many are located in third world countries. International trade in handguns, machine guns, tanks, armored personnel carriers, and other relatively inexpensive weapons is substantial. There is relatively little regulation at the international level, and as a result, many weapons fall into the hands of organized crime, rebel forces, terrorists, or regimes under sanctions.\n\nThe Control Arms Campaign, founded by Amnesty International, Oxfam, and the International Action Network on Small Arms, estimated in 2003 that there are over 639 million small arms in circulation, and that over 1,135 companies based in more than 98 different countries manufacture small arms as well as their various components and ammunition.\n\nEncompassing military aircraft (both land-based and naval aviation), conventional missiles, and military satellites, this is the most technologically advanced sector of the market. It is also the least competitive from an economic standpoint, with a handful of companies dominating the entire market. The top clients and major producers are virtually all located in the western world and Russia, with the United States easily in first place. Prominent aerospace firms include Rolls Royce, BAE, Dassault Aviation, Sukhoi, Mikoyan, EADS, Leonardo, Thales Group, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Boeing. There are also several multinational consortia mostly involved in the manufacturing of fighter jets, such as the Eurofighter. The largest military contract in history, signed in October 2001, involved the development of the Joint Strike Fighter.\n\nSome of the world's great powers maintain substantial naval forces to provide a global presence, with the largest nations possessing aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines and advanced anti-air defense systems. The vast majority of military ships are conventionally powered, but some are nuclear-powered. There is also a large global market in second-hand naval vessels, generally purchased by developing countries from Western governments.\n\nThe cybersecurity industry is becoming the most important defence industry as cyber attacks are being deemed as one of the greatest risk to defence in the next ten years as cited by the NATO review in 2013. Therefore, high levels of investment has been placed in the cybersecurity industry to produce new software to protect the ever-growing transition to digitally run hardware. For the military industry it is vital that protections are used for systems used for reconnaissance, surveillance and intelligence gathering. However, to protect the cyber world from attacks there are advanced cyber protection strategies used such as content, cloud and wireless security. These can be intertwined to form several secure layers.\n\nNevertheless, cyber attacks and cyber attackers have become more advanced in their field using techniques such as Dynamic Trojan Horse Network (DTHN) Internet Worm, Zero-Day Attack, and Stealth Bot. As a result, the cybersecurity industry has had to improve the defence technologies to remove any vulnerability to cyber attacks using systems such as the Security of Information (SIM), Next-Generation Firewalls (NGFWs) and DDoS techniques.\n\nAs the threat to computers grows, the demand for cyber protection will rise, resulting in the growth of the cybersecurity industry. It is expected that the industry will be dominated by the defence and homeland security agencies that will make up 40% of the industry.\n\nAccording to research institute, SIPRI, the volume of international transfers of major weapons in 2010–14 was 16 per cent higher than in 2005–2009. The five biggest exporters in 2010–14 were the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, China and France, and the five biggest importers were India, Saudi Arabia, China, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Pakistan. The flow of arms to Africa, the Americas, Asia and Oceania, and the Middle East increased significantly between 2005–2009 and 2010–14, while there was a notable decrease in the flow to Europe.\n\nSIPRI has identified 60 countries as exporters of major weapons in 2010–14. The top 5 exporters during the period were responsible for almost 74 per cent of all arms exports. The composition of the five largest exporters of arms changed between 2005–2009 and 2010–14: while the United States and Russia remained by far the largest exporters, China narrowly, but notably, replaced Germany as the third largest exporter as Germany slid down to 6th place. The top 5 exported 14 per cent more arms in 2010–14 than the top 5 in 2005–2009.\n\nIn 2010–14, 153 countries (about three-quarters of all countries) imported major weapons. The top 5 recipients accounted for 33 per cent of the total arms imports during the period (see table 2). India, China and the UAE were among the top 5 importers in both 2005–2009 and 2010–14. Asia and Oceania accounted for nearly half of imports in 2010–14, followed by the Middle East, Europe, the Americas and Africa (see figure 3). SIPRI also identified seven groups of rebel forces as importers of major weapons in 2010–14, but none of them accounted for more than 0.02 per cent of total deliveries.\n\nUnits are in Trend Indicator Values expressed as millions of U.S. dollars at 1990s prices. These numbers may not represent real financial flows as prices for the underlying arms can be as low as zero in the case of military aid. The following are estimates from Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.\n\nPlease note that rankings for exporters below a billion dollars are less meaningful, as they can be swayed by single contracts. A much more accurate picture of export volume, free from yearly fluctuations, is presented by 5-year moving averages.\n\nNext to SIPRI there are several other sources that provide data on international transfers of arms. These include national reports by national governments about arms exports, the UN register on conventional arms and an annual publication by the U.S. Congressional Research Service that includes data on arms exports to developing countries as compiled by U.S. intelligence agencies. A list of such sources can be found at the SIPRI website. Due to the different methodologies and definitions used different sources often provide significantly different data. \n\nSIPRI uses the \"trend-indicator values\" (TIV). These are based on the known unit production costs of weapons and represent the transfer of military resources rather than the financial value of the transfer.\n\nUnits are in Trend Indicator Values expressed as millions of U.S. dollars at 1990s prices. These numbers may not represent real financial flows as prices for the underlying arms can be as low as zero in the case of military aid. \nPlease note that arms import rankings fluctuate heavily as countries enter and exit wars. Export data tend to be less volatile as exporters tend to be more technologically advanced and have stable production flows. 5-year moving averages present a much more accurate picture of import volume, free from yearly fluctuations.\n\nThis is a list of the world's largest arms manufacturers and other military service companies who profit the most from the War economy, their origin is shown as well. The information is based on a list published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute for 2015. The list provided by the SIPRI excludes companies based in China.\n\nArms control refers to international restrictions upon the development, production, stockpiling, proliferation and usage of small arms, conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction. It is typically exercised through the use of diplomacy, which seeks to persuade governments to accept such limitations through agreements and treaties, although it may also be forced upon non-consenting governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11864626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11864626", "title": "Ascent of Mont Ventoux", "text": "Ascent of Mont Ventoux\n\nThe Italian poet Petrarch wrote about his ascent of Mont Ventoux (in Provence; elevation 1912 meters) on 26 April 1336 in a well-known letter published as one of his \"Epistolae familiares\" (IV, 1). In this letter, written around 1350, Petrarch claimed to be the first person since antiquity to have climbed a mountain for the view. Although the historical accuracy of his account has been questioned by modern scholars, it is often cited in discussions of the new spirit of the Renaissance.\n\nPetrarch's letter is addressed to his former confessor, Dionigi di Borgo San Sepolcro. It says he ascended the mountain with his brother Gherardo and two servants, exactly ten years after they had left Bologna. They began at the village of Malaucène at the foot of the mountain. On the way up they met an old shepherd, who said he had climbed the mountain some fifty years before, finding only rocks and brambles, and that no-one else had done it before or since. The brothers continued, Gherardo continuing up the ridge they were following, Petrarch ever trying for an easier, if longer, path. At the top, they found a peak called \"Filiolus\", \"Little Son\"; Petrarch reflected on the past ten years, and the waste of his earthly love for Laura. They looked out from here, seeing the Rhone and the Cévennes, but not the Pyrenees (which are 200 miles away). At this point, Petrarch sat down and opened his Augustine, and immediately came upon \"People are moved to wonder by mountain peaks, by vast waves of the sea, by broad waterfalls on rivers, by the all-embracing extent of the ocean, by the revolutions of the stars. But in themselves they are uninterested.\" Petrarch fell silent on this trip down, reflecting on the vanity of human wishes and the nobility of uncorrupted human thought. When they arrived back in the village in the middle of the night, Petrarch wrote this letter \"hastily and extemporaneously\" - or so he says.\n\nIt is often claimed that Petrarch was the first to climb Mont Ventoux, although he did not suggest so himself. The mountain was likely already climbed in prehistoric times and there is even a slightly older written account of an ascent, by Jean Buridan, who on his way to the papal court in Avignon before the year 1334 climbed Mt. Ventoux \"in order to make some meteorological observations\". It further seems implausible that Petrarch sat down and wrote the six thousand words we have, in elegant Latin with correct quotations from the classical poets, before dinner after an eighteen-hour hike up and down a mountain. In fact, whether Petrarch himself climbed the mountain has been doubted by modern scholars; according to Pierre Courcelle and Giuseppe Billanovich, the letter is essentially a fiction written almost fifteen years after its supposed date, and almost a decade after the death of its addressee, Francesco Dionigi da Borgo San Sepulcro. Lyell Asher argued, indeed, that the ascent of the mountain was a figurative account of writing the letter itself.\n\nJakob Burckhardt, in \"The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy\" declared Petrarch \"a truly modern man\", because of the significance of nature for his \"receptive spirit\"; even if he did not yet have the skill to describe nature. Petrarch's implication that he was the first to climb mountains for pleasure, and Burckhardt's insistence on Petrarch's sensitivity to nature have been often repeated since. There are also numerous references to Petrarch as an \"alpinist\", although Mont Ventoux is not a hard climb, and is not usually considered part of the Alps. This implicit claim of Petrarch and Burckhardt, that Petrarch was the first to climb a mountain for pleasure since antiquity, was disproven by Lynn Thorndike in 1943.\n\n\"The Legitimacy of the Modern Age\" by Hans Blumenberg describes Petrarch's ascent of Ventoux as \"one of the great moments that oscillate indecisively between the epochs,\" namely between the medieval period and modernity. He also uses it to illustrate his theory of intellectual history: \"The description of the ascent of Mont Ventoux exemplifies graphically what is meant by the 'reality' of history as the reoccupation of formal systems of positions.\"\n\nJames Hillman, in \"Re-Visioning Psychology\", uses the story of Petrarch's ascent to illustrate his argument that \nthe outer world of nature is mirrored by an equally vast inner world of images. Both worlds exist apart from the human being. The outer world may have motivated Petrarch to climb Mont Ventoux, but the inner world is what he discovered when he reached the top and read the passage from Augustine's \"Confessions\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54245247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54245247", "title": "Azerbaijan State Agriculture Museum", "text": "Azerbaijan State Agriculture Museum\n\nThe Azerbaijan State Agriculture Museum, established in 1924, presents the history of agricultural development in Azerbaijan and reflects its current state. \n\nThe museum has more than 10,000 exhibits and mostly describes agricultural tools, both traditional and modern, and models of harvesters. The museum exposition covers various fields of agriculture: crop growing, cattle breeding, and horticulture. A variety of exhibits are devoted to ethnography: documents and photos as well as facilities reflecting the traditional way of rural life. \n\nThere is an old hand-mill for grinding flour which is more than 100 years old and an oil lamp of the same age, a stone extracting grape juice, ceramic jugs for milk whipping and butter production and stirrups, saddles.\n\nThere are two maps in the museum that has been embroidered with silk threads and the other one has been made of wheat grains, lentils and watercress.\n\nThe museum guides wear Azerbaijani national garments and traditional music is played in the halls of the museum.\n\nThe museum regularly features documentary film screenings and lectures, and organizes travelling exhibitions. The Azerbaijani State Agriculture Museum is especially popular among students of various educational institutions for whom special thematic visits and lessons are organized where they are able to experience the stages of development of agriculture in Azerbaijan. The museum is interesting for both children and adults.\n"}
{"id": "243345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243345", "title": "Beinecke Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library", "text": "Beinecke Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library\n\nThe Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library is the rare book library and literary archive of the Yale University Library in New Haven, Connecticut. Situated on Yale University's Hewitt Quadrangle, the building was designed by Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and completed in 1963. Established by a gift of the Beinecke family and given its own endowment, the library is financially independent from the university and is co-governed by the University Library and Yale Corporation. It is one of the largest buildings in the world entirely dedicated to rare books and manuscripts. \n\nThe library's iconic building reopened in September 2016 after an 18-month closure for major renovations, which included replacing the building's HVAC system and expanding teaching and exhibition capabilities.\n\nA six-story above-ground glass-enclosed tower of book stacks is encased by a windowless façade, supported by four monolithic piers at the corners of the building. The exterior shell is structurally supported by a steel frame with pylons embedded to bedrock at each corner pier. The façade is constructed of translucent veined marble and granite. The marble is milled to a thickness of and was quarried from Danby, Vermont. On a sunny day the marble transmits filtered daylight to the interior in a subtle golden amber glow, a product of its thin profile. These panels are framed by a hexagonal grid of Vermont Woodbury granite veneer, fastened to a structural steel frame. The outside dimensions have \"Platonic\" mathematical proportions of 1:2:3 (height: width: length). The building has been called a \"jewel box\", and also a \"laboratory for the humanities\". The Modernist structure contains furniture designed by Florence Knoll and Marcel Breuer.\n\nAn elevated public exhibition mezzanine surrounds the glass stack tower, and displays among other things, one of the 48 extant copies of the Gutenberg Bible. Two basement floors extend under much of Hewitt Quadrangle. The first sub-grade level, the \"Court\" level, centers on a sunken courtyard in front of the Beinecke, which features \"The Garden (Pyramid, Sun, and Cube)\". These are abstract allegorical sculptures by Isamu Noguchi that are said to represent time (the pyramid), sun (the disc), and chance (the cube). This level also features a secure reading room for visiting researchers, administrative offices, and book storage areas. The level of the building two floors below ground has movable-aisle compact shelving for books and archives.\n\nThe Beinecke is one of the larger buildings in America devoted entirely to rare books and manuscripts. The library has room in the central tower for 180,000 volumes and room for over 1,000,000 volumes in the underground book stacks. The library's collection, which is housed both in the library's main building and at Yale University's Library Shelving Facility in Hamden, Connecticut, totals roughly 1 million volumes and several million manuscripts.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the Claes Oldenburg sculpture \"Lipstick on Caterpillar Tracks (Ascending)\" was displayed in Hewitt Quadrangle. The sculpture has since been moved to the courtyard of Morse College, one of the university's residential dormitories.\n\nThe elegance of the Beinecke later inspired the glass-walled structure that protects and displays the original core collection (the books gifted by King George III and referred to as the King's Library) within the British Library building in Euston, London.\n\nIn the late 19th century, rare and valuable books of the Library of Yale College were placed on special shelving at the College Library, now known as Dwight Hall. When the university received a multimillion-dollar bequest from John W. Sterling for the construction of Sterling Memorial Library in 1918, the university decided to create a dedicated reading room for its rare books, which became the building's Rare Book Room when the building opened in 1930. Because the bequest did not contain an allowance for books or materials, Yale English professor Chauncey Brewster Tinker petitioned Yale alumni to donate materials that would give the university a collection as monumental as its new building. By the time Sterling opened, Tinker's appeal garnered an impressive collection of rare books, including a Gutenberg Bible from Anna M. Harkness and several major collections from the Beinecke family, most notably its collection on the American West.\n\nBy 1958, the library owned more than 130,000 rare volumes and many more manuscripts. The amassed collection proved too large for Sterling's reading room, and the reading room unsuited to their preservation. Having already given significant collections to Yale, Edwin and Frederick Beinecke—as well as Johanna Weigle, widow of their brother Walter—gave funds to build a dedicated rare books library building. When the Beinecke Library opened on October 14, 1963, it became the home of the volumes from Rare Book Room, and three special collections: the Collection of American Literature, the Collection of Western Americana, and the Collection of German Literature. Shortly afterward, they were joined by the James Marshall and Marie-Louise Osborn Collection.\n\nBeinecke Library became the repository for books in the Yale collection printed anywhere before 1800, books printed in Latin America before 1751, books printed in North America before 1821, newspapers and broadsides printed in the United States before 1851, European tracts and pamphlets printed before 1801, and Slavic, East European, Near and Middle Eastern books through the eighteenth century, as well as special books outside these categories.\n\nNow, the collection spans through to the present day, including such modern works as limited-edition poetry and artists' books. The library also contains thousands of linear feet of archival material, ranging from ancient papyri and medieval manuscripts to the archived personal papers of modern writers.\n\nThe library is open to all Yale University students and faculty, and to visiting researchers whose work requires use of its special collections. In order to access materials, there are a few forms and policies that users must read.\n\nThe holdings of the Beinecke Library include:\n\n\nIn addition to items on permanent display such as the Gutenberg Bible, the Beinecke offers a year-round program of temporary exhibits drawn from its collections. For example, in 2006 the library presented \"Breaking the Binding: Printing and the Third Dimension\", a show of flap books, pop-ups, perspective books, panoramas, and peep-shows in printed form. Display cases are located on the mezzanine level and at the ground floor entry level, and may be freely viewed by the general public whenever the library is open.\n\nThe Library celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2013. There were two full-year exhibitions that explored the library's architecture and people as well as a series of showcases of rarely seen manuscripts, printed works, and visual objects from across all curatorial areas.\n\nSecurity measures were significantly increased after the well-known antiques dealer Edward Forbes Smiley III was caught cutting maps from rare books with an X-acto blade in 2005. Smiley's scheme was discovered when he dropped his concealed tool in the reading room, and he subsequently served several years in prison for thefts of rare documents valued in millions of dollars from the Beinecke and other libraries. The library operates under a closed stack system, and rigorous security rules now allow carefully controlled access to materials under video surveillance.\n\nThe glass-enclosed central stacks (not accessible to the public) can be flooded with a mix of Halon 1301 and Inergen fire suppressant gas if fire detectors are triggered. A previous system using carbon dioxide was removed for personnel safety reasons.\n\nAfter an infestation of the death watch beetle was discovered in 1977, the Beinecke Library helped pioneer the non-toxic method of controlling paper-eating pests by freezing books and documents at for three days. All new acquisitions are given this treatment as a precaution, and the deep freeze method is now widely accepted for pest control in special collections libraries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23435078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23435078", "title": "Betty Niccoli", "text": "Betty Niccoli\n\nBetty Jo Niccoli (born October 9, 1943) is an American former female professional wrestler. She wrestled in the United States, Canada, and Japan. She was also influential in helping lift the ban of women's wrestling in the state of New York.\n\nNiccoli first saw a professional wrestling match at the age of 15 in St. Joseph, Missouri in 1958, when promoter Gust Karras suggested she might one day make a good female professional wrestler. Several years later in 1963, Karras arranged for her to start training. Her first match was a battle royal in Sedalia, Missouri.\n\nShe wrestled in a series of matches with and against Kay Noble in the 1960s. In August 1970, Niccoli was awarded the NWA United States Women's Championship, but she vacated it later that year, and the title remained inactive until December 1974. She teamed with Paul Peller in February 1971 for a series of mixed tag team matches against Jean Antone and Gil Hayes. Three years after holding the US Championship, in August 1973, she won the AWA World Women's Championship from Vivian Vachon in Canada. She held the title in November 1984, when Candi Devine defeated her for it. While still holding the AWA title, she spent three months in Japan in 1974, during which time she held All Japan Women's Pro-Wrestling's WWWA World Tag Team Championship four times with partner Sandy Parker. Back in the United States, she helped lift the ban on women's wrestling by the New York State Athletic Commission in the state of New York. Niccoli, however, never got a chance to wrestle in the state herself.\n\nAfter retiring in 1976, Niccoli stayed out of the wrestling world until she visited a Cauliflower Alley Club (CAC) reunion in 2007. The following year, she was inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame and Museum in the \"Lady Wrestler\" category. She was also honored by the CAC in 2008.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Niccoli met male professional wrestler Akio Sato, who was ten years her junior, during a mixed tag team match in Bob Geigel's promotion in the Central United States. The two married a year later, and in 1976, she retired from wrestling. The couple had two daughters, both of whom Niccoli stayed at home to raise. After her children were old enough to move out of the house, Niccoli began working at the Argosy Casino.\n\n"}
{"id": "1596926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596926", "title": "Certificate of freedom", "text": "Certificate of freedom\n\nA Certificate of Freedom was a government issued document given to a convict in one of the Australian penal colonies at the end of the convict's sentence. This stated that the ex-convict had been restored \"to all the rights and privileges of free subjects\", effectively now a free person, and could seek out employment or leave the colony.\n\nCertificates of Freedom were introduced in 1810 and were generally granted to convicts, upon application to the Governor, who had served their 7, 10, or 14-year sentence. Convicts who had received a life sentence could receive a pardon but not a Certificate of Freedom.\n\nThere were three classifications given to convicts who were to be given greater freedoms. The first level was the ticket of leave, which still imposed significant restriction upon the individual and could be issued after at least half the original sentence was served. After the entire original sentence was served a 'certificate of freedom' could be issued no remaining restrictions upon the individual. A third category was a conditional pardon or full pardon, which were issued to prisoners who had received a life sentence.\n\nThe information contained on the certificate usually noted the date, person's name, aliases (if any), ship on which they were transported, year of arrival, when tried and their sentence in years. Certificates from 1827 to 1867 also gave native place, calling, year of birth, physical description and sometimes ticket of leave information.\n\nCertificates comprised two components. The certificate proper was issued to the person named and it was mandatory for the person to carry that document with them at all times. The second component was the 'butt'; this was the official copy and was kept on file by the government. The certificates proper are quite rare as they were in constant use by the owner. The 'butts' are still retained in archive records and are available for researchers.\n\nA variation on the Certificate of Freedom was the Colonial Certificate of Freedom, which related to sentences received for offenses committed after arrival in the colony.\n\nThere were approximately 40,000 Certificates of Freedom issued by the Colony of New South Wales. Tasmania and Western Australia also received convicts and issued Certificates of Freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "6720020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6720020", "title": "Chavismo", "text": "Chavismo\n\nChavismo, also known as Chavism and Chavezism (Spanish: \"Chavecismo\"), is a left-wing political ideology based on the ideas, programs and government style associated with the former Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez that combines elements of socialism, left-wing populism, patriotism, internationalism, Bolivarianism, feminism, green politics and Caribbean and Latin American integration.\n\nStrong supporters of Chávez and \"Chavismo\" are known as \"Chavistas\".\n\nSeveral political parties in Venezuela support \"Chavismo\". The main party, founded by Chávez, is the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (), usually referred to by the four letters PSUV). Other parties and movements supporting \"Chavismo\" include Fatherland for All (Spanish: \"Patria Para Todos\" or PPT) and \"Tupamaros\".\n\nBroadly, \"Chavismo\" policies include nationalization, social welfare programs and opposition to neoliberalism (particularly the policies of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank). According to Chávez, Venezuelan socialism accepts private property, but this socialism seeks to promote social property too, much like social democracy while also supporting participatory democracy and workplace democracy.\n\nIn January 2007, Chávez proposed to build the communal state, whose main idea is to build self-government institutions like communal councils, communes and communal cities.\n\nAccording to political scientist John Magdaleno, the number of Venezuelans who define themselves as \"Chavistas\" has declined since the death of Hugo Chávez and the deterioration of the economy during Nicolás Maduro's tenure from 44% in October 2012 to around 22% in December 2014. In February 2014, a poll conducted by International Consulting Services, an organization created by Dr. Juan Vicente Scorza, a sociologist and anthropologist for the National Experimental University of the Armed Forces, found that 62% of Venezuelans consider themselves supporters or followers of the ideals of Chávez.\n\nBy 2016, many \"Chavistas\" became disenchanted with the Bolivarian government and sought to emigrate from Venezuela to a more stable country.\n\nDespite its claim to socialist rhetoric, \"Chavismo\" has been frequently described as being state capitalist by critics. In a 2017 interview, after being asked if he would take Venezuela's failing economy as an admission that socialism \"wrecked people's lives\", philosopher Noam Chomsky said: \"I never described Chavez's state capitalist government as 'socialist' or even hinted at such an absurdity. It was quite remote from socialism. Private capitalism remained ... Capitalists were free to undermine the economy in all sorts of ways, like massive export of capital.\" Critics also frequently point towards Venezuela's large private sector. In 2009, roughly 70% of Venezuela's gross domestic product was created by the private sector. \n\nAcademic research produced about \"Chavismo\" shows a considerable consensus when acknowledging its early shift to the left and its strong populist component. However, besides these two points there is significant disagreement in the literature. According to Kirk A. Hawkins, scholars are generally divided into two camps: a liberal democratic one that sees \"Chavismo\" as an instance of democratic backsliding and a radical democratic one that upholds \"Chavismo\" as the fulfillment of its aspirations for participatory democracy. Hawkins argues that the most important division between these two groups is neither methodological nor theoretical, but ideological. It is a division over basic normative views of democracy: liberalism versus radicalism (page 312).\n\nScholars in this camp adhered to a classical liberal ideology that valued procedural democracy (competitive elections, widespread participation defined primarily in terms of voting and civil liberties) as the political means best suited to achieving human welfare. Many of these scholars had a liberal vision of economics, although some were moderate social democrats who were critical of neoliberalism. Together, they saw \"Chavismo\" in a mostly negative light as a case of democratic backsliding or even competitive authoritarianism or electoral authoritarian regime. The most relevant aspects of the liberal critique of \"Chavismo\" are the following:\n\nScholars in this camp generally adhered to a classical socialist ideology that mistrusted market institutions in either the state or the economy. They saw procedural democracy as insufficient to ensure political inclusion (although they still accepted the importance of liberal democratic institutions) and emphasized participatory forms of democracy and collective worker ownership in the economy. They tended toward descriptions of the movement that celebrated its participatory features or analyzed its potential weaknesses for accomplishing its revolutionary goals. Most of these scholars supported \"Chavismo\" and helped constitute the civilian wing of the movement. Radical scholars argue that democracy can only become effective if it is deepened—and they feel that \"Chavismo\" is doing this deepening, which requires not only the greater inclusion of poor and excluded sectors in decision making but their remaking into a new \"popular\" identity that facilitates their autonomy and dignity. For some of these scholars, deepening also means the adoption of a socialist economy and some argue it requires taking power through charismatic leadership, which would have enough political support to conduct structural reforms (pages 313–319).\n\nIn \"The Weekly Standard\" in 2005, Thor Halvorssen Mendoza described the core of \"Chavismo\" as a \"far-reaching foreign policy that aims to establish a loosely aligned federation of revolutionary republics as a resistance bloc in the Americas\".\n\nIn 2006, Noam Chomsky expressed a certain degree of support for Chávez and his policies, saying that he was \"quite interested\" by his policies and that he regarded \"many of them\" as \"quite constructive\", noting that most importantly Chávez seemed to enjoy overwhelming support from his people after \"six closely supervised elections\".\n\nAccording to an article in \"The New York Sun\", \"Chavismo\" was rejected in elections around 2006 in Peru, Colombia and Mexico. \"El Universal\" reported that former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva kept distance from \"Chavismo\", saying that Brazil is not Venezuela and has traditional institutions. Still, Lula supported Chávez in the Venezuelan presidential election of 2012 and also supported Nicolás Maduro in Venezuelan presidential election of 2013 and led his own political ideology.\n\n\"The Nation\" noted on its editorial pages the following: <poem>\"Chavismo\" is not an adequate description of the social movement that makes up Chávez's political base, since many organizations predate his rise to political power, and their leaders and cadre have a sophisticated understanding of their relationship with Chávez. Over the last couple of years, a number of social scientists have done field work in urban \"barrios\", and their findings confirm that this synergy between the central government and participatory local organizations has expanded, not restricted, debate and that democracy is thriving in Venezuela.\n\n\"Chavismo\" has ripped open the straitjacket of post–Cold War Latin American discourse, particularly the taboo against government regulation of the economy and economic redistribution. Public policy, including economic policy, is now open to discussion and, importantly, popular influence. This is in sharp contrast to Costa Rica, where a few months ago its Supreme Court, with the support of its executive branch, prohibited public universities from not just opposing but even debating the Central American Free Trade Agreement, which soon won a national referendum by a razor-thin margin.</poem>\n\nIn February 2014, about a year following Hugo Chávez's death, \"The Atlantic\" stated the following: Hugo Chávez based his popularity on his extraordinary charisma, lots of discretionary money, and a key and well-tested political message: denouncing the past and promising a better future for all. The country's widespread student protests now symbolize the demise of this message. Venezuelans younger than 30 years of age (the majority of the population) have not known any government other than that of Chávez or Maduro. For them, \"Chavismo\" is the past. As for the promises of a better future: The results are in. The catastrophic consequences of Chávez's 21st-century socialism are impossible to mask any longer and the government has run out of excuses. Blaming the CIA, the \"fascist opposition\", or \"dark international forces\", as Maduro and his allies customarily do, has become fodder for parodies flooding YouTube. The concrete effects of 15 years of \"Chavismo\" are all too visible in empty shelves and overflowing morgues.\n\nIn 2015, when \"The Economist\" was commenting about corruption in Latin America, it said the following: The viceroys of the colonial era set the pattern. They centralised power and bought the loyalty of local interest groups. [...] \"Caudillos\", dictators and elected presidents continued the tradition of personalising power. Venezuela's \"Chavismo\" and the \"Kirchnerismo\" of Ms Fernández are among today's manifestations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40703727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40703727", "title": "Codex of Munich", "text": "Codex of Munich\n\nCodex of Munich (or Munich Codex) is a part of the oldest known Hungarian translation of the Bible, called Bible of Hussittes (or the Hussite Bible). It was written at Tatros (today Târgu Trotuș, Romania) in 1466. Today it is located in Munich at Bavarian State Library. (Cod. Hung. 1)\n\nCodex of Munich contains the Hungarian translation of the four Gospels. At the recto of the 108th letter, at the end of Gospel of John, there is written who made the copy, where and when it was produced. As it is written, script was finished by György Németi, Son of Imre Henzsel. There is no further mention about him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1266596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266596", "title": "Comparison of Dewey and Library of Congress subject classification", "text": "Comparison of Dewey and Library of Congress subject classification\n\nThis is a conversion chart showing how the Dewey Decimal and Library of Congress Classification systems organize resources by concept, in part for the purpose of assigning . These two systems account for over 95% of the classification in United States libraries, and are used widely around the world.\n\nThe chart includes all ninety-nine second level (two-digit) DDC classes (040 is not assigned), and should include all second level (two-digit) LCC classes. Where a class in one system maps to several classes in other system, it will be listed multiple times (e.g. DDC class 551).\n\nAdditional information on these classification plans is available at:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5274089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5274089", "title": "Comparison of Portuguese and Spanish", "text": "Comparison of Portuguese and Spanish\n\nPortuguese and Spanish, although closely related sister languages, differ in many details of their phonology, grammar, and lexicon. Both are part of a broader group known as West Iberian Romance, which also includes several other languages or dialects with fewer speakers, all of which are mutually intelligible to some degree.\n\nThe most obvious differences are in pronunciation. Mutual intelligibility is generally greater for the written languages than for their spoken forms. Compare, for example, the following sentences:\n—roughly equivalent to the English proverb \"A word to the wise is sufficient,\" or, a more literal translation, \"To a good listener, a few words are enough.\"\n\nThere are also some significant differences between Brazilian Portuguese and European Portuguese as there are between British and American English or Peninsular and Latin American Spanish. This article notes these differences below only where: \nPortuguese and Spanish share a great number of words that are spelled either identically or almost identically (although the pronunciation almost always differs), or which differ sometimes in predictable ways. Consider, for example, the following paragraph, taken from the , by Manuel Seco (Espasa Calpe, 1989), and compare it to the Portuguese rendition below, noting the lexical similarity and the slight changes in word order:\n\n\"Pero, a pesar de esta variedad de posibilidades que la voz posee, sería un muy pobre instrumento de comunicación si no contara más que con ella. La capacidad de expresión del hombre no dispondría de más medios que la de los animales. La voz, sola, es para el hombre escasamente una materia informe, que para convertirse en un instrumento perfecto de comunicación debe ser sometida a un cierto tratamiento. Esa manipulación que recibe la voz son las \"articulaciones\".\"\n\n\"Mas, apesar da variedade de possibilidades que a voz possui, seria um instrumento de comunicação muito pobre se não se contasse com mais do que ela. A capacidade de expressão do homem não disporia de mais meios que a dos animais. A voz, sozinha, é para o homem apenas uma matéria informe, que para se converter num instrumento perfeito de comunicação deve ser submetida a um certo tratamento. Essa manipulação que a voz recebe são as \"articulações\".\"\n\nMost of the frequent words in the two languages share a common origin in Latin, but several of these cognates differ, to a greater or lesser extent, in meaning.\n\nSome words have two forms in one language, but just one in the other: \n\nSome pairs of cognates differ in that they have a broader or narrower meaning in one language than in the other, or their meanings are entirely different. On this basis they are termed \"false friends\":\n\nMany pairs of cognates have come to have different meanings due to semantic change. These false friends include the following: \n\nA number of the frequent \"function words\" (pronouns, conjunctions, etc.) are cognates in the two languages but are used in slightly different ways, including the following:\n\nThe Spanish pronoun \"todo\" can mean 'all/every', or 'everything'. Portuguese distinguishes between \"todo\" 'all/every' (masculine) and \"tudo\" 'everything' (neuter, used for an indefinite object or abstraction).\n\nSpanish uses an acute accent on interrogative pronouns, while the corresponding relative pronouns (etymologically the same words) are spelled without the accent to mark the difference in prosodic stress. (As explained below, the acute accent often changes the vowel sound in Portuguese, but not Spanish.) For example, \"¿quién?\" (who?) and \"quien\" (who) in Spanish, but \"quem\" for both in Portuguese. Apart from that, while \"quem\" is invariable, Spanish has both the singular \"quién\" and the plural \"quiénes.\". As shown by the examples below, the difference between singular and plural is highligted by the use of \"é\" for singular and \"são\" for plural:\nExample 1:\n\nIn the Portuguese examples, the \"m\" at the end of \"quem\" is an approximant. It is also a marker for nasalization, as is the nasal diphthong \"ão\" in \"são\").\n\nSpanish distinguishes the adjective \"mucho\" 'much/many' from the adverb \"muy\" 'very/quite'. Portuguese uses \"muito\" for both (there's also \"mui\", but it is considered old-fashioned)\n\nAs an adjective, \"muito\" is inflected according to the gender and number of the noun it qualifies, like \"mucho\". As an adverb, it is invariable like \"muy\". Thus, it would be incorrect to say *\"muitas maduras\" in the second example.\n\nThe cardinal numbers are very similar in Spanish and Portuguese, but there are differences of usage in numbers one and two. Spanish has different words for the masculine singular indefinite article ('a, an') and the numeral 'one', thus \"un capítulo\" 'a chapter', but \"capítulo uno\" 'chapter one'. In Portuguese, both words are the same: \"um capítulo\" and \"capítulo um\". Spanish \"uno\" can also be used as a pronoun, like the English generic \"one\", to represent an indeterminate subject, but this is not possible with Portuguese \"um\"; the reflexive pronoun \"se\" is used instead. \"Se\" may be used in Spanish to form passive and impersonal constructions, as well.\n\nThis still applies in cases where a relatively indeterminate subject is genderized, such as the Spanish \"todos a una [voz]\" ('all at once', literally 'all at one [voice]'). It should be rewritten in Portuguese without any cardinal number. For example, \"todos juntos\" 'all together'.\n\nOn the other hand, in Portuguese, cardinal number 'two' inflects with gender (\"dois\" if masculine, \"duas\" if feminine), while in Spanish \"dos\" is used for both.\n\nThe conjunction \"and\" in Spanish is \"y\" (pronounced before a consonant, before a vowel) before all words except those beginning with an sound (spelled \"i\"- or \"hi\"-). Before a syllabic sound (and not the diphthong as in \"hierro\"), the Spanish conjunction is \"e\" . Portuguese uses \"e\" before all words.\n\nSimilarly, for the conjunction \"or\" Spanish uses \"o\" before all words except those beginning with \"o\"- or \"ho\"-, in which case it uses \"u\" . Portuguese always uses \"ou\" ~.\n\nIn Portuguese, the word \"se\" can be a reflexive pronoun or a conjunction meaning 'if'. This may give the false impression that a Portuguese verb is pronominal when it is not. For example, \"Se ficou em Paris...\" means 'If one stayed in Paris...' When the conjunction \"se\" precedes a pronominal verb, it is common to have a double \"se\" in the sentence, such as \"Se se esqueceu da sua senha...\" 'If you forgot your password...'\n\nSpanish \"le\" and \"les\" are changed to \"se\" when followed by \"lo\", \"la\", \"los\", or \"las\". For example, \"Mi abuelo les compró los regalos\" becomes \"Mi abuelo se los compró\". See also \"Combining pronouns in Spanish\" below. In addition, Spanish uses \"sé\" as an irregular verb in the first person singular indicative of \"saber\" (to know), and the second person singular imperative of \"ser\" (to be). In Portuguese, these are \"sei\" and \"sê\" respectively.\n\nDespite the mostly cognate vocabulary between Spanish and Portuguese, a significant number of common words are entirely different in the two languages (although in some cases cognates exist, but are rare or archaic in one of the two languages). Examples include the following:\nVocabulary differences between the two languages arose from various factors:\n\nBoth Portuguese and Spanish have borrowed loanwords either directly from French or by way of French as an intermediary from other (mostly Greco-Latin) sources. Although no statistical study based on uniform criteria has been carried out, it has been suggested that words of French origin in Portuguese are significantly more numerous than those in Spanish. Here are some examples: \nSpanish kept much of the Mozarabic vocabulary of Arabic origin, while the Mozarabic component was less extensive in Portuguese. Thus we find a number of cases in which the usual Spanish word is derived from Arabic, while the corresponding word in Portuguese is Latin- or Celtic-derived, as in the following examples:\n\nThere are some examples where a word of Arabic origin is used in Portuguese but not in Spanish, such as: Sp. \"romero\", Port. \"alecrim\" (Port. \"rosmaninho\" or \"rosmarinho\" means 'lavender'), 'rosemary'; Sp. \"lechuga\", Port. \"alface\" (in Port. \"leituga\" means 'catsear'), 'lettuce'; Port. \"alfaiate\", Sp. \"sastre\" 'tailor' or more commonly used in Portuguese than in Spanish although the word exists in both languages, such as: \"chafariz\" 'fountain' (Port.\"fonte\", Sp. \"fuente\") or \"garrafa\" 'bottle' (Port. \"botelha\", Sp. \"botella\").\nIn a few cases Spanish and Portuguese have both borrowed different Arabic-derived words for the same meaning, such as: Sp. \"alfombra\", Port. \"alcatifa\", 'carpet'; Sp. \"aduana\", Port. \"alfândega\", 'customs' ; the latter is derived from the name of a town in Portugal that once stood on the boundary between Christendom and Islam.\n\nArabic is the source of a few personal given names and numerous surnames and place names in Spain, including the following:\n\nAlmudena, Azucena, Carmen, Guadalupe, Mohamed, Soraya, Zulema, Abenamir, Abengoa, Avengoa, Abenójar, Alcalá, Almuzara, Acebrón, Aceituno, Aceitón, Aguera, Aguiló, Alamar, Alamino, Alanzor, Albarral, Albarrán, Albo, Albaicín, Alcantud, Alcazar, Alcudia, Alguacil, Allobar, Almaguer, Almandós, Almandoz, Almería, Almodóvar, Almoravit, Ambasil, Amor, Andujar, Aranda, Ayas, Aias, Benayas, Bardaxí, Benajara, Benameji, Benasar, Bennásar, Benavides, Bendala, Calatayud, Cervatos, Ceuta, Cid, Córdoba, Dris, Faulí, Gálvez, Godesteiz, Granada, Guadalupe, Gudiel, Hispán, Yllán, Illán, Illanes, Jaén, Madrid, Manzaneque, Mezquita, Mezquitas, Mudarra, Palacios, Palomoque, Pascual, Quirino, Toledo, Trujillo, Valls, Zanata, Zaratan, Zarate, Zaratin, Zegrí, Cegrí, Zorita.\n\nSpanish and Portuguese have acquired different words from various Amerindian, African and Asian languages, as in the following examples:\n\nUnlike the other Romance languages, modern Portuguese does not use the Roman planetary system for the days Monday through Friday. Instead, the weekdays are numerical, and derived from Ecclesiastical Latin. The word \"feira\" (from Latin ) refers to daily (Roman Catholic) religious celebrations; it is cognate with 'fair' or 'market', as well as with \"férias\" 'vacation' and \"feriado\" 'holiday'. In Spanish, the days of the week are all masculine; in Portuguese, the \"feira\" days are feminine, while \"sábado\" and \"domingo\" are masculine.\nThe form \"Terça-feira\" (< Lat. ) differs in its first component from the usual Portuguese word for 'third', \"terceira\" (< Lat. ).\n\nIn actual usage, the word \"feira\" is often dropped:\n\nBroadly speaking, the grammars of Portuguese and Spanish share many common features. Nevertheless, some differences between them can present hurdles to people acquainted with one and learning the other.\n\nSpanish has three forms for the singular definite article, \"el\", masculine, \"la\", feminine, and \"lo\", neuter. The last is used with adjectives to form abstract nouns employed in a generic sense, and also to intensify the meaning of adjectives. In Portuguese, there is only \"o\", masculine, and \"a\", feminine. Literary Spanish has also three corresponding third person pronouns, \"él\" 'he', \"ella\" 'she', and \"ello\" 'it' (referring to a broad concept, not a named object), while Portuguese has only \"ele\", masculine, and \"ela\", feminine. The Spanish neuters \"lo\" and \"ello\" have no plural forms.\n\nSome words are masculine in Spanish, but feminine in Portuguese, or vice versa. A common example are nouns ended in \"-aje\" in Spanish, which are masculine, and their Portuguese cognates ending in \"-agem\", which are feminine. For example, Spanish \"el viaje\" 'the journey' (masculine, like French \"le voyage\" and Italian \"il viaggio\") corresponds to the Portuguese feminine \"a viagem\". Similarly, \"el puente\" 'bridge', \"el dolor\" 'pain', or \"el árbol\" 'tree' are masculine nouns in Modern Spanish, whereas \"a ponte\", \"a dor\", and \"a árvore\" are feminine in Portuguese. On the other hand, the Spanish feminine \"la leche\" 'the milk' corresponds to Portuguese \"o leite\" (masculine, like French \"le lait\", Italian \"il latte\"). Likewise, \"nariz\" 'nose' is feminine in Spanish and masculine in Portuguese.\n\nSome Spanish words can be both masculine and feminine, with different meanings. Both meanings usually exist also in Portuguese, but with one and the same gender, so that they can't be differentiated unless further information is provided. For instance, the word \"orden\" 'order' can mean both 'harmonious arrangement' and 'directive', like its counterparts in English and Portuguese. But the Spanish word is masculine when used with the first meaning, and feminine with the second:\n\nIn Portuguese, the equivalent word \"ordem\" is always feminine:\n\nWithout additional context, it is impossible to tell which meaning was intended in Portuguese and English (though other words could be substituted; in English, one would likely use \"orderliness\" in the first case above rather than \"order\", which would, by itself, suggest the second case).\n\nIn many varieties of Portuguese, personal names are normally preceded by a definite article, a trait also found in Catalan. In Portuguese, this is a relatively recent development, which some Brazilian dialects have not adopted yet, most notably in some states of the Brazilian Northeast. In those dialects of Portuguese that do regularly use definite articles before proper nouns, the article may be omitted for extra formality, or to show distance in a literary narrative. Compare, for example, English \"Mary left\", Spanish \"María salió\", and Portuguese \"A Maria saiu\". Note, however, that in many Spanish dialects the definite article is used before personal names; thus, \"la María salió\" is commonly heard.\n\nPortuguese uses the definite article before the names of some cities and almost all countries except relatively new ones, such as \"Cingapura\"/\"Singapura\" ('Singapore'), and those related to Portugal (or with which Portugal has historical relationships, even though this is a rough rule) and the Portuguese-speaking countries, e.g., \"a Holanda\" but \"Portugal\"; \"o México\" but \"Angola\", \"a Suécia\", but \"Moçambique\". The major exception to the country rule is \"o Brasil\". \nIn Spanish, use of the definite article is optional with some countries: \"(la) China\", \"(el) Japón\", \"(la) India\", \"(la) Argentina\", \"(el) Ecuador\", \"(el) Perú\", \"(el) Uruguay\", \"(el) Paraguay\", \"(el) Brasil\", \"(los) Estados Unidos\", etc. The same is true with two continents: \"(la) Antártida\" and \"(el) África\"; with archipelagos and islands: \"(las) Filipinas\", \"(las) Canarias\", \"(las) Azores\", with some provinces, regions or territories: \"(el) Tíbet\", \"(la) Toscana\", \"(el) Piamonte\", \"(el) Lacio\" and with some cities: \"(el) Cairo\", \"(la) Valeta\". Spanish uses the definite article with all geographical names when they appear with an adjective or modifying phrase, as in the following examples: \"la España medieval\" 'medieval Spain', \"el Puerto Rico prehispánico\" 'pre-Hispanic Puerto Rico', \"el Portugal de Salazar\" 'Portugal during Salazar's dictatorship', etc.\n\nPortuguese omits the definite article in stating the time of day unless \"para as\" is used.\n\nIn addition, in most dialects of Portuguese the definite article is used before possessive adjectives (as it is used in Italian), which is not possible in Spanish. For instance, the sentence 'This is my brother' is \"Este es mi hermano\" in Spanish, but may be \"Este é o meu irmão\" in Portuguese. Nevertheless, in many Brazilian dialects (mostly in the Northeast) and in casual Brazilian Portuguese the article is not used in sentences such as: \"Este é meu irmão\" (although it usually reappears in sentences such as \"O meu irmão está lá\").\n\nIn Portuguese, possessive adjectives have the same form as possessive pronouns, and they all agree with the gender of the possessed item. In Spanish, the same is true of \"nuestro\"/\"nuestra\" (\"our\") and \"vuestro\"/\"vuestra\" (\"your\" [plural]), but for all other possessives, the pronoun has a longer form that agrees with the gender of the possessed item, while the adjective has a shorter form that does not change for gender. The possessive adjectives are normally preceded by a definite article in Continental Portuguese, less so in Brazilian Portuguese, and never in Spanish. The possessive pronouns are preceded by a definite article in all dialects of both languages. See examples in the table below.\n\nIn Portuguese, third-person clitic pronouns have special variants used after certain types of verb endings, which does not happen in Spanish. The default object pronouns \"o\"/\"a\"/\"os\"/\"as\" change to \"lo\"/\"la\"/\"los\"/\"las\" when they follow a verb that ends in ⟨r⟩, ⟨s⟩ or ⟨z⟩, and to \"no\"/\"na\"/\"nos\"/\"nas\" when they follow a verb that ends in a nasal sound.\n\nIn Brazilian Portuguese, these forms are uncommon, since the pronoun normally precedes the verb (i.e., \"você o mantenha\" in the above example), and third-person subject pronouns are used informally as object pronouns (\"mantenha ele\"), which has been proved to be present in the language since Galician-Portuguese times. However, as it has been considered ungrammatical to begin a sentence with an object pronoun, the above examples are, on rare occasion, used in Brazil as well.\n\nEuropean Portuguese differs from Brazilian Portuguese with regard to the placement of clitic personal pronouns, and Spanish is in turn different from both of them.\n\n\nIn Portuguese, verbs in the future indicative or conditional tense may be split into morphemes, and the clitic pronoun can be inserted between them, a feature known as mesoclisis. This also occurred in Old Spanish, but no comparable phenomenon takes place in modern Spanish:\n\nHowever, these tenses are often replaced with others in the spoken language. Future indicative is sometimes replaced by present indicative; conditional is very often replaced by imperfect indicative. In colloquial language, most Portuguese would state \"trá-lo-á\" as \"vai trazê-lo\" ('going to bring it') or \"irá trazê-lo\" ('will bring it'). In Brazilian Portuguese, \"vai trazer ele\" would be the vernacular use.\n\nThe Spanish construction, \"se lo dio\", means either '[He/She] gave it to [him/her]' or '[He/She] gave it to \"himself/herself. The expected pattern for the former would be *\"le\"' lo dio\", but such a construction does not exist. This is unique to Spanish.\n\n\nThus, modern Spanish makes no distinction between the reflexive pronoun \"se\" and the dative personal pronoun \"se\". Note that this did not happen in old Spanish: \"diógelo\", 'he gave it to him', \"dióselo\", 'he gave it to himself'. The medieval \"g\" sound (similar to that of French) was replaced with \"s\" in the 14th-15th centuries (cf. Spanish \"coger\", 'to catch', but \"cosecha\", 'harvest', Port. \"colher\" and \"colheita\", both from Lat. ).\n\nIn Spanish, stressed pronouns are never used for inanimate subjects (i.e., things, as opposed to people or animals), not even for clarity or disambiguation purposes. Portuguese knows no such restriction, so that stressed pronouns referring to inanimate subjects can either be used or dropped:\n\nThe use of second-person pronouns differs dramatically between Spanish and Portuguese, and even more so between European and Brazilian Portuguese. Spanish \"tú\" and \"usted\" correspond etymologically to Portuguese \"tu\" and \"você\", but Portuguese has gained a third, even more formal form \"o(s) senhor(es), a(s) senhora(s)\", demoting \"você\" to an \"equalizing\" rather than respectful register. The old familiar forms have been largely lost in the Portuguese-speaking world, as the Portuguese equalizing forms \"você\" or \"vocês\" have displaced \"tu\" to a large extent and \"vós\" almost entirely; and even where \"tu\" is still used, the second-person verb forms that historically corresponded to it are often replaced by the same (third-person) forms that are used with \"você\".\n\nIn the plural, Portuguese familiar \"vós\" is archaic nearly everywhere (as with the old English second singular \"thou\"), and both the subject pronoun and its corresponding second-person plural verb forms are generally limited to the Bible, traditional prayers, and spoken varieties of certain regions of rural Portugal; normally, the familiar (and equalizing) form is now \"vocês,\" although in Portugal the second person plural forms are retained for both object and possessive pronouns (e.g., \"vocês e a vossa família\"). In the case of Peninsular Spanish, \"tú\", \"usted\", \"vosotros\", and \"ustedes\" have more or less kept their original functions; if anything, \"tú\" is displacing \"usted\" out of common use and \"usted\" is coming to be used only for formal situations (like \"o senhor\" in Portuguese). Latin American Spanish is more complicated: \"vosotros\" has fallen out of use in favor of \"ustedes\", but certain regions of Spanish America also use \"vos\" as a \"singular\" informal pronoun, displacing \"tú\" out of its original role to a greater or lesser extent (see \"voseo\").\n\nSpoken Brazilian Portuguese has dramatically simplified the pronoun system, with \"você(s)\" tending to displace all other forms. Although a few parts of Brazil still use \"tu\" and the corresponding second-person singular verb forms, most areas either use \"tu\" with third-person verb forms or (increasingly) drop \"tu\" entirely in favor of \"você\". This has in turn caused the original third-person possessive \"seu, sua\" to shift to primarily second-person use, alongside the appearance of a new third-person possessive \"dele, dela\" (plural \"deles, delas\", \"their\") that follows the noun (thus paraphrases such as \"o carro dele\" \"his car\", \"o carro dela\" \"her car\"). The formal \"o senhor\" is also increasingly restricted to highly formal situations, such as that of a storekeeper addressing a customer, or a child or teenager addressing an adult stranger.\n\nMore conservative in this regard is the \"fluminense\" dialect of Brazilian Portuguese (spoken in Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo and in the Zona da Mata of the state of Minas Gerais) – especially its \"carioca\" sociolect. This dialect generally preserves intimate or familiar \"tu\", the standard equalizing form \"você\", and the respectful or formal \"o senhor\"/\"a senhora\", together with their related possessives, to such an extent that almost all speakers use these forms, according to context. Nevertheless, a minority of educated speakers correctly conjugates all of the \"tu\" pronouns formally; otherwise, it is mostly conjugated as \"você\".\n\nStandard Portuguese usage has \"vocês\" and \"os senhores/as senhoras\" as plurals of \"você\" and \"o senhor\"/\"a senhora\", but the vernacular has also produced new forms with the second-person familiar plural function, such as \"gente\" (compare \"a gente\" as a possible colloquial variation of \"nós\", \"we\"/\"us\", that should be conjugated—but commonly is not—as third-person singular), \"pessoas\", \"pessoal\", \"[meu] povo\", \"cês\" (eye dialect for \"vocês\" in colloquial pronunciation), and \"galera\" (the latter mainly associated with youth slang).\n\nIt is often said that the \"gaúcho\", \"nordestino\" and \"amazofonia\" dialects, as well as some sociolects elsewhere, such as that in and around the city of Santos, have preserved \"tu\"; but unlike in \"fluminense\", the use of \"você\" is very limited, and entirely absent among some speakers, and \"tu\" takes its place. In these areas, the verb with \"tu\" is conjugated in the third-person form (as with \"você\") – except among educated speakers in some urban centers such as Porto Alegre and, especially, Belém. See Brazilian Portuguese.\n\nSpanish and Portuguese have two main copulas, \"ser\" and \"estar\". For the most part, the use of these verbs is the same in both languages, but there are a few cases where it differs. The main difference between Spanish and Portuguese is in the interpretation of the concept of state versus essence and in the generalizations one way or another that are made in certain constructions. For instance,\n\nAlso, the use of \"ser\" regarding a permanent location is much more accepted in Portuguese. Conversely, \"estar\" is often permanent in Spanish regarding a location, while in Portuguese, it implies being temporary or something within the immediate vicinity (same house, building, etc.)\n\nBecause the airport is obviously not anywhere nearby, \"ficar\" is used in Portuguese (most common), though \"ser\" can also be used.\n\nSecondary copulas are \"quedar(se)\" in Spanish and \"ficar\" in Portuguese. Each can also mean 'to stay' or 'to remain.'\n\nThe Spanish sentence using the reflexive form of the verb (\"quedarse\") implies that staying inside the house was voluntary, while Portuguese and English are quite ambiguous on this matter without any additional context. (See also the next section.)\n\nBoth Spanish \"quedar(se)\" and Portuguese \"ficar\" can mean 'become':\n\nReflexive verbs are somewhat more frequent in Spanish than in Portuguese, especially with actions relating to parts of the body:\n\nThe Portuguese and Spanish verbs for expressing \"liking\" are similar in form (\"gostar\" and \"gustar\" respectively) but different in their arrangement of arguments. Arguments in linguistics are expressions that enable a verb to complete its meaning. Expressions of liking typically require two arguments: (1) a person who likes something (sometimes called the \"experiencer\"), and (2) something that the person likes (sometimes called the \"theme\"). Portuguese and Spanish (as well as English) assign different grammatical cases to these arguments, as shown in the following table:\nThe Portuguese sentence can be translated literally as \"[I] [take satisfaction] [from] [the music]\", while the Spanish corresponds to \"[To me] [(it) is pleasing] [the music].\"\n\nIt is also possible in Spanish to express it as: \"(Yo) gusto de la música\", although this use has become antiquated.\n\nIn Spanish, the compound perfect is constructed with the auxiliary verb \"haber\" (< Latin ). Although Portuguese used to use its cognate verb (\"haver\") in this way, now it is more common to form these tenses with \"ter\" ('to have') (< Latin ). While \"ter\" is occasionally used as an auxiliary by other Iberian languages, it is much more pervasive in Portuguese. Note that most Portuguese verb tables only contain \"ter\" with regard to the perfect.\n\nA class of false friends between the two languages is composed of the verb forms with endings containing -\"ra\"-, such as \"cantara\", \"cantaras\", \"cantáramos\", and so on. Spanish has two forms for the imperfect subjunctive, one with endings in \"-se-\" and another with endings in -\"ra\"- (e.g., \"cantase\"/\"cantara\" 'were I to sing'), which are usually interchangeable. In Portuguese, only \"cantasse\" has this value; \"cantara\" is employed as a pluperfect indicative, i.e., the equivalent to Spanish \"había cantado\" ('I had sung'). Although there is a strong tendency to use a verb phrase instead in the spoken language, like in Spanish and English (\"tinha cantado\"), the simple tense is still frequent in literature.\n\nIn European Spanish, as in English, the present perfect is normally used to talk about an action initiated and completed in the past, which is still considered relevant or influential in the present moment. In Portuguese and Latin American Spanish, the same meaning is conveyed by the simple preterite, as in the examples below:\n\nPortuguese normally uses the present perfect (\"pretérito perfeito composto\") for speaking of an event that began in the past, was repeated regularly up to the present, and could keep happening in the future. See the contrast with Spanish in the following example:\n\nAs this example suggests, the Portuguese present perfect is often closer in meaning to the English present perfect \"continuous\". See also Spanish verbs: Contrasting the preterite and the perfect.\n\nPortuguese, uniquely among the major Romance languages, has acquired a \"personal infinitive\", which can be used as an alternative to a subordinate clause with a finite verb in the subjunctive. \n\nThe Portuguese perfect form of the personal infinitive corresponds to one of several possible Spanish finite verbs.\n\nOn some occasions, the personal infinitive can hardly be replaced by a finite clause and corresponds to a different structure in Spanish (and English):\n\nThe personal infinitive is \"not\" used in counterfactual situations, as these require either the future subjunctive or the imperfect subjunctive. 'If we were/had been rich...' is \"Se fôssemos ricos...\", not \"*Se sermos ricos...\" Also, it is conjugated the same as the future subjunctive (see next section), provided the latter is not irregular (\"ser\", \"estar\", \"ter\", etc.) The personal infinitive is \"never\" irregular, though the circumflex accent may be dropped in writing on expanded forms (such as \"pôr\").\n\nIn the first and third person singular, the personal infinitive appears no different from the unconjugated infinitive.\n\nThe above rules also apply whenever the subjects of the two clauses are the same, but independent of each other.\n\nAs shown, the personal infinitive can be used at times to replace both the impersonal infinitive and the subjunctive. Spanish has no such alternative.\n\nThe future subjunctive, now virtually obsolete in Spanish, continues in use in both written and spoken Portuguese. It is used in subordinate clauses referring to a hypothetical future event or state – either adverbial clauses (usually introduced by \"se\" 'if ' or \"quando\" 'when') or adjective clauses that modify nouns referring to a hypothetical future entity. Spanish, in the analogous if-clauses, uses the present indicative, and in the \"cuando-\" and adjective clauses uses the present subjunctive.\n\nA number of irregular verbs in Portuguese change the main vowel to indicate differences between first and third person singular: \"fiz\" 'I did' vs \"fez\" 'he did', \"pude\" 'I could' vs \"pôde\" 'he could', \"fui\" 'I was' vs \"foi\" 'he was', \"tive\" 'I had' vs \"teve\" 'he had', etc. These vowel differences stem from vowel raising (metaphony) triggered historically by the final of the first-person singular in Latin. Spanish maintains such a difference only in \"fui\" 'I was' vs \"fue\" 'he was'. In all other cases, one of the two vowels has been regularized throughout the conjugation and a new third-person ending \"-o\" adopted: \"hice\" 'I did' vs \"hizo\" 'he did', \"pude\" 'I could' vs \"pudo\" 'he could', etc.\n\nContrarily, Spanish maintains many more irregular forms in the future and conditional: \"saldré\" 'I will leave', \"pondré\" 'I will put', \"vendré\" 'I will come', \"diré\" 'I will say', etc. Portuguese has only three: \"farei\" 'I will do', \"direi\" 'I will say', \"trarei\" 'I will carry'.\n\nPortuguese drops -\"e\" in \"irregular\" third-person singular present indicative forms after ⟨z⟩ and ⟨r⟩, according to phonological rules: \"faz\" 'he does', \"diz\" 'he says', \"quer\" 'he wants', etc. Spanish has restored -\"e\" by analogy with other verbs: \"hace\" 'he does', \"dice\" 'he says', \"quiere\" 'he wants', etc. (The same type of analogy accounts for \"fiz\" vs \"hice\" 'I did' in the past tense. In nouns such as \"paz\" 'peace', \"luz\" 'light', \"amor\" 'love', etc. \"-e\" was dropped in both languages and never restored).\n\nIn Spanish the prepositions \"a\" ('to') and \"de\" ('of, from') form contractions with a following masculine singular definite article (\"el\" 'the'): \"a\" + \"el\" > \"al\", and \"de\" + \"el\" > \"del\". This kind of contraction is much more extensive in Portuguese, involving the prepositions \"a\" ('to'), \"de\" ('of, from'), \"em\" ('in'), and \"por\" ('for') with articles and demonstratives regardless of number or gender. All four of these prepositions join with the definite article, as shown in the following table:\n<br>\nAdditionally, the prepositions \"de\" and \"em\" combine with the demonstrative adjectives and pronouns as shown below:\nThe neuter demonstrative pronouns (\"isto\" 'this' \"isso\", \"aquilo\" 'that') likewise combine with \"de\" and \"em\" – thus, \"disto\", \"nisto\", etc. And the preposition \"a\" combines with the \"distal\" demonstratives (those that begin with \"a-\") to form \"àquele\", \"àquilo\", etc.\n\nThe Portuguese contractions mentioned thus far are obligatory. Contractions can also be optionally formed from \"em\" and \"de\" with the indefinite article (\"um\", \"uma\", \"uns\", \"umas\"), resulting in \"num\", \"numa\", \"dum\", \"duma\", etc. and from the third person pronouns (\"ele\", \"ela\", \"eles\", \"elas\"), resulting in \"nele\", \"nela\", \"dele\", \"dela\", etc. Other optional contractions include \"de\" with \"aqui\" > \"daqui\" ('from here').\n\nThe Spanish \"con\" ('with', \"com\" in Portuguese) combines with the prepositional pronouns \"mí\", \"ti\", and \"sí\" to form \"conmigo\", \"contigo\", \"consigo\" ('with me', 'with you', 'with him-/herself '). In Portuguese this process not only applies to the pronouns \"mim\", \"ti\", and \"si\" (giving \"comigo\", \"contigo\", and \"consigo\"), but also is extended to \"nós\" and, in those varieties which use it, \"vós\", producing \"connosco\" (\"conosco\" in Brazilian Portuguese) and \"convosco\".\n\nSpanish employs a preposition, the so-called \"personal \"a\"\", before the direct object of a transitive verb (except \"tener\") when it denotes a specific person(s), or domestic pet; thus \"Veo a Juan\" 'I see John'; \"Hemos invitado a los estudiantes\" 'We've invited the students.'\nIn Portuguese, personal \"a\" is virtually non-existent, except before \"Deus\" 'God': \"louvar a Deus\" 'to praise God', \"amar a Deus\" 'to love God'.\n\nQuite common in both languages are the prepositions \"a\" (which often translates as \"to\") and \"para\" (which often translates as \"for\"). However, European Portuguese and Spanish distinguish between going somewhere for a short while versus a longer stay, especially if it is an intended destination, in the latter case using \"para\" instead of \"a\". While there is no specified duration of stay before a European Portuguese speaker must switch prepositions, \"a\" implies one will return sooner, rather than later, relative to the context. This distinction is not made in English and Brazilian Portuguese. In Spanish the distinction is not made if the duration is given in the context (maybe implicitly), and in this case \"a\" is generally preferred.\n\nNote, though, in the first example, \"para\" could be used in Portuguese if in contrast to a very brief period of time.\n\nIn informal, non-standard Brazilian Portuguese, \"em\" (in its original form or combined with a given article in a contraction, yielding \"no\", \"na\", \"numa\", etc.), often replaces the preposition \"a\" from standard Portuguese.\n\nSuch a construction is not used in Spanish or in European Portuguese.\n\nIn Portuguese the preposition até can also be used when the duration of the stay is expected to be short or when there is a specific reason for going somewhere. In Spanish hasta has the same meaning and function.\n\nSpanish has two prepositions of direction: \"para\" ('for', including 'headed for [a destination]') and \"hacia\" ('toward [not necessarily implying arrival]'). Of them, only \"para\" exists in Portuguese, covering both meanings.\n\nColloquially, \"para\" is often reduced in both languages: to \"pa\"' in Spanish, and to \"pra\" (sometimes written \"p'ra\" and this form may be used in literature) or \"pa\" (only in slang in Portugal and Rio de Janeiro, and not permitted in writing) in Portuguese. Portuguese \"pra\", in turn, may join with the definite article: \"pra\" + \"o\" > \"pro\" (BP) or \"prò\" (EP), \"pra\" + \"a\" > \"pra\" (BP) or \"prà\" (EP), etc. In reference to the slang option \"pa\", these become: \"pa\" + \"o\" > \"pò\", \"pa\" + \"a\" > \"pà\", etc.\n\nBoth languages have a construction similar to the English \"going-to\" future. Spanish includes the preposition \"a\" between the conjugated form of \"ir\" \"to go\" and the infinitive: \"Vamos a cantar\" \"We're going to sing\" or \"Let's sing\" (present tense of \"ir\" + \"a\" + infinitive). Usually, in Portuguese, there is no preposition between the helping verb and the main verb: \"Vamos cantar\" (present tense of \"ir\" + infinitive). This also applies when the verb is in other tenses:\n\nWhile as a rule the same prepositions are used in the same contexts in both languages, there are many exceptions.\n\nThe traditional Spanish alphabet had 28 letters, while the Portuguese had 23. Modern versions of recent years added \"k\" and \"w\" (found only in foreign words) to both languages. Portuguese also added \"y\" for loanwords.\n\nWith the reform in 1994 by the 10th congress of the Association of Spanish Language Academies, Spanish alphabetization now follows the same pattern as that of other major West European languages. Prior to this date, however, the digraphs \"ch\" and \"ll\" were independently alphabetized. For example, the following surnames would be put in this order: \"Cervantes, Contreras, Cruz, Chávez, Dávila\". Many Spanish dictionaries and other reference material still exist using the pre-reform rule of alphabetization.\n\n⟨Sc⟩ in Latin American Spanish is not called a digraph, however it is a single sound as in Brazilian Portuguese. Also Spanish has taken ⟨sh⟩ from English as a loan sound; e.g., \"sherpa\", \"show\", \"flash\". Brazilian Portuguese uses the trigraph ⟨tch⟩ for loanwords; e.g., \"tchau\", 'ciao', \"tcheco\" 'Czech', \"República Tcheca\" 'Czech Republic', \"tchê\" 'che' (this latter is regional), etc. European Portuguese normally replace the trigraph ⟨tch⟩ with ⟨ch⟩ : \"chau\", \"checo\", \"República Checa\", etc.\n\nBoth Spanish and Portuguese use ⟨zz⟩ (never as – this sequence appears only in loanwords from Japanese, e.g., \"adzuki\") for some Italian loanwords, but in Portuguese may sometimes not be pronounced as affricate, but having an epenthetic or ; e.g., Sp. and Port. \"pizza\" 'pizza', Sp. and Port. \"paparazzo\" 'paparazzo', etc. Spanish also utilizes ⟨tz⟩ for Basque, Catalan and Nahuatl loanwords, and ⟨tl⟩ (or ) for Nahuatl loanwords; e.g., \"Ertzaintza\", \"quetzal\", \"xoloitzcuintle\", \"Tlaxcala\", etc. Portuguese utilizes ⟨ts⟩ for German, originarily ⟨z⟩, and Japanese loanwords.\n\nOnly in Spanish do interrogatives and exclamations use the question mark or exclamation point respectively at the beginning of a sentence. The same punctuation marks are used, but these are inverted. This prepares the reader in advance for either a question or exclamation type of sentence.\n\nOn the other hand, in Portuguese, a person reading aloud lengthy sentences from an unfamiliar text may have to scan ahead to check if what at first appears to be a statement, is actually a question. Otherwise, it would be too late to enable proper voice inflection. Neither language has the equivalent of the auxiliary verb \"to do\", which is often used to begin a question in English. Both Spanish and English can place the verb before the subject noun to indicate a question, though this is uncommon in Portuguese, and almost unheard of in Brazil. In fact, most yes/no questions in Portuguese are written the same as a statement except for the final question mark.\n\nAside from changes of punctuation in written language, in speech, converting any of the above examples from a question to a statement would involve changes of both intonation and syntax in English and Spanish, but intonation only in Portuguese.\n\nThe palatal consonants are spelled differently in the two languages.\n\nThe symbols ⟨ll⟩ and ⟨ñ⟩ are etymological in Spanish, as the sounds they represent are often derived from Latin and (for those positions, Portuguese has simple ⟨l⟩ and ⟨n⟩; cf. \"rodilla\"/\"rodela\", \"peña\"/\"pena\"). The Portuguese digraphs ⟨lh⟩ and ⟨nh⟩ were adopted from Occitan, as poetry of the troubadours was the most important influence on Portuguese literature up until the 14th century. King Denis of Portugal, who established Portuguese instead of Latin as the official language, was an admirer of the poetry of the troubadours and a poet himself. Examples include names such as Port. \"\"Minho\"\" (Sp. \"Miño\") and \"\"Magalhães\"\" (Sp. \"Magallanes\").\n\nThe letter ⟨y⟩ was used in Portuguese from the 16th to the early 20th century in Greek loans, much as in English (e.g., \"Psychologia\", modern \"Psicologia\" 'Psychology'). The orthographic reform in 1911 officially replaced it with ⟨i⟩. The corresponding sound can be regarded as an allophone of the vowel in both languages. Compare Sp. \"rey ('king'), \"mayor\" ('larger, greater, elder') with Port. \"rei ('king'), \"maior\" ('larger, greater').\n\nThe exact pronunciation of these three consonants varies somewhat with dialect. The table indicates only the most common sound values in each language. In most Spanish dialects, the consonants written ⟨ll⟩ and ⟨y⟩ have come to be pronounced the same way, a sound merger known as \"yeísmo\". A similar phenomenon can be found in some dialects of Brazilian Portuguese (e.g., “\"muié\"” for \"mulher\", 'woman'), but it is much less widespread than in Spanish.\n\nThe Portuguese letter ⟨ç⟩ (c-cedilha), based on a Visigothic form of the letter ⟨z⟩: \"ꝣ\". In Portuguese it is used before ⟨a⟩, ⟨o⟩, and ⟨u⟩ (including nasals), and never at the beginning or end of any word. It always represents the \"soft \"c\"\" sound, namely . In modern Spanish, it has been replaced by ⟨z⟩. Example: \"calzado\" (Sp.), \"calçado\" (Port.) 'footwear'.\n\nVarious word endings are consistently different in the two languages.\n\n\n\nBoth languages use diacritics to mark the stressed syllable of a word whenever it is not otherwise predictable from spelling. Since Spanish does not differentiate between mid-open and mid-close vowels and nasal vowels, it uses only one accent, the acute. Portuguese usually uses the acute accent ( ´ ), but also uses the circumflex accent ( ˆ ) on the mid-close vowels ⟨ê⟩ and ⟨ô⟩ and the stressed (always nasal in Brasil) ⟨â⟩.\n\nAlthough the Spanish ⟨y⟩ can be either a consonant or a vowel, as a vowel it never takes an accent. At the end of a word, the Portuguese diphthong -\"ai\" is the equivalent of the Spanish -\"ay\", however, -\"ai\" can have an accent on the ⟨í⟩ to break the diphthong into two separate vowels, e.g., \"açaí\" (three syllables). Without the accent, as in Spanish, the last syllable would be a diphthong: \"Paraguai\" (Portuguese) and \"Paraguay\" (Spanish) 'Paraguay'.\n\nPortuguese nasal vowels occur before ⟨n⟩ and ⟨m⟩ (see phonology below) without an accent mark, as these consonants are not fully pronounced in such cases. The tilde (~), is only used on nasal diphthongs such as ⟨ão⟩ and ⟨õe⟩ , plus the final ⟨ã⟩ , which replaces the -\"am\" ending, as the latter is reserved for verbs, e.g., \"amanhã\" 'tomorrow'.\n\nThese do not alter the rules for stress, though note endings -\"im\", -\"ins\" and -\"um\", -\"uns\" are stressed, as are their non-nasal counterparts (see below). A couple of two-letter words consist of only the nasal vowel: \"em\" and \"um\".\n\nPhonetic vowel nasalization occurs in Spanish—vowels may get slightly nasalized in contact with nasal consonants—but it is not phonemically distinctive. In Portuguese, on the other hand, vowel nasalization is distinctive, and therefore phonemic: \"pois\" or 'because' vs \"pões\" or '(you) put'.\n\nPortuguese changes vowel sounds with (and without) accents marks. Unaccented ⟨o⟩ () and ⟨e⟩ (), acute accented ⟨ó⟩ () and ⟨é⟩ (), or circumflex accented ⟨ô⟩ () and ⟨e⟩ (). Thus, \"nós\" or 'we' vs \"nos\" or 'us', \"avô\" 'grandfather' vs \"avó\" 'grandmother', \"se\" or 'itself, himself, herself' reflexive pronoun vs \"sé\" 'seat, headquarters' vs \"sê\" 'to be' 2nd person imperative. Spanish pronunciation makes no such distinction.\n\nThe grave accent ( ` ) is also used in Portuguese to indicate the contraction of the preposition \"a\" (to) with a few words beginning with the vowel \"a\", but not to indicate stress. In other cases, it is the combination of the preposition and the feminine definite article; in other words, the equivalent of \"a la\" ('to the') in Spanish. \"Às\" is used for the plural (\"a las\" in Spanish).\n\n\nThe diaeresis or trema ( ¨ ) is used in Spanish to indicate ⟨u⟩ is pronounced in the sequence ⟨gu⟩; e.g., \"desagüe\" . As the Portuguese grave accent, the trema does not indicate stress. In Brazilian Portuguese it was also used for the digraphs ⟨gu⟩ and ⟨qu⟩ for the same purpose as Spanish (e.g., former BP spelling *\"qüinqüênio\" , EP \"quinquénio\" 'five-year period'), however since the implementation of the Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement in Brazil, the trema was abolished (current BP spelling \"quinquênio\" ), and its usage was restricted to some loanwords (e.g., \"mülleriano\" 'Müllerian').\n\nThe accentuation rules (including those of predictable stress) of Portuguese and Spanish are similar, but not identical. Discrepancies are especially pervasive in words that contain \"i\" or \"u\" in their last syllable. Note the Portuguese diphthongs \"ei\" and \"ou\" are the approximate Spanish equivalent of \"e\" and \"o\" respectively, but any word ending with these diphthongs is, by default, stressed on its final syllable.\n\nCompare the following pairs of cognates, where the stress falls on the same syllable in both languages:\n\nSemivowel–vowel sequences are treated differently in both languages when it comes to accentuation rules. A sequence of a semivowel adjacent to a vowel is by default assumed to be read as a diphthong (part of the same syllable) in Spanish, whereas it is by default assumed to be read as a hiatus (belonging to different syllables) in Portuguese. For both languages, accentuation rules consistently indicate something other than the default.\n\nA consequence of this is that words that are pronounced alike in both languages are written according to different accentuation rules. Some examples:\n\n\nAnother consequence (though less common) is that some words are written exactly (or almost exactly) the same in both languages, but the stress falls on different syllables:\n\n\nAlthough the vocabularies of Spanish and Portuguese are similar, the two languages differ phonologically from each other, very likely because of the stronger Celtic substratum in Portuguese. Phonetically Portuguese bears similarities to French and to Catalan while the phonetics of Spanish are more comparable to those of Sardinian and Sicilian. Portuguese has a significantly larger phonemic inventory than Spanish. This may partially explain why it is generally not very intelligible to Spanish speakers despite the lexical similarity between the two languages.\n\nOne of the main differences between the Spanish and Portuguese pronunciation are the vowel sounds. Standard Spanish has a basic vowel phonological system, with five phonemic vowels (). Phonetic nasalization occurs in Spanish for vowels occurring between nasal consonants or when preceding a syllable-final nasal consonant ( and ), but it is not distinctive as in Portuguese. Dialectally, there are Spanish dialects with a greater number of vowels, with some (as Murcian and Eastern Andalusian) reaching up to 8 to 10 vowel sounds. On the other hand, Portuguese has seven to nine oral vowels () ( is closer to in Portugal, while the near-close near-back unrounded vowel —also rendered as or —is only found in European Portuguese) plus five phonemic nasal vowels () when preceding an omitted syllable-final nasal ( and ) or when is marked with a tilde (~): ⟨ã⟩ and ⟨õ⟩. This appears to be, similarly to French, a Celtic phonological adaptation to Latin. Portuguese, as Catalan, uses vowel height, contrasting stressed and unstressed (reduced) vowels. Moreover, Spanish has two semivowels as allophones, ; while Portuguese has four, two oral and two nasalized glides (non-syllabic near-close vowels, as those of most English speech, are allophones of the glides in the Brazilian dialects where near-closeds are used).\n\nThe following considerations are based on a comparison of standard versions of Spanish and Portuguese. Apparent divergence of the information below from anyone's personal pronunciation may indicate one's idiolect (or dialect) diverges from the mentioned standards. Information on Portuguese phonology is adapted from Celso Pedro Luft (, 1971), and information on Spanish phonology adapted from Manuel Seco (, 1994).\n\nComparing the phonemic inventory of the two languages, a noticeable divergence stands out. First, standard Portuguese has more phonemes than Spanish. Also, each language has phonemes that are not shared by the other.\n\nSpanish and Portuguese have been diverging for over a thousand years. One of the most noticeable early differences between them concerned the result of the stressed vowels of Latin:\n\nAs vowel length ceased to be distinctive in the transition from Latin to Romance, the stressed vowels and became \"ie\" and \"ue\" in Spanish whenever they were short (Latin → Spanish \"piedra\" 'stone'; Latin → Spanish \"muere\" \"he dies\"). Similar diphthongizations can be found in other Romance languages (French \"pierre\", Italian \"pietra\", Romanian \"piatră\"; French \"meurt\", Italian \"muore\", Romanian \"moare\"), but in Galician-Portuguese these vowels underwent a qualitative change instead (Portuguese/Galician \"pedra\", \"morre\"), becoming lower, as also happened with short and short in stressed syllables. The Classical Latin vowels - and - were correspondingly lowered in Spanish and turned into diphthongs and . In Spanish, short and and long and merged into mid vowels, and , while in Portuguese these vowels stayed as close-mid, and and open-mid, and , as in Vulgar Latin.\n\nPortuguese has five phonemic nasal vowels (), which, according to historical linguistics, arose from the assimilation of the nasal consonants and , often at the end of syllables. Syllable-final \"m\" and \"n\" are still written down to indicate nasalization, even though they are no longer fully pronounced, that is, either (before obstruents) or elided completely. In other cases, nasal vowels are marked with a tilde (\"ã\", \"õ\"). Not all words containing \"vowel + n\" have the nasal sound, as the subsequent letter must be a consonant for this to occur: e.g., \"anel\" ('ring') –oral/non-nasal– vs \"anca\" ('hip') –nasal–.\n\nHowever, in some Brazilian dialects, most vowels (including the allophones present only in unstressed environment) have nasal allophones before one of the nasal consonants , followed by another vowel. In other Brazilian dialects, only stressed vowels can be nasalized this way. In European Portuguese, nasalization is absent in this environment.\n\nThe Portuguese digraph \"ou\" (pronounced usually as the diphthong , but sometimes as a monophthong ) corresponds to the final \"-ó\" of Spanish \"-ar\" verbs in the preterite tense; e.g., Spanish \"descansó\" and Portuguese \"descansou\" (\"he/she rested\"). The Spanish irregular verb forms in \"-oy\" (e.g., \"doy\" \"I give\", \"estoy\" \"I am\", \"soy\" \"I am\", \"voy\" \"I go\") correspond to Portuguese forms in \"-ou\" (e.g., \"dou\", \"estou\", \"sou\", \"vou\"). But in some other words, conversely, Spanish \"o\" corresponds to Portuguese \"oi\", e.g., Spanish \"cosa\", Portuguese \"coisa\" \"thing\"; Spanish \"oro\" \"gold\", Portuguese usually \"ouro\", but sometimes \"oiro\".\n\nStressed vowel alternations may occur in Portuguese, but not in Spanish:\n\nThe history of the unstressed vowels in Spanish and Portuguese is not as well known as that of the stressed vowels, but some points are generally agreed upon. Spanish has the five short vowels of classical Latin, . It has also two semivowels, and , that appear in diphthongs, but these can be considered allophones of and , respectively. The pronunciation of the unstressed vowels does not differ much from that of stressed vowels. Unstressed, non-syllabic , and can be reduced to , and complete elision in some dialects; e.g., \"poetisa\" ('poet' f.), \"línea\" ('line'), \"ahorita\" ('now').\n\nThe system of seven oral vowels of Vulgar Latin has been fairly well preserved in Portuguese, as in the closely related Galician language. In Portuguese, unstressed vowels have been more unstable, both diachronically (across time) and synchronically (between dialects), producing new vowel sounds. The vowels written ⟨a⟩, ⟨e⟩ and ⟨o⟩ are pronounced in different ways according to several factors, most notably whether they are stressed, and whether they occur in the last syllable of a word. The basic paradigm is shown in the following table (it has some exceptions).\n\nBrazilian unstressed vowel allophones vary according to the geographical region of the country. Near-close , and unstressed close-mid , are found in southern and western accents, where postvocalic has a \"soft\" allophone (a flap, a coronal approximant, or a rhotic vowel), and postvocalic sibilants (written ⟨s⟩, ⟨x⟩, and ⟨z⟩) in native words are \"always\" alveolar . Meanwhile, these close allophones do not occur in the northern and eastern accents, where postvocalic has a \"hard\" allophone (velar, uvular, or glottal) and postvocalic sibilants \"may be\", consistently or not, post-alveolar . In the accents where postvocalic sibilants are \"always\" post-alveolar, such as those of Florianópolis and Rio de Janeiro, or in the accents influenced by them, \"any\" unstressed , and may be raised (like in Portugal), to , and , respectively. While this is true of all colloquial BP, it is especially characteristic of the latter dialects). This increased vowel reduction is also present in accents of the Brazilian Northeast, particularly from Alagoas to Piauí.\n\nSimilar alternation patterns to these exist in other Romance languages such as Catalan and Occitan. Although it is mostly an allophonic variation, some dialects have developed minimal pairs that distinguish the stressed variants from the unstressed ones. The vowel is often elided in connected speech (it is not present in Brazilian Portuguese).\n\nSome Brazilian dialects diphthongize stressed vowels to , etc. (except ), before a sibilant at the end of a syllable (written ⟨s⟩, ⟨x⟩, ⟨z⟩, or rarely, ⟨sh⟩). For instance, \"Jesus\" 'Jesus', \"faz\" 'he does', \"dez\" 'ten'. This has led to the use of \"meia\" (meaning \"meia dúzia\", 'half a dozen') for \"seis\" 'six' when making enumerations, to avoid any confusion with\" três\" 'three' on the telephone. In Lisbon and surrounding areas, stressed is pronounced or when it comes before an alveolo-palatal or palato-alveolar consonants followed by another vowel.\n\nThe orthography of Portuguese, which is partly etymological and analogical, does not indicate these sound changes. This makes the written language look deceptively similar to Spanish. For example, although \"breve\" ('brief') is spelled the same in both languages, it is pronounced in Spanish, but in Portuguese. In Brazilian Portuguese, in the vast majority of cases, the only difference between final -\"e\" and -\"i\" is the stress, as both are pronounced as . The former is unstressed, and the latter is stressed without any diacritical mark. In European Portuguese, final \"-e\" is not pronounced or is pronounced as , unlike \"i\", which is consistently .\n\nSome of the most characteristic sound changes undergone by the consonants from Latin to Spanish and Portuguese are shown in the table below.\n\nPeculiar to early Spanish (as in the Gascon dialect of Occitan, possibly due to a Basque substratum) was the loss of Latin initial - whenever it was followed by a vowel that did not diphthongize. Thus, Spanish \"hijo\" and \"hablar\" correspond to Portuguese \"filho\" and \"falar\" (from Latin and , 'son' and 'to speak' respectively). Nevertheless, Portuguese \"fogo\" corresponds to Spanish \"fuego\" (from Latin 'fire').\n\nAnother typical difference concerned the result of Latin -- and -- in intervocalic position:\n\n\nOther consonant clusters of Latin also took markedly different routes in the two languages in their archaic period:\n\nLearned words such as \"pleno, ocular, no(c)turno, tremular\", and so on, were not included in the examples above, since they were adapted directly from Classical Latin in later times.\n\nThe tables above represent only general trends with many exceptions, due to:\n\nPortuguese has tended to eliminate hiatuses that were preserved in Spanish, merging similar consecutive vowels into one (often after the above-mentioned loss of intervocalic -- and --). This results in many Portuguese words being one syllable shorter than their Spanish cognates:\n\nIn other cases, Portuguese reduces consecutive vowels to a diphthong, again resulting in one syllable fewer:\n\nThere are nevertheless a few words where the opposite happened, such as Spanish \"comprender\" versus Portuguese \"compreender\", from Latin .\n\nSince the late Middle Ages, both languages have gone through sound shifts and mergers that set them further apart.\n\nThe most marked phonetic divergence between Spanish and Portuguese in their modern period concerned the evolution of the sibilants. In the Middle Ages, both had a rich system of seven sibilants – paired according to affrication and voicing: , , , , , , and (the latter probably in free variation with , as still happens today in Ladino) – and spelled virtually the same in Spanish and Portuguese.\n<br>\nAfter the Renaissance, the two languages reduced their inventory of sibilants, but in different ways:\n\n\nSince no distinction is made anymore between the pronunciation of ⟨b⟩ and ⟨v⟩, Spanish spelling has been reformed according to Classical Latin. In Portuguese, the spelling of these letters is based on pronunciation, which is closer to Latin and modern Italian. This leads to some orthographic disparities:\n\n\nIn Spanish, the plosives \"b\", \"d\", \"g\" are lenited, usually realized as \"soft\" approximants (here represented without the undertracks) after continuants. While similar pronunciations can be heard in European Portuguese, most speakers of Brazilian Portuguese pronounce these phonemes consistently as \"hard\" plosives . This can make a Portuguese phrase such as \"uma bala\" (\"a bullet\") sound like \"una pala\" (\"a shovel\") to a Spanish-speaker.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3210078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210078", "title": "Conversations-Lexikon mit vorzüglicher Rücksicht auf die gegenwärtigen Zeiten", "text": "Conversations-Lexikon mit vorzüglicher Rücksicht auf die gegenwärtigen Zeiten\n\nThe Conversations-Lexikon mit vorzüglicher Rücksicht auf die gegenwärtigen Zeiten (), was a German language encyclopedia published in Leipzig, Germany between 1796 and 1808.\n\nThe encyclopedia was published in 8 volumes and 2,762 pages. It was edited by Dr Renatus Gotthelf Löbel, who intended to supersede Johann Hübner by including geography, history, biography, mythology, philosophy, natural history, and other topics. Volumes i-iv (A to R) appeared between 1796 and 1800, with vol. v appearing in 1806. This work was acquired and completed by Friedrich Arnold Brockhaus in 1808 and formed the basis of the many editions of the \"Brockhaus Encyclopedia\", which continued publication until 1 February 2014.\n"}
{"id": "5278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5278", "title": "Copyright", "text": "Copyright\n\nCopyright is a legal right, existing in many countries, that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights to determine whether, and under what conditions, this original work may be used by others. This is usually only for a limited time. The exclusive rights are not absolute but limited by limitations and exceptions to copyright law, including fair use. A major limitation on copyright on ideas is that copyright protects only the original expression of ideas, and not the underlying ideas themselves. \n\nCopyright is applicable to certain forms of creative work. Some, but not all jurisdictions require \"fixing\" copyrighted works in a tangible form. It is often shared among multiple authors, each of whom holds a set of rights to use or license the work, and who are commonly referred to as rights holders. These rights frequently include reproduction, control over derivative works, distribution, public performance, and moral rights such as attribution.\n\nCopyrights can be granted by public law and are in that case considered \"territorial rights\". This means that copyrights granted by the law of a certain state, do not extend beyond the territory of that specific jurisdiction. Copyrights of this type vary by country; many countries, and sometimes a large group of countries, have made agreements with other countries on procedures applicable when works \"cross\" national borders or national rights are inconsistent.\n\nTypically, the public law duration of a copyright expires 50 to 100 years after the creator dies, depending on the jurisdiction. Some countries require certain copyright formalities to establishing copyright, others recognize copyright in any completed work, without formal registration. Generally, copyright is enforced as a civil matter, though some jurisdictions do apply criminal sanctions.\n\nMost jurisdictions recognize copyright limitations, allowing \"fair\" exceptions to the creator's exclusivity of copyright and giving users certain rights. The development of digital media and computer network technologies have prompted reinterpretation of these exceptions, introduced new difficulties in enforcing copyright, and inspired additional challenges to the philosophical basis of copyright law. Simultaneously, businesses with great economic dependence upon copyright, such as those in the music business, have advocated the extension and expansion of copyright and sought additional legal and technological enforcement.\n\nCopyright licenses can also be granted by those deputized by the original claimant, and private companies may request this as a condition of doing business with them. Services of internet platform providers like YouTube, Facebook, GitHub, Hotmail, DropBox, Instagram, WhatsApp or Twitter only can be used when users grant the platform provider beforehand the right to co-use all uploaded content, including all material exchanged per email, chat or cloud-storage. These copyrights only apply for the firm that operates such a platform, no matter in what jurisdiction the platform-services are being offered. Private companies in general do not recognize exceptions or give users more rights than the right to use the platform according certain rules.\n\nCopyright came about with the invention of the printing press and with wider literacy. As a legal concept, its origins in Britain were from a reaction to printers' monopolies at the beginning of the 18th century. The English Parliament was concerned about the unregulated copying of books and passed the Licensing of the Press Act 1662, which established a register of licensed books and required a copy to be deposited with the Stationers' Company, essentially continuing the licensing of material that had long been in effect.\n\nCopyright laws allow products of creative human activities, such as literary and artistic production, to be preferentially exploited and thus incentivized. Different cultural attitudes, social organizations, economic models and legal frameworks are seen to account for why copyright emerged in Europe and not, for example, in Asia. In the Middle Ages in Europe, there was generally a lack of any concept of literary property due to the general relations of production, the specific organization of literary production and the role of culture in society. The latter refers to the tendency of oral societies, such as that of Europe in the medieval period, to view knowledge as the product and expression of the collective, rather than to see it as individual property. However, with copyright laws, intellectual production comes to be seen as a product of an individual, with attendant rights. The most significant point is that patent and copyright laws support the expansion of the range of creative human activities that can be commodified. This parallels the ways in which capitalism led to the commodification of many aspects of social life that earlier had no monetary or economic value per se.\n\nCopyright has grown from a legal concept regulating copying rights in the publishing of books and maps to one with a significant effect on nearly every modern industry, covering such items as sound recordings, films, photographs, software, and architectural works.\n\nOften seen as the first real copyright law, the 1709 British Statute of Anne gave the publishers rights for a fixed period, after which the copyright expired.\nThe act also alluded to individual rights of the artist. It began, \"Whereas Printers, Booksellers, and other Persons, have of late frequently taken the Liberty of Printing ... Books, and other Writings, without the Consent of the Authors ... to their very great Detriment, and too often to the Ruin of them and their Families:\". A right to benefit financially from the work is articulated, and court rulings and legislation have recognized a right to control the work, such as ensuring that the integrity of it is preserved. An irrevocable right to be recognized as the work's creator appears in some countries' copyright laws.\n\nThe Copyright Clause of the United States, Constitution (1787) authorized copyright legislation: \"To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.\" That is, by guaranteeing them a period of time in which they alone could profit from their works, they would be enabled and encouraged to invest the time required to create them, and this would be good for society as a whole. A right to profit from the work has been the philosophical underpinning for much legislation extending the duration of copyright, to the life of the creator and beyond, to their heirs.\n\nThe original length of copyright in the United States was 14 years, and it had to be explicitly applied for. If the author wished, they could apply for a second 14‑year monopoly grant, but after that the work entered the public domain, so it could be used and built upon by others.\n\nCopyright law was enacted rather late in German states, and the historian Eckhard Höffner argues that the absence of copyright laws in the early 19th century encouraged publishing, was profitable for authors, led to a proliferation of books, enhanced knowledge, and was ultimately an important factor in the ascendency of Germany as a power during that century.\n\nThe 1886 Berne Convention first established recognition of copyrights among sovereign nations, rather than merely bilaterally. Under the Berne Convention, copyrights for creative works do not have to be asserted or declared, as they are automatically in force at creation: an author need not \"register\" or \"apply for\" a copyright in countries adhering to the Berne Convention. As soon as a work is \"fixed\", that is, written or recorded on some physical medium, its author is automatically entitled to all copyrights in the work, and to any derivative works unless and until the author explicitly disclaims them, or until the copyright expires. The Berne Convention also resulted in foreign authors being treated equivalently to domestic authors, in any country signed onto the Convention. The UK signed the Berne Convention in 1887 but did not implement large parts of it until 100 years later with the passage of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. Specially, for educational and scientific research purposes, the Berne Convention provides the developing countries issue compulsory licenses for the translation or reproduction of copyrighted works within the limits prescribed by the Convention. This was a special provision that had been added at the time of 1971 revision of the Convention, because of the strong demands of the developing countries. The United States did not sign the Berne Convention until 1989.\n\nThe United States and most Latin American countries instead entered into the Buenos Aires Convention in 1910, which required a copyright notice on the work (such as \"all rights reserved\"), and permitted signatory nations to limit the duration of copyrights to shorter and renewable terms. The Universal Copyright Convention was drafted in 1952 as another less demanding alternative to the Berne Convention, and ratified by nations such as the Soviet Union and developing nations.\n\nThe regulations of the Berne Convention are incorporated into the World Trade Organization's TRIPS agreement (1995), thus giving the Berne Convention effectively near-global application.\n\nIn 1961, the United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property signed the Rome Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting Organizations. In 1996, this organization was succeeded by the founding of the World Intellectual Property Organization, which launched the 1996 WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty and the 2002 WIPO Copyright Treaty, which enacted greater restrictions on the use of technology to copy works in the nations that ratified it. The Trans-Pacific Partnership includes intellectual Property Provisions relating to copyright.\n\nCopyright laws are standardized somewhat through these international conventions such as the Berne Convention and Universal Copyright Convention. These multilateral treaties have been ratified by nearly all countries, and international organizations such as the European Union or World Trade Organization require their member states to comply with them.\n\nThe original holder of the copyright may be the employer of the author rather than the author himself if the work is a \"work for hire\". For example, in English law the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 provides that if a copyrighted work is made by an employee in the course of that employment, the copyright is automatically owned by the employer which would be a \"Work for Hire\". Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work i.e. the author. But when more than one person creates the work, then a case of joint authorship can be made provided some criteria are met.\n\nCopyright may apply to a wide range of creative, intellectual, or artistic forms, or \"works\". Specifics vary by jurisdiction, but these can include poems, theses, fictional characters plays and other literary works, motion pictures, choreography, musical compositions, sound recordings, paintings, drawings, sculptures, photographs, computer software, radio and television broadcasts, and industrial designs. Graphic designs and industrial designs may have separate or overlapping laws applied to them in some jurisdictions.\n\nCopyright does not cover ideas and information themselves, only the form or manner in which they are expressed. For example, the copyright to a Mickey Mouse cartoon restricts others from making copies of the cartoon or creating derivative works based on Disney's particular anthropomorphic mouse, but does not prohibit the creation of other works about anthropomorphic mice in general, so long as they are different enough to not be judged copies of Disney's. Note additionally that Mickey Mouse is not copyrighted because characters cannot be copyrighted; rather, Steamboat Willie is copyrighted and Mickey Mouse, as a character in that copyrighted work, is afforded protection.\n\nTypically, a work must meet minimal standards of originality in order to qualify for copyright, and the copyright expires after a set period of time (some jurisdictions may allow this to be extended). Different countries impose different tests, although generally the requirements are low; in the United Kingdom there has to be some \"skill, labour, and judgment\" that has gone into it. In Australia and the United Kingdom it has been held that a single word is insufficient to comprise a copyright work. However, single words or a short string of words can sometimes be registered as a trademark instead.\n\nCopyright law recognizes the right of an author based on whether the work actually is an original creation, rather than based on whether it is unique; two authors may own copyright on two substantially identical works, if it is determined that the duplication was coincidental, and neither was copied from the other.\n\nIn all countries where the Berne Convention standards apply, copyright is automatic, and need not be obtained through official registration with any government office. Once an idea has been reduced to tangible form, for example by securing it in a fixed medium (such as a drawing, sheet music, photograph, a videotape, or a computer file), the copyright holder is entitled to enforce his or her exclusive rights. However, while registration isn't needed to exercise copyright, in jurisdictions where the laws provide for registration, it serves as \"prima facie\" evidence of a valid copyright and enables the copyright holder to seek statutory damages and attorney's fees. (In the US, registering after an infringement only enables one to receive actual damages and lost profits.)\n\nA widely circulated strategy to avoid the cost of copyright registration is referred to as the poor man's copyright. It proposes that the creator send the work to himself in a sealed envelope by registered mail, using the postmark to establish the date. This technique has not been recognized in any published opinions of the United States courts. The United States Copyright Office says the technique is not a substitute for actual registration. The United Kingdom Intellectual Property Office discusses the technique and notes that the technique (as well as commercial registries) does not constitute dispositive proof that the work is original or establish who created the work. \n\nThe Berne Convention allows member countries to decide whether creative works must be \"fixed\" to enjoy copyright. Article 2, Section 2 of the Berne Convention states: \"It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to prescribe that works in general or any specified categories of works shall not be protected unless they have been fixed in some material form.\" Some countries do not require that a work be produced in a particular form to obtain copyright protection. For instance, Spain, France, and Australia do not require fixation for copyright protection. The United States and Canada, on the other hand, require that most works must be \"fixed in a tangible medium of expression\" to obtain copyright protection. U.S. law requires that the fixation be stable and permanent enough to be \"perceived, reproduced or communicated for a period of more than transitory duration.\" Similarly, Canadian courts consider fixation to require that the work be \"expressed to some extent at least in some material form, capable of identification and having a more or less permanent endurance.\"\n\nBefore 1989, United States law required the use of a copyright notice, consisting of the copyright symbol (©, the letter C inside a circle), the abbreviation \"Copr.\", or the word \"Copyright\", followed by the year of the first publication of the work and the name of the copyright holder. Several years may be noted if the work has gone through substantial revisions. The proper copyright notice for sound recordings of musical or other audio works is a sound recording copyright symbol (℗, the letter P inside a circle), which indicates a sound recording copyright, with the letter P indicating a \"phonorecord\". In addition, the phrase \"All rights reserved\" was once required to assert copyright, but that phrase is now legally obsolete. Almost everything on the Internet has some sort of copyright attached to it. Whether these things are watermarked, signed, or have any other sort of indication of the copyright is a different story however.\n\nIn 1989 the United States enacted the Berne Convention Implementation Act, amending the 1976 Copyright Act to conform to most of the provisions of the Berne Convention. As a result, the use of copyright notices has become optional to claim copyright, because the Berne Convention makes copyright automatic. However, the lack of notice of copyright using these marks may have consequences in terms of reduced damages in an infringement lawsuit – using notices of this form may reduce the likelihood of a defense of \"innocent infringement\" being successful.\n\nCopyrights are generally enforced by the holder in a civil law court, but there are also criminal infringement statutes in some jurisdictions. While central registries are kept in some countries which aid in proving claims of ownership, registering does not necessarily prove ownership, nor does the fact of copying (even without permission) necessarily prove that copyright was infringed. Criminal sanctions are generally aimed at serious counterfeiting activity, but are now becoming more commonplace as copyright collectives such as the RIAA are increasingly targeting the file sharing home Internet user. Thus far, however, most such cases against file sharers have been settled out of court. (See: Legal aspects of file sharing)\n\nIn most jurisdictions the copyright holder must bear the cost of enforcing copyright. This will usually involve engaging legal representation, administrative or court costs. In light of this, many copyright disputes are settled by a direct approach to the infringing party in order to settle the dispute out of court.\n\n\"...by 1978, the scope was expanded to apply to any 'expression' that has been 'fixed' in any medium, this protection granted automatically whether the maker wants it or not, no registration required.\"\n\nFor a work to be considered to infringe upon copyright, its use must have occurred in a nation that has domestic copyright laws or adheres to a bilateral treaty or established international convention such as the Berne Convention or WIPO Copyright Treaty. Improper use of materials outside of legislation is deemed \"unauthorized edition\", not copyright infringement.\n\nStatistics regarding the effects of copyright infringement are difficult to determine. Studies have attempted to determine whether there is a monetary loss for industries affected by copyright infringement by predicting what portion of pirated works would have been formally purchased if they had not been freely available. Other reports indicate that copyright infringement does not have an adverse effect on the entertainment industry, and can have a positive effect. In particular, a 2014 university study concluded that free music content, accessed on YouTube, does not necessarily hurt sales, instead has the potential to increase sales.\n\nSeveral exclusive rights typically attach to the holder of a copyright:\n\nThe basic right when a work is protected by copyright is that the holder may determine and decide how and under what conditions the protected work may be used by others. This includes the right to decide to distribute the work for free. This part of copyright is often overseen. The phrase \"exclusive right\" means that only the copyright holder is free to exercise those rights, and others are prohibited from using the work without the holder's permission. Copyright is sometimes called a \"negative right\", as it serves to prohibit certain people (e.g., readers, viewers, or listeners, and primarily publishers and would be publishers) from doing something they would otherwise be able to do, rather than permitting people (e.g., authors) to do something they would otherwise be unable to do. In this way it is similar to the unregistered design right in English law and European law. The rights of the copyright holder also permit him/her to not use or exploit their copyright, for some or all of the term. There is, however, a critique which rejects this assertion as being based on a philosophical interpretation of copyright law that is not universally shared. There is also debate on whether copyright should be considered a property right or a moral right.\n\nCopyright subsists for a variety of lengths in different jurisdictions. The length of the term can depend on several factors, including the type of work (e.g. musical composition, novel), whether the work has been published, and whether the work was created by an individual or a corporation. In most of the world, the default length of copyright is the life of the author plus either 50 or 70 years. In the United States, the term for most existing works is a fixed number of years after the date of creation or publication. Under most countries' laws (for example, the United States and the United Kingdom), copyrights expire at the end of the calendar year in question.\n\nThe length and requirements for copyright duration are subject to change by legislation, and since the early 20th century there have been a number of adjustments made in various countries, which can make determining the duration of a given copyright somewhat difficult. For example, the United States used to require copyrights to be renewed after 28 years to stay in force, and formerly required a copyright notice upon first publication to gain coverage. In Italy and France, there were post-wartime extensions that could increase the term by approximately 6 years in Italy and up to about 14 in France. Many countries have extended the length of their copyright terms (sometimes retroactively). International treaties establish minimum terms for copyrights, but individual countries may enforce longer terms than those.\n\nIn the United States, all books and other works published before 1923 have expired copyrights and are in the public domain. In addition, works published before 1964 that did not have their copyrights renewed 28 years after first publication year also are in the public domain. Hirtle points out that the great majority of these works (including 93% of the books) were not renewed after 28 years and are in the public domain. Books originally published outside the US by non-Americans are exempt from this renewal requirement, if they are still under copyright in their home country.\n\nBut if the intended exploitation of the work includes publication (or distribution of derivative work, such as a film based on a book protected by copyright) outside the U.S., the terms of copyright around the world must be considered. If the author has been dead more than 70 years, the work is in the public domain in most, but not all, countries.\n\nIn 1998, the length of a copyright in the United States was increased by 20 years under the Copyright Term Extension Act. This legislation was strongly promoted by corporations which had valuable copyrights which otherwise would have expired, and has been the subject of substantial criticism on this point.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, copyright law makes exceptions to these restrictions when the work is copied for the purpose of commentary or other related uses. US copyright does NOT cover names, title, short phrases or Listings (such as ingredients, recipes, labels, or formulas). However, there are protections available for those areas copyright does not cover – such as trademarks and patents.\n\nThere are some exceptions to what copyright will protect. Copyright will not protect:\n\nThe idea–expression divide differentiates between ideas and expression, and states that copyright protects only the original expression of ideas, and not the ideas themselves. This principle, first clarified in the 1879 case of Baker v. Selden, has since been codified by the Copyright Act of 1976 at 17 U.S.C. § 102(b).\n\nCopyright law does not restrict the owner of a copy from reselling legitimately obtained copies of copyrighted works, provided that those copies were originally produced by or with the permission of the copyright holder. It is therefore legal, for example, to resell a copyrighted book or CD. In the United States this is known as the first-sale doctrine, and was established by the courts to clarify the legality of reselling books in second-hand bookstores.\n\nSome countries may have parallel importation restrictions that allow the copyright holder to control the aftermarket. This may mean for example that a copy of a book that does not infringe copyright in the country where it was printed does infringe copyright in a country into which it is imported for retailing. The first-sale doctrine is known as exhaustion of rights in other countries and is a principle which also applies, though somewhat differently, to patent and trademark rights. It is important to note that the first-sale doctrine permits the transfer of the particular legitimate copy involved. It does not permit making or distributing additional copies.\n\nIn \"Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.\", in 2013, the United States Supreme Court held in a 6-3 decision that the first-sale doctrine applies to goods manufactured abroad with the copyright owner's permission and then imported into the US without such permission. The case involved a plaintiff who imported Asian editions of textbooks that had been manufactured abroad with the publisher-plaintiff's permission. The defendant, without permission from the publisher, imported the textbooks and resold on eBay. The Supreme Court's holding severely limits the ability of copyright holders to prevent such importation.\n\nIn addition, copyright, in most cases, does not prohibit one from acts such as modifying, defacing, or destroying his or her own legitimately obtained copy of a copyrighted work, so long as duplication is not involved. However, in countries that implement moral rights, a copyright holder can in some cases successfully prevent the mutilation or destruction of a work that is publicly visible.\n\nCopyright does not prohibit all copying or replication. In the United States, the fair use doctrine, codified by the Copyright Act of 1976 as 17 U.S.C. Section 107, permits some copying and distribution without permission of the copyright holder or payment to same. The statute does not clearly define fair use, but instead gives four non-exclusive factors to consider in a fair use analysis. Those factors are:\n\nIn the United Kingdom and many other Commonwealth countries, a similar notion of fair dealing was established by the courts or through legislation. The concept is sometimes not well defined; however in Canada, private copying for personal use has been expressly permitted by statute since 1999. In \"Alberta (Education) v. Canadian Copyright Licensing Agency (Access Copyright)\", 2012 SCC 37, the Supreme Court of Canada concluded that limited copying for educational purposes could also be justified under the fair dealing exemption. In Australia, the fair dealing exceptions under the \"Copyright Act 1968\" (Cth) are a limited set of circumstances under which copyrighted material can be legally copied or adapted without the copyright holder's consent. Fair dealing uses are research and study; review and critique; news reportage and the giving of professional advice (i.e. legal advice). Under current Australian law, although it is still a breach of copyright to copy, reproduce or adapt copyright material for personal or private use without permission from the copyright owner, owners of a legitimate copy are permitted to “format shift” that work from one medium to another for personal, private use, or to “time shift” a broadcast work for later, once and only once, viewing or listening. Other technical exemptions from infringement may also apply, such as the temporary reproduction of a work in machine readable form for a computer.\n\nIn the United States the AHRA (Audio Home Recording Act Codified in Section 10, 1992) prohibits action against consumers making noncommercial recordings of music, in return for royalties on both media and devices plus mandatory copy-control mechanisms on recorders.\n\nLater acts amended US Copyright law so that for certain purposes making 10 copies or more is construed to be commercial, but there is no general rule permitting such copying. Indeed, making one complete copy of a work, or in many cases using a portion of it, for commercial purposes will not be considered fair use. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act prohibits the manufacture, importation, or distribution of devices whose intended use, or only significant commercial use, is to bypass an access or copy control put in place by a copyright owner. An appellate court has held that fair use is not a defense to engaging in such distribution.\n\nThe copyright directive allows EU member states to implement a set of exceptions to copyright. Examples of those exceptions are:\n\nIt is legal in several countries including the United Kingdom and the United States to produce alternative versions (for example, in large print or braille) of a copyrighted work to provide improved access to a work for blind and visually impaired persons without permission from the copyright holder.\n\nA copyright, or aspects of it (e.g. reproduction alone, all but moral rights), may be assigned or transferred from one party to another. For example, a musician who records an album will often sign an agreement with a record company in which the musician agrees to transfer all copyright in the recordings in exchange for royalties and other considerations. The creator (and original copyright holder) benefits, or expects to, from production and marketing capabilities far beyond those of the author. In the digital age of music, music may be copied and distributed at minimal cost through the Internet; however, the record industry attempts to provide promotion and marketing for the artist and his or her work so it can reach a much larger audience. A copyright holder need not transfer all rights completely, though many publishers will insist. Some of the rights may be transferred, or else the copyright holder may grant another party a non-exclusive license to copy or distribute the work in a particular region or for a specified period of time.\n\nA transfer or licence may have to meet particular formal requirements in order to be effective, for example under the Australian Copyright Act 1968 the copyright itself must be expressly transferred in writing. Under the U.S. Copyright Act, a transfer of ownership in copyright must be memorialized in a writing signed by the transferor. For that purpose, ownership in copyright includes exclusive licenses of rights. Thus exclusive licenses, to be effective, must be granted in a written instrument signed by the grantor. No special form of transfer or grant is required. A simple document that identifies the work involved and the rights being granted is sufficient. Non-exclusive grants (often called non-exclusive licenses) need not be in writing under U.S. law. They can be oral or even implied by the behavior of the parties. Transfers of copyright ownership, including exclusive licenses, may and should be recorded in the U.S. Copyright Office. (Information on recording transfers is available on the Office's web site.) While recording is not required to make the grant effective, it offers important benefits, much like those obtained by recording a deed in a real estate transaction.\n\nCopyright may also be licensed. Some jurisdictions may provide that certain classes of copyrighted works be made available under a prescribed statutory license (e.g. musical works in the United States used for radio broadcast or performance). This is also called a compulsory license, because under this scheme, anyone who wishes to copy a covered work does not need the permission of the copyright holder, but instead merely files the proper notice and pays a set fee established by statute (or by an agency decision under statutory guidance) for every copy made. Failure to follow the proper procedures would place the copier at risk of an infringement suit. Because of the difficulty of following every individual work, copyright collectives or collecting societies and performing rights organizations (such as ASCAP, BMI, and SESAC) have been formed to collect royalties for hundreds (thousands and more) works at once. Though this market solution bypasses the statutory license, the availability of the statutory fee still helps dictate the price per work collective rights organizations charge, driving it down to what avoidance of procedural hassle would justify.\n\nCopyright licenses known as \"open\" or free licenses seek to grant several rights to licensees, either for a fee or not. \"Free\" in this context is not as much of a reference to price as it is to freedom. What constitutes free licensing has been characterised in a number of similar definitions, including by order of longevity the Free Software Definition, the Debian Free Software Guidelines, the Open Source Definition and the Definition of Free Cultural Works. Further refinements to these definitions have resulted in categories such as copyleft and permissive. Common examples of free licences are the GNU General Public License, BSD licenses and some Creative Commons licenses.\n\nFounded in 2001 by James Boyle, Lawrence Lessig, and Hal Abelson, the Creative Commons (CC) is a non-profit organization which aims to facilitate the legal sharing of creative works. To this end, the organization provides a number of generic copyright license options to the public, gratis. These licenses allow copyright holders to define conditions under which others may use a work and to specify what types of use are acceptable.\n\nTerms of use have traditionally been negotiated on an individual basis between copyright holder and potential licensee. Therefore, a general CC license outlining which rights the copyright holder is willing to waive enables the general public to use such works more freely. Six general types of CC licenses are available (although some of them are not properly free per the above definitions and per Creative Commons' own advice). These are based upon copyright-holder stipulations such as whether he or she is willing to allow modifications to the work, whether he or she permits the creation of derivative works and whether he or she is willing to permit commercial use of the work. approximately 130 million individuals had received such licenses.\n\nSome sources are critical of particular aspects of the copyright system. This is known as a debate over copynorms. Particularly to the background of uploading content to internet platforms and the digital exchange of original work, there is discussion about the copyright aspects of downloading and streaming, the copyright aspects of hyperlinking and framing.\n\nThe interests of big internet platform service providers like Google, Amazon, Facebook or Microsoft, partly depending on users uploading content for free to their servers, collide with those of original content creators and right holders, both big, like Sony, Getty Images, Warner Bros, Elsevier, Springer and small, like local bands, national newspapers and TV-channels. In Germany the national public organisation GEMA, that collects copyright fees for composers, copywriters and music-publishers, won a juridical fight with Google over payment for songs published on YouTube.\n\nConcerns are often couched in the language of digital rights, digital freedom, database rights, open data or censorship. Discussions include \"Free Culture\", a 2004 book by Lawrence Lessig. Lessig coined the term permission culture to describe a worst-case system. \"Good Copy Bad Copy\" (documentary) and , discuss copyright. Some suggest an alternative compensation system. In Europe consumers are acting up against the raising costs of music, film and books, a political party has been grown out of it, \"The Pirates\". Some groups reject copyright altogether, taking an anti-copyright stance. The perceived inability to enforce copyright online leads some to advocate ignoring legal statutes when on the web.\n\nCopyright, like other intellectual property rights, is subject to a statutorily determined term. Once the term of a copyright has expired, the formerly copyrighted work enters the public domain and may be used or exploited by anyone without obtaining permission, and normally without payment. However, in paying public domain regimes the user may still have to pay royalties to the state or to an authors' association. Courts in common law countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, have rejected the doctrine of a common law copyright. Public domain works should not be confused with works that are publicly available. Works posted in the internet, for example, are publicly available, but are not generally in the public domain. Copying such works may therefore violate the author's copyright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24400357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24400357", "title": "Cost of electricity by source", "text": "Cost of electricity by source\n\nIn electrical power generation, the distinct ways of generating electricity incur significantly different costs. Calculations of these costs can be made at the point of connection to a load or to the electricity grid. The cost is typically given per kilowatt-hour or megawatt-hour. It includes the initial capital, discount rate, as well as the costs of continuous operation, fuel, and maintenance. This type of calculation assists policymakers, researchers and others to guide discussions and decision making.\n\nThe levelized cost of energy (LCOE) is a measure of a power source that allows comparison of different methods of electricity generation on a consistent basis. It is an economic assessment of the average total cost to build and operate a power-generating asset over its lifetime divided by the total energy output of the asset over that lifetime. The LCOE can also be regarded as the average minimum price at which electricity must be sold in order to break-even over the lifetime of the project.\n\nWhile calculating costs, several internal cost factors have to be considered. Note the use of \"costs,\" which is not the actual selling price, since this can be affected by a variety of factors such as subsidies and taxes:\n\n\nTo evaluate the total cost of production of electricity, the streams of costs are converted to a net present value using the time value of money. These costs are all brought together using discounted cash flow.\n\nThe levelized cost of electricity (LCOE), also known as Levelized Energy Cost (LEC), is the net present value of the unit-cost of electricity over the lifetime of a generating asset. It is often taken as a proxy for the average price that the generating asset must receive in a market to break even over its lifetime. It is a first-order economic assessment of the cost competitiveness of an electricity-generating system that incorporates all costs over its lifetime: initial investment, operations and maintenance, cost of fuel, cost of capital.\n\nThe levelized cost is that value for which an equal-valued fixed revenue delivered over the life of the asset's generating profile would cause the project to break even. This can be roughly calculated as the net present value of all costs over the lifetime of the asset divided by the total electrical energy output of the asset.\n\nThe levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) is given by:\n\nTypically the LCOE is calculated over the design lifetime of a plant, which is usually 20 to 40 years, and given in the units of currency per kilowatt-hour or megawatt-day, for example AUD/kWh or EUR/kWh or per megawatt-hour, for example AUD/MWh (as tabulated below). However, care should be taken in comparing different LCOE studies and the sources of the information as the LCOE for a given energy source is highly dependent on the assumptions, financing terms and technological deployment analyzed. In particular, assumption of capacity factor has significant impact on the calculation of LCOE. Thus, a key requirement for the analysis is a clear statement of the applicability of the analysis based on justified assumptions.\n\nMany scholars, such as Paul Joskow, have described limits to the \"levelized cost of electricity\" metric for comparing new generating sources. In particular, LCOE ignores time effects associated with matching production to demand. This happens at two levels:\nThermally lethargic technologies like coal and nuclear are physically incapable of fast ramping. Capital intensive technologies such as wind, solar, and nuclear are economically disadvantaged unless generating at maximum availability since the LCOE is nearly all sunk-cost capital investment. Intermittent power sources, such as wind and solar, may incur extra costs associated with needing to have storage or backup generation available. At the same time, intermittent sources can be competitive if they are available to produce when demand and prices are highest, such as solar during summertime mid-day peaks seen in hot countries where air conditioning is a major consumer. Despite these time limitations, leveling costs is often a necessary prerequisite for making comparisons on an equal footing before demand profiles are considered, and the levelized-cost metric is widely used for comparing technologies at the margin, where grid implications of new generation can be neglected.\n\nAnother limitation of the LCOE metric is the influence of energy efficiency and conservation (EEC).\nEEC has caused the electricity demand of many countries to remain flat or decline. Considering only the LCOE for utility scale plants will tend to maximise generation and risks overestimating required generation due to efficiency, thus \"lowballing\" their LCOE. For solar systems installed at the point of end use, it is more economical to invest in EEC first, then solar (resulting in a smaller required solar system than what would be needed without the EEC measures). However, designing a solar system on the basis of LCOE would cause the smaller system LCOE to increase (as the energy generation [measured in kWh] drops faster than the system cost [$]). The whole of system life cycle cost should be considered, not just the LCOE of the energy source. LCOE is not as relevant to end-users than other financial considerations such as income, cashflow, mortgage, leases, rent, and electricity bills. Comparing solar investments in relation to these can make it easier for end-users to make a decision, or using cost-benefit calculations \"and/or an asset’s capacity value or contribution to peak on a system or circuit level\".\n\nThe US Energy Information Administration has recommended that levelized costs of non-dispatchable sources such as wind or solar may be better compared to the avoided energy cost rather than to the LCOE of dispatchable sources such as fossil fuels or geothermal. This is because introduction of fluctuating power sources may or may not avoid capital and maintenance costs of backup dispatchable sources. Levelized Avoided Cost of Energy (LACE) is the avoided costs from other sources divided by the annual yearly output of the non-dispatchable source. However, the avoided cost is much harder to calculate accurately.\n\nA more accurate economic assessment might be the marginal cost of electricity. This value works by comparing the added system cost of increasing electricity generation from one source versus that from other sources of electricity generation (see Merit Order).\nTypically pricing of electricity from various energy sources may not include all external costs – that is, the costs indirectly borne by society as a whole as a consequence of using that energy source. These may include enabling costs, environmental impacts, usage lifespans, energy storage, recycling costs, or beyond-insurance accident effects.\n\nThe US Energy Information Administration predicts that coal and gas are set to be continually used to deliver the majority of the world's electricity. This is expected to result in the evacuation of millions of homes in low-lying areas, and an annual cost of hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of property damage.\n\nFurthermore, with a number of island nations becoming slowly submerged underwater due to rising sea levels, massive international climate litigation lawsuits against fossil fuel users are currently beginning in the International Court of Justice.\n\nAn EU funded research study known as ExternE, or Externalities of Energy, undertaken over the period of 1995 to 2005 found that the cost of producing electricity from coal or oil would double over its present value, and the cost of electricity production from gas would increase by 30% if external costs such as damage to the environment and to human health, from the particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, chromium VI, river water alkalinity, mercury poisoning and arsenic emissions produced by these sources, were taken into account. It was estimated in the study that these external, downstream, fossil fuel costs amount up to 1%–2% of the EU’s entire Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and this was before the external cost of global warming from these sources was even included. Coal has the highest external cost in the EU, and global warming is the largest part of that cost.\n\nA means to address a part of the external costs of fossil fuel generation is carbon pricing — the method most favored by economics for reducing global-warming emissions. Carbon pricing charges those who emit carbon dioxide (CO) for their emissions. That charge, called a 'carbon price', is the amount that must be paid for the right to emit one tonne of CO into the atmosphere. Carbon pricing usually takes the form of a carbon tax or a requirement to purchase permits to emit (also called \"allowances\").\n\nDepending on the assumptions of possible accidents and their probabilites external costs for nuclear power vary significantly and can reach between 0.2 and 200 ct/kWh. Furthermore, nuclear power is working under an insurance framework that limits or structures accident liabilities in accordance with the Paris convention on nuclear third-party liability, the Brussels supplementary convention, and the Vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage and in the U.S. the Price-Anderson Act. It is often argued that this potential shortfall in liability represents an external cost not included in the cost of nuclear electricity; but the cost is small, amounting to about 0.1% of the levelized cost of electricity, according to a CBO study.\n\nThese beyond-insurance costs for worst-case scenarios are not unique to nuclear power, as hydroelectric power plants are similarly not fully insured against a catastrophic event such as the Banqiao Dam disaster, where 11 million people lost their homes and from 30,000 to 200,000 people died, or large dam failures in general. As private insurers base dam insurance premiums on limited scenarios, major disaster insurance in this sector is likewise provided by the state.\n\nBecause externalities are diffuse in their effect, external costs can not be measured directly, but must be estimated. One approach estimate external costs of environmental impact of electricity is the Methodological Convention of Federal Environment Agency of Germany. That method arrives at external costs of electricity from lignite at 10.75 Eurocent/kWh, from hard coal 8.94 Eurocent/kWh, from natural gas 4.91 Eurocent/kWh, from photovoltaic 1.18 Eurocent/kWh, from wind 0.26 Eurocent/kWh and from hydro 0.18 Eurocent/kWh. For nuclear the Federal Environment Agency indicates no value, as different studies have results that vary by a factor of 1,000. It recommends the nuclear given the huge uncertainty, with the cost of the next inferior energy source to evaluate. Based on this recommendation the Federal Environment Agency, and with their own method, the Forum Ecological-social market economy, arrive at external environmental costs of nuclear energy at 10.7 to 34 ct/kWh.\n\nCalculations often do not include wider system costs associated with each type of plant, such as long distance transmission connections to grids, or balancing and reserve costs. Calculations do not include externalities such as health damage by coal plants, nor the effect of CO emissions on the climate change, ocean acidification and eutrophication, ocean current shifts. Decommissioning costs of nuclear plants are usually not included (The USA is an exception, because the cost of decommissioning is included in the price of electricity, per the Nuclear Waste Policy Act), is therefore not full cost accounting. These types of items can be explicitly added as necessary depending on the purpose of the calculation. It has little relation to actual price of power, but assists policy makers and others to guide discussions and decision making.\n\nThese are not minor factors but very significantly affect all responsible power decisions:\n\nIn November, 2018, Lazard found that not only are utility-scale solar and wind cheaper than fossil fuels, \"[i]n some scenarios, alternative energy costs have decreased to the point that they are now at or below the marginal cost of conventional generation.\" \nOverall, Lazard found \"The low end levelized cost of onshore wind-generated energy is $29/MWh, compared to an average illustrative marginal cost of $36/MWh for coal. The levelized cost of utility-scale solar is nearly identical to the illustrative marginal cost of coal, at $36/MWh. This comparison is accentuated when subsidizing onshore wind and solar, which results in levelized costs of energy of $14/MWh and $32/MWh, respectively. ... The mean levelized cost of energy of utility-scale PV technologies is down approximately 13% from last year and the mean levelized cost of energy of onshore wind has declined almost 7%.\"\n\nBloomberg New Energy Finance estimates a \"global LCOE for onshore wind [of] $55 per megawatt-hour, down 18% from the first six months of [2017], while the equivalent for solar PV without tracking systems is $70 per MWh, also down 18%.\" Bloomberg does not provide its global public LCOEs for fossil fuels, but it notes in India they are significantly more expensive: \"BNEF is now showing benchmark LCOEs for onshore wind of just $39 per MWh, down 46% on a year ago, and for solar PV at $41, down 45%. By comparison, coal comes in at $68 per MWh, and combined-cycle gas at $93.\" \n\nThe International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) released a study based on comprehensive international datasets in January 2018 which projects the fall by 2020 of the kilowatt cost of electricity from utility scale renewable projects such as onshore wind farms to a point equal or below that of electricity from conventional sources.\n\nThe European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) says that \"renewables are now cheapest energy source\", elaborating: \"the Bank believes that renewable energy markets in many of the countries where it invests have reached a stage where the introduction of competitive auctions will lead both to a steep drop in electricity prices and an increase in investment.\" The World Bank (World Bank) President Jim Yong Kim agreed on 10 October 2018: \"We are required by our by-laws to go with the lowest cost option, and renewables have now come below the cost of [fossil fuels].\" \n\nAccording to various studies, the cost for wind and solar has dramatically reduced since 2006. For example, the Australian Climate Council states that over the 5 years between 2009–2014 solar costs fell by 75% making them comparable to coal, and are expected to continue dropping over the next 5 years by another 45% from 2014 prices. They also found that wind has been cheaper than coal since 2013, and that coal and gas will become less viable as subsidies are withdrawn and there is the expectation that they will eventually have to pay the costs of pollution.\n\nA CO2CRC report, printed on the 27th of November 2015, titled \"Wind, solar, coal and gas to reach similar costs by 2030:\", provides the following updated situation in Australia. \"The updated LCOE analysis finds that in 2015 natural gas combined cycle and supercritical pulverised coal (both black and brown) plants have the lowest LCOEs of the technologies covered in the study. Wind is the lowest cost large-scale renewable energy source, while rooftop solar panels are competitive with retail electricity prices. By 2030 the LCOE ranges of both conventional coal and gas technologies as well as wind and large-scale solar converge to a common range of A$50 to A$100 per megawatt hour.\"\n\nAn updated report, posted on the 27th of September 2017, titled \"Renewables will be cheaper than coal in the future. Here are the numbers\", indicated that a 100% renewables system is competitive with new-build supercritical (ultrasupercritical) coal, which, according to the Jacobs calculations in the report link above, would come in at around A$75(80) per MWh between 2020 and 2050. This projection for supercritical coal is consistent with other studies by the CO2CRC in 2015 (A$80 per MWh) and used by CSIRO in 2017 (A$65-80 per MWh).\n\nThe International Energy Agency and EDF have estimated for 2011 the following costs. For the nuclear power they include the costs due to new safety investments to upgrade the French nuclear plant after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster; the cost for those investments is estimated at 4 €/MWh. Concerning the solar power the estimate at 293 €/MWh is for a large plant capable to produce in the range of 50–100 GWh/year located in a favorable location (such as in Southern Europe). For a small household plant capable to produce typically around 3 MWh/year the cost is according to the location between 400 and 700 €/MWh. Currently solar power is by far the most expensive renewable source to produce electricity among the technologies studied, although increasing efficiency and longer lifespan of photovoltaic panels together with reduced production costs could make this source of energy more competitive. In 2017, cost of generation decrease to €55,5/MWh for plant between 5 and 17MWp.\n\nIn November 2013, the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems ISE assessed the levelised generation costs for newly built power plants in the German electricity sector. PV systems reached LCOE between 0.078 and 0.142 Euro/kWh in the third quarter of 2013, depending on the type of power plant (ground-mounted utility-scale or small rooftop solar PV) and average German insolation of 1000 to 1200 kWh/m² per year (GHI). There are no LCOE-figures available for electricity generated by recently built German nuclear power plants as none have been constructed since the late 1980s. An update of the ISE study was published in March 2018.\n\nA 2010 study by the Japanese government (pre-Fukushima disaster), called the Energy White Paper, concluded the cost for kilowatt hour was ¥49 for solar, ¥10 to ¥14 for wind, and ¥5 or ¥6 for nuclear power. Masayoshi Son, an advocate for renewable energy, however, has pointed out that the government estimates for nuclear power did not include the costs for reprocessing the fuel or disaster insurance liability. Son estimated that if these costs were included, the cost of nuclear power was about the same as wind power.\n\nThe Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland commissioned a former Director of Operations of the British National Grid, Colin Gibson, to produce a report on generation levelised costs that for the first time would include some of the transmission costs as well as the generation costs. This was published in December 2011. The institution seeks to encourage debate of the issue, and has taken the unusual step among compilers of such studies of publishing a spreadsheet.\n\nOn 27 February 2015 Vattenfall Vindkraft AS agreed to build the Horns Rev 3 offshore wind farm at a price of 10.31 Eurocent per kWh. This has been quoted as below £100 per MWh.\n\nIn 2013 in the United Kingdom for a new-to-build nuclear power plant (Hinkley Point C: completion 2023), a feed-in tariff of £92.50/MWh (around 142 USD/MWh) plus compensation for inflation with a running time of 35 years was agreed.\n\nThe Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) publishes regular estimates of the costs of different electricity generation sources, following on the estimates of the merged Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). Levelised cost estimates for new generation projects begun in 2015 are listed in the table below.\n\nThe following data are from the Energy Information Administration's (EIA) Annual Energy Outlook released in 2015 (AEO2015). They are in dollars per megawatt-hour (2013 USD/MWh). These figures are estimates for plants going into service in 2020. The LCOE below is calculated based off a 30-year recovery period using a real after tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 6.1%. For carbon intensive technologies 3 percentage points are added to the WACC. (This is approximately equivalent fee of $15 per metric ton of carbon dioxide )\n\nSince 2010, the US Energy Information Administration (EIA) has published the Annual Energy Outlook (AEO), with yearly LCOE-projections for future utility-scale facilities to be commissioned in about five years' time. In 2015, EIA has been criticized by the Advanced Energy Economy (AEE) Institute after its release of the AEO 2015-report to \"consistently underestimate the growth rate of renewable energy, leading to 'misperceptions' about the performance of these resources in the marketplace\". AEE points out that the average power purchase agreement (PPA) for wind power was already at $24/MWh in 2013. Likewise, PPA for utility-scale solar PV are seen at current levels of $50–$75/MWh. These figures contrast strongly with EIA's estimated LCOE of $125/MWh (or $114/MWh including subsidies) for solar PV in 2020.\nThe electricity sources which had the most decrease in estimated costs over the period 2010 to 2017 were solar photovoltaic (down 81%), onshore wind (down 63%) and advanced natural gas combined cycle (down 32%).\n\nFor utility-scale generation put into service in 2040, the EIA estimated in 2015 that there would be further reductions in the constant-dollar cost of concentrated solar power (CSP) (down 18%), solar photovoltaic (down 15%), offshore wind (down 11%), and advanced nuclear (down 7%). The cost of onshore wind was expected to rise slightly (up 2%) by 2040, while natural gas combined cycle electricity was expected to increase 9% to 10% over the period.\n\nOpenEI, sponsored jointly by the US DOE and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), has compiled a historical cost-of-generation database covering a wide variety of generation sources. Because the data is open source it may be subject to frequent revision.\n\nLCOE data from the California Energy Commission report titled \"Estimated Cost of New Renewable and Fossil Generation in California\". The model data was calculated for all three classes of developers: merchant, investor-owned utility (IOU), and publicly owned utility (POU).\nIn November 2015, the investment bank Lazard headquartered in New York, published its ninth annual study on the current electricity production costs of photovoltaics in the US compared to conventional power generators. The best large-scale photovoltaic power plants can produce electricity at 50 USD per MWh. The upper limit at 60 USD per MWh. In comparison, coal-fired plants are between 65 USD and $150 per MWh, nuclear power at 97 USD per MWh. Small photovoltaic power plants on roofs of houses are still at 184–300 USD per MWh, but which can do without electricity transport costs. Onshore wind turbines are 32–77 USD per MWh. One drawback is the intermittency of solar and wind power. The study suggests a solution in batteries as a storage, but these are still expensive so far.\n\nLazard's long standing Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) report is widely considered and industry benchmark. In 2015 Lazard published its inaugural Levelized Cost of Storage (LCOS) report, which was developed by the investment bank Lazard in collaboration with the energy consulting firm, Enovation.\n\nBelow is the complete list of LCOEs by source from the investment bank Lazard.\n\nNOTE: ** Battery Storage is no longer include in this report (2015). It has been rolled into its own separate report LCOS 1.0, developed in consultation with Enovation Partners (See charts below).\n\nBelow are the LCOSs for different battery technologies. This category has traditionally been filled by Diesel Engines. These are \"Behind the meter\" applications.\nBelow are the LCOSs for different battery technologies. This category has traditionally been filled by Natural Gas Engines. These are \"In front of the meter\" applications.\n\nOn December 15, 2016 Lazard released version 10 of their LCOE report and version 2 of their LCOS report.\n\nOn November 2, 2017 the investment bank Lazard released version 11 of their LCOE report and version 3 of their LCOS report.\n\nBelow are the unsubsidized LCOSs for different battery technologies for \"Behind the Meter\" (BTM) applications.\nBelow are the Unsubsidized LCOSs for different battery technologies \"Front of the Meter\" (FTM) applications.\n\nNote: Flow battery value range estimates\n\nThe International Energy Agency and the Nuclear Energy Agency published a joint study in 2015 on LCOE data internationally.\n\nIn a power purchase agreement in the United States in July 2015 for a period of 20 years of solar power will be paid 3.87 UScent per kilowatt hour (38.7 USD/MWh). The solar system, which produces this solar power, is in Nevada (USA) and has 100 MW capacity.\n\nIn the spring of 2016 a winning bid of 2.99 US cents per kilowatt-hour of photovoltaic solar energy was achieved for the next (800MW capacity) phase of the Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid solar farm in Dubai.\n\nIn 2014, the Brookings Institution published \"The Net Benefits of Low and No-Carbon Electricity Technologies\" which states, after performing an energy and emissions cost analysis, that \"The net benefits of new nuclear, hydro, and natural gas combined cycle plants far outweigh the net benefits of new wind or solar plants\", with the most cost effective low carbon power technology being determined to be nuclear power.\n\nAs long as exergy stands for the useful energy required for an economic activity to be accomplished, it is reasonable to evaluate the cost of the energy on the basis of its exergy content. Besides, as exergy can be considered as measure of the departure of the environmental conditions, it also serves as an indicator of environmental impact, taking into account both the efficiency of supply chain (from primary exergy inputs) and the efficiency of the production processes. In this way, exergoeconomy can be used to rationally distribute the exergy costs and emission cost among the products and by-products of a highly integrated Brazilian electricity mix. Based on the thermoeconomy methodologies, some authors have shown that exergoeconomy provides an opportunity to quantify the renewable and non-renewable specific exergy consumption; to properly allocate the associated emissions among the streams of a given production route; as well as to determine the overall exergy conversion efficiency of the production processes. Accordingly, the non-renewable unit exergy cost (cNR) [kJ/kJ] is defined as the rate of non-renewable exergy necessary to produce one unit of exergy rate/flow rate of a substance, fuel, electricity, work or heat flow, whereas the Total Unit Exergy Cost (cT) includes the Renewable (cR) and Non-Renewable Unit Exergy Costs. Analogously, the emission cost (c) [g/kJ] is defined as the rate of emitted to obtain one unit of exergy rate/flow rate.\n\nPhotovoltaic prices have fallen from $76.67 per watt in 1977 to nearly $0.23 per watt in August 2017, for crystalline silicon solar cells. This is seen as evidence supporting Swanson's law, which states that solar cell prices fall 20% for every doubling of cumulative shipments. The famous Moore's law calls for a doubling of transistor count every two years.\n\nBy 2011, the price of PV modules per MW had fallen by 60% since 2008, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates, putting solar power for the first time on a competitive footing with the retail price of electricity in some sunny countries; an alternative and consistent price decline figure of 75% from 2007 to 2012 has also been published, though it is unclear whether these figures are specific to the United States or generally global. The levelised cost of electricity (LCOE) from PV is competitive with conventional electricity sources in an expanding list of geographic regions, particularly when the time of generation is included, as electricity is worth more during the day than at night. There has been fierce competition in the supply chain, and further improvements in the levelised cost of energy for solar lie ahead, posing a growing threat to the dominance of fossil fuel generation sources in the next few years. As time progresses, renewable energy technologies generally get cheaper, while fossil fuels generally get more expensive:\nIn the year 2015, First Solar agreed to supply solar power at 3.87 cents/kWh levelised price from its 100 MW Playa Solar 2 project which is far cheaper than the electricity sale price from conventional electricity generation plants. From January 2015 through May 2016, records have continued to fall quickly, and solar electricity prices, which have reached levels below 3 cents/kWh, continue to fall. In August 2016, Chile announced a new record low contract price to provide solar power for $29.10 per megawatt-hour (MWh). In September 2016, Abu Dhabi announced a new record breaking bid price, promising to provide solar power for $24.2 per MWh In October 2017, Saudi Arabia announced a further low contract price to provide solar power for $17.90 per MWh.\n\nWith a carbon price of $50/ton (which would raise the price of coal-fired power by 5c/kWh), solar PV is cost-competitive in most locations. The declining price of PV has been reflected in rapidly growing installations, totaling a worldwide cumulative capacity of 297 GW by end 2016. According to some estimates total investment in renewables for 2011 exceeded investment in carbon-based electricity generation.\n\nIn the case of self consumption, payback time is calculated based on how much electricity is not brought from the grid. Additionally, using PV solar power to charge DC batteries, as used in Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles and Electric Vehicles, leads to greater efficiencies, but higher costs. Traditionally, DC generated electricity from solar PV must be converted to AC for buildings, at an average 10% loss during the conversion. Inverter technology is rapidly improving and current equipment has reached 99% efficiency for small scale residential, while commercial scale three-phase equipment can reach well above 98% efficiency. However, an additional efficiency loss occurs in the transition back to DC for battery driven devices and vehicles, and using various interest rates and energy price changes were calculated to find present values that range from $2,057.13 to $8,213.64 (analysis from 2009).\n\nIt is also possible to combine solar PV with other technologies to make hybrid systems, which enable more stand alone systems. The calculation of LCOEs becomes more complex, but can be done by aggregating the costs and the energy produced by each component. As for example, PV and cogen and batteries while reducing energy- and electricity-related greenhouse gas emissions as compared to conventional sources.\n\nLCOE of solar thermal power with energy storage which can operate round the clock on demand, has fallen to AU$78/MWh (US$61/MWh) in August 2017. Though solar thermal plants with energy storage can work as stand alone systems, combination with solar PV power can deliver further cheaper power. Cheaper and dispatchable solar thermal storage power need not depend on costly or polluting coal/gas/oil/nuclear based power generation for ensuring stable grid operation.\n\nWhen a solar thermal storage plant is forced to idle due to lack of sunlight locally during cloudy days, it is possible to consume the cheap excess infirm power from solar PV, wind and hydro power plants (similar to a lesser efficient, huge capacity and low cost battery storage system) by heating the hot molten salt to higher temperature for converting the stored thermal energy in to electricity during the peak demand hours when the electricity sale price is profitable.\n\nIn the windy great plains expanse of the central United States new-construction wind power costs in 2017 are compellingly below costs of continued use of existing coal burning plants. Wind power can be contracted via a power purchase agreement at two cents per kilowatt hour while the operating costs for power generation in existing coal-burning plants remain above three cents.\n\nIn 2016 the Norwegian Wind Energy Association (NORWEA) estimated the LCoE of a typical Norwegian wind farm at 44 €/MWh, assuming a weighted average cost of capital of 8% and an annual 3,500 full load hours, i.e. a capacity factor of 40%. NORWEA went on to estimate the LCoE of the 1 GW Fosen Vind onshore wind farm which is expected to be operational by 2020 to be as low as 35 €/MWh to 40 €/MWh. In November 2016, Vattenfall won a tender to develop the Kriegers Flak windpark in the Baltic Sea for 49.9 €/MWh, and similar levels were agreed for the Borssele offshore wind farms. As of 2016, this is the lowest projected price for electricity produced using offshore wind.\n\nIn 2004, wind energy cost a fifth of what it did in the 1980s, and some expected that downward trend to continue as larger multi-megawatt turbines were mass-produced. capital costs for wind turbines are substantially lower than 2008–2010 but are still above 2002 levels. A 2011 report from the American Wind Energy Association stated, \"Wind's costs have dropped over the past two years, in the range of 5 to 6 cents per kilowatt-hour recently... about 2 cents cheaper than coal-fired electricity, and more projects were financed through debt arrangements than tax equity structures last year... winning more mainstream acceptance from Wall Street's banks... Equipment makers can also deliver products in the same year that they are ordered instead of waiting up to three years as was the case in previous cycles... 5,600 MW of new installed capacity is under construction in the United States, more than double the number at this point in 2010. 35% of all new power generation built in the United States since 2005 has come from wind, more than new gas and coal plants combined, as power providers are increasingly enticed to wind as a convenient hedge against unpredictable commodity price moves.\"\n\nThis cost has additionally reduced as wind turbine technology has improved. There are now longer and lighter wind turbine blades, improvements in turbine performance and increased power generation efficiency. Also, wind project capital and maintenance costs have continued to decline. For example, the wind industry in the USA in 2014 was able to produce more power at lower cost by using taller wind turbines with longer blades, capturing the faster winds at higher elevations. This opened up new opportunities in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio. The price of power from wind turbines built above the ground can now compete with conventional fossil fuels like coal. Prices have fallen to about 4 cents per kilowatt-hour in some cases and utilities have been increasing the amount of wind energy in their portfolio, saying it is their cheapest option.\n\n"}
{"id": "344406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344406", "title": "Ethnic religion", "text": "Ethnic religion\n\nIn religious studies, an ethnic religion (or indigenous religion) is a religion associated with a particular ethnic group. Ethnic religions are often distinguished from universal religions which claim to not be limited in ethnic or national scope, such as Christianity or Islam or Buddhism or Jainism. Ethnic religions are not only independent religions. Some localised denominations of global religions are practised solely by certain ethnic groups. For example, the Assyrians have a unique denominational structure of Christianity known as the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\nA number of alternative terms have been used instead of \"ethnic\" or \"indigenous\" religions.\n\nThe term \"primal religion\" was coined by Andrew Walls in the University of Aberdeen in the 1970s to provide a focus on non-Western forms of religion as found in Africa, Asia, and Oceania. Terms such as \"primal religion,\" \"primitive religion,\" and \"tribal religion\" have been contested by Walls' student, Jim Cox, who argues that such terms suggest an undeveloped religion which can be seen as a preparation for conversion to Christianity. Cox prefers to use the term \"indigenous religion.\"\n\nAnother term that is often used is \"folk religion.\" While \"ethnic religion\" and \"folk religion\" have overlapping uses, the latter term implies \"the appropriation of religious beliefs and practices at a popular level.\" The term \"folk religion\" can therefore be used to speak of Chinese and African indigenous religions, but can also refer to popular expressions of more multi-national and institutionalized religions such as Folk Christianity or Folk Islam.\n\nEthnic religions are distinctive in their relationship with a particular ethnic group and often in the shaping of one's solidarity with an ethnic identity. Some ethnic religions include Hinduism of the Indians, Judaism of the Jews, Chinese folk religion of the Han Chinese, Shinto of the Japanese, and A ƭat Roog of the Serer of Senegal, The Gambia, and Mauritania. Diasporic groups often maintain ethnic religions as a means of maintaining a distinct ethnic identity, such as Hinduism among diasporic Indians in the Caribbean, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, France, Netherlands, southern and eastern Africa, Mauritius, Fiji, and the Malay Peninsula, or the role of African traditional religion and Afro-American religions among the African diaspora in the Americas.\n\nSome ancient ethnic religions, such as those historically found in pre-modern Europe, have found new vitality in neopaganism. Moreover, non-ethnic religions such as Christianity have been known to assume ethnic traits to an extent that they serve a role as an important ethnic identity marker, a notable example of this is the Serbian \"Saint-Savianism\" of the Serbian Orthodox Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "49682609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49682609", "title": "Family History Research Wiki", "text": "Family History Research Wiki\n\nThe Family History Research Wiki (also known as the FamilySearch Research Wiki or the FamilySearch Wiki) provides handbook reference information, and educational articles to help genealogists find and interpret records of their ancestors.  It is a free-access, free-content, online encyclopedia on a wiki, hosted as part of the FamilySearch site. It is sponsored by FamilySearch, a non-profit organization, and a genealogical arm of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Anyone with access to the Internet may read any of the over 82,850 articles, and almost all articles can be edited by registered users (contributors). Registration is free.\n\nMost of the articles in this Wiki are about a place such as a town, county, state, province, or nation. Such articles suggest how to research records for information about ancestors in that jurisdiction. Every nation worldwide has at least one article. There are more articles for places in the United States, Canada, and Europe. So far, there are comparatively fewer pages for Africa, Asia, Australia, Latin America, or the Pacific Islands.\n\nContributors are invited to add any information about places to help researchers find, use, or better understand an ancestor's records. For example, information about local record idiosyncrasies, record gaps or record-loss, jurisdictional boundary changes, records housed in unusual places, or tips for using the records more effectively, is encouraged. Reference information about local jurisdictions, contact information, record start and stop dates, repositories, social life and customs that affected local record keeping are also welcome.\n\nContent for a place-article may include maps, primary repository contact information, organization date, parent jurisdiction, internal sub-divisions such as towns or counties, boundary changes, record loss if any, neighboring localities, resources, local record types, local migration routes, and other local libraries, archives, societies, or museums.\n\nOther types of pages in Family History Research Wiki are about:\n\nThe Family History Research Wiki is not a database of ancestors' names, photos, family stories, or pedigrees. Nor is it a place for genealogical queries, or message boards—however, it often explains and then links to such sites. Advertising, or product reviews would be inappropriate. Religious doctrines, church policies, and religious images do not belong on the Family History Research Wiki except where they directly impact genealogical research.\n\nThe Family History Library in Salt Lake City has over four thousand branches worldwide called Family History Centers. These centers have volunteer staff who offer free research advice to visitors. To help these volunteers better answer questions about research, a series of \"research outlines\" and other publications by the Family History Library were developed starting about 1988. When the Family History Research Wiki was launched in late 2007, the electronic copies of the old paper publications of the Family History Library were immediately transferred into the wiki to become part of over 162 new articles. Of those articles, 86 were front-page-articles each linked to about 25 closely related topical sub-pages. For example, the front-page \"New Jersey Genealogy\" article was linked directly to the associated New Jersey Biography, New Jersey Cemeteries, and New Jersey Census pages, among others. Much of the early structure and phrasing of the wiki can be attributed to these publications. The old paper \"research outlines\" were the original kernel from which the Family History Research Wiki has grown.\n\nThe Family History Research Wiki was launched 14 December 2007 when the main page was first edited. The wiki began on Plone wiki software. However, it was soon discovered that MediaWiki software would be a better platform, so in January 2008 it was moved to the MediaWiki 1.17.1. In late March 2016 it was moved to a newer, more-stable Wiki platform, WikiMedia 1.23.10, which does not require as much attention from FamilySearch computer engineers.\n\nFollowing the English language edition introduction in late 2007, the Family History Research Wiki has been rolled out in other languages. As of July 2014 it is available in 11 languages:\nLinks to the other language wikis are found at the bottom of the Family History Research Wiki homepage. As of 7 March 2016 the Family History Research Wiki in English had 150,561 registered users who had helped create over 82,858 articles.\n\nThe Family History Research Wiki has over 100 million views per year. During most months it is usually the second-most frequently visited part (out of ten parts) of FamilySearch, its host site. Wider use of this wiki in the genealogical community seems to be growing only slowly. This resource has been discussed by expert how-to-book authors, in periodicals, by instructors at genealogical conferences and classes, on Internet sites, in blogs, and even on talk radio.\n\nJames Tanner in 2014 on his \"Genealogy Star\" blog said the Family History Research Wiki \". . . is the one most valuable genealogical resource on the Web. I make no qualification in making that claim and have repeated it time and time again.\"\n\nChristine Hitchmough in her 2016 lesson \"FamilySearch: Using the Wiki\" explained \"Because no one can be an expert in all localities, records, languages, or ethnic groups, the purpose of the FamilySearch Wiki is to collaborate and share knowledge that is designed to encourage and eventually enable all people, anywhere in the world, to know where to find, how to use, and how to analyze genealogy records.\"\n\nThe Federation of Genealogical Societies in 2014 used their blogtalkradio hour \"mysociety\" to explain how to leverage a society's Internet site by adding a Family History Research Wiki article linking to their society home page.\n\nThe London FamilySearch Centre in the Reading Room at the National Archives near Kew Gardens, England wrote in March 2015, \"The Research Wiki is a work in progress. It relies on members from the genealogical community to help add information to make it grow. YOU are the genealogical community! You may know of a database or information not already listed in the wiki.\"\n\nThe Wiki Governance Council oversees the direction and management of the Family History Research Wiki. Its purpose is to facilitate a valuable and productive experience for all Wiki users.\n\n"}
{"id": "46314411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46314411", "title": "Food in England", "text": "Food in England\n\nFood in England is a 1954 book by the social historian Dorothy Hartley. It is both a cookery book and a history of English cuisine. It was acclaimed on publication; the contemporary critic Harold Nicolson described the book as a classic. It has remained in print ever since.\n\nThe book provides what has been called an idiosyncratic and a combative take on the history of English cooking. The book is unusual as a history in not citing its sources, serving more as an oral social history from Hartley's own experiences as she travelled England as a journalist for the \"Daily Sketch\", interviewing \"the last generation to have had countryside lives sharing something in common with the Tudors.\" The book strikes some readers as principally a history, but it consists mainly of recipes. Some of these such as stargazey pie are old-fashioned, but all are practical recipes that can be cooked.\n\nDorothy Hartley's mother was from Froncysylltau, near Llangollen in North Wales, where the family owned quarries and property. In 1933 Hartley moved to a house in Froncysylltau, where she lived for the rest of her life. It was there that she began work on the book for which she is best known, \"Food in England\", leading to its publication in 1954.\n\nMost of the chapters address aspects of English food, whether types of food such as meat, eggs, fungi, and bread, or ways of dealing with food such as salting, drying and preserving. Some chapters such as 'Elizabethan households' are explicitly historical. Every chapter, however, is also a history. For example, chapter V, Meat, discusses \"a rather interesting mediaeval miracle\" and illustrates a traditional \"Colonial Travelling Meat Safe of Mosquito Net\". The text switches repeatedly from instructions (\"To prepare mutton fat for a mutton piecrust, melt it over a bowl of hot water\") to historical asides (\"Mutton fat was used in the mountain-sheep districts for the same purposes as suet or goose-grease in the valleys\"). Many of the processes are distinctly old-fashioned; thus, Hartley describes basting, dredging, and frothing, switching between the past and present tenses: \"Dredging. This was done between bastings. Thus you dredge with powders or spices to give flavour, or with acid juices, or chopped herbs, which the pouring fat washes down into the crevices of the roasting meat.\"\n\nA substantial part of the text consists of recipes. In the Meat chapter, these begin with recipes for beef, including \"Baron of Beef\", \"Sirloin (Norman-French, \"sur loin\")\", \"Rib of Beef\", \"Boiled Beef with Carrots\", and \"Oat Pudding, for Boiled Beef\". Each recipe has a heading in italics; some have an illustration, drawn by Hartley, or else a quotation or proverb. There is no list of ingredients. The first paragraph often describes the dish or its ingredients. Thus for sirloin, she advises \"This is the best beef joint and should be roasted. Never have the undercut taken out...\". The instructions are given in a few paragraphs: \"Let the sirloin be well hung; dust it lightly with dry mustard, pepper and brown flour to give a crisp crust; bed the fat end well under the lean undercut, and secure in place with string or carefully placed skewer. Roast carefully, basting frequently.\"\n\nWhere quantities or cooking temperatures have to be specified, these are included in the instructions; otherwise, matters are left to the cook's discretion. Thus in \"Spice Sauce (sauce for fish or flesh)\", Hartley directs \"Take a quart of sharp cider, ... some mace, a few cloves, some lemon peel, horse-radish root sliced, some sweet herbs, 6 schaloys [shallots], 8 anchovies, 3 spoonfulls of shred red peppers...\"\n\nFor baking, where exact instructions are needed, these are given in Imperial units, but the oven temperature and timing are again left mainly to the cook's experience. Thus for \"Bath Buns\", she instructs: \"Make a light dough with 1/2 lb. of flour, 1/4 lb. of butter or lard, 1 oz. of castor sugar, 2 eggs, 1/2 pint of lukewarm milk, and about 1.2 oz. of yeast. Rub butter into flour; blend ... Set it to rise in a warm place, ... bake lightly and thoroughly till golden brown.\"\n\n\"Food in England\" has 27 chapters:\n\nThere is a bibliography and an index.\n\nOn its publication in 1954, the book was received with immediate acclaim, and has remained in print ever since. \"The Manchester Guardian\" called it \"fascinating…unusually readable\"; Harold Nicolson in \"The Observer\" said, \"it will become a classic\", though he made gentle fun of the combative Englishness of Hartley's culinary pronouncements.\n\n\"The Sunday Times\", reviewing the seventh edition of the book, wrote \"For food scholarship at its best see Dorothy Hartley's robust, idiosyncratic, irresistible \"Food in England\"... As packed with diverse and fascinating information as a Scotch bun with fruit, this untidy bundle of erudition is held together by the writer's huge enjoyment of her subject, her immense curiosity about everything to do with the growth, preparation, preservation and eating of food in this country since the Middle Ages.\"\n\nThe cultural historian Panikos Panayi describes the book as a tour de force, seminal, and richly illustrated; and he notes that \"Food in England\" is partly a recipe book, partly a history. He contrasts it favourably with Philip Harben's \"Traditional Dishes of Britain\", published a year earlier, which he criticises as accepting the \"stereotypical stalwarts of British food\", whereas Hartley rightly accepts (Panayi quotes) that \"foreign dishes ... like the foreigners, become 'naturalised English'\".\n\nThe historian of food Bee Wilson, rereading \"this endearing work\" 58 years on for \"The Guardian\", wrote that she had remembered it as a history book and an epic account of English cooking, \"interspersed with recipes.\" She was therefore \"startled\" to find that almost the whole of the text is \"taken up with practical recipes and techniques, with very little historical narrative.\" Wilson finds the book as Hartley explicitly intended, an untidy kitchen, \"a warm friendly place\". For Hartley, writes Wilson, \"the past is not a foreign country\", but ever-present. She notes that Hartley \"announces dogmatically\" that English cooking is old-fashioned \"because we like it that way.\" Wilson finds \"Hartley's devotion to archaic recipes such as stargazey pie and posset ... mildly crazed.\" But whether mad or not, Hartley \"approaches the cuisine of the past with the humour and sharpness of a journalist.\"\n\nThe Historic Royal Palaces curator Lucy Worsley presented a BBC film, \"<nowiki></nowiki>'Food in England', The Lost World of Dorothy Hartley\", on 6 November 2015. Worsley, writing in \"The Telegraph\", calls \"Food in England\" \"the definitive history of the way the English eat.\" She describes the book as \"laden with odd facts and folklore ... a curious mixture of cookery, history, anthropology and even magic, ... with her own strong and lively illustrations.\" She admits it is not a conventional history, since Hartley breaks \"the first rule of the historian: to cite her evidence. She wasn't fond of footnotes.\" In a year of filming Hartley's places and people she knew, Worsley discovered that \"my frustration with her technique as historian was misplaced.\" Hartley had travelled continually to gather materials for her weekly \"Daily Sketch\" column, sometimes sleeping rough \"in a hedge.\" The work is thus effectively, Worsley argues, an oral history, as Hartley interviewed \"the last generation to have had countryside lives sharing something in common with the Tudors.\" The emphasis on local, seasonal food chimes well, Worsley suggests, with the modern trend for just those things.\n\nThe Museum of English Rural Life at the University of Reading curates the Dorothy Hartley collection. It cites the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography's entry on Hartley, calling \"Food in England\" \"Arguably her best work, and the one for which she will be remembered\". It calls the book \"as full of magic and potions as any medieval herbal.\"\n"}
{"id": "26339210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26339210", "title": "Gazaro", "text": "Gazaro\n\nGazaro is an internet service corporation focused on tracking and analyzing online prices of electronics.\n\nFor consumers, Gazaro's goal is to provide shoppers with buying advice so that they know when is the best time to buy a particular product. Gazaro analyzes each product it finds and determines whether it is a good deal or not, assigning it a Deal Score between 0 and 10.\n\nFor retailers and manufacturers, Gazaro provides real-time pricing intelligence, price monitoring and analytics delivered from the Gazaro PriceIQ platform give retailers a strategic competitive advantage through insight-driven pricing decisions that help increase conversions, sales, and customer loyalty.\n\nGazaro was founded in 2007 by Sam Zaid and Paul Lem. Gazaro.com was launched in the United States in alpha at TechCrunch50 on September 8, 2008, and opened to the public on March 2, 2009, at DEMO 2009. The Canadian version of Gazaro, Gazaro.ca, was launched on December 3, 2009. Expanding into the mobile space, the company launched its first iPhone app, Gazaro Deals, in December 2009. In 2010, Gazaro launched PriceIQ Price Intelligence, a service offering aimed at retailers and providing real-time price analysis.\n\nGazaro was named a 2010 Startup to Watch by the \"Ottawa Business Journal\", a 2011 Top25 ICT Up and Comer by Branham Group, and was named a finalist for the 2011 TIE50 awards.\n\nIn July 2012, the company formally known as Gazaro, rebranded itself to be known as 360pi. The purpose for this rebranding was due to the company's new focus on the B2B market, and vision to become the trusted price intelligence provider for the world's largest retailers.\n"}
{"id": "16925468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925468", "title": "Gold Drawing Room of the Winter Palace", "text": "Gold Drawing Room of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Gold Drawing Room of the Winter Palace, St Petersburg was one of the rooms of the palace reconstructed following the fire of 1837 by the architect Alexander Briullov. The vaulted ceiling and window embrasures give this large room a cavernous air.\n\nFollowing her marriage in 1841, it became the most formal of the rooms comprising the suite of Tsaritsa Maria Alexandrovna. It was refurbished for her by Andrei Stakenschneider, who employed heavy gilt mouldings for the ceiling and walls in a Byzantine style. The room contains a fireplace of marble and jasper with a mosaic by Etienne Moderni\nToday, as part of the State Hermitage Museum, this room retains its original decoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "34390954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34390954", "title": "Great Greek Encyclopedia", "text": "Great Greek Encyclopedia\n\nThe Great Greek Encyclopedia (Greek: \"Μεγάλη Ελληνική Εγκυκλοπαίδεια\") is a general knowledge Greek-language encyclopedia, printed initially between 1926 and 1934.\n\nThe encyclopedia was founded in 1926 by Pavlos Drandakis (1896–1945) after the model of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". He was helped by many well-known and qualified contributors and the result was deemed to be excellent. Pyrsos, Ltd. was commissioned with printing the encyclopedia. Pavlos Drandakis reserved some rights of the encyclopedia which he later claimed in court. After he won the trial, his descendants published a second edition of the encyclopedia in 1956 with Phoinix, Ltd.\n\nThe encyclopedia consists of 24 volumes, one of which is especially dedicated to Greece. The encyclopedia is known for the extensive use of Katharevousa.\n\n"}
{"id": "45545426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45545426", "title": "Harmonization (standards)", "text": "Harmonization (standards)\n\nIn standards, harmonization is the process of minimizing redundant or conflicting standards which may have evolved independently.\n\nThe concept borrows from the process to harmonize discordant music.\n\nThe goal is to find commonalities, identify critical requirements that need to be retained, and provide a common standard. For businesses, harmonization cuts compliance costs and simplifies the process of meeting requirements. It also reduces complexity for those tasked with testing and auditing standards compliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13306", "title": "History of Islam", "text": "History of Islam\n\nThe history of Islam concerns the political, social, economic and cultural developments of the Islamic civilization. Despite concerns about the reliability of early sources, most historians believe that Islam originated in Mecca and Medina at the start of the 7th century, approximately 600 years after the founding of Christianity. Muslims, however, believe that it did not start with Muhammad, but that it was the original faith of others whom they regard as prophets, such as Jesus, David, Moses, Abraham, Noah and Adam.\n\nIn 610 CE, Muhammad began receiving what Muslims consider to be divine revelations. Muhammad's message won over a handful of followers and was met with increasing opposition from Meccan notables. In 618, after he lost protection with the death of his influential uncle Abu Talib, Muhammad migrated to the city of Yathrib (now known as Medina). With Muhammad's death in 632, disagreement broke out over who would succeed him as leader of the Muslim community which was eventually resurrected leading to the First Fitna. The dispute would intensify greatly after the Battle of Karbala, in which Muhammad's grandson Hussein ibn Ali was killed by the ruling Umayyad Caliph Yazid I, and the outcry for revenge divided the early Islamic community.\n\nBy the 8th century, the Islamic empire extended from Iberia in the west to the Indus river in the east. Polities such as those ruled by the Umayyads (in the Middle East and later in Iberia), Abbasids, Fatimids, and Mamluks were among the most influential powers in the world. The Islamic Golden Age gave rise to many centers of culture and science and produced notable astronomers, mathematicians, doctors and philosophers during the Golden Age of Islam.\n\nIn the early 13th century, the Delhi Sultanate took over northern parts of Indian subcontinent. In the 13th and 14th centuries, destructive Mongol invasions from the East, along with the loss of population in the Black Death, greatly weakened the traditional centers of the Islamic world, stretching from Persia to Egypt, but in the Early Modern period, the Ottomans, the Safavids, and the Mughals were able to create new world powers again. During the 19th and early 20th centuries, most parts of the Muslim world fell under the influence or direct control of European \"Great Powers.\" Their efforts to win independence and build modern nation states over the course of the last two centuries continue to reverberate to the present day.\n\nThe following timeline can serve as a rough visual guide to the most important polities in the Islamic world prior to the First World War. It covers major historical centers of power and culture, including Arabia, Mesopotamia (modern Iraq), Persia (modern Iran), Levant (modern Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Israel/Palestine), Egypt, Maghreb (north-west Africa), al-Andalus (Iberia), Transoxania (Central Asia), Hindustan (including modern Pakistan), and Anatolia (modern Turkey). It is necessarily an approximation, since rule over some regions was sometimes divided among different centers of power, and authority in larger polities was often distributed among several dynasties. For example, during the later stages of the Abbasid Caliphate, even the capital city of Baghdad was effectively ruled by other dynasties such as the Buyyids and the Seljuks, while the Ottomans commonly delegated executive authority over outlying provinces to local potentates, such as the Deys of Algiers, the Beys of Tunis, and the Mamluks of Iraq.\n\nThe study of the earliest periods in Islamic history is made difficult by a lack of sources. For example, the most important historiographical source for the origins of Islam is the work of al-Tabari. While al-Tabari was an excellent historian by the standards of his time and place, use of his work as a source is problematic for two reasons. For one, his style of historical writing permitted liberal use of mythical, legendary, stereotyped, distorted, and polemical presentations of its subject matter. Second, al-Tabari's descriptions of the beginning of Islam post-date the events by a large amount of time, al-Tabari having died in 923.\n\nDiffering views about how to deal with the available sources has led to the development of four different approaches to the history of early Islam. All four methods have some level of support today. The \"descriptive\" method uses the outlines of Islamic traditions, while being adjusted for the stories of miracles and faith-centred claims within those sources. Edward Gibbon and Gustav Weil represent some of the first historians following the descriptive method. On the \"source critical\" method, a comparison of all the sources is sought in order to identify which informants to the sources are weak and thereby distinguish spurious material. The work of William Montgomery Watt and that of Wilferd Madelung are two source critical examples. On the \"tradition critical\" method, the sources are believed to be based on oral traditions with unclear origins and transmission history, and so are treated very cautiously. Ignaz Goldziher was the pioneer of the tradition critical method, and Uri Rubin gives a contemporary example. The \"skeptical\" method doubts nearly all of the material in the traditional sources, regarding any possible historical core as too difficult to decipher from distorted and fabricated material. An early example of the skeptical method was the work of John Wansbrough.\n\nNowadays, the popularity of the different methods employed varies on the scope of the works under consideration. For overview treatments of the history of early Islam, the descriptive approach is more popular. For scholars who look at the beginnings of Islam in depth, the source critical and tradition critical methods are more often followed.\n\nAfter the 8th century, the quality of sources improves. Those sources which treated earlier times with a large temporal and cultural gap now begin to give accounts which are more contemporaneous, the quality of genre of available historical accounts improves, and new documentary sources—such as official documents, correspondence and poetry—appear. For the time prior to the beginning of Islam—in the 6th century—sources are superior as well, if still of mixed quality. In particular, the sources covering the Sasanian realm of influence in the 6th century are poor, while the sources for Byzantine areas at the time are of a respectable quality, and complemented by Syriac Christian sources for Syria and Iraq.\n\nIslam arose within the context of Late Antiquity. The second half of the sixth century saw political disorder in Arabia, and communication routes were no longer secure. Religious divisions played an important role in the crisis. Judaism became the dominant religion of the Himyarite Kingdom in Yemen after about 380, while Christianity took root in the Persian Gulf. While much of Arabia remained polytheistic, in line with broader trends of the age there was yearning for a more spiritual form of religion. Many were reluctant to convert to a foreign faith, but those faiths provided intellectual and spiritual reference points, and Jewish and Christian loanwords from Aramaic began to replace the old pagan vocabulary of Arabic throughout the peninsula. On the eve of the Islamic era, the Quraysh was the chief tribe of Mecca and a dominant force in western Arabia. To counter the effects of anarchy, they upheld the institution of \"sacred months\" when all violence was forbidden and travel was safe. The polytheistic Kaaba shrine in Mecca and the surrounding area was a popular pilgrimage destination, which had significant economic consequences for the city.\n\nAccording to tradition, the Islamic prophet Muhammad was born in Mecca around the year 570. His family belonged to the Quraysh. When he was about forty years old he began receiving what Muslims regard as divine revelations delivered through the angel Gabriel, which would later form the Quran. These inspirations enjoined him to proclaim a strict monotheistic faith, to warn his compatriots of the impending Judgement Day, and to castigate social injustices of his city. Muhammad's message won over a handful of followers and was met with increasing opposition from notables of Mecca. In 618, after he lost protection with the death of his influential uncle Abu Talib, Muhammad took flight to the city of Yathrib (subsequently called Medina) where he was joined by his followers. Later generations would count this event, known as the hijra, as the start of the Islamic era.\n\nIn Yathrib, where he was accepted as an arbitrator among the different communities of the city under the terms of the Constitution of Medina, Muhammad began to lay the foundations of the new Islamic society, with the help of new Quranic verses which provided guidance on matters of law and religious observance. The surahs of this period emphasized his place among the long line of Biblical prophets, but also differentiated the message of the Quran from Christianity and Judaism. Armed conflict with Meccans and Jewish tribes of the Yathrib area soon broke out. After a series of military confrontations and political maneuvers, Muhammad was able to secure control of Mecca and allegiance of the Quraysh in 629. In the time remaining until his death in 632, tribal chiefs across the peninsula entered into various agreements with him, some under terms of alliance, others acknowledging his prophethood and agreeing to follow Islamic practices, including paying the alms levy to his government, which consisted of a number of deputies, an army of believers, and a public treasury. A few months before his death, Muhammad delivered a sermon regarding his succession. The final verse of the Qur'an (Chapter 5, Verse 3) was revealed after Muhammad finished his sermon. After the sermon, Muhammad ordered the Muslims to pledge allegiance to Ali; Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman were among those pledged allegiance to Ali at this event.\n\nAfter Muhammad died, a series of four Caliphs governed the Islamic state: Abu Bakr (632–634), Umar ibn al-Khattab (Umar І, 634–644), Uthman ibn Affan, (644–656), and Ali ibn Abi Talib (656–661). These leaders are known as the \"Rashidun\" or \"rightly guided\" Caliphs in Sunni Islam. They oversaw the initial phase of the Muslim conquests, advancing through Persia, Levant, Egypt, and North Africa.\n\nAfter Muhammad's death, Abu Bakr, one of his closest associates, was chosen as the first caliph ( \"\", lit. successor). Although the office of caliph retained an aura of religious authority, it laid no claim to prophecy. A number of tribal leaders refused to extend agreements made with Muhammad to Abu Bakr, ceasing payments of the alms levy and in some cases claiming to be prophets in their own right. Abu Bakr asserted his authority in a successful military campaign known as the Ridda wars, whose momentum was carried into the lands of the Byzantine and Sasanian empires. By the end of the reign of the second caliph, Umar I, Arab armies, whose battle-hardened ranks were now swelled by the defeated rebels and former imperial auxiliary troops, conquered the Byzantine provinces of Syria and Egypt, while the Sassanids lost their western territories, with the rest to follow soon afterwards.\n\nUmar improved administration of the fledgling empire, ordering improvement of irrigation networks and playing a role in foundation of cities like Basra. To be close to the poor, he lived in a simple mud hut without doors and walked the streets every evening. After consulting with the poor, Umar established the Bayt al-mal, a welfare institution for the Muslim and non-Muslim poor, needy, elderly, orphans, widows, and the disabled. The Bayt al-mal ran for hundreds of years under the Rashidun Caliphate in the 7th century and continued through the Umayyad period and well into the Abbasid era. Umar also introduced child benefit for the children and pensions for the elderly. When he felt that a governor or a commander was becoming attracted to wealth or did not meet the required administrative standards, he had him removed from his position. The expansion was partially halted between 638–639 during the years of great famine and plague in Arabia and Levant, respectively, but by the end of Umar's reign, Syria, Egypt, Mesopotamia, and much of Persia were incorporated into the Islamic State.\n\nLocal populations of Jews and indigenous Christians, who lived as religious minorities and were taxed (while Muslims paid \"Zakat\") to finance the Byzantine–Sassanid Wars, often aided Muslims to take over their lands from the Byzantines and Persians, resulting in exceptionally speedy conquests. As new areas were conquered, they also benefited from free trade with other areas of the growing Islamic state, where, to encourage commerce, taxes were applied to wealth rather than trade. The Muslims paid Zakat on their wealth for the benefit of the poor. Since the Constitution of Medina, drafted by the Islamic prophet Muhammad, the Jews and the Christians continued to use their own laws and had their own judges. To assist in the quick expansion of the state, the Byzantine and the Persian tax collection systems were maintained and the people paid a poll tax lower than the one imposed under the Byzantines and the Persians.\n\nIn 639, Muawiyah I was appointed as the governor of Syria after the previous governor died in a plague along with 25,000 other people. To stop the Byzantine harassment from the sea during the Arab–Byzantine wars, in 649 Muawiyah I set up a navy, manned by Monophysitise Christians, Copts and Jacobite Syrian Christians sailors and Muslim troops, which defeated the Byzantine navy at the Battle of the Masts in 655, opening up the Mediterranean to Muslim ships.\n\nEarly Muslim armies stayed in encampments away from cities because Umar feared that they may get attracted to wealth and luxury, moving away from the worship of God, accumulating wealth and establishing dynasties. Staying in these encampments away from the cities also ensured that there was no stress on the local populations which could remain autonomous. Some of these encampments later grew into cities like Basra and Kufa in Iraq and Fustat in Egypt.\n\nWhen Umar was assassinated in 644, Uthman ibn Affan became the next caliph. As the Arabic language is written without vowels, speakers of different Arabic dialects and other languages recited the Quran with phonetic variations that could alter the meaning of the text. When Uthman ibn Affan became aware of this, he ordered a standard copy of the Quran to be prepared. Begun during his reign, the compilation of the Quran was finished some time between 650 and 656, and copies were sent out to the different centers of the expanding Islamic empire.\n\nThe Quran and Muhammad discussed racial equality and justice (notably in Muhammad's Farewell Sermon), discouraging tribal and nationalistic differences. However, after Muhammad's death, the old tribal differences between the Arabs started to resurface. Following the Roman–Persian Wars and the Byzantine–Sassanid Wars deep-rooted differences between Iraq (formerly under the Persian Sassanid Empire) and Syria (formerly under the Byzantine Empire) also existed. Each wanted the capital of the newly established Islamic State to be in their area.\n\nAs Uthman ibn Affan became very old, Marwan I, a relative of Muawiyah I, slipped into the vacuum, becoming his secretary and slowly assuming more control. When Uthman was assassinated in 656, Ali ibn Abi Talib, a cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad, assumed the position of caliph and moved the capital to Kufa in Iraq. Muawiyah I, the governor of Syria, and Marwan I demanded arrest of the culprits. Marwan I manipulated every one and created conflict, which resulted in the first civil war (the \"First Fitna\"). Ali was assassinated by Kharijites in 661. Six months later in 661, in the interest of peace, Ali's son Hasan, made a peace treaty with Muawiyah I. In the Hasan–Muawiya treaty, Hasan ibn Ali handed over power to Muawiya on the condition that he would be just to the people and not establish a dynasty after his death. Muawiyah subsequently broke the conditions of the agreement and established the Umayyad dynasty, with a capital in Damascus. Husayn ibn Ali, by then Muhammad's only living grandson, refused to swear allegiance to the Umayyads. He was killed in the Battle of Karbala the same year, in an event still mourned by Shia on the Day of Ashura. Unrest, called the Second Fitna continued, but Muslim rule was extended under Muawiyah to Rhodes, Crete, Kabul, Bukhara, and Samarkand, and expanded in North Africa. In 664, Arab armies conquered Kabul, and in 665 pushed into the Maghreb.\n\nThe Umayyad dynasty (or \"Ommiads\"), whose name derives from Umayya ibn Abd Shams, the great-grandfather of the first Umayyad caliph, ruled from 661 to 750. Although the Umayyad family came from the city of Mecca, Damascus was the capital. After the death of Abdu'l-Rahman ibn Abu Bakr in 666, Muawiyah I consolidated his power. Muawiyah I moved his capital to Damascus from Medina, which led to profound changes in the empire. In the same way, at a later date, the transfer of the Caliphate from Damascus to Baghdad marked the accession of a new family to power.\n\nAs the state grew, the state expenses increased. Additionally the Bayt al-mal and the Welfare State expenses to assist the Muslim and the non-Muslim poor, needy, elderly, orphans, widows, and the disabled, increased, the Umayyads asked the new converts (mawali) to continue paying the poll tax. The Umayyad rule, with its wealth and luxury also seemed at odds with the Islamic message preached by Muhammad. All this increased discontent. The descendants of Muhammad's uncle Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib rallied discontented \"mawali\", poor Arabs, and some Shi'a against the Umayyads and overthrew them with the help of the general Abu Muslim, inaugurating the Abbasid dynasty in 750, which moved the capital to Baghdad. A branch of the Ummayad family fled across North Africa to Al-Andalus, where they established the Caliphate of Córdoba, which lasted until 1031 before falling due to the Fitna of al-Andalus. The Bayt al-mal, the Welfare State then continued under the Abbasids.\n\nAt its largest extent, the Umayyad dynasty covered more than making it one of the largest empires the world had yet seen, and the fifth largest contiguous empire ever.\n\nMuawiyah beautified Damascus, and developed a court to rival that of Constantinople. He expanded the frontiers of the empire, reaching the edge of Constantinople at one point, though the Byzantines drove him back and he was unable to hold any territory in Anatolia. Sunni Muslims credit him with saving the fledgling Muslim nation from post-civil war anarchy. However, Shia Muslims accuse him of instigating the war, weakening the Muslim nation by dividing the Ummah, fabricating self-aggrandizing heresies slandering the Prophet's family and even selling his Muslim critics into slavery in the Byzantine empire. One of Muawiyah's most controversial and enduring legacies was his decision to designate his son Yazid as his successor. According to Shi'a doctrine, this was a clear violation of the treaty he made with Hasan ibn Ali.\nIn 682, Yazid restored Uqba ibn Nafi as the governor of North Africa. Uqba won battles against the Berbers and Byzantines. From there Uqba marched thousands of miles westward towards Tangier, where he reached the Atlantic coast, and then marched eastwards through the Atlas Mountains. With about 300 cavalrymen, he proceeded towards Biskra where he was ambushed by a Berber force under Kaisala. Uqba and all his men died fighting. The Berbers attacked and drove Muslims from north Africa for a period. Weakened by the civil wars, the Umayyad lost supremacy at sea, and had to abandon the islands of Rhodes and Crete. Under the rule of Yazid I, some Muslims in Kufa began to think that if Husayn ibn Ali the descendent of Muhammad was their ruler, he would have been more just. He was invited to Kufa but was later betrayed and killed. Imam Husain's son, Imam Ali ibn Husain, was imprisoned along with Husain's sister and other ladies left in Karbala war. Due to opposition by public they were later released and allowed to go to their native place Medina. One Imam after another continued in the generation of Imam Husain but they were opposed by the Caliphs of the day as their rivals till Imam Abdullah al-Mahdi Billah came in power as first Caliph of Fatimid in North Africa when Caliphate and Imamate came to same person again after Imam Ali. These Imams were recognized by Shia Islam taking Imam Ali as first Caliph/ Imam and the same is institutionalised by the Safavids and many similar institutions named now as Ismaili, Twelver etc.\n\nThe period under Muawiya II was marked by civil wars (Second Fitna). This would ease in the reign of Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan, a well-educated and capable ruler. Despite the many political problems that impeded his rule, all important records were translated into Arabic. In his reign, a currency for the Muslim world was minted. This led to war with the Byzantine Empire under Justinian II (Battle of Sebastopolis) in 692 in Asia Minor. The Byzantines were decisively defeated by the Caliph after the defection of a large contingent of Slavs. The Islamic currency was then made the exclusive currency in the Muslim world. He reformed agriculture and commerce. Abd al-Malik consolidated Muslim rule and extended it, made Arabic the state language, and organized a regular postal service.\nAl-Walid I began the next stage of Islamic conquests. Under him the early Islamic empire reached its farthest extent. He reconquered parts of Egypt from the Byzantine Empire and moved on into Carthage and across to the west of North Africa. Muslim armies under Tariq ibn Ziyad crossed the Strait of Gibraltar and began to conquer the Iberian Peninsula using North African Berber armies. The Visigoths of the Iberian Peninsula were defeated when the Umayyad conquered Lisbon. The Iberian Peninsula was the farthest extent of Islamic control of Europe (they were stopped at the Battle of Tours). In the east, Islamic armies under Muhammad bin Qasim made it as far as the Indus Valley. Under Al-Walid, the caliphate empire stretched from the Iberian Peninsula to India. Al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf played a crucial role in the organization and selection of military commanders. Al-Walid paid great attention to the expansion of an organized military, building the strongest navy in the Umayyad era., This tactic was crucial for the expansion to the Iberian Peninsula. His reign is considered to be the apex of Islamic power.\n\nSulayman ibn Abd al-Malik was hailed as caliph the day al-Walid died. He appointed Yazid ibn al-Muhallab governor of Mesopotamia. Sulayman ordered the arrest and execution of the family of al-Hajjaj, one of two prominent leaders (the other was Qutayba ibn Muslim) who had supported the succession of al-Walid's son Yazid, rather than Sulayman. Al-Hajjaj had predeceased al-Walid, so he posed no threat. Qutaibah renounced allegiance to Sulayman, though his troops rejected his appeal to revolt. They killed him and sent his head to Sulayman. Sulayman did not move to Damascus on becoming Caliph, remaining in Ramla. Sulayman sent Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik to attack the Byzantine capital (siege of Constantinople). The intervention of Bulgaria on the Byzantine side proved decisive. The Muslims sustained heavy losses. Sulayman died suddenly in 717.\n\nYazid II came to power on the death of Umar II. Yazid fought the Kharijites, with whom Umar had been negotiating, and killed the Kharijite leader Shawdhab. In Yazid's reign, civil wars began in different parts of the empire. Yazid expanded the Caliphate's territory into the Caucasus, before dying in 724. Inheriting the caliphate from his brother, Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik ruled an empire with many problems. He was effective in addressing these problems, and in allowing the Umayyad empire to continue as an entity. His long rule was an effective one, and renewed reforms introduced by Umar II. Under Hisham's rule, regular raids against the Byzantines continued. In North Africa, Kharijite teachings combined with local restlessness to produce the Berber Revolt. He was also faced with a revolt by Zayd ibn Ali. Hisham suppressed both revolts. The Abbasids continued to gain power in Khurasan and Iraq. However, they were not strong enough to make a move yet. Some were caught and punished or executed by eastern governors. The Battle of Akroinon, a decisive Byzantine victory, was during the final campaign of the Umayyad dynasty. Hisham died in 743.\n\nAl-Walid II saw political intrigue during his reign. Yazid III spoke out against his cousin Walid's \"immorality\" which included discrimination on behalf of the Banu Qays Arabs against Yemenis and non-Arab Muslims, and Yazid received further support from the Qadariya and Murji'iya (believers in human free will). Walid was shortly thereafter deposed in a coup. Yazid disbursed funds from the treasury and acceded to the Caliph. He explained that he had rebelled on behalf of the Book of Allah and the Sunna. Yazid reigned for only six months, while various groups refused allegiance and dissident movements arose, after which he died. Ibrahim ibn al-Walid, named heir apparent by his brother Yazid III, ruled for a short time in 744, before he abdicated. Marwan II ruled from 744 until he was killed in 750. He was the last Umayyad ruler to rule from Damascus. Marwan named his two sons Ubaydallah and Abdallah heirs. He appointed governors and asserted his authority by force. Anti-Umayyad feeling was very prevalent, especially in Iran and Iraq. The Abbasids had gained much support. Marwan's reign as caliph was almost entirely devoted to trying to keep the Umayyad empire together. His death signalled the end of Umayyad rule in the East, and was followed by the massacre of Umayyads by the Abbasids. Almost the entire Umayyad dynasty was killed, except for the talented prince Abd al-Rahman who escaped to the Iberian Peninsula and founded a dynasty there.\n\nThe Abbasid dynasty rose to power in 750, consolidating the gains of the earlier Caliphates. Initially, they conquered Mediterranean islands including the Balearics and, after, in 827 the Sicily. The ruling party had come to power on the wave of dissatisfaction with the Umayyads, cultivated by the Abbasid revolutionary Abu Muslim. Under the Abbasids Islamic civilization flourished. Most notable was the development of Arabic prose and poetry, termed by \"The Cambridge History of Islam\" as its \"golden age\". Commerce and industry (considered a Muslim Agricultural Revolution) and the arts and sciences (considered a Muslim Scientific Revolution) also prospered under Abbasid caliphs al-Mansur (ruled 754–775), Harun al-Rashid (ruled 786–809), al-Ma'mun (ruled 809–813) and their immediate successors.\n\nThe capital was moved from Damascus to Baghdad, due to the importance placed by the Abbasids upon eastern affairs in Persia and Transoxania. At this time the caliphate showed signs of fracture amid the rise of regional dynasties. Although the Umayyad family had been killed by the revolting Abbasids, one family member, Abd ar-Rahman I, escaped to Spain and established an independent caliphate there in 756. In the Maghreb, Harun al-Rashid appointed the Arab Aghlabids as virtually autonomous rulers, although they continued to recognise central authority. Aghlabid rule was short-lived, and they were deposed by the Shiite Fatimid dynasty in 909. By around 960, the Fatimids had conquered Abbasid Egypt, building a capital there in 973 called \"al-Qahirah\" (meaning \"the planet of victory\", known today as Cairo). In Persia the Turkic Ghaznavids snatched power from the Abbasids. Abbasid influence had been consumed by the Great Seljuq Empire (a Muslim Turkish clan which had migrated into mainland Persia) by 1055.\n\nExpansion continued, sometimes by force, sometimes by peaceful proselytising. The first stage in the conquest of India began just before the year 1000. By some 200 (from 1193–1209) years later, the area up to the Ganges river had fallen. In sub-Saharan West Africa, Islam was established just after the year 1000. Muslim rulers were in Kanem starting from sometime between 1081 and 1097, with reports of a Muslim prince at the head of Gao as early as 1009. The Islamic kingdoms associated with Mali reached prominence in the 13th century.\n\nThe Abbasids developed initiatives aimed at greater Islamic unity. Different sects of the Islamic faith and mosques, separated by doctrine, history, and practice, were pushed to cooperate. The Abbasids also distinguished themselves from the Umayyads by attacking the Umayyads' moral character and administration. According to Ira Lapidus, \"The Abbasid revolt was supported largely by Arabs, mainly the aggrieved settlers of Marw with the addition of the Yemeni faction and their Mawali\". The Abbasids also appealed to non-Arab Muslims, known as \"mawali\", who remained outside the kinship-based society of the Arabs and were perceived as a lower class within the Umayyad empire. Islamic ecumenism, promoted by the Abbasids, refers to the idea of unity of the \"Ummah\" in the literal meaning: that there was a single faith. Islamic philosophy developed as the Shariah was codified, and the four Madhabs were established. This era also saw the rise of classical Sufism. Religious achievements included completion of the canonical collections of Hadith of Sahih Bukhari and others. Islam recognized to a certain extent the validity of the Abrahamic religions, the Quran identifying Jews, Christians, Zoroastrians, and \"Sabi'un\" or \"baptists\" (usually taken as a reference to the Mandeans and related Mesopotamian groups) as \"people of the book\". Toward the beginning of the high Middle Ages, the doctrines of the Sunni and Shia, two major denominations of Islam, solidified and the divisions of the world theologically would form. These trends would continue into the Fatimid and Ayyubid periods.\n\nPolitically, the Abbasid Caliphate evolved into an Islamic monarchy (unitary system of government.) The regional Sultanate and Emirate governors' existence, validity, or legality were acknowledged for unity of the state. In the early Islamic philosophy of the Iberian Umayyads, Averroes presented an argument in \"The Decisive Treatise\", providing a justification for the emancipation of science and philosophy from official Ash'ari theology; thus, Averroism has been considered a precursor to modern secularism.\n\n\"Early Middle Ages\"\n\nAccording to Arab sources in the year 750, Al-Saffah, the founder of the Abbasid Caliphate, launched a massive rebellion against the Umayyad Caliphate from the province of Khurasan near Talas. After eliminating the entire Umayyad family and achieving victory at the Battle of the Zab, Al-Saffah and his forces marched into Damascus and founded a new dynasty. His forces confronted many regional powers and consolidated the realm of the Abbasid Caliphate.\n\nIn Al-Mansur's time, Persian scholarship emerged. Many non-Arabs converted to Islam. The Umayyads actively discouraged conversion in order to continue the collection of the jizya, or the tax on non-Muslims. Islam nearly doubled within its territory from 8% of residents in 750 to 15% by the end of Al-Mansur's reign. Al-Mahdi, whose name means \"Rightly-guided\" or \"Redeemer\", was proclaimed caliph when his father was on his deathbed. Baghdad blossomed during Al-Mahdi's reign, becoming the world's largest city. It attracted immigrants from Arabia, Iraq, Syria, Persia and as far away as India and Spain. Baghdad was home to Christians, Jews, Hindus, and Zoroastrians, in addition to the growing Muslim population. Like his father, Al-Hadi was open to his people and allowed citizens to address him in the palace at Baghdad. He was considered an \"enlightened ruler\", and continued the policies of his Abbasid predecessors. His short rule was plagued by military conflicts and internal intrigue.\n\nThe military conflicts subsided as Harun al-Rashid ruled. His reign was marked by scientific, cultural and religious prosperity. He established the library Bayt al-Hikma (\"House of Wisdom\"), and the arts and music flourished during his reign. The Barmakid family played a decisive advisorial role in establishing the Caliphate, but declined during Rashid's rule.\n\nAl-Amin received the Caliphate from his father Harun Al-Rashid, but failed to respect the arrangements made for his brothers, leading to the Fourth Fitna. Al-Ma'mun's general Tahir ibn Husayn took Baghdad, executing Al-Amin. The war led to a loss of prestige for the dynasty.\n\nThe Abbasids soon became caught in a three-way rivalry among Coptic Arabs, Indo-Persians, and immigrant Turks. In addition, the cost of running a large empire became too great. The Turks, Egyptians, and Arabs adhered to the Sunnite sect; the Persians, a great portion of the Turkic groups, and several of the princes in India were Shia. The political unity of Islam began to disintegrate. Under the influence of the Abbasid caliphs, independent dynasties appeared in the Muslim world and the caliphs recognized such dynasties as legitimately Muslim. The first was the Tahirid dynasty in Khorasan, which was founded during the caliph Al-Ma'mun's reign. Similar dynasties included the Saffarids, Samanids, Ghaznavids and Seljuqs. During this time, advancements were made in the areas of astronomy, poetry, philosophy, science, and mathematics.\n\n\"Early Middle Ages\"\n\nUpon Al-Amin's death, Al-Ma'mun became Caliph. Al-Ma'mun extended the Abbasid empire's territory during his reign and dealt with rebellions. Al-Ma'mun had been named governor of Khurasan by Harun, and after his ascension to power, the caliph named Tahir as governor of his military services in order to assure his loyalty. Tahir and his family became entrenched in Iranian politics and became powerful, frustrating Al-Ma'mun's desire to centralize and strengthen Caliphal power. The rising power of the Tahirid dynasty became a threat as Al-Ma'mun's own policies alienated them and other opponents.\n\nAl-Ma'mun worked to centralize power and ensure a smooth succession. Al-Mahdi proclaimed that the caliph was the protector of Islam against heresy, and also claimed the ability to declare orthodoxy. Religious scholars averred that Al-Ma'mun was overstepping his bounds in the \"Mihna\", the Abbasid inquisition which he introduced in 833 four months before he died. The \"Ulama\" emerged as a force in Islamic politics during Al-Ma'mun's reign for opposing the inquisitions. The \"Ulema\" and the major Islamic law schools took shape in the period of Al-Ma'mun. In parallel, Sunnism became defined as a religion of laws. Doctrinal differences between Sunni and Shi'a Islam became more pronounced.\n\nDuring the Al-Ma'mun regime, border wars increased. Al-Ma'mun made preparations for a major campaign, but died while leading an expedition in Sardis. Al-Ma'mun gathered scholars of many religions at Baghdad, whom he treated well and with tolerance. He sent an emissary to the Byzantine Empire to collect the most famous manuscripts there, and had them translated into Arabic. His scientists originated alchemy. Shortly before his death, during a visit to Egypt in 832, the caliph ordered the breaching of the Great Pyramid of Giza to search for knowledge and treasure. Workers tunneled in near where tradition located the original entrance. Al-Ma'mun later died near Tarsus under questionable circumstances and was succeeded by his half-brother, Al-Mu'tasim, rather than his son, Al-Abbas ibn Al-Ma'mun.\n\nAs Caliph, Al-Mu'tasim promptly ordered the dismantling of al-Ma'mun's military base at Tyana. He faced Khurramite revolts. One of the most difficult problems facing this Caliph was the ongoing uprising of Babak Khorramdin. Al-Mu'tasim overcame the rebels and secured a significant victory. Byzantine emperor Theophilus launched an attack against Abbasid fortresses. Al-Mu'tasim sent Al-Afshin, who met and defeated Theophilus' forces at the Battle of Anzen. On his return he became aware of a serious military conspiracy which forced him and his successors to rely upon Turkish commanders and ghilman slave-soldiers (foreshadowing the Mamluk system). The Khurramiyyah were never fully suppressed, although they slowly declined during the reigns of succeeding Caliphs. Near the end of al-Mu'tasim's life there was an uprising in Palestine, but he defeated the rebels.\n\nDuring Al-Mu'tasim's reign, the Tahirid dynasty continued to grow in power. The Tahirids were exempted from many tribute and oversight functions. Their independence contributed to Abbasid decline in the east. Ideologically, al-Mu'tasim followed his half-brother al-Ma'mun. He continued his predecessor's support for the Islamic Mu'tazila sect, applying brutal torture against the opposition. Arab mathematician Al-Kindi was employed by Al-Mu'tasim and tutored the Caliph's son. Al-Kindi had served at the House of Wisdom and continued his studies in Greek geometry and algebra under the caliph's patronage.\n\nAl-Wathiq succeeded his father. Al-Wathiq dealt with opposition in Arabia, Syria, Palestine and in Baghdad. Using a famous sword he personally joined the execution of the Baghdad rebels. The revolts were the result of an increasingly large gap between Arab populations and the Turkish armies. The revolts were put down, but antagonism between the two groups grew, as Turkish forces gained power. He also secured a captive exchange with the Byzantines. Al-Wathiq was a patron of scholars, as well as artists. He personally had musical talent and is reputed to have composed over one hundred songs.\nWhen Al-Wathiq died of high fever, Al-Mutawakkil succeeded him. Al-Mutawakkil's reign is remembered for many reforms and is viewed as a golden age. He was the last great Abbasid caliph; after his death the dynasty fell into decline. Al-Mutawakkil ended the Mihna. Al-Mutawakkil built the Great Mosque of Samarra as part of an extension of Samarra eastwards. During his reign, Al-Mutawakkil met famous Byzantine theologian Constantine the Philosopher, who was sent to strengthen diplomatic relations between the Empire and the Caliphate by Emperor Michael III. Al-Mutawakkil involved himself in religious debates, as reflected in his actions against minorities. The Shīʻi faced repression embodied in the destruction of the shrine of Hussayn ibn ʻAlī, an action that was ostensibly carried out to stop pilgrimages. Al-Mutawakkil continued to rely on Turkish statesmen and slave soldiers to put down rebellions and lead battles against foreign empires, notably capturing Sicily from the Byzantines. Al-Mutawakkil was assassinated by a Turkish soldier.\n\nAl-Muntasir succeeded to the Caliphate on the same day with the support of the Turkish faction, though he was implicated in the murder. The Turkish party had al-Muntasir remove his brothers from the line of succession, fearing revenge for the murder of their father. Both brothers wrote statements of abdication. During his reign, Al-Muntasir removed the ban on pilgrimage to the tombs of Hassan and Hussayn and sent Wasif to raid the Byzantines. Al-Muntasir died of unknown causes. The Turkish chiefs held a council to select his successor, electing Al-Musta'in. The Arabs and western troops from Baghdad were displeased at the choice and attacked. However, the Caliphate no longer depended on Arabian choice, but depended on Turkish support. After the failed Muslim campaign against the Christians, people blamed the Turks for bringing disaster on the faith and murdering their Caliphs. After the Turks besieged Baghdad, Al-Musta'in planned to abdicate to Al-Mu'tazz but was put to death by his order. Al-Mu'tazz was enthroned by the Turks, becoming the youngest Abbasaid Caliph to assume power.\nAl-Mu'tazz proved too apt a pupil of his Turkish masters, but was surrounded by parties jealous of each other. At Samarra, the Turks were having problems with the \"Westerns\" (Berbers and Moors), while the Arabs and Persians at Baghdad, who had supported al-Musta'in, regarded both with equal hatred. Al-Mu'tazz put his brothers Al-Mu'eiyyad and Abu Ahmed to death. The ruler spent recklessly, causing a revolt of Turks, Africans, and Persians for their pay. Al-Mu'tazz was brutally deposed shortly thereafter. Al-Muhtadi became the next Caliph. He was firm and virtuous compared to the earlier Caliphs, though the Turks held the power. The Turks killed him soon after his ascension. Al-Mu'tamid followed, holding on for 23 years, though he was largely a ruler in name only. After the Zanj Rebellion, Al-Mu'tamid summoned al-Muwaffak to help him. Thereafter, Al-Muwaffaq ruled in all but name. The Hamdanid dynasty was founded by Hamdan ibn Hamdun when he was appointed governor of Mardin in Anatolia by the Caliphs in 890. Al-Mu'tamid later transferred authority to his son, al-Mu'tadid, and never regained power. The Tulunids became the first independent state in Islamic Egypt, when they broke away during this time.\n\nAl-Mu'tadid ably administered the Caliphate. Egypt returned to allegiance and Mesopotamia was restored to order. He was tolerant towards Shi'i, but toward the Umayyad community he was not so just. Al-Mu'tadid was cruel in his punishments, some of which are not surpassed by those of his predecessors. For example, the Kharijite leader at Mosul was paraded about Baghdad clothed in a robe of silk, of which Kharijites denounced as sinful, and then crucified. Upon Al-Mu'tadid's death, his son by a Turkish slave-girl, Al-Muktafi, succeeded to the throne.\n\nAl-Muktafi became a favorite of the people for his generosity, and for abolishing his father's secret prisons, the terror of Baghdad. During his reign, the Caliphate overcame threats such as the Carmathians. Upon Al-Muktafi's death, the vazir next chose Al-Muqtadir. Al-Muqtadir's reign was a constant succession of thirteen Vazirs, one rising on the fall or assassination of another. His long reign brought the Empire to its lowest ebb. Africa was lost, and Egypt nearly. Mosul threw off its dependence, and the Greeks raided across the undefended border. The East continued to formally recognise the Caliphate, including those who virtually claimed independence.\n\nAt the end of the Early Baghdad Abbasids period, Empress Zoe Karbonopsina pressed for an armistice with Al-Muqtadir and arranged for the ransom of the Muslim prisoner while the Byzantine frontier was threatened by Bulgarians. This only added to Baghdad's disorder. Though despised by the people, Al-Muqtadir was again placed in power after upheavals. Al-Muqtadir was eventually slain outside the city gates, whereupon courtiers chose his brother al-Qahir. He was even worse. Refusing to abdicate, he was blinded and cast into prison.\n\nHis son Ar-Radi took over only to experience a cascade of misfortune. Praised for his piety, he became the tool of the de facto ruling Minister, Ibn Raik (\"amir al-umara\"; 'Amir of the Amirs'). Ibn Raik held the reins of government and his name was joined with the Caliph's in public prayers. Around this period, the Hanbalis, supported by popular sentiment, set up in fact a kind of 'Sunni inquisition'. Ar-Radi is commonly regarded as the last of the real Caliphs: the last to deliver orations at the Friday service, to hold assemblies, to commune with philosophers, to discuss the questions of the day, to take counsel on the affairs of State; to distribute alms, or to temper the severity of cruel officers. Thus ended the Early Baghdad Abbasids.\n\nIn the late mid-930s, the Ikhshidids of Egypt carried the Arabic title \"Wali\" reflecting their position as governors on behalf of the Abbasids, The first governor (Muhammad bin Tughj Al-Ikhshid) was installed by the Abbasid Caliph. They gave him and his descendants the Wilayah for 30 years. The last name Ikhshid is Soghdian for \"prince\".\n\nAlso in the 930s, ‘Alī ibn Būyah and his two younger brothers, al-Hassan and Aḥmad founded the Būyid confederation. Originally a soldier in the service of the Ziyārīds of Ṭabaristān, ‘Alī was able to recruit an army to defeat a Turkish general from Baghdad named Yāqūt in 934. Over the next nine years the three brothers gained control of the remainder of the caliphate, while accepting the titular authority of the caliph in Baghdad. The Būyids made large territorial gains. Fars and Jibal were conquered. Central Iraq submitted in 945, before the Būyids took Kermān (967), Oman (967), the Jazīra (979), Ṭabaristān (980), and Gorgan (981). After this the Būyids went into slow decline, with pieces of the confederation gradually breaking off and local dynasties under their rule becoming \"de facto\" independent.\n\n\"Early High Middle Ages\"\n\nAt the beginning of the Middle Baghdad Abbasids, the Caliphate had become of little importance. The \"amir al-umara\" Bajkam contented himself with dispatching his secretary to Baghdad to assemble local dignitaries to elect a successor. The choice fell on Al-Muttaqi. Bajkam was killed on a hunting party by marauding Kurds. In the ensuing anarchy in Baghdad, Ibn Raik persuaded the Caliph to flee to Mosul where he was welcomed by the Hamdanids. They assassinated Ibn Raik. Hamdanid Nasir al-Dawla advanced on Baghdad, where mercenaries and well-organised Turks repelled them. Turkish general Tuzun became \"amir al-umara\". The Turks were staunch Sunnis. A fresh conspiracy placed the Caliph in danger. Hamdanid troops helped ad-Daula escape to Mosul and then to Nasibin. Tuzun and the Hamdanid were stalemated. Al-Muttaqi was at Raqqa, moving to Tuzun where he was deposed. Tuzun installed the blinded Caliph's cousin as successor, with the title of Al-Mustakfi. With the new Caliph, Tuzun attacked the Buwayhid dynasty and the Hamdanids. Soon after, Tuzun died, and was succeeded by one of his generals, Abu Ja'far. The Buwayhids then attacked Baghdad, and Abu Ja'far fled into hiding with the Caliph. Buwayhid Sultan Muiz ud-Daula assumed command forcing the Caliph into abject submission to the Amir. Eventually, Al-Mustakfi was blinded and deposed. The city fell into chaos, and the Caliph's palace was looted.\nOnce the Buwayhids controlled Baghdad, Al-Muti became caliph. The office was shorn of real power and Shi'a observances were established. The Buwayhids held on Baghdad for over a century. Throughout the Buwayhid reign the Caliphate was at its lowest ebb, but was recognized religiously, except in Iberia. Buwayhid Sultan Mu'izz al-Dawla was prevented from raising a Shi'a Caliph to the throne by fear for his own safety, and fear of rebellion, in the capital and beyond.\n\nThe next Caliph, Al-Ta'i, reigned over factional strife in Syria among the Fatimids, Turks, and Carmathians. The Hideaway dynasyty also fractured. The Abbasid borders were the defended only by small border states. Baha' al-Dawla, the Buyid amir of Iraq, deposed al-Ta'i in 991 and proclaimed al-Qadir the new caliph.\n\nDuring al-Qadir's Caliphate, Mahmud of Ghazni looked after the empire. Mahmud of Ghazni, of Eastern fame, was friendly towards the Caliphs, and his victories in the Indian Empire were accordingly announced from the pulpits of Baghdad in grateful and glowing terms. Al-Qadir fostered the Sunni struggle against Shiʿism and outlawed heresies such as the Baghdad Manifesto and the doctrine that the Quran was created. He outlawed the Muʿtazila, bringing an end to the development of rationalist Muslim philosophy. During this and the next period, Islamic literature, especially Persian literature, flourished under the patronage of the Buwayhids. By 1000, the global Muslim population had climbed to about 4 percent of the world, compared to the Christian population of 10 percent.\n\nDuring Al-Qa'im's reign, the Buwayhid ruler often fled the capital and the Seljuq dynasty gained power. Toghrül overran Syria and Armenia. He then made his way into the Capital, where he was well-received both by chiefs and people. In Bahrain, the Qarmatian state collapsed in Al-Hasa. Arabia recovered from the Fatimids and again acknowledged the spiritual jurisdiction of the Abbasids. Al-Muqtadi was honored by the Seljuq Sultan Malik-Shah I, during whose reign the Caliphate was recognized throughout the extending range of Seljuq conquest. The Sultan was critical of the Caliph's interference in affairs of state, but died before deposing the last of the Middle Baghdad Abbasids.\n\n\"Late High Middle Ages\"\n\nThe Late Baghdad Abbasids reigned from the beginning of the Crusades to the Seventh Crusade. The first Caliph was Al-Mustazhir. He was politically irrelevant, despite civil strife at home and the First Crusade in Syria. Raymond IV of Toulouse attempted to attack Baghdad, losing at the Battle of Manzikert. The global Muslim population climbed to about 5 per cent as against the Christian population of 11 per cent by 1100. Jerusalem was captured by crusaders who massacred its inhabitants. Preachers travelled throughout the caliphate proclaiming the tragedy and rousing men to recover the Al-Aqsa Mosque from the \"Franks\" (European Crusaders). Crowds of exiles rallied for war against the infidel. Neither the Sultan nor the Caliph sent an army west.\n\nAl-Mustarshid achieved more independence while the sultan Mahmud II of Great Seljuq was engaged in war in the East. The Banu Mazyad (Mazyadid State) general, Dubays ibn Sadaqa (emir of Al-Hilla), plundered Bosra and attacked Baghdad together with a young brother of the sultan, Ghiyath ad-Din Mas'ud. Dubays was crushed by a Seljuq army under Zengi, founder of the Zengid dynasty. Mahmud's death was followed by a civil war between his son Dawud, his nephew Mas'ud and the atabeg Toghrul II. Zengi was recalled to the East, stimulated by the Caliph and Dubays, where he was beaten. The Caliph then laid siege to Mosul for three months without success, resisted by Mas'ud and Zengi. It was nonetheless a milestone in the caliphate's military revival.\n\nAfter the siege of Damascus (1134), Zengi undertook operations in Syria. Al-Mustarshid attacked sultan Mas'ud of western Seljuq and was taken prisoner. He was later found murdered. His son, Al-Rashid failed to gain independence from Seljuq Turks. Zengi, because of the murder of Dubays, set up a rival Sultanate. Mas'ud attacked; the Caliph and Zengi, hopeless of success, escaped to Mosul. The Sultan regained power, a council was held, the Caliph was deposed, and his uncle, son of Al-Muqtafi, appointed as the new Caliph. Ar-Rashid fled to Isfahan and was killed by Hashshashins.\n\nContinued disunion and contests between Seljuq Turks allowed al-Muqtafi to maintain control in Baghdad and to extend it throughout Iraq. In 1139, al-Muqtafi granted protection to the Nestorian patriarch Abdisho III. While the Crusade raged, the Caliph successfully defended Baghdad against Muhammad II of Seljuq in the Siege of Baghdad (1157). The Sultan and the Caliph dispatched men in response to Zengi's appeal, but neither the Seljuqs, nor the Caliph, nor their Amirs, dared resist the Crusaders.\n\nThe next caliph, Al-Mustanjid, saw Saladin extinguish the Fatimid dynasty after 260 years, and thus the Abbasids again prevailed. Al-Mustadi reigned when Saladin become the sultan of Egypt and declared allegiance to the Abbasids.\n\nAn-Nasir, \"The Victor for the Religion of God\", attempted to restore the Caliphate to its ancient dominant role. He consistently held Iraq from Tikrit to the Gulf without interruption. His forty-seven year reign was chiefly marked by ambitious and corrupt dealings with the Tartar chiefs, and by his hazardous invocation of the Mongols, which ended his dynasty. His son, Az-Zahir, was Caliph for a short period before his death and An-Nasir's grandson, Al-Mustansir, was made caliph.\n\nAl-Mustansir founded the Mustansiriya Madrasah. In 1236 Ögedei Khan commanded to raise up Khorassan and populated Herat. The Mongol military governors mostly made their camp in Mughan plain, Azerbaijan. The rulers of Mosul and Cilician Armenia surrendered. Chormaqan divided the Transcaucasia region into three districts based on military hierarchy. In Georgia, the population were temporarily divided into eight tumens. By 1237 the Mongol Empire had subjugated most of Persia, excluding Abbasid Iraq and Ismaili strongholds, and all of Afghanistan and Kashmir.\n\nAl-Musta'sim was the last Abbasid Caliph in Baghdad and is noted for his opposition to the rise of Shajar al-Durr to the Egyptian throne during the Seventh Crusade. To the east, Mongol forces under Hulagu Khan swept through the Transoxiana and Khorasan. Baghdad was sacked and the caliph deposed soon afterwards. The Mamluk sultans and Syria later appointed a powerless Abbasid Caliph in Cairo.\n\n\"Abbasid \"shadow\" caliph of Cairo\"\n\"Late Middle Ages\"\n\nThe Abbasid \"shadow\" caliph of Cairo reigned under the tutelage of the Mamluk sultans and nominal rulers used to legitimize the actual rule of the Mamluk sultans. All the Cairene Abbasid caliphs who preceded or succeeded Al-Musta'in were spiritual heads lacking any temporal power. Al-Musta'in was the only Cairo-based Abbasid caliph to even briefly hold political power. Al-Mutawakkil III was the last \"shadow\" caliph. In 1517, Ottoman sultan Selim I defeated the Mamluk Sultanate, and made Egypt part of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Fatimids originated in Ifriqiya (modern-day Tunisia and eastern Algeria). The dynasty was founded in 909 by ʻAbdullāh al-Mahdī Billah, who legitimised his claim through descent from Muhammad by way of his daughter Fātima as-Zahra and her husband ʻAlī ibn-Abī-Tālib, the first Shīʻa Imām, hence the name \"al-Fātimiyyūn\" \"Fatimid\". The Fatamids and the Zaydis at the time, used the Hanafi jurisprudence, as did most Sunnis.\n\nAbdullāh al-Mahdi's control soon extended over all of central Maghreb, an area consisting of the modern countries of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya, which he ruled from Mahdia, his capital in Tunisia.\n\nThe Fatimids entered Egypt in the late 10th century, conquering the Ikhshidid dynasty and founding a capital at \"al-Qāhira\"(Cairo) in 969. The name was a reference to the planet Mars, \"The Subduer\", which was prominent in the sky at the moment that city construction started. Cairo was intended as a royal enclosure for the Fatimid caliph and his army, though the actual administrative and economic capital of Egypt was in cities such as Fustat until 1169. After Egypt, the Fatimids continued to conquer surrounding areas until they ruled from Tunisia to Syria and even crossed the Mediterranean into Sicily and southern Italy.\n\nUnder the Fatimids, Egypt became the center of an empire that included at its peak North Africa, Sicily, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, the Red Sea coast of Africa, Yemen and the Hejaz. Egypt flourished, and the Fatimids developed an extensive trade network in both the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean. Their trade and diplomatic ties extended all the way to China and its Song dynasty, which determined the economic course of Egypt during the High Middle Ages.\n\nUnlike other governments in the area, Fatimid advancement in state offices was based more on merit than heredity. Members of other branches of Islam, including Sunnis, were just as likely to be appointed to government posts as Shiites. Tolerance covered non-Muslims such as Christians and Jews; they took high levels in government based on ability. There were, however, exceptions to this general attitude of tolerance, notably Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah.\n\nThe Fatimid palace was in two parts. It was in the Khan el-Khalili area at Bin El-Quasryn street.\n\n\"Early and High Middle Ages\"\n\nDuring the beginning of the Middle Baghdad Abbasids, the Fatimid Caliphs claimed spiritual supremacy not only in Egypt, but also contested the religious leadership of Syria. At the beginning of the Abbasid realm in Baghdad, the Alids faced severe persecution by the ruling party as they were a direct threat to the Caliphate. Owing to the Abbasid inquisitions, the forefathers opted for concealment of the Dawa's existence. Subsequently, they traveled towards the Iranian Plateau and distanced themselves from the epicenter of the political world. Al Mahdi's father, Al Husain al Mastoor returned to control the Dawa's affairs. He sent two Dai's to Yemen and Western Africa. Al Husain died soon after the birth of his son, Al Mahdi. A system of government helped update Al Mahdi on the development which took place in North Africa.\n\nAl Mahdi Abdullah al-Mahdi Billah established the first Imam of the Fatimid dynasty. He claimed genealogic origins dating as far back as Fatimah through Husayn and Ismail. Al Mahdi established his headquarters at Salamiyah and moved towards north-western Africa, under Aghlabid rule. His success of laying claim to being the precursor to the Mahdi was instrumental among the Berber tribes of North Africa, specifically the Kutamah tribe. Al Mahdi established himself at the former Aghlabid residence at Raqqadah, a suburb of Al-Qayrawan in Tunisia. In 920, Al Mahdi took up residence at the newly established capital of the empire, Al-Mahdiyyah. After his death, Al Mahdi was succeeded by his son, Abu Al-Qasim Muhammad Al-Qaim, who continued his expansionist policy. At the time of his death he had extended his reign to Morocco of the Idrisids, as well as Egypt itself.The Fatimid Caliphate grew to include Sicily and to stretch across North Africa from the Atlantic Ocean to Libya. Abdullāh al-Mahdi's control soon extended over all of central Maghreb, an area consisting of the modern countries of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya, which he ruled from Mahdia, in Tunisia. Newly built capital Al-Mansuriya, or Mansuriyya (), near Kairouan, Tunisia, was the capital of the Fatimid Caliphate during the rules of the Imams Al-Mansur Billah (r. 946–953) and Al-Mu'izz li-Din Allah (r. 953–975).\n\nThe Fatimid general Jawhar conquered Egypt in 969, and he built a new palace city there, near Fusṭāt, which he also called al-Manṣūriyya. Under Al-Muizz Lideenillah, the Fatimids conquered the Ikhshidid Wilayah (see Fatimid Egypt), founding a new capital at \"al-Qāhira\" (Cairo) in 969. The name was a reference to the planet Mars, \"The Subduer\", which was prominent in the sky at the moment that city construction started. Cairo was intended as a royal enclosure for the Fatimid caliph and his army, though the actual administrative and economic capital of Egypt was in cities such as Fustat until 1169. After Egypt, the Fatimids continued to conquer the surrounding areas until they ruled from Tunisia to Syria, as well as Sicily.\n\nUnder the Fatimids, Egypt became the center of an empire that included at its peak North Africa, Sicily, Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, the Red Sea coast of Africa, Tihamah, Hejaz, and Yemen. Egypt flourished, and the Fatimids developed an extensive trade network in both the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean. Their trade and diplomatic ties extended all the way to China and its Song Dynasty, which eventually determined the economic course of Egypt during the High Middle Ages.\n\nAfter the eighteenth Imam, al-Mustansir Billah, the Nizari sect believed that his son Nizar was his successor, while another Ismāʿīlī branch known as the Mustaali (from whom the Dawoodi Bohra would eventually descend), supported his other son, al-Musta'li. The Fatimid dynasty continued with al-Musta'li as both Imam and Caliph, and that joint position held until the 20th Imam, al-Amir bi-Ahkami l-Lah (1132). At the death of Imam Amir, one branch of the Mustaali faith claimed that he had transferred the imamate to his son at-Tayyib Abi l-Qasim, who was then two years old.\nAfter the decay of the Fatimid political system in the 1160s, the Zengid ruler Nūr ad-Dīn had his general, Shirkuh, seized Egypt from the vizier Shawar in 1169. Shirkuh died two months after taking power, and the rule went to his nephew, Saladin. This began the Ayyubid Sultanate of Egypt and Syria.\n\nBeginning in the 8th century, the Iberian Christian kingdoms had begun the Reconquista aimed at retaking Al-Andalus from the Moors. In 1095, Pope Urban II, inspired by the conquests in Spain by Christian forces and implored by the eastern Roman emperor to help defend Christianity in the East, called for the First Crusade from Western Europe which captured Edessa, Antioch, County of Tripoli and Jerusalem.\n\nIn the early period of the Crusades, the Christian Kingdom of Jerusalem emerged and for a time controlled Jerusalem. The Kingdom of Jerusalem and other smaller Crusader kingdoms over the next 90 years formed part of the complicated politics of the Levant, but did not threaten the Islamic Caliphate nor other powers in the region. After Shirkuh ended Fatimid rule in 1169, uniting it with Syria, the Crusader kingdoms were faced with a threat, and his nephew Saladin reconquered most of the area in 1187, leaving the Crusaders holding a few ports.\n\nIn the Third Crusade armies from Europe failed to recapture Jerusalem, though Crusader states lingered for several decades, and other crusades followed. The Christian Reconquista continued in Al-Andalus, and was eventually completed with the fall of Granada in 1492. During the low period of the Crusades, the Fourth Crusade was diverted from the Levant and instead took Constantinople, leaving the Eastern Roman Empire (now the Byzantine Empire) further weakened in their long struggle against the Turkish peoples to the east. However, the crusaders did manage to damage Islamic caliphates; according to William of Malmesbury, preventing them from further expansion into Christendom and being targets of the Mamluks and the Mongols.\n\nThe Ayyubid dynasty was founded by Saladin and centered in Egypt. In 1174, Saladin proclaimed himself Sultan and conquered the Near East region. The Ayyubids ruled much of the Middle East during the 12th and 13th centuries, controlling Egypt, Syria, northern Mesopotamia, Hejaz, Yemen, and the North African coast up to the borders of modern-day Tunisia. After Saladin, his sons contested control over the sultanate, but Saladin's brother al-Adil eventually established himself in 1200. In the 1230s, Syria's Ayyubid rulers attempted to win independence from Egypt and remained divided until Egyptian Sultan as-Salih Ayyub restored Ayyubid unity by taking over most of Syria, excluding Aleppo, by 1247. In 1250, the dynasty in the Egyptian region was overthrown by slave regiments. A number of attempts to recover it failed, led by an-Nasir Yusuf of Aleppo. In 1260, the Mongols sacked Aleppo and wrested control of what remained of the Ayyubid territories soon after.\n\nAfter the Crusades the Mongols invaded in the 13th century, marking the end of the Islamic Golden Age. Some historians assert that the eastern Islamic world never fully recovered. Under the leadership of Genghis Khan, The Mongols put an end to the Abbasid era. The Mongol invasion of Central Asia began in 1219 at a huge cost in civilian life and economic devastation. The Mongols spread throughout Central Asia and Persia: the Persian city of Isfahan had fallen to them by 1237.\n\nWith the election of Khan Mongke in 1251, Mongol targeted the Abbasid capital, Baghdad. Mongke's brother, Hulegu, was made leader of the Mongol Army assigned to the task of subduing Baghdad. The fall of Bagdhad in 1258 destroyed what had been the largest city in Islam. The last Abbasid caliph, al-Musta'sim, was captured and killed; and Baghdad was ransacked and destroyed. The cities of Damascus and Aleppo fell in 1260. Plans for the conquest of Egypt were delayed due to the death of Mongke at around the same time. The Abbasid army lost to the superior Mongol army, but the invaders were finally stopped by Egyptian Mamluks north of Jerusalem in 1260 at the pivotal Battle of Ain Jalut.\n\nUltimately, the Ilkhanate, Golden Horde, and the Chagatai Khanate - three of the four principal Mongol khanates - embraced Islam. In power in Syria, Mesopotamia, Persia and further east, over the rest of the 13th century gradually all converted to Islam. Most Ilkhanid rulers were replaced by the new Mongol power founded by Timur (himself a Muslim), who conquered Persia in the 1360s, and moved against the Delhi Sultanate in India and the Ottoman Turks in Anatolia. Timur's ceaseless conquests were accompanied by displays of brutality matched only by Chinggis Khan, whose example Timur consciously imitated. Samarqand, the cosmopolitan capital of Timur's empire, flourished under his rule as never before, while Iran and Iraq suffered large-scale devastation. The Middle East was still recovering from the Black Death, which may have killed one third of the population in the region. The plague began in China, and reached Alexandria in Egypt in 1347, spreading over the following years to most Islamic areas. The combination of the plague and the wars left the Middle Eastern Islamic world in a seriously weakened position. The Timurid dynasty would found many branches of Islam, including the Mughals of India.\n\nIn 1250, the Ayyubid Egyptian dynasty was overthrown by slave regiments, and the Mamluk Sultanate was born. Military prestige was at the center of Mamluk society, and it played a key role in the confrontations with the Mongol forces. In the 1260s, the Mongols sacked and controlled the Islamic Near East territories. The Mamluks, who were Turkic, forced out the Mongols (see Battle of Ain Jalut) after the final destruction of the Ayyubid dynasty. The Mongols were again defeated by the Mamluks at the Battle of Hims a few months later, and then driven out of Syria altogether. With this, the Mamluks were able to concentrate their forces and to conquer the last of the crusader territories in the Levant. Thus they united Syria and Egypt for the longest interval between the Abbasid and Ottoman empires (1250–1517). The Mamluks experienced a continual state of political conflict, military tension, proxy wars, and economic competition between the \"Muslim territory\" (Dar al-Islam) and \"non-Muslim territory\" (Dar al-Harb).\n\nAs part of their chosen role as defenders of Islamic orthodoxy, the Mamluks sponsored many religious buildings, including mosques, madrasas and khanqahs. Though some construction took place in the provinces, the vast bulk of these projects expanded the capital. Many Mamluk buildings in Cairo have survived to this day, particularly in Old Cairo.\n\nThe Arabs, under the command of the Berber General Tarik ibn Ziyad, first began their conquest of southern Spain or al-Andalus in 711. A raiding party led by Tarik was sent to intervene in a civil war in the Visigothic kingdom in Hispania. Crossing the Strait of Gibraltar (named after the General), it won a decisive victory in the summer of 711 when the Visigothic king Roderic was defeated and killed on July 19 at the Battle of Guadalete. Tariq's commander, Musa bin Nusair crossed with substantial reinforcements, and by 718 the Muslims dominated most of the peninsula. Some later Arabic and Christian sources present an earlier raid by a certain Ṭārif in 710 and also, the Ad Sebastianum recension of the \"Chronicle of Alfonso III\", refers to an Arab attack incited by Erwig during the reign of Wamba (672–80). The two large armies may have been in the south for a year before the decisive battle was fought.\n\nThe rulers of Al-Andalus were granted the rank of Emir by the Umayyad Caliph Al-Walid I in Damascus. After the Abbasids came to power, some Umayyads fled to Muslim Spain to establish themselves there. By the end of the 10th century, the ruler Abd al-Rahman III took over the title of \"Caliph of Córdoba\"(912-961). Soon after, the Umayyads went on developing a strengthened state with its capital as Córdoba. Al-Hakam II succeeded to the Caliphate after the death of his father Abd ar-Rahman III in 961. He secured peace with the Christian kingdoms of northern Iberia, and made use of the stability to develop agriculture through the construction of irrigation works. Economic development was also encouraged through the widening of streets and the building of markets. The rule of the Caliphate is known as the heyday of Muslim presence in the peninsula.\n\nThe Umayyad Caliphate collapsed in 1031 due to political divisions and civil unrest during the rule of Hicham II who was ousted because of his indolence. Al-Andalus then broke up into a number of states called \"taifa kingdoms\" (Arabic, \"Muluk al-ṭawā'if\"; English, Petty kingdoms). The decomposition of the Caliphate into those petty kingdoms weakened the Muslims in the Iberian Peninsula \"vis-à-vis\" the Christian kingdoms of the north. Some of the \"taifas\", such as that of Seville, were forced to enter into alliances with Christian princes and pay tributes in money to Castille.\n\nAbd al-Rahman I and Bedr (a former Greek slave) escaped with their lives after the popular revolt known as the Abbasid Revolution. Rahman I continued south through Palestine, the Sinai, and then into Egypt. Rahman I was one of several surviving Umayyad family members to make a perilous trek to Ifriqiya at this time. Rahman I and Bedr reached modern day Morocco near Ceuta. Next step would be to cross to sea to al-Andalus, where Rahman I could not have been sure whether he would be welcome. Following the Berber Revolt (740s), the province was in a state of confusion, with the Ummah torn by tribal dissensions among the Arabs and racial tensions between the Arabs and Berbers. Bedr lined up three Syrian commanders – Obeid Allah ibn Uthman and Abd Allah ibn Khalid, both originally of Damascus, and Yusuf ibn Bukht of Qinnasrin and contacted al-Sumayl (then in Zaragoza) to get his consent, but al-Sumayl refused, fearing Rahman I would try to make himself emir. After discussion with Yemenite commanders, Rahman I was told to go to al-Andalus. Shortly thereafter, he set off with Bedr and a small group of followers for Europe. Abd al-Rahman landed at Almuñécar in al-Andalus, to the east of Málaga.\n\nDuring his brief time in Málaga, he quickly amassed local support. News of the prince's arrival spread throughout the peninsula. In order to help speed his ascension to power, he took advantage of the feuds and dissensions. However, before anything could be done, trouble broke out in northern al-Andalus. Abd al-Rahman and his followers were able to control Zaragoza. Rahman I fought to rule al-Andalus in a battle at the Guadalquivir river, just outside Córdoba on the plains of Musarah (Battle of Musarah). Rahman I was victorious, chasing his enemies from the field with parts of their army. Rahman I marched into the capital, Córdoba, fighting off a counterattack, but negotiations ended the confrontation. After Rahman I consolidated power, he proclaimed himself the al-Andalus emir. Rahman I did not claim the Muslim caliph, though. The last step was to have al-Fihri's general, al-Sumayl, garroted in Córdoba's jail. Al-Andalus was a safe haven for the house of Umayya that managed to evade the Abbasids.\n\nIn Baghdad, the Abbasid caliph al-Mansur had planned to depose the emir. Rahman I and his army confronted the Abbasids, killing most of the Abbasid army. The main Abbasid leaders were decapitated, their heads preserved in salt, with identifying tags pinned to their ears. The heads were bundled in a gruesome package and sent to the Abbasid caliph who was on pilgrimage at Mecca. Rahman I quelled repeated rebellions in al-Andalus. He began the building of the great mosque [cordova], and formed ship-yards along the coast; he is moreover said to have been the first to transplant the palm and the pomegranate into the congenial climate of Spain: and he encouraged science and literature in his states. He died on 29 September 788, after a reign of thirty-four years and one month.\nRahman I's successor was his son Hisham I. Born in Córdoba, he built many mosques and completed the Mezquita. He called for a jihad that resulted in a campaign against the Kingdom of Asturias and the County of Toulouse; in this second campaign he was defeated at Orange by William of Gellone, first cousin to Charlemagne. His successor Al-Hakam I came to power and was challenged by his uncles, other sons of Rahman I. One, Abdallah, went to the court of Charlemagne in Aix-la-Chapelle to negotiate for aid. In the mean time Córdoba was attacked, but was defended. Hakam I spent much of his reign suppressing rebellions in Toledo, Saragossa and Mérida.\n\nAbd ar-Rahman II succeeded his father and engaged in nearly continuous warfare against Alfonso II of Asturias, whose southward advance he halted. Rahman II repulsed an assault by Vikings who had disembarked in Cádiz, conquered Seville (with the exception of its citadel) and attacked Córdoba. Thereafter he constructed a fleet and naval arsenal at Seville to repel future raids. He responded to William of Septimania's requests of assistance in his struggle against Charles the Bald's nominations.\n\nMuhammad I's reign was marked by the movements of the Muladi (ethnic Iberian Muslims) and Mozarabs (Muslim-Iberia Christians). Muhammad I was succeeded by his son Mundhir I. During the reign of his father, Mundhir I commanded military operations against the neighbouring Christian kingdoms and the Muladi rebellions. At his father's death, he inherited the throne. During his two-year reign, Mundhir I fought against Umar ibn Hafsun. He died in 888 at Bobastro, succeeded by his brother Abdullah ibn Muhammad al-Umawi.\n\nUmawi showed no reluctance to dispose of those he viewed as a threat. His government was marked by continuous wars between Arabs, Berbers and Muladi. His power as emir was confined to the area of Córdoba, while the rest had been seized by rebel families. The son he had designated as successor was killed by one of Umawi's brothers. The latter was in turn executed by Umawi's father, who named as successor Abd ar-Rahman III, son of the killed son of Umawi.\n\nThe Umayyad conquest of North Africa continued the century of rapid Muslim military expansion following the death of Muhammad in 632. By 640 the Arabs controlled Mesopotamia, had invaded Armenia, and were concluding their conquest of Byzantine Syria. Damascus was the seat of the Umayyad caliphate. By the end of 641 all of Egypt was in Arab hands. A subsequent attempt to conquer the Nubian kingdom of Makuria was however repelled.\n\nKairouan in Tunisia was the first city founded by Muslims in the Maghreb. Arab general Uqba ibn Nafi erected the city (in 670) and, in the same time, the Great Mosque of Kairouan considered as the oldest and most prestigious sanctuary in the western Islamic world.\n\nThis part of Islamic territory has had independent governments during most of Islamic history. The Idrisid were the first Arab rulers in the western Maghreb (Morocco), ruling from 788 to 985. The dynasty is named after its first sultan Idris I.\n\nThe Almoravid dynasty was a Berber dynasty from the Sahara flourished over a wide area of North-Western Africa and the Iberian Peninsula during the 11th century. Under this dynasty the Moorish empire was extended over present-day Morocco, Western Sahara, Mauritania, Gibraltar, Tlemcen (in Algeria) and a part of what is now Senegal and Mali in the south, and Spain and Portugal in the north.\n\nThe Almohad Dynasty or \"the Unitarians\", were a Berber Muslim religious power which founded the fifth Moorish dynasty in the 12th century, and conquered all Northern Africa as far as Egypt, together with Al-Andalus.\n\nThe history of Islam in the Horn of Africa is almost as old as the faith itself. Through extensive trade and social interactions with their converted Muslim trading partners on the other side of the Red Sea, in the Arabian peninsula, merchants and sailors in the Horn region gradually came under the influence of the new religion.\n\nEarly Islamic disciples fled to the port city of Zeila in modern-day northern Somalia to seek protection from the Quraysh at the court of the Aksumite Emperor in present-day Somalia. Some of the Muslims that were granted protection are said to have then settled in several parts of the Horn region to promote the religion. The victory of the Muslims over the Quraysh in the 7th century had a significant impact on local merchants and sailors, as their trading partners in Arabia had by then all adopted Islam, and the major trading routes in the Mediterranean and the Red Sea came under the sway of the Muslim Caliphs. Instability in the Arabian peninsula saw further migrations of early Muslim families to the Somali seaboard. These clans came to serve as catalysts, forwarding the faith to large parts of the Horn region.\n\nIslam came to the Great Lakes region of South Eastern Africa along existing trade routes. They learned from them the manners of the Muslims and this led to their conversion by the Muslim Arabs.\n\nLocal Islamic governments centered in Tanzania (then Zanzibar). The people of \"Zayd\" were Muslims that immigrated to the Great Lakes region. In the pre-colonial period, the structure of Islamic authority here was held up through the \"Ulema\" (\"wanawyuonis\", in Swahili language). These leaders had some degree of authority over most of the Muslims in South East Africa before territorial boundaries were established. The chief Qadi there was recognized for having the final religious authority.\n\nIslam first reached Maritime Southeast Asia through traders from Mecca in the 7th century, particularly via the western part of what is now Indonesia. Arab traders from Yemen already had a presence in Asia through trading and traveling by sea, serving as intermediary traders to and from Europe and Africa. They traded not only Arabian goods but also goods from Africa, India, and so on which included ivory, fragrances, spices, and gold.\n\nAccording to T.W. Arnold in \"The Preaching of Islam\", by the 2nd century of the Islamic Calendar, Arab traders had been trading with the inhabitants of Ceylon, modern-day Sri Lanka. The same argument has been told by Dr. B.H. Burger and Dr. Mr. Prajudi in \"Sedjarah Ekonomis Sosiologis Indonesia\" (History of Socio Economic of Indonesia) According to an atlas created by the geographer Al-Biruni (973–1048), the Indian or Indonesian Ocean used to be called the Persian Ocean. After Western Imperialist rule, this name was changed to reflect the name used today; the Indian Ocean.\n\nSoon, many Sufi missionaries translated classical Sufi literature from Arabic and Persian into Malay; a tangible product of this is the Jawi script. Coupled with the composing of original Islamic literature in Malay, this led the way to the transformation of Malay into an Islamic language. By 1292, when Marco Polo visited Sumatra, most of the inhabitants had converted to Islam. The Sultanate of Malacca was founded on the Malay Peninsula by Parameswara, a Srivijayan Prince.\n\nThrough trade and commerce, Islam then spread to Borneo and Java. By the late 15th century, Islam had been introduced to the Philippines via the southern island of Mindanao. The foremost socio-cultural Muslim entities that resulted form this are the present-day Sultanate of Sulu and Sultanate of Maguindanao; Islamised kingdoms in the northern Luzon island, such as the Kingdom of Maynila and the Kingdom of Tondo, were later conquered and Christianised with the majority of the archipelago by Spanish colonisers beginning in the 16th century.\n\nAs Islam spread, societal changes developed from the individual conversions, and five centuries later it emerged as a dominant cultural and political power in the region. Three main Muslim political powers emerged. The Aceh Sultanate was the most important, controlling much of the area between Southeast Asia and India from its centre in northern Sumatra. The Sultanate also attracted Sufi poets. The second Muslim power was the Sultanate of Malacca on the Malay Peninsula. The Sultanate of Demak on Java was the third power, where the emerging Muslim forces defeated the local Majapahit kingdom in the early 16th century. Although the sultanate managed to expand its territory somewhat, its rule remained brief.\n\nPortuguese forces captured Malacca in 1511 under naval general Afonso de Albuquerque. With Malacca subdued, the Aceh Sultanate and Bruneian Empire established themselves as centres of Islam in Southeast Asia. The Sultanate's territory, although vastly diminished, remains intact to this day as the modern state of Brunei Darussalam.\n\nOn the Indian subcontinent, Islam first appeared in the southwestern tip of the peninsula, in today's Kerala state. Arabs traded with Malabar even before the birth of Muhammad. Native legends say that a group of Sahaba, under Malik Ibn Deenar, arrived on the Malabar Coast and preached Islam. According to that legend, the first mosque of India was built by Second Chera King Cheraman Perumal, who accepted Islam and received the name \"Tajudheen\". He traveled to Arabia to meet Muhammad and died on the trip back, somewhere in today's Oman. Historical records suggest that the Cheraman Perumal Mosque was built in around 629.\n\nIslamic rule came to the Indian subcontinent in the 8th century, when Muhammad bin Qasim conquered Sindh. Muslim conquests expanded under Mahmud and the Ghaznavids until the late 12th century, when the Ghurids overran the Ghaznavids and extended the conquests in Northern India. Qutb-ud-din Aybak conquered Delhi in 1206 and began the reign of the Delhi Sultanates.\n\nIn the 14th century, Alauddin Khalji extended Muslim rule south to Gujarat, Rajasthan and Deccan. Various other Muslim dynasties also formed and ruled across India from the 13th to the 18th century such as the Qutb Shahi and the Bahmani, but none rivalled the power and extensive reach of the Mughal Empire at its peak.\n\nIn China, four Sahabas (Sa'ad ibn abi Waqqas, Wahb Abu Kabcha, Jafar ibn Abu Talib and Jahsh ibn Riyab) preached in 616/17 and onwards after following the Chittagong–Kamrup–Manipur route after sailing from Abyssinia in 615/16. After conquering Persia in 636, Sa'ad ibn abi Waqqas went with Sa'id ibn Zaid, Qais ibn Sa'd and Hassan ibn Thabit to China in 637 taking the complete Quran. Sa'ad ibn abi Waqqas headed for China for the third time in 650–51 after Caliph Uthman asked him to lead an embassy to China, which the Chinese emperor received.\n\nIn the 15th and 16th centuries three major Muslim empires formed: the Ottoman Empire in the Middle East, the Balkans and Northern Africa; the Safavid Empire in Greater Iran; and the Mughal Empire in South Asia. These imperial powers were made possible by the discovery and exploitation of gunpowder and more efficient administration.\n\nThe Seljuq Turks declined in the second half of the 13th century, after the Mongol invasion. This resulted in the establishment of multiple Turkish principalities, known as beyliks. Osman I, the founder of the Ottoman dynasty, assumed leadership of one of these principalities (Söğüt) at the end of the thirteenth century, succeeding his father Ertuğrul. Osman I afterwards led it in a series of battles with the Byzantine Empire. By 1331, the Ottomans had captured Nicaea, the former Byzantine capital, under the leadership of Osman's son and successor, Orhan I. Victory at the Battle of Kosovo against the Serbs in 1389 then facilitated their expansion into Europe. The Ottomans were established in the Balkans and Anatolia by the time Bayezid I ascended to power in the same year, now at the helm of a growing empire.\n\nGrowth halted when Mongol warlord Timur (also known as \"Tamerlane\") captured Bayezid I in the Battle of Ankara in 1402, beginning the Ottoman Interregnum. This episode was characterized by the division of the Ottoman territory amongst Bayezid I's sons, who submitted to Timurid authority. When a number of Ottoman territories regained independent status, ruin for the Empire loomed. However, the empire recovered, as the youngest son of Bayezid I, Mehmed I, waged offensive campaigns against his ruling brothers, thereby reuniting Asia Minor and declaring himself sultan in 1413.\n\nAround this time the Ottoman naval fleet developed, such that they were able to challenge Venice, a naval power. They also attempted to reconquer the Balkans. By the time of Mehmed I's grandson, Mehmed II (ruled 1444–1446; 1451–1481), the Ottomans could lay siege to Constantinople, the capital of Byzantium. A factor in this siege was the use of muskets and large cannons introduced by the Ottomans. The Byzantine fortress succumbed in 1453, after 54 days of siege. Without its capital the Byzantine Empire disintegrated. The future successes of the Ottomans and later empires would depend upon the exploitation of gunpowder.\n\nIn the early 16th century, the Shi'ite Safavid dynasty assumed control in Persia under the leadership of Shah Ismail I, defeating the ruling Turcoman federation Aq Qoyunlu (also called the \"White Sheep Turkomans\") in 1501. The Ottoman sultan Selim I sought to repel Safavid expansion, challenging and defeating them at the Battle of Chaldiran in 1514. Selim I also deposed the ruling Mamluks in Egypt, absorbing their territories in 1517. Suleiman I (also known as \"Suleiman the Magnificent\"), Selim I's successor, took advantage of the diversion of Safavid focus to the Uzbeks on the eastern frontier and recaptured Baghdad, which had fallen under Safavid control. Despite this, Safavid power remained substantial, rivalling the Ottomans. Suleiman I advanced deep into Hungary following the Battle of Mohács in 1526 — reaching as far as the gates of Vienna thereafter, and signed a Franco-Ottoman alliance with Francis I of France against Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire 10 years later. While Suleiman I's rule (1520–1566) is often identified as the apex of Ottoman power, the empire continued to remain powerful and influential until a relative fall in its military strength in the second half of the eighteenth century.\n\nThe Safavid dynasty rose to power in Tabriz in 1501 and later conquered the rest of Iran. The Safavids were originally Sufi and Iran was Sunni. After their defeat at the hands of the Sunni Ottomans at the Battle of Chaldiran, to unite the Persians behind him Ismail I made conversion mandatory for the largely Sunni population to Twelver Shia so that he could get them to fight the Sunni Ottomans.\n\nThis resulted in the Safavid conversion of Iran to Shia Islam. Zaydis, the largest group amongst the Shia before the Safavid Dynasty were also forced to convert to the Twelver Shia. The Zaydis at that time used the Hanafi Fiqh, as did most Sunnis and there were good relations between them. Abu Hanifah and Zayd ibn Ali were also very good friends.\n\nThe Safavids dynasty from Azarbaijan ruled from 1501 to 1736, and which established Twelver Shi'a Islam as the region's official religion and united its provinces under a single sovereignty, thereby reigniting the Persian identity.\nAlthough claiming to be the descendants of Ali ibn Abu Talib, the Safavids were Sunni (the name \"Safavid\" comes from a Sufi order called \"Safavi\"). Their origins go back to Firuz Shah Zarrinkolah, a local dignitary from the north. During their rule, the Safavids recognized Twelver Shi'a Islam as the State religion, thus giving the region a separate identity from its Sunni neighbours.\n\nIn 1524, Tahmasp I acceded to the throne, initiating a revival of the arts. Carpetmaking became a major industry. The tradition of Persian miniature painting in manuscripts reached its peak, until Tahmasp turned to strict religious observance in middle age, prohibiting the consumption of alcohol and hashish and removing casinos, taverns and brothels. Tahmasp's nephew Ibrahim Mirza continued to patronize a last flowering of the arts until he was murdered, after which many artists were recruited by the Mughal dynasty.\n\nTahmasp's grandson, Shah Abbas I, restored the shrine of the eighth Twelver Shi'a Imam, Ali al-Ridha at Mashhad, and restored the dynastic shrine at Ardabil. Both shrines received jewelry, fine manuscripts and Chinese porcelains. Abbas moved the capital to Isfahan, revived old ports, and established thriving trade with Europeans. Amongst Abbas's most visible cultural achievements was the construction of \"Naqsh-e Jahan Square\" (\"Design of the World\"). The plaza, located near a Friday mosque, covered .\n\nThe Safavid Dynasty was toppled in 1722 by the Hotaki dynasty, which ended their forceful conversion of Sunni areas to Shiaism.\n\nThe Mughal Empire was a product of various Central Asian invasions into the Indian subcontinent. It was founded by the Timurid prince Babur in 1526 with the destruction of the Delhi sultanate, placing its capital in Agra. Babur's death some years later and the indecisive rule of his son, Humayun, brought instability to Mughal rule. The resistance of the Afghani Sher Shah, who administered a string of defeats to Humayun, weakened the empire. A year before his death, however, Humayun managed to recover much of the lost territories, leaving a substantial legacy for his son, the 13-year-old Akbar (later known as \"Akbar the Great\"), in 1556. Under Akbar, consolidation of the Mughal Empire occurred through both expansion and administrative reforms. After Akbar, Jahangir and Shah Jahan came to power. Subsequently, Aurangazeb ruled vast areas including Afghanisthan, Pakistan, India and Bangladesh.\n\nThe empire ruled most of present-day India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan for several centuries. Its decline in the early 18th century allowed India to be divided into smaller kingdoms and states. The Mughal dynasty was dissolved by the British Empire after the Indian rebellion of 1857. It left a lasting legacy on Indian culture and architecture. Famous buildings built by the Mughals, include: the Taj Mahal, the Red Fort, the Badshahi Mosque, the Lahore Fort, the Shalimar Gardens and the Agra Fort. During the empire's reign, Muslim communities flourished all over India, in Gujarat, Bengal and Hyderabad. Various Sufi orders from Afghanistan and Persia were active throughout the region. More than a quarter of the population converted to Islam.\n\nThe modern age brought technological and organizational changes to Europe while the Islamic region continued the patterns of earlier centuries. The European powers, and especially Britain and France, globalized economically and colonized much of the region.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the Ottoman Empire had declined. The decision to back Germany in World War I meant they shared the Central Powers' defeat in that war. The defeat led to the overthrow of the Ottomans by Turkish nationalists led by the victorious general of the Battle of Gallipoli: Mustafa Kemal, who became known to his people as Atatürk, \"Father of the Turks.\" Atatürk was credited with renegotiating the treaty of Sèvres (1920) which ended Turkey's involvement in the war and establishing the modern Republic of Turkey, which was recognized by the Allies in the Treaty of Lausanne (1923). Atatürk went on to implement an ambitious program of modernization that emphasized economic development and secularization. He transformed Turkish culture to reflect European laws, adopted Arabic numerals, the Latin script, separated the religious establishment from the state, and emancipated woman—even giving them the right to vote in parallel with women's suffrage in the west.\n\nFollowing World War I, the vast majority of former Ottoman territory outside of Asia Minor was handed over to the victorious European powers as protectorates. During the war the Allies had promised the subject peoples independence in exchange for their assistance fighting the Turkish powers. To their dismay, they found that this system of \"protectorates\" was a smoke-screen for their continued subjugation by the British and the French. The struggles for independence from their Turkish overlords and the cooperation of partisan forces with the British were romanticized in the stories of British secret intelligence agent T. E. Lawrence—later known as \"Lawrence of Arabia.\" Ottoman successor states include today's Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Egypt, Greece, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Syria, Jordan, Turkey, Balkan states, North Africa and the north shore of the Black Sea.\n\nMany Muslim countries sought to adopt European political organization and nationalism began to emerge in the Muslim world. Countries like Egypt, Syria and Turkey organized their governments and sought to develop national pride among their citizens. Other places, like Iraq, were not as successful due to a lack of unity and an inability to resolve age-old prejudices between Muslim sects and against non-Muslims.\n\nSome Muslim countries, such as Turkey and Egypt, sought to separate Islam from the secular government. In other cases, such as Saudi Arabia, the government brought out religious expression in the re-emergence of the puritanical form of Sunni Islam known to its detractors as Wahabism, which found its way into the Saudi royal family.\n\nThe Arab–Israeli conflict spans about a century of political tensions and open hostilities. It involves the establishment of the modern State of Israel as a Jewish nation state, the consequent displacement of the Palestinian people and Jewish exodus from Arab and Muslim countries, as well as the adverse relationship between the Arab states and the State of Israel (see related Israeli–Palestinian conflict). Despite at first involving only the Arab states bordering Israel, animosity has also developed between Israel and other predominantly Muslim states.\n\nThe Six-Day War of June 5–10, 1967, was fought between Israel and the neighbouring states of Egypt, Jordan, and Syria. The Arab countries closed the Suez canal and it was followed in May 1970 by the closure of the \"tapline\" from Saudi Arabia through Syria to Lebanon. These developments had the effect of increasing the importance of petroleum in Libya, which is a short (and canal-free) shipping distance from Europe. In 1970, Occidental Petroleum broke with other oil companies and accepted the Arab demands for price increases.\n\nMany countries, individuals and non-governmental organizations elsewhere in the world feel involved in this conflict for reasons such as cultural and religious ties with Islam, Arab culture, Christianity, Judaism, Jewish culture, or for ideological, human rights, or strategic reasons. Although some consider the Arab–Israeli conflict a part of (or a precursor to) a wider clash of civilizations between the Western World and the Muslim world, others oppose this view. Animosity emanating from this conflict has caused numerous attacks on supporters (or perceived supporters) of each side by supporters of the other side in many countries around the world.\n\nIn 1979 the Iranian Revolution transformed Iran from a constitutional monarchy to a populist theocratic Islamic republic under the rule of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, a Shi'i Muslim cleric and \"marja\". Following the Revolution, and a new constitution was approved and a referendum established the government, electing Ruhollah Khomeini as Supreme Leader. During the following two years, liberals, leftists, and Islamic groups fought each other, and the Islamics captured power.\n\nThe development of the two opposite fringes, the Safavid conversion of Iran to Shia Islam the Twelver Shia version and its reinforcement by the Iranian Revolution and the Salafi in Saudi Arabia, coupled with the Iran–Saudi Arabia relations resulted in these governments using sectarian conflict to enhance their political interests. Gulf states such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait (despite being hostile to Iraq) encouraged Saddam Hussein to invade Iran, which resulted in the Iran–Iraq War, as they feared that an Islamic revolution would take place within their own borders. Certain Iranian exiles also helped convince Saddam that if he invaded, the fledgling Islamic republic would quickly collapse.\n\nIn October 1973, a new war between Israel and its Muslim neighbors, known as the Yom Kippur War, broke out just as the oil companies began meeting with OPEC leaders. OPEC had been emboldened by the success of Sadat's campaigns and the war strengthened their unity. In response to the emergency resupply effort by the West that enabled Israel to put up a resistance against the Egyptian and Syrian forces, the Arab world imposed the 1973 oil embargo against the United States and Western Europe. Faisal agreed that Saudi Arabia would use some of its oil wealth to finance the \"front-line states\", those that bordered Israel, in their struggle. The centrality of petroleum, the Arab-Israeli Conflict and political and economic instability and uncertainty remain constant features of the politics of the region.\n\n\nBooks, articles, and journals\n\nEncyclopedias\n\n"}
{"id": "345414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=345414", "title": "Index of Economic Freedom", "text": "Index of Economic Freedom\n\nThe Index of Economic Freedom is an annual index and ranking created in 1995 by The Heritage Foundation and \"The Wall Street Journal\" to measure the degree of economic freedom in the world's nations. The creators of the index took an approach similar to Adam Smith's in \"The Wealth of Nations\", that \"basic institutions that protect the liberty of individuals to pursue their own economic interests result in greater prosperity for the larger society\".\n\n\"Key: ██ Free (80–100)\"\n\"██ Mostly Free (70–79.9)\"\n\"██ Moderately Free (60–69.9)\"\n\"██ Mostly Unfree (50–59.9)\"\n\"██ Repressed (0–49.9)\"\n\nThe following table contains more attributes. The whole table is available in XLS format at The Heritage Foundation web site.\nThe 2018 ranking scores aspects of economic freedom between 0 and 100, with 0 meaning \"no economic freedom\" and 100 meaning \"total economic freedom\". There are twelve aspects divided into four categories.\n\nDegree of a country's legal protection of private property rights and degree of enforcement of those laws. It is divided into the following sub-factors:\n\nDegree of the judiciary's efficiency and fairness, especially dealing with property laws. It is divided into the following sub-factors:\n\nAnalyzes how prevalent are forms of political corruption and practices such as bribery, extortion, nepotism, cronyism, patronage, embezzlement, and graft. It is divided into the following sub-factors: \n\nAnalyzes marginal tax rates on personal and corporate income and the overall taxation level (including direct and indirect taxes imposed by all levels of government) as a percentage of the GDP. Its sub-factors are:\n\nQuantifies the burden of government expenditures, including consumption by the state and all transfer payments related to various entitlement programs. The ideal level varies from country to country, but zero expenditure is used as a benchmark.\n\nAnalyzes how well a country manages its budget by quantifying the growing debt and deficit. It is divided into the following sub-factors: \n\nAnalyses the cost, time and freedom to open, operate and close a business, taking into consideration factors like electricity. It is divided into thirteen sub-factors:\n\nQuantifies the intrusivness of labor rights such as minimum wage, laws inhibiting layoffs, severance requirements, and measurable regulatory restraints on hiring and hours worked, plus the labor force participation rate as an indicative measure of employment opportunities in the labor market. It is divided into the following sub-factors:\n\nAnalyses how stable are prices and how much microeconomy intervenes. It is divided into the following sub-factors:\n\nQuantifies the extent to which tariff and nontariff barriers affect imports and exports of goods and services into and out of the country. Its sub-factors are:\n\nAnalyses how free or constrained is the flow of investment capital of individuals and firms.\n\nIndicates banking efficiency as well as how independent from the government is the financial sector. This aspect looks at five broad areas:\n\nThe Heritage Foundation reports that the top 20% on the index have twice the per capita income of those in the second quintile, and five times that of the bottom 20%. Carl Schramm, who wrote the first chapter of the 2008 Index, states that cities of Medieval Italy and mid-19th century Midwestern American cities all flourished to the degree they possessed economic fluidity and institutional adaptiveness created by economic freedom.\n\nAccording to Will Wilkinson of the libertarian think tank Cato Institute, studies show that higher economic freedom correlates strongly with higher self-reported happiness. According to economists Tomi Ovaska and Ryo Takashima, economic freedom research suggests \"that people unmistakably care about the degree to which the society where they live provides them opportunities and the freedom to undertake new projects, strongly with and make choices based on one's personal preferences.\"\n\nAccording to the Cato Institute, higher economic freedom promotes participation and collaboration. Also claimed is that higher economic freedom is extremely significant in preventing wars; according to their calculations, freedom is around 54 times more effective than democracy (as measured by \"Democracy Score\") in diminishing violent conﬂict.\n\nSince the index was created in 1995, the score for world economic freedom has increased, rising 2.6 points up to 2008. In 2011 the score had decreased from the 2008 score of 60.2 to 59.7, which represents an increase of 2.2 points since 1995. The Economic Freedom score improved for 117 countries, the majority of countries included in the index, which were mainly developing and emerging market economies. With the exception of Europe and North America, there were increased levels of freedom recorded in all regions, with the greatest improvement shown in Sub-Saharan Africa. The top five \"free\" economies identified by the 2011 index were Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, and Switzerland, each scoring over 80 on the economic freedom grading scale. Since the Index was created in 1995, Hong Kong has been the top performing economy.\n\nIn 2011, the United States dropped to 9th place behind such countries as Denmark, Canada, and first-place Hong Kong. The Heritage Foundation has pointed to increases in government spending as the reason for the United States' decline, and according to data from the 2011 index, the growth rates of countries with the highest levels of government spending were 4.5 points lower, on average, than countries where government spending was under control. In their \"Executive Highlights\" of index results, the Heritage Foundation stated that \"high levels of government spending in response to the global economic turmoil have not resulted in higher economic growth\".\n\nThe results from the 2012 index showed an overall decline in global economic freedom; according to The Heritage Foundation, the average score in its ranking was the second lowest of the last ten years. In particular, the U.S. dropped to 10th place in the ranking, and has now fallen three places since 2008, when it was 7th. A report issued by the Foundation stated that government spending was the cause of the decline, and had \"not only failed to arrest the economic crisis, but also—in many countries—seems to be prolonging it\". According to the report, activity in the private sector is threatened by the greater government spending, which has increased public debt and led to more bureaucracy.\n\nCountries that shared the same rank received a tie score.\n\nAccording to the Freedom House, \"there is a high and statistically significant correlation between the level of political freedom as measured by Freedom House and economic freedom as measured by the Wall Street Journal/Heritage Foundation survey.\" The Millennium Challenge Account, a U.S. government foreign aid program, has used the Trade freedom indicator in determining which countries will receive their performance-based compacts.\n\nCritics such as Jeffrey Sachs have contested the Index's assumption that economic openness necessarily leads to better growth. In his book \"The End of Poverty\", Sachs graphed countries' ratings on the index against GDP per capita growth between 1995 and 2003, claiming to demonstrate no correlation between a country's rating and its rate of economic growth. Sachs pointed out, as examples, that countries with good ratings such as Switzerland and Uruguay had sluggish economic performances, others, like China, with poorer rating had very strong economic growth.\n\nThe UAE questioned the rating of their country's economic freedom in 2008, comparing its middling rating with the high rating they had received from other indicators such as Transparency International and Moody's. They also argued that the report is \"unreliable\", because its methodology had changed twice in the last two years.\n\nStefan Karlsson of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, challenged the usefulness of the index due to the fuzziness of many of the categories used to determine freedom. John Miller roundly criticizes the \"Index\", writing in \"Dollars & Sense\", \"In the hands of the Wall Street Journal and the Heritage Foundation, Washington's foremost right-wing think tank, however, an economic freedom index merely measures corporate and entrepreneurial freedom from accountability. Upon examination, the index turns out to be a poor barometer of either freedom more broadly construed or of prosperity.\" According to Left Business Observer, growth in Index accounts for 10% of the variation in the growth of GDP.\n\n\"Key: ██ Free (80–100)\"\n\"██ Mostly Free (70.0–79.9)\"\n\"██ Moderately Free (60.0–69.9)\"\n\"██ Mostly Unfree (50.0–59.9)\"\n\"██ Repressed (0–49.9)\"\nThe Index's 2008 definition of economic freedom is \"the highest form of economic freedom provides an absolute right of property ownership, fully realized freedoms of movement for labor, capital, and goods, and an absolute absence of coercion or constraint of economic liberty beyond the extent necessary for citizens to protect and maintain liberty itself.\"\n\nThe index scores nations on ten factors of economic freedom, separated into four categories, using statistics from organizations like the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, Economist Intelligence Unit and Transparency International. In each factor, countries are scored 0 to 100, with 0 being the least free and 100 the most free. A score of 100 signifies an economic environment or set of policies that is most conducive to economic freedom. The methodology has shifted and changed as new data and measurements have become available, especially in the area of Labor Freedom, which was given its own indicator spot in 2007. The following list explains what each factor currently assesses and groups them according to their respective category:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8753096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8753096", "title": "Indonesia Handbook", "text": "Indonesia Handbook\n\nBill Dalton's Indonesia Handbook, published by Moon Publications in California, was the main English language tourist guide book for the whole of Indonesia between the 1970s and the 1990s. \nThe book originated in 1973 as a typewritten publication, \"A Traveler's Notes: Indonesia\", printed by Dalton when he was travelling in Australia. This led Dalton to form his company, Moon Publications, when he returned to California, and expand and publish his Travel Notes as a full book, the Indonesia Handbook.\n\nThe earlier editions in the late 1970s were much smaller than the later editions. During the Suharto era the guide book was at times banned. By the time of the last edition, published in 1995, the book was 1,380 pages long.\n\nMoon expanded its range to publish a large number of travel handbooks, following the successful format of the Indonesia Handbook, to cover other areas, for example the \"South Pacific Handbook\" by David Stanley.\n\nDalton sold his interest in Moon Publications in 1999, and the new owners dropped the title.\n\nThe Department of Information of the Government of Indonesia published a volume with the same title between 1970 and 1977 - and it had been compiled and produced by Japenpa Foreign Languages Publishing Institute.\n\nIn 1996 the title \"Indonesia Handbook\" was used for a new guide book by Footprint Books, publisher of the \"South American Handbook\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24081929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24081929", "title": "Jean-Gilles Malliarakis", "text": "Jean-Gilles Malliarakis\n\nJean-Gilles Malliarakis (born 22 June 1944 in Paris) is a French far-right politician and writer.\nJean-Gilles Malliarakis is the son of Greek painter 'Mayo' (Antoine Malliarakis) and of a French mother. He grew up in an intellectual, artistic background , as his father was a friend of Jacques Prévert and Albert Camus. He says that he became strongly anti-communist at the age of 15 after seeing a play written by Camus and based on Dostoevsky's \"Demons\". While still a teenager, he began frequenting far-right groups. First a member of Action française's youth branch, he later joined the student movement Occident, alongside other notable French political figures such as future government members Alain Madelin, Gérard Longuet, Patrick Devedjian and future National Front executive François Duprat He eventually stopped frequenting Occident in 1966 and was formally expelled from the group the next year.\n\nWhilst a student at the Paris Institute of Political Studies, he created his own movement, \"Action nationaliste\", which was classified as neofascist. In 1969, he notoriously organized at the Institute of Political Studies a meeting the celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Fasci Italiani di Combattimento's founding by Mussolini. In May of that year, he was arrested after a left-wing student was grievously wounded during a fight between student activist groups. Malliarakis, who had been knocked out during the fight, was found unconscious by police forces and put in detention. He was eventually freed three weeks later.\n\nIn 1970, he took part to the founding meeting of the neo-fascist groupe Ordre Nouveau. Afterwards, he left frontline politics for a few years. He resurfaced in the mid-1970s when he bought the bookstore owned by Henry Coston and his wife. His shop, the \"Librairie française\", became a notorious venue for the far right in Paris. At the same time, he joined the \"Groupe action jeunesse\" (GAJ), a movement which advocated solidarist and anticapitalist positions and a \"third way\" between communism and capitalism. In 1979, he renamed the GAJ \"Mouvement nationaliste révolutionnaire\" (MNR). He advocated at that time \"national revolutionary\" positions. Historian Pierre Milza described Malliarakis' positions as somewhat similar to Mussolini's early left-wing fascism and Georges Valois's interwar Faisceau.\n\nIn 1982, Malliarakis attempted to create a coalition with other far right groups such as Pierre Sidos' L'Œuvre française, but the alliance was short-lived. As the National Front became dominant in the French far right, he tried to create an alliance with the Party of New Forces and, in 1984, renamed his own movement Third Way. He also tried to form an alliance with the GRECE but this attempt was fruitless. An alliance with the GUD was equally short-lived. Also during the 1980s, he started working for the neo-Poujadist syndicate \"Confédération de défense des commerçants et artisans\" and became a speaker at the right-wing station Radio Courtoisie.. \n\nIn 1991, the Third Way movement split after a conflict with Christian Bouchet's tendency. Malliarakis later dissolved what was left of the movement and retired from frontline politics to concentrate on his work at Radio Courtoisie and to his activity as a book publisher under the imprint \"Éditions du Trident\". He eventually adopted neoliberal positions and joined Alain Madelin's \"Idées action\" mouvement. In February 2007, after the death of station founder Jean Ferré, he left Radio Courtoisie as he disagreed with the policies of the radio's new director Henry de Lesquen. He has since then continued his activity as book publisher and as an online politics commentator. He also works for the anticommunist think tank \"Institut d'histoire sociale\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7838742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7838742", "title": "Joel Black", "text": "Joel Black\n\nJoel Black is a Professor of Comparative Literature at the University of Georgia in Athens, Georgia. Black has written extensively on subfields of literature and film studies areas such as romanticism, postmodernism, philosophy and history of science, and cultural studies. He is the author of \"The Aesthetics of Murder: A Study in Romantic Literature and Contemporary Culture\" (1991) and \"The Reality Effect: Film Culture and the Graphic Imperative\" (2002).\n\nIn 1972, Black completed his B.A. at Columbia College of Columbia University, and then one year later he finished his M.A. in English Literature, also at Columbia University. In the 1976-77 school year, Black won a fellowship called the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienststipendium, and in 1979, he won a Fellowship at the School of Criticism and Theory at the University of California at Irvine). In 1979, Black completed his Ph.D. in Comparative Literature at Stanford University.\n\nIn the 1982-83 school term, Black won an NEH Fellowship for Independent Study and Research, and in 1989, he won a Fulbright Travel Grant. In 1990, 1992, 1994–96, and 1998, Black won University of Georgia Faculty Research Grants, and in 1997, Black received the William Andrews Clark Memorial Library Fellowship.\n\nIn 1978-79, Black was an Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature at Hamilton College in New York state. From 1979 to 1982, Black was an Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. From 1983 to 1986, he was an Assistant Prof. of Comparative Literature at the University of Georgia.\n\nIn 1986, Black was promoted to Associate Professor at the University of Georgia. In 1986 and 1989, Black was a UGA Exchange Professor at Universitaire, Instelling Antwerpen, Antwerp, in Belgium. In 1990, Black was a Visiting Professor at Emory University. In 2003, Black was promoted to Professor of Comparative Literature at the University of Georgia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5180121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5180121", "title": "Le Statut des Moines", "text": "Le Statut des Moines\n\nLe Statut des Moines is a short French translation of Muslim jurist Ibn Taymiyyah's Mardin fatwa by Yahyah Michot, published in 1997, under the pseudonym of Nasreddin Lebatelier. The translation is considered a misprint and a gross misinterpretation of the original.\n\nIn 1996, the Algerian \"Groupe Islamique Armé\" (Armed Islamic Group or GIA) published an announcement that it considered lawful to murder seven Trappist monks in Tibhirine, under the fatwa.\n\nIn the misprint of a short fatwa on monks, Ibn Taymiyya is said to have argued that those in the religious orders who were found outside their monasteries might in certain circumstances be killed; they might also be killed if they had dealings with people outside their monastic community. However, in 2010, investigation proved that this fatwa was attributed to a misprint in 1909 edition of the fatwa which originally read \"dealt with\" instead of \"killed.\"\n\nNearly seven hundred years after it was written by Ibn Taymiyya, this tract was reprinted in 1997 in Beirut by Nasreddin Lebatelier (a pen name of Yahya Michot) under the title \"Le Statut des Moines\", with an introduction which discussed the Groupe Islamique Armé’s Communiqué no 43. To the justifications given by the killers, Michot opposed the consenus (ijmâ‘) of the Muslim community which clearly condemned them and he endorsed this consensus. He was nevertheless accused by Catholic authorities and media to have condoned the killing of the seven Trappists. Michot negotiated his departure from the University of Louvain, which paid him a financial indemnity, including 50% of his lawyer's fees. Once appointed as the first Muslim lecturer of Islamic theology in Oxford, Michot faced renewed Catholic hostility, notably in various articles by Margaret Hebblethwaite in The Tablet (22 and 29 August 1998; 12 September 1998) and in an interview of the same activist on BBC 4, Sunday program (27 September 1998). Oxford nevertheless confirmed his appointment.\n\nIn 2010, when new evidence emerged that the killings of the fatwa of Mardin were based on a 1909 misprint, that resulted him writing the erroneous translation \"Le Statut des Moines\", he distanced himself from condoning any killings by jihadist groups and denied ever having condoned the actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2583545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2583545", "title": "Library of Congress Subject Headings", "text": "Library of Congress Subject Headings\n\nThe Library of Congress Subject Headings (LCSH) comprise a thesaurus (in the information science sense, a controlled vocabulary) of subject headings, maintained by the United States Library of Congress, for use in bibliographic records. LC Subject Headings are an integral part of bibliographic control, which is the function by which libraries collect, organize and disseminate documents. It first appeared in year 1898, a year later to the publication of Library of Congress Classification(1897). The latest 38th edition was published in year 2016. LOC has ceased the print publication and a weekly updated list, supplement to the 38th edition is published. LCSHs are applied to every item within a library's collection, and facilitate a user's access to items in the catalogue that pertain to similar subject matter. If users could only locate items by 'title' or other descriptive fields, such as 'author' or 'publisher', they would have to expend an enormous amount of time searching for items of related subject matter, and undoubtedly miss locating many items because of the ineffective and inefficient search capability.\n\nSubject heading classification is a human and intellectual endeavor, where trained professionals apply topic descriptions to items in their collections. Naturally, every library may choose to categorize the subject matter of their items differently, without a uniform consentaneous standard. The widespread use and acceptance of the \"Library of Congress Subject Headings\" facilitates the uniform access and retrieval of items in any library in the world using the same search strategy and LCSH thesaurus, if the correct headings have been applied to the item by the library. Thus, LCSH decisions involve a great amount of debate and even controversy in the library community.\n\nDespite LCSH's wide-ranging and comprehensive scope, there are libraries where the use of LCSH is not ideal or effective. To deal with these types of collections and user communities, other subject headings may be required. The United States National Library of Medicine developed Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) to use on its many health science databases and collection. Many university libraries may not apply both LCSH and MeSH headings to items. In Canada, the National Library of Canada worked with LCSH representatives to create a complementary set of Canadian Subject Headings (CSH) to access and express the topic content of documents on Canada and Canadian topics.\n\nHistorically, issues have revolved around the terms employed to describe racial or ethnic groups. Notable has been the terms used to describe African-Americans. Until the 1990s, the LCSH administrators had a strict policy of not changing terms for a subject category. This was enforced to tighten and eliminate the duplication or confusion that might arise if subject headings were changed. Therefore, one term to describe African-American topics in LCSH was 'Afro-American' long after that term lost currency and acceptance in the population. LCSH decided to allow some alteration of terms in 1996 to better reflect the needs and access of library users. Nevertheless, many common terms, or 'natural language' terms are not used in LCSH, and may in effect limit the ability for users to locate items. There is a growing tradition of research in Library and Information Science faculties about the cultural and gender biases that affect the terms used in LCSH, which in turn may limit or deprive library users access to information stored and disseminated in collections. A notable American Library Science scholar on this subject is Sanford Berman.\n\nBerman has also pointed out the difficulty in finding material on certain topics, such as various denialisms, because the natural language terms for them, climate change denialism, for example, have not been incorporated into LCSH.\n\nCriticism has also arisen regarding the biased organization and description of materials on sexuality. Works about heterosexuality are scarcely labeled as such in LCSH, giving users the impression that only queer sexuality deserves examination because heterosexuality is normative.\n\nThe Subject Headings are published in large red volumes (currently ten), which are typically displayed in the reference sections of research libraries. They may also be searched online in the Library of Congress Classification Web, a subscription service, or free of charge (as individual records) at Library of Congress Authorities. The Library of Congress issues weekly updates. The data is published for a fee by the Cataloging Distribution Service.\n\nA web service, lcsh.info, was set up by Ed Summers, a Library of Congress employee, circa April 2008, using SKOS to allow for simple browsing of the subject headings. lcsh.info was shut down by the Library of Congress's order on December 18, 2008. This announcement was met with great dismay from the library science and semantic web communities, e.g. Tim Berners-Lee and Tim Spalding of LibraryThing. After some delay, the Library did set up its own web service for LCSH browsing at id.loc.gov in April 2009.\n\nTimothy Binga, Director of Libraries at the Center for Inquiry, notes issues that make it more difficult to use the standardized language of LCSH to find material. These include systems that allow patrons to informally tag materials in the catalog, book creators and publishers who do their own cataloging, and the incorrect application of LCSH to controversial material.\n\nIncreasingly, the use of hyperlinked, web-based Online Public Access Catalogues, or OPACs, allow users to hyperlink to a list of similar items displayed by LCSH once one item of interest is located. However, because LCSH are not necessarily expressed in natural language, many users may choose to search OPACs by keywords. Moreover, users unfamiliar with OPAC searching and LCSH, may incorrectly assume their library has no items on their desired topic, if they chose to search by 'subject' field, and the terms they entered do not strictly conform to a LCSH. For example, 'body temperature regulation' is used in place of 'thermoregulation'. Thus the easiest way to find and use LCSH is to start with a 'keyword' search and then look at the Subject Headings of a relevant item to locate other related material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1131985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1131985", "title": "Official National Front", "text": "Official National Front\n\nThe Official National Front (ONF) was one of two far-right groups to emerge in the United Kingdom in 1986 following a split within the National Front. Following ideological paths that were mostly new to the Far right in the United Kingdom, the ONF stood opposed to the more traditionalist Flag Group.\n\nThe ONF emerged in the early 1980s when young radicals such as Nick Griffin, Derek Holland, Patrick Harrington and David Kerr became attracted to Third Position ideas and, eschewing the route of electoral politics favoured by the National Front up to that point, hoped to develop a cadre of devoted nationalist revolutionaries. Emphasising a strong anti-capitalist as well as anti-communist line, the ONF began to emerge as the most powerful group within the NF after the series of splits in late 1979 and early 1980 though they did not come to prominence within the NF until 1984 when Martin Webster was expelled from the Party.\n\nThe Political Soldier faction began with the support of chairman Andrew Brons but before long differences between the two factions began to show. This came to a head in 1986 when the party split in two, with around 2,000 of the NF's 5,000 membership following Griffin into the ONF and the rest departing for the Flag Group. The ONF maintained the monthly newspaper the \"National Front News\" and took control also of \"Nationalism Today\" during this period. \n\nWith control assured the ONF took on responsibility for instructing its members ideologically and gained the backing of Rosine de Bounevialle, a veteran of the League of Empire Loyalists and the publisher of the anti-Semitic journal \"Candour\", who allowed these training seminars to be held on her Hampshire estate. Subsequently these were moved to specially prepared buildings on land owned by Nick Griffin's father Edgar.\n\nAided by Roberto Fiore, whose \"Terza Posizione\" held similar views, the ONF developed an ideology that stressed the need for a \"New Man\" with the cadre structure influenced by the \"nest\" system of the pre-Second World War Romanian Iron Guard. The two main sources of ideology for the ONF were the journal \"Rising\" published from 1983 to 1986 and \"The Political Soldier\", a 1984 book by Derek Holland. Within the pages of these works the ONF committed itself to a revolt against modernity, echoing many of the words of the likes of Corneliu Codreanu and Julius Evola. The party put emphasis on the values of ruralism with Nick Griffin, who lived on a farm in Wales, running a \"Smash the Cities\" campaign for the ONF that has been compared by Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke to Pol Potism.\n\nUnlike the earlier NF, that had emphasised British identity, the ONF showed sympathy towards indigenous nationalisms within the United Kingdom. The ONF adopted a policy of support for Ulster nationalism, a fringe idea within Northern Ireland, and through this shift forged links with the Ulster Defence Association and in particular John McMichael who was advocating such an idea at the time. Separate links were also maintained with sometime Democratic Unionist Party activist George Seawright who, although not avowedly an Ulster nationalist, was the brother of ONF activist David Seawright. Although there was no evidence of a direct connection between the two groups the ONF broke from the exclusively British nationalist vision of its predecessors to praise the activities of the Welsh nationalist Meibion Glyndŵr. \n\nThe desire for the development of a fanatical Political Soldier also led the ONF to follow their Italian counterparts in expressing some admiration for a similar fanaticism that they saw in Islam. This idea led to the publication of the most notorious issue of \"NF News\" which featured a cover extolling the 'new alliance' of the party with the Ayatollah Khomeini, Muammar Gaddafi and Louis Farrakhan, a previously unthinkable stance in the NF. During a march for Quds Day in 1988 Patrick Harrington and Graham Williamson took their place alongside a group of Islamic fundamentalists.\n\nThe 'scientific racism' that had been the cornerstone of NF ideas up to that point was abandoned by the ONF in favour of an emphasis on ethnopluralism and expressions of admiration for Black separatist leaders such as Farrakhan and Marcus Garvey, a new departure illustrated by the August 1987 edition of \"National Front News\" in which the slogan 'Black is beautiful' appeared. Copies of the Nation of Islam-linked newspaper \"The Final Call\" could also be purchased from the ONF.\n\nThe desire to build a Political Soldier leadership meant that the ONF was by its nature exclusive and limited. Membership in its strictest sense was effectively closed off with outsiders only allowed to become \"Friends of the Movement\" and full membership being only open to those chosen by the leadership. The ideas held less appeal for the racist skinheads that the ONF still had links with. The ONF saw the skinheads as a source of eager foot-soldiers for their revolutionary struggles, a factor that led the ONF to host Rock Against Communism concerts in the mid-1980s. However, disillusionment set in with the ONF's esoteric ideas and in 1987 sometime NF member and Skrewdriver singer Ian Stuart Donaldson joined with British Movement organiser Nicky Crane to set up Blood and Honour, initially as a magazine before developing it into a movement for White power bands independent of the parties. The departure of these groups also meant a loss of one of the ONF's main sources of revenue and the split proved fairly divisive with B&H supporters dubbing the ONF the \"Nutty Fairy Party\" due to their unusual ideas and rumours of homosexuality within the leadership. The split came at a bad time as membership had already been curtailed by the decision in 1986 to double the price of membership fees and to restrict membership to those considered worthy of Political Soldier status by the leadership. The group's devotion to the likes of Evola and Codreanu also damaged its chances as these thinkers were virtually unknown in Britain and as such the ONF's ideas were considered too foreign to be relevant to a British context.\n\nIn an attempt to gain much needed funds, Griffin and Holland travelled to Libya in 1988 in the hope of persuading Muammar Gaddafi to provide money to bankroll the ONF. However, the pair were able to secure only a consignment of copies of the colonel's political testament \"The Green Book\", meaning that the group's financial woes were not alleviated. Breaking from its own ban on electoral activity, Harrington ran as a candidate in the Vauxhall by-election, 1989, during which his rival candidates included the Flag Group's Ted Budden, who confusingly was standing as a \"National Front\" candidate. Both men received derisory vote shares.\n\nIn 1989 Harrington, who was by then effective leader of the group, approached \"The Jewish Chronicle\" with a view to opening dialogue with the Jewish community. The move proved unpopular with Griffin and Holland who broke off in 1989 to form the International Third Position (ITP), which advocated anti-capitalist Strasserist views, as well as continuing anti-Zionism. With the ONF in disarray, Harrington (by then effective leader, although the ONF had eschewed an individual leader at their peak) wound up the group in January 1990 and reconstituted it, along with about fifty NF members, as the Third Way, which continued to offer a programme akin to that of the Political Soldier movement. The Flag Group, led by Martin Wingfield and Ian Anderson, reclaimed the NF name and identity and sought to reposition the NF once again by following the example of the base itself on the \"Front National\", which was experiencing growth in France through right-wing populism.\n"}
{"id": "58826725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58826725", "title": "Patricia Kern Holmgren", "text": "Patricia Kern Holmgren\n\nPatricia Holmgren (née Kern) is an American botanist. Holmgren's main botanical interests are the flora of the U.S. intermountain west and the genera \"Tiarella\" and \"Thlaspi\". Holmgren was the director of the herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden from 1981-2000, and editor of \"Index Herbariorum\" from 1974-2008. \n\nPatricia May Kern was born to Robert Evan Kern (1919-2004) and Ruth Eleanor Beaudoin Kern (1921-1992) in 1940, in Athens, Indiana. Her parents began raising Christmas trees in 1946, and Holmgren spent part of her summers trimming trees and weekends in the fall and winter helping with the business. Holmgren was introduced to nature at an early age; through her father's conservation work on their property, and during family vacations to western national parks during the farm's off-season. From fifth grade to her high school graduation, Holmgren was active in 4-H, winning many contests in forestry and sewing. \n\nHolmgren attended high school at Rochester High School in Rochester, Indiana, graduating in 1958 as valedictorian. Holmgren attended Indiana University, getting a B.S. in 1962. She later attended the University of Washington, completing a M.S. in 1964 and a Ph.D. in 1968. At the University of Washington, Holmgren completed a systematic study of \"Tiarella\" (Saxifragaceae) with advisor Arthur R. Kruckeberg. She remained at the University of Washington for her Ph.D., a systematic study of the \"Thlaspi montanum\" (Brassicaceae) group, with advisor C. Leo Hitchcock. In addition to her own research, Holmgren became chief editorial assistant during the preparation of the last two volumes of the \"Vascular Plants of the Pacific Northwest\" with Hitchcock. \n\nPatricia married fellow botanist Noel H. Holmgren in 1969. \n\nAfter completing her Ph.D. at the University of Washington, Holmgren accepted a job as herbarium specialist at the New York Botanical Garden (NYBG) in 1968. Holmgren spent her entire working career at NYBG, eventually becoming the Director of the Herbarium in 1981, a position she held until her retirement in 2000. As director of The William and Lynda Steere Herbarium, Holmgren insisted on the highest possible standards for specimen management and for keeping the herbarium in the forefront on new innovations (such as the creation of an online \"Index Herbariorum\" and development of the C.V. Starr Virtual Herbarium). Holmgren was also instrumental in conception, fundraising, and design of a new, state-of-the-art building to house the herbarium, the International Plant Science Center, which officially opened for research in 2002. Holmgren continues to work at the garden as Director Emerita of the herbarium. \n\nIn addition to her herbarium leadership, Holmgren played an active role in a number of botanical societies and botanical journals: \n\n\nPatricia Holmgren and Noel Holmgren were instrumental to the completion of \"Intermountain Flora: Vascular Plants of the Intermountain West, U.S.A.\", a nine volume flora on the vascular plants of the western United States between the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada ranges\".\" In addition to collecting many herbarium specimens that would provide the baseline data for descriptions and geographic distributions; Patricia was involved in editing, proofreading, and writing family treatments for the flora. \n\n\n\n\nThe Patricia and Noel Holmgren Collection [Holmgren (RG4)]. Archives, The LuEsther T. Mertz Library, The New York Botanical Garden. \n"}
{"id": "18302357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302357", "title": "Pueblo linguistic area", "text": "Pueblo linguistic area\n\nThe Pueblo linguistic area (or Pueblo Sprachbund, Pueblo convergence area) is a Sprachbund (group of languages with similarities due to language contact) consisting of the language spoken in and near North American Pueblo locations. There are also many shared cultural practices in this area. For example, these cultures share many ceremonial vocabulary terms meant for prayer or song.\n\nThe languages of the linguistic area are the following:\n\n\nThe languages belong to five different families: Zuni, Tanoan, Keresan, Uto-Aztecan (Hopi), and\nAthabaskan (Navajo, from the Apachean subfamily). Zuni is a language isolate.\nNavajo is only a marginal member of the Sprachbund and does not share all its linguistic features, as the ancestors of the Navajo originated from Canada and Alaska and were relatively recent newcomers to the Southwest. Languages in the Tanoan and Apachean families, and additionally Hopi, can be compared to relatives not affected by this particular region's areal features as a reference for changes due to contact.\n\nTanoan consists of Taos, Picurís, Tewa, and Jemez. Keresan consists of Eastern Keres and Western Keres.\n\nThe following are the shared linguistic traits of the Pueblo Sprachbund:\n\n\nMost languages have ejectives. Zuni may have developed ejectives due to contact with Tanoan and Keresan which both have complete series of ejectives: Zuni has but lacks the ejectives found in the other languages. Taos and Picurís (both Tanoan) have ; Tewa (Tanoan) has ; Jemez (Tanoan) has ; Keresan has (as well as glottalized sonorants ). Hopi lacks ejectives completely. Navajo has . \n\nNavajo may have acquired the stop /kʷ/ from Puebloan contact.\nSherzer suggests that contact led to Acoma Keres sharing glottalized sonorants and glides with Navajo.\n\nZuni may have obtained its partial glottalized set and aspirants via contact with Tanoan and Keresan, which both have fully integrated series of glottals.\n\nOther shared traits include Santa Clara acquiring retroflex sounds from Keresan and the Navajo acquiring /hʷ/ from Tanoan contact. Keresan may be the common source of glottalized nasals and semivowels in Navajo, and the development of /r/ in dialects of Tewa and Tiwa and possibly Hopi.\n\nLinguist Paul Kroskrity argues for diffused Apachean traits in Tewa, such as the passive marked by prefixes that are structured differently from those of other Tanoan languages. In these languages the verb is made intransitive by allowing an agent argument in the verb structure. This also includes patient subjects and cases where the subject must be animate, including raising animate objects to the place of inanimate subjects. Further, Navajo and Tewa are the only languages in this group to have a \"recognizable anaphor as a relativizer\" when forming relative clauses. Kroskrity also finds similarity in the Tewa possessive suffix -bí, which parallels the third person possessive prefix bi- found in Apachean languages. This can be seen in the following example provided by Kroskrity:\n\nThis paralleling morpheme is also used in these languages' postpositional constructions. The reason for this diffusion has been attributed to trade networks and Apachean settlements near Pueblos in winter months.\n\nSherzer suggests that the 2-2-1 vowel system found in Tanoan languages (i, e, a, o, u) may be a result of contact with Zuni and Keresan language families. Sherzer states, \"A 2-2-1 vowel system is a Pueblo-cintered regional areal trait. Its development in some Tanoan languages may be due to contact with Zuni and Keresan.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2480562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2480562", "title": "Reusable Asset Specification", "text": "Reusable Asset Specification\n\nReusable Asset Specification is an Object Management Group standard to package digital artifacts.\nThe specification is a set of guidelines and recommendations about the structure, content, and descriptions\nof reusable software assets.\nThe main purpose of RAS is to increase the reusability of the software assets by encouraging reliable consistent and standard packaging.\n\n"}
{"id": "1462059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462059", "title": "Sam Muchnick", "text": "Sam Muchnick\n\nSam Muchnick (August 22, 1905 – December 30, 1998) was an American professional wrestling promoter from St. Louis, Missouri. He is often regarded as wrestling's equivalent of Pete Rozelle (the forward-thinking commissioner who revolutionized the NFL), and he was instrumental in establishing the National Wrestling Alliance, which became the industry's top governing body, in 1948. Muchnick served as the NWA's president from 1950 to 1960 and again from 1963 to 1975. He operated the St. Louis Wrestling Club, one of the primary members of the NWA based in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nMuchnick was born in Ukraine to a Jewish family on August 22, 1905, but moved to the United States in 1911. He grew up in St. Louis, and his name was changed to \"Samuel\" when his father decided that \"Jeshua\" (Jesus or Joshua) was an inappropriate name for a Jewish child. While attending school, he worked various jobs to help out his family before earning his high school degree (though he ditched his graduation to attend a live wrestling event at the Odeon Theatre, where he watched the great Wladek Zbyszko in action). In 1924, he took a job with the U.S. Postal Service; and in 1926, he joined the sports staff at the \"St. Louis Times\" newspaper, where he covered the St. Louis Cardinals baseball team while developing many influential acquaintances (including Babe Ruth, Al Capone, and others). Muchnick also covered professional wrestling, where he formed a friendship with Tom Packs, who was the Midwest's top sports promoter. In 1932, the Times merged with the rival \"St. Louis Star\", and Muchnick left the paper for a position as Packs' publicist, where he handled public relations, finances, and even booking duties.\n\nFor nine years, Muchnick served as Tom Packs' right-hand man while learning the ropes under one of the nation's most powerful promoters. However, Muchnick was insulted when Packs awarded him a paltry $200 bonus following the duo's successful promotion of the Joe Louis vs. Tony Musto heavyweight title bout in April 1941 (a fight that drew profits of $14,000). Muchick then decided to leave his mentor when longtime wrestling champion Jim Londos (who was also on the outs with Packs) convinced him to start his own organization. Despite facing heavy resistance from Packs (who possessed much political clout with the State Athletic Commission), Muchnick promoted his first shows in May 1942 before enlisting in the Air Force during World War II. Upon returning, Muchnick continued to face competitive pressures from Packs; though he filed several court injunctions to promote his first show at St. Louis' renowned Kiel Auditorium on December 5, 1945. With the help of maverick Ohio promoter Jack Pfefer (who sent Sam several wrestlers to help him get started), Muchnick drew 3,771 fans to the arena while featuring such veteran wrestling stars as Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis, Roy Dunn, and others.\n\nOver the next few years, Muchnick was often forced to use old-timers past their primes as Packs employed most of the top talent (including reigning World Champion Lou Thesz). Then in mid-1948, Muchnick was approached by Iowa's Pinky George and Minnesota's Tony Stecher about forming a new wrestling union. Up until this time, all pro wrestling regulations had come from the National Wrestling Association, which was made up of various athletic commissions. Their idea was to form a coalition of promoters, which would then share the bookings of the World Champion and top wrestlers, while also splitting the gate draws. As a result, on July 19, 1948, Muchnick met with fellow promoters Pinky George, Wally Karbo (representing Tony Stecher), Orville Brown, Max Clayton, and Al Haft at the President Hotel in Waterloo, Iowa to form what was named the National Wrestling Alliance. Pinky George was named the organization's first President while Orville Brown was subsequently recognized as the first NWA World Heavyweight Champion. Shortly thereafter, Muchnick became the beneficiary of talent exchanges with various territories that joined the NWA. As a result, he was then able to secure the services of an innovative young heel named \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Rogers, who had previously been wrestling in Jack Pfefer's Toledo, Ohio territory. Rogers' outspoken persona and charismatic personality allowed him to outdraw even the great Lou Thesz (who by now had taken over much of Tom Packs' operation) while adding legitimacy to Muchnick's company. Eventually, the two St. Louis groups would merge while starting a promotional war angle; and Muchnick kept a controlling interest in the territory by holding two percentage points more than Thesz. Then on November 27, 1949, Thesz unified the National Wrestling Association and National Wrestling Alliance World Titles after Brown was injured in an auto accident prior to their scheduled match.\n\nIn 1950, Sam Muchnick was named the new President of the NWA, a position to which he was unanimously re-elected for the next nine years due to the immense trust that he inspired among the various members of the organization. With Muchnick at the helm, the NWA became the dominant governing body in pro wrestling, as nearly every major wrestling territory across the country joined the Alliance in order to gain access to the treasure chest that was the NWA World Heavyweight Champion, who was universally recognized as the industry's premier star. Under Muchnick's leadership, the NWA would also donate thousands of dollars to help fund the U.S. Olympic Wrestling Team. Then in the late 1950s, Sam Muchnick formed the St. Louis Wrestling Club while producing a new television program titled \"Wrestling at the Chase\" on KPLR-TV, which ran from May 23, 1959 to September 10, 1983. There were approximately 1,100 episodes made during that time span. The show would become one of the most popular local productions in St. Louis television history as it turned pro wrestling into a nationally popular entertainment while bringing the many stars of the NWA into the homes of its fans.\n\nBy 1960, Sam Muchnick stepped aside as NWA President so that the organization could benefit from new ideas. He served as executive secretary under Frank Tunney, Fred Kohler, and Karl \"Doc\" Sarpolis. Consequently, Muchnick was unanimously re-installed as NWA President in 1963 and held the office until 1975, thus contributing a total of 25 years as the industry's most influential promoter. During his second reign, Muchnick maintained the NWA’s position as wrestling's top power while he also displayed an uncanny eye for scouting future talent, as his St. Louis territory groomed such eventual champions as Johnny Valentine, Gene Kiniski, Harley Race, Dory Funk Jr. and Terry Funk, Ric Flair, and many others. Moreover, he expanded the NWA globally by inking agreements with territories in Mexico, the Far East, Europe, and the Caribbean.\n\nMuchnick promoted his last card on January 1, 1982, which was subsequently named \"Sam Muchnick Day\" in St. Louis by Mayor Vincent Schoemehl. Shortly afterward, the St. Louis Wrestling Club was purchased by Bob Geigel, Pat O'Connor and Harley Race. Muchnick's former announcer and general manager Larry Matysik formed his own completing promotion in St. Louis around the same time. A year later, the WWF made a deal with Matysik which brought them into St. Louis and gave them the former TV timeslot of \"Wrestling At The Chase\". In 1985, the St. Louis Wrestling Club was sold to Jim Crockett Jr. and absorbed into what eventually became World Championship Wrestling. At WWF In Your House Badd Blood 1997, he was honored as a St. Louis legend.\n\nMuchnick died on December 30, 1998, in St. Louis. He was 93.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55983628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55983628", "title": "Skirball Fire", "text": "Skirball Fire\n\nThe Skirball Fire was a wildfire that burned in the Bel Air neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, United States, and one of multiple wildfires that broke out across Southern California in December 2017. The fire burned 422 acres (171 ha) of land on the slopes of the Sepulveda Pass on its east or Bel Air side, causing the closure of Interstate 405 (as well as the parallel Sepulveda Boulevard), a major traffic artery in the city. The Skirball Cultural Center, Bel-Air Country Club, Getty Center, Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District, and various private schools were closed as a result of the fire. Classes were cancelled at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and Santa Monica College, while Mount Saint Mary’s University evacuated from its Brentwood campus to its downtown Los Angeles location. The fire destroyed 6 structures and damaged 12. On December 10, at about 1 PM PST, all evacuation orders and road closures for the Skirball Fire were lifted, as containment of the wildfire increased to 85%. Late on December 15, it was reported that the Skirball Fire had been 100% contained, at .\n\nOn December 12, it was reported on that the fire had been sparked by an illegal cooking fire at a homeless encampment within the pass.\n\nDuring the Skirball Fire, firefighters in the LAFD employed drones to help them combat wildfires for the first time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "638313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=638313", "title": "Supermajority", "text": "Supermajority\n\nA supermajority or supra-majority or a qualified majority, is a requirement for a proposal to gain a specified level of support which is greater than the threshold of more than one-half used for majority.\n\nRelated concepts regarding alternatives to the majority vote requirement include a majority of the entire membership and a majority of the fixed membership.\n\nA supermajority can also be specified based on the entire membership or fixed membership rather than on those present and voting.\n\nParliamentary procedure requires that any action of a deliberative assembly that may alter the rights of a minority has a supermajority requirement, such as a two-thirds vote.\n\nChanges to constitutions, especially those with entrenched clauses, commonly require supermajority support in a legislature.\n\nThe first known use of a supermajority rule was in the 100s BCE in ancient Rome.\n\nPope Alexander III introduced the use of supermajority rule for papal elections at the Third Lateran Council in 1179.\n\nIn the Democratic Party of the United States, the determination of a presidential nominee once required the votes of two-thirds of delegates to the Democratic National Convention. This rule was adopted in the party's first presidential nominating convention—the 1832 Democratic National Convention. The two-thirds rule gave southern Democrats an effective veto over any presidential nominee for many years, until the rule's abolition at the 1936 Democratic National Convention.\n\nA majority vote, or more than half the votes cast, is a common voting basis. Instead of the basis of a majority, a supermajority can be specified using any fraction or percentage which is greater than one-half (i.e., 50%). It can also be called a qualified majority. Common supermajorities include three fifths (60%), two thirds (67%), and three quarters (75%).\n\nA two-thirds vote, when unqualified, means two-thirds or more of the votes cast. This voting basis is equivalent to the number of votes in favor being at least twice the number of votes against. Abstentions and absences are excluded in calculating a two-thirds vote.\n\nThe two-thirds requirement can be qualified to include the entire membership of a body instead of only those present and voting, but such a requirement must be explicitly stated (such as \"two-thirds of those members duly elected and sworn\"). In this case, abstentions and absences count as votes against the proposal.\n\nAlternatively, the voting requirement could be specified as \"two-thirds of those present\", which has the effect of counting abstentions but not absences as votes against the proposal.\n\nFor example, say an organization has 150 members and at a meeting, 30 members are present with 25 votes cast. In this case, a \"two-thirds vote\" would be 17. If the requirement was \"two-thirds of those present\", that number would be 20. \"Two-thirds of the entire membership\" would be 100.\n\nAnother type of supermajority is three-fifths (60 percent). This requirement could also be qualified to include the entire membership or to include those present.\n\nIn 2006, the Constitution of Florida was amended to require a 60% majority to pass new constitutional amendments by popular vote.\n\nFor the Montenegrin independence referendum held in 2006 the European Union envoy Miroslav Lajčák proposed independence if a 55% supermajority of votes are cast in favor with a minimum turnout of 50%. Such procedure, ultimately accepted by the government of Montenegro, was somewhat criticized as overriding the traditional practice of requiring a two-third supermajority, as practiced in all ex Yugoslav countries before (including the previous referendum in Montenegro).\n\nIn 2016, the Constitution of Colorado was amended to require a 55% majority to pass new constitutional amendments by popular vote.\n\nRelated concepts regarding alternatives to the majority vote requirement include a \"majority of the entire membership\" and a \"majority of the fixed membership\".\n\nA majority of the entire membership is a voting basis that requires that more than half of all the members of a body (including those absent and those present but not voting) vote in favor of a proposition in order for it to be passed. In practical terms, it means an absence or an abstention from voting is equivalent to a \"no\" vote. It may be contrasted with a majority vote which only requires more than half of those actually voting to approve a proposition for it to be enacted. An absolute majority may also be the same as a majority of the entire membership, although this usage is not consistent.\n\nIn addition, a supermajority could be specified in this voting basis, such as a vote of \"two-thirds of the entire membership\".\n\nBy way of illustration, in February 2007 the Italian Government fell after it won a vote in the Italian Senate by 158 votes to 136 (with 24 abstentions). The government needed an absolute majority in the 318 member house but fell two votes short of the required 160 when two of its own supporters abstained.\n\nA majority of the fixed membership is based on the total number of the established fixed membership of the deliberative assembly. It is used only when a specific number of seats or memberships is established in the rules governing the organization.\n\nA majority of the fixed membership would be different from a majority of the entire membership if there are vacancies.\n\nFor example, say a board has 12 seats. If the board has the maximum number of members, or 12 members, a majority of the entire membership and a majority of the fixed membership would be 7 members. However, if there are two vacancies (so that there are only 10 members on the board), then a majority of the entire membership would be 6 members (more than half of 10), but a majority of the fixed membership would still be 7 members.\n\nIt is possible for organizations that use a majority of the fixed membership to be caught in a stalemate if at least half the membership consists of vacancies, making it impossible to perform any actions until those vacancies are filled. The requirement for a minimum number of members to be present in order to conduct business, called a quorum, may be used to avoid such a possibility.\n\nSimilar to the voting basis for the entire membership, a supermajority could be specified for this basis, such as a vote of \"two-thirds of the fixed membership\".\n\nParliamentary procedure requires that any action that may alter the rights of a minority has a supermajority requirement. \"Robert's Rules of Order\" states:This book also states:\n\nIn Canada, most constitutional amendments can be passed only if identical resolutions are adopted by the House of Commons, the Senate and two thirds or more of the provincial legislative assemblies representing at least 50 percent of the national population.\n\nArticle 20 of the Constitution of Denmark states that if the government or parliament wants to cede parts of national sovereignty to an international body such as the European Union or the United Nations, it has to get a five sixths majority in the Folketing (150 out of 179 seats). If the government or parliament are only able to get a simple majority, they have to hold a referendum on the question.\n\nThe Council of the European Union uses 'Qualified majority voting' for the majority of issues brought before the institution. However, for matters of extreme importance for individual member states, unanimous voting is implemented.\n\nAfter the accession of Croatia, on 1 July 2013, at least 260 votes out of a total of 352 by at least 15 member states were required for legislation to be adopted by qualified majority.\n\nFrom 1 July 2013, the pass condition translated into:\n\nRequirements to reach an absolute majority is a common feature of voting in the European Parliament (EP) where under the ordinary legislative procedure the EP is required to act by an absolute majority if it is to either amend or reject proposed legislation.\n\nArticle 368 of the Indian Constitution requires a supermajority of two-thirds of members present and voting in each house of Indian Parliament, subject to at least by a majority of the total membership of each House of Parliament, to amend the constitution. In addition, in matters affecting the states and judiciary, at least two thirds of all the states need to ratify the amendment.\n\nThe Rome Statute may only be amended by a seven-eighths majority of participating states.\n\nAmendments to the constitution require a two-thirds majority in both houses of the National Diet and a simple majority in a referendum.\n\nUnder the 1999 constitution, election of principal officers of the National Assembly, or a state House of Assembly requires a two-thirds majority of members present during the session. Voting on legislation also requires a two-thirds majority. An exception exists for laws on the exclusive schedule of the federal constitution such as state and local government creation/addition. Changes require the approval of at least two-thirds of the state Houses of Assembly and both houses of the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority in each house. \n\nLegislative veto of the executive at either state or federal government level requires a two-thirds majority of the corresponding legislative assembly. The same requirements are needed to impeach a sitting president or state governor. \n\nUnder the 1987 Constitution of the Philippines, a two-thirds majority of both houses of the Congress of the Philippines (the House and the Senate) meeting in joint session is required to declare war. A two-thirds majority of both Houses is required to override a presidential veto. A two-thirds vote of both chambers of Congress voting separately is required to designate the vice president as acting president in the event that a majority of the Cabinet certifies that the president is \"unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office\" but the president declares that no such inability exists. A two-thirds vote of either chamber is required to suspend or expel a member from that chamber.\n\nUnder the 1987 Constitution, \"The Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of all its Members, call a constitutional convention, or by a majority vote of all its Members, submit to the electorate the question of calling such a convention.\" A three-fourths vote of all the members of the Congress is required to propose an amendment to the Constitution; the proposed amendment is submitted to the people for ratification (by a majority of the votes cast) in a plebiscite.\n\nA two-thirds majority of the Senate is required to ratify treaties, and to remove an impeached official from office. Impeachment by the House, which is the required first step in the removal process, only requires one-third of Representatives to sign a petition (specifically a verified complaint or resolution of impeachment).\n\nThe approval of three-fifths of legislators is required before a bill can be put to a vote in the National Assembly, in order to prevent the ruling party pass laws without the support of opposition party.\n\nThe 1978 Constitution states that a three-fifths majority in both Congress of Deputies and Senate of Spain is needed to pass a constitutional reform, but if a two-thirds majority is reached in the Congress of Deputies, an absolute majority of senators is enough to pass the proposal.\n\nNevertheless, when a new Constitution is proposed, or when the proposal's goal is to reform the Preliminary Title, the Chapter on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms or the Title on the Crown, the supermajority becomes significantly harder:\n\nThe first way has been used twice (1992 and 2011), but the second has been never used.\n\nSpanish Constitution states other supermajorities:\n\nEach Spanish Autonomous Community has her own Statute of Autonomy, that works as a kind of Constitution subject to the 1978 Constitution and national powers.\n\nThe Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands states that its Economic and Fiscal Regime and the Electoral Law need a two-thirds majority of the Parliament to be modified.\n\nOn its behalf, the Ombudsman needs a three-fifth majority to be appointed.\n\nAlso, if two-thirds of the MPs from a circumpscription votes for a veto against a law project, it must be posposed to the following session.\n\nBefore the Additional Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of China in 2005, the constitution amendments need to be passed by the National Assembly. Since the Additional Articles ratified on June 7, 2005, the National Assembly is replaced by the Legislative Yuan. Amendments of the constitution need to be passed by three quarters of the members of Legislative Yuan, with more than half (50%) of voters hold referendums to approve the amendments.\n\nThe House of Commons (UK) can be dissolved and an election held before the expiry of its 5-year term by a vote of two-thirds of the membership of the House of Commons since 2011 under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011.\n\nThis is the only supermajority required in the British Constitution.\n\nHowever, Parliament can also be dissolved if the House of Commons passes a motion of no-confidence in the government and no new government wins a motion of confidence within two weeks of the original vote of no-confidence.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council requires a supermajority of the fixed membership on substantive matters (procedural matters require a simple majority of those present and voting). According to Article 27 of the United Nations Charter, at least nine of the Security Council's 15 members (i.e., a three-fifths supermajority) must vote in favor of a draft resolution in order to achieve passage. Specifying the fixed membership has the effect of making abstentions count as votes against—absences are not normal but would be treated the same way.\n\nThis is useful for the five permanent members of the Council (the United States, the Russian Federation, China, the United Kingdom, and France) because a vote against from any one of them constitutes a veto, which cannot be overridden. Permanent members who do not support a measure, but are unwilling to be seen to block it against the wishes of the majority of the Council, tend to abstain; abstentions by veto powers are generally seen by close observers of the UN as the equivalent of not vetoing votes against and have the same impact on the decision of the Security Council.\n\nThe Constitution of the United States requires supermajorities in order for certain significant actions to occur.\n\nAmendments to the Constitution may be proposed in one of two ways: a two-thirds supermajority votes of each house of United States Congress or a convention called by Congress on application of two thirds (currently 34) of the states. Once proposed, the amendment must be ratified by three quarters (currently 38) of the states (either through the State legislatures, or ratification conventions, whichever \"mode of ratification\" Congress selects).\n\nCongress may pass bills by simple majority votes. If the president vetoes a bill, Congress may override the veto by a two-thirds supermajority of both houses.\n\nA treaty must be ratified by a two-thirds supermajority of the Senate to enter into force and effect.\n\nSection 4 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution gives Congress a role to play in the event of a presidential disability. If the vice president and a majority of the president's cabinet declares that the president is unable to serve in that role, the vice president becomes acting president. Within 21 days of such a declaration (or, if Congress is in recess when a president is disabled, 21 days after Congress reconvenes), Congress must vote by two-thirds supermajorities to continue the disability declaration; otherwise, such declaration expires after the 21 days and the president would at that time \"resume\" discharging all of the powers and duties of the office. While Section 3 of this amendment (in which the president declares that they are unable to discharge the powers and duties of the Presidency) has been invoked three times, Section 4 has yet to be invoked.\n\nThe House may, by a simple majority vote, impeach a federal official (such as, but not limited to, the president, vice president, or a federal judge). Removal from office (and optional disqualification from any Federal, State or local office) requires a two-thirds supermajority of the Senate. In 1842, the House failed to impeach president John Tyler. In 1868, the Senate fell one vote short of removing president Andrew Johnson following his impeachment. In 1999, efforts to remove Bill Clinton following his impeachment in 1998 fell just short of a simple majority, and 17 votes short of the two-thirds supermajority. The impeachment procedure was last used in 2010, when Judge Thomas Porteous was removed from office. Each chamber may expel one of its own members by a two-thirds supermajority vote; this last happened when the House expelled James Traficant in 2002.\n\nA two-thirds supermajority in the Senate is 67 out of 100 senators, while a two-thirds supermajority in the House is 290 out of 435 representatives. However, since many votes take place without every seat in the House filled and representative participating, it does not often require 67 senators or 290 representatives to achieve this supermajority.\n\nApart from these constitutional requirements, a Senate rule (except in cases covered by the nuclear option, or of a rule change) requires an absolute supermajority of three fifths to move to a vote through a cloture motion, which closes debate on a bill or nomination, thus ending a filibuster by a minority of members. In current practice, the mere threat of a filibuster prevents passing almost any measure that has less than three-fifths agreement in the Senate, 60 of the 100 senators if every seat is filled.\n\nFor state legislatures in the United States, \"Mason's Manual\" says, \"A deliberative body cannot by its own act or rule require a two-thirds vote to take any action where the constitution or controlling authority requires only a majority vote. To require a two-thirds vote, for example, to take any action would be to give to any number more than one-third of the members the power to defeat the action and amount to a delegation of the powers of the body to a minority.\" Some states require a supermajority for passage of a constitutional amendment or statutory initiative.\n\nMany state constitutions allow or require amendments to their own constitutions to be proposed by supermajorities of the state legislature; these amendments must usually be approved by the voters at one or more subsequent elections. Michigan, for instance, allows the Legislature to propose an amendment to the Michigan Constitution; it must then be ratified by the voters at the next general election (unless a special election is called).\n\nIn most states, the state legislature may override a governor's veto of legislation. In most states, a two-thirds supermajority of both chambers is required. However, in some states (e.g., Illinois, Maryland and North Carolina), only a three-fifths supermajority is required, while in West Virginia only a normal majority is needed.\n\nOne common provision of so-called \"taxpayer bill of rights\" laws (either in state statutes or state constitutions) is a requirement of a supermajority vote in the state legislature to increases taxes. The National Conference of State Legislatures reported in 2010 that fifteen states required a supermajority vote (either a three-fifths, two-thirds or three-fourths majority vote in both chambers) to pass some or all tax increases. Supermajority requirements for tax increases have been criticized as \"deeply flawed\" by a report by the progressive Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, since such requirements make it difficult to close tax loopholes, empower a minority of legislators, make it difficult to fund transportation infrastructure, and may encourage pork-barrel spending as a trade-off to ensure passage of a tax increase (see logrolling).\n\n"}
{"id": "39147876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39147876", "title": "Talismans in the Bábí and Bahá'í Faiths", "text": "Talismans in the Bábí and Bahá'í Faiths\n\nTalismans are referred to in several of the writings of the Báb, founder of the Bábí Faith, and to a lesser extent in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nA \"Da'ira\" ( \"circle\") is a symbolic circular talisman for women described by the Báb. For men he instructed the use of a \"Haykal\" (\"temple\"), a five-pointed star. Nader Saiedi explains that these terms should not be interpreted too literally, and that one should focus on their spiritual meaning. The Haykal is a symbol for the Manifestation of God, while the circle refers to the \"Sun of Truth,\" another term for the Manifestation of God. Their purpose is constant awareness of the symbolic meanings, and to help the Bábís to recognize \"He whom God shall make manifest\" when he would appear.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, who claimed to be the one promised by the Báb, de-emphasized this type of esoteric elements of Bábism (including alchemy ) and stressed rationality. He states for example \"Man is the supreme Talisman. Lack of a proper education hath, however, deprived him of that which he doth inherently possess.\" Bahá'í scholar Udo Schaefer states that Bahá’u’lláh uses the talisman as a metaphor, and that humans possess two properties of a talisman when they try \"to follow their true spiritual vocation\". They have the capacity to do good deeds and attract blessings, and are able to ward off evil from themselves or others.\n\nThere are some Bahá'í prayers that offer talismanic protection, for example, the \"Long Healing Prayer\". 'Abdu'l-Bahá stated that the Greatest Name offers protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2557960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2557960", "title": "Tao of Jeet Kune Do", "text": "Tao of Jeet Kune Do\n\nTao of Jeet Kune Do is a book expressing Bruce Lee's martial arts philosophy and viewpoints, published posthumously (after Bruce Lee's death in 1973). The project for this book began in 1970 when Bruce Lee suffered a back injury during one of his practice sessions. During this time he could not train in martial arts. He was ordered by his doctors to wear a back brace for 6 months in order to recover from his injury. This was a very tiring and dispiriting time for Lee who was always very physically active.\n\nIt was during his convalescence that he decided to compile a treatise on the system or approach to martial arts that he was developing; he called it Jeet Kune Do. The bulk of these writings would become the \"core set of writings\". Many of these writings were done during a single session which provided natural continuity. Lee had also kept various notes throughout the development of his combat philosophy and these would become the disparate notes used in the book. Many of these notes were \"sudden inspirations\" which were incomplete and lacked any kind of a construct. The combination of the \"core set of writings\" and the \"disparate notes\" would be known as the text \"Tao of Jeet Kune Do\".\n\nIn 1971, it was Lee's intent to finish the treatise that he started during his convalescence. However, his film career and work prevented him from doing so. He also vacillated about publishing his book as he felt that this work might be used for the wrong purposes. Lee's intent in writing the book was to record one man's way of thinking about the martial arts. It was to be a guidebook not a set of instructions or \"How to\" manual to learn martial arts.\n\nIn 1975, after Bruce Lee's death, his widow Linda Lee Cadwell decided to make available the information her husband had collected. Lee's untimely death changed the perspective of releasing the information that Bruce Lee had vacillated about. The \"core writings\" and various notes were put together in a logical fashion by various editors. The main editor was Gilbert L. Johnson. Johnson along with Linda Lee, Dan Inosanto and other students of Bruce Lee helped him understand Jeet Kune Do well enough to editorialize and organize Lee's material into text.\n\nThe book is dedicated to: \"The Free, Creative Martial Artist\". Lee's wife, Linda Lee Cadwell holds the copyright to the book. The book is attributed to Bruce Lee as his notes and work were used to compile the book. It is important to understand that although Lee's material was utilized it was not organized by him; therefore Bruce Lee was not strictly its author.\n\n\"Tao of Jeet Kune Do\" was compiled posthumously from Bruce Lee's personal notes, some of which were in turn copied from Bruce Lee's personal library of martial arts and philosophical books. Ohara Publications has acknowledged Edwin Haislet, Hugo and James Castello, Roger Crosnier and Julio Castello as original sources. After the book's initial publication, additional passages were discovered to have been sourced from the works of D.T. Suzuki, Eric Hoffer, and other authors. \nMany of Bruce Lee's statements are derived from his own studies of various schools of philosophy and the martial arts, and are sometimes paraphrases of previous expressions by others which he wrote down for his own instruction into his own words.\n\nIn 1975 the Tao of Jeet Kune Do was first made available only in paperback. The book was initially NOT available in Hardback; A Hardback edition was first made available in 1976. The forgoing statement is attributed to Black Belt Magazine and the source data is at http://blackbeltmag.com/daily/traditional-martial-arts-training/jeet-kune-do/the-saga-of-bruce-lee-tao-of-jeet-kune-do/[4] Subsequent editions have been available in paperback form only except for the following; In 2006, Black Belt Magazine offered this book in hardback form, on a 500-copy Limited Collector's Edition; the book is personally signed by Bruce Lee's widow Linda Lee Cadwell and his daughter Shannon Lee. Copies of the hardback edition from such sources as eBay typically fetch high prices and usually do not include the much sought after dust jacket.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35235841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35235841", "title": "The Good Vibrations Guide to Sex", "text": "The Good Vibrations Guide to Sex\n\nThe Good Vibrations Guide to Sex is a sex manual co-written by Cathy Winks and Anne Semans and published by Cleis Press. The authors run the Good Vibrations sex shop chain. The book is billed as \"the most complete sex manual ever written\". \n\nDebby Herbenick writing in \"The Courier-Journal\" recommended this book for knowing about communication during sex and tips for exploring different aspects of sexuality. The \"San Antonio Express-News\" describe this book as \"two of the best general sexuality references\", the other being \"Pucker Up\" by Tristan Taormino.\n\n"}
{"id": "12561854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12561854", "title": "Tyne &amp; Wear Archives &amp; Museums", "text": "Tyne &amp; Wear Archives &amp; Museums\n\nTyne & Wear Archives & Museums (TWAM) is a regional group of United Kingdom national museums and the county archives service located across the Tyne and Wear area of north-east England. They have been administered by a joint board of local authorities since the abolition of the Tyne and Wear Metropolitan County Council in 1986. \n\nThey receive financial support from the five local authorities they operate within and since 2012, Arts Council England. The service is one of those specified in the Designation Scheme administered by Arts Council England. In the past, the service received additional financial support from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. \n\nTyne & Wear Archives & Museums are responsible for managing the 10 museums and galleries below and the county archives. They also share use of the Regional Museums Store at Beamish Museum.\n\nTyne and Wear Archives are based within the Discovery Museum.\n\nPartnership between the museums and galleries both inside and outside of TWAM has been a significant matter. One example is The Late Shows which has run every May since 2007. Another large-scale project has been \"A History of the North East in 100 Objects\" that launched in June 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13315090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13315090", "title": "Uniform title", "text": "Uniform title\n\nA uniform title in library cataloging is a title assigned to a work which either has no title or has appeared under more than one title. It is part of authority control. The phrases \"conventional title\" and \"standard title\" are sometimes used; Resource Description and Access uses \"preferred title\"; and the 2009 Statement of International Cataloguing Principles deprecates it in favour of \"authorized access point\".\n\nThere are many instances in which a uniform title can be used. Anonymous works such as sacred texts and folk tales may lack an obvious title: for instance, the Bible, \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", \"Beowulf\" or the \"Chanson de Roland\". Works of art and music may contain no text that can be used for reference. A uniform title allows all of the works to fall under one title and will reference all of the items to which the uniform title applies.\n\nFor example, if a library has 10 copies of \"Crime and Punishment\", each in a different language, an online library catalogue can display all of the copies of the book together under the chosen uniform title. The library could also list any copies of \"Crime and Punishment\" in other media, such as film adaptations or abridged editions, under the same uniform title. This can help a library patron when searching the online catalog find all of the versions of \"Crime and Punishment\" at once instead of searching for each foreign title or film individually.\n\nUniform titles are particularly useful when cataloguing music, where pieces of music are often known by multiple valid titles and those titles are known in multiple languages, or when an individual work has been adapted as a contrafactum.\n\nThe Library of Congress provides an example of how books of the New Testament are referred to in the Anglo-American Cataloging Rules:\n\nExample:edition being cataloged: Othello / William Shakespeareestablished uniform title: Shakespeare, William ... Othellono uniform title assigned to the edition being catalogedExample:edition being cataloged: The tempest / William Shakespeareestablished uniform title: Shakespeare, William ... TempestThe complementary situation occurs with a single work that exists with more than one title, especially when translated into another language, excerpted or collected with other works. In this case, the name of the language or a phrase such as 'Selections' is added to distinguish works with the same uniform title.\n\nThe MARC 21 standard uses fields 240, 243, 630, 730 and 830 for uniform titles.\n\n"}
{"id": "27437313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27437313", "title": "Xena (software)", "text": "Xena (software)\n\nXena is open-source software for use in digital preservation. Xena is short for XML Electronic Normalising for Archives.\n\nXena is a Java application developed by the National Archives of Australia. It is available free of charge under the GNU General Public License.\n\nVersion 6.1.0 was released 31 July 2013. Source code and binaries for Linux, OS X and Windows are available from SourceForge.\n\nXena attempts to avoid digital obsolescence by converting files into an openly specified format, such as ODF or PNG. If the file format is not supported or the Binary Normalisation option is selected, Xena will perform ASCII Base64 encoding on binary files and wrap the output in XML metadata. The resulting .xena file is plain text, although the content of the data itself is not directly human-readable. The exact original file can be retrieved by stripping the metadata and reversing the Base64 encoding, using an internal viewer.\n\nPlatforms supported by Xena are Microsoft Windows, Linux and Mac OS X.\n\nXena uses a series of plugins to identify file formats and convert them to an appropriate openly specified format.\n\nXena has an application programming interface which allows any reasonably skilled Java developer to develop a plugin to cover a new file type.\n\nXena can process individual files or whole directories. When processing a whole directory, it can preserve the original directory structure of the converted records.\n\nXena can create plain text versions of file formats such as TIFF, Word and PDF, with the use of Tesseract (software).\n\nThe Xena interface or Xena Viewer can be used to view or export a Xena file (extension .xena) in its target file format. These files contain the normalised file as well as any extra information relevant to the normalisation process.\nThe Xena Viewer supports bulk export of Xena files to target file formats.\n\nXena can be used via its graphical user interface or the command line.\n\nFor Xena to be fully functional, it requires a local installation of the following external software:\n\nXena will recognize and process the file types listed below, plus a few others of minor importance. Unsupported file types will automatically undergo binary normalization.\n\nOffice file formats:\n\nGraphics:\n\nArchive Files:\n\nAudio files:\n\nDatabases:\n\nOther file types:\n\nAn April 22, 2010 review in Practical e-Records rated Xena at 82/100 points. At present Xena has no target preservation format for video files.\n\n"}
