{"id": "56741367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56741367", "title": "100th Anniversary of the Estonian Republic", "text": "100th Anniversary of the Estonian Republic\n\nThe 100th Anniversary of the Estonian Republic (or more commonly used Estonia 100) is an official government program for the celebration of the Republic of Estonia's 100th anniversary. The official birthday of the Republic of Estonian Republic is on February 24, 2018, the centennial will be marked from April 2017 to February 2020.\n\nOn 12 February 1919, The Estonian Provisional Government decided to consider 24 February to be the date of the independence of Estonia from Russia which occurred when World War I was nearing its end. However, Estonia's independence came to a \"de facto\" end during World War II when the country was illegally occupied and annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940, then Nazi Germany in 1941 and returned to Soviet rule in 1944 when it became the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic. As a result, an government in exile was established.\n\nAs the political upheavals taking place throughout the Soviet Union in the 1980s, during the events of \"Baltic Way\", Estonia declared sovereignty on its territory in 1988, which restored its \"de facto\" independence on 8 May 1990 and declared Soviet rule illegal. Following the aborted coup in Moscow, the country's full \"de facto\" independence was restored after the Soviet troops failed to seize the Tallinn TV Tower on 20 August 1991. The Soviet State Council recognized the Estonian independence on 6 September 1991. Since 2004, Estonia has been a member of NATO and the European Union.\n\nThe birthday celebrations of the Republic of Estonia will take place over the next 3 years. The celebrations will kick off in April 2017 to mark a century since Estonia's administrative borders took their current form, will peak while events on various important dates take place throughout 2018 and 2019, and come to a grand close on the 2nd February 2020 when the 100th anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty will be honoured.\n\nA military parade on Freedom Square in Tallinn was held on the occasion of the 100th anniversary. 1,100 troops and more than 100 pieces of military equipment took part in the parade. The parade was led by Gen. Riho Terras, President Kersti Kaljulaid was present to greet the different units.\n\nAll service branches of the Estonian Defence Forces took part in the parade as well as soldiers from countries from NATO and other military partners of Estonia. The foreign countries that were represented were Finland, France, Georgia, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Sweden, Ukraine, Britain, Denmark, and the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43098591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43098591", "title": "101 Vagina", "text": "101 Vagina\n\n101 Vagina is a black-and-white coffee table photo-book by Philip Werner, with a foreword by Toni Childs. It was self-published in March 2013 in Melbourne, Australia. The book contains 101 close-up nude photos shot in a non-provocative way, along with an accompanying story or message written by each woman about her vagina.\n\nThe book's photos and stories were exhibited five times in Australia in 2013, with a US and Canadian tour in 2014 taking in six locations.\n\n\"101 Vagina\" was funded by crowd sourcing and took some two years to create. Werner was initially inspired by \"The Vagina Monologues\" and subjects were found via social media after Werner publicised his objective to create a book that had both an educational and celebratory goal. Models, ranging in age from 18 to 65, remain anonymous. Singer-songwriter Toni Childs, who wrote the foreword, made contact with Werner after he initiated a peace march in honour of murdered Australian Broadcasting Corporation employee Jill Meagher in his Brunswick, Victoria neighbourhood.\n\nSpeaking to \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" about the book, Werner commented that: \"I hope it finds its way to a few young women and girls...So they see that [these pictures are] normal rather than pictures in magazines.\"\nStories accompanying the photos discuss various themes, including ageing, pregnancy, Brazilian waxing, first sexual encounter and poor body image.\n\nOn publication \"101 Vagina\" received broad media coverage, including write-ups in \"The Age,\" \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" and \"La Presse\" in Montreal. It was also discussed on ABC Radio National, and 2SER.\n\n\"101 Vagina\" was presented as an exhibition on several occasions in Australia in 2013. This included being part of The Sydney Fringe. and Melbourne Fringe Festival. In 2014, it was officially launched in the US and Canada with a series of exhibitions. The tour included Los Angeles and Laguna Beach.\n\nIn Sydney the exhibition was visited by police responding to a complaint that the images were visible from the street. Images were required to be censored as part of a group exhibition at The Sydney Fringe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30972009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30972009", "title": "2011–12 Saudi Arabian protests", "text": "2011–12 Saudi Arabian protests\n\nThe protests in Saudi Arabia were part of the Arab Spring that started with the 2011 Tunisian revolution. Protests started with a self-immolation in Samtah and Jeddah street protests in late January 2011. Protests against anti-Shia discrimination followed in February and early March in Qatif, Hofuf, al-Awamiyah, and Riyadh. A Facebook organiser of a planned 11 March \"Day of Rage\", Faisal Ahmed Abdul-Ahad, was allegedly killed by Saudi security forces on 2 March, with several hundred people protesting in Qatif, Hofuf and al-Amawiyah on the day itself. Khaled al-Johani demonstrated alone in Riyadh, was interviewed by BBC Arabic Television, was detained in `Ulaysha Prison, and became known online as \"the only brave man in Saudi Arabia\". Many protests over human rights took place in April 2011 in front of government ministry buildings in Riyadh, Ta'if and Tabuk and in January 2012 in Riyadh. In 2011, Nimr al-Nimr encouraged his supporters in nonviolent resistance.\n\nAnti-government protests demanding release of prisoners held without charge or trial continued in April and May 2011 in Qatif, al-Awamiyah and Hofuf in the Eastern Province, and extended to calls for the Peninsula Shield Force to be withdrawn from Bahrain and for the Eastern Province to have a constitution and a legislature. Four protestors were shot dead by Saudi authorities in late November in Qatif region protests and funerals, two on 12/13 and 26 January 2012, and two on 9 and 10 February 2012. In the early 2012 demonstrations, protestors chanted slogans against the House of Saud and Minister of Interior, Nayef, calling Nayef a \"terrorist\", \"criminal\" and \"butcher\" and throwing an effigy of Nayef at tanks. Police described two of the fatal shootings as responses to unidentified gunmen who had shot first. Eastern Province protests intensified after Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr was wounded in the leg and arrested by police on 8 July. Four men were killed in a protest immediately following the arrest, and on 13 July, with several funerals and protests following, including calls for the downfall of the House of Saud. While detained, al-Nimr was tortured and started a hunger strike, he was later executed in the 2016 mass execution. Protest organisers insisted on the use of nonviolent resistance and called for all Shia and Sunni detainees to be freed. A protestor and a soldier were fatally shot in Qatif during a 3–4 August protest, leading to more protests.\n\nProtests and sit-ins calling for political prisoners to be released spread beyond the Eastern Province to protests at the Ministry of Interior in Riyadh on 20 March and in Riyadh and Buraidah in December 2011, and in July and August 2012 in front of the Ministry in Riyadh, in Mecca in Ta'if, in Buraidah, and near al-Ha'ir Prison.\n\nWomen organised a Facebook women's suffrage campaign called \"Baladi\", stating that Saudi Arabian law gives women electoral rights. In April 2011, women in Jeddah, Riyadh and Dammam tried to register as electors for the 29 September municipal elections despite officials stating that women could not participate. In May and June, Manal al-Sharif and other women organised a women's right-to-drive campaign, with the main action to take place on 17 June. In late September, Shaima Jastania was sentenced to 10 lashes for driving in Jeddah, shortly after King Abdullah announced women's participation in the 2015 municipal elections and eligibility as Consultative Assembly members; King Abdullah overturned the sentence. Al-Sharif and Samar Badawi filed lawsuits against Saudi authorities in the Grievances Board, a non-Sharia court, because of the rejection of their driving licence applications. Women university students protested in King Khalid University (KKU) in Abha in March 2012 and were attacked by security forces, leading to one death. Other university protests followed in Taibah University in Medina and Tabuk University in March and April. KKU students called for the university president to be dismissed. He was replaced on 1 July 2012.\n\nProtests started with a 65-year-old man's self-immolation in Samtah, Jizan on 21 January and protests of a few hundred people in late January in Jeddah, triggered by flooding, and several times throughout February and early March in the cities of Qatif, al-Awamiyah, Riyadh, and Hofuf. A \"Day of Rage\" was planned for 11 March. One of the main organisers, Faisal Ahmed Abdul-Ahad (or \"Abdul-Ahadwas\"), was alleged to have been killed by Saudi security forces on 2 March, by which time one of the \"Facebook\" groups discussing the plans had over 26,000 members. On 11 March, several hundred people protested in Qatif, Hofuf and al-Amawiyah. Khaled al-Johani demonstrated in Riyadh despite a massive police presence, was interviewed by BBC Arabic Television, and has since then been detained in ‘Ulaysha Prison. Al-Johani became known online as \"the only brave man in Saudi Arabia\".\n\nThe Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA) and the Saudi organisation Human Rights First Society called for ACPRA co-founder Mohammed Saleh Albejadi to be released following his arbitrary arrest in Buraidah on 21 March by Mabahith, the internal security agency. In April, several small protests over labour rights took place in front of government ministry buildings in Riyadh, Ta'if and Tabuk. Protests, made up mainly of Shia protestors, continued in late March and April in Qatif and smaller cities in the Eastern Province such as al-Awamiyah, and Hofuf. The protestors called for the release of prisoners, for the Peninsula Shield Force to be withdrawn from Bahrain, for equal representation in key offices and for reforms in political positions, as they feel marginalised.\n\nIn response to the 22–23 March announcement of men-only municipal elections in late September 2011 to elect half the members of local councils, women organised a Facebook women's suffrage campaign called \"Baladi\", stating that Saudi Arabian law gives women electoral rights. In April, women in Jeddah, Riyadh and Dammam tried to register as electors for the 22 September municipal elections despite officials stating that women could not participate.\n\nIn May and June, motivated by the Arab Spring, Manal al-Sharif and other women organised a women's right-to-drive campaign, with the main action to take place on 17 June. Al-Sharif drove a car in May and was detained on 22 May and from 23‒30 May. Other women also drove cars, including actress Wajnat Rahbini, who was arrested after driving in Jeddah on 4 June and released a day later. From 17 June to late June, about seventy cases of women driving were documented. In late September, Shaima Jastania was sentenced to 10 lashes for driving in Jeddah, shortly after King Abdullah announced women's participation in the 2015 municipal elections and eligibility as Consultative Assembly members. King Abdullah cancelled the sentence.\n\nFrom 17 June to late June, more than seventy cases of women driving were documented. Protests in the Qatif region continued in May and in October protests, police shot live ammunition at protestors. The protestors called for Eastern Province to have its own constitution and legislative assembly, and for their association Society for Development and Change to be legally registered. In late November, Nasser al-Mheishi, Ali al-Felfel, Munib al-Sayyed al-'Adnan and Ali Abdullah al-Qarairis were shot dead by security forces in the Qatif region in successive protests and funerals. The protests continued in December.\n\nHundreds of people protested in Riyadh and Buraidah in December, calling for the release or trial of prisoners.\n\nA protest for labour rights took place in Riyadh on 14 January and a sit-in calling for the Syrian Ambassador to be expelled occurred on 5 February in Jeddah.\n\nProtests in the Qatif region continued from January to May, with security forces using live fire against protestors, killing four, and arresting medical personnel. Security forces shot dead Issam Mohamed Abu Abdallah in al-Awamiyah on 12 or 13 January, Montazar Sa'eed al-Abdel in al-Awamiyah on 26 January, and Munir al-Midani and Zuhair al-Said on 9 and 10 February. In the 70,000 strong funeral for Abdallah on 16 January in al-Awamiyah and the daily Qatif region protests that followed, protestors chanted slogans against the House of Saud and Minister of Interior, Nayef, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. In mid-February, two medical personnel were arrested for having clandestinely treated injured protestors. In a 10 February protest and a 13 February funeral, an effigy of Nayef was thrown at tanks and participants described Nayef as a \"terrorist\", \"criminal\" and \"butcher\". Police described two of the fatal shootings as responses to unidentified gunmen who had shot first. Dawoud al-Marhoon and Abdullah Hasan al-Zaher were arrested on 22 May and 3 March 2012, when they were aged 17 and 16 respectively, for participated in the 2011–12 Saudi Arabian protests. Originally, in March 2012, Al Marhoon was questioned by Saudi police and asked to be an informant and report details about his fellow protesters. After he refused, Saudi security forces arrested him from the Dammam Central Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for an eye injury sustained in a traffic accident. Saudi forces surrounded the hospital and arrested him as he prepared for surgery. He was arrested in May 22, 2012, and have been tortured and forced to \"confess\". Then sentenced to death by the Specialized Criminal Court in September 2015, and , awaited ratification of his sentence by King Salman of Saudi Arabia, to be carried out by beheading and crucifixion (in that order).\n\nManal al-Sharif and Samar Badawi, active in the women to drive movement, announced that they had filed lawsuits against Saudi authorities in the Grievances Board, a non-Sharia court, because of the rejection of their driving licence applications. As of the end of June 2012, 100 Saudi women had started driving regularly since the June 2011 campaign launch. Women university students protested in King Khalid University in Abha in March and were attacked by security forces, leading to one death. Other university protests followed in Taibah University in Medina and Tabuk University in March and April.\n\nIn July 2012, Amnesty International protested in the United Nations Human Rights Council against legal persecution of Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA) leaders. Ten female activists were detained in a Buraidah 14 July protest calling for political prisoners to be freed. Similar protests calling for prisoners to be freed and protesting against the Saudi government occurred in Buraidah on 23 July and in front of the Ministry of Interior in Riyadh on 25 July, in Riyadh and Mecca on 28 July, in Ta'if. in Buraidah, near al-Ha'ir Prison and in Dammam in August.\n\nIn July and August 2012, protests in the Qatif region intensified after Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr was wounded in the leg and arrested by police on 8 July. Three men were killed in a protest on the evening of the arrest. Funerals and protests took place on 10 July, 11 July and 13 July, including chants calling for the downfall of the House of Saud. Another protestor was shot dead in 13 July al-Awamiyah protest. While detained, al-Nimr was tortured, had bruises on his face and broken teeth, and started a hunger strike. Protest organisers in al-Awamiyah stated their support for al-Nimr and insisted on the use of nonviolent resistance. Protester Mohamed al-Shakhouri was shot in the back and neck and arrested in a 26–27 July protest calling for al-Nimr's release. Further protests called for all Shia and Sunni detainees to be freed, including al-Shakhouri. A protestor and a soldier were fatally shot in Qatif during a 3–4 August evening human rights protest, leading to several more protests.\n\nIn early 2014, conflict between protestors and the security forces continued, with Qatif being \"a militarised zone, surrounded by checkpoints and armoured vehicles\". A Saudi journalist who had been documenting the protests for two years for the BBC left Saudi Arabia as she judged the situation \"too risky for [her] to continue investigating.\" Nimr al-Nimr was sentenced to death by the Specialized Criminal Court on 15 October 2014 for \"seeking 'foreign meddling' in [Saudi Arabia], 'disobeying' its rulers and taking up arms against the security forces\". His brother, Mohammad al-Nimr, was arrested on the same day for tweeting information about the death sentence. Al-Nimr was executed on or shortly before 2 January 2016, along with 46 others in a mass execution. His execution was condemned by Iran and Shiites throughout the Middle East, as well as by Western figures and Sunnis opposed to sectarianism. The Saudi government said the body would not be handed over to the family. In March 2017, after a long campaign of harassment, the Saudi security forces killed two members of Nimr family during a raid on a farm in eastern Saudi Arabia. Miqdad and Mohammad Al-Nimr were killed at a farm in Awamiyah, the Nimr family hometown. al-Nimr was very critical of the Saudi Arabian government, and called for free elections in Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn November 2014, unknown assailants in al-Ahsa governorate in the Eastern Province attacked a procession during Ashoura and killed eight Shias, including children, and left over 30 people wounded. The following week deputy governor of the province, Emir Jalwi bin Abdulaziz, was sacked by a royal decree and transferred to the Najran region. However, no official reason was given.\n\nOn 21 January 2011, an unidentified 65-year-old man died after setting himself on fire in the town of Samtah, Jizan. This was apparently the kingdom's first known case of self-immolation.\n\nOn 21 November 2011, a 9-year-old girl was shot dead in a demonstration in Qatif along with Ali al-Felfel, during the funeral for Nasser al-Mheishi.\n\nOn 8 July 2012, an unidentified demonstrator was killed by the security forces along with Akbar Hassan al-Shakhouri and Mohamed Redha al-Felfel, during a protest against the arrest of Nimr al-Nimr by the Saudi authorities.\n\nOn 10 September 2012, a Bangladeshi man was shot dead in the Al-Awamiyah district of eastern Saudi Arabia. Saudi police said that the Bangladeshi man was driving when his car was hit by bullets fired at two security patrol cars. However, an activist in Al-Awamiyah gave a different account of the incident, saying the man had been killed by gunfire when security forces stormed a house while trying to arrest one of the 23 wanted activist for organising protest in Qatif.\n\nOn 10 February 2011, a Reuters report claimed that 10 intellectuals, human rights activists and lawyers came together to create the Umma Islamic Party – considered to be the first political party in Saudi Arabia since the 1990s – to demand the end of absolute monarchy in the country. On 18 February however, all ten members of the party were arrested and ordered to withdraw demands for political reform in exchange for their release.\n\nOn 23 February, Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah, after returning to the country following three months spent abroad for health treatment, announced a series of benefits for citizens amounting to $10.7 billion. These include funding to offset high inflation and to aid young unemployed people and Saudi citizens studying abroad, as well as writing off some loans. State employees' incomes were increased by 15 percent and new housing loans subsidies were introduced. No political reforms were announced as part of the package, though the 86-year-old monarch did pardon some prisoners indicted in financial crimes.\n\nOn 6 March, the Saudi Arabian Council of Senior Scholars, headed by Grand Mufti Abd al-'Aziz al-Ashaikh, issued a fatwā (religious opinion) opposing petitions and demonstrations, declaring, \"Therefore the council hereby reaffirms that only the reform and [counsel] that has its legitimacy is that which may bring welfare and avert the evil, whereas it is illegal to issue statements and take signatures for the purposes of intimidation and inciting the strife. ... reform should not be by demonstrations and other means and methods that give rise to unrest and divide the community. ... The Council affirms prohibition of the demonstrations in this country and [that] the legal method which realizes the welfare without causing destruction rests on the mutual advice.\" The fatwa included a \"severe threat against internal dissent\", stating, \"[The Prophet] again said: 'He who wanted separate affairs of this nation who are unified, you should kill him with sword whoever he is' (narrated by Muslim).\" In late March, Abd al-'Aziz al-Ashaikh called for a million copies of the fatwa to be printed and distributed.\n\nOn 22–23 March 2011, officials of the Ministry of Municipal and Rural affairs announced that men-only municipal elections to elect half the members of local councils would be held in September 2011. \"Associated Press\" described the election announcement as having \"coincided with rumblings of dissent in Saudi Arabia stemming from the wave of political unrest in the Arab world.\"\n\nAbout 30 to 50 people were arrested following 29 January Jeddah demonstration. On 18 February, the ten founding members of the Umma Islamic Party were arrested and ordered to withdraw demands for political reform in exchange for their release.\n\nAccording to a Deutsche Presse-Agentur report on 2 March, Saudi activists have alleged that one of the main administrators of one of the Facebook groups calling for a \"Day of Rage\" on 11 March, Faisal Ahmed Abdul-Ahad (or \"Abdul-Ahadwas\"), was killed by Saudi security forces, who removed his body to \"hide evidence of the crime\".\n\nOn 5 March, thousands of security forces were sent to the north-east, causing delays on the road to Dammam. On the same day, following about two weeks of small protests in the eastern part of Saudi Arabia, the Ministry of the Interior warned that the \"ban [on] all sorts of demonstrations, marches, sit-ins\" imposed by Saudi law would be enforced.\n\nOn 9 March, Foreign Minister Saud Al Faisal stated that the government would not tolerate any street protests against it, while also saying that the \"best way to achieve demands is through national dialogue\".\n\nOn 21 March, Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA) co-founder Mohammed Saleh Albejadi (also \"Al-Bjady\") was arrested in Buraidah by Mabahith, the internal security agency. ACPRA stated that the arrest was arbitrary, in violation of the Basic Law of Saudi Arabia and the \"Law of Criminal Procedures\".\n\nOn 27 March 2011, Human Rights Watch estimated that the \"scale of arrests [rose] dramatically during the preceding two weeks\", up to about 160 protestors and critics being held without charge.\n\nIn early January 2012, Saudi authorities published the names of a list of 23 people who were allegedly involved in the October 2011 Awamiyah/Qatif protests, calling for their arrests. Ministry of Interior spokesman Mansour al-Turki alleged that the protestors \"were working according to a foreign agenda\" and were \"sponsored financially or supplied with weapons and were working as part of an organization\". Shah Ali al-Shokan (or \"Shaukan\") from Tarout Island, one of the 23, was arrested by Mabahith on 2 January 2012. Hussain Ali Abdullah al-Baraki, Mosa Ja'far Mohammad al-Mabyouq, and two others among the 23 were also arrested on 2 January. The Ministry of Interior claimed that al-Shokan, al-Baraki and al-Mabyouq had turned themselves in voluntarily. On 10 January, Aqeel al-Yaseen was wounded in al-Awamiyah by security forces, arrested and transferred to a Mabahith facility in Dammam, and forbidden family visits.\n\nIn mid-March 2011, Reuters chief correspondent in Saudi Arabia, Ulf Laessing, who had reported from Riyadh since 2009, had his journalistic accreditation withdrawn because of his reporting on the early 2011 Saudi Arabian protests, effectively forcing him to leave Saudi Arabia.\n\nOne of the subsequent responses of the Saudi government was the arrest, conviction and subsequent execution of Nimr al-Nimr on 2 January 2016.\n\n\n\nJournalist Robert Fisk said that the protests were known as the \"Hunayn Revolution,\" after the Battle of Hunayn fought between Muhammad and the Hawazin.\n\nExiled Saudi physicist and political dissident Mohammad al-Massari described police attacks on women in 3 March 2011 Qatif demonstration as a strategic error, saying, \"They made a stupid mistake by attacking women and so on because they think Shia women do not have ... the honor protection like the rest of the women in the country. But attacking women in Saudi Arabia, in an Islamic country is very severe, very negative and catastrophic ... and this will have dire repercussions.\"\n\nOn 21 February 2011, oil prices rose in response to the 2011 Libyan civil war and speculation regarding 11 March Saudi Arabian Day of Rage. The Saudi Tadawul stock market index fell to a seven-month low on stability concerns. During the week of 27 February, global stock prices fell as oil prices increased and silver reached a 30-year high price on stability concerns in the region. Regional stock market indices also fell on concern for Saudi stability.\n\nIn August 2017, ten Nobel Peace Prize laureates, including Desmond Tutu and Lech Wałęsa, urged Saudi Arabia to stop the executions of 14 young people for participating in the 2011–12 Saudi Arabian protests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36688124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36688124", "title": "Alexisonfire Farewell Tour", "text": "Alexisonfire Farewell Tour\n\nThe Alexisonfire Farewell Tour was a concert tour by Canadian post-hardcore band Alexisonfire, taking place in December 2012. After their tour in 2010, band member Dallas Green expressed his desire to leave the band. The band officially announced their break-up in August 2011 and also announced plans of doing one last farewell tour before officially disbanding. The farewell tour was officially announced on August 9, 2012, when the band revealed the tour dates to take place in December 2012.\n\nThe band commented that the tour was short due to December being the only available time window for all five members when they were free from any other commitments, especially Dallas Green who was touring with City and Colour and Wade MacNeil who was touring with Gallows.\n\nOn August 17, 2012, after the tickets for the London date were sold out in just 5 minutes, the band announced that they added another London date at the same venue, a day before, on December 2, 2012.\n\nThe band reunited in 2015.\n\nAlexisonfire official website\nAlexisonfire CanadianBands.com entry\nAlexisonfire at Exclaim!\n"}
{"id": "23484722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23484722", "title": "Azacosterol", "text": "Azacosterol\n\nAzacosterol (INN), or azacosterol hydrochloride (USAN) (brand name Ornitrol), also known as 20,25-diazacholesterol, is a cholesterol-lowering drug (hypocholesteremic) which was marketed previously but has since been discontinued. It is also an avian chemosterilant used to control the pest pigeon population via inducing sterility. The drug is a sterol and derivative of cholesterol in which two carbon atoms have been replaced with nitrogen atoms.\n\nAzacosterol acts as an inhibitor of 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase (24-DHCR), preventing the formation of cholesterol from desmosterol. Although it primarily acts to inhibit 24-DHCR, the drug also inhibits other steps in cholesterol biosynthesis. The anti-fertility effects of the drug in birds are mediated by inhibition of steroid hormone production, steroid hormones being synthesized from cholesterol. Due to prevention of the metabolism of desmosterol, the drug causes it to accumulate, in turn producing side effects such as hyperkeratosis, particularly of the palms and soles.\n\n"}
{"id": "745949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745949", "title": "Battle of Himera (480 BC)", "text": "Battle of Himera (480 BC)\n\nThe Battle of Himera (480 BC), supposedly fought on the same day as the more famous Battle of Salamis, or at the same time as the Battle of Thermopylae, saw the Greek forces of Gelon, King of Syracuse, and Theron, tyrant of Agrigentum, defeat the Carthaginian force of Hamilcar the Magonid, ending a Carthaginian bid to restore the deposed tyrant of Himera. The alleged coincidence of this battle with the naval battle of Salamis and the resultant derailing of a Punic-Persian conspiracy aimed at destroying the Greek civilization is rejected by modern scholars. Scholars also agree that the battle led to the crippling of Carthage's power in Sicily for many decades. It was one of the most important battles of the Sicilian Wars.\n\nThe Phoenicians had planted trading posts all over the coast of Sicily after 900 BC, but had never penetrated far inland. They had traded with the Elymian, Sicani and Siculi communities and ultimately withdrew without resistance to Motya, Panormus and Solus when the Greek colonists arrived after 750 BC. These cities remained independent until becoming part of the Carthaginian hegemony after 540 BC, probably when Malchus of Carthage \"conquered all Sicily\" and sent the captured booty to Tyre .\n\nCarthage created her hegemony in part to resist Greek encroachments in the Phoenician sphere of influence. Phoenicians initially (750–650 BC) did not resist the Greeks, but after the Greeks had reached Iberia sometime after 650 BC, Carthage emerged as the leader of Phoenician resistance. During the 6th century BC, mostly under the leadership of the Magonid dynasty, Carthage established a commercially dominant position in the Western Mediterranean. The Phoenicians in Sicily and the Elymians had teamed up to defeat the Greeks of Selinus and Rhodes near Lilybaeum in 580 BC, the first recorded clash between Phoenicians and Greeks incident in Sicily. The next known Greek incursion in Sicily took place 70 years later.\n\nThe Greeks living in Sicily behaved pretty much like the mainland Greeks, expanding their political and commercial domain at the expense of their neighbors while keeping the Ionian/Dorian feud alive – the Doric colonies were comparably more aggressive in expanding their territory. Trade also flourished between the natives, the Greeks and the Phoenicians and the Sicilian Greeks colonies became prosperous. This prosperity enabled some of the Greek cities to start to expand their territories again, ultimately leading to the events known as the \"First Sicilian War\".\n\nCarthage and Elymians joined hands in 510 BC to oppose the expedition of Prince Dorieus, who had lost the Spartan throne and was seeking to found a colony, showed up to colonize Eryx – after being expelled from Libya by Carthage in 511 BC. Dorieus was defeated and killed; the Greek survivors then founded Heraclea Minoa. Sicilian Greeks (probably the cities of Akragas, Gela and Selinus) fought an undated war of revenge against Carthage, which led to the destruction of Minoa and a treaty which brought economic benefits for the Greeks. An appeal for aid to avenge the death of Dorieus was ignored by mainland Greece, even by Leonidas of Sparta, brother of Dorieus and who later would win immortal fame at Thermopylae in 480 BC. This possibly demonstrated the futility of opposing Carthage by single Greek cities or the unreliability of aid from mainland Greece, a situation that would change with the rise of the Greek tyrants in Sicily.\n\nWhile Carthage remained engaged in Sardinia after 510 BC, most of the Greek colonies in Sicily fell under the rule of tyrants. The tyrants of Gela, Akragas and Rhegion successfully expanded their dominion at the expense of native Sicilians and other Greek cities during 505–480 BC, with the Dorian city of Gela being the most successful.\n\nCleander (505–498 BC) and his brother Hippocrates (498–491) of Gela successfully took over both Ionian and Dorian Greek territory, and by 490 BC, Zankle, Leontini, Catana, Naxos, besides neighboring Sicel lands and Camarina had fallen to Gela. Gelo, successor of Hippocrates, captured Syracuse and made the city his capital. By using ethnic cleansing, deportation and enslavement, Gelo transformed the former Ionian cities into Dorian ones and made Syracuse the dominant power in Sicily. Meanwhile, Akragas, another Doric city, had taken over neighboring Sikan and Sicel lands under the tyrant Theron (488–472 BC). To forestall any conflicts between Akragas and Syracuse, Gelo and Theron married into each other's families, thus creating a united front against the Sicels and Ionian Greeks of Sicily.\n\nTo counter this Doric threat, Anaxilas of Rhegion from Italy, who had captured Zankle from Gela in 490 BC, allied himself with Terillus of Himera, and married the daughter of Terillus. Himera and Rhegion next became allies of Carthage, the tyrants even built up personal relationships with the Magonid dynasty of Carthage. Selinus, a Doric city whose territory bordered Theron's domain, also became a Carthaginian ally – perhaps the fear of Theron and the destruction of Megara Hyblaea (mother city of, Selinus), by Gelo, had played a part in this decision. Thus, 3 power blocks were delicately balanced in Sicily by 483 BC – Ionians dominating the north, Carthage the west, Dorians the east and south. The Sicels and Sikans in the interior remained passive, and if not directly under Greek rule, did not hinder the movements of their forces. The Elmyians joined the Carthaginian alliance.\n\nThe city of Himera had once requested Phalaris, tyrant of Akragas (570–554 BC), to rule Himera. Theron emulated Phalaris when he deposed Terillus and added Himera to his domain in 483 BC. Terillus had come to power in Himera after expelling the ruling oligarchs (who had taken refuge in Akragas), and he probably lacked popular support, which may have been exploited by Theron. Terillus requested Hamilcar, Suffet of Carthage, and Xenia (guest friend) of Terillus, for aid. Anaxilas also lobbied on his behalf, and sent his own children as hostages to Carthage as a token of loyalty. After a 3-year delay, Hamilcar led a Carthaginian expedition to Sicily in 480 BC, which coincided with the expedition of Xerxes against mainland Greece.\n\nThe mainland Greeks had sent an embassy to Gelon requesting aid against Xerxes. Gelon at first complained that the Greeks spurned his request of aid against the Carthaginians in the past, but he offered to send 24,000 foot, 4000 horse and 200 warships in addition to fully provisioning the combined Greek force in Greece if he was made the supreme commander. The Spartans objected to this, and Gelon then asked to be the commander of either the land or naval forces in exchange for his help. The Athenian envoy then objected, and the Greeks were sent packing empty handed. Gelon also hedged his bets, he sent 3 ships under Cadmus of Kos to Delphi, with instructions to offer his submission to Xerxes in case of a Persian victory.\n\nHamilcar is said to have assembled an army numbering 300,000 soldiers from Iberia, Sardinia, Corsica, Italy, Gaul and Africa under the command of a body of Carthaginian officers, along with war chariots, 200 warships and 3,000 transports for the venture. According to the modern historians, the numbers are clearly inflated; the Punic army may not have been significantly larger than that of the Greek coalition. The army had no siege engines and the Etruscans and the Elymians, allies in past struggles against Greeks, were not part of it.\n\nThe core units of the army came from Africa. The heavy African infantry fought in close formation, armed with long spears and round shields, wearing helmets and linen cuirasses. The light Libyan infantry carried javelins and a small shield, same as Iberian light infantry. The Iberian infantry wore purple bordered white tunics and leather headgear. The heavy infantry fought in a dense phalanx, armed with heavy throwing spears, long body shields and short thrusting swords. Sardinian and Gallic infantry fought in their native gear, but often were equipped by Carthage.\n\nThe Libyans, Carthaginian citizens and the Libyo-Phoenicians provided disciplined, well trained cavalry equipped with thrusting spears and round shields. Iberians and Gauls also provided cavalry, which relied on the all out charge. Libyans also provided bulk of the heavy, four horse war chariots for Carthage.\n\nGelo and Theron had a well trained, battle tested army at their disposal. In addition to citizens, hired mercenaries from Greeks and Sicels augmented their forces. Gelon took out a loan from citizens to fund his war efforts, which indicates the seriousness of the situation. The Syracusan army at Himera is said to have numbered 50,000 foot and 5,000 horse – perhaps another exaggeration. The size of the army of Theron is not known. The main hoplite force came from the citizens of the Sicilian Greek cities. They were augmented by mercenary hoplites hired from Sicily and Italy, and even mainland Greece. Some of the citizens also served as peltasts while the wealthier citizens formed the cavalry units. Sicels and Sikan soldiers also served in the force. Mercenaries provided archers, slingers and cavalry.\n\nHamilcar chose not to sail to Selinus and then attack Akragas, although it was the coast closest to Carthage. The Carthaginian fleet, escorted by 60 triremes, sailed to Panormus instead. Hamilcar chose this course probably because restoring Terrilus was his primary objective. The conquest of Sicily, if that indeed was a consideration, took second place to his duty as a guest friend of Terrilus. The fleet was battered by storms at sea, losing the ships carrying the chariots and horses – which would be a significant factor in the coming battle. The Greek fleet, able to muster 200 ships, did not contest the crossing, and in fact played no part in the coming battle.\n\nHamilcar spent three days reorganizing his forces at Panormus, and repairing his battered fleet. The Carthaginians marched along the coast to Himera, with the fleet sailing alongside, and encamped near the city. Theron was already present in Himera with his army, but the Greeks did not interfere with Carthaginian operations. The Greek allies of Hamilcar (Greeks of Selinus and Anaxilas of Rhegion) were absent – and never joined the battle.\n\nThe city of Himera sits on top of a hill (300–400 feet high) on the western bank of the River Himera. The hill is steep in the northern, western and eastern sides but gradually slopes to the south. There are hills to the west and south of the city. The Carthaginians erected two camps near Himera. The sea camp was set to the north of Himera by the sea, surrounded by a palisade and a ditch. The army was billeted in a separate camp to the south on a low hill west of Himera. The land and sea camps were joined by siege works.\n\nIt is not known if Hamilcar wished to build siege weapons at Himera or settle the issue through battle. After the camps were erected, the Punic ships dropped off provisions at the sea camp and were sent to Sardinia and Africa for more supplies. 20 triremes patrolled the sea, the rest of the ships were beached in the sea camp. Himera was not fully invested – the east and south sides were open.\n\nHamilcar led a picked body of men on reconnaissance mission, and defeated the Greeks in a pitched battle outside Himera. The Greeks blocked the west gates of Himera and their morale also fell, while the Carthaginian foragers ranged the territory of Himera. Theron sent messages to Gelo, who arrived with his army and encamped across the river. Gelon's cavalry managed to capture many of the foragers, as Hamilcar had no cavalry present to counter his moves. The morale in Himera improved, and the bricked up gates were cleared on Gelo's orders.\n\nHerodotus and Diodorus Siculus give different versions of the battle, which are hard to reconcile. Diodorus provides a more detailed account.\n\nThe Greek and Punic armies fought from dawn to dusk, while Hamilcar watched the battle from his camp and offered sacrifices to Baal in a huge fire. No information on numbers, battle formation or battle site is given. When the Carthaginian army was routed towards dusk, Hamilcar jumped into the sacrificial fire. His body was never found and the Greeks erected a monument to his memory where he supposedly died. Herodotus noted that Sicilian tradition held that this battle and the battle of Salamis were fought on the same day.\n\nThe actions of the Greek cavalry in countering Carthaginian foragers prompted Hamilcar to send a letter to Selinus requesting them to send their cavalry to Himera on a given date that Hamilcar was to offer a sacrifice to Poseidon – a Greek deity whose worship probably required the presence of Greeks. The letter was intercepted by Gelo's men. Gelo planned to use his own cavalry to impersonate the Selinute reinforcement and infiltrate the Carthaginian camp, while his army attacked the land camp.\n\nGelo's horsemen left their camp on the night before the appointed day, and at daybreak these horsemen arrived at the Carthaginian sea camp and were admitted into the camp. Greeks spotted them inside the Carthaginian camp from Himera and signaled Gelo. It is not known if the Syracusan army was inside Gelo's camp or had assembled somewhere outside at that time. The Greeks marched around the south end of Himera and moved towards the Carthaginian land camp. Theron and his army stayed put in Himera. The Carthaginian army left their camp and formed up on the hill, forcing the Greeks to fight an uphill battle. The struggle was fierce and long and neither side gained any advantages.\n\nSometime after the battle was joined, the disguised Greek horsemen killed Hamilcar while he was preparing the sacrifice, and then set fire to the beached ships, causing great confusion at the sea camp. It is not known what further role the Greek cavalry played in the battle. The Carthaginians rushed to launch whatever ships they could save and some of the ships, overcrowded with soldiers, left the site altogether. When the news of Hamilcar's death and the burning of ships reach the fighting armies, the Greeks pressed harder and routed the Carthaginians, who fled to their camp.\n\nIn an alternative version, Gelo ordered Pediarchos, his captain of archers, to \"dress as the tyrant\" to impersonate him and offer sacrifices in front of the camp. Pediarchos was surrounded by archers who had concealed bows in their dress while he impersonated Gelo. Hamilcar was obliged to come out to offer sacrifices also, and the bowmen shot him down.\n\nGelo's army stormed the Carthaginian camp and the Greeks scattered to loot the tents. The Iberians of the Carthaginian army reformed, and they attacked the now disordered Greeks, inflicting severe casualties. The Greeks fought back, but they were hard pressed and the Iberians got the upper hand in the struggle. At this critical juncture Theron decided to join the battle. He directed his attack on the flank and rear of the Iberian position inside the camp and also set fire to tents near them. The Iberians finally gave way, and retreated to the ships still afloat. Other Carthaginian survivors left the camp and retreated to a hill inland, where they attempted to defend themselves. The hill was waterless and they were ultimately forced to surrender. About half of the Carthaginian army and majority of the fleet was destroyed, numerous prisoners and rich booty had fallen into Greek hands. It is commented that the surviving Carthaginian ships were sunk in a storm on their return journey to Africa.\n\nGelo and Theron did not attack Rhegion or the Carthaginian territory in Sicily after the battle. Carthage initially manned the city walls and prepared for a Greek invasion of Africa, and did not renew the struggle either. Gelo offered mild terms to the Carthaginian embassy that arrived asking for a ceasefire. Carthage paid 2,000 silver talents as indemnity, erected two monuments in the memory of Himera, but lost no territory. Selinus and Rhegion also came to terms with Syracuse and Anaxilas married his daughter to Hieron I, brother of Gelo. The status quo before the battle was reestablished - Terrilus being the ultimate loser. Greek culture and trade flourished in Sicily. Gelo, Theron and Hieron built public buildings using the slaves and spoils gained from the battle, such as the Temple of Victory. An era of prosperity began, but infighting among the tyrants ensured that the peace was not unbroken. Carthage focused on expanding in Africa, leaving Sicily alone for 70 years. Apart from an obscure clash in 454 BC, the Greeks and Phoenicians left each other alone in Sicily.\n\nHimera remained in possession of Akragas until 472 BC. Theron expelled the Ionians after they attempted a coup and settled the city with Dorian Greeks. By 466 BC, the Sicilian Greek cities had broken away from the dominions of Gelo and Theron and had overthrown the tyrants' heirs, so in place of three Greek power blocks dominating Sicily (those of Syracuse, Akragas and Rhegion), eleven bickering Greek commonwealths came into being by 461 BC. They continued the Ionic/Doric feud in full force in addition to threatening the native Sicilians. Their actions ultimately led to the \"Second Sicilian War\" and the final destruction of Himera in 409 BC.\n\nDuring the construction of a railway extension in 2008, near the site of the ancient Greek colony of Himera, archeologists uncovered more than 10,000 graves. A number of those graves held the remains of 5th century BC soldiers.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12579757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12579757", "title": "Blow Up (club night)", "text": "Blow Up (club night)\n\nBlow Up is a club night that was founded in the early 1990s by promoter and DJ Paul Tunkin at a North London pub called \"The Laurel Tree\". The night quickly became the centre of the emerging Britpop scene in Camden attracting long queues of people eager to gain entry to the tiny venue. Early regulars included members of Blur, Pulp, Elastica, Suede, The Buzzcocks, Huggy Bear and The Jesus and Mary Chain, leading to the club being referred to as the place where \"Britpop was born\".\n\nThe style of Blow Up and its audience has been noted as an early influence on, and instrumental in, the later mid-Nineties explosion of the Britpop scene in the UK and abroad:\n\nOften mistakenly labelled as purely a 'mod club' by the press, Blow Up had a much wider musical scope than this, although the club was initially started by Tunkin as a reaction to the prevalent grunge/slacker scene which he said \"was so anti-style\". The music played included British Pop and R'n'B from the 1960s (Small Faces, Kinks, Rolling Stones etc.) and Soul, late 1970s new wave (Buzzcocks, Wire etc.) together with emerging new bands mixed in with film soundtracks, 'music library' tracks, Easy Listening and 1960s electronic music (Jean Jacques Perry et al.); anything that fell under Tunkin's term of 'Orgasmic Pop'.\n\nWhen the club first opened in October 1993 its audience was attracted by word of mouth, predominantly made up of Camden locals, as well as a large proportion of people from Tunkin's hometown of Southend. However almost a year after opening in 1994, an early defining point for Blow Up was the publication of a 4-page article in music magazine Select devoted entirely to the club, which attracted people from much further afield fuelling its popularity even further. Blow Up's format and the sharp style of its 'regulars' was in contrast to the ubiquitous indie/rock clubs of the time and it went on to influence many similar nights; referred to by Melody Maker at the height of Britpop in 1995 as \"The Club That Changed The World\". A year later Blow Up was featured in \"Vox\" magazine as one of \"5 clubs that changed the face of clubbing,\" alongside seminal UK punk clubs The Blitz and The Roxy.\n\nIn 1996 the club relocated to Soho into the much larger venue of The Wag Club, and did much to revive the latter's fortunes which had somewhat waned since its '80s heyday. Although Blow Up had played host to the occasional live band in Camden, the larger capacity of the Wag enabled live shows to be hosted on a weekly basis, which continued to reflect the clubs broad musical outlook. Bands that played ranged from stalwarts of the 1960s music scene such as Desmond Dekker, to avant-garde acts such as Chicks On Speed and Stereo Total, and also included a very early show for The Libertines in 1999. In 1999 the club was voted No. 4 in Time Out Magazine's 'Top Ten clubs of the 90s'. When The Wag finally closed in 2001 after 40 years, the last club to be held there was Blow Up.\n\nDuring the last of several short residencies at other Soho venues in 2001 after The Wag's closure, Blow Up took over the running of a venue on London's Oxford Street called The Metro Club, and shortly after the Blow Up club night was moved here. Prior to this The Metro club was known primarily as a club venue, but Blow Up began promoting live shows here too, and in 2002 the venue earned Time Out Magazine's 'Live Venue of The Year' award, attributed to the breakthrough acts booked in their first year there; early shows including bands such as Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Kings of Leon and The Killers. Due to the planned extension of Tottenham Court Road Underground station, the Metro Club was issued a Compulsory Purchase Order by Transport for London with 28 days notice in December 2008, and was forced to close. It held its last Blow Up night on 17 January 2009, also the last night of the venue itself.\n\nBlow Up moved to Bar Rumba, Soho on 24 January 2009, after which it moved to 4 Denmark Street in 2011, followed by several other London residencies and one-off events. It is currently in residence at The Bussey Building (a warehouse/Arts space in Peckham), where it held its 20th Anniversary Party in February 2014. Since 2009 the club has hosted more events in the United States (New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Sacramento) and also returned to Tokyo.\n\n\nThe Blow Up club has also appeared on or as part of the following tours and events (incomplete):\n\nThe club has also held nights around the UK, as well in Europe, Japan, Russia and the United States.\n\nThere is also an affiliated record label Blow Up Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "15495527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15495527", "title": "Commonwealth v. Twitchell", "text": "Commonwealth v. Twitchell\n\nCommonwealth v. Twitchell, 416 Mass. 114, 617 N.E.2d 609 (1993), was the most prominent of a series of criminal cases, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, in which parents who were members of the Christian Science church were prosecuted for the deaths of children whose medical conditions had been treated only by Christian Science prayer.\n\nIn 1988, Massachusetts prosecutors charged David and Ginger Twitchell with manslaughter in the 1986 death of their two-year-old son Robyn. Robyn Twitchell died of a peritonitis caused by a bowel obstruction that medical professionals declared would have been easily correctable.\n\nThe Twitchells' defense contended that the couple were within their First Amendment rights to treat their son's illness with prayer and that Massachusetts had recognized this right in an exemption to the statute outlawing child neglect.\n\nThe Twitchells were convicted of involuntary manslaughter. They were sentenced to ten years probation and required to bring their remaining children to regular visits to a pediatrician. The conviction was overturned in 1993 by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court on a legal technicality. Robert Gittens, speaking for the prosecutors' office commented, \"the law is now clear: parents cannot sacrifice the lives of their children in the name of religious freedom.\"\n"}
{"id": "51190725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51190725", "title": "Cumbia Ninja", "text": "Cumbia Ninja\n\nCumbia Ninja is a Colombian supernatural, mystery-thriller television series created for Fox by Andrés Gelós and produced by Nelson Martínez and María Gowland. The series premiered on Fox on September 5, 2013, and the first season concluded on November 13, 2013. In January 2014, Fox renewed the series for a second season which aired from October 2, 2014. The series is produced by Fox Networks Group and Fox Telecolombia.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nThe first season focuses on Juana Carbajal and Hache. Juana Carbajal is a rich teenager and daughter of prominent businessman Victor Carbajal. She is a girl who has led a life of money without needs, including an overprotective mom. When her family is killed by gunmen sent by her own uncle Leon Carbajal, she must then live with her nanny Elba who rescues her, the only survivor of the slaughter, changing her name to Nieves and her image completely, to look like a street teenager. Hache is a young man with dreams of being a singer who lives in La Colina, a poor neighborhood, and full of problems between rival gangs. He is found by Willy Vega, a manager of talented people at the concert Pin-Piranhas and decides to return him into the great leader of a new band that would replace the Pin-Piranhas after a serious accident: Cumbia Ninja, consisting of Chopín, keyboardist; BitBox, bassist; Karate, guitarist; and Tomb, drummer; Hache being the vocalist. The day of the concert (and also the day of the murder of Carbajal), his brother Chico, gang leader of El Cruce, is murdered, and Hache should assume the role of leader of the gang, but between the mission to lead his new band and lead the gang becomes hard for a bit. His first song in honor of Chico, made the Dragon Sungaku wake after thousand years of being dormant under the Chinese house on the hill. Hache and Nieves meet, and a great love is born, despite the jealousy of Chopín who is also in love with her. Nieves seeps into the house of her uncle, Leon, to find evidence that he was the one who killed or ordered the killing of her family, and Hache, meanwhile, rivaling the leader of the enemy gang, Salmon, which suspected he has something to do with the death of his brother. Nieves is discovered by Ítalo a confidant of Leon, who falls for her. Italo, discovering the affair Nieves and Hache, decide to get to Nieves at all costs, thus signifying the death of several people by him. Salmon, his girlfriend and his partner Talita Jhon Alex, discover the secret under the Chinese cottage of Xiang Wu, the teacher and mentor of Cumbia Ninja, and Sungakus keeper. After several events, Nieves decides to leave to go with Italo. Hache, who convinces going to teIl her is dying and locked to her best friend, Ursula, leaving heartbroken Hache. Master Wu finally makes known to Sungaku Cumbia Ninja, saying that trouble is brewing and that they must protect the dragon with their lives, it is a secret that must not fall into the wrong ears.\n\nThe second season focuses on Leon Carbajal and the precious secret of El Dorado. Leon, the villain of the story, along with Italo seek the secret of Dorado to become richer and in turn take revenge on The Hill. Juana, to save her best friend Ursula from the clutches of Italo, will have to reveal her true identity and at the same time pretend that lost memory. This causes Hache Juana doubt and think if it was it true everything they had lived together. Juana has to live with her Uncle Leo but still looking for evidence to incriminate him as the murderer of her family, who later also serve to shed light on the death of Chico. The Cumbia Ninja will have a new manager, Felix Villalba, who will replace Willy this go with Ursula away from Ítalo. But Felix has a split personality and a dark secret that only tries to sink the band. Sungaku teaches Cumbia Ninja \"Five Impossible Beats,\" which will have to use against the enemy. Juana face a struggle between the thirst for revenge and her heart. Hache lead El Cruce more than ever and finally end 2200 once and for all, mainly salmon, and find out that Jane never lost his memory and that he has always been in his mind and that he loves. He also learns of the relationship Chico's death with the death of the family of Juana, mainly with Victor. Jhon Alex die betrayed by Talita, who proclaimed himself as the owner of La Colina, but Carmenza, mowed fury and suffering of knowing that Talita killed his son Chico, will put an end to the leader of the 2200. The remaining gang members Domis of 2200 bands, they will make a peace deal and will join El Cruce, and will help Hache to give their final battle against Italo, who has kidnapped Juana. On the day of the Battle of the Bands, the Ninja Cumbia are disqualified when confronted with a major problem: Leo is the pyramid, but falls into the ambush of Juana and Hache, who along with Sungaku, they make Carbajal get their comeuppance. The Cumbia Ninja give a great concert at La Cima with the rival gang, Globulin. Finally, Leo is arrested, and Jane and Hache distance themselves again. Felix, he starts preparing his revenge on the hill, but mainly against Sungaku.\n\nThe third season focuses on the ancestral fight between the Dragon and the Jaguar. A year after the death of Chico, La Colina is at peace. The Cumbia Ninja become as great music idols, now having Jessica as a member of the band after BitBox left. Hache still feel that the neighborhood, the band and especially Sungaku still expect more from him. But since he left to go to Juana and nothing interests him, not even music. Hache feels responsible for everything that has been happening. In turn, it did not get peace Juana expected. His time at La Colina left her broken inside and return to his previous life is not enough. Without love and revenge that boost to go ahead, Juana lost in the excesses of wealthy heiress, endangering his life. Juana is in a stage of much self-destruction and an identity crisis, but eventually will find a guide, someone who will help you move forward: Felix, which will advise pursue revenge for the death of his family She is telling him that everything was not guilty of Leon, but the secret of Sungaku. Leon will rot in prison until the power of Balam will help to be respected there. Italian finally awakens after being helped by Felix, and seek revenge on the Ninja Cumbia, mainly Hache. Now a hidden power appears from the shadows and both come to discover the truth of the mysterious force that caused tragic events in La Colina and also to Carbajal, the force that makes opponents. Felix Juana will train with the power of Jaguar to become his successor. In turn, Wu Xiang Hache will train with the power of the Dragon for the battle ahead. Leon will have its deserved and will be killed in prison after betraying Balam. It will reveal that Felix is actually the ancient enemy of the Dragon Sungaku, the Jaguar Balam, after this murder Xiang Wu. Balam appear for a final battle, a confrontation is inevitable but the only ones who can save the fate of La Colina be Juana and Hache. They decide to end it all and to achieve last game where the forces of the Dragon and the Jaguar they leave forever, thus obtaining Balam death at the hands of Italo paddling. Finally, everything ends, and then scatter the ashes of Wu Xiang, Hache and Juana leave to live a happy life together.\n\n\n\nIn January 2015, Fox announced the cast of the series including actors Brenda Asnicar and Ricardo Abarca were. The first season series premiered on September 5, 2013, and ended on November 28, 2013, with 13 episodes aired on Thursdays. In a prinicipio it was scheduled only 13 episodes. But due to the success, Fox decided to renew the series for a second season.\n\n\"Cumbia Ninja\" is the first scripted original series on FOX. The series creator and showrunner Andrés Gelós, who also directed the pilot and other episodes.\n\nThe first part of the second season began on October 2, 2014, and ended on November 20, 2014, with eight episodes aired. The second part was scheduled to begin on January 22, 2015, until March 19, 2015. But according to Fox, there was a change of plans and then announced that the second part aired from March 2015.\n\nOn December 3, 2014, Fox confirmed the third season of the series and began filming on January 15, 2015. The third season premiered on October 29, 2015, and ended on December 17, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "23608000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23608000", "title": "Czechtalent Zlín", "text": "Czechtalent Zlín\n\nCzechtalent Zlín (was known as Zlín Talent) is a national musical festival held in the town of Zlín in the Czech Republic, featuring young up-and-coming singers and composers. It is an annual event held in July, and was first held in May 1996 with Boney M and Peter Nagy appearing as guests.\n\n"}
{"id": "38289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38289", "title": "Depression (economics)", "text": "Depression (economics)\n\nIn economics, a depression is a sustained, long-term downturn in economic activity in one or more economies. It is a more severe economic downturn than a recession, which is a slowdown in economic activity over the course of a normal business cycle.\n\nA depression is an unusual and extreme form of recession. Depressions are characterized by their length, by abnormally large increases in unemployment, falls in the availability of credit (often due to some form of banking or financial crisis), shrinking output as buyers dry up and suppliers cut back on production and investment, large number of bankruptcies including sovereign debt defaults, significantly reduced amounts of trade and commerce (especially international trade), as well as highly volatile relative currency value fluctuations (often due to currency devaluations). Price deflation, financial crises and bank failures are also common elements of a depression that do not normally occur during a recession.\n\nIn the United States the National Bureau of Economic Research determines contractions and expansions in the business cycle, but does not declare depressions. Generally, periods labeled depressions are marked by a substantial and sustained shortfall of the ability to purchase goods relative to the amount that could be produced using current resources and technology (potential output). Another proposed definition of \"depression\" includes two general rules:\n\nThere are also differences in the duration of depression across definitions. Some economists refer only to the period when economic activity is declining. The more common use, however, also encompasses the time until economic activity has returned close to normal levels.\n\nA recession is briefly defined as a period of declining economic activity spread across the economy (according to NBER). Under the first definition, each depression will always coincide with a recession, since the difference between a depression and a recession is the severity of the fall in economic activity. In other words, each depression is always a recession, sharing the same starting and ending dates and having the same duration.\n\nUnder the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events however, having the same starting dates. This definition of depression implies that a recession and a depression will have different ending dates and thus distinct durations. Under this definition, the length of a depression will always be longer than that of the recession starting the same date.\n\nA useful example is the difference in the chronology of the Great Depression in the U.S. under the view of alternative definitions. Using the second definition of depression, most economists refer to the Great Depression, as the period between 1929 and 1941. On the other hand, using the first definition, the depression that started in August 1929 lasted until March 1933. Note that NBER, which publishes the recession (instead of depression) dates for the U.S. economy, has identified two recessions during that period. The first between August 1929 and March 1933 and the second starting in May 1937 and ending in June 1938.\n\nToday the term \"depression\" is most often associated with the Great Depression of the 1930s, but the term had been in use long before then. Indeed, an early major American economic crisis, the Panic of 1819, was described by then-president James Monroe as \"a depression\", and the economic crisis immediately preceding the 1930s depression, the Depression of 1920–21, was referred to as a \"depression\" by president Calvin Coolidge.\n\nHowever, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, \"financial\" crises were traditionally referred to as \"panics\", e.g., the 'major' Panic of 1907, and the 'minor' Panic of 1910–1911, though the 1929 crisis was more commonly called \"The Crash\", and the term \"panic\" has since fallen out of use. At the time of the Great Depression (of the 1930s), the phrase \"The Great Depression\" had already been used to refer to the period 1873–96 (in the United Kingdom), or more narrowly 1873–79 (in the United States), which has since been renamed the Long Depression.\n\nCommon use of the phrase \"The Great Depression\" for the 1930s crisis is most frequently attributed to British economist Lionel Robbins, whose 1934 book \"The Great Depression\" is credited with 'formalizing' the phrase, though US president Herbert Hoover is widely credited with having 'popularized' the term/phrase, informally referring to the downturn as a \"depression\", with such uses as \"Economic depression cannot be cured by legislative action or executive pronouncement\", (December 1930, Message to Congress) and \"I need not recount to you that the world is passing through a great depression\" (1931).\n\nDue to the lack of an agreed definition and the strong negative associations, the characterization of any period as a \"depression\" is contentious. The term was frequently used for regional crises from the early 19th century until the 1930s, and for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s, but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as \"recessions\", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as \"stagflation\", but not a depression. The only two eras commonly referred to at the current time as \"depressions\" are the 1870s and 1930s.\n\nTo some degree this is simply a stylistic change, similar to the decline in the use of \"panic\" to refer to financial crises, but it does also reflect that the economic cycle – both in the United States and in most OECD countries – though not in all – has been more moderate since 1945.\n\nThere \"have\" been many periods of prolonged economic underperformance in particular countries/regions since 1945, detailed below, but terming these as \"depressions\" is controversial. The current economic cycle, which has comprised the most significant global crisis since the Great Depression, has at times been termed a depression, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the \"Great Recession\".\n\nThe Panic of 1837 was an American financial crisis, built on a speculative real estate market. The bubble burst on May 10, 1837 in New York City, when every bank stopped payment in gold and silver coinage. The Panic was followed by a five-year depression, with the failure of banks and record high unemployment levels.\n\nStarting with the adoption of the gold standard in Britain and the United States, the Long Depression (1873–1896) was indeed longer than what is now referred to as the Great Depression, but shallower. However, it was known as \"the Great Depression\" until the 1930s.\n\nThe best-known depression was the Great Depression, which affected most national economies in the world throughout the 1930s. This depression is generally considered to have begun with the Wall Street Crash of 1929, and the crisis quickly spread to other national economies. Between 1929 and 1933, the gross national product of the United States decreased by 33% while the rate of unemployment increased to 25% (with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 35% – U.S. employment was still over 25% agricultural). \n\nA long-term effect of the Great Depression was the departure of every major currency from the gold standard, although the initial impetus for this was World War II (see Bretton Woods Accord). In any case, the world economy has simply outgrown the capacity of additions to the world gold supply to accommodate the increase in world population and increased trade without periodic, painful revaluations of any currencies tied to gold.\n\nBeginning in 2009, Greece sank into a recession that, after two years, became a depression. The country saw an almost 20% drop in economic output, and unemployment soared to near 25%. Greece's high amounts of sovereign debt precipitated the crisis, and the poor performance of its economy since the introduction of severe austerity measures has slowed the entire eurozone's recovery. Greece's continuing troubles have led to discussions about its departure from the eurozone.\n\nThe late 1910s and early 1920s were marked by an economic depression that unraveled in particularly catastrophic circumstances: The Great War and its aftermath led to a global nosedive in commodities that ruined many developing nations, while servicemen returning from the trenches found themselves with high unemployment as businesses failed, unable to transition into a peacetime economy. Also, the Spanish flu pandemic of 1918-20 brought economic activity to a standstill as even more people became incapacitated. Most developed countries had mostly recovered by 1921-22, however Germany saw its economy crippled until 1923-24 because of the hyperinflation crisis.\n\nThe 1973 oil crisis, coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a recession between 1973 and 1975, followed by a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment. The 1980-82 recession marked the end of the period.\n\nThe savings & loans and the leveraged buyout crises led to a severe depression in mid-to-late 1989, causing a recession in 1990-91 (also fueled by the oil price crisis), whose effects lasted as late as 1994. This downturn is more remembered for its political effects: British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had to resign in November 1990 as a result of the socioeconomic debacle caused by her later policies; and while his approval ratings were above 60%, U.S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and increasing urban decay.\n\nIn 2005, the persistent oil price rises and economic overheating caused by deregulation led to a gradual deterioration of the world economy with inflation and unemployment rising as growth slowed down: The housing bubble in the U.S. burst in 2007, and the American economy slipped into a recession. This in turn provoked the failure of many prominent financial institutions throughout 2008, most notably Lehman Brothers, leading to the loss of millions of jobs.\n\nSeveral Latin American countries had severe downturns in the 1980s: by the Kehoe and Prescott definition of a great depression as at least one year with output 20% below trend, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Mexico experienced great depressions in the 1980s, and Argentina experienced another in 1998–2002. South American countries fell once again into this in the early-to-mid 2010s as a result of falling prices of commodities such as in the 1980s, with the economies of Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela falling into recession as massive government spending further strained their financial situation.\n\nThis definition also includes the economic performance of New Zealand from 1974–1992 and Switzerland from 1973 to the present, although this designation for Switzerland has been controversial.\n\nOver the period 1980–2000, Sub-Saharan Africa broadly suffered a fall in absolute income levels.\n\nThe economic crisis in the 1990s that struck former members of the Soviet Union was almost twice as intense as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s. Average standards of living registered a catastrophic fall in the early 1990s in many parts of the former Eastern Bloc, most notably in post-Soviet states. Even before Russia's financial crisis of 1998, Russia's GDP was half of what it had been in the early 1990s. Some populations are still poorer today than they were in 1989 (e.g. Ukraine, Moldova, Serbia, Central Asia, Caucasus). The collapse of the Soviet planned economy and the transition to market economy resulted in catastrophic declines in GDP of about 45% during the 1990–1996 period and poverty in the region had increased more than tenfold.\n\nFinnish economists refer to the Finnish economic decline around the breakup of the Soviet Union (1989–1994) as a great depression (\"suuri lama\"). However, the depression was multicausal, with its severity compounded by a coincidence of multiple sudden external shocks, including loss of Soviet trade, the savings and loan crisis and early 1990s recession in the West, with the internal overheating that had been brewing throughout the 1980s. Liberalization had resulted in the so-called \"casino economy\". Persistent structural and monetary policy problems had not been solved, leaving the economy vulnerable to even mild external shocks. The depression had lasting effects: the Finnish markka was floated and was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment. Employment has never returned even close to pre-crisis level.\n\n"}
{"id": "49312534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49312534", "title": "Destruction of ivory", "text": "Destruction of ivory\n\nThe destruction of ivory is a technique used by governments and conservation groups to deter the poaching of elephants for their tusks and to suppress the illegal ivory trade. , more than of ivory has been destroyed, typically by burning or crushing, in these high-profile events in 21 countries around the world. Kenya held the first event in 1989, as well as the largest event in 2016, when a total of 105 tonnes of ivory were incinerated.\n\nThe conservationists, governments, and non-governmental organizations that endorse the strategy argue that it fosters public support for the protection of elephants and that it sends a message to poachers their work is futile. Critics contend that the technique may increase poaching by creating a perception of scarcity that increases ivory's value on the black market, and that evidence for the technique's effectiveness is insufficient to justify the opportunity cost for countries struggling with poverty.\n\nArchaeological findings show human use of ivory to date back more than 35,000 years. It has been exported to Europe since at least Classical antiquity, but exporting accelerated during the Age of Exploration and colonisation of Africa. At its peak, at the end of the 19th century and early 20th century, with the rise of mass production, well over 1000 tons of ivory were exported to Europe yearly. In the last quarter of the 19th century, the city of Sheffield, England alone imported 180 tons just for cutlery handles. In the 1970s, Japan became the largest consumer of ivory, accounting for about 40% of all trade worldwide, with Hong Kong acting as the largest trade hub.\n\nHunting for ivory is responsible for significant reductions in elephant populations in several parts of Africa. Between 1979 and 1989, the African elephant population decreased in size from 1.3 million to 600,000. Ivory became a billion-dollar market, with about 80% of the supply taken from illegally killed elephants. , according to a report by the Wildlife Conservation Society, about 96 African elephants are killed for their tusks every day.\n\nIn 1986, CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) introduced a control system based on permits, registration, stockpiles, and monitoring. Shortly thereafter, the CITES Secretariat weakened regulations, effectively legalizing stockpiles of poached ivory. For example, countries such as Burundi and Singapore, which were not home to wild elephants, registered 89.5 and 297 tons of trafficked ivory, respectively. As uncovered by the Environmental Investigation Agency, the \"control system\" turned out to be easy to manipulate, ultimately increasing the value of ivory and empowering smugglers. At the October 1989 CITES convention in Geneva, representatives from Tanzania proposed an effective ban on the international ivory trade. After heated debates, the ban was enacted, and went into effect in January 1990.\n\nThe ban proved effective for about a decade, and saw rising elephant populations, but starting in 1997 CITES began granting exceptions to the ban to allow countries such as Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Namibia to sell a limited amount of ivory, as well as an exception to Japan to buy a limited amount, based on each country's declared confidence in their effective regulation and control. From 1998 to 2011, other countries were granted exceptions and illegal trafficking at least tripled. The majority of ivory in the 21st century has gone to growing Asian markets, including and especially China, where the material has been viewed as a status symbol sometimes known as \"white gold\". In 2015, Chinese officials expressed their intent to phase out the country's involvement with the ivory trade. Prices fell by nearly half in the year prior to a 2016 report, and at the end of that year China's State Council declared its intent to halt ivory-related commerce by the end of March 2017.\n\nIn 1989 Richard Leakey, a paleoanthropologist and conservationist from the prominent Leakey family, was named head of Kenya's Wildlife Conservation and Management Department, the forerunner to today's Kenya Wildlife Service. Elephant hunting had been banned in 1973, but the ivory trade remained legal. By the 1980s, elephant poaching had become widespread due to the increasing price of ivory. In a May 1989 article, \"The New York Times\" described Tsavo National Park as \"an elephant graveyard - piles of bleached white elephant bones - instead of an elephant habitat\". Kenyan officials knew the value of the elephant to safari tourism, and wanted to persuade CITES to include the animal on its global endangered species list at its October 1989 meeting.\n\nWhen Leakey took the position, the organization had 12 tons of confiscated illegal ivory in its possession, which he was urged to sell in order to fund conservation efforts. Instead, he piled all of it together and, with Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi, set it on fire. Ivory does not easily burn, but the choice to use fire rather than other means to destroy it was intentional as Leakey wanted the event to produce powerful images for the global media. To make the destruction spectacular, Leakey worked with a Hollywood special effects professional to devise an innovative pyrotechnics technique using jet fuel and flammable glue.\n\nIt was a successful publicity stunt, attracting international attention from the press while the fire burned for three days. It also proved influential among conservationists, encouraging others to dispose of their stockpiles in a similar manner and leading, in part, to the international ban on the ivory trade passed at CITES. Paul Udoto of the Kenya Wildlife Service called it a \"desperate measure meant to send a message to the world about the destruction through poaching of Kenya's elephants.\"\nKenya has held three more ivory burns since 1989. The second was just two years later in 1991, destroying 6.8 tons. Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki held the country's third event in 2011, destroying another five tons of ivory.\n\nOn 30 April 2016, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta set alight the largest ever pile of ivory for destruction in the Nairobi National Park. The pile consisted of 105 tonnes of elephant ivory from about 8,000 elephants and 1.35 tonnes of horns from 343 rhinoceroses. Estimates for the total black market value of the destroyed contraband range from $150 million to $220 million. The ivory was transported to the site in shipping containers then stacked into towers up to tall and in diameter. The ivory towers took personnel from the Kenya Wildlife Service ten days to build. The pyre also contained exotic animal skins. The amount of ivory destroyed equaled about 5% of the global stock. Gabonese President Ali Bongo Ondimba was also in attendance.\n\n, more than of ivory has been destroyed in high-profile events in 21 countries around the world.\n\n\n\n\nDestroying ivory by any practical means is difficult. Burning is the most common method of large-scale destruction of ivory. When Kenya burned 12 tons of it in 1989, it created a major media spectacle and inspired similar actions around the world. More recently, crushing methods have also been used, as well as combinations of crushing and burning.\n\nWhen Kenyan officials decided to destroy their stockpile in 1989, they had to find a way to do so that would create powerful images. Leakey turned to fellow conservationist Kuki Gallmann, who described their discussions and experiments in her memoir \"I Dreamed of Africa\". She asked Hollywood special effects professional Robin Hollister what he would recommend, and introduced him to Leakey. Hollister understood Leakey's intention to create a spectacle, and the importance of producing an immediate dramatic flare-up. He suggested a combination of flammable glue to coat the tusks, and a hidden system of pipes to spray them with fuel. His plans were adopted, and when the Kenyan President held a torch to the waiting pile, \"Flames flared up in a scalding blaze. […] The ivory blackened and started burning, crackling. Deafening applause burst out from the crowd, while television crews from all over the world showed to every corner of the Earth this new sacrifice of Africa.\"\nResearch performed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) in 2008, found burning to be an inefficient and highly challenging way to destroy ivory when compared to crushing. Like human teeth, elephant tusks are resistant to burning. Simple burning typically just chars the outside; it requires extreme conditions over a long period of time to destroy ivory effectively. Using specialized equipment to burn a tusk at , its weight decreases by only each minute (an average African elephant tusk is about and can weigh as much as . For each of Kenya's burns, organizers used jet oil to increase the temperature and it still persists for about a week.\n\nWhen only the outside is affected, the inner ivory is still commercially viable. As there are not yet verified techniques for identifying ivory that was previously burned, some have expressed concerns regarding the possible use of some of the burned stockpiles.\nHollister, the original \"burn architect\" who invented the technique in 1989, was asked to lead the 2016 burn, which was many times bigger than the first. He acknowledged that ivory doesn't really burn: \"we have to raise the temperature in the fires to such a degree that it actually disintegrates. We're going to create [that] by combining kerosene and diesel and compressed air, pushing it at very high pressure, about 16 bar, down a pipe.\" The question of the effectiveness of the destruction – even the possibility that some of the partially combusted ivory may find its way back to the black market – is a touchy subject. \"It's heresy to consider any other form of destruction, leave alone finding any other way to use the ivory or utilise wildlife resources.\"\n\nCrushing can also be challenging. In 2013, the Philippines resolved to crush their five-ton stockpile, in part due to environmental objections to a large open fire. They first attempted to use a road roller on the tusks and then on smaller, sawn-off pieces. When that did not work, the pieces were repeatedly smashed with a backhoe bucket. What was left was taken to a crematory. When the United States held a similar event a few months later, they opted to use a large rock crusher; a short time later, France employed a pulverizer to turn its illegal ivory into a powder onto which was then poured a composite material to ensure that none of the ivory could be used.\n\nDestroying ivory is a tactic endorsed by several governments, activists, and NGOs.\n\nRichard Leakey, who was responsible for the first major ivory destruction in Kenya in 1989, argues that these acts are primarily about sending a message to foster a public that sees the value in wildlife itself, not its byproducts, and thereby influencing the demand side of the market. In explaining the \"enormous impact\" that he saw after the 1989 event, Leakey said that \"up to that time we'd been losing about three and a half thousand to four thousand elephants a year, and a year later we were losing at most sixty.\" Consumer research in China, the world's largest consumer of ivory, showed that many potential buyers have little understanding of the connection between the ivory trade and steep declines in elephant populations. High-profile government events bring the problem to large numbers of people and affirm a government stance for anyone who had been unclear. The events also aim to signal decreasing acceptance and popularity of ivory goods, making them less desirable by lowering their status and shaming individuals, organizations, and institutions who buy, sell, or own the goods. In China, prices fell by nearly half between 2015 and 2016, following the government announcement that it would begin phasing out its domestic ivory trade. According to Hongxiang Huang in a report by \"NPR\", the decline was not likely due to conservation reasons, but because \"[o]ne thing that proud Chinese people don't want to be, these days, is behind the times.\"\n\nAdvocates also believe that destroying ivory can influence the supply side of the ivory market by sending a strong, highly visible and well-publicized message that the ivory market is dangerous and futile. Similarly, those who would otherwise consider ivory as an investment opportunity may think twice if the market is so consistently disrupted. French Minister of Ecology Philippe Martin called the destruction of ivory \"indispensable in the fight against trafficking of threatened species\" and said that it sends \"a firm message\".\n\nIn Botswana, which is home to almost half of the elephants in Africa, officials are opposed to destroying ivory stockpiles , and President Ian Khama publicly boycotted the 2016 Kenyan burn. Botswanan officials believe that burning tusks communicates that the animal does not have value. Instead, confiscated goods like ivory and rhinoceros horns are displayed to symbolize the value of wildlife conservation. An example of this was the 2015 unveiling of an elephant statue, made entirely of ivory tusks, at the country's main international airport in Gaborone. \n\nSeveral journalists and conservationists have challenged the logic of the strategy, arguing that destroying the ivory makes it scarcer, which should drive up black market prices and lead to an increase in poaching, rather than a decrease. Karl Mathiesen disputes this claim from a basic economics perspective, pointing out that it is the seizure of the ivory, not destroying it, which takes it off the market and affects its scarcity, so the price should not be significantly affected based on whether that seized ivory is kept stockpiled in a warehouse or destroyed. Although destroying seized ivory should not affect a perfectly rational market, Daniel Stiles suggests that what these events effectively communicate to poachers and illegal traders is the perception of scarcity, if not actual scarcity, which he argues could also lead to an increase in poaching.\n\nAn example several commentators point to is a 2014 study funded by Save the Elephants that found that the price of ivory tripled in China during four years following 2011. It correlated that trend to an increase in poaching as well as an increase in the frequency of high-profile events in which stockpiles were destroyed. Research published by the National Bureau of Economic Research offer an alternative theory: that the increase in price and demand \"likely originated\" with CITES's experimental allowance of a legal sale of a large amount of ivory in 2008. More recently, however, Save the Elephants reported the cost of ivory in China has fallen by nearly half, following an announcement by the Chinese government that it would phase out its domestic trade. In Japan, the demand for ivory has decreased since 2012 as a result of new consumer awareness through education about the connection between buying ivory and the killing of elephants.\n\nUltimately, Mathiesen describes the debate as \"characterized by a lack of data\", while Tom Milliken concluded in 2014 that the strategy needs to be closely monitored for effectiveness and that more data needs to be collected because there was not sufficient \"proof that destroying supply leads to a decline in demand\".\n\nA related concern expressed by Stiles is that perceived scarcity may lead countries still active in the ivory trade to create stockpiles of their own, owing to \"the senseless system now in operation\" in countries like the United States, Thailand, and China, whereby international ivory trade is considered illegal but domestic trade is permitted, ensuring at least some continued demand and, in Stiles's view, \"guaranteeing extinction of the elephant\".\n\nInstead of destroying confiscated ivory, a government could choose to sell it, and put the funds to use in one of several ways. Several of the countries involved in the ivory trade, especially those on the supply side in Africa, are also some of the nations which struggle the most with poverty. Destroying ivory in those countries is thus often a controversial decision for internal stakeholders as well as external commentators, as the funds gained by selling the material could be used to improve the quality of life for human citizens.\n\nConfiscated ivory could also be sold to pay for conservation efforts. Zimbabwe, for example, which has long opposed the ban on the ivory trade, publicly refuses to destroy its 70-ton stockpile. the country is home to 83,000 elephants, but with its current economic situation it cannot afford continuing conservation efforts. According to Environment Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, \"To us, burning is not an option, we need the resources for sustainable wildlife conservation.\"\n\nEconomic research published in 2016 analyzed the efficacy of a one-time legal sale of ivory stockpiles to China and Japan, allowed by CITES in 2008. The idea was to try to flood the market, sinking prices and profitability, but the result was \"catastrophic\" according to one researcher, who attributes to it a significant, long-term increase in poaching due to factors like a reduction of the social stigma of ivory and providing a mechanism to obscure smuggling activities. Christopher Alden, who supported but did not take part in this analysis, specifically criticized requests from countries like Zimbabwe and Namibia to allow limited sales, due to the likelihood of them having a similar counterproductive outcome.\n\nAlthough the destruction of ivory is centered upon conservation, there are other considerations which affect institutions' decisions on the matter.\n\nWhen Hong Kong announced the destruction of its stockpile, it noted \"the management burden and the security risk\" inherent in the possession of large quantities of valuable material. For example, when the Philippines decided to burn its stockpile, only a fraction of what it had confiscated over the years remained, with at least six tons \"lost\" or stolen during the 2000s alone. Stockpiles of ivory have often been connected to theft and corruption, with multiple countries, including Zambia, Mozambique, Botswana, and the Philippines, suffering \"losses\" of several tons. Keeping illicit goods on hand can also signal government plans or active involvement with the ivory trade. Destroying it removes the possibility of corruption as well as the costs associated with operating a secure place of storage.\n\nFor Paula Kahumbu, CEO of Kenya's WildlifeDirect, maintaining stockpiles does too much to enable illegal trade to justify keeping it rather than destroying it. She told \"NPR\" that when an ivory dealer wants to obtain ivory, the most sensible way to do so is not to go hunting, which carries many risks, but to \"raid a stockpile by bribing the guy who has the key\". She gives examples of tusks being lost from vaults and even courtroom exhibits due to corruption.\n\nIn the United States, research linking the ivory trade to terrorism and organized crime has tied the destruction of ivory stockpiles to national security, not just conservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3367515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3367515", "title": "Dowry death", "text": "Dowry death\n\nDowry deaths are deaths of women who are murdered or driven to suicide by continuous harassment and torture by husbands and in-laws in an effort to extort an increased dowry.\n\nDowry deaths are found predominantly in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Iran. India reports the highest total number of dowry deaths with 8,391 such deaths reported in 2010, 1.4 deaths per 100,000 women. Adjusted for population, Pakistan, with 2,000 reported such deaths per year, has the highest rate of dowry death at 2.45 per 100,000 women.\n\nDowry death is considered one of the many categories of violence against women, alongside rape, bride burning, eve teasing, and acid throwing.\n\nMost dowry deaths occur when the young woman, unable to bear the harassment and torture, commits suicide. Most of these suicides are by hanging, poisoning or by fire. Sometimes the woman is killed by setting her on fire by her husband or inlaws ; this is known as \"bride burning\", and sometimes disguised as suicide or accident. Death by burning of Indian women have been more frequently attributed to dowry conflicts. In dowry deaths, the groom's family is the perpetrator of murder or suicide.\n\nIndia has by far the highest number of dowry related deaths in the world according to Indian National Crime Record Bureau. In 2012, 18,233 dowry death cases were reported across India. This means a bride was burned every 90 minutes, or dowry issues cause 1.4 deaths per year per 100,000 women in India.Crime statistics in India , Government of India (2011)\n\nAccording to a 1996 report by Indian police, every year it receives over 2,500 reports of bride-burning. The Indian National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reports that there were about 8331 dowry death cases registered in India in 2011. Incidents of dowry deaths during the year 2008 (8172) have increased by 14.4 per cent over 1998 level (7146), while India's population grew at 17.6% over the 10-year period. The accuracy of these figures have received a great deal of scrutiny from critics who believe dowry deaths are consistently under-reported.\n\nDowry deaths in India is not limited to any specific religion. The ratio of dowry deaths are about the same as the ratio of population in India by religions.\n\nThe \"Dowry Prohibition Act\" of 1961 prohibits the request, payment or acceptance of a dowry, \"as consideration for the marriage\", where \"dowry\" is defined as a gift demanded or given as a precondition for a marriage. Gifts given without a precondition are not considered dowry, and are legal. Asking or giving of dowry can be punished by an imprisonment of up to six months, or a fine of up to . It replaced several pieces of anti-dowry legislation that had been enacted by various Indian states. Murder and suicide under compulsion are addressed by India's criminal penal code.\n\nIndian women's rights activists campaigned for more than 40 years for laws to contain dowry deaths, such as the \"Dowry Prohibition Act\" 1961 and the more stringent Section 498a of Indian Penal Code (enacted in 1983). Under the \"Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005\" (PWDVA), a woman can put a stop to the dowry harassment by approaching a domestic violence protection officer.\n\nAlthough Indian laws against dowries have been in effect for decades, they have been largely criticised as being ineffective. The practice of dowry deaths and murders continues to take place unchecked in many parts of India and this has further added to the concerns of enforcement.\n\nIn Pakistan, the giving and expectation of a dowry (called \"Jahez\") is part of the culture, with over 95% of marriages in every region of Pakistan involving transfer of a dowry from the bride's family to a groom's family.\n\nDowry deaths have been rising in Pakistan for decades. Dowry-related violence and deaths have been widespread for many decades. At over 2000 dowry-related deaths per year, and annual rates exceeding 2.45 deaths per 100,000 women from dowry-related violence, Pakistan has the highest reported number of dowry death rates per 100,000 women in the world.\n\nThere is some controversy on the dowry death rates in Pakistan. Some publications suggest Pakistan officials do not record dowry deaths, the death rates are culturally under-reported and may be significantly higher. For example, Nasrullah reports total average annual stove burn rates of 33 per 100,000 women in Pakistan, of which 49% were intentional, or an average annual rate of about 16 per 100,000 women.\n\nPakistan's \"Dowry and Marriage Gifts (Restriction) Bill\", 2008, restricts dowry to PKR 30,000 (~US$300) while the total value of bridal gifts is limited to PKR 50,000. The law made demands for a dowry by the groom's family illegal, as well as public display of dowry before or during the wedding. However, this and similar anti-dowry laws of 1967, 1976 and 1998, as well as \"Family Court Act\" of 1964 have proven to be unenforceable. Activists such as SACHET, Pakistan claim the police refuse to register and prosecute allegations of dowry-related domestic violence and fatal injuries.\n\nVarious military and democratically elected civil governments in Pakistan have tried to outlaw traditional display of dowry and expensive parties (\"walima\"). One such attempt was the Act of 1997, Ordinance (XV) of 1998 and Ordinance (III) of 1999. These were challenged in the Supreme Court of Pakistan. The petitioner cited a number of hadiths under religious Sharia laws to demonstrate that Islam encouraged \"walima\" and related customary practices. The petitioner claimed that the Pakistan government's effort to enact these laws are against the injunctions of Islam. The Supreme Court ruled these laws and ordinances unconstitutional.\n\nIn Bangladesh, dowry is called joutuk, and a significant cause of deaths as well. Between 0.6 and 2.8 brides per year per 100,000 women are reported to die because of dowry-related violence in recent years. The methods of death include suicides, fire and other forms of domestic violence. In 2013, Bangladesh reported 4,470 women were victims of dowry-related violence over a 10-month period, or dowry violence victimized about 7.2 brides per year per 100,000 women in Bangladesh.\n\nDowry is an ancient custom of Persia, and locally called \"jahâz\" (sometimes spelled \"jahiziyeh\"). Dowry-related violence and deaths in Iran are reported in Iranian newspapers, some of which appear in English media. Kiani et al., in a 2014 study, report dowry deaths in Iran.\n\nReports of incidents of dowry deaths have attracted public interest and sparked a global activist movement seeking to end the practice. Of this activist community, the United Nations (UN) has played a pivotal role in combating violence against women, including dowry deaths.\n\nThe United Nations has been an advocate for women's rights since its inception in 1945, explicitly stating so in its Charter's Preamble, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (adopted in 1948), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (adopted in 1966), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (also adopted in 1966) (these three documents are known collectively as the International Bill of Rights) and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) (2012).\n\nThe United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), though predominately focused on improving the quality of education available to children globally, has also taken a proactive stance against dowry death. On March 9 (International Women's Day), 2009, at a press conference in Washington D.C., UNICEF's Executive Director, Ann M. Veneman, publicly condemned dowry deaths and the legislative systems which allow the culprits to go unpunished. In 2009, UNICEF launched its first Strategic Priority Action Plan for Gender Equality, which was followed by a second Action Plan in 2010. The aim of these plans has been to make gender equality a higher priority within all international UNICEF programs and functions.\n\nAmnesty International, in an effort to educate the public, has cited dowry deaths as a major contributor to global violence against women. Also, in their annual human rights evaluations, Amnesty International criticizes India for the occurrences of dowry deaths as well as the impunity provided to its perpetrators.\n\nHuman Rights Watch has also criticized the Indian government for its inability to make any progress towards eliminating dowry deaths and its lackluster performance for bringing its perpetrators to justice in 2011. In 2004, the Global Fund for Women launched its \"Now or Never\" funding project. This campaign hopes to raise funds domestically and consequently finance the efforts of feminist organizations across the globe - including Indian women's rights activists. the Now or Never fund has raised and distributed about $7 million.\n\nA relatively smaller organization, V-Day, has dedicated itself to ending violence against women. By arranging events such as plays, art shows, and workshops in communities and college campuses across the United States, V-Day raises funds and educates the public on topics of gender-based violence including dowry death. Full-length plays on dowry deaths include 'The Bride Who Would Not Burn'\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27194911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27194911", "title": "Drift Allstars", "text": "Drift Allstars\n\nDrift Allstars Championship – is a professional drifting series that on average 50 drivers and teams, from at least 16 nations compete in a 10 stop Grand Prix series driving powerful and modified saloon cars. The Series was part of a hybrid investment and sponsorship deal in 2014 when from 2014 and until the end of 2015, it was backed by Extreme and Alistair Gosling and his professional management team.\n\nThe 2014 Championship kicked off at the Olympic Park, London in May and finished in Athens, Greece in September. Video clip from London\n\nFor 2015 and beyond the new management team of Extreme and Niall Gunn were working with new promoters around the world to bring the Drift Allstars brand to arenas, tracks, stadiums and city centers and have added music to the line-up with both bands and DJs being part of the offer.\n\nBased on the public interest social media is being used extensively to grow the brand and championship. The Facebook fan base is 1.44 million liking the brand, up from 171,000 in 2014.\n\nTV - The 2014 8 x 30 minute part Drift Allstars TV show has been and is broadcast across 39 countries into 95 million household's on the following networks Pan Europe EXTREME TV, UK/Ireland – BT Sports, Bulgaria – BNT, Finland – MTV3, Italy – Fox Sports, Greece – Fox Sports, Cyprus – Fox Sports, Norway – Viasat, Sweden – Viasat, Lithuania – Viasat Baltics, Latvia – Viasat Baltics, Estonia – Viasat Baltics, Romania – Digi Sport, Russia – Auto Plus, UAE – OSN Network, Turkey – Fox Sports, USA – MAV TV, New Zealand – TV3, Asia – Eurosport Asia, Thailand – True Visions\n\nIt was Formerly and originally known as JDM Allstars when Niall Gunn formed it in 2008, with an inaugural structure of 3 events named the JDM Allstars TRIPLE Crown Series. These 3 lead events showcased at Teesside Autodrome, Lydden Hill Circuit and Europe's first street course at Wembley Stadium. Between early 2014 and to the end of 2015 Alistair Gosling and Extreme, who are backed by Kleinwort Benson Bank were supporting running and investing in Drift Allstars to take the brand to the next level.\n\n"}
{"id": "61536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61536", "title": "Explorer 1", "text": "Explorer 1\n\nExplorer 1 was the first satellite of the United States, launched as part of its participation in the International Geophysical Year. The mission followed the first two satellites the previous year; the Soviet Union's Sputnik 1 and 2, beginning the Cold War Space Race between the two nations.\n\nExplorer 1 was launched on January 31, 1958 at 22:48 Eastern Time (February 1, 03:48 UTC) atop the first Juno booster from LC-26 at the Cape Canaveral Missile Annex, Florida. It was the first spacecraft to detect the Van Allen radiation belt, returning data until its batteries were exhausted after nearly four months. It remained in orbit until 1970, and has been followed by more than 90 scientific spacecraft in the Explorer series.\n\nExplorer 1 was given Satellite Catalog Number 4, and the Harvard designation 1958 Alpha 1, the forerunner to the modern International Designator.\n\nThe U.S. Earth satellite program began in 1954 as a joint U.S. Army and U.S. Navy proposal, called Project Orbiter, to put a scientific satellite into orbit during the International Geophysical Year. The proposal, using a military Redstone missile, was rejected in 1955 by the Eisenhower administration in favor of the Navy's Project Vanguard, using a booster advertised as more civilian in nature. Following the launch of the Soviet satellite Sputnik 1 on October 4, 1957, the initial Project Orbiter program was revived as the Explorer program to catch up with the Soviet Union.\n\nExplorer 1 was designed and built by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), while a Jupiter-C rocket was modified by the Army Ballistic Missile Agency (ABMA) to accommodate a satellite payload; the resulting rocket known as the Juno I. The Jupiter-C design used for the launch had already been flight-tested in nose cone reentry tests for the Jupiter IRBM, and was modified into Juno I. Working closely together, ABMA and JPL completed the job of modifying the Jupiter-C and building Explorer 1 in 84 days. However, before work was completed, the Soviet Union launched a second satellite, Sputnik 2, on November 3, 1957. The U.S. Navy's attempt to put the first U.S. satellite into orbit failed with the launch of the Vanguard TV3 on December 6, 1957.\n\nExplorer 1 was designed and built by the California Institute of Technology's JPL under the direction of Dr. William H. Pickering. It was the second satellite to carry a mission payload (Sputnik 2 was the first).\n\nThe total mass of the satellite was 13.37 kilograms (30.80 lb), of which 8.3 kg (18.3 lb) were instrumentation. In comparison, the mass of the first Soviet satellite Sputnik 1 was 83.6 kg (184 lb). The instrument section at the front end of the satellite and the empty scaled-down fourth-stage rocket casing orbited as a single unit, spinning around its long axis at 750 revolutions per minute.\n\nData from the scientific instruments was transmitted to the ground by two antennas. A 60 milliwatt transmitter fed a dipole antenna consisting of two fiberglass slot antennas in the body of the satellite operating on 108.03 MHz, and four flexible whips forming a turnstile antenna were fed by a 10 milliwatt transmitter operating on 108.00 MHz.\n\nBecause of the limited space available and the requirements for low weight, the payload instrumentation was designed and built with simplicity and high reliability in mind, using germanium and silicon transistors in its electronics. A total of 29 transistors were used in Explorer 1, plus additional ones in the Army's micrometeorite amplifier. Electrical power was provided by mercury chemical batteries that made up approximately 40 percent of the payload weight.\n\nThe external skin of the instrument section was sandblasted stainless steel with white stripes. Several other color schemes had been tested, resulting in backup articles, models, and photographs showing different configurations, including alternate white and green striping and blue stripes alternating with copper. The final coloration was determined by studies of shadow–sunlight intervals based on firing time, trajectory, orbit, and inclination.\n\nThe Explorer 1 payload consisted of the Iowa Cosmic Ray Instrument without a tape data recorder which was not modified in time to make it onto the spacecraft. The real-time data received on the ground was therefore very sparse and puzzling showing normal counting rates and no counts at all. The later Explorer 3 mission, which included a tape data recorder in the payload, provided the additional data for confirmation of the earlier Explorer 1 data.\n\nThe scientific instrumentation of Explorer 1 was designed and built under the direction of Dr. James Van Allen of the University of Iowa containing:\n\n\nAfter a jet stream-related delay on 28 January 1958, at 10:48:16 PM Eastern Time on 31 January the Juno I rocket was launched, putting Explorer 1 into orbit with a perigee of and an apogee of having a period of 114.8 minutes. Goldstone Tracking Station could not report after 90 minutes as planned whether the launch had succeeded because the orbit was larger than expected. At about 1:30 a.m. ET, after confirming that Explorer 1 was indeed in orbit, a news conference was held in the Great Hall at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington, DC to announce it to the world.\n\nThe original expected lifetime of the satellite before orbital decay was three years. Mercury batteries powered the high-power transmitter for 31 days and the low-power transmitter for 105 days. Explorer 1 stopped transmission of data on May 23, 1958 when its batteries died, but remained in orbit for more than 12 years. It reentered the atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean on March 31, 1970 after more than 58,000 orbits.\n\nExplorer 1 changed rotation axis after launch. The elongated body of the spacecraft had been designed to spin about its long (least-inertia) axis but refused to do so, and instead started precessing due to energy dissipation from flexible structural elements. Later it was understood that on general grounds, the body ends up in the spin state that minimizes the kinetic rotational energy for a fixed angular momentum (this being the maximal-inertia axis). This motivated the first further development of the Eulerian theory of rigid body dynamics after nearly 200 yearsto address this kind of momentum-preserving energy dissipation.\n\nSometimes the instrumentation reported the expected cosmic ray count (approximately 30 counts per second) but other times it would show a peculiar zero counts per second. The University of Iowa (under James Van Allen) observed that all of the zero counts per second reports were from an altitude of more than over South America, while passes at would show the expected level of cosmic rays. Later, after Explorer 3, it was concluded that the original Geiger counter had been overwhelmed (\"saturated\") by strong radiation coming from a belt of charged particles trapped in space by the Earth's magnetic field. This belt of charged particles is now known as the Van Allen radiation belt. The discovery was considered to be one of the outstanding discoveries of the International Geophysical Year.\n\nThe acoustic micrometeorite detector detected 145 impacts of cosmic dust in 78,750 seconds. This calculates to an average impact rate of 8.0 impacts m s over the twelve-day period (29 impacts per hour per square meter).\n\nExplorer 1 was the first of the long-running Explorer program. A follow-up to the first mission, Explorer-1 [PRIME], was successfully launched aboard a Delta II rocket in late October, 2011. The PRIME was built using modern satellite construction techniques. The orbiting satellite was a backup, since the initial Explorer-1 PRIME, launched on March 4, 2011, failed to reach orbit due to a problem in the launch vehicle.\n\nAn identically constructed flight backup of Explorer 1 is on display in the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum, Milestones of Flight Gallery in Washington, DC.\n\nLaunch Pad 26 was deactivated in 1963, and was designated for use as a museum in 1964, the Air Force Space and Missile Museum. Here too, a full-scale Explorer 1 is on display, but this one is a mockup. \n\nExplorer 1 was the first orbital object to return scientific data. Its launch happened 100 years to the day after the SS Great Eastern was launched. The ship was larger than any that came before it, and accomplished laying the first lasting transatlantic telegraph cable. Both events served to more closely knit the world together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27089301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27089301", "title": "FLISOL", "text": "FLISOL\n\nFLISoL, an acronym for Festival Latinoamericano de Instalación de Software Libre (Latin American free software install fest), is the biggest event for spreading \"Software Libre\" since 2005, performed simultaneously in different countries of Latin America. In 2012, more than 290 cities from 20 countries of Latin America participated on a FLISoL.\n\nThis festival is an opportunity for all those people interested on know more about Software Libre. Getting involved makes it possible to get in touch with the world of Software Libre, meet other users, resolve doubts and questions, exchange opinions and experiences, attend to informative talks and others activities.\n\nIntroduce Software Libre by its most known representative: Linux; or by installing Software Libre like LibreOffice, GIMP, Firefox and many more. During the event, operating systems or other free alternatives are installed for free to people who want to on their computers.\n\nAlso talks are given along with papers and workshops about local, national and Latin American topics related to \"Software Libre\" and its movement.\n\nIs important to know, that the objective itself is to create a link and promote migration between the users (newbies and advanced) and \"Software Libre\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21008804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21008804", "title": "Fifteen (song)", "text": "Fifteen (song)\n\n\"Fifteen\" is a country pop song performed by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift. Swift self-penned the song and co-produced it along with Nathan Chapman. \"Fifteen\" was released on August 30, 2009 by Big Machine Records, as the fourth single from Swift's second studio album, \"Fearless\" (2008). The song was inspired by Swift's freshman year of high school at Hendersonville High School, where she first encountered heartbreak, along with her best friend Abigail Anderson. After writing it, Swift asked Anderson for authorization to record the song (due to personal references in the song); Anderson affirmed and it was ultimately included on \"Fearless\". \"Fifteen\" is a ballad, which has Swift reminiscing on events that occurred to her and her best friend at the age of 15 and cautioning teenagers to not fall in love easily.\n\n\"Fifteen\" peaked at number 23 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and sold over 1.5 million digital downloads in the United States. The music video for \"Fifteen\" was directed by Roman White. It was filmed using a green screen and is heavily accentuated with special effects. The video features Swift walking through a garden, where she relives many memories with Anderson. It received a nomination for the Best Female Video category at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, but lost to Lady Gaga's \"Bad Romance\". \"Fifteen\" was promoted with live performances, including many that were part of Swift's first and second headlining tours, the Fearless Tour (2009—10) and the Speak Now World Tour (2011–12). Swift partnered with electronics retailer Best Buy for @15, a program that allowed teens to help decide how funds would be distributed among various charities.\n\nSwift began writing \"Fifteen\" with the lyric \"And Abigail gave everything she had to a boy/ Who changed his mind/ We both cried\", which eventually became the song's bridge, and continued writing everything else in a backwards manner. The song was written about Swift's freshman year of high school at Hendersonville High School, where she met her best friend Abigail Anderson. \"I just decided I really wanted to tell that story about our first year of high school because I felt in my freshman year, I grew up more than any year in my life so far\", Swift stated. The events it focused on were how both Swift and Anderson fell in love for the first time, but both suffered of heartbreaks. Aside from reminiscing on the events she and Anderson experienced, Swift wrote cautionary lyrics, intended to target teenage girls entering or already in their freshman year of high school. She described it as incorporating things she wished someone would have told her in a song when she was younger. \"The thing about high school, you don't know anything. You don't know anything, but you think you know everything\", Swift said.\n\nAfter the completion of composing \"Fifteen\", Swift became very nervous to show Anderson the song, for she did not know how her friend would respond. \"It was a really personal song, especially from her angle of it.\" However, when Swift performed the song for Anderson and asked whether she was comfortable with the song, Anderson confirmed: \"She said, 'Does it bother you that your name is in a song that's so personal?' And it really doesn't just because of the way Taylor and I feel about it. If one girl can kind of learn from it or connect to a song like that, it's totally worth it.\" With Anderson's consent, Swift recorded \"Fifteen\" with producer Nathan Chapman, who produced all but one track on Swift's 2006 eponymous debut album, \"Taylor Swift\". Recording the highly personal track caused Swift to cry. Swift attributed the event to the fact that she is most likely to cry over when her loved ones undergo pain, as she witnesses it, rather than her own experiences. She went to say \"Fifteen\" usually gets her every time.\n\n\"Fifteen\" is a country pop song with a length of four minutes and 55 seconds. It is set in common time and has a moderate tempo of 96 beats per minute. The track is categorized as a ballad. It is written in the key of G major and Swift's vocals spans a little over two octaves, from G to C. It follows the chord progression Gsus–Csus–Em–Csus. It concludes with an outro that consists of Swift singing \"la la la\" and rephrasing the song's opening lines.\n\nThe lyrics of \"Fifteen\" have Swift narrating about multiple events. In the first verse, Swift details first entering high school with intentions of merely staying out of her peers' way. The second verse bears Swift meeting Anderson and gossiping about the school's queen bees with her. Successively, Swift describes first dates and falling in love for the first time. However, Swift and Anderson become heartbroken, revealing that Anderson \"gave everything she had\" to someone who later changed his mind. The song's refrains have Swift cautioning young girls to not fall in love easily and acknowledging that she came to the realization of being able to accomplish more than dating a football team member.\n\nJody Rosen of \"Rolling Stone\" believed \"Fifteen\" was exemplary in that \"Swift is a songwriting savant with an intuitive gift for verse-chorus-bridge architecture\". Rosen compared her songwriting in the track to that of producers Dr. Luke and Max Martin, who he referred to as \"Swedish pop gods\". He continued, \"Her music mixes an almost impersonal professionalism — it's so rigorously crafted it sounds like it has been scientifically engineered in a hit factory — with confessions that are squirmingly intimate and true.\" Jonathon Keefe of Slant Magazine considered the bridge one of the nicer moments of \"Fearless\", but was unimpressed with Swift's singing, particularly in the outro. Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic found \"Fifteen\", in which Swift portrayed the role of a big sister instead of a big star, to be one of the best and the most personal song on \"Fearless\". Ken Tucker of \"Billboard\" magazine believed \"Fifteen\" could appeal with teenagers looking for hope and adult women reminiscing the past. Leah Greenbelt of \"Entertainment Weekly\" stated, \"When she sings about sexuality, she sounds like a real teen, not some manufactured vixen-Lolita\".\n\nJon Caramanica of \"The New York Times\" said \"Fifteen\" was one of Swift's best-written songs. James Reed of \"The Boston Globe\" believed \"Fifteen\" was one of \"Fearless\"s most interesting songs and stated he could visualize the lyrics of the song scribbled in a diary that chronicled Swift's freshman year in high school. Sean Dooley of About.com named it the best track on \"Fearless\" and said it showcased Swift's growth as a songwriter. Josh Love of \"The Village Voice\" called the song a \"standout\" on the album and found it a refreshing contradiction to typical, idealistic country songs. Prior to its single release, Kate Kiefer of \"Paste\" magazine suggested for the song be released as a single from \"Fearless\", adding that she loved it. Alexis Petridis of \"The Guardian\" called the track a fantastically good song that broadened \"her potential market from teenage girls to anyone who used to be a teenage girl\". Petridis continued, \"You applaud her skill, while feeling slightly unsettled by the thought of a teenager pontificating away like Yoda.\" Aidan Vaziri of \"San Francisco Chronicle\" ranked it twelfth on his top 12 singles of 2009 list, commenting, \"Damn it if this song isn't too sweet, too vulnerable and just too real to ignore.\"\n\nFollowing the release of \"Fearless\", on the week ending November 29, 2008, \"Fifteen\" debuted at number seventy-nine on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Its appearance, along with six other songs, on the chart tied Swift with Hannah Montana (Miley Cyrus) for the female act to have the most songs charting on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the same week, a record later surpassed by Swift herself when she charted eleven songs at once in 2010. It re-entered at number ninety-four on the week ending October 3, 2009, after its single release. On the week ending December 19, 2009, \"Fifteen\" reached its peak at number twenty-three on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and, on the week ending February 6, 2010, spent its last week at number forty, after twenty-one weeks on the chart. The song is one of thirteen songs from \"Fearless\" charted within the top forty of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, breaking the record for the most top forty entries from a single album. The single was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. As of November 2017, \"Fifteen\" has sold over 1.5 million copies in the United States. \n\n\"Fifteen\" debuted at number forty-one on \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs. It jumped at number thirty-one on its second week and on the week-ending November 7, 2009, it entered the top ten at number ten. Six weeks later, it reached its peak at number seven on the week-ending December 12, 2009. The single became her second single that did not reach the top three of \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs since her debut single \"Tim McGraw\". \"Fifteen\" also peak at number ten on \"Billboard\" Pop Songs, number twelve on \"Billboard\" Adult Contemporary, and at number fourteen at \"Billboard\" Adult Pop Songs.\n\nOn the week ending January 23, 2010, the song peaked at number nineteen in Canada. It was certified gold by Music Canada for sales of 40,000 digital downloads. \"Fifteen\" peaked at number forty-eight in Australia on the week ending December 13, 2009.\n\nThe music video for \"Fifteen\" was directed by Roman White, who previously directed Swift's music video \"You Belong with Me\". White began with the intention of creating a video different than others Swift did in the past. To do so, he believed he needed to set the video outside of high school. White explained, \"Well, I think I really wanted this video to kind of be an evolution for Taylor [...] I actually said to her, 'I don't think we should shoot in a high school.' And I don't think she wanted to either.\" White conceptualized the video's setting by taking into account the literal meaning of the song and transforming into something new. He conceptualized the setting to be a new world where Swift could revisit her memories, as they manifest around her. \"Let's take the literal meaning of this song and watch it evolve in front of us ... almost as a memory in your head. And create this world, somewhere you walk in on this desolate desert and you start to sing about all these great memories you have... of everything you love blooming around you, and so we literally grew this garden around her\", White said. The world moved from one situation to the next. White decided to annex surreal elements to create a cross between a garden and the heart of the memories. He intertwined Swift's emotions with the growth of the garden. The garden grew when Swift felt happy, but at the sight of pain and negative emotions, clouds appear and the garden dies, which also symbolized Swift's best friend Abigail Anderson's broken heart.\nSwift's friend, Anderson, portrayed herself in the video. The love interests of both Swift and Anderson were cast by Swift after she received images of them via e-mail. The video was filmed in two days. The first day consisted of actors, including Swift and Anderson, filming before a green screen. On the set, White presented Swift with caricature drawings depicting the music video, in order to guide herself. Swift was impressed by Anderson's acting skills, considering her lack of experience, and called it \"prolific\". On the second day, scenes at a high school were filmed; artificial rain was made. Afterward, White and a team of visual effect artists created the setting. \"If you watch just the offline edit of this video, it's just green. It's just Taylor walking around a giant green screen. And to think that every single thing in that video was created is amazing, 'cause a lot of people worked really hard on it\", White said. The visual effects team were at work for the video for some time, sometimes staying overnight in the office to produce the video. The direction was to make the video seem \"magical\". Some of the props used when filming were recreated using digital animation, such as the door and the desks. Because extras were filmed separately, White was meticulous to find the right shots to make the scene more cohesive. White believed the finished product had a sense of innocence.\n\nThe video begins with Swift, barefoot and clad in a white sundress, approaching a tall, arched doorway which materializes in the middle of a barren landscape. Swift looks at a photograph of herself and her friend tucked into the arch and, then, passes through the doors. On the other side of the arch, animated flowers and vines grow across the scenes. People and objects from a high school fade in and out of view. Swift walks through the memories and begins to play an acoustic guitar beneath a tree. Afterward, Anderson appears, sitting at a desk before a chalkboard in the field of flowers. Swift sits down beside her and the two begin to whisper and laugh to each other. In the next scene, Swift plays a namesake Taylor brand guitar while Anderson goes on her first date; she kisses her date, but pushes him away when he tries to go further. Her love interest and all surroundings dissolve to show Anderson sitting alone on a stone bench. Swift approaches her and hugs her tightly as the field around them turns dark and stormy. The video then alternates between Swift singing in the rain and hugging her friend. After the landscape deteriorates, the video transitions to reality, where Swift, wearing a black trench coat, stands in the rain, across the street from a high school. Swift then sees a student at the entrance; the two make eye contact and the video concludes. To date, the video has over 140 million views on YouTube.\n\nThe music video premiered on October 9, 2009 on CMT. Peter Gicas of E! thought the video was \"sweet\" and said, \"And while the visuals here—Taylor walking in and out of various animated scenes—are certainly nice to look at, they nevertheless take a back seat to the country star's cuteness.\" Leah Greenblatt of \"Entertainment Weekly\" graded the video a B. Greenblatt believed the video was reverential and painterly, but criticized it by saying \"Fifteen\"'s most powerful lyrics were outdone by the dreamy design. Jocelyn Vena of MTV wrote, \"Taylor Swift is 'Fifteen' all over again in the new music video for her song of the same name.\" At the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, the video was nominated for the MTV Video Music Award for Best Female Video, but lost to Lady Gaga's video for \"Bad Romance\" (2009).\n\n"}
{"id": "53013644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53013644", "title": "Finke Opera House", "text": "Finke Opera House\n\nFinke Opera House, also known as the Ritz Theatre, is a historic opera house located at California, Moniteau County, Missouri. It was built in 1885, and is a two-story, eclectic Late Victorian style brick building. The building features decorative brickwork banding and segmental window arches with stone accents. It was built as a multi-use facility and now used as a community theater / meeting hall.\n\nIt was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "44417623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44417623", "title": "Francisco Nicolás Gómez Iglesias", "text": "Francisco Nicolás Gómez Iglesias\n\nFrancisco Nicolás Gómez Iglesias (Madrid, April 18, 1994) nicknamed by Spanish press as \"El pequeño Nicolás\" (Little Nicholas) is a Spanish student of Law famous for being arrested in October 2014 on charges of forgery, fraud and identity theft. Apparently, the young man infiltrated in the highest levels of Spanish political and economic power, going as far as to impersonate a member of the CNI (the Spanish intelligence agency) or being a guest in the crowning of Felipe VI. Furthermore, he has become an icon of memes.\n\nFrancisco Nicolás has lived with his grandmother since he was 14.\n\nFrancisco Nicolás allegedly led a double life. While studying law at university he claimed to be an important person with political and business contacts, a claim that he used to take advantage of certain entities and individuals. Allegedly, he defrauded dozens of people, to whom he promised sizable business opportunities, thanks to his alleged contacts at the highest positions of the Spanish Administration, Spanish government and even the CNI. He leased luxury cars to reinforce his fabricated stories and one of them was found with a blue light similar to that employed by undercover units of the security forces in emergencies and thus skipping red lights and avoiding jams. He even hired personal bodyguards to give credibility to his identities.\n\nCurrently under investigation is the possible economic and social protection of \"El pequeño Nicolás\" by a major figure in the Spanish elite, since different sources conclude that it would have been the only way to move up and infiltrate the power elites of this country that easily.\n\nOn Tuesday October 14, 2014 he was arrested by the National Police on charges of forgery, fraud and identity theft. On October 17, the judge in the case agreed to release him on bail without bond.\n\nIn November 2014, Francisco Nicolás gave interviews to Telecinco and El Mundo in which he claimed to have worked for the Spanish secret service Centro Nacional de Inteligencia (CNI), the Spanish Royal family and the vice presidency of the Spanish government. He also claimed to have been President of the youth organisation of the local group of the Spanish leading party Partido Popular (People's Party) in Moncloa-Aravaca.\n\nOn 13 February 2015 he was arrested after not paying his share of a restaurant bill.\n\nOn 7 January 2016 he became a contestant and participated in the Spanish version of reality show Celebrity Big Brother: \"Gran Hermano VIP\".\n"}
{"id": "13354987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13354987", "title": "French Formula Three Championship", "text": "French Formula Three Championship\n\nThe French Formula Three Championship was a motor racing series for Formula Three cars held in France between 1964 and 2002. The series merged with the German Formula Three Championship in 2003 to form the Formula 3 Euro Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "57769814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769814", "title": "Hysiae (Argolis)", "text": "Hysiae (Argolis)\n\nHysiae or Hysiai (), also Hysia (Ὑσία), was a garrison town of ancient Argolis, also called the Argeia, southern Greece during the archaic period. It was located to the southwest of Argos and east of Tegea, on the road between them, at the foot of Mount Parthenium, not far from the Argive border with Laconia. In , the First Battle of Hysiae was fought between the Spartans and the Argives, who won to repulse a Spartan invasion of Argolis. It appears to have been destroyed by the Argives, along with Tiryns, Mycenae, and the other towns in the Argeia, after the Greco-Persian Wars; but it was afterwards restored, and was occupied by the Argives in the Peloponnesian War as a frontier-fortress. During the Peloponnesian War, in 417 BCE, the Second Battle of Hysiae was fought, again between the Spartans and the Argives, and resulted in a decisive Spartan victory. The Spartans captured Hysiae and destroyed it; all captured male citizens were executed.\n\nIts site is located near modern Akhladokampos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1915235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915235", "title": "Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir", "text": "Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir\n\nThe insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir or the Kashmiri Insurgency (also known as Kashmir Intifada) is a conflict between various Kashmiri separatists and the Government of India. There are some groups that support the complete independence of Kashmir, while others seek Kashmir's accession to Pakistan. The conflict in Jammu and Kashmir has strong Islamist elements among the insurgents, with many of the \"ultras\" identifying with Jihadist movements and supported by such.\n\nThe roots of the conflict between the Kashmiri insurgents and the Indian government are tied to a dispute over local autonomy. Democratic development was limited in Kashmir until the late 1970s and by 1988 many of the democratic reforms provided by the Indian government had been reversed and non-violent channels for expressing discontent were limited and caused a dramatic increase in support for insurgents advocating violent secession from India. In 1987, a disputed State election created a catalyst for the insurgency when it resulted in some of the state's legislative assembly members forming armed insurgent groups. In July 1988, a series of demonstrations, strikes and attacks on the Indian government began the Kashmir Insurgency, which during the 1990s escalated into the most important internal security issue in India.\n\nThousands of people have died during fighting between insurgents and the government as well as thousands of civilians who have died as a result of being targeted by the various armed groups.\n\nThe Inter-Services Intelligence of Pakistan has been accused by India of supporting and training mujahideen. to fight in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2015, former President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf admitted that Pakistan had supported and trained insurgent groups in the 1990s.\nAccording to official figures released in Jammu and Kashmir assembly, there were 3,400 disappearance cases and the conflict has left more than 47,000 people dead which also includes 7,000 police personnel as of July 2009.\n\nHowever, the number of insurgency-related deaths in the state have fallen sharply since the start of a slow-moving peace process between India and Pakistan. Some rights groups claim a higher figure of 100,000 deaths since 1989.\n\nAfter independence from colonial rule India and Pakistan fought a war over the princely state of Kashmir. At the end of the war India controlled the most valuable parts of Kashmir. While there were sporadic periods of violence there was no organised insurgency movement.\n\nDuring this period legislative elections in Jammu and Kashmir were first held in 1951 and Sheikh Abdullah’s secular party stood unopposed. He was an instrumental member in the accession of the state to India.\n\nHowever Sheikh Abdullah would fall in and out of favour with the central government and would often be dismissed only to be re-appointed later on. This was a time of political instability & power struggle in Jammu and Kashmir and it went through several periods of President's rule by the Federal Government.\n\nAfter Sheikh Abdullah’s death, his son Farooq Abdullah took over as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. Farooq Abdullah eventually fell out of favour with the Central Government and the Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi had him dismissed. A year later, Abdullah announced an alliance with the ruling Congress party for the elections of 1987. The elections were allegedly rigged in favour of Abdullah.\n\nThis led to the rise of an armed insurgency movement composed, in part, of those who unfairly lost elections. Pakistan supplied these groups with logistical support, arms, recruits and training.\n\nIn the second half of 1989 the alleged assassinations of the Indian spies and political collaborators by JKLF (Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front) was intensified. Over six months more than a hundred officials were killed to paralyse government’s administrative and intelligence apparatus. The daughter of then interior affairs minister, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed was kidnapped in December and four terrorists had to be released for her release. This event led to mass celebrations all over the valley. Farooq Abdullah resigned in January after the appointment of Jagmohan Malhotra as the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. Subsequently, J&K was placed under Governor's Rule under Article 92 of state constitution.\n\nUnder JKLF’s leadership on January 21–23 large scale protests were organised in valley. As a response to this largely explosive situation paramilitary units of BSF and CRPF were called. These units were used by the government to combat Maoist insurgency and the North-Eastern insurgency. The challenge to them in this situation was not posed by armed insurgents but by the stone pelters. Their inexperience caused at least 50 casualties in Gawkadal massacre. In this incident the underground militant movement was transformed into a mass struggle. To curb the situation AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) was imposed on Kashmir in September 1990 to suppress the insurgency by giving armed forces the powers to kill and arrest without warrant to maintain public order. During this time the dominant tactic involved killing of a prominent figure in a public gathering to push forces into action and the public prevented them from capturing these insurgents. This sprouting of sympathisers in Kashmir led to the hard-line approach of Indian army.\n\nWith JKLF at forefront large number of militant groups like Allah Tigers, People’s League and Hizb-i-Islamia sprung up. Weapons were smuggled on a large scale from Pakistan. In Kashmir JKLF operated under the leadership of Ashfaq Majid Wani, Yasin Bhat, Hamid Shiekh and Javed Mir. To counter this growing pro-Pakistani sentiment in Kashmir, Indian media associated it exclusively with Pakistan.\n\nJKLF used distinctly Islamic themes to mobilise crowds and justify their use of violence. They sought to establish an Islamic democratic state where the rights of minorities would be protected according to Quran and Sunna and economy would be organised on the principles of Islamic socialism.\n\nThe Indian army has conducted various operations to control and eliminate insurgency in the region such as Operation Sarp Vinash, in which a multi-battalion offensive was launched against terrorists from groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami, al-Badr and Jaish-e-Mohammad who had been constructing shelters in the Pir Panjal region of Jammu and Kashmir over several years. The subsequent operations led to the death of over 60 terrorists and uncovered the largest network of militant hideouts in the history of insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir covering 100 square kilometers.\n\nBeginning in 2004 Pakistan began to end its support for insurgents in Kashmir. This happened because terrorist groups linked to Kashmir twice tried to assassinate Pakistani President General Pervez Musharraf. His successor, Asif Ali Zardari has continued the policy, calling insurgents in Kashmir \"terrorists\". Although it is unclear if Pakistan's intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence, thought to be the agency aiding and controlling the insurgency is following Pakistan's commitment to end support for the insurgency in Kashmir.\n\nDespite the change in the nature of the insurgency from a phenomenon supported by external forces to a primarily domestic-driven movement the Indian government has continued to send large numbers of troops to the Indian border.\n\nThere have been widespread protests against the Indian army presence in Kashmir.\n\nOnce the most formidable face of Kashmir militancy, Hizbul Mujahideen is slowly fading away as its remaining commanders and cadres are being taken out on a regular interval by security forces.\nSome minor incidents of grenade throwing and sniper firing at security forces notwithstanding, the situation is under control and more or less peaceful. A record number of tourists including Amarnath pilgrims visited Kashmir during 2012. On 3 August 2012, a top Lashkar-e-Taiba militant commander, Abu Hanzulah involved in various attacks on civilians and security forces was killed in an encounter with security forces in a village in Kupwara district of north Kashmir.\n\nAccording to an Indian Army data – quoted by Reuters – at least 70 young Kashmiris joined the insurgency in the 2014, army records showed, with most joining the banned group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was accused of carrying out attacks on the Indian city of Mumbai in 2008. Two of the new recruits have doctorates and eight were post graduates, the army data showed. According to BBC, that despite a Pakistani ban on militant activity in Kashmir in 2006, its fighters continue to attempt infiltration into Indian-administered Kashmir. These attempts were curtailed however when people living along the Line of Control which divides Indian and Pakistani Kashmir started to hold public protests against their activities.\n\nFollowing the rise of Islamisation in the Kashmir valley, during the 1987 state elections, various Islamic anti-establishment groups including Jamaat-e-Islami Kashmir were organised under a single banner named Muslim United Front (MUF), that is largely current Hurriyat. MUF's election manifesto stressed the need for a solution to all outstanding issues according to Simla Agreement, work for Islamic unity and against political interference from the centre. Their slogan was wanting the law of the Quran in the Assembly. But the MUF won only four seats, even though it had polled 31% votes in the election. However, the elections were widely believed to be rigged, changing the course of politics in the state. The insurgency was sparked by the apparent rigging of state elections in 1987.\n\nThe Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence has allegedly encouraged and aided the Kashmir independence movement through an insurgency due to its dispute on the legitimacy of Indian rule in Kashmir, with the insurgency as an easy way to keep Indian troops distracted and cause international condemnation of India. \nFormer Pakistan President General Pervez Musharraf in Oct 2014 said during TV interview, \"We have source (in Kashmir) besides the (Pakistan) army…People in Kashmir are fighting against (India). We just need to incite them.\"\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), in their first ever open acknowledgement in 2011 in US Court, said that the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) sponsors terrorism in Kashmir and it oversees terrorist separatist groups in Kashmir.\n\nAfter the invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union, Mujahideen fighters, with the aid of Pakistan, slowly infiltrated Kashmir with the goal of spreading a radical Islamist ideology.\n\nJammu and Kashmir is the only Muslim majority state in Hindu-majority India. Indian-American journalist Asra Nomani states that while India itself is a secular state, Muslims are politically, culturally and economically marginalised when compared to Hindus in India as a whole. The government's decision to transfer 99 acres of forest land in near Amarnath in the Kashmir valley to a Hindu organisation (for setting up temporary shelters and facilities for Hindu pilgrims) solidified this feeling and led to one of the largest protest rallies in Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nAfter insurgency started in Kashmir valley because of above reasons in the late 1980s, Indian troops entered in Kashmir valley to control the insurgency. Some analysts have suggested that the number of Indian troops in Jammu and Kashmir is close to 600,000 although estimates vary and the Indian government refuses to release official figures. The troops have been accused and held accountable for several humanitarian abuses and have engaged in mass extrajudicial killings, torture, rape and sexual abuse.\n\nIndian security forces have been implicated in many reports for enforced disappearances of thousands of Kashmiris whereas the security forces deny having their information and/or custody. This is often in association with torture or extrajudicial killing. Human right activists estimate the number of disappeared to be over eight thousand, last seen in government detention. The disappeared are believed to be dumped in thousands of mass graves across Kashmir. A State Human Rights Commission inquiry in 2011, has confirmed there are thousands of bullet-ridden bodies buried in unmarked graves in Jammu and Kashmir. Of the 2730 bodies uncovered in 4 of the 14 districts, 574 bodies were identified as missing locals in contrast to the Indian governments insistence that all the graves belong to foreign militants.\n\nMilitary forces in Jammu and Kashmir operate under impunity and emergency powers granted to them by the central government. These powers allow the military to curtail civil liberties, creating further support for the insurgency.\n\nThe insurgents have also abused human rights, engaging in what some have called an ethnic cleansing by exterminating Kashmiri Pandits from the valley of Kashmir. The government's inability to protect the people from both its own troops and the insurgency has further eroded support for the government.\n\nAmnesty International accused security forces of exploiting the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) that enables them to \"hold prisoners without trial\". The group argues that the law, which allows security to detain individuals for as many as two years \"without presenting charges, violating prisoners’ human rights\". The Army sources maintain that \"any move to revoke AFSPA in Jammu and Kashmir would be detrimental to the security of the Valley and would provide a boost to the terrorists.\"\n\nFormer Indian Army Chief General V. K. Singh rejected the accusations that the action was not taken in the cases of human rights violations by Army personnel. On 24 October 2010, he has said that 104 Army personnel had been punished in Jammu and Kashmir in this regard, including 39 officers. He also said that 95% of the allegations of human rights abuses against Indian Army were proved to be false, of which he remarked, had apparently been made with the \"ulterior motive of maligning the armed forces\". However, according to Human Rights Watch, the military courts in India, in general, were proved to be incompetent to deal with cases of serious human rights abuses and were responsible in covering up evidence and protecting the involved officers. Amnesty International in its report in 2015, titled \"“Denied”-Failures in Accountability in Jammu and Kashmir\", says, \"...with respect to investigations, an inquiry that is conducted by the same authority accused of the crime raises serious questions about the independence and impartiality of those proceedings”, adding that according to the international law, an independent authority that is not involved in the alleged violations has to investigate such crimes.\n\nThese human rights violations are said to have contributed to the rise of resistance in Kashmir.\n\nPsychologist Waheeda Khan, explaining the rebellious nature of the Kashmiris, says that because of the tense situations in the valley from the 1990s, the generation gap between parents and young generations has increased. Young generations tend to blame their parents for failing to do anything about the political situation. So they start experimenting with their own aggressive ways to show their curbed feelings and would go against any authority. A prominent psychiatrist of the valley, Margoob, described that children/teenagers are much more vulnerable to passionate actions and reactions, since the young minds are yet to completely develop psychological mechanisms. When they assume that they are \"pushed against the wall\", they get controlled by the emotions without bothering about the consequences. Also young people easily identify themselves with the \"group\" rather than with their individual identities. It leads to psychological distress which causes antisocial behaviour and aggressive attitude. Often, this situation gets worsened by the availability of weapons and people becoming familiar to violence after having exposed to conflict for so long. Waheeda Khan remarks, the major concern is that generations of children who are experiencing long-term violence in their lives, may reach adulthood perceiving that violence is a fair means of solving ethinic, religious, or political differences.\n\nHigh unemployment and lack of economic opportunities in Kashmir are also said to have intensified the struggle.\n\nSince the 2008 protests and 2010 unrest, the turmoil has taken a new dimension when people, particularly youngsters of the Kashmir valley have started pelting stones on security forces to express their aggression and protest for the loss of freedom. In turn they get attacked by the armed personnel with pellets, rubber bullets, sling shots and tear gas shells. This leads to eye-injuries and several other kind of injuries to many people. Security forces also face injuries, and sometimes get beaten up during these events. According to Waheeda Khan, most of the 'stone-pelters' are school and college going students. Large number of these people get arrested during these events for allegedly resorting to stone pelting, after which some of them are also tortured. According to political activist Mannan Bukhari, Kashmiris made stone, an easily accessible and defenseless weapon, their weapon of choice for protest.\n\nKashmiri senior journalist Parvaiz Bukhari remarked:The summer of 2010 witnessed a convulsion in the world’s most militarized zone, the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir, an unprecedented and deadly civil unrest that is beginning to change a few things on the ground. [...] Little known and relatively anonymous resistance activists emerged, organizing an unarmed agitation more fierce than the armed rebellion against Indian rule two decades earlier. And apparently aware of the post 9/11 world, young Kashmiris, children of the conflict, made stones and rocks a weapon of choice against government armed forces, side-stepping the tag of a terrorist movement linked with Pakistan. The unrest represents a conscious transition to an unarmed mass movement, one that poses a moral challenge to New Delhi’s military domination over the region.\n\n\"Further information: Human rights abuses by insurgents and Rape by militants\"\n\nIslamic separatist militants are accused of violence against the Kashmir populace. They continue serious human rights violations: summary executions, rape, and torture. In the effort to curb support for pro-independence militants, Indian security forces have resorted to arbitrary arrest and collective punishments of entire neighbourhoods, tactics which have only led to further disaffection from India. The militants have kidnapped and killed civil servants and suspected informers. \"Human Rights Watch\" alleged that thousands of civilian Kashmiri Hindus have been killed over the past 10 years by Islamic militants organisations or Muslim mobs. The militants committed war rape during the 1980s. Tens of thousands of Kashmiri Pandits have emigrated as a result of the violence. Estimates of the displaced varies from 170,000 to 700,000. Thousands of Kasmiri Pandits had to move to Jammu because of militancy.\n\n\nOver time the Indian government has increasingly relied on military presence to control the insurgency. The military has committed human rights violations. The government would often dissolve assemblies, arrest elected politicians and impose president's rule. The government also rigged elections in 1987. In recent times there have been signs that the government is taking local elections more seriously. The government has also funneled development aid to Kashmir and Kashmir has now become the biggest per capita receiver of Federal aid.\n\nThe Pakistani central government originally supported, trained and armed the insurgency in Kashmir, sometimes known as \"ultras\" (extremists), however after groups linked to the Kashmiri insurgency twice attempted to assassinate president Pervez Musharraf, Musharraf decided to end support for such groups. His successor, Asif Ali Zardari has continued the policy, calling insurgents in Kashmir \"terrorists\".\n\nBut the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence hasn't followed the lead of the government and has continued its support for insurgent groups in Kashmir although Pakistani support for the insurgency has certainly waned.\n\nSince around 2000 the 'insurgency' has become far less violent and has instead taken on the form of protests and marches. Certain groups have also chosen to lay down their arms and look for a peaceful resolution to the conflict.\n\nThe different insurgent groups have different aims in Kashmir. Some want complete independence from both India and Pakistan, others want unification with Pakistan and still others just want greater autonomy from the Indian government.\n\nA 2010 survey found that 43% in J&K and 44% in AJK would favour complete independence from both India and Pakistan, with support for the independence movement unevenly distributed across the region.\n\nOver the last two years, the militant group, Lashkar-e-Toiba has split into two factions: \"Al Mansurin\" and \"Al Nasirin\". Another new group reported to have emerged is the \"Save Kashmir Movement\". Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (formerly known as Harkat-ul-Ansar) and Lashkar-e-Toiba are believed to be operating from Muzaffarabad, Azad Kashmir and Muridke, Pakistan respectively. \n\nOther less well known groups are the Freedom Force and Farzandan-e-Milat. A smaller group, Al-Badr, has been active in Kashmir for many years and is still believed to be functioning. All Parties Hurriyat Conference, an organisation that uses moderate means to press for the rights of the Kashmiris, is often considered as the \"mediator\" between New Delhi and insurgent groups. \n\nIt is unclear if Al Qaeda has a presence in Jammu and Kashmir. Donald Rumsfeld suggested that they were active and in 2002 the SAS hunted for Osama bin Laden in Jammu and Kashmir. Al Qaeda claims that it has established a base in Jammu and Kashmir. However, there has been no evidence for any of these assertions. The Indian army also claims that there is no evidence of Al Qaeda presence in Jammu and Kashmir. Al Qaeda has established bases in Pakistani administered Kashmir and some, including Robert Gates have suggested that they have helped to plan attacks in India.\n\nAccording to Sumantra Bose in his book, \"Kashmir: Roots of Conflict, Paths to Peace\", around 40000 (Indian estimates) to 80000 (Hurriyat estimates) civilians, separatist guerilla fighters and Indian security personnel died from the time period of 1989 to 2002 in both Kashmir Valley and Jammu . More than 4600 security personnel, 13500 civilians and 15937 militants including 3000 from outside Jammu and Kashmir (mostly Pakistanis and some Afghans) were killed in this fourteen-year period. Also in this period, 55,538 incidents of violence were recorded. Indian forces engaged in counter insurgency operations captured around 40,000 firearms, 150,000 explosive devices, and over 6 million rounds of assorted ammunition. Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society posits a figure of 70,000 deaths, most of them civilians killed by Indian forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "37396824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37396824", "title": "Isdal Woman", "text": "Isdal Woman\n\nThe Isdal Woman () is the name given to an unidentified woman who was found dead at Isdalen Valley in Bergen, Norway, on 29 November 1970. Considered one of Norway's most profound mysteries, the case has been the subject of intense speculation for many years.\n\nOn the afternoon of 29 November 1970, a man and his two daughters were hiking in the foothills of the north face of Mount Ulriken, in an area known as the Isdalen Valley. They found the partially-charred body of a woman, hidden among some rocks, in an area popularly known as \"Death Valley\". Also found (confirmed during the autopsy) were a dozen phenobarbital sleeping pills (brand name Fenemal); an empty bottle of St. Hallvard likør (at times labelled St. Hallvard liqueur); two partially charred plastic water-carrying bottles; an almost fully burned plastic container; remnants of rubber boots; a scarf and an umbrella; a watch with two earrings and a ring. Beneath the body was a fur hat which was later found to have contained a small trace of petrol.\n\nAn autopsy concluded the woman died from poisoning by Fenemal and carbon monoxide. Analysis of her blood showed that she had consumed at least 50 sleeping pills. Her face had been burned and was unrecognisable. Her neck was bruised, possibly by a blow. \n\nStable isotope analysis of her teeth in 2017 indicated that the woman had been born in about 1930 in or near Nuremberg, Germany, but had moved to France or the region of the France–Germany border as a child. This reinforced earlier analysis of her handwriting, which suggested that she had been educated in France or a neighbouring country.\nA DNA profile was obtained in 2016 from the woman's teeth, and this suggested ancestral ties to western Continental Europe. \n\nAnalysis of the woman's teeth also indicated she had been to a dentist in East Asia, Central Europe, Southern Europe or South America.\n\nPolice immediately launched a full-scale investigation. Composite sketches, based on witness descriptions and analysis of her body, were published in the Norwegian media and circulated in many countries via INTERPOL.\n\nThey found two suitcases belonging to the woman at an NSB railway station in Bergen. In the lining of one, police discovered 500 Deutsche Mark. Among other things, they found clothing (all identifying labels removed), a lotion prescription (doctor's name and date removed), 130 Norwegian kroner, spoons similar to the one found melted at the Isdalen Valley site, a pair of sunglasses carrying partial fingerprints and some diary entries. Police later concluded the entries were coded dates and places the woman had visited. An unusual dress was found as well; from that, police determined the woman had a somewhat provocative style, marked by Italian taste.\n\nAn Italian photographer's postcard was found in the woman's luggage. When police spoke with him, he said he had given a similar woman a lift to Hotel Alexandra in Loen. He said he also had dinner with her. The woman told him that she was from a small town north of Johannesburg, South Africa, and that she had six months to see Norway's most beautiful places. The police checked the woman the photographer named in South Africa - and she was not reported missing. Thus this line of inquiry went nowhere.\n\nPolice learned that the \"Isdal Woman\" had traveled around Norway and Europe with at least eight fake passports. While authorities eventually concluded that she had committed suicide, others believe that there is evidence that she was murdered. \n\nThe last time she was seen alive was when she left room 407 of the Hotel Hordaheimen on 23 November 1970. She paid cash and then got into a taxi. The hotel staff described her as between the ages of 30 and 40, a smoker, about tall, with wide hips, small eyes, and a pleasing figure. She mostly stayed in her room and seemed to be on guard.\n\nThe taxi driver who took her from the hotel to the station was never found. How she got to the isolated place where her body was discovered is also unknown. In 1991 a taxi driver wishing to remain anonymous said that after taking the unknown woman to the hotel, they were joined by another man before the station.\n\nMultiple investigations point to the possibility that she was a spy.\n\nDespite the significant police resources deployed, the unknown woman was never identified. Many questions remain unanswered, especially about the reasons for such an adventurous existence with so many different moves and identities.\n\nA theory involving fake check trafficking was proposed by a retired police officer, but quickly abandoned.\n\nThe most frequently cited theory is that of espionage in the Cold War context of the time. The possession of nine fake passports seems indeed to imply a very professional organization. The declassified records of the Norwegian National Defense bring disturbing coincidences: many of the stranger's movements seem to correspond to top secret trials of the Norwegian Penguin missile. A fisherman even said to have recognized the unknown woman while observing military movements in Stavanger. Yet the conclusion of the local police remains that of suicide by ingestion of sleeping pills. Given the doubts raised by this finding, the local police were also suspected of involvement in this case. Norway has also experienced other strange disappearances in the 1960s, close to military installations, which also evokes the track of international espionage.\n\nPeople who saw or met the woman said that she wore wigs (which was quite common practice in this period) and spoke Flemish, German and broken English. She had stayed at several hotels in Bergen, and repeatedly changed rooms after checking in. She told hotel staff that she was a travelling saleswoman and antiquities dealer. At several places, she left a standing order: porridge with milk.\n\nOne witness said that she overheard the woman talking to a man in a Bergen hotel. According to the witness, the woman said, in (\"I am coming soon\").\n\nThe last hotel the Isdal Woman stayed at was the Hotel Hordaheimen (room 407, November 19–23). Staff told police that she was good-looking and roughly tall, with dark brown hair and small brown eyes. According to dental examination in 2017, she is estimated to have been around 40 years of age at the time of her death. Another Hordaheimen guest told police that the Isdal Woman smoked South State cigarettes (a Norwegian brand). Staff noted that the woman kept mainly to her room and seemed to be on guard. When she checked out of the Hordaheimen on 23 November, the Isdal Woman paid her bill in cash and requested a taxi. Her whereabouts between then and 29 November (when her body was found) are unknown.\n\nOn the 5th of February 1971 the Isdal Woman was given a Catholic burial, in an unmarked grave, and in a zinc coffin to preserve her remains.\n\nIn 2002, Tore Osland, son of the leading investigator, wrote the book \"Isdalskvinnen, Operation Isptopsy.\" \n\nIn 2005, a Bergen resident who was 26 in 1970 told a local newspaper that after seeing the sketch circulated, he had suspected that the dead woman was the woman he had seen five days before the body was found, when he was hiking on the hillside at Fløyen. She was dressed lightly, for the city rather than a hike, and was with two men wearing coats who looked \"southern\". She seemed about to say something but they stopped her. He went to someone he knew at the police to report this, but was told to forget about it. Therefore neither his name nor his alleged sighting was recorded anywhere back then.\n\nIn 2016, NRK commissioned the American artist Stephen Missal to create six alternative sketches of the Isdal Woman, which were put before people who had seen her.\n\nIn 2018, NRK and the BBC published a podcast series titled \"Death in Ice Valley\", which included interviews with eyewitnesses and forensic scientists, whose findings were presented as suggesting that the Isdal Woman's birthplace may have been Southern Germany or the French-German border region, and that she was likely born in the 1930s or early 1940s. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23175847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23175847", "title": "JFK: A Musical Drama", "text": "JFK: A Musical Drama\n\nJFK: A Musical Drama is a musical with music by Will Holt, and book and lyrics by Will Holt and Tom Sawyer. Based loosely on the life of John F. Kennedy. It premiered at the Olympia Theatre, Dublin on April 24th, 1997 and New York City in 1998.\n\nThe production was directed and choreographed by Larry Fuller and produced by Stewart F. Lane. The role of JFK was played by Maurice Clarke. It also starred Gary Raymond, Brian DeSalvo, Monica Ernesti, Stella McCusker and Peter Vollebreght.\n\nThe musical was music directed by Aaron Hagan and orchestrated by Peter Matz. A cast album with some of the original 1993 Goodspeed Opera House at Chester cast including Rita Gardner, Michael Brian, Claudia Rose Golde, and William Zeffiro was recorded in 2007.\n\nUpon the early closure of the musical, Frank Kilfeather of the Irish Times quipped \"\"Can you remember where you where, the night they said \"JFK\" had been shut?\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52883965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52883965", "title": "Jazz at the Maltings", "text": "Jazz at the Maltings\n\nJazz at the Maltings was a weekly series on BBC2 which featured some of the world's top jazz artists in concert at the Snape Maltings.\n\nThe series, produced by Terry Henebury and directed by Vernon Lawrence was first aired in autumn 1968. It was introduced by jazz musician Benny Green.\n\n"}
{"id": "8461184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8461184", "title": "Juliusz Słowacki Theatre", "text": "Juliusz Słowacki Theatre\n\nJuliusz Słowacki Theatre in Kraków, Poland, (), erected in 1893, was modeled after some of the best European Baroque theatres such as the Paris Opera designed by Charles Garnier, and named after Polish poet Juliusz Słowacki in 1909.\n\nDesigned by Jan Zawiejski, the theatre was erected on Holy Ghost Square (\"Plac Św. Ducha\") in place of the former 14th century church and monastery of religious order 'Duchacy' or Order of the Holy Ghost (hence the name of the square). The church had been converted into a residential building due to secularization of the Polish male branch of the cloister in 1783. The city council of Kraków decided to demolish it in 1886 in order to make room for a new theatre. The church was dismantled in May 1892an event which caused much controversy, notably the emotive declaration of Polish painter Jan Matejko, that he would never exhibit his paintings in Kraków again.\n\nThe new theatre opened on October 21, 1893. It was an exquisite example of the Polish Eclectic architecture, the first building in Kraków designed for and equipped with electric light. Initially it was called Municipal Theatre (\"Teatr Miejski\"). Only in 1909 did it receive the name of Juliusz Słowacki, a Polish poet and playwright of Romanticism.\n\nInauguration took place with a program consisting of excerpts from Aleksander Fredro's \"Zemsta\", Juliusz Słowacki's \"Balladyna\" and Adam Mickiewicz's \"Konfederaci Barscy\". The theatre staged its first full-length production, Fredro's \"Śluby Panieńskie\", four days later.\n\nDuring Nazi Germany occupation of Poland, the theatre was run by a German troupe. The last Polish play for the next 6 years was produced in Autumn 1939. The theatre reopened for Polish audience in February 1945.\n\nSince March 27, 1976, the theatre is accompanied by the Small Stage housed in the former electric plant (designed in 1890s, to provide the theatre with its own electricity). In 2000 a third stage was added, the summertime Next to the Pump Stage. A fourth one (Stage in the Gate) opened on November 7, 2003.\n\nThe first director of the Theatre was Tadeusz Pawlikowski (1893–1899), followed by Józef Kotarbiński (1899–1905) and Ludwik Solski (1905–1913). Tadeusz Pawlikowski resumed this position in the years 1913-1915. Playwright Lucjan Rydel became the Theatre's director for one season during 1915-1916. Adam Grzymala-Siedlecki took that role in the years 1916-1918.\n\nAfter World War I, the theatre was directed by Teofil Trzciński (1918–1926), Zygmunt Nowakowski (1926–1929), once again Trzciński (1929–1932), Juliusz Osterwa (1932–1935) and Karol Frycz (1935–1939). Frycz and Osterwa became the directors again after World War II (Frycz from 1945–1946, and Osterwa in 1946-1947). The next directors were Bronisław Dąbrowski (1947–1950) and Henryk Szletyński (1950–1955). Bronisław Dąbrowski was once again appointed as director from 1955-1972. Krystyna Skuszanka and Jerzy Krasowski directed the theatre from 1972 to 1981. Andrzej Kijowski's short period of directorship ended the same year with the imposition of martial law in Poland. Mikołaj Grabowski (1982–1985) was followed by Jan Paweł Gawlik (1985–1989), Jan Prochyra (1989–1990), Jerzy Goliński (1990–1992) and Bogdan Hussakowski (1992–1999). Current director of the theatre is Krzysztof Orzechowski.\n\nThe Theatre became the birthplace of the theatrical concept of the Young Poland movement and was closely related to the rediscovery of Romantic drama as well as the premiere productions of plays by Polish national playwright Stanisław Wyspiański.\n\nThe significance of the Polish Romantic tradition under the foreign occupation and especially Słowacki's legacy was reflected in the first festival of his plays organized there in 1909. It was at this time that the Theatre adopted the name of Słowacki and became known as Juliusz Słowacki Theatre.\n\nAt the Theatre, the audiences could witness actors such as Kazimierz Kamiński, Ludwik Solski, Maksymilian Węgrzyn, Antonina Hoffman, Wanda Siemaszkowa, Stanisława Wysocka and Aleksander Zelwerowicz. Theatre artists like Juliusz Osterwa and Kazmierz Junosza-Stepowski began their careers at the Słowacki Theatre, and Helena Modrzejewska made numerous guest appearances. During the interwar period, the theatre was overshadowed by the Warsaw theatre scene, but still it was considered to be one of the most important stages in Poland. In 1980 the Słowacki Theatre staged the world premiere of Pope John Paul II \"Our God's Brother\" (\"\"), a production whose significance was above all political.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "404529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404529", "title": "Kiidk'yaas", "text": "Kiidk'yaas\n\nKiidk'yaas (meaning \"ancient tree\" in the Haida language), also known as the Golden Spruce, was a Sitka spruce tree (\"Picea sitchensis\" 'Aurea') that grew on the banks of the Yakoun River on the Haida Gwaii archipelago, in British Columbia Canada. It had a rare genetic mutation that caused its needles to be golden in colour (rather than the usual green). Kiidk'yaas was considered sacred by the Haida people.\n\nKiidk'yaas was felled in January 1997 by Grant Hadwin as an act of protest against the logging industry.\n\nKiidk'yaas and its felling are the subject of John Vaillant's 2005 book \"The Golden Spruce\".\n\nKiidk'yaas features prominently in Haida mythology.\n\nThe Kiidk'yaas story tells of a young boy who disrespected nature and thereby caused a terrible storm to descend on his village. Only he and his grandfather survived the storm. As they fled the village, the grandfather warned the boy not to look back. The boy disobeyed, and was immediately turned into the Golden Spruce where he stood.\n\nIn January 1997, 47-year-old unemployed forest engineer Grant Hadwin travelled to Haida Gwaii and purchased a chainsaw and other felling equipment. Early on the morning of January 20, 1997 he swam across the freezing Yakoun River (with all of his equipment, in the middle of the night, in mid-winter) and made a series of strategic deep cuts in Kiidk'yaas. The cuts were designed to leave Kiidk'yaas standing but weakened, so that it would be knocked over by the next strong winds. The tree fell two days later.\n\nAfter cutting down the tree, Hadwin left the islands for Prince Rupert, British Columbia. He sent a fax to the media and the Haida nation claiming responsibility for the act, saying that he was motivated by \"rage and hatred towards university trained professionals and their extremist supporters\". The act outraged people throughout Canada and received extensive media coverage. Hadwin was arrested, ordered to return to Haida Gwaii to stand trial, and released on bail.\n\nHadwin planned to travel to his trial date by crossing the notoriously stormy and violent Hecate Strait (from Prince Rupert to Masset) alone by kayak in mid-winter. He departed Prince Rupert in February 1997 but never arrived at his trial. What is believed to be Hadwin's broken kayak and effects were found on Mary Island in June 1997. Whether he had been murdered for his crime, accidentally drowned, or left his belongings behind and fled into the wilderness is not known. His fate remains unknown.\n\nIn 1977 a group of botanists from the University of British Columbia (UBC) visited Haida Gwaii to take cuttings of Kiidk'yaas. These cuttings were grafted onto ordinary Sitka spruce, resulting in two golden saplings. The trees were grown in the UBC Botanical Garden and Centre for Plant Research. Upon hearing of the tree's destruction in 1997, the arboretum offered one of the two young trees to replace Kiidk'yaas. However, the sapling died in storage before it could be transported to Haida Gwaii. The second sapling survives at UBC.\n\nAfter Kiidk'yaas' felling, attempts were made to propagate a further 80 cuttings (with the permission of the Haida people) in order to increase the chances of a successful offspring surviving.\n\nThe only wood harvested from the tree was used by Nova Scotia luthier George Rizsanyi and broadcaster Jowi Taylor as part of Six String Nation, a guitar dedicated to Canadian history. Other pieces of the guitar include wood from Pierre Trudeau's canoe paddle and Paul Henderson's hockey stick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51605681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51605681", "title": "List of entertainment events at Rogers Arena", "text": "List of entertainment events at Rogers Arena\n\nMany local, regional and international artists have performed at Rogers Arena, spanning a wide range of musical genres. A list of concerts that were held at the venue are given in the table below, while other non-concert entertainment events are also included.\n"}
{"id": "379529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379529", "title": "Mickey's Polo Team", "text": "Mickey's Polo Team\n\nMickey's Polo Team is a 1936 American animated short film produced by Walt Disney Productions and released by United Artists. The cartoon features a game of polo played between four Disney characters, led by Mickey Mouse, and four cartoon versions of real-life movie stars. It was directed by David Hand and was first released on January 4, 1936. The film was inspired by Walt Disney's personal love of polo.\n\nThe cartoon features cameos of many Disney characters from the \"Mickey Mouse\" and \"Silly Symphony\" film series, as well as several real-world 1930s entertainment figures.\n\nMickey Mouse is participating in a polo game, with a team that includes Goofy, the Big Bad Wolf, and Donald Duck, who is having trouble with his donkey. They are playing against Stan Laurel, Oliver Hardy, Harpo Marx, and Charlie Chaplin (for which he is in his Tramp outfit). Actor Jack Holt, who is serving as referee, throws the ball, which begins the game. First out is Oliver, who is knocked off his horse when the two teams fight to get the ball from the other. He is hit on the head with horseshoes while on the ground. The Big Bad Wolf takes the ball and manages to keep it ahead of the others but Charlie Chaplin soon steals the ball and hits it into one of the poles, using his cane to turn himself around to go in the other direction and keep up with the team. Meanwhile, Ollie is struggling to get back on his horse because of his overweight body. As Mickey hits the ball toward his home goal, Harpo Marx and his ostrich are forced to duck under the sand to avoid being hit. Ollie is finally able to get onto his horse but his weight causes the horse's body to sag in the middle.\n\nIn an attempt to make the horse stay up, Stan Laurel pulls Ollie's horse's tail out and ties it in a knot, which works. However, the horse refuses to get back in the game and no matter how hard Ollie tries to entice it, it stays in place. Stan tries to poke it with a needle to make it get going, but it takes off before he can do so, throwing Ollie off and having him get poked instead. In the game, the Big Bad Wolf takes the lead with the ball again, but loses his mallet in the process and uses his breath to make the ball go forward instead. However, Shirley Temple and The Three Little Pigs mock him for doing this and blow raspberries at him. He gets angry and pushes back by blowing the fence they are behind away and clouding them with dust, but the distraction causes him to lose his lead in the game. Donald Duck takes the lead and hits the ball, but Harpo Marx hits the ball back at him and the momentum behind the two to get the ball ends with them colliding.\n\nDonald yells insults at him for knocking him off, but Harpo responds by punching him with boxers' mitts that he hides in his clothes, burns Donald with a blowtorch and uses a noisemaker to push him away, back to his donkey. The ball lands right next to him and he tries to hit it but the team takes it away. Frustrated, he tries to get his donkey to move but it sits on him, laughing. It then kicks him into the ground where the ball lands on his tail and he is trampled by the other players (including Ollie, who finally manages to get back in the game). Donald throws a tantrum and accidentally swallows the ball, causing the teams to chase after him to get it out. Harpo hits him first, using the head of his ostrich, and the Big Bad Wolf manages to briefly get the ball out by hitting him but it bounces back inside Donald. All of the players from both teams try to hit him which eventually causes him to dig into the sand to escape. Donald tries to hide inside a pole but the teams continue to try to hit him out. Finally, he rips the pole off its base and leads both teams toward referee Jack Holt, which causes everyone to collide and make the horses end up riding their owners and continue the game in that way.\n\nIn detail the characters are:\n\nThe \"Mickey Mousers\" team:\n\nThe \"Movie Stars\" team:\n\nSpectators:\n\n\nThe short can be found on the \"Mickey Mouse in Living Color\" Volume 1 disc 1 and on the \"Walt Disney's Classic Cartoon Favorites Extreme Sports Fun\" Volume 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "195881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195881", "title": "Miracle of Chile", "text": "Miracle of Chile\n\nThe \"Miracle of Chile\" was a term used by economist Milton Friedman to describe the reorientation of the Chilean economy in the 1980s and the effects of the economic policies applied by a large group of Chilean economists who collectively came to be known as the Chicago Boys, having studied at the University of Chicago where Friedman taught. He said the \"Chilean economy did very well, but more importantly, in the end the central government, the military junta, was replaced by a democratic society. So the really important thing about the Chilean business is that free markets did work their way in bringing about a free society.\" The junta to which Friedman refers was a military government that came to power in a 1973 coup d'état, which came to an end in 1990 after a democratic 1988 plebiscite removed Augusto Pinochet from the presidency.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Chile experienced chronic inflation, reaching highs of 140 percent per annum, under socialist President Salvador Allende, whose government suffered heavy economic sanctions from Nixon's administration. This resulted in a lack of foreign-exchange reserves and falling GDP. The economic reforms implemented by the Chicago Boys had three main objectives: economic liberalization, privatization of state-owned companies, and stabilization of inflation. The first reforms were implemented in three rounds – 1975–82, 1985–present, the first of which led to the crisis of 1982. The reforms were continued and strengthened after 1990 by the post-Pinochet center government of Patricio Aylwin's Christian Democrats. However, the center-left government of Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle also made a commitment to poverty reduction. In 1988, 48% of Chileans lived below the poverty line. By 2000 this had been reduced to 20%. A 2004 World Bank report attributed 60% of Chile's 1990's poverty reduction to economic growth, and claimed that government programs aimed at poverty alleviation accounted for the rest.\n\nHernán Büchi, Minister of Finance under Pinochet between 1985 and 1989, wrote a book detailing the implementation process of the economic reforms during his tenure. Successive governments have continued these policies. In 2002 Chile signed an association agreement with the European Union (comprising free trade and political and cultural agreements), in 2003, an extensive free trade agreement with the United States, and in 2004 with South Korea, expecting a boom in import and export of local produce and becoming a regional trade-hub. Continuing the coalition's free-trade strategy, in August 2006 President Bachelet promulgated a free trade agreement with the People's Republic of China (signed under the previous administration of Ricardo Lagos), the first Chinese free-trade agreement with a Latin American nation; similar deals with Japan and India were promulgated in August 2007. In 2010, Chile was the first nation in South America to win membership in the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, an organization restricted to the world's richest countries.\n\nSome economists (such as Nobel laureate Amartya Sen) have argued that the experience of Chile in this period indicates a \"failure\" of the economic liberalism posited by thinkers such as Friedman, claiming that there was little net economic growth from 1975 to 1982 (during the so-called \"pure Monetarist experiment\"). After the catastrophic banking crisis of 1982 the state controlled more of the economy than it had under the previous socialist regime, and sustained economic growth only came after the later reforms that privatized the economy, while social indicators remained poor. Pinochet's dictatorship made the unpopular economic reorientation possible by repressing opposition to it. Rather than a triumph of the free market, the OECD economist Javier Santiso described this reorientation as \"combining neo-liberal sutures and interventionist cures\". By the time of sustained growth, the Chilean government had \"cooled its neo-liberal ideological fever\" and \"controlled its exposure to world financial markets and maintained its efficient copper company in public hands\".\n\nIn 1972, Chile's inflation was at 150%. According to Hernán Büchi, several factors such as expropriations, price controls, and protectionism caused these economic problems. The Central Bank increased the money supply to pay for the increasing deficit. Büchi states that this increase was the primary cause for inflation.\n\nUnited States government documents report an antagonistic foreign economic policy toward the Allende government that was \"articulated at the highest levels\" during this time. Shortly after Salvador Allende was elected president, but before he assumed office, then-CIA-director Richard Helms met with President Richard Nixon and discussed the situation in Chile. Helms' notes from his September 15, 1970 meeting contain the indication: \"Make the economy scream.\" A week later Ambassador Edward Korry reported telling outgoing Chilean president Eduardo Frei Montalva, through his Defense Minister, that \"not a nut or bolt would be allowed to reach Chile under Allende.\" By late 1972, the Chilean Ministry of the Economy estimated that almost one-third of the diesel trucks at Chuquicamata Copper Mine, 30 percent of the privately owned city buses, 21 percent of all taxis, and 33 percent of state-owned buses in Chile could not operate because of the lack of spare parts or tires. In overall terms, the value of United States machinery and transport equipment exported to Chile by U.S. firms declined from $153 million in 1970 to $110 million in 1971.\n\nImmediately following the Chilean coup of 1973, Augusto Pinochet was made aware of a confidential economic plan known as \"El ladrillo\" (literally, \"the brick\"), so called because the report was \"as thick as a brick\". The plan had been quietly prepared in May 1973 by economists who opposed Salvador Allende's government, with the help from a group of economists the press were calling the Chicago Boys, because they were predominantly alumni of the University of Chicago. The document contained the backbone of what would later on become the Chilean economic policy. According to the 1975 report of a United States Senate Intelligence Committee investigation, the Chilean economic plan was prepared in collaboration with the CIA.\n\nThe plan recommended a set of economic reforms that included deregulation and privatization. Among other reforms, they made the central bank independent, cut tariffs, privatized the state-controlled pension system, state industries, and banks, and reduced taxes. Pinochet's stated aim was to \"make Chile not a nation of proletarians, but a nation of entrepreneurs\".\n\nThe first reforms were implemented in three rounds – 1974–1983, 1985, and 1990.\n\nThe government welcomed foreign investment and eliminated protectionist trade barriers, forcing Chilean businesses to compete with imports on an equal footing, or else go out of business. The main copper company, Codelco, remained in government hands due to the nationalization of copper completed by Salvador Allende, however, private companies were allowed to explore and develop new mines. Copper resources were, however, declared \"inalienable\" by the 1980 Constitution.\n\nMinister of Finance Sergio de Castro, departing from Friedman's support for free floating exchange rates, decided on a pegged exchange rate of 39 pesos per dollar in June 1979, under the rationale of bringing Chile's rampant inflation to heel. The result, however, was that a serious balance-of-trade problem arose. Since Chilean peso inflation continued to outpace U.S. dollar inflation, every year Chilean buying power of foreign goods increased. When the bubble finally burst in late 1982, Chile slid into a severe recession that lasted more than two years.\n\nThis deep economic recession of 1982–1983 was Chile's second in eight years. (In 1975, when GDP fell by 13 percent, industrial production plunged by 27 percent and unemployment increased to 20 percent). Additionally, inflation reached 375 percent in 1974—the highest rate in the world and almost twice the top level under Allende. During the 1982–1983 recession, real economic output declined by 19%, with most of the recovery and subsequent growth taking place after Pinochet left office, when market-oriented economic policies were additionally strengthened.\n\nIn his Memoirs (\"Chapter 24: Chile\", 1998), Milton Friedman criticized De Castro and the fixed exchange rate.\n\nStarting in 1985, with Hernán Büchi as Minister of Finance, the focus of economic policies shifted toward financial solvency and economic growth. Exports grew rapidly and unemployment went down, however, poverty still represented a significant problem, with 45 percent of Chile's population below the poverty line in 1987. Büchi wrote about his experience during this period in his book \"La transformación económica de Chile: el modelo del progreso\". In 1990, the newly elected Patricio Aylwin government undertook a program of \"growth with equity\", emphasizing both continued economic liberalization and poverty reduction. Between 1990 and 2000, poverty was reduced from 40 percent of the population to 20 percent. 60 percent of this reduction can be attributed to GDP growth, with the remaining 40 percent attributable social policies.\n\nSuccessive Chilean governments have actively pursued trade-liberalizing agreements. The process began in the 1970s, when Pinochet cut tariffs on imports to 10%. Prior to that, Chile had been one of the most protectionist economies in the world, ranking 71 out 72 in a 1975 Cato Institute and Fraser Institute annual report. During the 1990s, Chile signed free trade agreements (FTA) with Canada, Mexico, and Central America. Chile also concluded preferential trade agreements with Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador. An association agreement with Mercosur—Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay—went into effect in October 1996. Continuing its export-oriented development strategy, Chile completed landmark free trade agreements in 2002 with the European Union and South Korea. Chile, as a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) organization, is seeking to boost commercial ties to Asian markets. To that end, it has signed trade agreements in recent years with New Zealand, Singapore, Brunei, India, China, and most recently Japan. In 2007, Chile held trade negotiations with Australia, Thailand, Malaysia, and China. In 2008, Chile hopes to conclude an FTA with Australia, and finalize an expanded agreement (covering trade in services and investment) with China. The P4 (Chile, Singapore, New Zealand, and Brunei) also plan to expand ties through adding a finance and investment chapter to the existing P4 agreement. Chile's trade talks with Malaysia and Thailand are also scheduled to continue in 2008.\n\nAmartya Sen, in his book \"Hunger and Public Action\", examines the performance of Chile in various economic and social indicators. He finds, from a survey of the literature on the field:\n\nAccording to Ricardo Ffrench-Davis the unnecessary radicalism of the shock therapy in the 1970s caused mass unemployment, purchasing power losses, extreme inequalities in the distribution of income and severe socio-economic damage. According to United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean data the percentage of Chilean population living in poverty rose from 17% in 1969 to 45% in 1985.\n\nWages decreased by 8%. Family allowances in 1989 were 28% of what they had been in 1970 and the budgets for education, health and housing had dropped by over 20% on average\n\nNobel laureate and economist Gary Becker states that \"Chile's annual growth in per capita real income from 1985 to 1996 averaged a remarkable 5 percent, far above the rest of Latin America.\" Since then the economy has averaged 3% annual growth in GDP.\n\nDevelopments were very positive with regards to infant mortality and life expectancy—infant mortality rate fell so much that Chile achieved the lowest level of infant mortality in Latin America in the 1980s. Infant mortality rate in Chile fell from 76.1 per 1000 to 22.6 per 1000 from 1970 to 1985. In 1988, the military government passed a law making all abortion illegal, and the law remains in place today.\n\nHowever, Sen claims that this improvement was not because of \"free-market\" policies but because of active public and state intervention. Chile had a very long tradition of public action for the improvement of childcare, which were largely maintained after the Pinochet coup:\n\nPerformance on economic indicators in comparison to those of other Chilean presidencies: \nMilton Friedman gave some lectures advocating free market economic policies at the Universidad Católica de Chile. In 1975, two years after the coup, he met with Pinochet for 45 minutes, where the general \"indicated very little indeed about his own or the government's feeling\" and the president asked Friedman to write him a letter laying out what he thought Chile's economic policies should be, which he also did. To stop inflation, Friedman proposed reduction of government deficits that had increased in the past years and a flat commitment by government that after six months it will no longer finance government spending by creating money. He proposed relief of cases of real hardship among poorest classes. In October 1975 the New York Times columnist Anthony Lewis declared that \"the Chilean junta's economic policy is based on the ideas of Milton Friedman…and his Chicago School\".\n\nFriedman has wondered why some have attacked him for giving a lecture in Chile: \"I must say, it's such a wonderful example of a double standard, because I had spent time in Yugoslavia, which was a communist country. I later gave a series of lectures in China. When I came back from communist China, I wrote a letter to the Stanford Daily newspaper in which I said, 'It's curious. I gave exactly the same lectures in China that I gave in Chile. I have had many demonstrations against me for what I said in Chile. Nobody has made any objections to what I said in China. How come?'\" He noted that his visit was unrelated to the political side of the regime and that, during his visit to Chile, he even stated that following his economic liberalization advice would help bring political freedom and the downfall of the regime.\n\nCommenting on his statement about the \"Miracle\", Friedman says that \"the emphasis of that talk was that free markets would undermine political centralization and political control.\" Friedman stated that \"The real miracle in Chile was not that those economic reforms worked so well, but because that's what Adam Smith said they would do. Chile is by all odds the best economic success story in Latin America today. The real miracle is that a military junta was willing to let them do it.\" Friedman said the \"Chilean economy did very well, but more important, in the end the central government, the military junta, was replaced by a democratic society. So the really important thing about the Chilean business is that free markets did work their way in bringing about a free society.\"\n\nAccording to the Chilean scholars Javier Martínez and Alvaro Díaz it is a fallacy that the return to democracy in Chile was the result of free market reforms. Contrary to that argument the return of democracy required the defeat of the Pinochet regime. The essential contribution came from profound mass rebellions and finally old party elites using institutional mechanisms to bring back democracy.\n\nAccording to the 2015 Index of Economic Freedom (of the Heritage Foundation, Fraser Institute and WSJ), Chile's economy is the 7th freest. Chile is ranked 1st out of 29 countries in the Americas and has been a regional leader for over a decade. Chile's annual GDP growth was 3.2% in 2008 and had averaged 4.8% from 2004 to 2008.\n\nThe percent of total income earned by the richest 20% of the Chilean population in 2006 was 56.8%, while the percent of total income earned by the poorest 20% of the Chilean population was 4.1%, leaving a strong middle class earning 39.1% of total income. Chile's Gini index (measure of income distribution) was 52.0 in 2006, compared to 24.7 of Denmark (most equally distributed) and 74.3 of Namibia (most unequally distributed). Chile has the widest inequality gap of any nation in the OECD.\n\n"}
{"id": "30330725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30330725", "title": "Mozart, l'opéra rock", "text": "Mozart, l'opéra rock\n\nMozart, l'opéra rock (\"Mozart, the rock opera\") is a French musical with music by Dove Attia, Jean-Pierre Pilot, Olivier Schultheis, William Rousseau, Nicolas Luciani, Rodrigue Janois and François Castello, lyrics by Vincent Baguian and Patrice Guirao and a book by Attia and François Chouquet. The show is a dramatization of the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart beginning from the age of 17 and culminating with his death in 1791 at the age of 35. It uses both original pop-rock compositions as well as pre-existing music composed by Mozart.\n\nThe musical premiered on 22 September 2009 at the Palais des Sports de Paris, where it continued until 3 January 2010. From 4 February 2010 until 3 July 2010, it went on tour in France, Belgium and Switzerland. It returned to Paris between 9 November 2010 and 9 January 2011. A second tour began on 4 February 2011, and the production closed on 10 July 2011 at the Palais Omnisports de Paris-Bercy. It was directed by Olivier Dahan, choreographed by Dan Stewart and produced by Attia and Albert Cohen.\n\nThe show opens with the accession of Hieronymus von Colloredo-Mannsfeld to the archbishop of Salzburg. Unlike the previous ruler, Colloredo is discouraging of the arts, which does not bode well for the Mozart family, who work for him. When Leopold Mozart requests leave to tour with his seventeen-year-old son and musical prodigy, Wolfgang, Colloredo refuses and suggests Leopold and Wolfgang quit if they are dissatisfied. Leopold and his daughter, Wolfgang's older sister, Nannerl, bemoan the state of Salzburg and its subservient people (\"Penser l'Impossible\"). Wolfgang appears, tumbling out from under the skirts of several women he's been chasing, and proceeds to be told exactly what Colloredo told Leopold: His leave has been denied.\n\nWolfgang insists that he'll leave Salzburg alone if he has to, as Leopold must stay behind because they can't afford to be without work. Instead, Leopold sends Wolfgang's mother, Anna Maria, with him, as well as a warning: to find work fast, because a musician without a patron is no one. Anna Maria and Wolfgang set out for Mannheim, unaware that Colloredo has already sent word ahead to the Prince to assure that Wolfgang will not find work with him.\n\nThe show moves ahead to an inn in Mannheim (\"La chanson de l'aubergiste\"), where Wolfgang enters with several finished commissions. After sharing his dream of writing a grand opera in German, he is ridiculed by several of the people in the bar who remind him that all operas are written in Italian. Wolfgang rejects their comments (\"Le Trublion\") and a fight breaks out, during which both he and his mother flee before being arrested by the police. A local copyist meets them, already aware of Wolfgang's musical prestige, and offers to copy all of his compositions free and help him distribute them for a small condition – coming to visit his family.\n\nThe copyist is Fridolin Weber—Cecilia's husband—and they intend to have Wolfgang help them prepare their daughter, Aloysia, for a ball for the Princess of Orange to boost her fame. Anna Maria and Wolfgang visit the Webers at their home, where Wolfgang is introduced to Sophie, Josepha, and Constanze. Upon the appearance of Aloysia (\"Bim Bam Boum\"), Wolfgang falls head over heels and forgoes his other commissions to help her prepare for her showcase to the Princess. He and the other members of the Weber family are unaware that Constanze has already started to fall in love with the young composer (\"Ah! Vous dirais-je maman\").\n\nAnna Maria, seeing that her son is prepared to throw away his musical career over his love of Aloysia, writes home to Leopold in the hopes that he will be able to snap Wolfgang out of his enamored state. She attempts to do this by telling Wolfgang that his commissions have been dropped and he's been rejected for employment, but Wolfgang insists that Aloysia is his future and displays no worry.\n\nAt the ball, Wolfgang and Aloysia display their respective musical talents, while Fridolin and Cecila attempt to get the Princess of Orange to take an interest in their daughter. While Wolfgang discusses music with the Princess, Aloysia discovers Constanze's jealousy over her relationship with Wolfgang (\"Six pieds sous terre\"). Wolfgang returns to announce that Aloysia will, indeed, be employed with the Princess of Orange and seems prepared to dedicate his life to her when Anna Maria arrives with a letter from Leopold (\"J'accuse mon père\"). He instructs Wolfgang to go to Paris to find work, and only then may he return to Aloysia. Aloysia, who intended to work with Wolfgang to bolster her success, proclaims that she hates him in response to Wolfgang's confession of love (something that Wolfgang does not hear).\n\nAfter arriving in Paris, Wolfgang attempts to distribute his music and find a job (\"Tatoue-moi\"), but finds that Paris's doors have closed to him as well. When his mother suddenly falls ill and passes away (\"la Procession\"), he is left alone and jobless. In this state he imagines a grand and mocking display (\"la Mascarade\") before Aloysia appears again. Still in love with her, he tells her that he has written an aria for her, which she ignores. She tells him that she is involved in the opera now, and far too busy for him. With lingering hatred she mocks his mourning clothes, seeming unaffected by the death of his mother, and when Wolfgang confesses that he wants to marry her she tells him that she is engaged to the actor Joseph Lange.\n\nRealizing how alone he is, and that all doors have closed to him, Wolfgang reflects on the humiliation, betrayal, and suffering he has gone through (\"Je dors sur des roses\"). Seeming defeated by his losses and hopelessness, Wolfgang rejects everyone who has attempted to bring him down and decides he will believe in his old dreams and aspirations, regardless of who or what stands in his way.\n\nWolfgang has returned to Salzburg under the service of Colloredo and is preparing to leave for Vienna with the archbishop to pay homage to the newly crowned Joseph II. He tells his father that he plans to make a new life for himself in Vienna, which his father scoffs at, reminding him that his previous carelessness resulted in the death of his mother. He instructs Wolfgang to do as the archbishop tells him and return to Salzburg when he's done, but Wolfgang insists that he'll do what he has to as it's his life, and his music.\n\nAfter leaving the company of his father, he is confronted by Colloredo, who reiterates his father's message of doing as he's told. When Wolfgang attempts to reason with him, Colloredo will hear nothing of it and tells him to go join the other servants – who proceed to mock him alongside a clown-like representation of his own doubt (\"Comédie-tragédie\"). The badgering mounts to a crescendo and he informs Colloredo that he quits and he is free to do as he pleases from now on. He proceeds to pass out his music throughout all of Vienna, where it is well received, and he finally begins to make a name for himself (\"Place je passe\").\n\nThe scene moves to Antonio Salieri, walking with Rosenberg, the Steward to Emperor Joseph II, and Gottlieb Stephanie, a librettist who has recently finished his piece \"The Abduction from the Seraglio\". Rosenberg tells Salieri of the newcomer, Wolfgang, and his aspirations of composing a German opera, which Rosenberg then proceeds to mock for its lack of eloquence. Upon the appearance of the Emperor, Rosenberg attempts to discourage him from choosing Wolfgang as the composer for his commission on the basis of his desire to use German instead of the more traditional Italian.\n\nRosenberg explains that Wolfgang insists on writing in nothing other than German, though the idea of an opera in Vienna's native language appeals to the Emperor. He asks for the opinion of Salieri, already a well-known composer of the court, who appears to agree with the idea that Wolfgang is foolish, but also concedes that he is infinitely talented. In the end, Joseph decides that Mozart will do the music for their opera, much to the glee of Stephanie and the disdain of Rosenberg.\n\nAt the height of his dispute with Colloredo, Wolfgang takes up board with the Webers, who have moved to Vienna after the death of Fridolin and are taking in boarders to make ends meet. It is here he is re-introduced to Constanze, who has apparently decided to give up on love as she puts far too much into her relationships and is left heartbroken when they don't work out (\"Si je défaille\"). While Josepha and Sophie are excited to see him again, Cecilia is less than pleased with how he left Aloysia. Though she happily tells him that Aloysia's now married, doing well, and expecting a child. She also tells him that she doesn't want Wolfgang getting any ideas about her other daughters (or her, for that matter). After she leaves, Josepha and Sophie bombard him with questions about his new-found success in Vienna until Constanze intervenes and leads him to his room to get some rest.\n\nMoving ahead, it has come time for Salieri and Rosenberg to check on the progress Wolfgang has made with his opera. When they arrive, Monsieur Stephanie attempts dissuade them, but they press on anyway and discover that Wolfgang is distracted from his work, instead chasing Constanze and demanding a kiss. Rosenberg is appalled by the display while Monsieur Stephanie attempts to get Wolfgang's attention. Wolfgang ignores him, and the diva, La Cavalieri, goes so far so to tease the latter with a kiss when she attempts to get him to focus.\n\nIt is ultimately Salieri who gets his attention with a simple recitation of his name. He explains that they are there on behalf of the Emperor and, by what they've seen, he will be disappointed. Annoyed at the treatment, Wolfgang demands to know how they can judge without hearing a single note, to which Rosenberg replies that there are too many notes. After a brief argument, Rosenberg tells Salieri that they're leaving and exits. Salieri, believing Wolfgang's behavior was a display to prevent them from discovering how little he's achieved, commends him for the clever plot. He remarks that he hopes Wolfgang's apparent confidence isn't a front for a lack of real talent.\n\nHowever, before he can go, Wolfgang passes him his sheet music, saying that he won't need it as he begins to conduct. Salieri stays behind to listen, and is overcome by the beauty of Wolfgang's work and the skill he displays (\"Le bien qui fait mal\"). Startled and unnerved by the immeasurable talent, Salieri tells Wolfgang that if he remembers his place, all will be well between them. Salieri leaves and, pleased with his victory, Wolfgang returns to his game with Constanze. Unfortunately for the young lovers, Cecilia catches them and explains that she has had an agreement written up (a \"promesse de mariage,\" in French, or \"promise of marriage\"): If Wolfgang does not marry Constanze within three years, he will have to pay Cecilia three-hundred florins. With no way out, Wolfgang signs the agreement despite knowing his father will not approve, and Constanze, upset with her mother's trap, runs off.\n\nBack in Salzburg, Nannerl reads the news to her father that Wolfgang is doing well in Vienna and has a promising career of fame and fortune ahead of him. Leopold, however, is distraught over his son's request to marry Constanze. Despite Nannerl's suggestion of letting them be happy, and her insistence that Constanze seems sincere, Leopold is unmoved. She relates to Constanze, understanding her love for Wolfgang, and in Vienna Constanze reiterates this fact. Wolfgang, unable to believe that Constanze had anything to do with Cecilia's trap for him, confronts Constanze about it. Constanze insists that she didn't know about it and that she loves him of her own accord, so when Wolfgang tells her that isn't enough she rips it up the stolen contract. Now confident in their love, Wolfgang asks her to marry him and the two are wed (\"Les solos sous les draps\").\n\nAfter the ceremony, Rosenberg explains his growing disdain for not only Wolfgang's work, but also for Salieri's nonchalant treatment of it. He mocks Salieri's calm demeanor, as well as his disregard for how successful Wolfgang seems to be in Vienna, unaware that he is being watched by the very person he's ridiculing. Despite his disapproval, he admits to a few decent parts, beginning to sing the overture as one of them. After a short dance, Salieri makes himself known, startling Rosenberg greatly in the process, and proceeds to mimic Rosenberg's previous exaggerated display of his behavior. When asked if he really enjoys Wolfgang's music that much, Rosenberg denies it and explains that he was actually cursing in rage. He also tells Salieri that he plans to have friends of his sit in front of the Emperor at the opera's premiere to boo and hiss it. Salieri hesitates, but ultimately tells him to go ahead with the plan.\n\nAfter the success of \"The Abduction from the Seraglio\", Wolfgang enjoys a celebration with his friends and wife where they mock Salieri and Rosenberg's attempts at upsetting the show. It is here that Wolfgang is approached by the well-known librettist, Lorenzo Da Ponte, who expresses interest in working with him. He presents Wolfgang with the work he had in mind, but Wolfgang refuses, instead proposing \"The Marriage of Figaro\", a controversial drama by Beaumarchais. Da Ponte initially refuses, wary of the trouble it could cause, but is swayed when Wolfgang explains that he associates not with radical politics, but the triumph of Figaro as a free man. Da Ponte agrees, and they begin work.\n\nAt the rehearsal several months later, Joseph is frustrated to find that his opera has no music, and Wolfgang explains that Rosenberg has crippled his finale by declaring that the use of ballet has been forbidden by the Emperor. Joseph replies that he will simply change the old custom. He instructs Salieri to fix the problem, and Salieri tells Wolfgang to recommence the rehearsal with musical accompaniment.\n\nFrustrated by Salieri's compliance, Rosenberg confronts him and rebuffs the idea that Salieri was getting them out of the mess Rosenberg nearly got them in. Still feeling that Salieri doesn't understand, he is surprised to find that Salieri actually understands very well: The monarchy will never approve of \"The Marriage of Figaro\", and it will be Wolfgang's undoing. He instructs Rosenberg to spread rumors and discord throughout the salons and cast, to bribe them if need be, before sending him off.\n\nHowever, as Rosenberg exits, Salieri is conflicted about his actions, acknowledging again that Wolfgang's music is sublime. He laments his inability to compare with Wolfgang's talent despite dedicating himself to his music day and night, and, driven nearly to madness with jealousy and impending guilt, Salieri attempts to commit suicide (\"l'Assasymphonie\"). He fails to do so, however, and ultimately lives to see the fruition of his plans.\n\nAs friends of Wolfgang, including Constanze and Aloysia, are celebrating the success \"The Marriage of Figaro\" Rosenberg appears to tell them that, at the order of the Emperor, the opera has been banned in Vienna. This begins a downward spiral for Wolfgang, starting with his distraction while he and Da Ponte attempt to recover from the failure of Figaro with a new opera, \"Don Giovanni\", due to his father being ill. Unable to leave due to his work, Wolfgang is unable to be in Salzburg with Nannerl when Leopold passes away (\"Dors mon ange\").\n\nLater, a mysterious, masked figure appears when Wolfgang is in dire need of money, commissioning him on behalf of an unnamed connoisseur. The commission is for a requiem mass and Wolfgang is paid 100 ducats upfront with a promise of more when he finishes. The mysterious figure leaves, telling him to work with the greatest possible care and while Constanze believes this will solve their financial problems, Wolfgang worries of something far more serious: he believes the man has come from the afterlife to signal the end.\n\nIn another part of Vienna, a party has gathered to celebrate Salieri obtaining the title of choirmaster of the Imperial Chapel as well to as mock Wolfgang's latest opera \"The Magic Flute\". The only one to stand up for Wolfgang is Da Ponte, who quickly leaves in disgust at their display. Although he has achieved everything he wanted, Salieri is bitter about the victory over Wolfgang and spiteful towards himself, knowing it was obtained through underhanded means (\"Victime de ma victoire\"). He realizes that despite winning, he has still lost.\n\nWolfgang, impoverished and ill, attempts to keep working even as his adversaries continue to openly berate and insult him. While working with his student, Süssmayr, to complete his requiem, Wolfgang collapses and is ushered to bed by both Süssmayr and Constanze. His condition continues to worsen and he struggles to get out of bed when Salieri visits, having heard of Wolfgang's illness and now wishing to reconcile what he'd done. Though Constanze tries to get him to leave, Wolfgang insists on getting from his sickbed to speak with him.\n\nHe confides in Salieri that he will not finish his requiem and he knows that he is dying. When Constanze becomes upset and tries to call a doctor, he tells her that he only wishes to see Süssmayr, and that everything needed for finishing the requiem is on the desk. Constanze leaves in tears, and Wolfgang realizes how quickly life passes, just as Salieri realizes that the fear and anguish he felt are unimportant, as was the fleeting desire to outdo Wolfgang. They agree to meet each other again, in a place where their rivalry and offenses mean nothing anymore (\"Vivre à en crever\"). The musical ends with Wolfgang's death and ascension.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first CD single featured the songs \"Tatoue-moi\" and \"Quand le rideau tombe\", and was released in 2008. This single was number one in sales for five weeks, and remained in the top 5 for eleven weeks. Other singles followed in 2009: \"Vivre à en crever\", \"L'assasymphonie\" and \"Le bien qui fait mal\". Two more single were released in 2010: \"J'accuse mon père\" and \"C'est bientôt la fin\".\n\nThe first cast album consisted of 12 tracks and was released in April 2009. The complete recording, comprising 27 tracks, was released in September 2009.\n\nSix music videos were made to accompany the show: \"Tatoue-Moi\", \"Vivre à En Crever\", \"L'Assasymphonie\", \"Le Bien Qui Fait Mal\", \"J'accuse mon père\" and \"C'est bientôt la fin\".\n\nIn November 2010, a DVD recording of the show was released. The show was also recorded in 3D and released theatrically in 2011.\n\nThe show has received mixed responses from critics, despite a large fan following and great popularity within Europe.\n\"Le Figaro\" praised the lighting and certain \"innovations\" in the staging, but also noted \"the mediocre sound, an inconsistent libretto and uneven casting,\" stating that Mikelangelo Loconte's performance at Mozart was at once over-the top and \"disembodied.\" \"Le Point\" also praised the lighting but deplored the \"insipid melodies\" and a \"mediocrity\" which the actors were unable to overcome. \"France Soir\" described the show as \"lacking genius and impertinence,\" weighed down by \"a disjointed first act,\" \"simpering\" female characters and a \"fidgety\" Mozart. \"'L'Express\" noted the \"stylized scenes\" and \"hurried narrative.\" The magazine \"Têtu\" referred to the musical as \"glittering, sugared like a meringue,\" extremely amusing but lacking noteworthy vocal skill.\n\nOn the other hand, the magazine \"Première\" stated that the show was a success. Thierry Quinson of regardencoulisse.com, despite qualifications regarding the sound and the weak narrative of the second act, asserted that the project marked \"a veritable evolution in the grand musicals of the last few years: the songs are better written, less formulaic and syrupy, a better-constructed narrative leaving more room for acting and choreography which is less invasive and systematic.\"\n\nNRJ Music Awards 2010 :\n\n"}
{"id": "41823107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41823107", "title": "Mötley Crüe Final Tour", "text": "Mötley Crüe Final Tour\n\nThe Final Tour was a concert tour by heavy metal band Mötley Crüe. It had been announced as the band's final tour. Alice Cooper was announced as the opening act for the tour. The first leg of the tour began on July 2, 2014 in Grand Rapids, Michigan and concluded on November 22, 2014 in Spokane, Washington. The band further announced more dates for the second and final leg of the tour, which started February 11, 2015 in Kobe, Japan, and ended with three concerts at Staples Center in the band's hometown of Los Angeles on December 28, 30 and 31, 2015. The Tour was kicked off by a drum solo by Producer Joe of the FreeBeer & Hotwings show.\n\nOn January 28, 2014, Mötley Crüe held a press conference at Beacher's Madhouse Theater in Hollywood, where they announced a final tour with Alice Cooper as the opening act, and later on added New York City-based band The Raskins as a second opening act for the first leg of the tour. The band became the first to sign a binding legal document known as a \"cessation of touring\" contract, preventing them from touring beyond the year 2015 under the name Mötley Crüe. The first leg of the Final Tour began on July 2, 2014 in Grand Rapids, Michigan and ended on November 22, 2014 in Spokane, Washington.\n\nIn January 2015, the band announced that the Final Tour would keep going through the year of 2015, beginning with a handful of international dates in Japan, Australia, Europe and Rock in Rio for their only date in South America on the tour, followed by 34 more dates in North America to end the year and the tour. Even more North American dates however were later added in April 2015. Then a couple months later in June while in London preparing to perform at three different festivals across Europe, Mötley Crüe and Alice Cooper announced a full set of European dates, with the shows set to take place in November 2015. On July 16, 2015, the band set out on their second North American leg of the Final Tour, beginning with two sold-out nights in Anchorage, Alaska, with the first of the two shows being recorded for an upcoming live album to be released sometime after the tour concludes. They brought along New York City-based band \"The Cringe\" as a second opening act for most of the second North American leg of the tour. Drummer Tommy Lee was forced to miss a handful of shows during October 2015 due to a flare up of tendinitis in his wrist. Alice Cooper's drummer Glen Sobel filled in for Lee on drums until he was able to return. Lee was however able to perform the piano parts in the band's hit song \"Home, Sweet, Home\" during the encore at each of the shows he missed.\n\nThe band's final shows were held in different cities throughout the southwest region of the U.S. where the band often played as they were starting out in the early 1980s, leading up to the finales, including a performance in Las Vegas where lead vocalist Vince Neil has most recently been residing, and eventually ended with three nights at the Staples Center in the band's hometown of Los Angeles on December 28, 30 and 31st of 2015. Rumors of an intimate encore performance taking place at the Whisky a Go Go immediately following the band's New Year's Eve performance at Staples Center was dismissed by Mötley Crüe bassist Nikki Sixx in an April 2015 interview.\n\nThe set list was shortened by two songs from the first to the second leg of the tour, no longer playing songs \"On With the Show\" and \"Too Fast for Love\". However \"Louder Than Hell\" was then added. The opening song was changed from \"Saints of Los Angeles\" to \"Girls, Girls, Girls\".\n\nThe following set list was taken from the performance on August 5, 2015 in Saint Paul, Minnesota at Xcel Energy Center:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25842307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25842307", "title": "Nalapanima", "text": "Nalapanima\n\nNalapanima is a musical play (Geeti Natak) describing patriotism of a Nepalese soldier during Anglo-Nepalese War at the Battle of Nalapani in 1814 AD, fought under the command of Balbhadra Kunwar. A wounded Nepalese soldier sought help from the British camp. He was grateful for the humaniterian help from the British but defied an offer to join British army (Gurkha War). \n\nThe Drama was staged at the Rastriya Nachghar (Nepal). Lyrics were written by Bala Krishna ‘Sama’ and music composed by Shiva Shankar. After few years the drama was re-edited by Deepak Jangam and staged again. The songs of the album comprise distinctive blending of Nepalese folk styles and modern light touch. The album also contains some unique duet songs sung by Narayan Gopal and his mentor Manik Ratna.\n\n"}
{"id": "597013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=597013", "title": "Noël Coward Theatre", "text": "Noël Coward Theatre\n\nThe Noël Coward Theatre, formerly known as the Albery Theatre, is a West End theatre on St. Martin's Lane in the City of Westminster, London. It opened on 12 March 1903 as the New Theatre and was built by Sir Charles Wyndham behind Wyndham's Theatre which was completed in 1899. The building was designed by architect W. G. R. Sprague with an exterior in the classical style and an interior in the Rococo style.\n\nIn 1973 it was renamed the Albery Theatre in tribute to Sir Bronson Albery who had presided as its manager for many years. Since September 2005, the theatre has been owned by Delfont-Mackintosh Ltd. It underwent major refurbishment in 2006, and was renamed the Noël Coward Theatre when it re-opened for the London premiere of \"Avenue Q\" on 1 June 2006. Noël Coward, one of Britain's greatest playwrights and actors, appeared in his own play, \"I'll Leave It To You\", at the then New Theatre in 1920, the first West End production of one of his plays.\n\nThe theatre seats 872 patrons on four levels. The building is now a Grade II Listed structure.\nAfter opening in 1903 with a production of \"Rosemary\" starring Charles Wyndham and his wife, Mary Moore (3 July 1861 – 6 April 1931), the Noël Coward Theatre has hosted a number productions. \"I'll Leave it to You\", in 1920, was Coward's first play. George Bernard Shaw's \"St. Joan\" with an acclaimed performance by actress Sybil Thorndike ran in 1924. \nThe 1930s saw the greatest commercial success of John Gielgud's career, \"Richard of Bordeaux\" (1933). Gielgud followed up this triumph with a legendary production of \"Hamlet\" in which he both played the title role and directed a company that included Jessica Tandy, Jack Hawkins and a young Alec Guinness in one of his first professional roles as Osric. Gielgud also appeared with Laurence Olivier, Peggy Ashcroft and Edith Evans in \"Romeo and Juliet\". With the Blitz came the destruction of the theatres that were home to the Old Vic and Sadler's Wells Theatre Companies. Both companies made the New Theatre home until their respective theatres were rebuilt in the 1950s. One of the most successful shows to play the New Theatre opened 30 June 1960. It was Lionel Bart's \"Oliver!\", which ran for 2,618 performances.\n\nA 1970 Royal Shakespeare Company production of Dion Boucicault's \"London Assurance\", directed by Ronald Eyre, with Donald Sinden as Sir Harcourt Courtly, (for which he received the 1975 Drama Desk Special Award) Roger Rees as Charles, Judi Dench as Grace and Dinsdale Landen as Dazzle, transferred to the New Theatre in 1972 for a year, prior to its 1974 run in New York.\n\nIn 1981, \"Children of a Lesser God\" won Olivier Awards for Best New Play and for actors Trevor Eve and Elizabeth Quinn. Among some of the 1980s productions is the 1994 revival of Turgenev's \"A Month in the Country\" starring Helen Mirren and John Hurt.\n\nIn the 2000s the theatre has played host to several Shakespeare productions including a production of \"Twelfth Night\" set in India with an entirely Asian cast. The production played to packed houses and only closed as the Royal Shakespeare Company themselves had exclusive rights to perform their annual London season of Tragedies there. Between December 2004 and April 2005, they presented \"Hamlet\", \"Romeo & Juliet\", \"Macbeth\", \"King Lear\" and a brand new production of Euripides' \"Hecuba\" starring Vanessa Redgrave.\n\nOn 8 June 2005, Dion Boucicault's Victorian melodrama \"The Shaughraun\" opened; however, its success at the Dublin Gate Theatre was not repeated in London and it closed on 30 July. A dark period of around three months followed before the theatre was transferred to the ownership of Delfont Mackintosh Limited and reopened in October 2005 with The Right Size's new production \"Ducktastic!\". Once again this failed to live up to expectations and closed just three weeks after opening on 19 November 2005. A short Christmas season of Patrick Stewart's one-man version of Charles Dickens' \"A Christmas Carol\" played from 6 to 31 December 2005, before the theatre hosted the Edinburgh International Festival hit drama \"Blackbird\" starring Roger Allam. The award-winning play Enron (directed by Rupert Goold, starring Samuel West and Tim Pigott-Smith) transferred here after a sellout run at the Royal Court. The European premiere of the Broadway hit, \"Avenue Q\", started previewing on 2 June 2006 and had its opening night on 28 June 2006, finally closing on 28 March 2009 prior to transferring to the Gielgud Theatre.\n\nFollowing a production of \"Deathtrap\", directed by Matthew Warchus and starring Simon Russell Beale and Jonathan Groff, the theatre became the home of jukebox musical \"Million Dollar Quartet\" in February 2011.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4854157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4854157", "title": "Pat Day Mile Stakes", "text": "Pat Day Mile Stakes\n\nThe Pat Day Mile Stakes is an American Grade 3 Thoroughbred horse race held on Kentucky Derby day run at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky for three-year-olds willing to race one mile on the dirt. \nThe current purse is $250,000 for the event.\n\nOriginally, the event was known as the Derby Trial Stakes and was held one week before the Kentucky Derby. It was first run in 1924 and every year since, with the exception of 1928.\n\nThe race name was given similar to races in Britain which preceded the Epsom Derby such as\nthe Investec Derby Trial (now Blue Riband Trial Stakes and Lingfield Derby Trial and in Australia, the Geelong Derby Trail Stakes (now known as the \"Geelong Classic\").\n\nIn 2015, this race was renamed to the Pat Day Mile Stakes (in honor of the Hall of Fame jockey, Pat Day) and moved to the undercard of Kentucky Derby day. Its purse was increased from $150,000 to $200,000. In 2016, the purse was raised to $250,000.\n\nFrom 2010 through 2012, it had been named the Cliff's Edge Derby Trial.\n\nThe distance was reduced between 1977 and 1981 to 7 furlongs. And once again the distance from 2007 to 2009 was furlongs. The Derby Trial Stakes was an ungraded event from 2006 to 2008.\n\nFour trainers have won the Derby Trial and the Kentucky Derby with the same horse. The feat was accomplished by Hanley Webb in 1924 with Black Gold and by Ben A. Jones who did it twice, first with the great Citation in 1948 and then with Hill Gail in 1952. Eddie Hayward won both in 1953 with Dark Star and in 1958 Jimmy Jones, son of Ben, became the fourth and last to do it when he won the two races with Tim Tam. Since Tim Tam, the gradual trend in training has been toward giving Derby contenders fewer prep races and more time between them. This practice has all but eliminated the Trial as a legitimate Derby prep race. Even the 1982 decision to move it from the Tuesday before the Derby to the Saturday before didn't help.\n\nHowever, the three weeks between the Trial and the 1 3/16ths-mile Preakness in Baltimore is perfect. In recent years, the Trial has sent the Preakness such horses as Key to the Mint (1972), No More Flowers (1987), Houston (1989), Honor Grades (1991), Alydeed (1992), Cherokee Run (1993), Numerous (1994), Our Gatsby (1995), Black Cash (1998), Patience Game (1999), Sir Shackleton (2004), Flying First Class (2007), Macho Again (2008), and Pleasant Prince (2010).\n\nAlthough none of those Trial horses won the Preakness, Alydeed, Cherokee Run and Macho Again finished second at Pimlico Race Course and Key to the Mint finished third. And two of trainer Woody Stephens' Trial winners Caveat in 1983 and Creme Fraiche in '85 went on to win the Belmont Stakes (GI). Additionally, the 2008 Belmont Stakes was won by Da'Tara, trained by Nick Zito, who finished in fifth place in the 2008 Derby Trial Stakes.\n\nCalumet Farm had three horses that finished second in the Trial. In 1941, Whirlaway finished second to Blue Pair in the Trial, but then roared back to win the Triple Crown. In 1949, Ponder was second to Olympia in the Trial, but came back five days later to take the Derby by three lengths over Capot.\n\nIn 1957, Middleground finished second in the Trial to Black George on a muddy track, but won the Kentucky Derby later on a fast track.\n\nAnd then there was the ill-fated Gen. Duke in 1957. He came to Churchill Downs touted as a potential superstar, but finished second to Federal Hill in the Trial. Then, the morning of the Derby, Gen. Duke was scratched because of a foot injury suffered in the Trial.\n\nIn 1967, Barb's Delight became the last Trial horse to have a significant impact on the Derby, finishing second by a length to longshot Proud Clarion. Don't Get Mad finished fourth in the Derby in 2005.\n\nThe last horse to win the Saturday before the Derby and then win the roses was Cannonade in 1974. But the race he won was the now-defunct 7f Stepping Stone Purse, not the Derby Trial.\n\nSeveral Kentucky Derby winners failed to win the Trial, but bounced back to win the \"Run for the Roses.\" Most notable of those were Calumet Farm's Iron Liege, who finished fifth in the Trial and returned to defeat a Kentucky Derby field that included champions Gallant Man, Round Table and Bold Ruler and is generally considered to be the greatest field in Derby history. King Ranch's Assault finished fourth in the Trial, but returned to win the Derby and sweep the Triple Crown. In 1941, Triple Crown winner Whirlaway finished second in the Derby Trial, but returned to sweep the Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3101091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3101091", "title": "Percy Toplis", "text": "Percy Toplis\n\nFrancis Percy Toplis (20 August 1896 – 6 June 1920) was a British criminal and imposter active during and after the First World War. Before the war he was imprisoned for attempted rape. During the war he served as a private in the Royal Army Medical Corps, but regularly posed as an officer while on leave, wearing a monocle. After the war he became notorious following the murder of a taxi driver and the wounding of a police officer who attempted to apprehend him. The manhunt was major news at the time. He was tracked down and killed in a gunfight with police.\n\nIn 1978 a book was published which claimed that he had a big part in the Étaples Mutiny from 9–12 September 1917, as \"The Monocled Mutineer\". The authors suggested that he was pursued by the political establishment in a vendetta and may have been innocent of the murder. The book was dramatised by the BBC in 1986 as \"The Monocled Mutineer\", creating considerable controversy.\n\nCritics say that there is no evidence he was present and official records show that Toplis's unit was en route to India during the Étaples mutiny. No evidence exists to show that Toplis was absent from his unit; neither is there evidence that Toplis ever went to India and may only have got as far as Malta. It is now believed highly unlikely that he returned to Europe in time to participate in the mutiny.\n\nToplis was born at Sanforth Street, Chesterfield, Derbyshire and christened on 25 September 1896 at Skegby. His parents, Herbert and Rejoice Elizabeth (née Webster), were unable to support him and he was raised by his grandparents.\n\nHe was educated at South Normanton Elementary School, where he was reportedly an unruly bully who was frequently caned. In March 1908, aged 11, he was birched for acquiring two suits using false pretences. His grandparents were no longer able to control him and the court released him to his aunt, Annie Webster. Toplis left school in 1910 aged 13, and became a blacksmith's apprentice at the Blackwell colliery, but after a poor attendance record and an argument with the pit manager he took to an itinerant life in Scotland. In 1911 he was sentenced to ten days imprisonment in Dumfries for the non-payment of two train tickets. He returned to England and in 1912, aged 15, he was sentenced to two years hard labour for the attempted rape of a 15-year-old girl at Mansfield, serving sentence in Lincoln Prison and was released in 1914.\n\nIn 1915, the year after the outbreak of the First World War, Toplis joined the Royal Army Medical Corps and served as a stretcher bearer, his first active duty being at Loos. His unit was shipped to the landings of Gallipoli, and when they returned, Toplis was hospitalised for dysentery. Afterwards he briefly worked in a munitions factory. His unit was later posted to Salonika and Egypt but he was sent back when he contracted malaria. In September 1917 his unit was shipped to Bombay for some months and then returned to Britain. Toplis made a public revisit to Blackwell posing in the uniform of a captain. The visit and some of his anecdotes were reported by the local newspaper, the \"Nottingham Evening Post\", who took a photograph (shown in this article) that they later released to the police for his 'wanted' notice in 1920.\n\nIn August 1918, Toplis's father died and soon afterwards he deserted from Blackpool. He was sentenced at Nottingham Assizes to two years in prison for fraud. When released in 1920, he joined the Royal Army Service Corps and was stationed at Bulford Camp. He was soon selling rationed fuel on the black market, forging false papers to steal other soldiers' salaries and wearing a colonel's uniform when he visited women in town. He often used a gold monocle as part of his disguise.\n\nToplis went AWOL again on 24 April 1920. After 9:00 p.m., taxi driver Sidney George Spicer was found dead from a gunshot wound on Thruxton Down, near Andover. Toplis was seen in Bulford Camp around 11:00 p.m. The inquest into George Spicer's death took place in a barn on Thruxton Down. The jury returned a verdict of 'wilful murder' by Percy Toplis, foreshadowing the possibility of his execution when caught; it was the first British inquest in modern times to declare a man guilty of murder in his absence. Toplis spent the next couple of weeks in London posing as an officer. The police began to close in and he fled to Monmouth, Wales and eventually to Tomintoul, Scotland. On 1 June a farmer near Tomintoul saw smoke in a bothy. He alerted Police Constable George Greig and together they found Toplis sitting by a fire. Toplis fired his pistol, wounding them both and then fled on a bicycle. He cycled to Aberdeen and took a train to Carlisle, where he arrived on 5 June. He was seen in an Army base in Carlisle Castle.\nOn 6 June, in Cumberland, Police Constable Alfred Fulton met and questioned a man in \"partial military dress\" but let him go. Back at the station, he checked police circulars and noticed that this man matched the description of a man suspected of the Andover murder. He went back to apprehend Toplis but retreated when Toplis threatened him with a Webley Mk VI revolver. Inspector William Ritchie and Sergeant Robert Bertram, joined Fulton armed with Webley revolvers and had also disguised their uniforms. It is believed that this may have been the result of orders from the Home Office to the Chief Constable Norman de Courcy-Parry. They set off by car to apprehend Toplis and were joined \"en route\" by the chief constable's civilian son, Norman de Courcy-Parry, Jr., on his 1000-cc motorcycle. Parry was armed with a Belgian automatic pistol, which he had brought back on his return from service during the war. They saw Toplis but did not recognise him until they had passed him and were some yards down the road. After quickly turning the car round, the group again approached Toplis. Norman de Courcy-Parry stopped the car, feigning mechanical trouble. He exited, pretending to check the trouble, as Toplis approached. The police officers then came out and challenged Toplis, who attempted to flee and fired at them. The officers ran towards him shooting and Toplis fell dead.\n\nAn inquest was held on 8 June and the next day, Toplis was buried in an unmarked grave near the top of Penrith's Beacon Edge Cemetery. Toplis's belongings, including his monocle, were handed to Penrith and Eden Museum, where they are on display. Despite plans by the Canadian Frank Dayson, a childhood friend of Toplis, to erect a headstone on the grave in 1980, as of 2017 Toplis's grave remains unmarked. In 2015 a plaque was unveiled to mark the spot where Toplis was shot dead.\n\nIn 1978 William Allison and John Fairley published \"The Monocled Mutineer\", in which they portray Percy Toplis as a leading participant in the Étaples Mutiny as a consequence of his being among a band of deserters based in that area of France. They say that Toplis was sought in France following the mutiny and posters for his arrest were issued. The fact that the British authorities went to such lengths to apprehend or silence Toplis is thought by Allison and Fairley to add credence to the view that he was one of the only leaders of the mutiny that escaped retribution.\n\nAfter the book was published, Toplis's supposed career as a mutineer was dramatised by Howard Barker in his 1980 play \"Crimes in Hot Countries\", in which he is portrayed as an irrepressibly subversive seducer, \"irresponsible and amoral, with little concern as to the consequences of his action for others\". The 1986 BBC series entitled \"The Monocled Mutineer\", an adaptation by Alan Bleasdale of the book in which Toplis was played by Paul McGann, portrayed him in a much more positive light. The production fuelled accusations by the Conservative government of the time of left-wing bias at the BBC. It was not only the right-wing press who denounced the accuracy of the series and the book on which it was based; the socialist historian Julian Putkowski, originally recruited as a historical advisor to the programme, also publicly criticised the 'factual errors and misinterpretations that occur in the series'. Putkowski pointed out that it was unlikely that Toplis played any part in the mutiny.\n\nArmy records show that Toplis's unit was en route to India during the Étaples mutiny. No evidence exists to show that Toplis was absent from his unit but neither is there evidence that Toplis arrived in India, as the last recorded reference to him places him in Malta. He was a deserter and regularly moved between units masquerading as an NCO or an officer to get food, win money from gambling and for accommodation. It is possible that information about any involvement by Percy Toplis in the mutiny by soldiers in the training camp known as The Bull Ring at Étaples will be made clearer in 2017 when the official files regarding the mutiny are scheduled to be released into the public domain by the National Archives but the records of the Étaples Board of Enquiry have long since been destroyed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9595202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9595202", "title": "Public holidays in Nicaragua", "text": "Public holidays in Nicaragua\n"}
{"id": "2596693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2596693", "title": "Richmal Oates-Whitehead", "text": "Richmal Oates-Whitehead\n\nRichmal Marie Oates-Whitehead (February 1970 – August 2005) was an employee of the British Medical Association. After the 7 July 2005 London bombings, she claimed to have tended to the attack victims as a doctor, though she did not have any medical qualifications. She was found dead shortly after coming to the attention of the press. Initially, it was suspected that she might have committed suicide, but it emerged later that she died of natural causes.\n\nOates-Whitehead was born and brought up in Gisborne. She suffered from epilepsy in her childhood. She displayed interest in becoming a physician or entering the medical profession right from her school days. Her school friends described her as a caring person. \nWhile she did not become a physician, she trained as a radiation therapist for a year in 1991, working on a study on prevention of blood coagulation. This included an internship at Auckland. She moved to London in 2001, and prior to her last employment with British Medical Association (BMA) as an editor of \"Clinical Evidence\" (an online journal of the British Medical Journal), she was with the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health in the role of clinical effectiveness coordinator. Immediately prior to her employment at the BMA she worked as a medical writer for \"Euro RSCG Medical Education\"; throughout her brief employment at this company she posed as a doctor.\n\nOates-Whitehead came to attention in the aftermath of the 7 July 2005 London bombings at Tavistock Square. She claimed to have been asked to help out by some firemen and that she did not hesitate for a moment.\n\nShe was widely hailed as a \"heroine\", after her accounts of treating the seriously injured were carried out by the press, especially in New Zealand. Subsequently, the New Zealand Herald, among others, researched her background and found that she was not a doctor, but an editor of a BMA publication, a job that did not require medical qualifications. \nThe media's suspicion was triggered by an account by Oates-Whitehead of how she heard a controlled explosion of another bomb by the police while she was busy tending to the victims. Scotland Yard's denial of such an explosion and the absence of her name on either of the UK or the New Zealand Medical Council registers of doctors strengthened the suspicions. Nor could the University of Auckland confirm that she was a graduate of the institution. Oates-Whitehead contested the newspaper's contention and threatened to sue it for defamation, but resigned from her post on health grounds when BMA announced an inquiry into her antecedents. The controlled explosion that Oates-Whitehead heard was later reported by others.\n\nAccording to the Richmond and Twickenham Times newspaper there was a controlled explosion of a suspect package on the bus: \n'Sergeant Graham Cross and his unit of five were trying to set up a cordon around the King's Cross bombing when the number 30 bus was blown up in Tavistock Square. \n\"We were only 100 metres away,\" Mr Cross said. \nTeam member PC Ashley Walker was looking at the bus as it exploded before his eyes. \nAs they ran closer, they saw \"people's body parts and lumps of flesh\", PC Walker remembers. One man's legs were trapped under a bench, while another mangled victim hanged with his head over the edge of the bombed top deck. \nThen they spotted a microwave box near a window. Another bomb? \nThey thought it was. \n\"But we had no choice, really,\" Mr Graham says. \"We had to go get people off the bus.\" \nA bomb disposal unit later blew up the package in a controlled explosion.' \nTestimony given at the Coroner's Inquest confirms the controlled explosion of the microwave oven:\n\nTranscript:\nQ. In relation to secondary devices, you were aware, I think, during your time at the scene, in relation to secondary devices, of the attendance of a Metropolitan Police explosives unit, explosives officer. Is that right?\nA. That's correct.\nQ. I think, to use the phrase that you did in your recent statement in which you went over your actions on the day itself, you noted that the box that you considered may have contained a secondary device—which would be the microwave oven, as it transpired to be — was neutralised by the explosives officer. There was a controlled explosion at one stage carried out by explosives officers that day. Was that subsequent—put it another way, was that something that occurred or that didn't occur while you were there?\nA. Sorry?\nQ. The question is probably poorly phrased. Were you aware of a controlled explosion?\nA. Yes.\nQ. -- or simply the attendance of explosives officers? \nA. I heard the controlled explosion, yes.\nQ. Right. I don't suppose you can provide a time for that, can you, or can you? \nA. After 30 minutes. That's my guess, I can't know.\nQ. All right. That's all I want to ask about that.\n\nFollowing apprehensions from her family members, the Police entered her flat in West London on 17 August and found her dead body. Initially it was believed that she might have committed suicide due to the possible media witch hunt and loss of her job. However, post-mortem reports suggested that she died of a pulmonary embolism. The Coroner’s office ruled out an inquest as the death was due to natural causes.\n\nNewspaper reports indicate that Oates-Whitehead seemed to suffer from some personality disorder. She always carried a stethoscope in her handbag despite not being a doctor; described herself as an epidemiologist or a professor in her correspondence and told others that she travelled to Iraq and Indonesia to provide medical assistance to the war victims and the tsunami victims respectively. \nHer claims also included being afflicted with cancer, being stalked, suffering a mini heart attack, references to a retired professor as partner and giving birth to premature twins who died within a day. A common thread of appeal for either admiration or sympathy seems to have run through her stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "7940009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7940009", "title": "SCCA ProRally", "text": "SCCA ProRally\n\nSCCA ProRally was an American rally racing series, run by the Sports Car Club of America from 1973 until 2004. The SCCA discontinued it for 2005, due to concerns about safety and insurance. It allowed Rally America to replace it, utilizing most of the same venues and existing infrastructure.\n\nRallies which were included on the SCCA ProRally calendar include:\n\nNOTE: The series was given the name \"SCCA Pro Rally Series\" in 1972. This name was used until 1998. In 1999 SCCA trademarked the term \"ProRally,\" which was used thereafter.\n\nChampionships were awarded to drivers and co-drivers based on finishes in several classes. An overall champion, based on overall finishes was also awarded. From 1998 until 2004 a separate championship was awarded to the best-placed 2 wheel drive team, regardless of class.\n"}
{"id": "53229563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53229563", "title": "SHIFT Business Festival", "text": "SHIFT Business Festival\n\nSHIFT is a two-day international business festival held every year in Turku, Finland, at the Turku Castle. It was first held on May 31 and June 1, 2016. The attendees included over 1,000 visitors, 80 partner companies, 150 startups, and over 20 investors. Around 100 volunteers were part of this event. SHIFT 2017 is slated to be held on May 31 and June 1, 2017.\n\nThe SHIFT is backed by companies and the city of Turku, as well as Turku Chamber of Commerce and The Federation of Finnish Enterprises, while the event itself is put together by local JCI members, start-up actives and students.\n\nThe 2016 SHIFT business festival had key speakers such as:\nThe business festival also featured performing artists such as:\n\nThe event is scheduled to be held in the Turku Castle, in Turku, Finland, on May 31, 2017 and June 1, 2017.\n\nNeil Harbisson, the avant-garde artist and cyborg activist, was announced as first of the speakers in the event. The other speakers are:\n\n"}
{"id": "58224517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58224517", "title": "September 2018 inter-Korean summit", "text": "September 2018 inter-Korean summit\n\nThe September 2018 inter-Korean summit was the third inter-Korean summit in 2018.\n\nOn 13 August, the Blue House announced that South Korea's President plans to attend the third inter-Korean summit with leader Kim Jong-un at Pyongyang in September as expected. The agenda would be finding the strategy of the breakthrough in its hampered talks with the U.S. and solution for the denuclearization on the Korean Peninsula. It was held for three days between September 18 and September 20.\n\nIt would be the fifth inter-Korean summit after the Korean War of 1950–1953. North Korea is currently soliciting economic cooperation and results from South Korea at the upcoming inter-Korean summit on September. North Korea's state media announced the agreement to hold the next inter-Korean summit in Pyongyang.\n\nIt was announced on August 31 that South Korean President Moon Jae-In will send a special delegation to North Korea on September 5 to hold more nuclear talks and set up the date for the summit. On September 5, 2018, South Korean National Security Advisor Chung Eui-yong, National Intelligence Service Director Suh Hoon and other delegates travelled to North Korea to hold a meeting with Kim Jong-un, where they arranged the summit and help rescue faltering nuclear diplomacy between the United States and North Korea. It was then announced that the three-day summit would take place between September 18 and September 20. South Korean officials have insisted that Kim Jong-un has set a proposed denuclearization timetable and is working with Trump to achieve this goal. \n\nThe summit began as scheduled on September 18. On the first day, Moon Jae-in and his wife Kim Jung-Sook arrived at Pyongyang's Sunan International Airport, where they got a rousing reception, which featured a marchpast by the guard of honor and the Central Military Band of the Korean Peoples Army. Kim Jong-un also greeted them and embraced Moon. Kim and Moon also arrived at the summit in the same car. Both also openly waved to an enthusiastic car parade.\n\nIn Pyongyang, an agreement titled the \"Pyongyang Joint Declaration of September 2018\" was signed by both Korean leaders The agreement calls for a military agreement, civilian exchanges and cooperation in many areas, and conditions to denuclearize North Korea. During this day, North Korean Defense Minister No Kwang Chol and South Korean Defense Minister Song Young-moo also signed a new Agreement on Reconciliation, Non-Aggression, Exchanges and Cooperation (aka \"Basic Agreement\") known as the \"Agreement on the Implementation of the Historic Panmunjom Declaration in the Military Domain\" (also called the Comprehensive Military Agreement, or CMA) to help ensure less military tension between both countries and greater arms control. The agreement calls for the removal of landmines, guard posts, weapons, and personnel in the JSA from both sides of the North-South Korean border. The agreement also called for the creation of joint military buffer zones.\n\nThe DPRK agreed to dismantle its nuclear complex in the presence of international experts if the U.S. takes correlative action. The DPRK also agreed to complete its dismantling of the Sohae Satellite Launching Station, which started in July 2018, and that the dismantling of Sohae's missile engine test site and launch pad would be observed by international experts as well.\n\nKim Jong-un also pledged to visit the South Korean capital of Seoul \"in the near future.\"\n\nIn front of a capacity crowd of 150,000, Moon delivered a speech at Pyongyang's May Day Stadium calling for cultural unity and reunification of both Koreas. Moon received a standing ovation and was the first ever South Korean leader to give a public address in North Korea. At the same stadium, Moon, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and their wives attended the mass games performance of \"The Glorious Country.\"\n\nThe leaders of the two Koreas visited Mount Paektu together. Moon traveled from Pyongyang by plane to Samjiyon Airport near Mount Paektu where Kim arrived first to greet him. They then rode vehicles to the mountain on the North Korean-Chinese border. The leaders also rode together in a cable car to reach Heaven Lake, located in a crater atop the mountain's sacred volcano area. Moon was the first South Korean President to visit Mount Baekdu. After reaching the lake, Kim, Moon, along with their wives, posed together in front of it for a picture. The mountain's volcano and Heaven Lake is considered to be the most sacred sites in Korean mythology and Kim's family has long identified themselves as the \"Mount Paektu bloodline.\" Before Moon returned to South Korea, a stone marker was dedicated during a tree planting ceremony in Pyongyang to commemorate his trip to North Korea. \n\nKim also shipped 2 tons of North Korean pine mushrooms, known locally as songyi, across the border before Moon returned as well. Moon press secretary Yoon Young-chan stated that the mushrooms would be given to 4,000 South Koreans who had family members in North Korea. Senior citizens in this group also had the privilege of eating 500 grams each before the Chuseok festival.\n\nChinese state media Xinhua greeted the decision of holding the next inter-Korea leaders' summit in Pyongyang. Xinhua expressed that the U.S. has had a vital impact on the \"Korean Peninsula issue\" and requested on Washington to play a more dynamic role in regional matters. Xinhua also viewed negatively the United States' North Korea policy with \"maximum pressure\" although Pyongyang has made efforts to \"shut down\" the Punggye-ri primary nuclear test site, return the remains of the U.S. soldiers from the Korean War, and stimulate negotiations between North and South. On September 19, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang praised the meeting, stating that it produced positive effects easing military tensions, promoting peace talks and the progressing denuclearization process.\n\nOn September 27, 2018, Kim honored a request Moon made during the summit and gave the South Korean leader two rare Pungsans, Korean hunting dogs, named Gomi and Songgang. On November 8, 2018, Moon's office declared the mushrooms safe to eat and were not affected by North Korea's history of nuclear testing On November 11, 2018, South Korea airlifted 200 tons of tangerines to North Korea from Jeju Island as a goodwill gesture for the mushrooms. On November 12, 2018, Gomi, the female Pungsan, gave birth to six \"peace gift\" puppies. When they were born, Moon tweeted \"As the pregnancy period of dogs is about two months, Gomi must have come to us pregnant,\" and that \"I hope inter-Korean affairs will be like this.\" On November 25, 2018, Moon presented photos of these \"peace gift\" puppies to the public.\n\nIt was announced that DPRK leader Kim Jong-un's visit to Seoul would occur in December 2018 based on the report from South Korea’s Yonhap news agency. \n\nMoon Jae-in at UN members requests world to acknowledge ‘positively’ to Kim Jong-un’s ‘new choices’ to inspire denuclearisation. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo earlier assembled with his North Korean counterpart Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho in New York and announced that it's very positive gathering with DPRK during UNGA (General Assembly) to discuss upcoming Trump-Kim summit & next steps toward denuclearization of North Korea. \n\nOn October 1, 2018, North and South Korean military engineers began a scheduled 20 day removal process of landmines and other explosives planted across the Joint Security Area of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). The Joint Security Area, located near the shared border village of Panmunjom, will also undergo major changes following the demining as well. It was also agreed that Arrowhead Hill would afterwards undergo demining by both North and South Korean forces and that they would also assist in searching for potential remains of missing soldiers. Around 800,000 landmines were planted along these two regions since the division of Korea. On October 19, 2018, after just 19 days of mine clearing operations by both sides, the United Nations Command announced that both North and South Korea had completed work to remove landmines from the Joint Security Area was now complete. \n\nBy October 25, 2018, demining had begun at Arrowhead Hill and resulted in the discovery of Korean War remains. Demining at Arrowhead Hill will continue until November 30, 2018. Five more sets of remains from the Korean were discovered at Arrowhead Hill on November 19, 2018. By this point in time, a total of nine sets of Korean War remains had been discovered at Arrowhead Hill Arrowhead Hill had previously been selected for both Koreas to conduct a pilot remains recovery project. A pilot inter-Korean Remains Recovery Project is another commitment which was made in the summit's Comprehensive Military Agreement. On November 22. 2018, a DMZ road was reconnected for the first time in 14 years in an effort to assist with both the demining and exhumation process.\nWork between both Koreas to remove landmines from Arrowhead Hill was completed on November 30, 2018.\n\nOnce the Joint Security Area is demined, the guard posts will cease to exist. The dismantling of Joint Security Area guard posts was complete on October 25. \n\nThe destruction of 20 guard posts located along the \"front lines\" of the Korean DMZ officially began on November 11, 2018.On November 15, 2018, destruction of two DMZ guard posts, one being located in South Korea and the other located in North Korea, was completed. Work was still ongoing to complete the destruction of other guard posts as well. On November 23, it was revealed that South Korea had slowly been destroying their guard posts with excavators. As destruction of the guard posts began, it was announced that both Koreas had amended the summit's Comprehensive Military Agreement and decided to preserve 2 of the 22 now demilitarized frontline guard posts. Both of the posts which were planned to be preserved are located on the opposite sides of the Korean border. \n\nOn November 20, 2018, North Korea, hoping to further ease tensions with South Korea, destroyed all of their 10 remaining \"frontline\" guard posts. The South Korean Defense Ministry released photos confirming this and also released a statement stating that North Korea had informed them about the plans to demolish them before it took place. This came in accordance with the earlier summit agreements. On November 30, 2018, both Koreas completed work to dismantle 10 of their \"frontline\" guard posts. However, the later agreement for each Korea to preserve one \"frontline\" post was upheld as well. The \"frontline\" guard post which was preserved on the North Korean side of the DMZ was visited by Kim Jong Un in 2013 when tensions were rising between both Koreas.\n\nThe Joint Security Area will no longer be armed with weapons of any kind after it is demined as well. Official disarmament of this area is complete on October 25. Removal of weapons from all of the DMZ's 22 \"frontline\" guard posts was complete on November 10, 2018 \"frontline\n\nAny military personnel, regardless of their country, who is stationed at the Joint Security Area on either side of the border will be forced to withdraw when demining is complete. On October 25, 2018, Personnel was replaced with 35 unarmed security guards. Withdrawal of military personnel from all of the DMZ's 22 \"frontline\" guard posts was complete on November 10, 2018.\n\nThe first meeting at the Inter-Korean Liaison Office occurred between delegates from both Koreas on October 22, 2018. The meeting concerned, among other things, forestry cooperation between both Koreas. Forest ecology cooperation was one of the commitments in the Pyongyang Declaration. A meeting later took place at the office between South Korean Vice Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism Roh Tae-kang and North Korean Vice-Minister of Physical Culture and Sports Won Kil U on November 2, 2018, talks at the office resulted in agreements for a unified Korean team at the 2020 Olympics and to hold the 2032 Summer Olympics in both Koreas. Another meeting was held on November 2, 2018 between South Korean Vice Unification Minister Chun Hae-sung and his North Korean counterpart, Jon Jong-su. Both men are co-heads of the office and each serve as liaison chief for their perspective country. Both Chun and Jon discussed cooperation in various joint-Korean projects. Following the meeting, it was reported that inter-Korean on-site railway inspections and a performance by a Pyongyang art troupe in Seoul were issues which remained unresolved.\n\nOn November 7, 2018, health officials from North and South Korea held talks at the Inter-Korean Liaison Office to discuss health care cooperation Greater cooperation between both countries in the field of health care was another one of the commitments in Pyongyang Declaration.\n\nOn October 4, 2018, Pyongyang allowed a South Korean delegation to participate in a joint celebration of the 11th anniversary of the October 4 Declaration. This event also commemorated the 100th anniversary of the March 1st Movement and was one of the commitments in the Pyongyang Declaration.\n\nOn October 23, 2018, Moon ratified both the Pyongyang Declaration and the CMA just hours after they were approved by his cabinet. Following the approval, it was acknowledged that the South Korean Constitution allows the President to approve treaties without consent from the National Assembly so long as they do not \"give huge financial burdens to the people.\"\n\nOn October 30, 2018, members of a South Korean ad hoc parliamentary special committee on inter-Korean economic cooperation held its first meeting and saw members of both the ruling and opposition parties agree to restore inter-Korean economic cooperation which has ceased for about 10 years and to normalize operations of the now-shuttered North Korean Kaesong Industrial Region and the suspended joint tour project on Mount Kumgang, also located in the North, when conditions are met. Joint economic zones in these two areas were also commitments of the Pyongyang Declaration.\n\nSome commitments of the Pyongyang Declaration which had been scheduled to be held in October 2018 were not upheld. Among them were a joint survey for a cross-border railway and sports and health meetings to bolster exchange in the respective areas. A Pyongyang art troupe also did not hold a scheduled performance in Seoul. The Pyongyang Declaration called for a Pyongyang art troupe to hold a performance in Seoul sometime in October 2018 as well.\n\nOn October 31, 2018, Kim Min-ki of the ruling Democratic Party issued a statement revealing that officials from South Korea's National Intelligence Service had observed several of North Korea's nuclear and missile test sites and that they were now ready for the upcoming international inspections. Kim also stated the now inactive Punggye-ri Nuclear Test Site and the Sohae Satellite launching ground were included in these observations. The visit by the intelligence officials was also meant to make preparations for the international experts to observe the dismantling of the North Korean nuclear and missile test sites as well. The international experts will also be allowed to witness the dismantling of other North Korean nuclear and missile test sites as well. Yongbyon, the last nuclear facility in North Korea which has yet to be closed, has also been inactive during the past year as well.\n\nOn November 1, 2018, officials from the South Korea's Ministry of Defense confirmed that buffer zones were established across the DMZ by the North and South Korean militaries. In compliance with Comprehensive Military Agreement, the buffer zones help ensure that both Koreas will ban hostility on land, sea and air. The buffer zones stretch from the north of Deokjeok Island to the south of Cho Island in the West Sea and the north of Sokcho city and south of Tongchon County in the East (Yellow) Sea. Both North and South Korea are prohibited from conducting live-fire artillery drills and regiment-level field maneuvering exercises or those by bigger units within 5 kilometers of the Military Demarcation Line (MDL). No-fly zones have also been established along the DMZ to ban the operation of drones, helicopters and other aircraft over an area up to 40 km away from the MDL. Both Koreas also established \"peace zones\" near their disputed Yellow Sea border. A buffer zone was also established in the Yellow Sea's Northern Limit Line (NLL).\n\nOn November 4, 2018, a 20-member team consisting of 10 people from North Korea and 10 people from South Korea began a joint inter-Korean survey which will lead to the development Joint Utilization Zones along the Han and River estuaries. The Zones will allow civilians to access the estuary for tourism, ecological protection and the collection of construction aggregate under the protection of militaries from both sides of the Korean border. The establish of this Joint Utilization Zone and a joint survey beforehand is one of the objectives of the Comprehensive Military Agreement On November 5, 2018, the councils of South Korea's Gangwon and Gyeonggi provinces, which border the DMZ, signed a “peace working agreement” at Dorasan Station in Paju, giving local approval to the Joint Utilization Zones.\n\nIn October 2018, both Koreas participated as a united team at the 2018 Asian Para Games. On October 4, 2018, it was announced that both Koreas would also participate as a unified team at the 2019 World Men's Handball Championship as well. On November 2, 2018, officials from both North and South Korea announced that their countries would participate at the 2020 Summer Olympics, held in Tokyo, Japan, as a unified team. The officials from both Koreas also announced that the letters they would send to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) regarding their bids for hosting the 2032 Summer Olympics would also consist of co-host bids so that the Olympic activities would take place in both nations if their bids were accepted as well. Participation as a united team in the 2020 Summer Olympics and other international games, as well as the bid for both Koreas to co-host 2032 Summer Olympic Games, were obligations which were agreed to in the Pyongyang Declaration. On November 26, 2018, the Unesco accepted a joint bid by North and South Korea and granted world cultural heritage status to Korean wrestling. The sport, which consists of traditional wrestling, is known in South Korea as Ssireum and in North Korea as Ssirum.\n\nOn October 14, 2018, North and South Korea, agreed to meet the summit's goal of restoring railway and road transportation which had been cut since the Korean War by either late November or early December 2018. On November 22, 2018, North and South Korea completed construction to connect a three kilometer road along the DMZ. This road, which crosses the MDL Korean land border, consists of 1.7 km in South Korea and 1.3 km in North Korea. The road was reconnected for the first time in 14 years in an effort to assist with a process at the DMZ's Arrowhead Hill involving the removal of landmines and exhumation of Korean War remains.\n\nOn November 24, 2018, it was announced that the UN Security Council had granted South Korea exemptions from sanctions so that both North and South Korea could finally conduct a planned inter-Korean railway survey. In November 2008, North Korea shut down the railroad link between North and South Korea. However, railroad transportation from South Korea to North Korea resumed again on November 30, 2018, when a South Korean train carrying railroad inspectors entered North Korea. The same day, 30 officials from North and South Korea began an 18-day survey in both Koreas to connect the Korean railroads. \n\nThe survey, which had previously been obstructed by the Korean Demilitarized Zone's (DMZ) \"frontline\" guard posts and landmines located at the DMZ's Arrowhead Hill, consists of a 400-kilometre (248-mile) railroad section between Kaesong and Sinuiju that cuts through the North's central region and northeastern coast. The inter-Korean survey, as well as the railroad ground-breaking ceremony which will follow to symbolize the opening of the new inter-Korean railroad in this area, were both objectives of the Pyongyang Agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1775350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775350", "title": "Sturgis Motorcycle Rally", "text": "Sturgis Motorcycle Rally\n\nThe Sturgis Motorcycle Rally is an American motorcycle rally held annually in Sturgis, South Dakota, for ten days usually during the first full week of August. In 2015 the city of Sturgis officially expanded the dates to have the rally start on the Friday before the first full week of August and end on the second Sunday. It was begun in 1938 by a group of Indian Motorcycle riders and was originally held for stunts and races. Attendance has historically been around 500,000 people, reaching a high of over 700,000 in 2015. The event generates around $800 million in revenue.\n\nThe first rally was held by Indian Motorcycle riders on August 14, 1938, by the Jackpine Gypsies motorcycle club. The club still owns and operates the tracks, hillclimb, and field areas where the rally is centered. The first event was called the \"Black Hills Classic\" and consisted of a single race with nine participants and a small audience. The founder is Clarence \"Pappy\" Hoel. He purchased an Indian motorcycle franchise in Sturgis in 1936 and formed the Jackpine Gypsies that same year. The Jackpine Gypsies were inducted to the Motorcycle Hall of Fame in 1997. Hoel was inducted into the AMA Hall of Fame the following year, in 1998.\n\nThe focus of a motorcycle rally was originally racing and stunts. In 1961, the rally was expanded to include the Hillclimb and Motocross races. This could include half-mile track racing (the first year in Sturgis, there were 19 participants), intentional board wall crashes, ramp jumps and head-on collisions with automobiles.\n\nThe Sturgis Rally has been held every year, with exceptions during World War II. For instance, in 1942, the event was not held due to gasoline rationing.\n\nThe South Dakota Department of Transportation provides official traffic counts, which sometimes differ from official attendance figures.\nFor many years the city has been in a licensing agreement with a community non-profit, Sturgis Motorcycle Rally, Inc., and its predecessor-in-interest, the Sturgis Area Chamber of Commerce, that generates millions of dollars in royalties and sponsorship dollars. In 2012 the City Council reaffirmed this relationship through a unanimous proclamation.\n\nThe City of Sturgis has calculated that the Rally brings over $800 million to South Dakota annually. The City of Sturgis earned almost $270,000 in 2011 from selling event guides and sponsorships. The rally makes up 95% of the city's annual revenue.\n\nThere were 405 individuals jailed at the 2004 rally, and approximately $250,000 worth of motorcycles stolen annually. Rally-goers are a mix of white-collar and blue-collar workers and are generally welcomed as an important source of income for Sturgis and surrounding areas. The rally turns local roads into \"parking lots\", and draws local law enforcement away from routine patrols. Furthermore, the large numbers of people visiting the town and region served as a model for the state of Oregon in preparation for the solar eclipse of August 21, 2017, given the expected impact on emergency services.\nThe Lakota Indian tribe in coalition with other tribes has protested the large amount of alcohol distributed at the event so close to the sacred Bear Butte, but also acknowledged that income from the event was important to the region and also benefits some members of the tribes.\n\nThere has been a number of mysterious, unsolved deaths at the Rally.\n\nMany attendees of the Sturgis Rally have families, bring their children and drive campers towing motorcycle trailers to the rally, and ride their motorcycles just the last few miles. The director of the rally estimated in 2005 that less than half the attendees actually rode there. Shipping companies transport thousands of motorcycles to Sturgis for attendees who arrive via airline.\n\nThe Black Hills Run is a route favored by motorcycle riders, across the Black Hills from Deadwood to Custer State Park, South Dakota. It reached the height of its popularity between 1939 and 1941. The popularity of the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally attracted additional attention to the route in recent years. The pine forested mountains of the Black Hills make for a unique scenic motorcycle ride.\n\nThe \"Rapid City Journal\" features daily coverage of the Sturgis Rally.\n\nThe \"Seattle Times\" covered some of the 2008 Sturgis Rally while rock band Judd Hoos was playing at the Loud American Roadhouse.\n\nIn 1997, the crew from the \"COPS\" television series attended the rally, as well as Dennis Rodman.\n\nFrom 1996 to 1999, World Championship Wrestling held a pay-per-view event called Road Wild (Hog Wild for the 1996 event).\n\nAnnual television coverage of the festival by the VH1 Classic network includes interviews and performances as well as rock music videos. The rally was featured in 2005 as part of the ESPN \"SportsCenter\" promotion \"50 States in 50 Days\".<ref name=\"50/50\"></ref>\n\nStarting in 2009 an American reality television series began airing on the truTV network: \"Full Throttle Saloon\", showing the inner operations at the world's largest biker bar just prior to the rally opening and for the duration of the rally each year.\n\nSturgis was also featured on \"American Pickers\" Season 4, Episode 6, \"What Happens In Sturgis...\". Originally aired January 2, 2012 on the History Channel. \". . .When Mike tells Frank let's pack up for a trip to South Dakota, Frank says he can't. He's secretly going to his 30th annual trip to the legendary Sturgis motorcycle rally, but says he'll cover the shop. . .\". Sturgis has also been featured in the TV Show Pawn Stars in which Richard Harrison, Corey Harrison visit Sturgis with Chumlee Russell on his birthday.\n\nThe Travel Channel has aired two one-hour (43 minutes runtime) documentaries about Sturgis:\n"}
{"id": "51251074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51251074", "title": "The Small One (book)", "text": "The Small One (book)\n\nThe Small One is a 1947 Christmas novelette written by Charles Tazewell and illustrated by Franklin Whitman about a young boy who has to sell his donkey named Small One. It was adapted into the Disney featurette in Christmas 1978.\n\nThe story starts with Padre who tells his boy Pablo about how donkeys aren't stubborn after Pablo is frustrated with the attitude of his donkey Cupido, who is doing nothing to work for him. So Padre tells the story that happened many miles from where they live in El Camino Del Notre Old Mexico. \n\nSmall One was an old donkey who belonged to a woodcutter, whose son was kinder to him. One day the boy's father tells him to sell Small One to the tanner as he feels there is no use for him, as he is too old to work. The boy insists not to take him to the tanner's, but his father tells him not to cry over a donkey. The boy realizes there's no use arguing, so he goes off to town to sell Small One, but doesn't tell his father that he will sell him elsewhere. The first place he sees is an auction, where the bidder is selling horses. The boy asks the bidder to sell his donkey, but the bidder refuses and he and the crowd make fun of Small One which upsets the boy; the boy then sets off to see who else would buy him.\n\nThe boy and Small One both feel hopeless by sundown, and decide to go to the tanner's after all. Just then, the boy meets a nice man, who asks him if he can buy Small One, as he and his wife have a long way to go and she isn't very well. The boy sells the man Small One for one piece of silver and hurries to the gates before the guards close it. The boy promises Small One that when he grows up, he will buy him again and keep him. The man explains to the guards at the gate that his name is Joseph, his wife's name is Mary and they are heading to Bethlehem, so they make their way into the distance. In the end the boy says his last goodbyes to his friend, and Small One, as told by Padre, made it all the way to Bethlehem with Joseph and Mary and saw the king being born;\ndespite how he was made fun of, he became part of the Christmas miracle. \n\nIn the end, Pablo and Padre listen, wondering whether it was a donkey's hooves or to the sound of the church bells rehearsing the chimes for Christmas morning, but only Cupido knew what it really was.\n\n"}
{"id": "9538091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9538091", "title": "Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms", "text": "Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\n\n\"Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\" was adapted as a live-action film directed by Kiyoshi Sasabe released in 2007, called Yunagi City, Sakura Country in English. It has also been adapted as a novel by Kei Kunii and as a radio drama produced in 2006.\n\nThe manga has received international praise for its simple but beautiful artwork and its quiet but \"humane\" anti-war message. It received the Grand Prize for manga at the 2004 Japan Media Arts Festival and the 2005 Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize Creative Award. Kumiko Aso won several acting awards for her portrayal of Minami Hirano, one of the two protagonists, in the film adaptation.\n\n\"Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\" comprises two stories, \"Town of Evening Calm\" and \"Country of Cherry Blossoms\".\n\nSet in Hiroshima in 1955, ten years after the atomic bomb was dropped, \"Town of Evening Calm\" is the story of a young woman, Minami Hirano, who survived the bomb when she was in her early teens. She lives with her mother, Fujimi, in a shanty-town near downtown, having lost her father and two sisters to the bomb; her younger brother, Asahi, was evacuated to Mito, Ibaraki, where he was adopted by his aunt. Fujimi is a seamstress while Minami, who is \"all thumbs\" as her mother puts it, works as a clerk in an office, and together they are saving money for the trip to Mito to visit Asahi.\n\nOne of her co-workers, Yutaka Uchikoshi, cares for Minami and visits her shanty when she misses work because her mother is sick. He later gives her a pair of sandals made by his mother and a handkerchief, but when he tries to kiss her, she has a flashback where she sees the victims of the bombing where they now stand and pushes him away. She runs off, still reliving the horrors of the attack, including finding her little sister's blackened body and watching her older sister die of radiation poisoning two months later. The next day at the office, she apologizes to Uchikoshi, saying she wants to somehow put the past behind her. She spends the day exhausted, however, and the next day becomes bedridden from the long-term effects of radiation poisoning. As Minami's condition worsens, she is visited by Uchikoshi and other co-workers, and dies just as her brother and aunt arrive.\n\n\"Country of Cherry Blossoms\" is a story in two parts. Part one is set in 1987 in Tokyo. At the start of fifth grade, Nanami Ishikawa, the daughter of Minami's brother Asahi (and thus second-generation atomic bomb victim), is a tomboy nicknamed \"Goemon\" by her classmates, to her disgust. At baseball practice, she gets a bloody nose after being hit by a ball, after which she skips practice to visit her brother Nagio in the hospital, where he is being treated for asthma. On the way, she meets her best friend and next-door neighbor, a feminine girl named Toko Tone, who loans her subway fare and accompanies her. In Nagio's hospital room, they toss cherry blossom petals that Nanami collected into the air, to give him the experience of spring that he's missing. Nanami is scolded by her grandmother for visiting Nagio when she's not supposed to. That summer, her grandmother, Asahi's mother, Fujimi, dies, and that fall Nanami loses touch with Toko after her family moves closer to Nagio's hospital.\n\nPart two takes place 17 years later, in 2004. Nanami, now working as an office lady, lives with her recently retired father. One day Nagio, who recently graduated from medical school, tells Nanami he ran into Toko as a nurse at the hospital where he is interning. Nanami tells him she's worried their father's going senile because he has started wandering off for a couple days at time without explanation. \n\nOne evening, Nanami follows Asahi as he leaves the apartment, and while she tails him runs into Toko and together they follow him onto an overnight bus to Hiroshima. In the morning, they follow as he visits several people before Toko leaves to visit the Peace Park. Asahi visits his family grave, then sits by the riverside, and while waiting Nanami discovers in the jacket of Toko's borrowed jacket a letter from Nagio to Toko, saying that her family asked him to stop seeing her as they believe his asthma is a result of the atomic bomb. \n\nIn a flashback, Asahi recalls the riverbank as a shantytown, then remembers meeting Kyoka Ota, a neighborhood girl his mother hired to help her after Minami died, when he returns to Hiroshima to start college. Asahi begins tutoring Kyoka because her teachers believe she is stupid due to the atomic bomb. When Toko finds Nanami by the river, Toko is upset to the point of illness by what she saw at the Peace Memorial Museum, and Nanami finds them a hotel room and cares for her, even though she has flashbacks to seeing her mother's last illness when she was a young child. In another flashback, Asahi proposes to a grown Kyoka, against his mother's wishes, as Kyoka was exposed to the bomb. \n\nOn the ride back to Tokyo, Nanami arranges for Nagio to meet her and Toko, then leaves them alone together. Asahi tells Nanami he visited Hiroshima for the 49th anniversary of Minami's death, and that Nanami resembles her.\n\nAccording to Fumiyo Kōno's afterword, she was prompted to write \"Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\" when her editor asked her for a Hiroshima story. She was initially reluctant because, while she was born in Hiroshima neither she nor anyone in her family was a survivor of the atomic bomb, and growing up she found the subject upsetting and had tried to avoid it ever since. She decided to tackle the subject because she felt it was \"unnatural and irresponsible for me to consciously try to avoid the issue.\" Living in Tokyo, she had come to realize that people outside of Hiroshima and Nagasaki didn't know about the effects of the bomb, not because they were avoiding the subject but because it is never talked about, and so she attempted the story because \"drawing something is better than drawing nothing at all.\"\n\nKōno described \"Country of Cherry Blossoms\" as \"what I most needed to hear two years ago, when I still avoided anything to do with the atomic bomb.\"\n\n\"Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\" was serialized in Japan by Futabasha in two parts in the \"seinen\" (aimed at younger adult men) manga magazine \"Weekly Manga Action\" in September 2003 and July 2004. The two serial numbers were collected in a \"tankōbon\" edition published on 12 October 2004 (). It was reprinted in a \"bunkoban\" edition on 8 April 2008 (). \n\nIt has been published in English by Last Gasp, in Korean by Munhak Segye Sa, in Traditional Chinese by Sharp Point Press, in French by Kana as \"Country of Cherry\" (), in Portuguese by Editora JBC as \"Hiroshima - A City of Calm\" (), in Spanish by Glènat España\n\nThe story was adapted as a 50-minute radio drama broadcast by NHK on 5 August 2006. It won the 2006 Agency for Cultural Affairs Art Festival Award in the Radio Division, and was shortlisted for the 2007 Prix Italia.\n\nThe drama was directed by Kenji Shindo and produced by Shinya Aoki, with the script adapted by Hirofumi Harada. Music was provided by Jun Nagao, and sounds were provided by Ai Sato. The three lead actors were Isao Natsuyagi, Tomoko Saito, and Kayu Suzuki. Kenji Anan was a supporting cast member.\n\n\n\nA novelization by , released in conjunction with the film adaption with a cover featuring the film's actors, was published by Futabasha on 3 July 2007 ().\n\n\"Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\" has been adapted into a live-action film directed by Kiyoshi Sasabe, which is called \"Yunagi City, Sakura Country\" in English. The outdoor sets were filmed in Kawaguchi, Saitama, including a recreation of part of the Hiroshima's shantytown c. 1958. The story of \"Country of Cherry Blossoms\", filmed in every place in Hiroshima. The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2007, then released in theaters in Japan on 28 July 2007. It was released on DVD in Japan on 28 March 2008. A soundtrack was also released.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe soundtrack of the film was released on 16 July 2007. It is composed by Takatsugu Muramatsu, with performances on the harp by Naori Uchida and harmonica by Masami Ohishi.\n\nThe story was praised by the award jury of the Japan Media Arts Festival for its brevity and its \"depiction of 'the dark shadow of war'\". According to Izumi Evers, one of the editors of the English edition, the Japanese edition created a sensation despite being little-promoted because it made readers want to talk about the bombing of Hiroshima, which is a controversial topic. The manga sold over 180,000 copies in Japan.\n\nThe simple artwork and story's \"light, ephemeral touch\" was praised by Dirk Deppey in \"The Comics Journal\", and \"PopCultureShock\" called the character designs \"slightly rough, clumsy\", which they consider makes the characters \"more human and more believable\" because they are \"more vulnerable, more imperfect, more fragile\". \"PopCultureShock\" also praised the background art, which \"bring[s] the streets of Hiroshima to vivid life\". \"Manga News\" described the apparently simplistic art as beautiful, which emphasizes the story's depth without ever going over-the-top or into excess morality. \"Comic World News\" called the story \"humane\" and \"profoundly moral\", and praised the characterization as being \"real\". \"Otaku USA\" described the scenes of daily life as \"welcoming\" and the art \"lovely\", saying the \"antiwar message is unspoken, and comes naturally from the desire not to see the characters die.\" A review at About.com described it as a \"deeply moving story\" that's \"told in whispers rather than screams,\" and praised Kōno for resisting \"the urge to pile on the melodrama\" and so conveying \"a deeply moving story.\" \"\" called the work \"a beautiful manga and an understated antiwar statement\", praising its \"dreamlike and evocative\" stories and its artwork, especially the \"lovely\" backgrounds.\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" named the English translation one of the best ten manga of 2007, calling it \"too important to pass up\" and comparing it to \"Barefoot Gen\", and \"New York Magazine\" named it one of the top five comics in English of 2007. The American Library Association placed the manga on its list of \"Great Graphic Novels for Teens 2008\". It was nominated for an Eisner Award in two categories, Best Short Story for \"Town of Evening Calm\" and Best U.S. Edition of International Material—Japan, but lost to \"Mr. Wonderful\" by Dan Clowes and \"Tekkonkinkreet\" respectively.\n\nAccording to Patrick Macias, an English editor of the manga, the film was \"kind of ignored\" at Cannes because of competition from other high-profile Japanese films. According to a review in \"Asia Pacific Arts\", during the sequence when the father returns to Hiroshima, the film shows \"an interaction\" of the past, present, and future, which is indicative of \"the slipperiness of memory\", a technique that \"makes more visible and effective the ongoing resonance of the past in the present\" but that \"rejects the politics of the bombing\" of the first part of the film. Kumiko Aso won several acting awards in Japan for her role as Minami Hirano.\n\nThe manga has won two awards, the 2004 Japan Media Arts Festival's Grand Prize for manga and the 2005 Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize's Creative Award.\n\nThe film won several awards, including the 17th Japanese Film Critics Award for Best Picture, placing sixth in the top ten films list of the 3rd Osaka Cinema Festival, and placing ninth in the top ten domestic films list of 2007 by \"Kinema Junpo\". The Blue Ribbon Awards also named the film one of the top ten films of the year. Kumiko Aso won several \"Best Actress\" awards for her portrayal of Minami Hirano in the film, including that of the 32nd Hochi Film Awards, the 62nd Mainichi Film Awards, and the 50th Blue Ribbon Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "30244044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30244044", "title": "Tunisian Revolution", "text": "Tunisian Revolution\n\nThe Tunisian Revolution was an intensive campaign of civil resistance, including a series of street demonstrations taking place in Tunisia, and led to the ousting of longtime president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011. It eventually led to a thorough democratization of the country and to free and democratic elections.\n\nThe demonstrations were caused by high unemployment, food inflation, corruption, a lack of political freedoms like freedom of speech and poor living conditions. The protests constituted the most dramatic wave of social and political unrest in Tunisia in three decades and resulted in scores of deaths and injuries, most of which were the result of action by police and security forces against demonstrators.\n\nThe protests were sparked by the self-immolation of Mohamed Bouazizi on 17 December 2010 and led to the ousting of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali 28 days later on 14 January 2011, when he officially resigned after fleeing to Saudi Arabia, ending 23 years in power. Labour unions were an integral part of the protests. The Tunisian National Dialogue Quartet was awarded the 2015 Nobel Peace Prize for \"its decisive contribution to the building of a pluralistic democracy in Tunisia in the wake of the Tunisian Revolution of 2011\". The protests inspired similar actions throughout the Arab world, known as the Arab Spring.\n\nIn Tunisia and the wider Arab world, the protests and change in government are called the Revolution or sometimes the Sidi Bouzid Revolt, derived from Sidi Bouzid, the city where the initial protests began. In the Western media, these events have been dubbed the Jasmine Revolution or Jasmine Spring after Tunisia's national flower and in keeping with the geopolitical nomenclature of \"color revolutions\". The name \"Jasmine Revolution\" originated from American journalist Andy Carvin, but it was not widely adopted in Tunisia itself. In fact, the debate surrounding the name and the poetic influences behind the Tunisian revolution was a popular question among Tunisian intellectuals themselves as seen in the following article: Tunisia's revolution of dignity and freedom cannot be color-coded. The name adopted in Tunisia was the Dignity Revolution, which is a translation of the Tunisian Arabic name for the revolution (\"\"). Within Tunisia, Ben Ali's rise to power in 1987 was also known as the Jasmine Revolution.\n\nPresident Zine El Abidine Ben Ali had ruled Tunisia since 1987, mostly as a one-party state with the Democratic Constitutional Rally (known as the RCD) in power. His government was characterized by the development of Tunisia's private sector in favor of foreign investment, and the repression of political opposition. Foreign media and NGOs criticized his government, which was supported by the United States and France. As a result, the initial reactions to Ben Ali's abuses by the U.S. and France were muted, and most instances of socio-political protest in the country, when they occurred at all, rarely made major news headlines.\n\nRiots in Tunisia were rare and noteworthy, especially since the country is generally considered to be wealthy and stable as compared to other countries in the region. Any form of protests in the country were previously successfully repressed and kept silent by the former regime and protesters would be jailed for such actions, as were for example protests by hundreds of unemployed demonstrators in Redeyef in 2008. \"Al Jazeera English\" also said that Tunisian activists are amongst the most outspoken in its part of the world with various messages of support being posted on \"Twitter\" for Bouazizi. An op-ed article in the same network said of the action that it was \"suicidal protests of despair by Tunisia's youth.\" It pointed out that the state-controlled National Solidarity Fund and the National Employment Fund had traditionally subsidized many goods and services in the country but had started to shift the \"burden of providence from state to society\" to be funded by the \"bidonvilles\", or shanty towns, around the richer towns and suburbs. It also cited the \"marginalisation of the agrarian and arid central and southern areas [that] continue[s] unabated.\" The protests were also called an \"uprising\" because of \"a lethal combination of poverty, unemployment and political repression: three characteristics of most Arab societies.\"\n\nTwenty-six-year-old Mohamed Bouazizi had been the sole income earner in his extended family of eight. He operated a vegetable or apple cart (the contents of the cart are disputed) for seven years in Sidi Bouzid 190 miles (300 km) south of Tunis. On 17 December 2010, a female officer confiscated his cart and produce. Bouazizi, who had had such an event happen to him before, tried to pay the 10-dinar fine (a day's wages, equivalent to 7USD). In response the policewoman \ninsulted his deceased father and slapped him. The officer, Faida Hamdi, stated that she was not even a policewoman, but a city employee who had been tasked that morning with confiscating produce from vendors without licenses. When she tried to do so with Bouazizi a scuffle ensued. Hamdi says she called the police who then beat Bouazizi. A humiliated Bouazizi then went to the provincial headquarters in an attempt to complain to local municipality officials and to have his produce returned. He was refused an audience. Without alerting his family, at 11:30 am and within an hour of the initial confrontation, Bouazizi returned to the headquarters, doused himself with a flammable liquid and set himself on fire. Public outrage quickly grew over the incident, leading to protests. This immolation and the subsequent heavy-handed response by the police to peaceful marchers caused riots the next day in Sidi Bouzid that went largely unnoticed, although social media sites such as Facebook and YouTube featured images of police dispersing youths who attacked shop windows and damaged cars. Bouazizi was subsequently transferred to a hospital near Tunis. In an attempt to quell the unrest President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali visited Bouazizi in hospital on 28 December 2010. Bouazizi died on 4 January 2011.\n\nOn 28 November 2010, WikiLeaks and five major newspapers (Spain's \"El País\", France's \"Le Monde\", Germany's \"Der Spiegel\", the United Kingdom's \"The Guardian\", and the United States' \"The New York Times\") simultaneously published the first 220 of 251,287 leaked documents labeled confidential. These included descriptions of corruption and repression by the Tunisian regime. It is widely believed that the information in the WikiLeaks documents contributed to the protests, which began a few weeks later.\n\nThere were reports of police obstructing demonstrators and using tear gas on hundreds of young protesters in Sidi Bouzid in mid-December 2010. The protesters had gathered outside regional government headquarters to demonstrate against the treatment of Mohamed Bouazizi. Coverage of events was limited by Tunisian media. On , extra police were present on the streets of the city.\n\nOn 22 December, Lahseen Naji, a protester, responded to \"hunger and joblessness\" by electrocuting himself after climbing an electricity pylon. Ramzi Al-Abboudi also killed himself because of financial difficulties arising from a business debt by the country's micro-credit solidarity programme. On , Mohamed Ammari was fatally shot in the chest by police in Bouziane. Other protesters were also injured, including Chawki Belhoussine El Hadri, who died later on . Police claimed they shot the demonstrators in \"self-defence.\" A \"quasi-curfew\" was then imposed on the city by police. Rapper El Général, whose songs had been adopted by protesters, was arrested on 24 December but released several days later after \"an enormous public reaction\".\n\nViolence later increased as Tunisian authorities and residents of Sidi Bouzid Governorate encountered each other once again. The protests had reached the capital Tunis on with about 1,000 citizens expressing solidarity with residents of Sidi Bouzid and calling for jobs. The rally, which was called by independent trade union activists, was stopped by security forces. The protests also spread to Sousse, Sfax and Meknassy. The following day the Tunisian Federation of Labour Unions held another rally in Gafsa which was also blocked by security forces. At the same time about 300 lawyers held a rally near the government's palace in Tunis. Protests continued again on the .\n\nOn 30 December, police peacefully broke up a protest in Monastir while using force to disrupt further demonstrations in Sbikha and Chebba. Momentum appeared to continue with the protests on and further demonstrations and public gatherings by lawyers in Tunis and other cities following a call by the Tunisian National Lawyers Order. Mokhtar Trifi, president of the Tunisian Human Rights League (LTDH), said that lawyers across Tunisia had been \"savagely beaten.\" There were also unconfirmed reports of another man attempting to commit suicide in El Hamma.\n\nOn 3 January 2011, protests in Thala over unemployment and a high cost of living turned violent. At a demonstration of 250 people, mostly students, in support of the protesters in Sidi Bouzid, police fired tear gas; one canister landed in a local mosque. In response, the protesters were reported to have set fire to tyres and attacked the office of Constitutional Democratic Rally. Some of the more general protests sought changes in the government's online censorship, where a lot of the media images have been broadcast. Tunisian authorities also allegedly carried out phishing operations to take control of user passwords and check online criticism. Both state and non-state websites had been hacked.\n\nOn 6 January 95% of Tunisia's 8,000 lawyers went on strike, according to the chairman of the national bar association. He said \"The strike carries a clear message that we do not accept unjustified attacks on lawyers. We want to strongly protest against the beating of lawyers in the past few days.\" It was reported on the following day that teachers had also joined the strike.\n\nIn response to 11 January protests police used riot gear to disperse protesters ransacking buildings, burning tires, setting fire to a bus and burning two cars in the working class suburb of Ettadhamen-Mnihla in Tunis. The protesters were said to have chanted \"We are not afraid, we are not afraid, we are afraid only of God.\" Military personnel were also deployed in many cities around the country.\n\nOn 12 January, a reporter from the Italian state-owned television broadcaster \"RAI\" stated that he and his cameraman were beaten with batons by police during a riot in Tunis' central district and that the officers then confiscated their camera. A night time curfew was also ordered in Tunis after protests and clashes with police.\n\nHizb ut-Tahrir also organised protests after Friday prayer on 14 January to call for re-establishing the Islamic caliphate. A day later, it also organised other protests that went to the 9 April Prison to free political prisoners.\n\nAlso on 14 January (the same day that Ben Ali fled), Lucas Dolega, a photojournalist working for European Pressphoto Agency, was hit in the forehead by a tear gas canister allegedly fired by the police at short range; he died two days later.\n\nDuring a national television broadcast on , President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali criticized people for their protests calling the perpetrators \"extremists and mercenaries\" and warned of \"firm\" punishment. He also accused \"certain foreign television channels of broadcasting false allegations without verification, based on dramatization, fermentation and deformation by media hostile to Tunisia.\" His remarks were ignored and the protests continued.\n\nOn 29 December, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali shuffled his cabinet to remove his communications minister Oussama Romdhani, while also announcing changes to the trade and handicrafts, religious affairs, communication and youth portfolios. The next day he also announced the dismissal of the governors of Sidi Bouzid, Jendouba and Zaghouan.\n\nIn January 2011, Ben Ali said 300,000 new jobs would be created, though he did not clarify what that meant. However, he also described the protests as \"the work of masked gangs that attacked at night government buildings and even civilians inside their homes in a terrorist act that cannot be overlooked.\" Ahmed Najib Chebbi, the leader of the Progressive Democratic Party, then said that despite official claims of police firing in self-defense \"the demonstrations were non-violent and the youths were claiming their rights to jobs\" and that \"the funeral processions [for those killed on 9 January] turned into demonstrations, and the police fired [at] the youths who were at these ... processions.\" He then criticised Ben Ali's comments as the protesters were \"claiming their civil rights, and there is no terrorist act...no religious slogans,\" while accusing Ben Ali of \"looking for scapegoats.\" He further criticised the additional jobs offered as mere \"promises.\"\n\nSeveral webloggers and the rapper Hamada Ben Amor, better known by his stage name El Général, were arrested, but the rapper and some of the bloggers were later released. Reporters Without Borders said the arrest of at least six bloggers and activists, who had either been arrested or had disappeared across Tunisia, was brought to their attention and that there were \"probably\" others. Tunisian Pirate Party activists Slah Eddine Kchouk, Slim Amamou (later released, and eventually appointed Secretary of State for Sport and Youth by the incoming government) and Azyz Amamy were arrested but later released. Hamma Hammami, the leader of the banned Tunisian Workers' Communist Party and a prominent critic of Ben Ali, was arrested on 12 January, though he was released two days later.\n\nOn 10 January, the government announced the indefinite closure of all schools and universities in order to quell the unrest. Days before departing office, Ben Ali announced that he would not change the present constitution, which was read as, in effect, promising to step down in 2014 due to his age.\n\nOn 14 January, Ben Ali dissolved his government and declared a state of emergency. Officials said the reason for the emergency declaration was to protect Tunisians and their property. People were also barred from gathering in groups of more than three, otherwise courting arrest or being shot if they tried to run away. Ben Ali also called for an election within six months to defuse demonstrations aimed at forcing him out. \"France24\" also said the military took control of the airport and closed the country's airspace.\n\nOn the same day, Ben Ali fled the country for Malta under Libyan protection and landed in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, after France rejected a request for the plane to land on its territory. Saudi Arabia cited \"exceptional circumstances\" for their heavily criticised decision to give him asylum saying it was also \"in support of the security and stability of their country.\" The Saudi decision was \"not out of sympathy\" for Ben Ali (who had long fought against Islamists in Tunisia). Saudi Arabia demanded Ben Ali remain \"out of politics\" as a condition for accepting him.\n\nFollowing Ben Ali's departure from the country, a state of emergency was declared. Army Commander Rashid Ammar pledged to \"protect the revolution.\" Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi then briefly took over as acting President. On the morning of 15 January, Tunisian state TV announced that Ben Ali had officially resigned his position and Ghannouchi had handed over the Presidency to parliamentary speaker Fouad Mebazaa, with Ghannouchi returning to his previous position as Prime Minister. This was done after the head of Tunisia's Constitutional Court, Fethi Abdennadher, declared that Ghannouchi did not have right to power, and confirmed Fouad Mebazaa as acting President under Article 57 of the Constitution. Mebazaa was given 60 days to organise new elections. Mebazaa said it was in the country's best interest to form a National Unity government.\n\nINTERPOL confirmed that its National Central Bureau (NCB) in Tunis had issued a global alert via INTERPOL's international network to seek the location of and arrest former Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and six of his relatives.\n\nA commission to reform the constitution and current law in general was set up under Yadh Ben Achour. There were also calls by the opposition to delay the elections and hold them in six or seven months and with international supervision.\n\nFollowing Ben Ali's departure, violence and looting continued and the national army was reported to be extensively deployed in Tunisia. The identity of the perpetrators has not been determined. A high official of the Tunisian military, however, also stated that elements loyal to former President Ben Ali have deployed across the country. The capital's main train station was also torched.\n\nA prison director in Mahdia freed about 1,000 inmates following a prison rebellion that left 5 people dead. Many other prisons also had jail breaks or raids from external groups to force prisoner releases, some suspected to be aided by prison guards. Residents who were running out of necessary food supplies had armed themselves and barricaded their homes, even to the extent of having formed armed neighbourhood watches. Al Jazeera<nowiki>'</nowiki>s correspondent said there were apparently three different armed groups: the police (250,000 people of the country's population were supposedly part of the police force), security forces from the Interior Ministry, and irregular militias supportive of Ben Ali who were vying for control.\n\nGun battles took place near the Presidential Palace between the Tunisian army and elements of security organs loyal to the former regime after Ali Seriati, head of presidential security, was arrested and accused of threatening state security by fomenting violence. The Tunisian army was reportedly struggling to assert control. Gunfire continued in Tunis and Carthage as security services struggled to maintain law and order.\n\nThe most immediate result of the protests was seen in increased internet freedoms. While commentators were divided about the extent to which the internet contributed to the ousting of Ben Ali from power, Facebook remained accessible to roughly 20% of the population throughout the crisis whilst its passwords were hacked by a country-wide man-in-the-middle attack, YouTube and DailyMotion became available after Ben Ali's ouster, and the \"Tor\" anonymity network reported a surge of traffic from Tunisia.\n\n\nAs a date was announced for an election in mid-July 2011, more than 100,000 protesters continued to demand the removal of Ghannouchi as interim prime minister.\n\n\nPrime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi's government asked Saudi Arabia to extradite Ben Ali saying that \"following a new batch of charges against the ousted president regarding his involvement in several serious crimes aimed at perpetrating and inciting voluntary homicide and sowing discord between the citizens of the same country by pushing them to kill one another.\" Reports emerged on 18 February 2011 that Ben Ali had had a stroke and was gravely ill. Plans for a general amnesty were also announced on that day.\n\nIn mid-February 2011, about 4,000 mostly Tunisian refugees landed on the Italian island of Lampedusa, causing the authorities to declare a state of emergency that would allow for federal aid to the island. Interior Minister Roberto Maroni accused the EU of not doing enough to curb immigration and asked them to do more. He said that the \"Tunisian system was 'collapsing'\" and that he would \"ask the Tunisian Foreign Ministry for permission for our authorities to intervene to stop the flow in Tunisia,\" suggesting Italian troops would be on Tunisian soil. He called the event a \"biblical exodus.\" The comments started a row between the two countries with the Tunisian Foreign Ministry saying it was ready to work with Italy and others but that it \"categorically rejects any interference in its internal affairs or any infringement of its sovereignty.\" In response, Italy's Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said that both countries share a \"common interest\" to halt the immigration, while he also offered \"logistical help in terms of police and equipment. Until now the system of patrolling the coasts of Northern Africa has worked and we want to re-establish the technique, which had reduced illegal immigration to zero until a month ago.\" Tunisia then said that it had troops patrolling southern fishing ports and that checkpoints had been erected in coastal towns. By 14 February, at least 2,000 refugees had been sent to Sicily with the other 2,000 quarantined at a re-opened holding centre. On 2 March about 350 more people arrived on the island. In response Italy declared a humanitarian emergency.\n\nThe International Organisation for Migration said that no new boats had been spotted. The EU's Catherine Ashton was on a visit to Tunisia to discuss the issue. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that \"not everyone who does not want to be in Tunisia can come to Europe. Rather, we need to talk to each other how we can strengthen the rule of law in Tunisia again and whether Europe can be of help.\"\n\nThe national stock market, the TUNINDEX, fell on 12 January for a three consecutive day loss of 9.3%. Following the curfew in Tunis, the market index again fell 3.8% as the cost of protecting against a sovereign default in credit default swaps rose to its highest level in almost two years.\n\nFollowing Ghanoucchi and two other Ben Ali-era ministers resigning, the bourse was again suspended.\n\nMany governments and supranational organisations expressed concerns over use of force against protesters. France, the former colonial power of Tunisia, was one of just a few states that expressed strong support for the Ben Ali government prior to its ouster, though protests were held in solidarity with Tunisia in several French cities and the French Socialist Party voiced support for the popular revolution.\n\nThe protests and resultant political crisis have generally been called the \"Jasmine revolution\"' only in the foreign media. Tunisian philosopher Youssef Seddik deemed the term inappropriate because the violence that accompanied the event was \"perhaps as deep as Bastille Day,\" and although the term was coined by the Tunisian journalist Zied El Hani, who first used it on his blog on 13 January and initially spread via social media such as Facebook (hence \"Revolution Facebook\" amongst the youth of Tunisia), it is not in widespread use in Tunisia itself.\n\nThe lack of coverage in the domestic state-controlled media was criticised. Writer/activist Jillian York alleged that the mainstream media, particularly in the Western world, was providing less coverage and less sympathetic coverage to the Tunisia protests relative to Iranian protests and the Green movement and China's censorship. York alleged the \"US government—which intervened heavily in Iran, approving circumvention technology for export and famously asking Twitter to halt updates during a critical time period—has not made any public overtures toward Tunisia at this time.\"\n\nDespite criticism about the \"sparse\" level of coverage and \"little interest\" given to the demonstrations by the international media, the protests were hailed by some commentators as \"momentous events\" in Tunisian history. Brian Whitaker, writing in \"The Guardian\", suggested on 28 December 2010, that the protests would be enough to bring an end to Ben Ali's presidency and noted similarities with the protests that led to the end of Nicolae Ceauşescu's reign in Romania in 1989, although Steven Cook, writing for the Council of Foreign Relations, notes that a tipping point is only obvious after the fact, and points to the counter-example of the 2009-2010 Iranian election protests. Ben Ali's governing strategy was nevertheless regarded as in serious trouble, and Elliot Abrams noted both that demonstrators were able for the first time at the end of 2010 to defy the security forces and that the regime had no obvious successors outside of Ben Ali's own family.\nThe French management of the crisis came under severe criticism with notable silence in the mainstream media in the run-up to the crisis with its former protectorate with which it maintained friendly relations.\n\n\"Al Jazeera\" believed the ousting of the president meant the \"glass ceiling of fear has been for ever shattered in Tunisia and that the police state that Ben Ali created in 1987 when he came to power in a coup seems to be disintegrating\", though it added that Ben Ali's resignation, following his statement that he had been \"duped by his entourage\" may not entirely be sincere. \"Le Monde\" criticised French President Nicolas Sarkozy and the European Union's \"Silence over the Tragedy\" when the unrest broke. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" suggested that mobile telecommunications played an influential role in the \"revolution.\"\n\nThe revolt in Tunisia began speculation that the Tunisian Jasmine Revolution would lead to protests against the multiple other autocratic regimes across the Arab world. This was most famously captured in the phrase asking whether \"Tunisia is the Arab Gdańsk?\". The allusion refers to the Polish Solidarity movement and Gdańsk's role as the birthplace of the movement that ousted Communism in Eastern Europe. The phrase appeared in outlets such as the BBC, as well as editorials by well known columnists Rami Khouri and Roger Cohen.\n\nLarbi Sadiki suggested that although \"conventional wisdom has it that 'terror' in the Arab world is monopolised by al-Qaeda in its various incarnations\", there was also the fact that \"regimes in countries like Tunisia and Algeria have been arming and training security apparatuses to fight Osama bin Laden [but] were [still] caught unawares by the 'bin Laden within': the terror of marginalisation for the millions of educated youth who make up a large portion of the region's population. The winds of uncertainty blowing in the Arab west – the Maghreb – threaten to blow eastwards towards the Levant as the marginalised issue the fatalistic scream of despair to be given freedom and bread or death.\" A similar opinion by Lamis Ardoni carried by Al Jazeera said that the protests had \"brought down the walls of fear, erected by repression and marginalisation, thus restoring the Arab peoples' faith in their ability to demand social justice and end tyranny.\" He also said that the protests that succeeded in toppling the leadership should serve as a \"warning to all leaders, whether supported by international or regional powers, that they are no longer immune to popular outcries of fury\" even though Tunisia's ostensible change \"could still be contained or confiscated by the country's ruling elite, which is desperately clinging to power.\" He called the protests the \"Tunisian intifada\" which had \"placed the Arab world at a crossroads.\" He further added that if the change was ultimately successful in Tunisia it could \"push the door wide open to freedom in Arab word . If it suffers a setback we shall witness unprecedented repression by rulers struggling to maintain their absolute grip on power. Either way, a system that combined a starkly unequal distribution of wealth with the denial of freedoms has collapsed.\"\n\nSimilarly, Mark LeVine noted that the events in Tunisia could spiral into the rest of the Arab world as the movement was \"inspiring people...to take to the streets and warn their own sclerotic and autocratic leaders that they could soon face a similar fate.\" He then cited solidarity protests in Egypt where protesters chanted \"Kefaya\" and \"We are next, we are next, Ben Ali tell Mubarak he is next;\" and that Arab bloggers were supporting the movement in Tunisia as \"the African revolution commencing...the global anti-capitalist revolution.\" He pointed to an article in \"al-Nahar\" that talked of an \"inhuman globalisation\" that had been imposed on the Arab world, however a \"human\" nationalism had not taken place. LeVine then accused the Obama administration in the United States of double standards when Clinton was in the region meeting with political and civil society leaders; however, she responded to a question about the protests, saying \"We can't take sides\", which was read as a failure to seize the \"reins of history\" and \"usher in a new era\" to \"defeat the forces of extremism\" without the violent conflict in the Afghanistan-Pakistan area. Pointing out Clinton's remarks about regimes whose \"foundations are sinking into the sand\" and needed \"reform\", LeVine argued that US foreign policy in the Middle East and the Muslim world was \"equally in danger of sinking into the sands if the President and his senior officials are not willing to get ahead of history's suddenly accelerating curve.\" He added, \"It is the US and Europe, as much as the leaders of the region, who in Clinton's words are in need of 'a real vision for that future.'\" Finally he said there were two scenarios that could play out: \"a greater democratic opening across the Arab world,\" or a similar situation to Algeria in the early 1990s when the democratic election was annulled and Algeria went into a civil war.\n\nRobert Fisk asked if this was \"The end of the age of dictators in the Arab world?\" and partly answered the question in saying that Arab leaders would be \"shaking in their boots\". He also pointed out that the \"despot\" Ben Ali sought refuge in the same place as the ousted Idi Amin of Uganda and that \"the French and the Germans and the Brits, dare we mention this, always praised the dictator for being a 'friend' of civilised Europe, keeping a firm hand on all those Islamists.\" He notably pointed at the \"demographic explosion of youth\" of the Maghreb, though he said that the change brought about in Tunisia may not last. He thinks \"this is going to be the same old story. Yes, we would like a democracy in Tunisia – but not too much democracy. Remember how we wanted Algeria to have a democracy back in the early Nineties? Then when it looked like the Islamists might win the second round of voting, we supported its military-backed government in suspending elections and crushing the Islamists and initiating a civil war in which 150,000 died. No, in the Arab world, we want law and order and stability.\" He added that \"If it can happen in the holiday destination Tunisia, it can happen anywhere, can't it?\"\n\nBlake Hounshell wrote on Foreign Policy.com that the Tunisian precedent raised the prospect of a \"new trend. There is something horrifying and, in a way, moving about these suicide attempts. It's a shocking, desperate tactic that instantly attracts attention, revulsion, but also sympathy.\"\n\nThe use of communication technologies, and the Internet in particular, has been widely credited as contributor to the mobilisation of protests. A blog associated with \"Wired\" described the intricate efforts of the Tunisian authorities to control such online media as Twitter and Facebook. Other regional regimes were also on higher alert to contain spillover effects that may ensue.\n\nOn 11 March 2011, Reporters Without Borders gave its annual award for online media freedom to the Tunisian blogging group Nawaat.org. Founded in 2004, it played an important role rallying anti-government protesters by reporting on the protests which the national media ignored.\n\nBouazizi's actions resonated across the region, with many others across the Arab world following suit. In January 2011, the BBC reported: \"Clearly the self-immolation of Mohamed Bouazizi has resonated across the region...'There is great interest. The Egyptian people and the Egyptian public have been following the events in Tunisia with so much joy, since they can draw parallels between the Tunisian situation and their own.'\"\n\nAfter the beginning of the uprising in Tunisia, similar protests took place in almost all Arab countries from Morocco to Iraq, as well as in other states, ranging from Gabon to Albania, Iran, Kazakhstan, United States, India and others. Following weeks of protests, Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak resigned on 11 February. Major protests against longtime Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi broke out on 17 February and quickly deteriorated into civil war, ultimately resulting in the downfall of the Gaddafi regime later in the year. Syria experienced a major uprising of people calling for the removal of President Bashar al-Assad. The Syrian uprising also deteriorated into a civil war, giving rise to the militant group, ISIS, and partly causing the current refugee crisis. In addition, Yemen, Bahrain, and Algeria have seen major protests.\n\nHowever, a financial analyst in Dubai suggested that \"the spillover effect of the political turbulence to the large countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council is non-existent as there are no similar drivers.\"\n\nIn mid-May 2013, Tunisia banned the Salafist Ansar al-Sharia from carrying out party congresses. The day after the congress was due to be carried out, clashes between security forces and party supporters in Kairouan resulted in one death amid attempts to disperse those who wanted to carry out the events.\n\nThe Tunisian president, Beji Caid Essebsi, renewed the state of emergency in October 2015 for three months due to previous terror attacks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51553422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51553422", "title": "USA Freedom Kids", "text": "USA Freedom Kids\n\nUSA Freedom Kids, sometimes referred to as USA Freedom Girls, is a dancing girl group, known for performing to their song \"Freedom's Call\" at a Donald Trump rally in Pensacola, Florida, in January 2016 during his presidential campaign.\n\n, there were 5 girls in USA Freedom Kids: Alexis, age 8, Bianca, age 11, Izzy, age 11, Sarah, age 13, and Victoria, age 12. The group was formed and is managed by Alexis father, Jeff Popick, a former television stunt man and Trump supporter. They came together from a casting call. Sarah, a member of the group has been blind since birth. The group is from Naples, Florida.\n\nBianca, Alexis, and Elena performed the song \"Freedom's Call\" at the January 13, 2016 Donald Trump rally in Pensacola, Florida, during his 2016 presidential campaign. The performance was viewed more than 2 million times on YouTube by January 15. \"Freedom's Call\" was written by Popick and is sung to the tune of George M. Cohan's \"Over There\" (1917), which was popularized during World Wars I and II.\n\nThe group also performed in front of the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame at the 2016 Republican National Convention in Cleveland.\n\nOn August 30, 2016, Popick sued the Trump campaign for failing to let the group sell CDs at a rally and for canceling their performance in Des Moines, Iowa. The lawsuit was voluntarily dropped on December 13, 2016.\n\nIn response to the group's January 2016 performance, Sophie Gilbert of \"The Atlantic\" said, \"To quote \"New Girl\", this is what every day is like in North Korea.\" \"The Huffington Post\" Paul Blumenthal tweeted: \"Unsurprisingly, American fascism is kind of tacky.\" James Corden of \"The Late Late Show\" called the performance \"horrific\". Glen Weldon, an NPR pop culture contributor, said in disbelief, \"I don't. Is this. What.\"\n\nThe USA Freedom Kids were named one of the \"45 Americans Who Defined the Election\" by \"Time\".\n\nThe group was parodied by \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", who had the \"Number One America Liberty Children\" perform a song in support of Jeb Bush.\n\nThe parody group \"USA Freedom Grown-Ups\", comprising four women and one man, performed on \"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert\". Colbert introduced the group by saying, \"Well folks, Donald Trump thinks he can get away with [neglecting to pay the group], but I'm going to hold him accountable and get his attention with a flashy song-and-dance number. And because I don't think children should be involved in the dirty world of politics, here with a new song for Donald Trump, please welcome the USA Freedom Grown-Ups.\" The song was sung to the same tune as \"Freedom's Call\" and included the lyrics, \"Don't be such a douche, pay your I-O-Youche\" and \"That might be your real hair, but you're a fake billionaire. Pay people what they've earned, and release your tax returns!\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26058413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26058413", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 550", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 550\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 550, adopted on 11 May 1984, after hearing representations from the Republic of Cyprus and reaffirming resolutions 365 (1974), 367 (1975), 541 (1983) and Resolution 544 (1983), the Council condemned the illegal secessionist activities in the occupied part of the Republic of Cyprus from Turkey, in violation of the previous resolutions. \n\nThe Council then called on other Member States not to recognise the so-called Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), condemning the exchange of ambassadors between Turkey and Northern Cyprus and considering all attempts to interfere with the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus contrary to Security Council resolutions. Finally, the resolution also called for the Secretary-General to promote the implementation of the current resolution.\n\nThe resolution was adopted by 13 votes to one against (Pakistan) and one abstention from the United States. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22859130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22859130", "title": "Yedinstvo (Lithuania)", "text": "Yedinstvo (Lithuania)\n\nYedinstvo (literally: \"Unity\", , , ) was a pro-Moscow and anti-Sąjūdis movement in the Lithuanian SSR during the Perestroika era. The goals of the movement were similar to those of the Latvian and Estonian Internationalist Movements, e.g. opposition to disintegration of the Soviet Union. Yedinstvo was supported by the Soviet military and the KGB.\n\nIn addition to ethic Russians, the organization had some success among the Polish minority in Lithuania, many of whom preferred Lithuania as a member of the Soviet Union. Yedinstvo went as far as to support forming a Polish autonomous region in southeastern Lithuania. Some commentators suggested that the organization was more popular with the Polish minority than the Russophone minority of Lithuania, which might have surprised the Poles of Warsaw, then seeking a de-communization in Poland. At the election to the Soviet Congress of People's Deputies, two Poles were elected to that body, both pro-Moscow.\n\nThe movement lost influence after the abortive August coup that its leaders had supported. Since 1991, the organization has been inactive.\n\n"}
