{"id": "3775312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3775312", "title": "Alur language", "text": "Alur language\n\nAlur (Dho-Alur [d̟ɔ.a.lur]) is a Western Nilotic language spoken in the southern West Nile region of Uganda and the northeastern Ituri Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The language's subialects are Jokot, Jonam/Lo-Naam (mainly spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo), Mambisa and Wanyoro.\n\nVowels\n\nAlur has 9 vowels.\n\nConsonants\n\nAlur has 23 consonants.\n\nAlur has an SVO word order.\n\nThe Alur language has no officially accepted orthography. However, informal conventions have been established in written materials and road signs.\n\nFirst, there is usually no written tonal distinction. Second, the phonemic distinction between /ŋ/ and /ng/ is occasionally reflected in the orthography, with /ŋ/ represented by 'ŋ' and /ng/ represented by 'ng'. However, /ŋ/ is also frequently written as 'ng', confusing it orthographically with /ng/.\n\n"}
{"id": "5281756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5281756", "title": "Autonomic dysreflexia", "text": "Autonomic dysreflexia\n\nAutonomic dysreflexia (AD), also previously known as autonomic hyperreflexia or mass reflex, is a potential medical emergency classically characterized by uncontrolled hypertension and bradycardia, although tachycardia is known to commonly occur. AD occurs most often in individuals with spinal cord injuries with lesions at or above the T6 spinal cord level, although it has been reported in patients with lesions as low as T10. Guillain–Barré syndrome may also cause Autonomic Dysreflexia.\n\nThe uncontrolled hypertension in AD may result in mild symptoms, such as sweating above the lesion level, goosebumps, blurred vision, or headache; However, severe hypertension may result in potentially life-threatening complications including seizure, intracranial bleed, or retinal detachment.\n\nAD is triggered by either noxious or non-noxious stimuli, resulting in sympathetic stimulation and hyperactivity. The most common causes include bladder or bowel over-distension, from urinary retention and fecal compaction, respectively. The resulting sympathetic surge transmits through intact peripheral nerves, resulting in systemic vasoconstriction below the level of the spinal cord lesion. The peripheral arterial vasoconstriction and hypertension activates the baroreceptors, resulting in a parasympathetic surge originating in the central nervous system to inhibit the sympathetic outflow; however, the parasympathetic signal is unable to transmit below the level of the spinal cord lesion. This results in bradycardia, vasodilation, flushing, pupillary constriction and nasal stuffiness above the spinal lesion, while there's piloerection, pale and cool skin below the lesion due to the prevailing sympathetic outflow.\n\nInitial treatment involves sitting the patient upright, removing any constrictive clothing (including abdominal binders and support stockings), rechecking blood pressure frequently, and then checking for and removing the inciting issue, which may require urinary catheterization or bowel disimpaction. If systolic blood pressure remains elevated (over 150 mm Hg) after initial steps, fast-acting short-duration antihypertensives are considered, while other inciting causes must be investigated for the symptoms to resolve.\n\nPrevention of AD involves educating the patient, family and caregivers of the precipitating cause, if known, and how to avoid it, as well as other triggers. Since bladder and bowel are common causes, prevention involves routine bladder and bowel programs and urological follow-up for cystoscopy/urodynamic studies.\n\nThis condition is distinct and usually episodic, with the people potentially experiencing remarkably high blood pressure, intense headaches, profuse sweating, facial erythema, goosebumps, nasal stuffiness, a \"feeling of doom\" or apprehension, and blurred vision. An elevation of 20 mm Hg over baseline systolic blood pressure, with a potential source below the neurological level of injury, meets the current definition dysreflexia.\n\nAutonomic dysreflexia can become chronic and recurrent, often in response to longstanding medical problems like soft tissue pressure injuries or hemorrhoids. Long term therapy may include alpha blockers or calcium channel blockers.\n\nComplications of severe acute hypertension can include seizures, pulmonary edema, myocardial infarction, or cerebral hemorrhage. Additional organs that may be affected include the kidneys and retinas of the eyes.\n\nThe first episode of autonomic dysreflexia may occur weeks to years after spinal cord injury takes place, but most people at risk (80%) develop their first episode within the first year after injury. Early AD tends to be associated with less severe increases in blood pressure. \n\nOne common causative factor may be an undetected urinary tract infection. The difficulty in assessing this may be complicated with the usage of indwelling or suprapubic catheters. Other causes include medication side effects and various disease processes. The use of stimulants such as cocaine and amphetamines which can result in urinary retention, and the use of CNS depressants and other psychoactive drugs can also lead to urinary retention and constipation thus leading to autonomic dysreflexia when in use over an extended period of time. \n\nCurrent scientific literature suggests that noxious (painful) stimuli are the primary initiators of AD. (Note: Not all noxious stimuli will cause AD. Some otherwise severe noxious stimuli in normal people, e.g. broken bones, may not result in AD, and may in fact even go unnoticed.) However, different studies have found that activation of pain receptors in muscle and skin below the lesion in spinal cord injured individuals did not trigger AD. These studies suggests that not all noxious stimuli are reliable triggers of AD, and because non-noxious stimuli can also trigger AD, attribution of an episode of AD to noxious stimuli may cause clinicians to overlook underlying non-noxious triggers. As a result, non-noxious trigger factors remain undetected, prolonging an episode of AD. They concluded that when deducing the potential causes of AD it is important to consider non-noxious sources of stimulation in addition to noxious triggers. Current assessment of autonomic dysreflexia in patients with known causative factors include palpation of the bladder and bowel and can also include bladder scan.\n\nSupraspinal vasomotor neurons send projections to the intermediolateral cell column, which is composed of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) through the T1-L2 segments. The supraspinal neurons act on the SPN and its tonic firing, modulating its action on the peripheral sympathetic chain ganglia and the adrenal medulla. The sympathetic ganglia act directly on the blood vessels they innervate throughout the body, controlling vessel diameter and resistance, while the adrenal medulla indirectly controls the same action through the release of epinephrine and norepinephrine. The descending autonomic pathways, which are responsible for the supraspinal communication with the SPN, are interrupted resulting in decreased sympathetic outflow below the level of the injury. In this circumstance, the SPN is controlled only by spinal influences. The first couple weeks after a spinal injury, the decreased sympathetic outflow causes reduced blood pressure and sympathetic reflex. Eventually, synaptic reorganization and plasticity of SPN develops into an overly sensitive state, which results in abnormal reflex activation of SPN due to afferent stimuli, such as bowel or bladder distension. Reflex activation results in systemic vasoconstriction below the spinal cord disruption. The peripheral arterial vasoconstriction and hypertension activates the baroreceptors, resulting in a parasympathetic surge originating in the central nervous system, which inhibits the sympathetic outflow; however, the parasympathetic signal is unable to transmit below the level of the spinal cord lesion. This results in vasodilation, flushing, pupillary constriction and nasal stuffiness above the spinal lesion, while there's piloerection, pale and cool skin below the lesion due to the prevailing sympathetic outflow.\n\nThe symptoms are usually not subtle, although asymptomatic events have been documented. Autonomic dysreflexia differs from autonomic instability, the various modest cardiac and neurological changes that accompany a spinal cord injury, including bradycardia, orthostatic hypotension, and ambient temperature intolerance. In autonomic dysreflexia, patients will experience hypertension, sweating, spasms (sometimes severe spasms) and erythema (more likely in upper extremities) and may suffer from headaches and blurred vision. Mortality is rare with AD, but morbidity such as stroke, retinal hemorrhage and pulmonary edema if left untreated can be quite severe. Older patients with very incomplete spinal cord injuries and systolic hypertension without symptoms are usually experiencing essential hypertension, not autonomic dysreflexia. Aggressive treatment of these elderly patients with rapidly acting antihypertensive medications can have disastrous results.\n\nProper treatment of autonomic dysreflexia involves administration of anti-hypertensives along with immediate determination and removal of the triggering stimuli. Often, sitting the patient up and dangling legs over the bedside can reduce blood pressures below dangerous levels and provide partial symptom relief. Tight clothing and stockings should be removed. Straight catheterization of the bladder or relief of a blocked urinary catheter tube may resolve the problem. The rectum should be cleared of stool impaction, using anaesthetic lubricating jelly. If the noxious precipitating trigger cannot be identified, drug treatment is needed to decrease elevating intracranial pressure until further studies can identify the cause.\n\nDrug treatment includes the rapidly acting vasodilators, including sublingual or topical nitrates or oral hydralazine or clonidine. Ganglionic blockers are also used to control sympathetic nervous system outflow. Topical nitroglycerin ointment is a convenient and safe treatment—an inch or two can be applied to the chest wall or forehead, and wiped off when blood pressures begin to normalize. Autonomic dysreflexia is abolished temporarily by spinal or general anaesthesia. These treatments are used during obstetric delivery of women with autonomic dysreflexia.\n\nThe cause of autonomic dysreflexia itself can be life-threatening, and must also be completely investigated and treated appropriately to prevent unnecessary morbidity and mortality.\n\nThe Consortium for Spinal Cord Medicine has developed evidence-based clinical practice guidelines for the management of autonomic dysreflexia in adults, children, and pregnant women. There is also a consumer version of this guideline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18950900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950900", "title": "Brand", "text": "Brand\n\nA brand is a name, term, design, symbol, or other feature that distinguishes an organization or product from its rivals in the eyes of the customer. Brands are used in business, marketing, and advertising. Name brands are sometimes distinguished from generic or store brands.\n\nThe practice of branding is thought to have begun with the ancient Egyptians who were known to have engaged in livestock branding as early as 2,700 BCE. Branding was used to differentiate one person’s cattle from another's by means of a distinctive symbol burned into the animal’s skin with a hot branding iron. If a person stole any of the cattle, anyone else who saw the symbol could deduce the actual owner. However, the term has been extended to mean a strategic personality for a product or company, so that ‘brand’ now suggests the values and promises that a consumer may perceive and buy into. Over time, the practice of branding objects extended to a broader range of packaging and goods offered for sale including oil, wine, cosmetics and fish sauce.\n\nBranding is a set of marketing and communication methods that help to distinguish a company or products from competitors, aiming to create a lasting impression in the minds of customers. The key components that form a brand's toolbox include a brand’s identity, brand communication (such as by logos and trademarks), brand awareness, brand loyalty, and various branding (brand management) strategies. Many companies believe that there is often little to differentiate between several types of products in the 21st century, and therefore branding is one of a few remaining forms of product differentiation.\n\nBrand equity is the measurable totality of a brand's worth and is validated by assessing the effectiveness of these branding components. As markets become increasingly dynamic and fluctuating, brand equity is a marketing technique to increase customer satisfaction and customer loyalty, with side effects like reduced price sensitivity. A brand is, in essence, a promise to its customers of what they can expect from products and may include emotional as well as functional benefits. When a customer is familiar with a brand, or favours it incomparably to its competitors, this is when a corporation has reached a high level of brand equity. Special accounting standards have been devised to assess brand equity. In accounting, a brand defined as an intangible asset, is often the most valuable asset on a corporation’s balance sheet. Brand owners manage their brands carefully to create shareholder value, and brand valuation is an important management technique that ascribes a monetary value to a brand, and allows marketing investment to be managed (e.g.: prioritized across a portfolio of brands) to maximize shareholder value. Although only acquired brands appear on a company's balance sheet, the notion of putting a value on a brand forces marketing leaders to be focused on long term stewardship of the brand and managing for value.\n\nThe word ‘brand’ is often used as a metonym referring to the company that is strongly identified with a brand. Marque or make are often used to denote a brand of motor vehicle, which may be distinguished from a car model. A \"concept brand\" is a brand that is associated with an abstract concept, like breast cancer awareness or environmentalism, rather than a specific product, service, or business. A \"commodity brand\" is a brand associated with a commodity.\n\nThe word, \"brand\", derives from its original and current meaning as a firebrand, a burning piece of wood. That word comes from the Old High German, \"brinnan\" and Old English \"byrnan\", \"biernan\", and \"brinnan\" via Middle English as \"birnan\" and \"brond\". Torches were used to indelibly mark items such as furniture and pottery, and to permanently burn identifying marks into the skin of slaves and livestock. Later the firebrands were replaced with branding irons. The marks themselves took on the term and came to be closely associated with craftsmen's products. Through that association, the term eventually acquired its current meaning.\n\nBranding and labelling have an ancient history. Branding probably began with the practice of branding livestock in order to deter theft. Images of the branding of cattle occur in ancient Egyptian tombs dating to around 2,700 BCE. Over time, purchasers realised that the brand provided information about origin as well as about ownership, and could serve as a guide to quality. Branding was adapted by farmers, potters and traders for use on other types of goods such as pottery and ceramics. Forms of branding or proto-branding emerged spontaneously and independently throughout Africa, Asia and Europe at different times, depending on local conditions. Seals, which acted as quasi-brands, have been found on early Chinese products of the Qin Dynasty (221-206 BCE); large numbers of seals survive from the Harappan civilization of the Indus Valley (3,300–1,300 BCE) where the local community depended heavily on trade; cylinder seals came into use in Ur in Mesopotamia in around 3,000 BCE and facilitated the labelling of goods and property; and the use of maker's marks on pottery was commonplace in both ancient Greece and Rome Identity marks, such as stamps on ceramics, were also used in ancient Egypt.\n\nDiana Twede has argued that the \"consumer packaging functions of protection, utility and communication have been necessary whenever packages were the object of transactions\". She has shown that amphorae used in Mediterranean trade between 1,500 and 500 BCE exhibited a wide variety of shapes and markings, which consumers used to glean information about the type of goods and the quality. Systematic use of stamped labels dates from around the fourth century BCE. In a largely pre-literate society, the shape of the amphora and its pictorial markings conveyed information about the contents, region of origin and even the identity of the producer, which were understood to convey information about product quality. David Wengrow has argued that branding became necessary following the urban revolution in ancient Mesopotamia in the 4th century BCE, when large-scale economies started mass-producing commodities such as alcoholic drinks, cosmetics and textiles. These ancient societies imposed strict forms of quality-control over commodities, and also needed to convey value to the consumer through branding. Producers began by attaching simple stone seals to products which, over time, gave way to clay seals bearing impressed images, often associated with the producer's personal identity thus giving the product a personality. Not all historians agree that these markings are comparable with modern brands or labels, with some suggesting that the early pictorial brands or simple thumbprints used in pottery should be termed \"proto-brands\" while other historians argue that the presence of these simple markings does not imply that mature brand management practices operated.\nScholarly studies have found evidence of branding, packaging and labelling in antiquity. Archaeological evidence of potters' stamps has been found across the breadth of the Roman Empire and in ancient Greece. Stamps were used on bricks, pottery, and storage containers as well as on fine ceramics. Pottery marking had become commonplace in ancient Greece by the 6th century BCE. A vase manufactured around 490 BCE bears the inscription “Sophilos painted me”, indicating that the object was both fabricated and painted by a single potter. Branding may have been necessary to support the extensive trade in such pots. For example, 3rd-century Gaulish pots bearing the names of well-known potters and the place of manufacture (such as Attianus of Lezoux, Tetturo of Lezoux and Cinnamus of Vichy) have been found as far away as Essex and Hadrian's Wall in England. English potters based at Colchester and Chichester used stamps on their ceramic wares by the 1st century CE. The use of hallmarks, a type of brand, on precious metals dates to around the 4th century CE. A series of five marks occurs on Byzantine silver dating from this period.\nSome of the earliest use of maker's marks, dating to about 1,300 BCE, have been found in India. The oldest generic brand in continuous use, known in India since the Vedic period (ca. 1,100 BCE to 500 BCE), is the herbal paste known as \"Chyawanprash\", consumed for its purported health benefits and attributed to a revered \"rishi\" (or seer) named Chyawan. One well-documented early example of a highly developed brand is that of \"White Rabbit\" sewing needles, dating from China's Song Dynasty (960 to 1127 CE). A copper printing-plate used to print posters contained a message which roughly translates as: “Jinan Liu’s Fine Needle Shop: We buy high-quality steel rods and make fine-quality needles, to be ready for use at home in no time.” The plate also includes a trademark in the form of a 'White Rabbit\", which signified good luck and was particularly relevant to women, who were the primary purchasers. Details in the image show a white rabbit crushing herbs, and text includes advice to shoppers to look for the stone white rabbit in front of the maker's shop.\nIn ancient Rome, a commercial brand or inscription applied to objects offered for sale was known as a titulus pictus. The inscription typically specified information such as place of origin, destination, type of product and occasionally quality claims or the name of the manufacturer. Roman marks or inscriptions were applied to a very wide variety of goods, including, pots, ceramics, amphorae (storage/ shipping containers) and on factory-produced oil-lamps. Carbonized loaves of bread, found at Herculaneum, indicate that some bakers stamped their bread with the producer's name. Roman glassmakers branded their works, with the name of Ennion appearing most prominently.\n\nOne merchant who made good use of the titulus pictus was Umbricius Scauras, a manufacturer of fish sauce (also known as garum) in Pompeii, circa 35 CE. Mosaic patterns in the atrium of his house feature images of amphorae bearing his personal brand and quality claims. The mosaic depicts four different amphora, one at each corner of the atrium, and bearing labels as follows:\nScauras' fish sauce was known by people across the Mediterranean to be of very high quality, and its reputation travelled as far away as modern France. In both Pompeii and nearby Herculaneum, archaeological evidence also points to evidence of branding and labelling in relatively common use across a broad range of goods. Wine jars, for example, were stamped with names, such as \"Lassius\" and \"L. Eumachius\"; probably references to the name of the producer.\n\nThe use of identity marks on products declined following the fall of the Roman Empire. However, in the European Middle Ages, heraldry developed a language of visual symbolism which would feed into the evolution of branding,\nand with the rise of the merchant's guilds the use of marks resurfaced and was applied to specific types of goods. By the 13th century the use of maker's marks had become evident on a broad range of goods. In 1266 makers' marks on bread became compulsory in England. The Italians used brands in the form of watermarks on paper in the 13th century. Blind stamps, hallmarks, and silver-makers' marks - all types of brand - became widely used across Europe during this period. Hallmarks, although known from the 4th-century, especially in Byzantium, only came into general use during the Medieval period. British silversmiths introduced hallmarks for silver in 1300.\nSome brands still in existence date from the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries' period of mass-production. Bass & Company, the British brewery founded in 1777, became a pioneer in international brand marketing. Many years before 1855 Bass applied a red triangle to casks of its Pale Ale. In 1876 its red-triangle brand became the first registered trademark issued by the British government. \"Guinness World Records\" recognizes Tate & Lyle (of Lyle's Golden Syrup) as Britain's, and the world's, oldest branding and packaging, with its green-and-gold packaging having remained almost unchanged since 1885. Twinings Tea has used the same logo — capitalized font beneath a lion crest — since 1787, making it the world's oldest in continuous use.\n\nA characteristic feature of 19th-century mass-marketing was the widespread use of branding, originating with the advent of packaged goods. Industrialization moved the production of many household items, such as soap, from local communities to centralized factories. When shipping their items, the factories would literally brand their logo or company insignia on the barrels used, effectively using a corporate trademark as a quasi-brand.\n\nFactories established following the Industrial Revolution introduced mass-produced goods and needed to sell their products to a wider market - that is, to customers previously familiar only with locally produced goods. It quickly became apparent that a generic package of soap had difficulty competing with familiar, local products. Packaged-goods manufacturers needed to convince the market that the public could place just as much trust in the non-local product. Gradually, manufacturers began using personal identifiers to differentiate their goods from generic products on the market. Marketers generally began to realise that brands, to which personalities were attached, outsold rival brands. By the 1880s large manufacturers had learned to imbue their brands' identity with personality traits such as youthfulness, fun, sex appeal, luxury or the \"cool\" factor. This began the modern practice now known as \"branding\", where the consumers buy \"the brand\" instead of the product and rely on the brand name instead of a retailer's recommendation.\n\nThe process of giving a brand \"human\" characteristics represented, at least in part, a response to consumer concerns about mass-produced goods. The Quaker Oats Company began using the image of the \"Quaker man\" in place of a trademark from the late 1870s, with great success. Pears' soap, Campbell's soup, Coca-Cola, Juicy Fruit chewing gum and Aunt Jemima pancake mix were also among the first products to be \"branded\" in an effort to increase the consumer's familiarity with the product's merits. Other brands which date from that era, such as Uncle Ben's rice and Kellogg's breakfast cereal, furnish illustrations of the trend.\n\nBy the early 1900s, trade-press publications, advertising agencies and advertising experts began producing books and pamphlets exhorting manufacturers to bypass retailers and to advertise direct to consumers with strongly branded messages. Around 1900, advertising guru James Walter Thompson published a house advertisement explaining trademark advertising. This was an early commercial explanation of what scholars now recognize as modern branding and the beginnings of brand management. This trend continued to the 1980s, and is quantified in concepts such as brand value and brand equity. Naomi Klein has described this development as \"brand equity mania\". In 1988, for example, Philip Morris purchased Kraft for six times what the company was worth on paper. Business analysts reported that what they really purchased was the brand name.\n\nWith the rise of mass media in the early 20th century, companies soon adopted techniques that would allow their messages to stand out; slogans, mascots, and jingles began to appear on radio in the 1920s and in early television broadcasting in the 1930s. Soap manufacturers sponsored many of the earliest radio-drama series, and the genre became known as \"soap opera\".\n\nBy the 1940s manufacturers began to recognize the way in which consumers had started to develop relationships with their brands in a social/psychological/anthropological sense. Advertisers began to use motivational research and consumer research to gather insights into consumer purchasing. Strong branded campaigns for Chrysler and Exxon/Esso, using insights drawn from research into psychology and cultural anthropology, led to some of most enduring campaigns of the 20th-century. Brand advertisers began to imbue goods and services with a personality, based on the insight that consumers searched for brands with personalities that matched their own.\n\nEffective branding can result in higher sales of not only one product, but of other products associated with that brand. If a customer loves Pillsbury biscuits and trusts the brand, he or she is more likely to try other products offered by the company - such as chocolate-chip cookies, for example. Brand development, often the task of a design team, takes time to produce.\n\nA brand name is the part of a brand that can be spoken or written and \"identifies\" a product, service or company and sets it apart from other comparable products within a category. A brand name may include words, phrases, signs, symbols, designs, or any combination of these elements. For consumers, a brand name is a \"memory heuristic\"; a convenient way to remember preferred product choices. A brand name is not to be confused with a \"trademark\" which refers to the brand name or part of a brand that is legally protected. For example, Coca-Cola not only protects the brand name, \"Coca-Cola\", but also protects the distinctive Spencerian script and the contoured shape of the bottle.\n\nSimply, the brand identity is a set of individual components, such as a name, a design, a set of images, a slogan, a vision, a design, writing style, a particular font or a symbol etc. which sets the brand aside from others.\nIn order for a company to exude a strong sense of brand identity, it must have an in-depth understanding of its target market, competitors and the surrounding business environment. Brand identity includes both the core identity and the extended identity. The core identity reflects consistent long-term associations with the brand; whereas the extended identity involves the intricate details of the brand that help generate a constant motif.\n\nAccording to Kotler et al. (2009), a brand's identity may deliver four levels of meaning:\n\n\nA brand's attributes are a set of labels with which the corporation wishes to be associated. For example, a brand may showcase its primary attribute as environmental friendliness. However, a brand's attributes alone are not enough to persuade a customer into purchasing the product. These attributes must be communicated through benefits, which are more emotional translations. If a brand's attribute is being environmentally friendly, customers will receive the benefit of feeling that they are helping the environment by associating with the brand. Aside from attributes and benefits, a brand's identity may also involve branding to focus on representing its core set of values. If a company is seen to symbolise specific values, it will, in turn, attract customers who also believe in these values. For example, Nike's brand represents the value of a \"just do it\" attitude. Thus, this form of brand identification attracts customers who also share this same value. Even more extensive than its perceived values is a brand's personality. Quite literally, one can easily describe a successful brand identity as if it were a person. This form of brand identity has proven to be the most advantageous in maintaining long-lasting relationships with consumers, as it gives them a sense of personal interaction with the brand Collectively, all four forms of brand identification help to deliver a powerful meaning behind what a corporation hopes to accomplish, and to explain why customers should choose one brand over its competitors.\n\nBrand personality refers to “the set of human personality traits that are both applicable to and relevant for brands.” Marketers and consumer researchers often argue that brands can be imbued with human-like characteristics which resonate with potential consumers. Such personality traits can assist marketers to create unique, brands that are differentiated from rival brands. Aaker conceptualised brand personality as consisting of five broad dimensions, namely: sincerity (down-to-earth, honest, wholesome, and cheerful), excitement (daring, spirited, imaginative, and up to date), competence (reliable, intelligent, and successful), sophistication (glamorous, upper class, charming), and ruggedness (outdoorsy and tough). Subsequent research studies have suggested that Aaker's dimensions of brand personality are relatively stable across different industries, market segments and over time. Much of the literature on branding suggests that consumers prefer brands with personalities that are congruent with their own.\n\nConsumers may distinguish the psychological aspect (brand associations like thoughts, feelings, perceptions, images, experiences, beliefs, attitudes, and so on that become linked to the brand) of a brand from the experiential aspect. The experiential aspect consists of the sum of all points of contact with the brand and is termed the consumer's \"brand experience\". The brand is often intended to create an emotional response and recognition, leading to potential loyalty and repeat purchases. The brand experience is a brand's action perceived by a person. The psychological aspect, sometimes referred to as the \"brand image\", is a symbolic construct created within the minds of people, consisting of all the information and expectations associated with a product, with a service, or with the companies providing them.\n\nMarketers or product managers responsible for branding seek to develop or align the expectations behind the brand experience, creating the impression that a brand associated with a product or service has certain qualities or characteristics that make it special or unique. A brand can therefore become one of the most valuable elements in an advertising theme, as it demonstrates what the brand owner is able to offer in the marketplace. The art of creating and maintaining a brand is called brand management. Orientation of an entire organization towards its brand is called brand orientation. Brand orientation develops in response to market intelligence.\n\nCareful brand management seeks to make products or services relevant and meaningful to a target audience. Marketers tend to treat brands as more than the difference between the actual cost of a product and its selling price; rather brands represent the sum of all valuable qualities of a product to the consumer and are often treated as the total investment in brand building activities including marketing communications.\n\nConsumers may look on branding as an aspect of products or services, as it often serves to denote a certain attractive quality or characteristic (see also brand promise). From the perspective of brand owners, branded products or services can command higher prices. Where two products resemble each other, but one of the products has no associated branding (such as a generic, store-branded product), potential purchasers may often select the more expensive branded product on the basis of the perceived quality of the brand or on the basis of the reputation of the brand owner.\n\nBrand awareness involves a customers' ability to recall and/or recognize brands, logos and branded advertising. Brands helps customers to understand which brands or products belong to which product or service category. Brands assist customers to understand the constellation of benefits offered by individual brands, and how a given brand within a category is differentiated from its competing brands, and thus the brand helps customers & potential customers understand which brand satisfies their needs. Thus, the brand offers the customer a short-cut to understanding the different product or service offerings that make up a particular category.\n\nBrand awareness is a key step in the customer's purchase decision process, since some kind of awareness is a precondition to purchasing. That is, customers will not consider a brand if they are not aware of it. Brand awareness is a key component in understanding the effectiveness both of a brand's identity and of its communication methods. Successful brands are those that consistently generate a high level of brand awareness, as this can often be the pivotal factor in securing customer transactions. Various forms of brand awareness can be identified. Each form reflects a different stage in a customer's cognitive ability to address the brand in a given circumstance.\n\nMarketers typically identify two distinct types of brand awareness; namely \"brand recall\" (also known as \"unaided recall\" or occasionally \"spontaneous recall\") and \"brand recognition\" (also known as \"aided brand recall\"). These types of awareness operate in entirely different ways with important implications for marketing strategy and advertising.\n\n\nBrand recognition is one of the initial phases of brand awareness and validates whether or not a customer remembers being pre-exposed to the brand. Brand recognition (also known as \"aided brand recall\") refers to consumers' ability to correctly differentiate a brand when they come into contact with it. This does not necessarily require that the consumers identify or recall the brand name. When customers experience brand recognition, they are triggered by either a visual or verbal cue. For example, when looking to satisfy a category need such as toilet paper, the customer would firstly be presented with multiple brands to choose from. Once the customer is visually or verbally faced with a brand, he/she may remember being introduced to the brand before. When given some type of cue, consumers who are able to retrieve the particular memory node that referred to the brand, they exhibit brand recognition. Often, this form of brand awareness assists customers in choosing one brand over another when faced with a low-involvement purchasing decision.\n\nBrand recognition is often the mode of brand awareness that operates in retail shopping environments. When presented with a product at the point-of-sale, or after viewing its visual packaging, consumers are able to recognize the brand and may be able to associate it with attributes or meanings acquired through exposure to promotion or word-of-mouth referrals. In contrast to brand recall, where few consumers are able to spontaneously recall brand names within a given category, when prompted with a brand name, a larger number of consumers are typically able to recognize it.\n\nBrand recognition is most successful when people can elicit recognition without being explicitly exposed to the company's name, but rather through visual signifiers like logos, slogans, and colors. For example, Disney successfully branded its particular script font (originally created for Walt Disney's \"signature\" logo), which it used in the logo for go.com.\n\nUnlike brand recognition, brand recall (also known as \"unaided brand recall\" or \"spontaneous brand recall\") is the ability of the customer retrieving the brand correctly from memory. Rather than being given a choice of multiple brands to satisfy a need, consumers are faced with a need first, and then must recall a brand from their memory to satisfy that need. This level of brand awareness is stronger than brand recognition, as the brand must be firmly cemented in the consumer's memory to enable unassisted remembrance. This gives the company huge advantage over its competitors because the customer is already willing to buy or at least know the company offering available in the market. Thus, brand recall is a confirmation that previous branding touchpoints have successfully fermented in the minds of its consumers.\n\nMarketing-mix modeling can help marketing leaders optimize how they spend marketing budgets to maximize the impact on brand awareness or on sales. Managing brands for value creation will often involve applying marketing-mix modeling techniques in conjunction with brand valuation.\n\nBrands typically comprise various elements, such as:\n\n\nAlthough brand identity is regarded as the most fundamental asset to a brand's equity, the worth of a brand's identity would become obsolete without ongoing brand communication. Integrated marketing communications (IMC) relates to how a brand transmits a clear consistent message to its stakeholders . Five key components comprise IMC:\n\n\nThe effectiveness of a brand's communication is determined by how accurately the customer perceives the brand's intended message through its IMC. Although IMC is a broad strategic concept, the most crucial brand communication elements are pinpointed to how the brand sends a message and what touch points the brand uses to connect with its customers.\n\nOne can analyse the traditional communication model into several consecutive steps:\n\n\nWhen a brand communicates a brand identity to a receiver, it runs the risk of the receiver incorrectly interpreting the message. Therefore, a brand should use appropriate communication channels to positively \"…affect how the psychological and physical aspects of a brand are perceived\" \n\nIn order for brands to effectively communicate to customers, marketers must \"…consider all touch points, or sources of contact, that a customer has with the brand\". Touch points represent the channel stage in the traditional communication model, where a message travels from the sender to the receiver. Any point where a customer has an interaction with the brand - whether watching a television advertisement, hearing about a brand through word of mouth, or even noticing a branded license plate - defines a touch point. According to Dalen \"et al.\" (2010), every touch point has the \"…potential to add positive - or suppress negative - associations to the brand's equity\" Thus a brand's IMC should cohesively deliver positive messages through appropriate touch points associated with its target market. One methodology involves using sensory stimuli touch points to activate customer emotion. For example, if a brand consistently uses a pleasant smell as a primary touch point, the brand has a much higher chance of creating a positive lasting effect on its customers' senses as well as memory. Another way a brand can ensure that it is utilising the best communication channel, is by focusing on touch points that suit particular areas associated with customer experience. As suggested Figure 2, certain touch points link with a specific stage in customer-brand-involvement. For example, a brand may recognize that advertising touch points are most effective during the pre-purchase experience stage therefore they may target their advertisements to new customers rather than to existing customers. Overall, a brand has the ability to strengthen brand equity by using IMC branding communications through touch points.\n\nBrand communication is important in ensuring brand success in the business world and refers to how businesses transmit their brand messages, characteristics and attributes to their consumers. One method of brand communication which companies can exploit involves electronic word-of mouth (eWOM). EWoM is a relatively new approach identified to communicate with consumers. One popular method of eWOM involves social networking sites (SNSs) such as Twitter. A study found that consumers classed their relationship with a brand as closer if that brand was active on a specific social media site (Twitter). Research further found that the more consumers \"retweeted\" and communicated with a brand, the more they trusted the brand. This suggests that a company could look to employ a social-media campaign to gain consumer trust and loyalty as well as in the pursuit of communicating brand messages.\n\nMcKee (2014) also looked into brand communication and states that when communicating a brand, a company should look to simplify its message as this will lead to more value being portrayed as well as an increased chance of target consumers recalling and recognizing the brand.\n\nIn 2012 Riefler stated that if the company communicating a brand is a global organisation or has future global aims, that company should look to employ a method of communication which is globally appealing to their consumers, and subsequently choose a method of communication with will be internationally understood. One way a company can do this involves choosing a product or service's brand name, as this name will need to be suitable for the marketplace that it aims to enter.\n\nIt is important that if a company wishes to develop a global market, the company name will also need to be suitable in different cultures and not cause offense or be misunderstood. It has also been found that when communicating a brand a company needs to be aware that they must not just visually communicate their brand message and should take advantage of portraying their message through multi-sensory information. One article suggests that other senses, apart from vision, need to be targeted when trying to communicate a brand with consumers.\nFor example, a jingle or background music can have a positive effect on brand recognition, purchasing behaviour and brand recall.\n\nTherefore, when looking to communicate a brand with chosen consumers, companies should investigate a channel of communication which is most suitable for their short-term and long-term aims and should choose a method of communication which is most likely to be adhered to by their chosen consumers. The match-up between the product, the consumer lifestyle, and the endorser is important for effectiveness of brand communication.\n\nThe term \"brand name\" is quite often used interchangeably with \"brand\", although it is more correctly used to specifically denote written or spoken linguistic elements of any product. In this context a \"brand name\" constitutes a type of trademark, if the brand name exclusively identifies the brand owner as the commercial source of products or services. A brand owner may seek to protect proprietary rights in relation to a brand name through trademark registration - such trademarks are called \"Registered Trademarks\". Advertising spokespersons have also become part of some brands, for example: Mr. Whipple of Charmin toilet tissue and Tony the Tiger of Kellogg's Frosted Flakes. Putting a value on a brand by brand valuation or using marketing mix modeling techniques is distinct to valuing a trademark.\n\nBrand names come in many styles.\nA few include:\n\nThe act of associating a product or service with a brand has become part of pop culture. Most products have some kind of brand identity, from common table salt to designer jeans. A brandnomer is a brand name that has colloquially become a generic term for a product or service, such as Band-Aid, Nylon, or Kleenex—which are often used to describe any brand of adhesive bandage; any type of hosiery; or any brand of facial tissue respectively. Xerox, for example, has become synonymous with the word \"copy\".\n\nA brand line allows the introduction of various subtypes of a product under a common, ideally already established, brand name. Examples would be the individual Kinder Chocolates by Ferrero SA, the subtypes of Coca-Cola, or special editions of popular brands. See also brand extension.\nOpen Knowledge Foundation created in December 2013 the BSIN (Brand Standard Identification Number). BSIN is universal and is used by the Open Product Data Working Group of the Open Knowledge Foundation to assign a brand to a product. The OKFN Brand repository is critical for the Open Data movement.\n\nThe outward expression of a brand – including its name, trademark, communications, and visual appearance – is brand identity. Because the identity is assembled by the brand owner, it reflects how the owner \"wants\" the consumer to perceive the brand – and by extension the branded company, organization, product or service. This is in contrast to the brand image, which is a customer's mental picture of a brand. The brand owner will seek to bridge the gap between the brand image and the brand identity. Brand identity is fundamental to consumer recognition and symbolizes the brand's differentiation from competitors.\n\nBrand identity is what the owner wants to communicate to its potential consumers. However, over time, a product's brand identity may acquire (evolve), gaining new attributes from consumer perspective but not necessarily from the marketing communications an owner percolates to targeted consumers. Therefore, businesses research consumer's brand associations.\n\nA brand can also be used to attract customers by a company, if the brand of a company is well established and has goodwill. The recognition and perception of a brand is highly influenced by its visual presentation. A brand's visual identity is the overall look of its communications. Effective visual brand identity is achieved by the consistent use of particular visual elements to create distinction, such as specific fonts, colors, and graphic elements. At the core of every brand identity is a brand mark, or logo. In the United States, brand identity and logo design naturally grew out of the Modernist movement in the 1950s and greatly drew on the principles of that movement – simplicity (Mies van der Rohe's principle of \"Less is more\") and geometric abstraction. These principles can be observed in the work of the pioneers of the practice of visual brand identity design, such as [Lippincott and Margulies], Paul Rand, and Saul Bass. As part of a company's brand identity, a logo should complement the company's message strategy. An effective logo is simple, memorable, and works well in any medium including both online and offline applications.\n\nColor is a particularly important element of visual brand identity and color mapping provides an effective way of ensuring color contributes to differentiation in a visually cluttered marketplace (O'Connor, 2011).\n\nBrand trust is the intrinsic 'believability' that any entity evokes. In the commercial world, the intangible aspect of brand trust impacts the behavior and performance of its business stakeholders in many intriguing ways. It creates the foundation of a strong brand connect with all stakeholders, converting simple awareness to strong commitment. This, in turn, metamorphoses normal people who have an indirect or direct stake in the organization into devoted ambassadors, leading to concomitant advantages like easier acceptability of brand extensions, the perception of premium, and acceptance of temporary quality deficiencies. Brand trust is often used as an important part of developing the portrayal of the business globally. Foreign companies will often use names that are associated with quality, in order to entrust the brand itself. An example would be a Chinese company using a German name.\n\n\"The Brand Trust Report\" is a syndicated primary research that has elaborated on this metric of brand trust. It is a result of action, behavior, communication and attitude of an entity, with the most trust results emerging from its action component. Action of the entity is most important in creating trust in all those audiences who directly engage with the brand, the primary experience carrying primary audiences. However, the tools of communications play a vital role in the transferring the trust experience to audiences which have never experienced the brand, the all-important secondary audience.\n\nBrand parity is the perception of the customers that some brands are equivalent. This means that shoppers will purchase within a group of accepted brands rather than choosing one specific brand. When brand parity operates, quality is often not a major concern because consumers believe that only minor quality differences exist.\n\nThe original aim of branding was to simplify the process of identifying and differentiating products. Over time, manufacturers began to use branded messages to give the brand a unique personality. Brands came to embrace a performance or benefit promise, for the product, certainly, but eventually also for the company behind the brand.\n\nToday, brands play a much bigger role. Brands have been co-opted as powerful symbols in larger debates about economics, social issues, and politics. The power of brands to communicate a complex message quickly, with emotional impact and with the ability of brands to attract media attention, makes them ideal tools in the hands of activists. Cultural conflict over a brand's meaning has also been shown to influence the diffusion of an innovation.\n\nOften, especially in the industrial sector, it is just the company's name which is promoted (leading to one of the most powerful statements of branding: saying just before the company's downgrading. This approach has not worked as well for General Motors, which recently overhauled how its corporate brand relates to the product brands.) Exactly how the company name relates to product and services names is known as brand architecture. Decisions about company names and product names and their relationship depends on more than a dozen strategic considerations.\n\nIn this case, a strong brand name (or company name) is made the vehicle for a range of products (for example, Mercedes-Benz or Black & Decker) or a range of subsidiary brands (such as Cadbury Dairy Milk, Cadbury Flake, or Cadbury Fingers in the UK).\n\nEach brand has a separate name (such as Seven-Up, Kool-Aid, or Nivea Sun (Beiersdorf), which may compete against other brands from the same company (for example, Persil, Omo, Surf, and Lynx are all owned by Unilever).\n\nA challenger brand is a brand in an industry where it is neither the market leader or a niche brand. Challenger brands are categorised by a mindset which sees them have business ambitions beyond conventional resources and an intent to bring change to an industry.\n\nMultiproduct branding strategy is when a company uses one name across all their products in a product class. When the company's trade name is used, multiproduct branding is also known as corporate branding, family branding or umbrella branding. Examples of companies that use corporate branding are Microsoft, Samsung, Apple, and Sony as the company's brand name is identical to their trade name. \nOther examples of multiproduct branding strategy include Virgin and Church & Dwight. Virgin, a multination conglomerate uses the punk inspired, handwritten red logo with the iconic tick for all its products ranging from airlines, hot air balloons, telecommunication to healthcare. Church & Dwight, a manufacturer of household products displays the Arm & Hammer family brand name for all its products containing baking soda as the main ingredient. Multiproduct branding strategy has many advantages. It capitalises on brand equity as consumers that have a good experience with the product will in turn pass on this positive opinion to supplementary objects in the same product class as they share the same name. Consequently, the multiproduct branding strategy makes product line extension possible.\n\nProduct line extension is the procedure of entering a new market segment in its product class by means of using a current brand name. An example of this is the Campbell Soup Company, primarily a producer of canned soups. They utilize a multiproduct branding strategy by way of soup line extensions. They have over 100 soup flavours putting forward varieties such as regular Campbell soup, condensed, chunky, fresh-brewed, organic, and soup on the go. This approach is seen as favourable as it can result in a lower promotion costs and advertising due to the same name being used on all products, therefore increasing the level of brand awareness. Although, line extension has potential negative outcomes with one being that other items in the company's line may be disadvantaged because of the sale of the extension. Line extensions work at their best when they deliver an increase in company revenue by enticing new buyers or by removing sales from competitors.\n\nSubbranding is used by certain multiproduct branding companies. Subbranding merges a corporate, family or umbrella brand with the introduction of a new brand in order to differentiate part of a product line from others in the whole brand system. Subbranding assists to articulate and construct offerings. It can alter a brand's identity as subbranding can modify associations of the parent brand. Examples of successful subbranding can be seen through Gatorade and Porsche. Gatorade, a manufacturer of sport-themed food and beverages effectively introduced Gatorade G2, a low-calorie line of Gatorade drinks. Likewise, Porsche, a specialised automobile manufacturer successfully markets its lower-end line, Porsche Boxster and higher-end line, Porsche Carrera.\n\nBrand extension is the system of employing a current brand name to enter a different product class. Having a strong brand equity allows for brand extension. Nevertheless, brand extension has its disadvantages. There is a risk that too many uses for one brand name can oversaturate the market resulting in a blurred and weak brand for consumers. Examples of brand extension can be seen through Kimberly-Clark and Honda. Kimberly-Clark is a corporation that produces personal and health care products being able to extend the Huggies brand name across a full line of toiletries for toddlers and babies. The success of this brand extension strategy is apparent in the $500 million in annual sales generated globally. Similarly, Honda using their reputable name for automobiles has spread to other products such as motorcycles, power equipment, engines, robots, aircraft, and bikes.\n\nCo-branding is a variation of brand extension. It is where a single product is created from the combining of two brand names of two manufacturers. Co-branding has its advantages as it lets firms enter new product classes and exploit a recognized brand name in that product class. An example of a co-branding success is Whitaker's working with Lewis Road Creamery to create a co-branded beverage called Lewis Road Creamery and Whittaker's Chocolate Milk. This product was a huge success in the New Zealand market with it going viral.\n\nMultibranding strategy is when a company gives each product a distinct name. Multibranding is best used as an approach when each brand in intended for a different market segment. Multibranding is used in an assortment of ways with selected companies grouping their brands based on price-quality segments. Procter & Gamble (P&G), a multinational consumer goods company that offers over 100 brands, each suited for different consumer needs. For instance, Head & Shoulders that helps consumers relieve dandruff in the form of a shampoo, Oral-B which offers inter-dental products, Vicks which offers cough and cold products, and Downy which offers dryer sheets and fabric softeners. Other examples include Coca-Cola, Nestlé, Kellogg's, and Mars.\n\nThis approach usually results in higher promotion costs and advertising. This is due to the company being required to generate awareness among consumers and retailers for each new brand name without the benefit of any previous impressions. Multibranding strategy has many advantages. There is no risk that a product failure will affect other products in the line as each brand is unique to each market segment. Although, certain large multiband companies have come across that the cost and difficulty of implementing a multibranding strategy can overshadow the benefits. For example, Unilever, the world's third-largest multination consumer goods company recently streamlined its brands from over 400 brands to centre their attention onto 14 brands with sales of over 1 billion euros. Unilever accomplished this through product deletion and sales to other companies. Other multibrand companies introduce new product brands as a protective measure to respond to competition called fighting brands or fighter brands.\n\nThe main purpose of fighting brands is to challenge competitor brands. For example, Qantas, Australia's largest flag carrier airline, introduced Jetstar to go head-to-head against the low-cost carrier, Virgin Australia (formerly known as Virgin Blue). Jetstar is an Australian low-cost airline for budget conscious travellers, but it receives many negative reviews due to this. The launching of Jetstar allowed Qantas to rival Virgin Australia without the criticism being affiliated with Qantas because of the distinct brand name.\n\nPrivate branding (also known as reseller branding, private labelling, store brands, or own brands) have increased in popularity. Private branding is when a company manufactures products but it is sold under the brand name of a wholesaler or retailer. Private branding is popular because it typically produces high profits for manufacturers and resellers. The pricing of private brand product are usually cheaper compared to competing name brands. Consumers are commonly deterred by these prices as it sets a perception of lower quality and standard but these views are shifting.\n\nIn Australia, their leading supermarket chains, both Woolworths and Coles are saturated with store brands (or private labels). For example, in the United States, Paragon Trade Brands, Ralcorp Holdings, and Rayovac are major suppliers of diapers, grocery products, and private label alkaline batteries, correspondingly. Costco, Walmart, RadioShack, Sears, and Kroger are large retailers that have their own brand names. Similarly, Macy's, a mid-range chain of department stores offers a wide catalogue of private brands exclusive to their stores, from brands such as First Impressions which supply newborn and infant clothing, Hotel Collection which supply luxury linens and mattresses, and Tasso Elba which supply European inspired menswear. They use private branding strategy to specifically target consumer markets.\n\nMixed branding strategy is where a firm markets products under its own name(s) and that of a reseller because the segment attracted to the reseller is different from its own market. \nFor example, Elizabeth Arden, Inc., a major American cosmetics and fragrance company, uses mixed branding strategy. The company sells its Elizabeth Arden brand through department stores and line of skin care products at Walmart with the \"skin simple\" brand name. Companies such as Whirlpool, Del Monte, and Dial produce private brands of home appliances, pet foods, and soap, correspondingly. Other examples of mixed branding strategy include Michelin, Epson, Microsoft, Gillette, and Toyota. Michelin, one of the largest tire manufacturers allowed Sears, an American retail chain to place their brand name on the tires. Microsoft, a multinational technology company is seriously regarded as a corporate technology brand but it sells its versatile home entertainment hub under the brand Xbox to better align with the new and crazy identity. Gillette catered to females with Gillette for Women which has now become known as Venus. The launch of Venus was conducted in order to fulfil the feminine market of the previously dominating masculine razor industry. Similarly, Toyota, an automobile manufacturer used mixed branding. In the U.S., Toyota was regarded as a valuable car brand being economical, family orientated and known as a vehicle that rarely broke down. But Toyota sought out to fulfil a higher end, expensive market segment, thus they created Lexus, the luxury vehicle division of premium cars.\n\nAttitude branding is the choice to represent a larger feeling, which is not necessarily connected with the product or consumption of the product at all. Marketing labeled as attitude branding include that of Nike, Starbucks, The Body Shop, Safeway, and Apple Inc.. In the 2000 book \"No Logo\", Naomi Klein describes attitude branding as a \"fetish strategy\". Schaefer and Kuehlwein analyzed brands such as Apple, Ben & Jerry's or Chanel describing them as 'Ueber-Brands' - brands that are able to gain and retain \"meaning beyond the material.\"\nA great brand raises the bar – it adds a greater sense of purpose to the experience, whether it's the challenge to do your best in sports and fitness, or the affirmation that the cup of coffee you're drinking really matters. – Howard Schultz (President, CEO, and Chairman of Starbucks)\n\nIconic brands are defined as having aspects that contribute to consumer's self-expression and personal identity. Brands whose value to consumers comes primarily from having identity value are said to be \"identity brands\". Some of these brands have such a strong identity that they become more or less cultural icons which makes them \"iconic brands\". Examples are: Apple, Nike, and Harley-Davidson. Many iconic brands include almost ritual-like behaviour in purchasing or consuming the products.\n\nThere are four key elements to creating iconic brands (Holt 2004):\n\nSchaefer and Kuehlwein propose the following 'Ueber-Branding' principles. They derived them from studying successful modern Prestige brands and what elevates them above mass competitors and beyond considerations of performance and price (alone) in the minds of consumers:\n\nRecently, a number of companies have successfully pursued \"no-brand\" strategies by creating packaging that imitates generic brand simplicity. Examples include the Japanese company Muji, which means \"No label\" in English (from 無印良品 – \"Mujirushi Ryohin\" – literally, \"No brand quality goods\"), and the Florida company No-Ad Sunscreen. Although there is a distinct Muji brand, Muji products are not branded. This no-brand strategy means that little is spent on advertisement or classical marketing and Muji's success is attributed to the word-of-mouth, a simple shopping experience and the anti-brand movement.\n\"No brand\" branding may be construed as a type of branding as the product is made conspicuous through the absence of a brand name.\n\"Tapa Amarilla\" or \"Yellow Cap\" in Venezuela during the 1980s is another good example of no-brand strategy. It was simply recognized by the color of the cap of this cleaning products company.\n\nIn this case the supplier of a key component, used by a number of suppliers of the end-product, may wish to guarantee its own position by promoting that component as a brand in its own right. The most frequently quoted example is Intel, which positions itself in the PC market with the slogan (and sticker) \"Intel Inside\".\n\nThe existing strong brand name can be used as a vehicle for new or modified products;\nfor example, many fashion and designer companies extended brands into fragrances, shoes and accessories, home textile, home decor, luggage, (sun-) glasses, furniture, hotels, etc.\n\nMars extended its brand to ice cream, Caterpillar to shoes and watches, Michelin to a restaurant guide, Adidas and Puma to personal hygiene. Dunlop extended its brand from tires to other rubber products such as shoes, golf balls, tennis racquets, and adhesives. Frequently, the product is no different from what else is on the market, except a brand name marking. Brand is product identity.\n\nThere is a difference between brand extension and line extension. A line extension is when a current brand name is used to enter a new market segment in the existing product class, with new varieties or flavors or sizes.\nWhen Coca-Cola launched \"Diet Coke\" and \"Cherry Coke\", they stayed within the originating product category: non-alcoholic carbonated beverages. Procter & Gamble (P&G) did likewise extending its strong lines (such as Fairy Soap) into neighboring products (Fairy Liquid and Fairy Automatic) within the same category, dish washing detergents.\n\nThe risk of over-extension is brand dilution where the brand loses its brand associations with a market segment, product area, or quality, price or cachet.\n\nIn 'The Better Mousetrap: Brand Invention in a Media Democracy' (2012), author and brand strategist Simon Pont posits that social media brands may be the most evolved version of the brand form, because they focus not on themselves but on their users. In so doing, social media brands are arguably more charismatic, in that consumers are compelled to spend time with them, because the time spent is in the meeting of fundamental human drivers related to belonging and individualism. \"We wear our physical brands like badges, to help define us – but we use our digital brands to help express who we are. They allow us to be, to hold a mirror up to ourselves, and it is clear. We like what we see.\" \n\nAlternatively, in a market that is fragmented amongst a number of brands a supplier can choose deliberately to launch totally new brands in apparent competition with its own existing strong brand (and often with identical product characteristics); simply to soak up some of the share of the market which will in any case go to minor brands. The rationale is that having 3 out of 12 brands in such a market will give a greater overall share than having 1 out of 10 (even if much of the share of these new brands is taken from the existing one). In its most extreme manifestation, a supplier pioneering a new market which it believes will be particularly attractive may choose immediately to launch a second brand in competition with its first, in order to pre-empt others entering the market. This strategy is widely known as multi-brand strategy.\n\nIndividual brand names naturally allow greater flexibility by permitting a variety of different products, of differing quality, to be sold without confusing the consumer's perception of what\nbusiness the company is in or diluting higher quality products.\n\nProcter & Gamble is a leading exponent of this approach to branding, running as many as ten detergent brands in the US market. This also increases the total number of \"facings\" it receives on supermarket shelves. Sara Lee, on the other hand, uses the approach to keep the very different parts of the business separate—from Sara Lee cakes through Kiwi polishes to L'Eggs pantyhose. In the hotel business, Marriott uses the name Fairfield Inns for its budget chain (and Choice Hotels uses Rodeway for its own cheaper hotels).\n\nCannibalization is a particular challenge with a multi-brand strategy approach, in which the new brand takes business away from an established one which the organization also owns. This may be acceptable (indeed to be expected) if there is a net gain overall. Alternatively, it may be the price the organization is willing to pay for shifting its position in the market; the new product being one stage in this process.\n\nPrivate label brands, also called own brands, or store brands have become popular. Where the retailer has a particularly strong identity (such as Marks & Spencer in the UK clothing sector) this \"own brand\" may be able to compete against even the strongest brand leaders, and may outperform those products that are not otherwise strongly branded.\n\nDesigner Private Labels\n\nA relatively recent innovation in retailing is the introduction of designer private labels. Designer-private labels involve a collaborative contract between a well-known fashion designer and a retailer. Both retailer and designer collaborate to design goods with popular appeal pitched at price points that fit the consumer’s budget. For retail outlets, these types of collaborations give them greater control over the design process as well as access to exclusive store brands that can potentially drive store traffic.\n\nIn Australia, for example, the department store, Myer, now offers a range of exclusive designer private labels including Jayson Brundson, Karen Walker, Leona Edmiston, Wayne Cooper, Fleur Wood and ‘L’ for Lisa Ho. Another up-market department store, David Jones, currently offers ‘Collette’ for leading Australian designer, Collette Dinnigan, and has recently announced its intention to extend the number of exclusive designer brands. Target has teamed up with Danii Minogue to produce her “Petites’ range. Specsavers has joined up with Sydney designer, Alex Perry to create an exclusive range of spectacle frames while Big W stocks frames designed by Peter Morrissey.\n\nWith the development of brand, Branding is no longer limited to a product or service. There are kinds of branding that treat individuals and organizations as the products to be branded. Most NGOs and non-profit organizations carry their brand as a fundraising tool. The purpose of most NGOs is leave social impact so their brand become associated with specific social life matters. Amnesty International, Habitat for Humanity, World Wildlife Fund and AIESEC are among the most recognized brands around the world. NGOs and non-profit organizations moved beyond using their brands for fundraising to express their internal identity and to clarify their social goals and long-term aims. Organizational brands have well determined brand guidelines and logo variables.\n\nThese are brands that are created by \"the public\" for the business, which is opposite to the traditional method where the business create a brand.\n\nMany businesses have started to use elements of personalisation in their branding strategies, offering the client or consumer the ability to choose from various brand options or have direct control over the brand. Examples of this include the #ShareACoke campaign by Coca-Cola which printed people's names and place names on their bottles encouraging people. AirBNB has created the facility for users to create their own symbol for the software to replace the brand's mark known as The Bélo.\n\nNation branding is a field of theory and practice which aims to measure, build and manage the reputation of countries (closely related to place branding). Some approaches applied, such as an increasing importance on the symbolic value of products, have led countries to emphasise their distinctive characteristics. The branding and image of a nation-state \"and the successful transference of this image to its exports – is just as important as what they actually produce and sell.\"\n\nDestination branding is the work of cities, states, and other localities to promote to themselves. This work is designed to promote the location to tourists and drive additional revenues into a tax base. These activities are often undertaken by governments, but can also result from the work of community associations. The Destination Marketing Association International is the industry leading organization.\n\nA doppelgänger brand image or \"DBI\" is a disparaging image or story about a brand that it circulated in popular culture. DBI targets tend to be widely known and recognizable brands. The purpose of DBIs is to undermine the positive brand meanings the brand owners are trying to instill through their marketing activities.\n\nThe term stems from the combination of the German words \"doppel\" (double) and \"gänger\" (walker).\n\nDoppelgänger brands are typically created by individuals or groups to express criticism of a brand and its perceived values, through a form of parody, and are typically unflattering in nature.\n\nDue to the ability of Doppelgänger brands to rapidly propagate virally through digital media channels, they can represent a real threat to the equity of the target brand. Sometimes the target organization is forced to address the root concern or to re-position the brand in a way that defuses the criticism.\n\nExamples include:\nIn the 2006 article \"Emotional Branding and the Strategic Value of the Doppelgänger Brand Image\", Thompson, Rindfleisch, and Arsel suggest that a doppelgänger brand image can be a benefit to a brand if taken as an early warning sign that the brand is losing emotional authenticity with its market.\n"}
{"id": "113604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113604", "title": "Broadcasting", "text": "Broadcasting\n\nBroadcasting is the distribution of audio or video content to a dispersed audience via any electronic mass communications medium, but typically one using the electromagnetic spectrum (radio waves), in a one-to-many model. Broadcasting began with AM radio, which came into popular use around 1920 with the spread of vacuum tube radio transmitters and receivers. Before this, all forms of electronic communication (early radio, telephone, and telegraph) were one-to-one, with the message intended for a single recipient. The term \"broadcasting\" evolved from its use as the agricultural method of sowing seeds in a field by casting them broadly about. It was later adopted for describing the widespread distribution of information by printed materials or by telegraph. Examples applying it to \"one-to-many\" radio transmissions of an individual station to multiple listeners appeared as early as 1898.\n\nOver the air broadcasting is usually associated with radio and television, though in recent years, both radio and television transmissions have begun to be distributed by cable (cable television). The receiving parties may include the general public or a relatively small subset; the point is that anyone with the appropriate receiving technology and equipment (e.g., a radio or television set) can receive the signal. The field of broadcasting includes both government-managed services such as public radio, community radio and public television, and private commercial radio and commercial television. The U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, title 47, part 97 defines \"broadcasting\" as \"transmissions intended for reception by the general public, either direct or relayed\". Private or two-way telecommunications transmissions do not qualify under this definition. For example, amateur (\"ham\") and citizens band (CB) radio operators are not allowed to broadcast. As defined, \"transmitting\" and \"broadcasting\" are not the same.\n\nTransmission of radio and television programs from a radio or television station to home receivers by radio waves is referred to as \"over the air\" (OTA) or terrestrial broadcasting and in most countries requires a broadcasting license. Transmissions using a wire or cable, like cable television (which also retransmits OTA stations with their consent), are also considered broadcasts but do not necessarily require a license (though in some countries, a license is required). In the 2000s, transmissions of television and radio programs via streaming digital technology have increasingly been referred to as broadcasting as well.\n\nThe earliest broadcasting consisted of sending telegraph signals over the airwaves, using Morse code, a system developed in the 1830s by Samuel F.B. Morse, physicist Joseph Henry and Alfred Vail. They developed an electrical telegraph system which sent pulses of electric current along wires which controlled an electromagnet that was located at the receiving end of the telegraph system. A code was needed to transmit natural language using only these pulses, and the silence between them. Morse therefore developed the forerunner to modern International Morse code. This was particularly important for ship-to-ship and ship-to-shore communication, but it became increasingly important for business and general news reporting, and as an arena for personal communication by radio amateurs (Douglas, op. cit.). Audio broadcasting began experimentally in the first decade of the 20th century. By the early 1920s radio broadcasting became a household medium, at first on the AM band and later on FM. Television broadcasting started experimentally in the 1920s and became widespread after World War II, using VHF and UHF spectrum. Satellite broadcasting was initiated in the 1960s and moved into general industry usage in the 1970s, with DBS (Direct Broadcast Satellites) emerging in the 1980s.\n\nOriginally all broadcasting was composed of analog signals using analog transmission techniques but in the 2000s, broadcasters have switched to digital signals using digital transmission. In general usage, broadcasting most frequently refers to the transmission of information and entertainment programming from various sources to the general public.\n\nThe world's technological capacity to receive information through one-way broadcast networks more than quadrupled during the two decades from 1986 to 2007, from 432 exabytes of (optimally compressed) information, to 1.9 zettabytes. This is the information equivalent of 55 newspapers per person per day in 1986, and 175 newspapers per person per day by 2007.\n\nHistorically, there have been several methods used for broadcasting electronic media audio and video to the general public:\n\nThere are several means of providing financial support for continuous broadcasting:\n\nBroadcasters may rely on a combination of these business models. For example, in the United States, National Public Radio (NPR) and the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS, television) supplement public membership subscriptions and grants with funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), which is allocated bi-annually by Congress. US public broadcasting corporate and charitable grants are generally given in consideration of underwriting spots which differ from commercial advertisements in that they are governed by specific FCC restrictions, which prohibit the advocacy of a product or a \"call to action\".\n\nThe first regular television broadcasts started in 1937. Broadcasts can be classified as \"recorded\" or \"live\". The former allows correcting errors, and removing superfluous or undesired material, rearranging it, applying slow-motion and repetitions, and other techniques to enhance the program. However, some live events like sports television can include some of the aspects including slow-motion clips of important goals/hits, etc., in between the live television telecast. American radio-network broadcasters habitually forbade prerecorded broadcasts in the 1930s and 1940s requiring radio programs played for the Eastern and Central time zones to be repeated three hours later for the Pacific time zone (See: Effects of time on North American broadcasting). This restriction was dropped for special occasions, as in the case of the German dirigible airship \"Hindenburg\" disaster at Lakehurst, New Jersey, in 1937. During World War II, prerecorded broadcasts from war correspondents were allowed on U.S. radio. In addition, American radio programs were recorded for playback by Armed Forces Radio radio stations around the world.\n\nA disadvantage of recording first is that the public may know the outcome of an event from another source, which may be a \"spoiler\". In addition, prerecording prevents live radio announcers from deviating from an officially approved script, as occurred with propaganda broadcasts from Germany in the 1940s and with Radio Moscow in the 1980s. Many events are advertised as being live, although they are often \"recorded live\" (sometimes called \"live-to-tape\"). This is particularly true of performances of musical artists on radio when they visit for an in-studio concert performance. Similar situations have occurred in television production (\"\"The Cosby Show\" is recorded in front of a live television studio audience\") and news broadcasting.\n\nA broadcast may be distributed through several physical means. If coming directly from the radio studio at a single station or television station, it is simply sent through the studio/transmitter link to the transmitter and hence from the television antenna located on the radio masts and towers out to the world. Programming may also come through a communications satellite, played either live or recorded for later transmission. Networks of stations may simulcast the same programming at the same time, originally via microwave link, now usually by satellite. Distribution to stations or networks may also be through physical media, such as magnetic tape, compact disc (CD), DVD, and sometimes other formats. Usually these are included in another broadcast, such as when electronic news gathering (ENG) returns a story to the station for inclusion on a news programme.\n\nThe final leg of broadcast distribution is how the signal gets to the listener or viewer. It may come over the air as with a radio station or television station to an antenna and radio receiver, or may come through cable television or cable radio (or \"wireless cable\") via the station or directly from a network. The Internet may also bring either internet radio or streaming media television to the recipient, especially with multicasting allowing the signal and bandwidth to be shared. The term \"broadcast network\" is often used to distinguish networks that broadcast an over-the-air television signals that can be received using a tuner (television) inside a television set with a television antenna from so-called networks that are broadcast only via cable television (cablecast) or satellite television that uses a dish antenna. The term \"broadcast television\" can refer to the television programs of such networks.\n\nThe sequencing of content in a broadcast is called a schedule. As with all technological endeavors, a number of technical terms and slang have developed. A list of these terms can be found at List of broadcasting terms. Television and radio programs are distributed through radio broadcasting or cable, often both simultaneously. By coding signals and having a cable converter box with decoding equipment in homes, the latter also enables subscription-based channels, pay-tv and pay-per-view services. In his essay, John Durham Peters wrote that communication is a tool used for dissemination. Durham stated, \"Dissemination is a lens—sometimes a usefully distorting one—that helps us tackle basic issues such as interaction, presence, and space and time...on the agenda of any future communication theory in general\" (Durham, 211). Dissemination focuses on the message being relayed from one main source to one large audience without the exchange of dialogue in between. It is possible for the message to be changed or corrupted by government officials once the main source releases it. There is no way to predetermine how the larger population or audience will absorb the message. They can choose to listen, analyze, or simply ignore it. Dissemination in communication is widely used in the world of broadcasting.\n\nBroadcasting focuses on getting a message out and it is up to the general public to do what they wish with it. Durham also states that broadcasting is used to address an open-ended destination (Durham, 212). There are many forms of broadcasting, but they all aim to distribute a signal that will reach the target audience. Broadcasters typically arrange audiences into entire assemblies (Durham, 213). In terms of media broadcasting, a radio show can gather a large number of followers who tune in every day to specifically listen to that specific disc jockey. The disc jockey follows the script for his or her radio show and just talks into the microphone. He or she does not expect immediate feedback from any listeners. The message is broadcast across airwaves throughout the community, but there the listeners cannot always respond immediately, especially since many radio shows are recorded prior to the actual air time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489870", "title": "Buffer zone", "text": "Buffer zone\n\nA buffer zone is generally a zonal area that lies between two or more other areas (often, but not necessarily, countries), but depending on the type of buffer zone, the reason for it may be to segregate regions or to conjoin them.\nCommon types of buffer zones are demilitarized zones, border zones and certain restrictive easement zones and green belts. Such zones may be, but not necessarily be, comprised by a sovereign state, forming a buffer state.\n\nBuffer zones have various purposes, political or otherwise. They can be set up to prevent violence, protect the environment, protect residential and commercial zones from industrial accidents or natural disasters, keep prisoners intent on escaping from rapidly acquiring hostages or a hiding place, and have uses in several other scenarios. Buffer zones often result in large uninhabited regions which are themselves noteworthy in many increasingly developed or crowded parts of the world.\n\nFor use in nature conservation, a buffer zone is often created to enhance the protection of areas under management for their biodiversity importance. The buffer zone of a protected area may be situated around the periphery of the region or may be a connecting zone within it which links two or more protected areas, therefore increasing their dynamics and conservation productivity. A buffer zone can also be one of the protected area categories (e.g. category V or VI of IUCN Protected Area) or a classification scheme (e.g. NATURA 2000) depending on the conservation objective. The term 'buffer zone' initially gained prominence in the conservation of natural and cultural heritage through its usage in the establishment of UNESCO's World Heritage Convention, and the term was intended to be used as follows:\n—World Heritage Convention\n\nThe buffer zone is one of the Best Management Practices (BMPs). A buffer zone is intended to avert the effect of negative environmental or human influences, whether or not it embodies great natural or cultural value itself. The importance and function of a buffer zone and the necessary protective measures derived thereof is a relatively new concept in conservation science and can differ greatly for each site.\n\nIt shows that the quality of surface water in many countries is getting worse because humans do not use land properly. Although the buffer zone occupies a small area, it greatly improves the quality of water in the agricultural watershed due to its filtering effect on nutrients in the underground water and surface water. \n\nBecause farmland is sprayed with large amounts of pesticides, some of which can seep into surface water. It will have a negative impact on fish and other aquatic life, which can lead to environmental damage. Vegetation buffer has been proved to be an effective filter for sediment, especially for sediment-bound pesticides. When pesticides are sprayed in excess, a vegetation buffer can be built to reduce the penetration of pesticides into surface water. The buffer zone also prevents heavy metals or toxins from spreading to protected areas. \n\nWhen the riverbanks are low, due to the plant root can enter the interior of the riverbank vertically, the sediment of riverbank is affected by the action of plant root, and the ability to resist erosion is higher than that without plant root. But when the riverbanks are higher, the roots of the plants do not penetrate deeply into the soil, and the lakeshore soil is not very strong. Herbaceous plants can play a role to some extent, but in the long term, vegetation buffer zone can effectively solve the problem of water level rise and water erosion. \n\nThe adsorption capacity of buffer zone can reduce the speed of surface runoff and increase the effective water content of soil. Through increasing soil organic matter content and improving soil structure, it has a positive effect on soil water storage performance. In addition, plant roots make the soil stronger, withstand waves and rainstorm, mitigate the erosion of riverbanks by floods, and effectively control the erosion of the beach. \n\nThe riparian buffer zones have been used in many areas to protect the habitats of many animals which are being devastated by increased human activity. The areas around the buffer zone can form the habitat of many animals, the woody parts and leaves of plants can become food for small aquatic animals. The buffer zone itself can also support the life activities of various amphibians and birds. Plants and animals can migrate or spread in response to these buffer zones and then increasing the biodiversity in the area. \n\nA study shows that the species and number of animals and plants in riparian zones are higher than in other ecosystems. Because of their ability to provide abundant water, soft soil and stable climate, small animals such as \"Myotis\" and \"Martes\" prefer to live along riverbanks rather than in hilly areas. The buffer zone can also provide a good environment for upland habitat, which is in line with the living conditions of freshwater turtles, making them more dependent on the wetland environment. The protection level of the buffer zones will affect the habitat range of amphibians and reptiles, and the environmental management of the wetland habitat around buffer zone is extremely important. \n\nAs an important part of riparian zone, the vegetation buffer zones form a variety of landscape, and the landscape pattern of combining land and water improves the aesthetic value of river basin landscape. The riparian buffer is rich in plant resources, and the wetland, grassland and forest ecosystem make the landscape more beautiful. In addition, some recreational facilities can be built in the buffer zone to provide better living conditions for residents or tourists and improve people's quality of life. \n\nIn the buffer zone, those trees up to 6 meters tall greatly enhance the aesthetic value of the landscape. These tall trees have luxuriant branches and leaves, especially their upright posture, making them of higher ornamental value. Some colorful landscape tree species can be planted on both sides of rivers with tourism and sightseeing value to improve the aesthetic value of the place. The establishment of vegetation buffer zone can increase green land, improve forest coverage, beautify environment and visual effect, improve people's living environment, enrich humanistic landscape and enhance aesthetic value. we need to call on people to pay attention to the importance of the buffer zone, encourage local residents to participate in the protection and management of the buffer zone, and set up checkpoints around the buffer zone to make it more secure and effective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38976600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38976600", "title": "CENTRIXS", "text": "CENTRIXS\n\nThe Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System (CENTRIXS) is a collection of classified coalition networks, called enclaves, that enable information sharing through the use of email and Web services, instant messaging or chat, the Common Operational Picture service, and Voice over IP. CENTRIXS supports combatant commands throughout the world, including the U.S. Pacific, Central and European commands.\n\nSome of the CENTRIXS networks are: \n\nUnited States Central Command (USCENTCOM) began envisioning and exploring a coalition data-sharing network in early 1999.\n\nAt the onset of the global war on terrorism, as USCENTCOM prepared to conduct Operation ENDURING FREEDOM (OEF) in late 2001, efforts focused on speeding the development of just such a network. Additionally, the global nature of the war on terrorism demanded that CENTRIXS become a global multinational information sharing initiative.\n\nThe CENTRIXS Program Office (CPMO) was established by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration in late January 2002. The CPMO was responsible to coordinate the planning, resources, and implementation of CENTRIXS world-wide to support the combatant commands.\n\nMost CENTRIXS-ISAF and CENTRIXS-GCTF have been migrated to the newly created CENTCOM Partner Network (CPN).\n\n"}
{"id": "9127475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9127475", "title": "Chiquitano language", "text": "Chiquitano language\n\nChiquitano (also \"Bésiro\" or \"Tarapecosi\") is an indigenous language isolate of eastern Bolivia, spoken in the central region of the Santa Cruz province.\n\nChiquitano is a language isolate. Greenberg linked it to the Macro-Jê languages in his discredited proposal, which was never substantiated.\n\nAccording to traditional sources, dialects were \"tao (yúnkarirsh), piñoco, penoqui, kusikia, manasi, san simoniano, churapa.\"\n\nChiquitano has regressive assimilation triggered by nasal nuclei and targeting consonant onsets within a morpheme.\n\nThe language has CV, CVV, and CVC syllables. It does not allow complex onsets or codas. The only codas allowed are nasal consonants.\n\n"}
{"id": "412555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412555", "title": "Circuit party", "text": "Circuit party\n\nA circuit party is a large dance event. It extends through the night and into the following day, almost always with a number of affiliated events in the days leading up to and following the main event. Proto-circuit parties in the late 1970s, the precursors of what later became circuit parties, were called disco parties. They lasted only one evening and were held in various large venues in metropolitan areas with large gay populations.\n\nCircuit parties were first developed in connection with the early tea dances attended by a subset of gay men, as well as theme parties held on Fire Island, in the days before the beginning of the health crisis of HIV/AIDS. They came to resemble underground rave parties in some respects, but differ in that circuit parties are highly publicized and professionally produced, and tend to attract people from a wider age range and a broader geographic area.\n\nThe start of the circuit has been attributed to many different parties that sprang up during the time-frame of the late 1970s and early 1980s. These proto-circuit parties in the late 1970s, the precursors of what later became circuit parties, were called \"disco parties.\" They lasted one evening only, and were held in various large venues in metropolitan areas with large gay populations. Although Flamingo and 12 West were New York clubs that had theme-centered gay parties, these nightclubs were eclipsed by the opening of the mega-nightclub, The Saint, in the East Village in 1980. This members-only male (with very limited exceptions) club was very technologically advanced. Some say its like has not been recreated since.\n\nThe Saint, which was constructed inside the renovated space that had once housed the renowned Fillmore East theatre, featured a dome-covered dance floor, the dome being suspended in mid-air, and a complete planetarium mechanism that projected a starscape onto the dome above the dance floor. While open every weekend beginning in September, The Saint's once monthly parties became marathon events that drew gay men from around the world. These parties created the concept of a single party being the focal point for a weekend get-away in the gay community.\n\nWhat was to become another circuit party was founded during the same time period by Corbett Reynolds, a Columbus, Ohio-based artist and nightclub owner in the late 1970s. Initially, Reynolds envisioned a one-night party-to-end-all-parties, designed around the theme of the color Red (hence the name \"Red Party\"), which was to be held at Reynolds' nightclub, “Rudely Elegant.”\n\nThe Red Party proved to be so successful, and drew so many outside visitors, that it filled the Valley Dale Dance Hall to capacity and became an annual event, outliving the closure of the bar in the early 1980s. Reynolds was a true artist, creating complete party-scapes all in red. On the 25th anniversary of the Red Party, the theme of which was to have been \"Rome\", Mr. Reynolds died. Those in charge of his estate thought about how, if at all, to continue the event and, in the end, decided to retire the concept of the \"Red Party\" and leave it to history.\n\nThe early 1980s saw the start of the AIDS crisis, and entire communities were affected. Several benefit parties sprang up around the country, which were run by volunteer organizations that donated their proceeds to AIDS|HIV-related charities, such as \"Halloween's in New Orleans\" The success of these early parties gave way to other events hosted in other cities, with each party having its own theme. Many were named after colors, such as \"White Party\", \"Black Party\", \"Blue Ball\", and \"Black and Blue Festival\". And many center around other events, such as \"Southern Decadence\" and the Folsom Street Fair. Dance parties provided an environment in which gay men processed the experience of HIV/AIDS and served to build particular forms of communal response to the epidemic \nOne economic reality of a well-run circuit party is that the event can bring large amounts of tourist dollars to the locality where the event is held. Because of their economic impact, Circuit parties have actually been welcomed into some of the more liberal cities where they are held.\n\nIn early 1990s, as more and more gay men became attracted to these mega dance-events, the real modern day circuit party scene emerged and expand into ever-larger productions, featuring superstar DJs and performers. Promoters sometimes turned events from one party into a major series of parties at various venues, transforming a weekend into a three-day or longer continuous party. For example, a pool party might go from noon to 5PM, a \"t-dance\" from 5PM to 9PM, a main event from 9PM to 4AM, and an after-hours party from 4AM until 12 noon, after which the cycle repeats itself.\n\nTo keep putting together these increasingly elaborate and costly productions, the prices (cover charge) of circuit parties increased greatly, so that it was not uncommon for a ticket covering the full weekend of parties to cost $400 or more.\n\nHaving reached its peak around 1999–2000 (as evidenced by the total number of events during those years, and the steady decline in the number of events since), the Circuit found itself a smaller part of a much larger whole. In 2004, \"The New York Times\" travel section featured an in-depth look at The White Party in Palm Springs in conjunction with staff members of \"Noizemag\". The central focus was to determine why thousands of men spend multi-thousands of dollars to travel to this yearly event. Taken from the viewpoint of an experienced (female) raver, this gave the mainstream a view into what makes Circuit Parties so compelling for many and highlighted many of the changes taking place in these commercial events.\n\nNonetheless, the downward trend continued through the entire decade, with the downfall of a dozen events such as The Red Party, FireBall, Hotlanta, The Morning Party, Hell Ball, Reunion, and Motorball.\n\nIn the early 2000s, promoters became worried as attendance decreased dramatically at many circuit events. This decline in attendance was attributed to several factors. The original circuit audience that began attending the circuit parties of the '80s and '90s had grown older and no longer had such an active interest in multi-day partying. The communal experience of HIV/AIDS changed in the context of the availability of more effective treatments. In addition, all-gay cruises, which attract upwards of 1,500 passengers, have had a dramatic impact on the attendance at circuit parties.\n\nMuch had been said about the decline of the Circuit in recent years. Some parties have disappeared from the landscape. But the scene continues to thrive in many places with attendance rebounding from the dip that occurred after the new Millennium. This is especially true at the better produced events, like Black and Blue in Montreal, and events that have more than just a circuit party to offer, such as Southern Decadence weekend in New Orleans. Also, all-gay cruises that carry upwards of 2,000 passengers on week-long excursions to exotic ports continue to be very popular.\n\nCircuit parties are currently organized in many international cities, each of them having another leading company, such as Rapido in Amsterdam, Matinee and WE Party in London and Madrid.\n\nCircuit parties seem to gain widespread popularity again. This resulted in the annually organized Circuit Festival by the Matinée Group since 2008. Circuit Festival is currently the biggest international gay and lesbian event, hosting more than 50 DJ's every year during twelve days of circuit parties, bringing together all leading international circuit brands in Barcelona. In 2017, it attracted over 70,000 gay visitors.\n\nObservers within the gay and medical communities have published concerns about the culture of circuit parties, particularly the use of drugs including: alcohol, marijuana, methamphetamine, ecstasy, ketamine, GHB, amyl nitrite, and other \"party drugs\". They point to the risks of overdose, dehydration, and impaired judgment leading to unsafe sex and transmission of sexually transmitted diseases (see \"Sexual Ecology\"). Circuit parties have been blamed for the spread of methamphetamine abuse and the rise in transmission of STDs, particularly HIV, among North American gay men.\n\nWhile open to anyone, the parties generally are viewed as social events for gay men. Circuit parties charge admission, with some being run for-profit and others benefiting charities, generally those that benefit the LGBT communities or HIV/health related programs. Circuit parties are typically lavish affairs with elaborate lighting, music, and decor and are held in venues that can accommodate large crowds.\n\nSome of the larger circuit parties are the White Party in Palm Springs, the Black and Blue Party in Montreal, and the Winter Party in Miami, each of which attracts attendees in the thousands to tens of thousands. The White Party in Miami, Florida is now the longest running Circuit event and for twenty-four years has been held at Villa Vizcaya. White Party Miami is referred to as the Crown Jewel of the Circuit.\n\nCircuit parties are known to attract a broad range of demographics, from young gay men in their early 20s to those in their 40s, 50s and even 60s, and both single gay men and couples in long-term relationships. The parties are described by attendees as very important social events, analogous to a major holiday for the gay community. They can be described as a \"celebration\" of gay life and gay sexuality, an expression of freedom, and as a statement of the power and strength of the gay community.\n\nCircuit parties are not without controversy, and they are often perceived by outsiders as characterized by a high degree of superficiality; moreover those who attend them are often the target of broad and negative judgments by others in the gay community, usually because of the amount of promiscuous sex and drug use that is often perceived to be associated with the events. A small body of empirical research from different research groups does, indeed, point to a high prevalence of drug use among people who attend circuit events during the course of the events and raises questions about an association between drug use and risky sex practices among gay and bisexual men Circuit parties frequently host celebrity performers or headliners, usually gay icons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15478583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15478583", "title": "Dirasha language", "text": "Dirasha language\n\nDirasha (also known as Ghidole, Diraasha, Dirayta, Gidole, Gardulla, Dhirasha) is a member of the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. It is spoken in the Omo region of Ethiopia, in the hills west of Lake Chamo, around the town of Gidole.\n\nA number of speakers also use Oromo or Konso. According to Wondwosen, the \"Dirasha\" is the name of the people, and the name of the language is given variously as \"Dirashitata, Dirayta and Diraytata\" (2006:3,4).\n\nThe language has a three ejective consonant phonemes and two implosive consonant phonemes, fitting the pattern of the Ethiopian Language Area. It has two tones and five vowels. Duration (or gemination) is distinctive for both consonants and vowels (Wondwosen 2006:9,10).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25024736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25024736", "title": "Eastern Oromo language", "text": "Eastern Oromo language\n\nEastern Oromo (also known as \"Ittu Oromo\" or \"Qottu Oromo\") is a dialect of the Oromo language. It is spoken in the East Hararghe Zone, West Hararghe Zone and northern Bale Zone of the Oromia Region of Ethiopia.\n\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\", a 1994 census reported 4,530,000 speakers of this dialect. However, the 1994 Ethiopian national census did not break down language speakers according to dialect, although it reported 2,570,293 speakers of Oromo in those two zones.\n\n"}
{"id": "33096342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33096342", "title": "Ebert test", "text": "Ebert test\n\nThe Ebert test gauges whether a computer-based synthesized voice can tell a joke with sufficient skill to cause people to laugh. It was proposed by film critic Roger Ebert at the 2011 TED conference as a challenge to software developers to have a computerized voice master the inflections, delivery, timing, and intonations of a speaking human. The test is similar to the Turing test proposed by Alan Turing in 1950 as a way to gauge a computer's ability to exhibit intelligent behavior by generating performance indistinguishable from a human being.\n\nEbert lost his voice after surgery to treat cancer. He employed a Scottish company called CereProc, which custom-tailors text-to-speech software for voiceless customers who record their voices at length before losing them, and mined tapes and DVD commentaries featuring Ebert to create a voice that sounded more like his own voice. He first publicly used the voice they devised for him in his March 2, 2010 appearance on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58617", "title": "Fact", "text": "Fact\n\nA fact is something that is consistent with objective reality or that can be proven with evidence. The usual test for a statement of fact is verifiability — that is whether it can be demonstrated to correspond to experience. Standard reference works are often used to check facts. Scientific facts are verified by repeatable careful observation or measurement by experiments or other means.\n\nThe word \"fact\" derives from the Latin \"factum\", and was first used in English with the same meaning: \"a thing done or performed\" a meaning now obsolete. The common usage of \"something that has really occurred or is the case\" dates from the middle of the sixteenth century.\n\nFact is sometimes used synonymously with \"truth\", as distinct from opinions, falsehoods, or matters of taste. This use is found in such phrases as, \"It is a fact that the cup is blue\" or \"Matter of fact\", and \"... not history, nor fact, but imagination.\" Filmmaker Werner Herzog distinguishes between the two, claiming that \"Fact creates norms, and truth illumination.\"\n\nFact also indicates a \"matter under discussion\" deemed to be true or correct, such as to emphasize a point or prove a disputed issue; (e.g., \"... the \"fact\" of the matter is ...\").\n\nAlternatively, \"fact\" may also indicate an \"allegation or stipulation\" of something that may or may not be a \"true fact\", (e.g., \"the author's facts are not trustworthy\"). This alternate usage, although contested by some, has a long history in standard English.\n\nFact may also indicate findings derived through a \"process of evaluation\", including review of testimony, direct observation, or otherwise; as distinguishable from matters of inference or speculation. This use is reflected in the terms \"fact-find\" and \"fact-finder\" (e.g., \"set up a fact-finding commission\").\n\nFacts may be checked by reason, experiment, personal experience, or may be argued from authority. Roger Bacon wrote \"If in other sciences we should arrive at certainty without doubt and truth without error, it behooves us to place the foundations of knowledge in mathematics.\"\n\nIn philosophy, the concept \"fact\" is considered in epistemology and ontology. Questions of objectivity and truth are closely associated with questions of fact. A \"fact\" can be defined as something that is the case—that is, a state of affairs.\n\nFacts may be understood as information that makes a true sentence true. Facts may also be understood as those things to which a true sentence refers. The statement \"Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system\" is \"about\" the fact Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system.\n\nPascal Engel's version of the correspondence theory of truth explains that what makes a sentence true is that it \"corresponds\" to a fact.\nThis theory presupposes the existence of an objective world.\n\nThe Slingshot argument claims to show that all true statements stand for the same thing - the truth value \"true\". If this argument holds, and facts are taken to be what true statements stand for, then we reach the counter-intuitive conclusion that there is only one fact - \"the truth\".\n\nAny non-trivial true statement about reality is necessarily an abstraction composed of a complex of objects and properties or relations. For example, the fact described by the true statement \"Paris is the capital city of France\" implies that there is such a place as Paris, there is such a place as France, there are such things as capital cities, as well as that France has a government, that the government of France has the power to define its capital city, and that the French government has chosen Paris to be the capital, that there is such a thing as a \"place\" or a \"government\", and so on. The verifiable accuracy of all of these assertions, if facts themselves, may coincide to create the fact that Paris is the capital of France.\n\nDifficulties arise, however, in attempting to identify the constituent parts of negative, modal, disjunctive, or moral facts.\n\nMoral philosophers since David Hume have debated whether values are objective, and thus factual. In \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" Hume pointed out there is no obvious way for a series of statements about what \"ought\" to be the case to be derived from a series of statements of what \"is\" the case. Those who insist there is a logical gulf between facts and values, such that it is fallacious to attempt to derive values from facts, include G. E. Moore, who called attempting to do so the naturalistic fallacy.\n\nFactuality—what has occurred—can also be contrasted with counterfactuality:\nwhat \"might have\" occurred, but did not. A counterfactual conditional or subjunctive conditional is a conditional (or \"if-then\") statement indicating what \"would be\" the case if events had been other than they were. For example, \"If Alexander had lived, his empire would have been greater than Rome.\" This contrasts with an indicative conditional, which indicates what \"is\" (in fact) the case if its antecedent \"is\" (in fact) true—for example, \"If you drink this, it will make you well.\"\n\nSuch sentences are important to modal logic, especially since the development of possible world semantics.\n\nIn science, a \"fact\" is a repeatable careful observation or measurement (by experimentation or other means), also called empirical evidence. Facts are central to building scientific theories. Various forms of observation and measurement lead to fundamental questions about the scientific method, and the scope and validity of scientific reasoning.\n\nIn the most basic sense, a scientific \"fact\" is an objective and verifiable observation, in contrast with a \"hypothesis\" or \"theory\", which is intended to explain or interpret facts.\n\nVarious scholars have offered significant refinements to this basic formulation. Scientists are careful to distinguish between: 1) \"states of affairs\" in the external world and 2) \"assertions\" of fact that may be considered relevant in scientific analysis. The term is used in both senses in the philosophy of science.\n\nScholars and clinical researchers in both the social and natural sciences have written about numerous questions and theories that arise in the attempt to clarify the fundamental nature of scientific fact. Pertinent issues raised by this inquiry include:\n\nConsistent with the idea of confirmation holism, some scholars assert \"fact\" to be necessarily \"theory-laden\" to some degree. Thomas Kuhn points out that knowing what facts to measure, and how to measure them, requires the use of other theories. For example, the age of fossils is based on radiometric dating, which is justified by reasoning that radioactive decay follows a Poisson process rather than a Bernoulli process. Similarly, Percy Williams Bridgman is credited with the methodological position known as operationalism, which asserts that all observations are not only influenced, but necessarily defined by the means and assumptions used to measure them.\n\nApart from the fundamental inquiry into the nature of scientific fact, there remain the practical and social considerations of how fact is investigated, established, and substantiated through the proper application of the scientific method. Scientific facts are generally believed independent of the observer: no matter who performs a scientific experiment, all observers agree on the outcome.\nIn addition to these considerations, there are the social and institutional measures, such as peer review and accreditation, that are intended to promote \"factual accuracy\" (among other interests) in scientific study.\n\nA common rhetorical cliché states, \"History is written by the winners.\" This phrase suggests but does not examine the use of facts in the writing of history.\n\nE. H. Carr in his 1961 volume \"What is History?\" argues that the inherent biases from the gathering of facts makes the objective truth of any historical perspective idealistic and impossible. Facts are, \"like fish in the Ocean,\" of which we may only happen to catch a few, only an indication of what is below the surface. Even a dragnet cannot tell us for certain what it would be like to live below the Ocean's surface. Even if we do not discard any facts (or fish) presented, we will always miss the majority; the site of our fishing, the methods undertaken, the weather and even luck play a vital role in what we will catch. Additionally, the composition of history is inevitably made up by the compilation of many different biases of fact finding - all compounded over time. He concludes that for a historian to attempt a more objective method, one must accept that history can only aspire to a conversation of the present with the past - and that one's methods of fact gathering should be openly examined. Historical truth and facts therefore change over time, and reflect only the present consensus (if that).\n\nIn most common law jurisdictions, the general concept and analysis of fact reflects fundamental principles of jurisprudence, and is supported by several well-established standards. Matters of fact have various formal definitions under common law jurisdictions.\n\nThese include:\n\n\n\nA party to a civil suit generally must clearly state all relevant allegations of fact that form the basis of a claim. The requisite level of precision and particularity of these allegations varies, depending on the rules of civil procedure and jurisdiction. Parties who face uncertainties regarding facts and circumstances attendant to their side in a dispute may sometimes invoke alternative pleading. In this situation, a party may plead separate sets of facts that (when considered together) may be contradictory or mutually exclusive. This (seemingly) logically-inconsistent presentation of facts may be necessary as a safeguard against contingencies (such as \"res judicata\") that would otherwise preclude presenting a claim or defense that depends on a particular interpretation of the underlying facts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820027", "title": "Final protective fire", "text": "Final protective fire\n\nFinal protective fire refers to a tactical plan for a military unit, set up in support of the infantry, to protect itself against overwhelming attack. Final protective fire (\"FPF\") is a request for artillery support (a \"fire mission\") generally reserved for a unit being overrun, and has absolute priority over any other kind of request.\n\nA final protective fire is an immediately available preplanned barrier of direct and indirect fire designed to provide close protection to friendly positions and installations by impeding enemy movement into defensive areas.\n\nThe size of the FPF depends on the number and type of weapons firing (e.g., FPF size for one battery of 155 mm howitzers is 300 m × 50 m). The supported maneuver commander designates the location of the FPF and it is adjusted into place by the forward observer. Normally, the FPF is within 200 to 400 meters of friendly positions (known as \"danger close\") and is integrated into the final protective line of the maneuver unit.\n\nAs the \"final\" in the name implies, it is the last resort in defensive plans, involving artillery integrated with small arms and heavy machine gun fire directed dangerously close to friendly defensive positions that are at risk of being overrun by the enemy.\n\nFinal Protective Fire is commonly also incorporated into a defensive plan that incorporates a Final Protective Line, in which the Final Protective Line is a line that once the enemy has crossed, the FPF plan is enacted.\n\nReference: ATP 3-09.30\n"}
{"id": "4309428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4309428", "title": "Gerry Alanguilan", "text": "Gerry Alanguilan\n\nDoroteo Gerardo N. \"Gerry\" Alanguilan, Jr. (born January 20, 1968), better known in the Philippines by his stage name Komikero, is a Filipino comic book artist and writer from San Pablo, Laguna, best known for his graphic novels \"Wasted\" and \"Elmer\".\n\nGerry Alanguilan was born in the city of San Pablo, Laguna in the Philippines. Filipino legend states that Alanguilan's family was originally named San Gabriel, but the name changed when a witch placed a curse on the family that would make them destitute for seven generations. Alanguilan would later use this legend as the basis for his story \"San Dig 1944\" in the \"Siglo: Freedom\" anthology. As a child, Alanguilan owned a chicken named Solano, who would later become the inspiration for Alanguilan's graphic novel Elmer.\n\nAs a young man, Alanguilan studied to become an architect, but decided to turn his hobby of comic book illustration into a career in order to be with his then-girlfriend. At first, much of Alanguilan's work in comic was on conventional American superhero titles. His first self-written comic was \"Wasted\". Alanguilan at first intended the comic to be for himself and his friends to read, and was embarrassed by the large amounts of violence and profanity in the title. Eventually Alanguilan allowed Wasted to be published in the Philippines, and from there its popularity spread to the United States and put Alanguilan on the independent comics map.\n\nAfter \"Wasted\", Alanguilan created several other titles which were published in several Filipino publications, such as \"Johnny Balbona\", \"Humanis Rex!\", \"ELMER\", \"Timawa\" and \"Where Bold Stars go to Die\". He also contributed to anthologies like \"Siglo: Freedom\", \"Siglo: Passion\" and \"Filipino Komiks\", all published in the Philippines. His self-created titles have also attracted a fanbase all over the world, including comic creators Neil Gaiman and Warren Ellis.\n\nIn the United States, he is known as an inker for such titles like \"Wetworks\", \"X-Men\", \"\", \"Wolverine\", \"High Roads\", \"Fantastic Four\", and \"Silent Dragon\". He has also worked alongside fellow Filipino comic book creators Leinil Francis Yu and Whilce Portacio.\n\nAlanguilan cites Barry Windsor-Smith, Alfredo Alcala, Frank Miller, Katsuhiro Otomo and Alan Moore as creative influences, in particular Moore's reinterpretation of Marvelman. Many of Alanguilan's titles take place in his native Philippines, or feature Filipino characters, such as \"Johnny Balbona\", \"Humanis Rex!\", and \"Timawa\". Many of Alanguilan's graphic novels incorporate elements of social commentary, especially \"Elmer\", which satirizes racism.\n\nIn 2007, Alanguilan created an autobiographical slice-of-life webcomic called \"Crest Hut Butt Shop\", based on an earlier minicomic of the same name. However, the webcomic has not been updated since September 12, 2007. Alanguilan played the antagonist, a human trafficker, in \"Tin-Tin 15\", a short film created to increase awareness of child trafficking in the Philippines. The protagonist of Whilce Portacio and Brian Haberlin's comic series \"Stone\", Gerry Alan, is named for Alanguilan.\n\nAfter a long sabbatical from mainstream comics, Alanguilan, partnered again with Leinil Yu in 2012 to help Mark Millar bring \"Supercrooks\" to success.\n\nHis comedic short film \"Hey Baby\", which consists mainly of him making lecherous facial expressions at his webcam, has given him a sizable following on YouTube, and was featured on the January 25th, 2011 episode of American television show Tosh.0. In October 2010, Gerry was voted \"The Greatest Man On The Internet\" by Ray William Johnson. Gerry's creepy smiling face was also a popular meme in Indonesia, known as \"Ayo sini sama om\" (literally means \"come here to uncle\"), and is usually used for comedic effect combined with other memes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3318677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3318677", "title": "Groma language", "text": "Groma language\n\nChomo (ZYPY), also Chumbi or D˚romo (Roman Dzongkha), is a language spoken in Chomo (Yadong) County, Tibet, China. It is also spoken in Sikkim, India. It belongs to the southern group of Tibetan languages. Its speakers identify as Tibetans.\n"}
{"id": "4671443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4671443", "title": "Gysbert Japiks", "text": "Gysbert Japiks\n\nGysbert Japiks or Japicx or Japix (1603–1666) was a West Frisian writer, poet, schoolmaster, and cantor.\n\nJapiks was born in Bolsward, Friesland. He admired the Latin poets Horace and Ovid, but was also an enthusiast for his own West Frisian \"memmetaal\", or mother tongue. His work was the most notable in that language of his day and had the effect of elevating Frisian to literary status. The poems of Japiks were published in \"Friessche Tjerne\" (1640) and also posthumously in \"Fryske Rijmlerye\" (1668).\n\nJapiks's Frisian songs were contrafacta to well-known tunes by composers such as Goudimel, Bourgeois, and Pierre Guédron. A selection from them was recorded by Frisian singers and Camerata Trajectina in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "18650055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18650055", "title": "History of Polish orthography", "text": "History of Polish orthography\n\nPoles adopted the Latin alphabet in the 12th century. This alphabet, however, was ill-equipped to deal with Polish phonology, particularly the palatal consonants (now written as ś, ź, ć, dź), the retroflex group (now sz, ż, and cz) as well as the nasal vowels (now written as ą, ę). Consequently, Polish spelling in the Middle Ages was highly inconsistent as writers struggled to adapt the Latin alphabet to the needs of the Polish language. There was no unified system; different writers came up with different systems before the modern Polish orthography was firmly established. \n\nIn the earliest documents the letter c could signify c, cz, or k while the letter z was used for ś, z, ź, and ż. Writers soon began to experiment with digraphs (combinations of letters), new letters (φ and ſ), and eventually diacritics. \n\nSome examples from the Bull of Gniezno (1136) and the Holy Cross Sermons (13th-14th centuries):\n\nMany orthography reforms happened in the end of the 18th century (under the auspices of Komisja Edukacji Narodowej (Onufry Kopczyński) and during the course of the 19th century, when the modern Polish language developed differently in the three parts created after the Partition of Poland.\n\nA major reform of Polish orthography happened in 1936, as decided by Polska Akademia Umiejętności. Lesser changes happened after 1956.\n\n\n [a scan]\n"}
{"id": "47252939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47252939", "title": "Immersia", "text": "Immersia\n\nImmersia is a privately held software development company co-founded by Guy Bar-ner, Karen Shlimovich and Paul Kuklis in 2013. Its headquarters are located in Tel Aviv, Israel. The company is known for their series of online language-learning adventure games and was listed in The Next Web as one of the \"7 startups to check out\" in November 2014.\n\nImmersia was co-founded in 2013 by entrepreneurs Guy Bar-ner, Karen Shlimovich and Paul Kuklis. Bar-ner and Shlimovich met at a French language course in a class which consisted of 30 students. After learning how to conjugate different verbs and after having to memorize table after table, for upcoming tests, the two became disillusioned with the fact that they still could not, in their words, \"order 'La Soupe' at the Brasserie\".\nThe team, which consisted of an SAT teacher, an English teacher and a linguist, came to the conclusion that they were tired of memorizing words. They wanted to engage in conversation and simulate real-life situations as though they were on a trip to Paris and as hard-core gamers their solution was simple. Within a few weeks they released their first French language-learning game and soon to follow were games for learning Spanish, German, Chinese and Japanese.\n\nImmersia's initial self-titled series of online language-learning games is set within the animated backdrop of a bar. Different types of characters occupy the bar among which are an elderly bartender, an attractive blue-eyed woman and a couple situated at one of the tables. The object of the game is to engage in conversation with the various characters either via the built-in speech recognition technology or by typing words using a keyboard and thus progress through the game by scoring points and ultimately improving language skills. This method of language learning is known as language immersion.\n\nAccording to Immersia's Linkedin page, their motto is: \"Studies show that classrooms aren't as fun as bars. Learn a language at a bar.\"\n\nIn June 2015, Immersia launched their first Android app entitled \"Spanish Injection\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28436016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28436016", "title": "International Committee on Computational Linguistics", "text": "International Committee on Computational Linguistics\n\nThe International Committee on Computational Linguistics (ICCL) was founded by Dr. David Hays of the RAND Corporation in 1965 to promote the biennial International Conference on Computational Linguistics, which since the third conference in Stockholm is known by the acronym COLING after the Swedish fictional character Kolingen by Albert Engström. The current President of ICCL is Professor Jun-Ichi Tsujii of the University of Tokyo and membership of the committee is permanent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44307157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44307157", "title": "KTAV Publishing House", "text": "KTAV Publishing House\n\nKTAV Publishing House is a publishing house located in Brooklyn, New York. Ktav means \"to write\" in Hebrew.\n\nFounded in 1924, it has been among the most notable publishers of Judaica and Jewish educational texts since the middle of the 20th century. In 2004, Ktav was designated a Parents' Choice Award-Winning company.\n\nKtav Publishing House was founded in 1924, and took on its name in the late 1920s when it began publishing notebooks. It has been among the most notable publishers of Judaica and Jewish educational texts since the middle of the 20th century. Sol and Bernie Scharfstein took over Ktav from their parents, becoming co-owners.\n\nKtav has over the years been located on Canal Street in Manhattan, in Hoboken, New Jersey, Jersey City, and is currently based in Brooklyn, New York. From 1984 when it moved from Manhattan, and as of 1992, the publishing house was located in Hoboken's industrial district, and was part of a $3-million-a-year publishing and novelty enterprise.\n\nKtav was as of 1992 run by Sol Scharfstein (who handled the textbook division) and his younger brother Bernie Scharfstein (who handled administrative matters, and oversaw scholarly and theological works).\n\nKtav in 1992 had a catalog of over 700 titles, and in 2008 its catalog included textbooks, siddurs (Jewish prayer books), scholarly works, and books on spirituality. It published approximately 25 new books every year in 1992, and 15 or 16 new books every year in 2008. Some of Ktav's books were anticipated to sell only a few hundred copies, while others were anticipated to sell in greater numbers.\n\nIn 2004, Ktav was designated a Parents' Choice Award-Winning company.\n\nAs of 2014, Moshe Heller is now the owner and CEO of Ktav.\n\n"}
{"id": "58686030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58686030", "title": "Kamini Gadhok", "text": "Kamini Gadhok\n\nKamini Gadhok is a speech and language therapist, specialising in bilingualism and, since 2000, has served as the CEO of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.\n\nGadhok worked as a speech and language therapist in Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust as a locailty manager and co-ordinator for the speech and language therapy services. She specialised in bilingulaism and led the development of services for people for whom English was an additional language. She established the Asian bilingual co-worker service, the first of its kind in the\ncountry. In 1997, Kamini became ethnic health projects coordinator for the NHS and was seconded to the Department of Health to set up the Race Equality Unit, where she was section head until 2000.\n\nGadhok was awarded an Order of the British Empire in the 2009 Birthday Honours for services to the Allied Health Professions. In the same year she was elected as a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.\n\nIn her role as the CEO for the RCSLT Gadhok had advocated the prioritisation of children’s language services by the UK government as a result of the findings of a 10-year impact assessment of the Bercow Report.\n"}
{"id": "55911108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55911108", "title": "Kamla Chaudhry", "text": "Kamla Chaudhry\n\nKamla Chaudhry (1908–????) was an Indian short story writer in Hindi language and a Member of Parliament from Hapur in the 3rd Lok Sabha.\n\nKamla Chaudhry was born on 22 February 1908 in Lucknow. Her father Rai Manmohan Dayal was a deputy collector.\n\nDuring the 1930 Civil disobedience movement, Chaudhry joined the Indian National Congress. Since then she was actively involved in the Indian Independence Movement and was imprisoned by the British authorities multiple times. She acted as the Senior Vice-chairperson during the 54th session of the All India Congress Committee. She was an elected member of the Constituent Assembly of India and after the constitution was adopted she served as a member of the Provincial Government of India till 1952. She was also a member of the Uttar Pradesh State Social Welfare Advisory Board.\n\nIn 1962, Chaudhry became a member of the 3rd Lok Sabha after winning the Indian general election, 1962 from Hapur as an official candidate of the INC. She defeated her nearest rival by a margin of 28,633 votes. Four collections of her stories; \"Unmaad\" (1934), \"Picnic\" (1936), \"Yatra\" (1947) and \"Bel Patra\" were published. Gender discrimination, exploitation of peasants and poor condition of widows were main themes in her works.\n\nShe married J.M. Chaudhry in February 1927.\n"}
{"id": "35191134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35191134", "title": "Kheza language", "text": "Kheza language\n\nKhezha Naga or Khuzha Naga, is another major language of Chakhesang community of Phek District in the eastern part of Nagaland, India. It is generally spoken by the Khezha people and is one of the three major languages of the Chakhesang Naga tribe. Khezha or Khuzhale is predominantly spoken in Pfutsero and Chizami region of Phek District. It is also spoken by few villages in the western part of Ukhrul District in Manipur State, India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "715483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715483", "title": "Khwe language", "text": "Khwe language\n\nKhwe (also rendered \"Kxoe, Khoe\"; or ) is a dialect continuum of the Khoe family of Namibia, Angola, Botswana, South Africa, and parts of Zambia, with some 8,000 speakers.\n\nKhwe is a member of the Khoe language family.\n\nThe 2000 meeting of the Working Group of Indigenous Minorities in South Africa (WIMSA) produced the Penduka Declaration on the Standardisation of Ju and Khoe Languages, which recommends Khwe be classified as part of the Central Khoe-San family, a cluster language comprising Khwe, ||Ani and Buga.\n\n\"Khwe\" is the preferred spelling as recommended by the Penduka Declaration, but the language is also referred to as \"Kxoe\", \"Khoe-dam\" and \"Khwedam\". \"Barakwena, Barakwengo\" and \"Mbarakwena\" refer to speakers of the language and are considered pejorative.\n\nOther names and spellings of ǁAni include \"ǀAnda, Gǀanda, Handá, Gani, Tanne,\" and \"Tsʼéxa\" with various combinations of \"-kwe/khwe/khoe\" and \"-dam.\"\n\nThe Khwe-speaking population has resided around the “bush” in areas of sub-Saharan Africa for several thousand years. Testimonies from living Khwe speakers note that their ancestors have come from the Tsodilo Hills, in the Okavango Delta, where they primarily used hunter-gatherer techniques for subsistence. These testimonies also indicate that living Khwe speakers feel as though they are land-less, and feel as though the governments of Botswana and Namibia have taken their land and rights to it.\n\nUntil the 1970s, the Khwe speaking population lived in areas that were inaccessible to most Westerners in remote parts of Namibia, Angola, Zambia, Botswana, and South Africa. Since then, livelihoods have shifted from primarily from hunter-gatherer to more Westernized practices. The first Bantu-speaking education that Khwe speakers received was in 1970 at a settlement in Mùtc’iku, a settlement proximate the Okavango River.\n\nSome argue that this put the language in a state of decline, as younger populations learned Bantu languages, such as Tswana. Khwe is learned locally as a second language in Namibia, but the language is being lost in Botswana as speakers shift to Tswana. It is also argued that this has led to a semantic broadening in meaning of words in the Khwe language. For example, “to write”, \"//gàràá\", was formerly used to describe an “activity the community members perform during healing ceremonies”. The semantic broadening of word meanings has also permeated other parts of Khwe-speaking culture, such as food, animals, and other forms of naming that some argue have introduced nonconformity. Noting this, the original meanings of these words is still understood and used during Khwe cultural practices.\n\nWhile Khwe-speakers were in minimal contact with the outsiders until 1970, there was limited interaction between the Khwe and missionaries in early and mid-twentieth centuries. The missionaries, for the most part, failed to convert the Khwe-speaking population. The introduction to missionaries, however, introduced Western culture and languages, in addition to Bantu languages.\n\nDespite the influence of Bantu languages in Khwe speakers education, historically, Khwe, and other Khoisan languages, have had linguistic influences on Bantu languages, historically. The Bantu language speakers of the Okavango and Zambezi regions migrated to the area during the Bantu Migration, and came in contact with the native Khoe speakers in the area. Through this initial contact, Bantu languages such as Xhosa and Zulu, amongst others, adapted the clicks of the Khoe languages and integrated them into their phonology, in a reduced manner through paralexification. Some scholars argue that the “contact-induced” changes in Bantu languages have contributed to language shift away from Khoe languages, such as Khwe, to Bantu languages because of the increased familiarity in phonology.\n\nThe Khoe mainly occupy the Okavango Delta of Botswana. Specifically, Khwe speakers primarily live in the western Caprivi area in Namibia, however, the entirety of the Khoe population occupies a much larger geography. Khwe speakers in the western Caprivi are somewhat distant, lexically, from other similar Khoe languages, such as Damara. According to a dialect survey conducted by the University of Namibia’s Department of African Languages, it was revealed that proto-Damara most likely migrated through the western Caprivi area before the Khwe settled the area, as there is little lexical overlap.\n\nThe Khwe speakers’ distribution in the greater Kavango-Zambezi region influenced clicks in Khoisan languages, some argue. The Khwe, and other Khoe language speaking peoples, resided in greater Southern Africa, prior to the great Bantu Migration, which occurred about 5,000 years ago. In this migration, the Bantu speaking population of West and Central Africa, around the Nigeria-Cameroon borderlands, migrated to Southern Africa, and in this process, encountered the native Khwe population. While the Khwe migrated into the Caprivi and greater Kavango-Zambezi region after the Damara, they were certainly there 5,000 years ago when Bantu speakers migrated to the area, and through their linguistic and cultural exchanges, both languages were fundamentally altered. The morphology, syntax, and phonology sections on this page further discuss the changes occurred, and how it has influenced contemporary Khwe.\n\nToday, there is an estimated 3700 Khwe speakers live in Namibia, with the vast majority residing in the western region of the Zambezi Region. The largest known Khwe settlements are Mutc'iku, located adjacent to the Okavango River, and Gudigoa in Botswana.\n\nNoting this, there have been major forced migrations from government pressures that have influenced the contemporary distribution of Khwe speakers. In 1990, 4000 Xhu and Khwe, including former members of the 31 Battalion (SWATF) who fought under the South African Defence Force in the Namibian War, were settled in a tent town in Schmidtsdrift, South Africa. In 2003, the majority of this community relocated to Platfontein, outside Kimberley, following the Schmidtsdrift Community Land Claim.\n\nKhwe has 70 phonemic consonants, including 35 clicks, as well as 25 vowel phonemes, including diphthongs and nasalised vowels. Khwe's tone system has been analysed as containing 9 syllabic tones (3 register and 6 contour), although more recent proposed analyses identify only 3 lexical tones, high, mid and low, with the mora as the basic unit of phonological structure. Tone sandhi processes are common in Khwe and related languages.\n\nKhoe click inventories generally combine four anterior constrictions types with nine to eleven anterior constrictions. The exact size of the click inventory in Khwe is unclear. Köhler established an inventory of 36 click phonemes, from combinations of four influxes and nine effluxes, as well as a borrowed voiced alveolar click, ⟨ǃ̬⟩. Kilian-Hatz identifies only 32 phonemic segments, due to gaps in the alveolar click type series, with Khwe being the only language to have a pre-nasalized voiced click.\n\nClicks occur exclusively in initial position on grammatical morphemes and lexical roots.\n\nKhwe is a suffixing language, and thus has a rich inventory of head-marking suffixes on nouns and verbs. Verbs take tense-aspect-mood suffixes (TAMs), marking for causative, applicative, comitative, locative, passive, reflexive and reciprocal. Nouns are marked with person-gender-number suffixes (PGNs). Gender division in Khwe is based on sex, and is expressed by PGNs, with gender being marked even in first-person dual and plural.\n\nNegation in Khwe is indicated with the clause-final negative particle \"vé,\" which can be used to indicate non-occurrence of an event, non-equation between entities, and the non-possession of an entity. The post-verbal particle \"tí\" can also be used, although its application is limited to prohibitive functions, such as negative imperatives and the negative hortative and jussive constructions, in which \"vé\" can also be used.\n\nGenerally, Khoisan languages have an SV constituent order. Central Khoisan languages have a dominant AOV constituent order, including Khwe, though AOV and OAV order is used more frequently in casual conversation and storytelling.\n\nKhwe lacks a separate class of adjectives. Pronouns, nouns and verbs, especially state verbs, can be used attributively. Khwe has a modifier-head order, in which manner adverbs precede the verb, and adjectives and possessors attributes precede the noun.\n\nIn Khwe, subjects of intransitive verbs, subjects and direct objects of transitive verbs, and one of the objects of ditransitive verbs are commonly omitted when the participants are known to the speakers through inner- or extra-linguistic context.\n\nKhwe has two multiverbal constructions that may denote a series of closely connected events: serial verb constructions (SVC) and converb constructions. An SVC expresses a complex event composed by two or more single events that happen at the same time, and a converb construction marks the immediate succession of two or more events.\n\nSVCs in Khwe consist of two or more verbs forming a single intonation unit, with only the last verb being marked for TAM. The preceding verbs obligatorily take the active voice suffix. Converb constructions may consist of two or more verbs, only one of which takes the TAM marking.\n\nIn opposition to the postulated linguistic universal regarding the primacy of the visual domain in the hierarchy of the verbs of perception, Khwe's most widely applied verb of perception is \"ǁám̀\", 'taste, smell, touch'. Khwe has three verbs of perception, the other two being \"mṹũ\" 'see', and \"kóḿ\" 'hear', but \"ǁám̀\", which is semantically rooted in oral perception, is used to convey holistic modes of sensory perception.\n\nThe Khwe term \"x|óa\" functions both as a verb 'to be little, few, some' and as an alternative way of expressing the quantity 'three'. This term is unique in its ambiguity among numeral terms used by African hunter-gatherer subsistence communities.\n\nKhwe has a large number of loan words from Afrikaans.\n\nIn 1957, Oswin Köhler, founder of the Institut für Afrikanistik at the University of Cologne, designed an orthography of Khwe in which he published three volumes of texts and grammatical sketches, based on observations of language and culture made over 30 years of visits to Namibia. As Köhler's orthography was designed for academic purposes, his volumes were published in German or French, and therefore inaccessible to the Khwe themselves. Köhler never made an attempt to teach literacy to members of the community.\n\nAttempts to teach the Khwe orthography to first language speakers were not made until 1996, bÿ scholars of the Institut who took up Köhler's work. At the request and with the consultation of the Khwe, the orthography was revised and simplified by Matthias Brenzinger and Mathias Schladt between 1996 and 1997.\n\nA collection of Khwe folktales was published in 1999 by Christa Kilian-Hatz and David Naude, using the revised orthography along with interlinear and free translations. Kilian-Hatz also published a dictionary of Khwe\",\" although this is written in the linguistic orthography which uses symbols from the International Phonetic Alphabet in place of the Latin script use for the applied orthography.\n\nThe revised orthography has not been granted official status in Namibia. The Khwe language is not taught as a subject or used as a language of instruction in formal education, and few literacy materials exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "25009790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009790", "title": "Komi Dje", "text": "Komi Dje\n\nKomi Dje (Ԃ ԃ; italics: \"Ԃ ԃ\") is a letter of the Molodtsov alphabet, a variant of Cyrillic. It was used only in the writing of the Komi language in the 1920s and in the Mordvin language.\n\nKomi Dje represents the voiced palatal stop .\n\n"}
{"id": "37716690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37716690", "title": "Krushna Chandra Kar", "text": "Krushna Chandra Kar\n\nKrushna Chandra Kar (1907–1995) was an Indian poet and literary critic who has written both in the Odia and English.\nHe has authored books on Odia literature and inspired other writers like Bidyut Prabha Devi and Chakhi Khuntia. He received a feliciation from the Odisha Sahitya Academy for his contribution to Odia literature in the year 1971 to 1972. He spent most of his life in Cuttack, Odisha.\n\nKrushna Chandra Kar wrote biographies, fictional works, and children's books both before and after Indian independence. He also authored an Odia to English dictionary called the \"Taruna Sabdakosh\" and an English to Odia dictionary called the \"New Method English Dictionary\", which has been in use at the Stanford University Libraries.\n\nHis better known Odia books include the \"Ramayana\" and \"Shakuntala\". He also authored collections of poetry, including \"Rutu Samhara\" and \"Hansa Dutam\".\n\nHe was arguably best known for children's literature and wrote \"Pari Raija\", \"Kuhuka Raija\", \"Panchatantra\", and \"Adi Jugara Galpa Mala\", among other works.\nHe wrote biographies of a number of historical personalities such as \"Kapila Deva\"\n\nOne of his famous English books was \"The Maharaja : As I Knew Him\".\n\nHe received the Odisha Sahitya Academy Feliciation, 1971-72\n\nKABYA\n\nGATHA\n\nKABITA (POETRY)\n\nNIBANDHA\n\nNATAKA AND LOKANATYA (DRAMA)\n\nUCHANGA SAHITYA\n\nKISHORA SAHITYA (ADULT’S LITERATURE)\n\nSISU SAHITYA (CHILDREN'S LITERATURE)\n\nAMAR CHARITA\n\nSISU UPANYASA (CHILDREN'S NOVEL)\nSERIES OF SUNARAIJA\n\nSERIES OF KUHUKA RAIJA\n\nSERIES OF PARIMAHALA\n\nSADHABA GHARA KATHA\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9591754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9591754", "title": "Kuwaiti Arabic", "text": "Kuwaiti Arabic\n\nKuwaiti (in Kuwaiti كويتي, //) is a Gulf Arabic dialect spoken in Kuwait. Kuwaiti Arabic shares many phonetic features unique to Gulf dialects. Due to Kuwait's soap opera industry, Kuwaiti Arabic spread throughout the Arabic-speaking world and became familiar even to people in countries such as Tunisia and Jordan.\n\nSince Kuwait was a nation of immigrants with no native population, Kuwait has a different sociolinguists structure. Three groups make up the Kuwaiti population: the first being the descendant of Arab tribes, while the second are people originally from Al-Hasa, Bahrain and Iraq, and the third are people originally from Persia (modern-day Iran), known in Kuwait by the name Ayam.\n\nKuwaiti Arabic is rapidly changing due to many factors.\n\n/b/, /f/, /l/, /m/, /n/ and /r/ become the emphatics ḅ, f, ḷ, ṃ, ṇ, and ṛ only when\nthey are in the contiguity of an emphatic, a back vowel, or if they precede /a:/.\n\nKuwaiti is divided into two varieties: Urban (Sedentary) and Nomadic or Bedouin. The first is believed to have developed due to exposure to the outside world, as well as Kuwait being a country of multi-regional immigrants during its infancy. The Urban dialect is seen as more prestigious than the Bedouin one.\n\nThe Urban dialect is divided into four sub-dialects, while the Bedouin is divided into two. The four sedent dialects are:\nWhile the two Bedouin varieties are:\n\nHistorians and researchers usually demonstrate differences between the dialects using the Kuwaiti word for Sugar, which has three different pronunciation. It is pronounced Shikar (/ʃɪkɐr/) in Sharg dialect, Shakar (/ʃɐkɐr/) in Fintaas dialect, and Shakir (/ʃɐkɪr/) in Jibla dialect.\n\nDashti identifies four varieties of Arabic in Kuwait. Classical Arabic (CA), the language of the Quran, the liturgical language of Islam, the religion of the vast majority of Kuwaitis, and old Arabic literature, Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), which is the medium of formal communication and school education. This variety is considered the second language of Kuwaitis as they are only introduced to when they start school. Kuwaiti Arabic (KA), the language of everyday's life and the symbol of the Kuwaiti identity. It is a symbol of prestige in the Kuwaiti society. The last variety is Educated Standard Arabic (ESA), in which the speaker mixes between MSA and KA. This language is used in Radio, TV, and academics' informal discussions. Kuwait is diglossic, like the rest of the Arab world, with the Arabic language being seen us the high variety, while Kuwaiti is seen more like a patois or a low-variety colloquial dialect of Arabic.\n\nKuwaiti is the \"normal\" way of speaking in everyday's life and is acquired naturally at home and not taught at schools (as it is considered a mere dialect of the Arabic language by the public).\n\nAfter conducting several interviews with speakers of Kuwaiti, Akbar states that for many, speaking Kuwaiti is the most important criterion of being considered Kuwaiti.\n\nKuwaiti Arabic is a variant of Gulf Arabic, sharing similarities with the dialects of neighboring coastal areas in Eastern Arabia. Due to immigration during its early history as well as trade, Kuwaiti was influenced by many languages such as Persian, English, Italian, Urdu, Turkish, and others.\n\nA characteristic in Kuwait is the use of words and phrases by women exclusively, for example \"يَا حَافِظ\", roughly translated to \"Oh Saver [God]\", is rarely or never used by men. It's also different than a lot of Arabic variants in the way that phonological assimilation occurs to a multitude of words, but not to all of them. The only case of full assimilation is /dˤ/ changing to /ðˤ/ in all words.\n\nStandard Arabic is a dead language; meaning it is not spoken natively by people anymore. Each variety of Arabic has evolved and developed over time. Some of the differences between the formal Arabic and Kuwaiti are:\n\"Note:\" Copulas are used before verbs only, not adjectives. For example: I am drinking, not I am drunk.\n\nThe past tenses are formed by adding كَانْ /kaan/ before each copula.\n\nKuwaiti borrowed a lot of words from different languages due to immigration and trade. Below are few examples with the corresponding Arabic words. As noticed, a lot of words come from Persian. This is due to the fact that the only original inhabitants of Kuwait were mixture of Arabs and Persians.\n\n\"Note:\" A green box indicates that the MSA word is used in Kuwaiti (most of the times interchangeably), while a red box means it's not.\nsome words were replaced by native Arabic words over time. A few examples of such words include:\nDr. Ya'goob al-Ghaneem points at the increasing numbers of Arab expatriate and exposure to media in different Arabics as the reasons behind this change. Fatima Mahasin hypothesises that the words being replaced are not of English, French or Italian origins, and tend originate from \"less-prestigious\" languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11371077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11371077", "title": "Leon Còrdas", "text": "Leon Còrdas\n\nLeon Còrdas (Siran 1913 - Montpellier 1987) was an acclaimed Occitan playwright who also wrote poems, novels and short-stories. Còrdas tried his hand at acting and directing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15625048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15625048", "title": "List of satanic ritual abuse allegations", "text": "List of satanic ritual abuse allegations\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s a moral panic about alleged Satanic ritual abuse (SRA) occurred, mainly in parts of the English-speaking world. This was propagated by certain psychotherapists, social workers, Christian fundamentalists and law enforcement officials. Some of the cases ended in prosecution and imprisonment. Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States have had several incidents of alleged SRA which received national and international news coverage. Other countries have also had isolated events in which abuse or murder took place with Satanic ritual elements, including Argentina and Brazil.\n\nIn 1991, police in Perth linked Scott Gozenton, a self-professed Satanist, with organised child sexual abuse. His lawyer claimed 13 Satanic covens existed in the area, holding bizarre orgies involving children, and that Gozenton had been followed and threatened by \"coven\" members throughout the court proceedings.\n\nIn 2001, the Melbourne diocese of the Catholic Church acknowledged as \"substantially true\" allegations that a Melbourne priest took part in Satanic ritual abuse in which a number of deaths occurred in the 1960s, and paid compensation to a surviving victim.\n\nIn 1999, two journalists from the Sun-Herald claimed to have seen evidence of the ritual abuse of children. They interviewed six mothers whose children had disclosed experiences of SRA and organised abuse in New South Wales. The children's disclosures were corroborating, although they had never met one another, and they had been able to draw representations of \"Satanic\" ritual sites which were similar to ritual sites uncovered by police on the central coast of New South Wales. One mother stated that her sons remembered being drugged and hypnotised. \"He said they dressed in black robes and had eye and mouth pieces cut out,\" she said. \"I know they're dangerous people. I have had warnings outside the house telling me to stop investigations. We're fearful for our lives. The boys never want me out of their sight.\"\n\nDuring the investigation of the Belgian serial killer Marc Dutroux, a number of women approached police claiming to be adult survivors of a network of sexual offenders. One witness described satanic ceremonies with a goal of disorienting new victims, causing them to doubt the reality of their memories and prevent disclosure.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Superior Universal Alignment, an Argentinian-based international cult, was implicated in the ritualistic murders of several children. One of the leaders of the group, Osvaldo Marcineiro, confessed to murdering a number of young children in Satanic rituals in which the children were tortured and their body parts cannibalised. A number of prominent citizens were arrested in relation to the murders, and it later emerged that they had paid the cult to conduct the murderous ceremonies. A search of cult member's houses turned up cult registers, guns, hooded cloaks, 100 videotapes of cult ceremonies and satanist publications, including a 200-page book by cult leader Valentina de Andrade called \"God, the Great Farce\". Brazilian authorities suggested that the cult was connected to Satanic groups internationally.\n\nIn 2003, five members of the Superior Universal Alignment cult in the Amazonian town of Altamira were convicted for the ritualistic murders of three children and the castration of two others. The victims were aged between eight and thirteen years, and they were kidnapped, tortured or killed between 1989 and 1993. Their genitals were removed and used in Satanic rituals by 75-year old village clairvoyant, Valentina de Andrade, the leader of the Superior Universal Alignment cult. De Andrade had previously been sought by police in Argentina and Uruguay prior to her arrest in Brazil on suspicion of involvement in other satanic ritual killings.\n\nFollowing the castration of victims, two doctors involved in the sect removed the victim's other organs for sale on the international black market. Other people sentenced in relation to the murders included a former police officer, a businessman and the son of an influential landowner. The charges related to the murders of three young children and the attempted murder of another, however, victim's families say that there were at least nineteen other murdered children. The cult is based in Argentina and has branches in Holland.\n\nOne of the earliest claims of SRA was made in the book \"Michelle Remembers\" co-written by Canadian psychiatrist Lawrence Pazder and Michelle Smith, later Pazder's wife. The book detailed a Satanic cult that allegedly operated in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\nA protracted child custody case contested in family court in Hamilton, Ontario, from 1985-1987, centred on allegations of Satanic ritual abuse; it was later documented in a book written by a Globe and Mail reporter who was assigned to cover the case.\n\nThe Martensville Satanic sex scandal occurred in Martensville, Saskatchewan in 1992, where an allegation of day care sexual abuse hysteria escalated into claims of satanic ritual abuse.\n\nIn 2007, a jury at Dublin Country Coroner's court unanimously ruled that an infant found stabbed to death over three decades ago was the daughter of Cynthia Owen (then 'Sindy Murphy'). The infant was alleged to have been murdered by the infant's grandmother. The Minister of Justice had previously rejected a request by Cynthia Owen to have the body of the child exhumed, a decision Ms. Owen did not contest. The inquest was prohibited from assigning blame due to the Coroners Act of 1962 and therefore returned an open verdict. Also, the jury was instructed that the standard of proof was not the \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" benchmark of criminal trials, but rather the lesser standard of determining whether Owen's claims were true based \"on the balance of probabilities\". Ms. Owen made claims about a stillborn second child buried in the family garden, but police found no human remains after digging up the plot. Owen's parents, as well as her older siblings, denied her allegations of abuse.\n\nDuring the trial, Owen provided her account of incest, organised abuse, and satanic ritual abuse orchestrated by her parents involving at least nine other men and her account was supported by her psychologist. She claimed that her brother, Michael, and sister, Theresa, were also abused, a charge that was denied by her older brother and father. One of the alleged abusers is Cynthia Owen's older brother, Peter Murphy Junior, while the father, Peter Murphy Senior, is also an alleged abuser. One brother, Martin, committed suicide in 1995 after revealing he had been sodomised in his family home, while another brother, Michael, disappeared in 2002 and sister Theresa committed suicide shortly after the discovery of his body in 2005; Theresa's detailed 37-paged suicide note corroborated Cynthia's account. A friend of Theresa's testified at the trial, stating that Theresa had spoken to him at length about her sexual abuse in childhood. Theresa Murphy committed suicide on February 24, 2005 as a result of childhood sexual abuse, this finding was supported by police evidence. Theresa was the child of her older sister, Margaret Murphy.\n\nFollowing the findings of the Coroner's Court, Owen has raised questions regarding the disposal of her daughter's body and the failure of the police to investigate the murder. In particular, she has highlighted the fact that no blood or tissue samples were kept, that the bag and sanitary towels found alongside the murdered child have gone missing, that the records of the first inquest into the murder have gone missing, and that her daughter was buried in a mass grave alongside other infants. Owen claimed that the police knew about the murder and did nothing. She also stated that she felt robbed of justice by her mother's natural and peaceful death.\n\nOwen's father, Peter Murphy Senior, and three of her sisters won the right to appeal the findings of the inquest from the High Court. The family claimed that the coroner was biased toward Owen, shielded her when giving evidence and was selective in the evidence presented to the jury. The case of the murdered child was reported in 2008, and in 2013, to be the subject of an ongoing investigation by the Garda Síochána. \n\nPeter Murphy Senior has since died.\n\nIn 1998, six adults in Emilia-Romagna were arrested with allegations of prostituting their children and the production of child pornography. The children were also reported to be involved in Satanic rituals. In 2002, four people were arrested for \"Satanism and paedophilia\" in Pescara. Police believed that the group may have abused dozens of children in rituals involving bodies stolen from ceremonies. In April 2007, six people were arrested for sexually abusing fifteen children in Rignano Flaminio. The suspects were accused of filming the children engaged in sexual acts with 'Satanic' overtones.\n\nIn 1989 a group of parents published allegations in a conservative magazine that their children had witnessed SRA and had been ritually abused from May, 1987 until October 1988 in Oude Pekela, a city in the north-eastern province of Groningen, the Netherlands. During the initial investigation, only the non-ritual aspects were reported in the press and investigated by the authorities and the allegations were unconfirmed. In 1989 the conservative Christian news program \"Tijdsein\" reported allegations that included Satanic ritual abuse, to which there was no official response. After attending a conference in which the concept of satanic ritual abuse was discussed, Oude Pekela general practitioners Fred Jonker and Ietje Jonker-Bakker alleged that several children had been abused by unknown men in the context of Satanic rituals. This was first reported in a lecture at the Institute of Education of London University and later published in several academic journals in both English and Dutch, but their findings were heavily criticised by American and Dutch scholars. National authorities were informed in 1991 and 1992 of the allegations, though no action was taken until the press was informed. The State Secretary of Justice responded to the allegations by appointing the \"Werkgroep Ritueel Misbruik\" multidisciplinary workgroup to study SRA in the Netherlands, which produced a report in 1994. The report concluded that it was unlikely SRA had occurred or the allegations were factually true, suggested the allegations were a defence mechanism produced in part by suggestive questioning by 'believing' therapists, and that the stories were contemporary legends dispersed through a network of therapists and patients who were concerned with dissociative identity disorder.\n\nIn 1990, Gert van Rooyen and his accomplice were accused of murdering several young girls, ultimately committing suicide while running from the police. One of the accused's sons was later himself accused of murdering a Zimbabwean girl in 1991; the same son claimed his father's victims were involved in international child pornography rings, slavery and Satanism rituals, but no evidence of this was found. The case was so similar to crimes committed by Marc Dutroux that multiple agencies investigated a possible international smuggling ring in prostituted children and body parts.\n\nThere have been a number of cases in the United Kingdom in which SRA has been alleged. Some of these cases have garnered significant media attention, and they are listed below.\n\nThe National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children documented allegations of ritual abuse in 1990, with the publication of survey findings that, of 66 child protection teams in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, 14 teams had received reports of ritual abuse from children and seven of them were working directly with children who had been ritually abused, sometimes in groups of 20. An investigation into SRA allegations by the British government produced over two hundred reports, of which only three were substantiated and proved to be examples of pseudosatanic, in which sexual abuse was the actual motivation and the rituals were incidental.\n\nThe Cleveland child abuse scandal featured allegations of satanic ritual abuse.\n\nIn 1990 there was a case in Rochdale which around twenty children were removed from their homes by social services who alleged the existence of SRA after discovering 'Satanic indicators'. No evidence was found of Satanic apparatus, and charges were dismissed when a court ruled the allegations were untrue. The children who were removed from their homes sued the city council in 2006 for compensation and an apology.\n\nIn 1990-1991 nine children suspected of being sexually abused by their families and an alleged child abuse ring were removed by social services in Orkney. The abuse was also alleged to involve \"ritualistic elements\". The parents approached the media and made the case national and international news. In April 1991, a sheriff ruled that the evidence was seriously flawed and the children were returned home.\n\nIn June, social services appealed the sheriff's ruling but the appeal was overturned and an official inquiry was established in August 1991, which after 9 months' investigation at a cost of £6 million, published its report in October 1992. It described the dismissal of the first judgment as \"most unfortunate\" and criticized all those involved, including the social workers, the police, and the Orkney Islands Council. Social workers' training, methods, and judgment were given special condemnation, and the report stated that the concept of \"ritual abuse\" was \"not only unwarrantable at present but may affect the objectivity of practitioners and parents\". A 1994 government report based on three years of research found that there was no foundation to any of the Satanic abuse claims.\n\nIn October 1987 children were removed from their families in Nottingham, and in February 1989 a Broxtowe family was charged with multigenerational child sexual abuse and neglect. A 600-page report on the incident concluded that there was no evidence of the SRA claims made by children or corroborating adults. Though the children may have been 'sadistically terrorized', allegations of organized Satanic abuse were found to be baseless and the indicators used by the Social Services department were without validity.\n\nIn 2003 allegations by three children in Lewis, Scotland resulted in the arrest of eight people for sexual abuse occurring between 1990 and 2000. A 2005 investigation by the Social Work Inspection Agency found extensive evidence of sexual, physical and emotional abuse and neglect. Police investigation resulted in allegations of an island-wide \"Satanic paedophile ring\", though charges were dropped nine months later following an inconclusive investigation.\n\nA key witness who had implicated her family in the abuse and whose evidence was \"vital\" to the case of satanic abuse recanted her testimony in 2006 and the media raised questions about the nature of the police interviewing techniques. with a police spokesperson replying that the witness was questioned appropriately and that allegations were made by numerous witnesses.\n\nIn March 2011, four adults who lived in a cul-de-sac in the Welsh town of Kidwelly were convicted of multiple sex offences against children and young adults. The group led by Colin Batley was described by the media as a \"Satanic sex cult\", a \"quasi-religious sex cult\" and a \"paedophile cult\" however the group members were not followers of Satanism. The prosecution said they practised \"free sex\" and were influenced by Aleister Crowley, a practitioner of ceremonial magic who founded the belief system of Thelema. They dressed in hoods and read from Crowley's \"The Book of the Law\", the central text of Thelema and some victims were made to wear inverted crosses. Members of the cult were initiated in a ceremony involving sex with an adult, and they were threatened with being killed if they did not take part in the ceremony. Some of the victims were forced into prostitution. The abuse also took place outside of a ritual context, such as Batley taking victims to a caravan to rape, in line with Jean La Fontaine's findings and her conclusion that sexual gratification, not religion, is the motive of abusers.\n\nIn the United States, major allegations of Satanic ritual abuse occurred in the Kern County child abuse cases, McMartin preschool trial and the West Memphis 3, which garnered world-wide media coverage. It was eventually determined that no satanic abuse ever took place in these cases due to false testimony and police misconduct. There have been countless, debunked allegations of SRA in the United States; of which the most recent allegation was Pizzagate; a speculated pedophile ring in the Washington D.C area at supposed ping pong themed restaurant, Comet Ping Pong. In the allegations, Hillary Clinton was an avid supporter and member in the pedophilia ring, with various sources of selected evidence pointing to her possible involvement and the possible involvement of Clinton's associations. \n\nThe first such case occurred in Jordan, Minnesota, in 1983, where several children made allegations against an unrelated man and their parents. The man confessed and then identified a number of the children’s parents as perpetrators. Ultimately twenty-four adults were charged with child abuse though only three went to trial with two acquittals and one conviction. Despite strong medical findings of sexual assault, all other charges were dropped after the young child witnesses decompensated under the duress of the criminal trial.\n\nDuring the investigation, the children made allegations regarding the manufacturing of child pornography, ritualistic animal sacrifice, coprophagia, urophagia and infanticide, at which point the Federal Bureau of Investigation was alerted. No criminal charges resulted from the FBI investigation, and in his review of the case, the Attorney General noted that the initial investigation by the local police and county attorney was so poor that it had destroyed the opportunity to fully investigate the children’s allegations.\n\nJudge Antonin Scalia referred to the Minnesota case in his summation on a later case, and stated, \"[t]here is no doubt that some sexual abuse took place in Jordan; but there is no reason to believe it was as widespread as charged,\" and cited the repeated, well-intentioned but coercive techniques used by the investigators as damaging to the investigation. The bizarre allegations of the children, the ambiguities of the investigation and the unsuccessful prosecutions were widely covered by the media. A number of accused parents confessed to sexually abusing their children, received immunity, and underwent treatment for sexual abuse, while parental rights for six other children in the case were terminated.\n\nIn December 2007, Austin Trey Bernard was found guilty of raping his son and daughter, convicted on the basis of three previous confessions and a detailed diary of his actions although he pleaded not guilty. The allegations came to light upon the confession of one of the defendants. Bernard confessed the sexual abuse of his children as well as claiming to have participated in satanically-themed ritualistic abuse including the use of animal parts and blood.\n\n"}
{"id": "33550929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33550929", "title": "Mbunda language", "text": "Mbunda language\n\nMbunda is a Bantu language of Angola and Zambia. There are several dialects: Katavola, Yauma, Nkangala, Mbalango, Sango, Ciyengele (\"Shamuka\"), and Ndundu, all of which are closely related. Mbunda was one of six languages selected by the \"Instituto de Línguas Nacionais\" (National Languages Institute) for an initial phase to establish spelling rules in 1980 to facilitate teaching in schools and promoting its use.\nMbunda is similar to Luchazi, but has some differences in the consonants. Among other differences, where Luchazi has , Mbunda has . Where Luchazi has , Mbunda has dental .\n\nLike other languages in eastern Angola and Zambia, Mbunda language has five contrastive vowels:\n\nVoiced plosives only occur as prenasalized stops, where they contrast with aspirated plosives. Otherwise only tenuis plosives are found in Mbunda.\n\nMbunda is spoken by the Mbunda people of the Moxico Province and Cuando Cubango Province of Angola and western Zambia. upon the migration of among others, the Ciyengele,\n\nThe Mbunda language in Zambia Angola is not spoken exactly the same way. In Zambia it has a strong upper teeth contact with the tongue, to pronounce words like: \"Mundthzindthzime\" (shadow), \"chithzalo\" (dress), \"Kuthsa\" (death) and many more. The difficult sounds represented by \"TH\". Mbunda language in Angola and Namibia is spoken without the \"TH\" sounds, like in the Luchazi language; the words above are pronounced as \"Mutzitzime\" (shadow), \"chizalo\" (cloth), \"Kutsa\" (death). Even within Zambia, the Mbunda language spoken by the Chiyengele group that migrated earlier is different from that spoken by the Mbunda group that fled into Zambia as a consequence of the Mbunda-Portuguese war of 1914. That is why the Mbunda language of the Chiyengele group, mainly found in Mongu, is nicknamed \"Shamuka\", heavily influenced by Lozi language. The same term can be attributed to the Mbunda language in Namibia, which is heavily influenced by the Nyemba and Luchazi languages.\n\nNumerical counting in Mbunda follows the usual numerals but in Mbunda words. Fill ups are easily made using small numerals.\n\n1 - Chimo.\n\n2 - Vivali.\n\n3 - Vitatu.\n\n4 - Viwana.\n\n5 - Vitanu.\n\n6 - Vitanu na chimo.\n\n7 - Vitanu na vivali.\n\n8 - Vitanu na vitatu.\n\n9 - Vitanu na viwana.\n\n10 - Likumi.\n\n11 - Likumi na chimo.\n\n20 - Makumi avali.\n\n22 - Makumi avali na vivali.\n\n30 - Makumi atatu.\n\n33 - Makumi atatu na vitatu.\n\n40 - Makumi awana.\n\n44 - Makumi awana na viwana.\n\n50 - Makumi atanu.\n\n55 - Makumi atatu na vitanu.\n\n60 - Makumi atanu na limo.\n\n66 - Makumi atanu na limo na vitanu na chimo.\n\n70 - Makumi atanu na avali.\n\n77 - Makumi atanu na avali na vitanu na vivali.\n\n80 - Makumi atanu na atatu.\n\n88 - Makumi atanu na atatu na vitanu na vitatu.\n\n90 - Makumi atanu na awana.\n\n99 - Makumi atanu na awana na vitanu na viwana.\n\n100 - Chiita.\n\n101 - Chiita na kamo.\n\n110 - Chiita na likumi.\n\n111 - Chiita na likumi na kamo.\n\n152 - Chiita na makumi atanu na tuvali.\n\n163 - Chiita na makumi atanu na limo na tutanu.\n\n174 - Chiita na makumi atanu na availi na tuwana.\n\n185 - Chiita na makumi atanu na atatu na tutanu.\n\n186 - Chiita na makumi atanu na atatu na tutanu na kamo.\n\n197 - Chiita na makumi atanu na awana na tutanu na tuvali.\n\n200 - Viita vivali.\n201 - Viita vivali na kamo.\n\n300 - Viita vitatu.\n\n400 - Viita viwana.\n\n500 - Viita vitanu.\n\n600 - Viita vitanu na chimo.\n\n700 - Viita vitanu na vivali.\n\n800 - Viita vitanu na vitatu.\n\n900 - Viita vitanu na viwana.\n\n1,000 - Likulukathzi.\n\n1,111 - Likulukathzi na chiita na likumi na kamo.\n\n2,000 - Makulukathzi avali.\n\n3,000 - Makulukathzi atatu.\n\n4,000 - Makulukathzi awana.\n\n5,000 - Makulukathzi atanu.\n\n6,000 - Makulukathzi atanu na limo.\n\n7,000 - Makulukathzi atanu na avali.\n\n8,000 - Makulukathzi atanu na atatu.\n\n9,000 - Makulukathzi atanu na awana.\n\n10,000 - Likumi lya makulukathzi.\n\n11,111 - likumi lya makulukathzi na likulukathzi na chiita na likumi na kamo.\n\n20,000 - Makumi avali amakulukathzi.\n\n30,000 - Makumi atatu amakulukathzi.\n\n40,000 - Makumi awana amakulukathzi.\n\n50,000 - Makumi atanu amakulukathzi.\n\n60,000 - Makumi atanu na limo amakulukathzi.\n\n70,000 - Makumi atanu na avali amakulukathzi.\n\n80,000 - makumi atanu na atatu amakulukathzi.\n\n90,000 - makumi atanu na awana amakulukathzi.\n\n100,000 - chiita cha makulukathzi.\n\n200,000 - viita vivali vya makulukathzi.\n\n300,000 - viita vitatu vya makulukathzi.\n\n400,000 - viita viwana vya makulukathzi.\n\n500,000 - viita vitanu vya makulukathzi.\n\n600,000 - viita vitanu na chimo vya makulikathzi.\n\n700,000 - viita vitanu na vivali vya makulukathzi.\n\n800,000 - viita vitanu na vitatu vya makulukathzi.\n\n900,000 - viita vitanu na viwana vya makulukathzi.\n\n1,000,000 - likulukathzi lya makulukathzi.\n\nMbunda names are many; listed are the ones commonly used. They can be given either to a male or female, except a very few that are for females only and have been indicated here by (f). Some Mbunda names are similar to those of other nationalities which also have their roots in the Luba Kingdom, such as Kaunda, Katongo, Kavanda, Mulenga, Muvanga, Mwila, Kavunda, Kalunga, Muti, Chiinga, Kavalata, Chiti, Nkonde and others. Also similar to Mbunda names are Chipoya, Chipango, Musole, Kayata, Ngambo, Kawengo, Kapisa and Musumali, found in other ethnic groups which trace their origins to Mwantiyavwa the king of the Ruund. These similarities give further evidence that Mbunda people interacted with the Kingdom of Lunda and Kingdom of Luba, in the 15th century. The commonly used Mbunda names are as follows:\n\n1. Viemba (Vyemba) meaning medicines.\n\n2. Vulungi meaning trekking to new settlement\n\n3. Chendamundali meaning tourist, (vacendamundali-plural).\n\n4. Chalula meaning someone who found (picked) a lost thing.\n\n5. Chambato meaning a bridegroom.\n\n6. Changoco meaning a useless person.\n\n7. Changano meaning an \"I don't care\" person.\n\n8. Chavaya meaning a destitute person.\n\n9. Chikatu meaning source.\n\n10. Chilala meaning cruelty.\n\n11. Chiinga meaning substitute or substitution.\n\n12. Chiingi meaning the substitute wife from same family as first wife.\n\n13. Chilindo meaning the float of fish net.\n\n14. Chilombo meaning a place where things are put to soak or dye.\n\n15. Chilunda meaning the second born.\n\n16. Chimbali meaning the slave of a white person.\n\n17. Chimbinde meaning a cantankerous person, cruel.\n\n18. Chindele meaning a white person.\n\n19. Chindumba meaning a kind of hair plait.\n\n20. Chingumbe meaning a strong and healthy man. Name of the 14th Mbunda King\nwho ruled Mbundaland in the 17th century in what is now Angola.\n\n21. Chingunde meaning moroseness, sullenness.\n\n22. Chingwali meaning a shackle for the head, a fetter.\n\n23. Chinjenge meaning to be left in hardship.\n\n24. Chinunga meaning an articulated joint.\n\n25. Chinyundu meaning a beehive smoker (to rid the hive of bees).\n\n26. Chioola meaning a quiet person; sober.\n\n27. Chipango meaning the fence built for a woman giving birth.\n\n28. Chipipa meaning to swish or whip through the air.\n\n29. Chipoya meaning a machile or hammock.\n\n30. Chiputa meaning a type of shrub; bush.\n\n31. Chixwaxwa (Chishwashwa) meaning an empty light shell.\n\n32. Chiti meaning wood or tree.\n\n33. Chitumbo meaning a big heap of soil.\n\n34. Chitundu meaning a type of plant with an edible tuber.\n\n35. Chiyengele meaning a red cloth belt. Name of the Senior Mbunda Chief in Bulozi,\ndeclared by King Mulena Mulambwa of the Aluyi people.\n\n36. Chiyengo meaning big barrel.\n\n37. Chuma meaning thing.\n\n38. Kaalu meaning a surviving twin.\n\n39. Kavavu meaning June.\n\n40. Kafunya meaning a presumptuous person.\n\n41. Kafuti meaning the child born after twins.\n\n42. Kailu meaning the child born after five children's death, regarded as a \"returned\" person.\n\n43. Kaliki meaning the chief's storehouse.\n\n44. Kaliye meaning being lonely.\n\n45. Kalimbwe (vulimbwe) meaning a person using birdlime to catch birds.\n\n46. Kalumbu, for females, meaning a stray person who has lost her good character.\n\n47. Kaliata (Kalyata) meaning a person who oppresses others.\n\n48. Kaliangu (Kalyangu) meaning a kind of jester or masked dancer.\n\n49. Kamana meaning a wise person.\n\n50. Kanjengo meaning white cloth.\n\n51. Kankondo meaning a kind of weasel that eats fowls.\n\n52. Kanjonja meaning a type of gun; flintlock.\n\n53. Kanunga meaning a small joint.\n\n54. Kapatitho (Kapatiso) meaning bolt fastener.\n\n55. Kapitha (Kapisa) meaning a person who refuses to help because he is miserly and stingy or who burns something.\n\n56. Kaxweka (Kashweka) meaning a hidden thing.\n\n57. Kaxukwe (Kashukwe) meaning August.\n\n58. Kathoka (Kasoka) meaning a person who loads the gun; rams the charge into the gun.\n\n59. Kathonda (Kasonda) (vuthampu - vusampu) meaning a kind of coiffure.\n\n60. Katavola meaning a person who tears something apart. Name of the famous 20th Mbunda King who fought and defeated the Chokwe people in what is now Angola.\n\n61. Katota meaning a person who knocks or hammers on something.\n\n62. Katongo meaning a wanderer.\n\n63. Kaulembi (kulamba) meaning a person who goes to appeal for help.\n\n64. Kavindama meaning an unfortunate person.\n\n65. Kavunda meaning a person who smears the concrete floor.\n\n66. Kawengo meaning the spirit of a deceased woman.\n\n67. Kayando meaning a sufferer, trouble.\n\n68. Kayawe meaning a cunning person.\n\n69. Kayongo meaning the spirit of a deceased man.\n\n70. Kathzungo (Kazungo) meaning noise or racket. Name of the 22nd Mbunda King who was installed by the Portuguese colonialists, after abducting King Mwene Mbandu I Lyondthzi Kapova, the 21st Monarch of Mbundaland in what is now Angola.\n\n71. Kufuna meaning to and fro. (Not Mbunda by origin but used today).\n\n72. Kalunga meaning God.\n\n73. Kuunga meaning to gather.\n\n74. Kuvangu, see Kawengo.\n\n75. Lifuti meaning country. Name of the 23rd Mbunda King and the first to be installed by the Mbunda people after the restoration of the Mbunda monarchy in what is now Angola, since the abduction of the 21st Mbunda King who resisted the Portuguese occupation of Mbundaland in 1914.\n\n76. Likonge meaning a kind of water grass.\n\n77. Liongo meaning a river reed.\n\n78. Livindamo meaning an unlucky village or place.\n\n79. Luvinda meaning hard luck or misfortune.\n\n80. Liwoyo meaning racket, noise.\n\n81. Lumbala is the name of a river in eastern Angola.\n\n82. Liato (Lyato) meaning a big canoe.\n\n83. Liunda (Lyunda) meaning grove.\n\n84. Maamba meaning evil spirits possessing people.\n\n85. Makayi meaning bracelets.\n\n86. Makalu meaning a brave person.\n\n87. Makuwa from (kulikuwa) meaning someone who shouts when rejoicing.\n\n88. Maliti meaning a type of rifle, a single loader.\n\n89. Manjolo meaning tubular anklets.\n\n90. Manyenga meaning a worried person, also means to render fat.\n\n91. Mathambo (Masambo) meaning small wires.\n\n92. Matheka (Maseka), see Makayi.\n\n93. Mathumba (Masumba) meaning crescent shaped medallions.\n\n94. Mbaita (f) meaning please pass, to allow to pass.\n\n95. Mbalili (f) meaning keg, barrel.\n\n96. Mbambale meaning the spinning device used by Mbunda.\n\n97. Mbandu meaning sore. Name of the 21st Mbunda King who resisted the Portuguese occupation of Mbundaland in 1914 in what is now Angola.\n\n98. Mbundi (f) meaning a fetish stick.\n\n99. Mukovoto meaning a talkative person.\n\n100. Mukuve meaning a kind of tree for bark rope.\n\n101. Mukwita meaning a passer-by; to pass by.\n\n102. Mulenga meaning a piece of wood split off a tree struck by thunder and lightning.\n\n103. Mulemba meaning a kind of tree that produces rubber.\n\n104. Mulikita meaning great big-game hunter, also boxer.\n\n105. Muliata (Mulyata), see Kaliata (Kalyata).\n\n106. Mundanya, see Mathumba (Masumba).\n\n107. Mundu (kaundu) meaning medicine rubbed on the body to make it impervious to bullets. Name of the first Mbunda Chief who migrated to Bulozi in the 16th century.\n\n108. Mundthzimba meaning an ignorant person.\n\n109. Mununga meaning a person who joins things together.\n\n110. Muthando (Musando) meaning millet.\n\n111. Muthangu (Musangu) meaning a resurrected person.\n\n112. Muxova (Mushova) (f) meaning mixed things.\n\n113. Muxuwa (Mushuwa) (f) meaning a tree with little leaves, see mulemba.\n\n114. Muthompa (Musompa) meaning a judge.\n\n115. Muti (chiti) meaning tree.\n\n116. Muvanga meaning a kind of shrub; also means firstborn.\n\n117. Muwae (f) meaning beauty.\n\n118. Muyeva, see Katongo.\n\n119. Muyenga meaning to render fat or beeswax.\n\n120. Muyombo (muxaa - mushaa) meaning a type of fetish stick.\n\n121. Mwila meaning grass.\n\n122. Ndandula meaning he must follow.\n\n123. Ndombelo meaning a young girl who pounds white maize into theke (seke) which is used in ritual offerings (nombelo) to ancestral spirits.\n\n124. Ndumba meaning lion.\n\n125. Ngeve meaning female twins.\n\n126. Ngongola, see Katota.\n\n127. Nguvu meaning male twins; also hippopotamus.\n\n128. Njamba, meaning elder of the twins; also elephant.\n\n129. Nkumbwa meaning ostrich.\n\n130. Nyumbu meaning a type of swamp reed.\n\n131. Nyundu meaning otter.\n\n132. Thakulo (Sakulo) meaning a kind of grass used for thatching.\n\n133. Theke (Seke) meaning white maize meal used for offerings to ancestral spirits.\n\n134. Xanda (Shanda), meaning battle, honey badger. Name of the 22nd Mbunda King who was installed by the Portuguese colonialists, after abducting King Mwene Mbandu I Lyondthzi Kapova, the 21st Monarch of Mbundaland in what is now Angola.\n\n135. Wacama, the abbreviation of (waca manene) meaning you like something very much.\n\n136. Wampata meaning an argumentative or stubborn person.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6789850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6789850", "title": "Metro (novel)", "text": "Metro (novel)\n\nMetropoliteno (trans. Subway, Underground, Metro) is a partly autobiographical novel written in Esperanto by Vladimir Varankin about suppression by the state in Germany and the Soviet Union. It was published in Amsterdam in 1933 (200 pages), again in Denmark in 1977, and a third edition in Russia in 1992. There also exist translations in Russian and in English. It is listed in William Auld's .\n\n\"The theme is a soviet engineer, who travels to Berlin to study construction methods for subways (underground electrical railways) ... Modern life in the Soviet Union is mirrored beside that of pre-Hitlerite Germany.\" (F. E. W., \"The British Esperantist,\" November 1934.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4563165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4563165", "title": "Money note", "text": "Money note\n\nA money note is a music industry slang term which refers to a part of a live or recorded singing performance which is subjectively judged to be very dramatic or emotionally stirring. Created from a confluence of composition or improvisational and performance quality, this is usually at a climactic point of a song or aria, in which the singer's melody makes a large interval jump to the song's highest note (especially for female soprano singers or male tenor or countertenor singers) or falls to its lowest note (especially for male bass or baritone singers). In some cases, a section or phrase of a vocal melody may captivate the listener's interest because of the tone quality of the singing-either because of the strident emotionalism, or due to the quiet sensitivity of the voice. As well, a \"money note\" might be an impressive vocal display or a note which is held for a long time with clear pitch and expressive vibrato. \n\nIn classical music, the term is associated with opera. In opera, the star singers often have a much higher billing than any of the other participants in the performance, including the conductor of the orchestra. Some opera roles have high notes, such as high \"C\" notes for sopranos, that are hard to hit in a live performance. As such, the audience enjoys going to see the performance and find out if their favorite performer will be able to sing these high notes with accurate pitch, strong projection, and a clear tone. In this sense, the high notes sung by the opera singer are the \"money notes\" that the audience is paying to see, and for which the opera singer commands their high salary. \n\nWhile \"money notes\" are often high notes, in some cases, the hard-to-hit notes are low notes sung by a mezzo-soprano or alto female singer, or low notes sung by a bass-baritone singer. Many of the well-known \"money notes\" written for the tenor voice are from the \"bel canto\" era, such as Donizetti's sequence of 9 \"C\"s above middle C during \"La fille du régiment\". With Wagner came an emphasis on using the tenor for vocal heft for in protagonist roles, with this vocal category described as \"Heldentenor\", a heroic-sounding, bold male voice that listeners find to be very dramatic. \n\nAchieving \"money notes\" poses a particular obstacle for classical musicians, as compared to pop musicians, because opera singers do not usually sing with a microphone. While both pop and classical musicians aim at producing well-sung notes with a good tone (with the respective stylistic norms appropriate to each idiom), the pop musician does not have to sing loudly at high sound-pressure levels to be heard, because the amplification of the PA system speakers does this for them. In an opera hall, though, a classical singer has to project their voice over the accompaniment of a symphony orchestra without a microphone or PA system. In trying to project the voice with at such high volumes, a classical singer may find it harder to maintain an attractive tone quality and correct intonation than a mic-wielding pop singer. To ease the pressure on classical vocalists' voices, major opera halls of the 2000s are increasingly using electronic acoustic enhancement, a subtle type of sound reinforcement system.\n\nAs with pop singing styles, the attractiveness or exciting qualities of a live opera vocal performance or recording are subjective and vary between listeners, cultures, and time periods. A soprano singing in the 1930s would elicit praise and applause for hitting a high note in a way that would be deemed unacceptable in the 2000s, because of the use of performance practices such as doing a long, drawn-out glissando up to reach the high note and then using a wide vibrato, wavering on the pitch so much that it is hard to discern which note they are singing.\n\nIn pop music, the term is used because \"money notes\" on a CD help to 'sell' a song for a listener, and also because singers capable of performing these emotionally stirring passages are able to make income from the performance. \n\nOne of the most well-known examples of money note can be found in Whitney Houston's version of the Dolly Parton song \"I Will Always Love You\", at the beginning of the third rendition of the chorus, there is a pause, a drum beat, a key change, and then Houston belts out the emphatic line \" And I will always love you.\" The Céline Dion song from \"Titanic\" \"My Heart Will Go On\": the key change that begins the third verse — \"You're here / There's nothing I fear.\" In the realm of musicals, money notes can be common elements in songs, often becoming as well known as the song themselves. \n\nThe attractiveness or exciting qualities of a singer or recording are subjective and vary between listeners, cultures, and time periods. Different vocal styles are considered to be desirable in different cultures. In Southeast Asia, for example, female pop singers sing with a very high-pitched, nasal tone; while this singing style would be unlikely to create positive responses for most Western listeners, for Asian audiences, the sound of the most popular singers hitting high notes creates a physiological response of emotional excitement. Even within a single culture, the singing styles vary widely from one style to another. Within the death metal fan subculture, the low, guttural sound of a well-performed \"death grunt\" is widely admired; for a typical Western pop or rock listener, though, this type of singing would elicit only puzzlement, not excitement.\n\nIn film production, the slang term \"money shot\" is used to refer to the most expensive scene of a film, such as a special effects sequence, especially in films from before the era of pre-Computer Generated Imagery, when special effects were done with explosives and stuntpeople rather than computer software. In a 1950s action-adventure film about Pearl Harbor, for example, a costly sequence which depicts the bombing and sinking of US destroyers by exploding and sinking actual, decommissioned vessels would be called the \"money shot\" of the film. The audiences would expect to see this sequence, given the title of the film, and the financial outcome of the movie would depend on whether the sequence was well done.\n\nIn 2008 the French singer Camille released the song \"Money Note,\" which references Dolly Parton, Whitney Houston, Celine Dion, and Mariah Carey. In the chorus Camille swears that \"I'll hit the money note,\" which she does at the end with a piercing, nearly inaudible shriek.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8657386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8657386", "title": "Negidal language", "text": "Negidal language\n\nNegidal (also spelled Neghidal) is a language of the Tungusic family spoken in the Russian Far East, mostly in Khabarovskij Kraj, along the lower reaches of the Amur River. Negidal belongs to the Northern branch of Tungusic, together with Evenki and Even. It is particularly close to Evenki, to the extent that it is occasionally referred to as a dialect of Evenki.\n\nAccording to the Russian Census of 2002, there were 567 Negidals, 147 of which still spoke the language. The Russian Census of 2010 reported lower speaker numbers, with only 19 of 513 ethnic Negidals reported to still speak the language.\n\nHowever, recent reports from the field reveal that the linguistic situation of Negidal is much worse than the census reports. According to Kalinina (2008), whose data stem from the fieldwork conducted in 2005-2007, there are only three full speakers left, and a handful of semi-speakers. Pakendorf & Aralova (2018) report from fieldwork conducted in 2017 that there remain only six active speakers of Upper Negidal and there are no speakers of Lower Negidal. The language is thus classified as severely endangered and is predicted to become dormant within the next decade.\n\nThere were formerly two dialects: the Upper Negidal dialect (\"Verkhovskoj\" in Russian) along the Amgun River (village of Vladimirovka), still residually spoken, and the now extinct Lower dialect (\"Nizovskoj\") in its lower reaches (villages of Tyr and Beloglinka, the town of Nikolaevsk-on-Amur). The Lower dialect was especially close to Evenki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35924233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35924233", "title": "Olrat language", "text": "Olrat language\n\nOlrat is a moribund Oceanic language spoken on Gaua island in Vanuatu. \n\nThe three remaining speakers of Olrat live on the middle-west coast of Gaua. They merged into the larger village of Jōlap where Lakon is dominant, after they left their inland hamlet of Olrat in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nAlexandre François identifies Olrat as a distinct language from its immediate neighbor Lakon, on phonological, grammatical, and lexical grounds.\n\nOlrat has 14 phonemic vowels. These include 7 short /i ɪ ɛ a ɔ ʊ u/ and 7 long vowels /iː ɪː ɛː aː ɔː ʊː uː/. \n\nHistorically, the phonologization of vowel length originates in the compensatory lengthening of short vowels when the voiced velar fricative was lost syllable-finally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3672887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3672887", "title": "Pangender", "text": "Pangender\n\nPangender is a non-binary gender defined as being more than one gender. A pangender person may consider themselves a member of all genders. The prefix \"pan\" is Greek and means \"all\". Pangender is a kind of third gender, much like bigender, trigender, or genderqueer. Pangender individuals may identify with gender inclusive or gender neutral pronouns instead of gendered ones (such as she/he or her/him).\n\nA current issue for individuals of non-binary genders is which bathroom to use in public; either the one matching society’s expectations (appearing/dressing masculine must use the male restroom; appearing/dressing feminine must use the female restroom) or the one matching their internal feelings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84331", "title": "Paroxytone", "text": "Paroxytone\n\nParoxytone (, \"\") is a linguistic term for a word with stress on the penultimate syllable, that is, the second last syllable, such as the English word \"potato\". In Italian and Portuguese, most words are like that. In Polish, almost all words have paroxytonic stress, except for certain verb conjugations and a few words of foreign origin.\n\nIn medieval Latin lyric poetry, a \"paroxytonic\" line or half-line is one in which the penultimate syllable is stressed, as in the second half of the verse \"Estuans intrinsecus || ira vehementi.\"\n\nRelated terms are proparoxytone (stress on the third last syllable) and oxytone (accented on the last syllable).\n\n"}
{"id": "1518267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518267", "title": "Pen tilt", "text": "Pen tilt\n\nPen tilt refers to the angle of the writing instrument during the handwriting process, which can vary over time. In a coordinate system which is determined by the writing surface plane formula_1 and the vertical pen-tip movement along the formula_2 axis, all three two-dimensional planes can be discerned, and the angular signals can be delivered by a digitizer:\n\nThe rotation of a pen along its longitudinal axis is seldom taken into consideration, as some writers have a habit of continuously rotating the pen as they write. This phenomenon became apparent via electronic pens tethered to the digitizer, whose cords became immensely curled.\n\n"}
{"id": "15793811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15793811", "title": "Rafa Villar", "text": "Rafa Villar\n\nRafa Villar (Cee, Galicia, 1968 - ) is a Galician writer noted especially in the field of poetry. He has a degree in Galician-Portuguese Philology from the Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, and works in the linguistic normalization service of the Confederación Intersindical Galega. He was spokesman for the national operator of the Plataforma Nunca Máis and part of the directive of the Galician Writers Association. He is a member of the Batallón Literario da Costa da Morte and was also one of the founders and promoters of the publishing firm Letras de Cal.\n\nHe began to become known in the year 1991, when he won the Premio Fermín Bouza Brey for new authors with \"Liques da Memoria\".\n\nHe is interested in alternative publishing formats, and was one of the first Galician authors to digitize their works. He has his own personal website, Mares de Simbad, where he offers part of his body of poetry along with articles on the topic of creating and editing literature. He also participated in the creation of the digital publisher Retagarda Edicións, which offers books on disk. He won the Premio Cómaros Verdes, awarded by the city of Vilagarcía de Arousa, for his book \"Casa ou sombra\". As a narrator, he won the Premio Curuxa do Humor for short stories.\n\nHe is currently a Galician Nationalist Bloc town councillor in Santiago de Compostela and a prominent member of the Galician Movement for Socialism.\n\nAbout Rafa Villar\n"}
{"id": "445677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445677", "title": "Realignment (sports)", "text": "Realignment (sports)\n\nIn North American sports, realignment refers to a major change in the competitive structure of one or more existing leagues. The mechanics differ somewhat between amateur and professional sports.\n\nIn professional sports, this occurs when a league decides to change which teams are in which divisions, usually by creating new divisions. In all of the four major North American sports leagues, all of the teams are grouped into one of two conferences (or leagues in baseball) while each conference/league is further subdivided into divisions. Teams in the same division play each other more regularly than teams in the same conference, and much more often than teams in the other conference. Teams from the same division can form intense rivalries. The top team from a division is always guaranteed a playoff spot and guaranteed a higher seeding in the playoffs. Divisions are usually based on geography, both to minimise travel costs and to encourage regional rivalries.\n\nDivisions are not always static. Sometimes a team may relocate to a new city, and as a result the division may become geographically skewed. For instance, when the Atlanta Thrashers of the NHL became the Winnipeg Jets in 2011, they would have been a team from a northwestern city playing in the Southeast Division, but the NHL chose not to realign at this time, leading to lengthy road trips for the Jets and the other teams in their division.\n\nAlso, divisions need to be roughly equal in size to ensure that each team has an equal chance of becoming division champion. When a league introduces new teams in new markets, placing them in the division best suited to their geography may result in more teams in that division, so realignment is necessary. The 1969 baseball realignment coincided with the addition of four teams, whereas its 1994 realignment creating extra divisions in both the American League and the National League came a year after the league added the Colorado Rockies and Florida Marlins. The National Football League realigned to its current eight-division format after a series of team relocations had created geographically skewed divisions.\n\nSometimes a sport will favor old division rivalries over geographical consistency. The rivalries the Dallas Cowboys of the NFL maintain with the teams of the eastern seaboard, especially the Washington Redskins, meant they were kept in an eastern division after realignment, even though they are geographically dissimilar to their division rivals.\n\nIn college sports, the term \"realignment\" is used to refer to a situation in which large numbers of schools switch their conference affiliation in a short period of time. Especially in the top level of college sports, NCAA Division I, several schools change their affiliations in one or more sports every year. However, the term is usually reserved for situations which affect large numbers of conferences—most notably in 1996, 2005, and 2010–2014.\n\nEach of the above three realignment periods was driven mainly by one or a few conferences:\n"}
{"id": "4649631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649631", "title": "Reed pen", "text": "Reed pen\n\nA Reed pen ( '; singular ') is a writing implement made by cutting and shaping a single reed straw or length of bamboo. Reed pens with regular features such as a split nib have been found in Ancient Egyptian sites dating from the 4th century BC. Reed pens were used for writing on papyrus, and were the most common writing implement in antiquity. \n\nReed pens are stiffer than quill pens cut from feathers and do not retain a sharp point for as long. This led to them being replaced by quills. Nevertheless a reed pen can make bold strokes, and it remains an important tool in calligraphy.\n\nTo make a reed pen, scribes would take an undamaged piece of reed about 20 cm, and leave the end that would be cut into point in water for some time (so it would not splinter when it’s cut). They crafted a series of cuts that would cut the nib of the pen until it is flat enough and pointed. The pointed end is then cut off. It is not too far from the point so it can form a squared end suitable for writing. At the end they would start the split (which acts as a primitive ink barrel) from the tip of the nib and lengthen it until it is of the proper length (but not too much because the pen could break). Being skilled at making reed pens was important for scribes due to low durability of the pen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3604198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3604198", "title": "Romanian lexis", "text": "Romanian lexis\n\nThe lexis of the Romanian language (or Daco-Romanian), a Romance language, has changed over the centuries as the language evolved from Vulgar Latin, to Proto-Romanian, to medieval, modern and contemporary Romanian.\n\nRomanian has inherited a number of about 10.000 (on a study based on 49,649 words) lexical items from its ancestral language, Latin. These comprise most basic concepts of society, for example:\n\nMany words have not only changed their shape, but also their meaning during their evolution from Latin to Romanian. Such are:\n\nBy the later Middle Ages, a great number of Slavic loanwords had already entered Romanian.\n\nAmong the basic Slavic loanwords are:\n\nIn the 19th century, as the Romanian society transitioned from rural and agricultural towards urban and industrial, the lexis underwent a vigorous enrichment with loanwords from its Romance relatives, French and Italian. Many scholarly and technical terms were also imported from Neo-Latin. Some words, especially of Greek (\"arvună\", \"ipochimen\", \"simandicos\") and Turkish (\"acadea\", \"beizadea\", \"hatâr\") origin, fell into relative disuse or acquired an ironic connotation. The Slavic part of the lexis, of earlier entry and more deeply anchored into the language, survived relatively unscathed.\n\nAmong the words which entered the language:\n\nLarge parts of modern-day Romania were under Ottoman rule or suzerainty for several centuries. As a result, exchanges in language, food and culture occurred, and Romanian has absorbed several words of Turkish origin. A small ethnic Turkish minority still remains in some cities and towns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35628977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35628977", "title": "Rudolf Ströbinger", "text": "Rudolf Ströbinger\n\nRudolf Ströbinger (1931–2005) was a German journalist and writer.\n"}
{"id": "2150306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2150306", "title": "SPL notation", "text": "SPL notation\n\nSPL (Sentence Plan Language) is an abstract notation representing the semantics of a sentence in natural language. A generator can be used to transform input in SPL notation into a sentence in a natural language. There is no distinct definition of SPL available on the Internet, although some papers are available on the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "28287050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28287050", "title": "Seimat language", "text": "Seimat language\n\nThe Seimat language is one of three Western Admiralty Islands languages, the other two being Wuvulu-Aua and the extinct Kaniet. The language is spoken by approximately 1000 people on the Ninigo and the Anchorite Islands in western Manus Province of Papua New Guinea. It has SVO word order.\n\n"}
{"id": "3078632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3078632", "title": "Snowclone", "text": "Snowclone\n\nA snowclone is a cliché and phrasal template that can be used and recognized in multiple variants. The term was coined as a neologism in 2004, derived from journalistic clichés that referred to the number of Eskimo words for snow.\n\nThe linguistic phenomenon of \"a multi-use, customizable, instantly recognizable, time-worn, quoted or misquoted phrase or sentence that can be used in an entirely open array of different variants\" was originally described by linguist Geoffrey K. Pullum in 2003. Pullum later described snowclones as \"some-assembly-required adaptable cliché frames for lazy journalists.\"\n\nIn an October 2003 post on \"Language Log\", a collaborative blog by several linguistics professors, Pullum solicited ideas for what the then-unnamed phenomenon should be called. In response to the request, the word \"snowclone\" was coined by economics professor Glen Whitman on January 15, 2004, and Pullum endorsed it as a term of art the next day. The term was derived by Whitman from journalistic clichés which referred to the number of Eskimo words for snow, and incorporates a pun on the snow cone (a paper cone of shaved ice flavored with syrup).\n\nThe term \"snowclone\" has since been adopted by other linguists, journalists and authors.\n\nSnowclones are related to both memes and clichés, according to the \"Los Angeles Times\"s David Sarno: \"Snowclones are memechés, if you will: meme-ified clichés with the operative words removed, leaving spaces for you or the masses to Mad Lib their own versions.\"\n\nPullum, in his first discussion of what would later be called a snowclone, offered the following example of a template describing multiple variations of a journalistic cliché he had encountered: \"If Eskimos have words for snow, surely have words for .\"\nPullum cited this as a popular rhetorical trope used by journalists to imply that cultural group has reason to spend a great deal of time thinking about the specific idea , although the basic premise (that Eskimos have a larger number of words for snow) is often disputed by those who study \"Eskimo\" (Inuit and Aleut) languages.\n\nIn 2003, an article in \"The Economist\" stated, \"If Eskimos have dozens of words for snow, Germans have as many for bureaucracy.\" A similar construction in the \"Edmonton Sun\" in 2007 claimed that \"auto manufacturers have 100 words for beige\".\n\nThe original request from Geoffrey Pullum, in addition to citing the Eskimos-and-snow namesake of the term snowclone, mentioned a poster slogan for the 1979 film \"Alien\", \"In space, no one can hear you scream\", which was cloned into numerous variations, such as \"In space, no one can see your breasts\".\n\nFrequently-seen snowclones include phrases in the form of the template \" is the new \". The original (and still common) form is the template \" is the new black\", apparently based on a misquotation of Diana Vreeland's 1962 statement that pink is \"the navy blue of India\". According to language columnist Nathan Bierma, this snowclone provides \"a tidy and catchy way of conveying an increase, or change in nature, or change in function – or all three – of .\"\n\nExamples include a 2001 album titled \"Quiet Is the New Loud\", a 2008 newspaper headline that stated \"Comedy is the new rock 'n' roll\", and the title of and 2013 Netflix original series \"Orange Is the New Black\".\n\n\"The mother of all \", a hyperbole which has been used to refer to something as \"great\" or \"the greatest of its kind\", became a popular snowclone template in the 1990s. The phrase entered American popular culture in September 1990 at the outset of the Gulf War, when Saddam Hussein's Revolutionary Command Council warned the U.S.-led Coalition against military action in Kuwait with the statement \"Let everyone understand that this battle is going to become the mother of all battles.\" The phrase was repeated in a January 1991 speech by Saddam Hussein. A calque from Arabic, the snowclone gained popularity in the media and was adapted for phrases such as \"the mother of all bombs\" and New Zealand's \"Mother of all Budgets\". The American Dialect Society declared \"the mother of all\" the 1991 Word of the Year. The term \"Father of All Bombs\" was created by an analogy.\n\nThe Arabic phrase originated from an Arab victory over the Sassanian Persians in 636 AD, described with the earliest known use of the phrase \"mother of all battles\" (Arabic: \"\"). Although popularly used simply to mean \"greatest\" or \"ultimate\", the Arabic \"umm al-\" prefix creates a figurative phrase in which \"mother\" also suggests that the referent will give rise to many more of its kind. The phrase was used in the naming of a mosque in Baghdad, the Umm al-Ma'arik Mosque.\n\nThe template \" while black\", and its original popular construction \"driving while black\", were derived from wordplay on driving while intoxicated, and referred to black people being pulled over by police because of racial profiling. A prominent variant, \"voting while black\", surfaced during the U.S. presidential elections of 2000 and 2004, in reference to attempts to suppress black votes. Snowclones of this form, highlighting unequal treatment of black people, have included \"walking while black\" for pedestrian offenses, \"learning while black\" for students in schools, \"drawing while black\" for artists, and \"shopping while black\" or \"eating while black\" for customers in stores and restaurants. A 2017 legal case prompted the variant \"talking while black\".\n\nA more generalized form of this snowclone, \" while \", has been used for other groups that are purportedly targeted for unequal treatment, as in the examples \"flying while Muslim\" and \"breathing while Republican\".\n\n\"To or not to \" is a template based on the line \"To be, or not to be\", spoken by the titular character in William Shakespeare's play \"Hamlet\" ( 1600). This template appears to have existed even prior to \"Hamlet\", and had previously been used specifically in a religious context to discuss \"actions that are at once contradictory and indifferent—actions that, because they are neither commanded nor prohibited by Scripture, good nor evil in themselves, Christians are free to perform or omit.\"\n\nIn general usage, \"to or not to \" simply conveys \"disjunction between contradictory alternatives\", which linguist Arnold Zwicky described as an \"utterly ordinary structure.\" A Google search by Zwicky for snowclones of the form \"to * or not to *\" resulted in over 16 million hits, although some apparent occurrences may be cases of a natural contrastive disjunction unrelated to the Shakespearean snowclone template.\n\nThe earliest known literary mention of the template \"Have , will travel\" is the title of the book \"Have Tux, Will Travel\", a 1954 memoir by comedian Bob Hope. Hope explained that \"Have tuxedo, will travel\" was a stock phrase used in short advertisements placed by actors in \"Variety\", indicating that the actor was \"ready to go any place any time\" and to be \"dressed classy\" upon arrival. The use of variations of this template by job seekers goes back considerably earlier, dating to at least the 1920s, possibly , in \"The Times\" of London.\n\nVariants of the snowclone were used in the titles of the 1957 Western television show \"Have Gun – Will Travel\", Robert A. Heinlein's 1958 novel \"Have Space Suit—Will Travel\", Richard Berry's 1959 song \"Have Love, Will Travel\", Bo Diddley's 1960 album \"Have Guitar Will Travel\", The Three Stooges' 1959 film \"Have Rocket, Will Travel\" and Joe Perry's 2009 album \"Have Guitar, Will Travel\".\n\nIn 1995, linguist David Crystal referred to this kind of trope as a \"catch structure\", citing as an example the phrase \"to boldly split infinitives that no man had split before\", as originally used in Douglas Adams's \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" radio series (1978). The phrase references \"Star Trek\" (\"... to boldly go where no man has gone before\"), humorously highlighting the use of a split infinitive as an intentional violation of a disputed traditional rule of grammar.\n\nIn the study of folklore, the related concept of a proverbial phrase has a long history of description and analysis. There are many kinds of such wordplay, as described in a variety of studies of written and oral sources.\n\nThe appending of the \"-gate\" suffix to words to denote a scandal (which originates from the Watergate scandal that brought down the U.S. presidency of Richard Nixon) has also been referred to as a snowclone. However, Geoffrey Pullum, the linguistics professor who originally defined the term \"snowclone\", states that \"-gate\" is only a \"lexical word-formation analog of it, an extension of the concept from syntax into derivational morphology\".\n\nLike the \"-gate\" suffix, the Italian ' suffix emerged in Italian media from investigations in the 1990s that uncovered a system known as '. The term derives from ', which means kickback (e.g., bribery given for public works contracts), and ', meaning city. Examples of snowclone-like use of ' include ' (a financial scandal) and \"\" (a 2006 Italian football scandal).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19121741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19121741", "title": "Sorani grammar", "text": "Sorani grammar\n\nSorani is a Central Kurdish dialect. Sorani Kurdish is written with the Arabic alphabet, it has 8 vowels:î[i], û[u], i[I], u[ʊ], e[e], o[o], a[æ], â[ɑ]. \n\nA Kurdish noun in the absolute state, i.e. without any ending of any kind, gives a generic sense of the noun. It is also the “lexical” form of the noun, i.e. the form in which a noun is given in a vocabulary list or dictionary. The absolute state is normally used for the generic sense, as in \"قاوه ڕەشه\" \"qâwa rasha\"(coffee is black).\n\nThe main tenses\n\nFor intransitive verbs with past stems ending in a consonant (like hatin > hat-), the past perfect tense,which is functionally equivalent to the English past perfect (‘I had come, you had gone’), is formed from the past stem + i + the past tense of bûn ‘to be.’ Verbs with past stems ending in a vowel (like bûn > bû) form the past perfect tense from the simple stem + the past tense of bûn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25187406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25187406", "title": "Sri Krishna Rai Hridyesh", "text": "Sri Krishna Rai Hridyesh\n\nSri Krishna Rai \"Hridyesh\" (1 September 1910 – 13 June 1999) was a literary figure of Hindi. He belongs to Kathaut, Gauspur Ghazipur U P. He was a freedom fighter. He wrote more than two dozen books and was founder of Ghazipur Nagari Pracharani Sabha.\n\n"}
{"id": "3306586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3306586", "title": "Tadaksahak", "text": "Tadaksahak\n\nTadaksahak (also \"Daoussahak, Dausahaq\" and other spellings, after the Tuareg name for its speakers, Dăwsăhak) is a Songhay language spoken by the pastoralist Idaksahak of the Ménaka Region of Mali. Its phonology, verb morphology and vocabulary has been strongly influenced by the neighbouring Tuareg languages Tamasheq and Tamajaq.\n\n"}
{"id": "1099548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099548", "title": "Why England Slept", "text": "Why England Slept\n\nWhy England Slept is the published version of a thesis written by John F. Kennedy while in his senior year at Harvard College. Its title is an allusion to Winston Churchill's 1938 book \"While England Slept,\" which also examined the buildup of German power. Published in 1940, Kennedy's book examines the failures of the British government to take steps to prevent World War II, and its initial lack of response to Adolf Hitler's threats of war.\n\nIt is notable for its uncommon stance of suggesting instead that an earlier confrontation between the United Kingdom and Nazi Germany could well have been more disastrous in the long run, rather than castigating the appeasement policy which the British government pursued at the time.\n\nThe book was originally intended to be no more than a college thesis. It was rated \"magna cum laude\" by Professor Henry A. Yeomans and \"cum laude plus\" by Professor Carl J. Friedrich. However, Kennedy's father, Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr., keen to elevate his son's reputation, encouraged Kennedy to convert the thesis into book form and publish it. He then enlisted Henry Luce to write the foreword, and his friend Arthur Krock, former bureau chief of \"The New York Times,\" to assist in redrafting the thesis, which had originally been titled \"Appeasement At Munich\".\n\nThe writer Garry Wills claims that this assistance amounted to rewriting and retitling the manuscript, as well as finding an agent for its publication. As ambassador to Britain, Kennedy, Sr. supported Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain's policy of appeasement during the late 1930s. John F. Kennedy lived with his father in Britain at that time and as such witnessed the Luftwaffe's bombings of Britain first-hand.\n\nAfter publication in 1940, the book sold 80,000 copies in the United Kingdom and the United States, collecting US$40,000 in royalties for Kennedy. Those from the British sales were donated to Plymouth, England, recently bombed by the Luftwaffe, while Kennedy bought a Buick convertible with his income from the book's North-American sales.\n\nJoseph Kennedy had initially approached Harold Laski to write the book's foreword, but Laski declined, feeling that it was \"the book of an immature mind; that if it hadn't been written by the son of a very rich man, he wouldn't have found a publisher.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2618932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2618932", "title": "Yazghulami language", "text": "Yazghulami language\n\nThe Yazgulyam language (also Yazgulyami, Iazgulem, Yazgulam; ) is a member of the Southeastern subgroup of the Iranian languages, spoken by around 9,000 people along the Yazgulyam River in Gorno-Badakhshan, Tajikistan. Together with Shugni, it is classified in a Shugni-Yazgulami subgroup of the areal group of Pamir languages. Virtually all speakers are bilingual in the Tajik language.\n\nThe Yazgulyam people are an exception among the speakers of Pamir languages in that they do not adhere to Ismailism.\n\nThe Yazgulami language consists of two dialects: one of these is spoken higher in the mountains, the other lower. The differences are not significant and are limited to the vocabulary. Differences in the vocabulary are also detectable between the languages used in different villages in the lower mountains. The extinct Vanji language (also Vanži) is closely related to Yazgulami. Other languages spoken in the Pamirs differ greatly from the Yazgulami language. The disparities are the largest in the vocabulary.\n\nThe language was first recorded by Russian traveller G. Arandarenko in 1889, listing 34 Yazgulami words recorded in 1882. The language was described in greater detail by French linguist Robert Gauthiot in \"Notes sur le yazggoulami, dialecte iranien des Confins du Pamir\" (1916).\n\nIn 1954 the Yazgulami living on the mountain slopes were resettled, about 20% of them forcibly, to the Vakhsh valley, where they live dispersed among the Tajiks, Uzbeks, Russians and other ethnic groups.\n\nThe phonology of the Yazgulyam language differs from the basic \"Shugni-Roshani\" type in its system of dorsal consonants: in addition to the velar and uvular stops \"g, k, q\" and fricatives \"x̌, γ̌, x, γ,\", Yazgulami has a palatalised and a labialised series, transcribed as \"ḱ, ǵ\" (palatalised velars), \"k° g° x̌°\" (labialised velars, there is no labialised velar voiced fricative) and \"q° x° γ°\" (labialised uvulars). A significant number of labialised consonants etymologically correspond to Proto-Iranian \"*Cv\" or \"*Cu\", e.g. \"x̌°arg\" < \"*hvaharā-\" \"sister\", while others are unrelated to Proto-Iranian \"v\", e.g. \"sk°on\" < \"skana-\" \"puppy\".\n\nThis threefold system of articulation of dorsals has been compared typologically to the three reconstructed rows of dorsals in the Proto-Indo-European language.\n\nIn the past tense, Yazgulyam has tripartite marking—one of the very few languages in the world to have it at all. This means that the subject of an intransitive sentence is treated differently from both the subject and the object of a transitive sentence.\n\n\n"}
