{"id": "31708220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31708220", "title": "'Abd ar-Rahman ibn Muhammad al-Amin", "text": "'Abd ar-Rahman ibn Muhammad al-Amin\n\nAbd ar-Rahman, Abdurrahman or Darman was \"Shehu\" of Borno from 1853 to 1854.\n\nWith the help of some courtiers of Kukawa, 'Abd ar-Rahman deposed his brother Umar in November 1853 and became \"Shehu\" of Borno. He was considered too violent and tyrannical by his followers which explains why he only reigned for ten months before his brother reconquered his throne in September 1854. He was then executed, most probably in December 1854.\n\nIn 1851, a British expedition led by Heinrich Barth arrived in Borno. For Barth,'Abd ar-Rahman was a\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43027573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43027573", "title": "2014 Beas River Tragedy", "text": "2014 Beas River Tragedy\n\n2014 Beas River disaster refers to the 8 June 2014 drowning of 24 second-year engineering students (6 female and 18 male) and one tour operator from V.N.R. Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology of Hyderabad at the Beas River in Himachal Pradesh. The accident took place in the Thalout area (Shalanala Village) of Mandi district and was the result of a sudden surge of river water released upstream from the Larji hydro electric project.\n\n48 students and 3 faculty/staff members of the V.N.R. Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (Hyderabad) were on an Educational/Industrial Tour from Shimla to Manali, about 200 kilometres (130 miles) from Himachal Pradesh capital Shimla. Some of them were getting themselves photographed on the banks of the Beas river on the Mandi-Manali National Highway NH-21, when they were washed away as the water flow in the river suddenly increased. The surge of water occurred when the Larji hydroelectric power project opened its floodgates, sending tonnes of water downstream.\n\nThe dam water was released suddenly by the dam authorities without prior notice. Two students Raman Teja Venigalla and Biswas Nandamuri were alarmed when men on the shore collecting sand began to point and yell \"Dam\" just a few seconds before the water gushed in.\n\nFootage surfaced on the internet two days after the incident which showed how the victims were caught unaware before the river carried them away. The video was shot by Bihari Lal, who was present about 100 metres above the river bed on a hilly area where a wedding was being held .\n\nSensing the danger Kiran Kumar Muppidi and Asish Mantha selflessly started helping the other students to reach the river bank. It has been reported by the surviving students that Kiran Kumar Muppidi had saved 5 fellow students before he slipped away. Devasish Bose was seen fighting hard to save one of the fellow students before he went missing. According to first hand witness the unofficial tour guide had jumped into the current to save some students.\n\nAuthorities deployed over 550 rescue team members including divers from NDRF, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), and Indo-Tibetan Border Police ITBP, Indian Army, Indian Navy, the Paramilitary, the local firemen and policemen, and a private team of swimmers and divers trained by the Additional DGP of Police (Sports) in Telangana, Mr. Rajeev Trivedi. UAVs, multi-beam sonar, and lidar were also deployed to trace missing students along the 15 km stretch from Larji Dam to Pandoh Dam. Beginning 16 June, the parents of the students who were camping in Himachal Pradesh started leaving for their native places.\n\nThe bodies of all 23 students and the tour guide were recovered. Kalluri Sree Harsha's body was not recovered.\n\nA case has been registered against officials of the Larji Hydroelectric Project and College for causing the death of 24 engineering students through negligence. The case was registered after eyewitnesses claimed that the hooter was not sounded before the flow of water into the river was increased.\n\nAn initial probe suggested that Larji power project was asked to reduce generation on the day of the tragedy but that plant officials instead shut it down. As a result of this, the water that had built up in its reservoir needed to be released, leading to a sudden surge in the Beas river. It has been reported by some news agencies that the Larji hydroelectric power project has been involved with local sand mafia and this was what made the officials open the gates without proper control.\n\nThe Himachal High Court awarded compensation of 20 Lakh rupees to parents of students which will be shared in a ratio of 60:30:10 by the Electricity Board, the College and the State of Himachal Pradesh.\n"}
{"id": "4371894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4371894", "title": "A-Trak", "text": "A-Trak\n\nAlain Macklovitch (born March 30, 1982), known by his stage name A-Trak, is a Canadian DJ, turntablist, record producer, and music label executive. He is the owner of the record label Fool's Gold which was founded in 2007, and is credited for developing the careers of artists such as Kid Cudi, Danny Brown, and Flosstradamus. A-Trak's career has spanned nearly two decades, leading \"Rolling Stone\" to name him one of the 50 Most Important People in EDM. A-Trak is also part of the DJ duo Duck Sauce with Armand Van Helden, which was nominated for a Grammy in 2012 for their song \"Barbra Streisand\". A-Trak was featured on the covers of \"Billboard\" and \"Complex\" and recently appeared in campaigns for Adidas, Grey Goose, Converse and Cadillac. A-Trak has also penned a number of articles for \"The Huffington Post\" and owns the travel website Infinite Legroom. After residing in Brooklyn for many years, he now calls Los Angeles home.\n\nMacklovitch was born to Moroccan Jewish Mother and Russian Jewish father in Montréal, Quebec. When he was 18 years old, his mother took him and his brother back to Morocco to connect with their roots. His older brother, David Macklovitch, is one-half of the electro-funk duo Chromeo.\n\nA-Trak was the first DJ to win all three major DJ competition titles (DMC, ITF and Vestax), as well as being the first DJ to win five World Championships. He won the DMC World DJ Championship in 1997 at the age of 15, making him the youngest and first Canadian winner of the competition. He was an honorary member of the now defunct DJ crew Invisibl Skratch Piklz, and a member of The Allies alongside frequent collaborator DJ Craze.\n\nIn the late 90's A-Trak developed a notation system for scratching. He gave a lecture about it at the Skratchcon 2000 conference and published an article in \"Tablist\" Magazine. He has also appeared on the cover of multiple magazines including \"Billboard\", \"URB\" (twice), \"BPM\" and \"Status\".\n\nA-Trak and his brother Dave ran the record label Audio Research from 1997–2007. After moving to Williamsburg, he founded the label Fool's Gold Records with Nick Catchdubs in 2007.\n\nA-Trak had been booked to play a show, in 2004 at a tiny record shop in London. Kanye West came to support John Legend who was also playing in the same show. In 2004, Kanye West recruited A-Trak as his personal tour DJ, and he has worked closely with him ever since, including performances alongside the rapper at MTV specials, the Grammy Awards, multiple MTV Video Music Awards, and worldwide stadium shows. A-Trak also recorded scratches on Kanye West's second and third studio albums \"Late Registration\" (2005) and \"Graduation\" (2007) and was an influence on the overall sound of the latter.\n\nOver the years he has endorsed several brands including Serato Scratch Live and Rane DJ equipment.\n\nHe is known for merging the sounds of rap and electronic music through his remix work, his 2007 CD \"Dirty South Dance\", his production for Kid Sister and Lupe Fiasco, and his remixes for electronic artists including MSTRKRFT and Boys Noize. However, some of his production displays a separation of his electronic and hip hop identities, with releases such as \"Piss Test\" featuring Juicy J and collaborations with Tommy Trash on \"Tuna Melt\". Another hip hop production, \"Ray Ban Vision\", was used in the 2012 movie Project X.\n\nIn 2009, A-Trak collaborated with Armand Van Helden to form a disco house production duo under the name Duck Sauce. They released the song \"Anyway\" in October on Ministry of Sound. Duck Sauce has achieved success worldwide including reaching the top chart position in twelve countries and attaining the #1 spot on the US Dance Billboard charts. Following the announcement of a debut album, Duck Sauce released the singles \"It's You\" and \"Radio Stereo\".\n\nIn February 2010, it was announced that A-Trak would perform live shows with Travis Barker, who had previously worked with their mutual friend, the late DJ AM. On June 8 of that year, A-Trak released his wildly successful remix of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs' track \"Heads Will Roll\", which was also featured on the Project X (2012 film) soundtrack.\n\nIn 2012, A-Trak was featured on the cover of \"Billboard\" Magazine alongside Diplo and Skrillex. Also in 2012, A-Trak collaborated with Kimbra and Mark Foster on a song, entitled \"Warrior\", for Converse's \"3 Artists, 1 song\".\n\nIn February 2013, A-Trak released the video for his \"Piss Test\" remix off of the Fool's Gold album. The video features appearances by Jim Jones, Juicy J, A$AP Ferg, El-P, Flatbush Zombies, and Flosstradamus and was directed by Shomi Patwary. A-Trak's video for \"Tuna Melt\", off of his 'Tuna Melt EP', was nominated in the Best Cinematography category at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nIn January 2014, A-Trak teamed up with Cadillac in a campaign to introduce their new logo and the 2015 ATS Coup. On November 25, 2014 A-Trak released his \"Push\" \"EP\", featuring his single \"Push\" (featuring Andrew Wyatt).\n\nIn January 2015, A-Trak was featured on fellow producer Diplo's BBC Radio 1 show \"Diplo & Friends\".\n\nA-Trak was named as one of the featured artists in the 2015 Renaissance Hotels' music and entertainment program in April 2015.\n\nOn May 4, 2015 A-Trak released his remix of Alesso's song \"Cool\" (featuring Roy English). On May 18, 2015 the \"Push\" remix album was released featuring remixes from The Chainsmokers, Cazzette, René LaVice, DallasK, GANZ, Shash'U PWRFNK, Mak and Pasteman, and Patrick Hagenaar.\n\nA-Trak then began his own weekly two-hour radio show on Beats 1, listened to via Apple Music Connect, named \"Day Off Radio\" on July 4, 2015.\n\nA-Trak was featured on Zhu (musician)'s 2015 EP \"Genesis Series\" for his track \"As Crazy as It Is\" with ZHU and Keznamdi. He was also featured on Disclosure (band)'s \"Magnets [The Remixes] EP,\" for his remix of \"Magnets\" (featuring Lorde).\n\nA-Trak released his EP \"We All Fall Down\" on October 30, 2015 featuring his single \"We All Fall Down\" (featuring Jamie Lidell), as well as remixes by Volt & State, CID and Jarreau Vandal. On December 11 later that year, the \"We All Fall Down [Remixes] EP\" was released featuring remixes by JayKode, eSQUIRE, Cory Enemy and Syre, Dombresky, STFU, and Willy Joy. A week later on December 18, 2015 A-Trak's \"Place on Earth\" single with ZooFunktion was released on Spinnin' Records.\n\nA-Trak was featured on the 2016 Fool's Gold Records compilation album \"Fool's Gold Presents: Night Shift,\" for his song \"Only One\" with Ookay.\n\nOn May 3, 2016 A-Trak premiered his single \"Parallel Lines\" (featuring Phantogram (band)) on Zane Lowe's Beats 1 Radio show. The \"Parallel Lines [Remixes] EP\" is set to be released on July 1, 2016 and features remixes from MSTRKRFT, Chris Lorenzo, Bart B, Holl & Rush, BLU J, and Doobious.\n\nA-Trak will embark on an Australian Tour with fellow producer What So Not on June 30, 2016.\n\nIn August 2016 Fool's Gold Day Off, the annual festival put on by Fool's Gold Records, will celebrate its sixth year with shows in New York City, Miami and Los Angeles.\n\nIn 2018, the single \"Ride for Me\" was released as a collaboration by A-Trak, Falcons, Young Thug and 24hrs via A-Trak's record label Fool's Gold.\n\n\nIn 2017, A-Trak was nominated for DJ of the Year at the Electronic Music Awards.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11559001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11559001", "title": "Abibos of Nekresi", "text": "Abibos of Nekresi\n\nAbibus of Nekressi () (fl. 6th century) was one of the thirteen Assyrian apostles of Georgia and the bishop of Nekresi who arrived in Georgia under the leadership of St. Ioane of Zedazeni (John of Zedazeni). He began his activity as bishop in a village which was located in the hills in the eastern region of Kakheti.\nAccording to the chronicle Life of Kartli, he was spreading Christianity not only among Georgians but also among the mountain tribes such as the Dagestani/Didoians, the ancient predecessors of modern Dagestan.\n\nAt that time there was a dark period of Persian rule in eastern Georgia. The main religion of Persians was Zoroastrianism - worship of fire. St. Abibos is said to have doused a sacred Zoroastrian flame with water. He was captured by the pagan priests, was tied up and beaten before be brought to the marzban. Simeon the Stylite of the Wonderful Mountain sent him a letter, an eulogia (probably a piece of prosphoron) and a staff to strengthen his soul. He was stoned to death by Zoroastrian Persians at Rekhi and his body was dragged from the city and cast to the beasts.\n\nIn spite of the stringent prohibition to take his body the priests and monks of Rekhi stole it. They buried it with great honor at Samtavisi Monastery (located midway between Mtskheta and Gori). During the rule of Prince Stepanoz of Kartli, the relics of St. Abibos were relocated from Samtavisi to Samtavro Monastery in Mtskheta. They were buried under the holy altar at Samtavro Church.\n\nHis feast day had been kept on November 12 through 1700, but later changed to December 12 on the Gregorian calendar and November 29 on the Julian calendar correspondingly.\n\n"}
{"id": "50593682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50593682", "title": "Agnes II de Dammartin", "text": "Agnes II de Dammartin\n\nAgnes II de Dammartin (fl. 1507), was a German-Roman monarch as Princess Abbess of the Imperial Remiremont Abbey in France. She was abbess from 1505 until 1507. \n\nDuring her tenure, the discipline was described as lax. The nuns of the chapter had declared themselves canonesses without the consent of the pope, admitted only novices who could give proof of noble descent, and did not take the vows.\n"}
{"id": "10388391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10388391", "title": "Alaungsithu", "text": "Alaungsithu\n\nAlaungsithu or Sithu I ( ; also Cansu I; 1090–1167) was king of Pagan Dynasty of Burma (Myanmar) from 1112/13 to 1167. Sithu's reign was a prosperous one in which Pagan was an integral part of in-land and maritime trading networks. Sithu engaged in a massive building campaign throughout the kingdom, which included colonies, forts and outposts at strategic locations to strengthen the frontiers, ordination halls and pagodas for the support of religion, as well as reservoirs, dams and other land improvements to assist the farmers. He also introduced standardized weights and measures throughout the country to assist administration as well as trade. He presided over the beginning of a transition away from the Mon culture toward the expression of a distinctive Burman style.\n\nSithu is remembered a peripatetic king who traveled extensively throughout his realm, built monuments and nurtured Theravada Buddhism with acts of piety.\n\nSithu was born Zeyathura Sithu (, ) to Saw Yun (son of King Saw Lu) and Shwe Einthi (daughter of King Kyansittha) on 17 January 1090. (According to \"Zatadawbon Yazawin\", he was born on 13 December 1089.) The chronicles do not agree on the dates regarding his life and reign. The table below lists the dates given by the four main chronicles.\n\nAt Sithu's birth, Kyansittha, who thought that he had no son, was so delighted that he crowned the infant as king, and presented the baby to the people saying \"Behold your king! Henceforth, I reign only as his regent.\" (It turned out that Kyansittha did have a son by a wife during one of his exiles in the 1070s. That son, Yazakumar, made no claims of the throne.)\n\nSithu faced no opposition to the throne after his grandfather, Kyanzittha, died in 1112. He was the great grandson of Anawrahta on his mother's side. His coronation was presided by an aging Primate Shin Arahan who also presided the coronations of the two predecessor kings, and adviser to three previous kings. Upon ascending the throne, Sithu assumed the royal style Sri Tribhuwanaditya Pavarapandita Sudhammaraja Mahadhipati Narapatisithu.\n\nThe early part of Sithu's reign was spent repressing revolts, especially in Tenasserim and north Arakan. A Pali inscription found at Mergui (Myeik) is evidence that Tenasserim then paid allegiance to the Pagan monarchy. In north Arakan, a usurper (Kahton, lord of Thets) had driven out the rightful heir, who fled to Pagan, where he subsequently died. Pagan's initial attempt to restore the rightful heir Letya Min Nan—a combined land and seaborne invasion—failed but the second attempt in 1118 succeeded. (The Arakanese chronicles report the date as 1103.) Letya Min Nan, in gratitude, repaired the Buddhagaya shrine in the honor of his overlord Sithu.\n\nSithu traveled far and wide throughout his dominions, building many works of merit. These pious pilgrimages form the main theme of the chronicles of his reign. He reportedly sailed as far south as Malaya and Bengal in the west. Like his great-grandfather Anawrahta, he also traveled to Nanzhao Kingdom. There was apparently much disorder during his long absences from the capital.\n\nThe rulings given at his court, some of which by himself, once existed in a collection, the Alaungsithu Hpyatton.\n\nSithu's reign was a prosperous one in which Pagan was an integral part of in-land and maritime trading networks. Sithu engaged in a massive building campaign throughout the kingdom, which included colonies, forts and outposts at strategic locations to strengthen the frontiers, ordination halls and pagodas for the support of religion, as well as reservoirs, dams and other land improvements to assist the farmers. He also introduced standardized weights and measures throughout the country to assist administration as well as trade. The standardization provided an impetus for the monetization of Pagan's economy, the full impact of which however would not be felt until later in the 12th century.\n\nThe wealth funded the temple building boom that began in his grandfather's reign. However, a noticeable shift from the Mon architecture to a Burman-style architecture began. The temples built during his reign include the last examples of Mon architecture at Pagan as well as the earliest efforts to construct Burman-style temples, the most famous example of which is the Thatbyinnyu. Consecrated in 1144, the temple stands about 500 yards from the Ananda Temple, and with its spire rising to a height of over , it is the tallest of all the Pagan monuments. He also built the Shwegugyi Temple, next to the palace.\n\nHis eldest son Min Shin Saw was the heir-apparent for most of Sithu's reign. In the 1060s, the king banished Min Shin Saw for the latter's ill treatment of people. Having sent Min Shin Saw a small town about 90 miles north of Pagan, Sithu then appointed the second son Narathu as heir apparent.\n\nIn 1167, Sithu fell ill. Narathu, who could not wait to be king, moved the king from the palace to the nearby Shwegugyi Temple. When he regained consciousness, Sithu was furious that he had been set aside. Narathu came in and smothered the king with bedclothes.\n\nSithu is posthumously remembered in Burmese history as Alaungsithu (lit. \"Sithu the Maitreya Buddha\") for his numerous pious deeds. The devout Buddhist king was also inducted into the pantheon of Burmese animist nats as Min Sithu. (All but one of the nat sprits in the pantheon were murdered.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2281748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281748", "title": "Alla Amidas", "text": "Alla Amidas\n\nAlla Amidas (c. 540) was a King of the Kingdom of Aksum. He is primarily known from the coins minted during his reign.\n\nDue to die-links between the coins of Alla Amidas and Kaleb, Munro-Hay suggests that the two kings were co-rulers. Alla Amidas possibly ruled the Aksumite territories on the western side of the Red Sea, while Kaleb was campaigning in the east in Southern Arabia.\n"}
{"id": "18799078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18799078", "title": "Baby Doe Tabor", "text": "Baby Doe Tabor\n\nElizabeth McCourt Tabor (1854 – March 7, 1935), better known as Baby Doe, was the second wife of pioneer Colorado businessman Horace Tabor. Her rags-to-riches and back to rags again story made her a well-known figure in her own day, and inspired an opera and a Hollywood movie based on her life.\n\nBorn in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, she moved to Colorado in the mid-1870s with her first husband, Harvey Doe, whom she divorced for drinking, gambling, frequenting brothels, and being unable to provide a living.\n\nShe then moved to Leadville, Colorado, where she met Tabor, a wealthy silver magnate almost twice her age. In 1883 he divorced his first wife, to whom he had been married for 25 years, and married Baby Doe in Washington, D.C. during his brief stint as a US senator, after which they took up residence in Denver. His divorce and remarriage to the young and beautiful Baby Doe caused a scandal in 1880s Colorado. Although Tabor was one of the wealthiest men in Colorado, supporting his wife in a lavish style, he lost his fortune when the repeal of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act caused the Panic of 1893 with widespread bankruptcies in silver-producing regions such as Colorado. He died destitute, and she returned to Leadville with her two daughters, living out the rest of her life there.\n\nAt one time the \"best dressed woman in the West\", for the final three decades of her life, she lived in a shack on the site of the Matchless Mine, enduring great poverty, solitude, and repentance. After a snowstorm in March 1935, she was found frozen in her cabin, aged about 81 years. During her lifetime she became the subject of malicious gossip and scandal, defied Victorian gender values, and gained a \"reputation of one of the most beautiful, flamboyant, and alluring women in the mining West\". Her story inspired the opera \"The Ballad of Baby Doe\".\n\nElizabeth Bonduel McCourt (or according to some accounts Elizabeth Nellis McCourt) was born in 1854 in Oshkosh, Wisconsin to Irish-Catholic immigrants Peter and Elizabeth McCourt. She later claimed to have been born in 1860. She appears to have been christened on October 7, 1854 at St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church. Called Lizzie as a child, the fourth of eleven children, she grew up in a middle-class family in a two-story house. Her father was a partner in a local clothing store and owner of Oshkosh's first theater, McCourt Hall. Her mother fostered in her beautiful daughter the belief that her looks were of great worth, excusing her from domestic chores so as to preserve her skin and allowing her to dream of a future as an actress. Concerned by his wife's indulgence in their young and striking daughter, Peter McCourt thought it prudent to put her to work at the clothing store, where she was often in the company of fashionable young men. At age 16, she was a \"fashionably plump\" blond-haired young woman with a hectic social schedule.\n\nOshkosh was a frontier lumber town, filled with mills. When fires raged through Oshkosh in 1874 and again in 1875, the McCourts lost their home, the clothing store, and the theater. They mortgaged their property to rebuild the home and the business, but this put Peter McCourt deeply in debt. The family was forced to live on what amounted to little more than a clerk's salary.\n\nIn 1876, Lizzie McCourt met Harvey Doe, who was a Protestant. She enchanted him when, as the only woman competitor, she entered and won a skating competition, while at same time scandalizing many of the townspeople by wearing a costume that showed glimpses of her legs. Lizzy and Harvey were married in 1877 at the Catholic church, to the dissatisfaction of his parents. They then traveled with Harvey's father to Colorado to look after his mining investments, most importantly his half-ownership of the Fourth of July Mine in Central City. After a two-week honeymoon in Denver's American House, the newlyweds joined the elder Doe in the mining town in the mountains. Lizzie found Colorado enchanting. There she may have gained the nickname \"Baby Doe\".\n\nIn Central City, she quickly found that her husband's reserved temperament was unsuitable for a boisterous frontier mining town, and that he was unable either to manage a mine on his own or to follow his father's instructions on how to do so. Rather than see him fail, and enchanted with the possibility of becoming wealthy from mining gold, she helped her husband. She often dressed in mining clothes and worked directly in the mine. Despite a somewhat relaxed culture in the frontier mining town, those in the highest strata of the city's society considered her behavior and dress scandalous, causing her to be ignored. Through both their efforts, the Does did manage to bring up a small amount of gold, but when the vein ran out and a poorly constructed shaft collapsed, Harvey gave up and decided to take a job as a common mucker at another mine. He told his wife to stop wearing men's clothing and stay at home.\n\nAt that time, they moved from Central City to Black Hawk to live in a less expensive rooming house. Greatly disappointed and disenchanted by the noise and dirt in Black Hawk, Baby Doe began to take walks around the city each day. Then aged 23, she may have gained the name \"Baby Doe\" from the local men watching. She lacked domestic skills with which to work and earn money, and she had nothing in common with the women of the town. Often, having little to do with her time, she visited the local clothing store, attracted in part by the expensive fabrics. She became friendly with the owner of the town's clothing store, Jake Sandelowsky. At the same time Harvey lost his job, and their marriage began to deteriorate. By that time Baby Doe was pregnant. Suspecting the child was Jake's, Harvey left her temporarily, and in July 1879, Baby Doe gave birth to a stillborn boy.\n\nMeanwhile, Harvey's parents, expecting a grandchild, had moved to Colorado to be near the family. Disappointed, they severed their ties with the two and moved to Idaho Springs, while Baby Doe followed Harvey to Denver despite wishing for a divorce from him. In Denver, Harvey frequented saloons and brothels. After witnessing him with a prostitute, Baby Doe filed for divorce on the grounds of adultery. The divorce was quickly granted in March 1880, but for unknown reasons was not officially recorded until April 1886. Baby Doe then moved to Leadville, Colorado, almost certainly invited there by Sandelowsky, who changed his name to Sands. Alone and without a husband, Baby Doe needed to find a means of financial support quickly. Jake Sandelowsky, who opened a store in Leadville and almost certainly wanted to marry her, offered her employment. Working at a clothing store, however, was a prospect Baby Doe found dull, boring, and too similar to the life she had left behind in Oshkosh.\n\nIn Leadville, she caught the attention of Horace Tabor, mining millionaire and owner of Leadville's Matchless Mine. Tabor was married, but in 1880 he left his wife Augusta to be with Baby Doe; he established her in plush suites at hotels in Leadville and Denver.\n\nHorace and Augusta Tabor had lived for 25 years on the frontier, first moving to Kansas where they tried their hand at agriculture, then following the gold rush to Colorado, but never striking it rich. Eventually they found their way to Leadville, where Horace, in 1878, grub-staked two prospectors with about $60 worth of goods in return for one-third of their profits. To everyone's surprise, the two men's stake was successful, beginning Tabor's path to wealth. With his profits, he bought out the two, then bought stakes in more mines, and had a house built in Denver. He ran successfully for Lieutenant Governor of Colorado in 1878, (when still a territory), and established the Little Pittsburg Consolidated Mining Company, which quickly gained a worth of about $20 million. He bought the Matchless Mine, which for many years produced large amounts of silver. His profits were so great that he was quickly on his way to becoming one of the richest men in the country.\n\nAt an altitude of 10,000 feet, Leadville was the second largest city in Colorado. It boasted over 100 saloons and gambling places, multiple daily and weekly newspapers, and 36 brothels. Tabor's presence seemed to be everywhere. He opened the Tabor Opera House in Leadville, bought luxury items for his wife, Augusta, and established a private army that he used for protection of his holdings and as a force against striking miners. He spent his money lavishly, mostly on his own entertainment—drinking, gambling and frequenting brothels. In 1880, Augusta moved away from him to live in Denver while Tabor enjoyed himself in Leadville. A Denver newspaper columnist described him as \"Stoop-shouldered; ambling gait ...black hair, inclined to baldness ...dresses in black; magnificent cuff buttons of diamonds and onyx ...worth 8 million dollars.\" Historian Judy Nolte Temple writes that it \"seemed inevitable that the prettiest woman in the mining West would eventually meet the richest man.\"\n\nBaby Doe met Horace Tabor in a restaurant in Leadville one evening in 1880. She told him her story and that she had arrived in Leadville because of Jake Sandelowsky's generosity. Tabor gave her $5000 on the spot. Baby Doe then had a message, and $1000, delivered to Sandelowsky, in which she declared that she would not marry him. Instead, Tabor moved her to the Clarendon Hotel, next to the opera house and Sandelowsky's store, Sands, Pelton & Company. Sandelowsky later moved to Aspen, where he opened another store, married, and built a house.\n\nSome months later, Tabor moved Baby Doe to the Windsor Hotel in Denver. A newly constructed turreted building, meant to look like Windsor castle, the hotel had extremely lavish decorations such as mirrors made of diamond dust. Tabor had a gold-leafed bath-tub in his suite. Guests were wealthy, well-known and well-connected.\n\nBaby Doe claimed to love Tabor, and he loved her. He moved permanently out of his Denver home and asked his wife Augusta for a divorce. She refused him. He, in turn, refused to send her an invitation to attend the grand opening of Denver's Tabor Grand Opera House. He stopped giving his wife money; she sued him but failed; he again demanded a divorce. Baby Doe suggested that he seek a divorce in a different jurisdiction, and in 1882 a Durango, Colorado, judge granted them a divorce. However, the filing was irregular, and once Tabor realized that, he had the county clerk paste together two pages in the records to hide the action. Despite his existing marriage to Augusta, Horace Tabor and Elizabeth McCourt Doe married secretly in St. Louis, Missouri, in September 1882. At that time both were bigamists: his divorce was questionable and hers was not yet recorded.\n\nIn January 1883, Augusta sued Tabor again, and now he compensated her with real estate in Denver and stock in his mines. Tabor finally obtained a legal divorce at that time. That same month, the Colorado State Legislature appointed him to a 30-day term as United States Senator to fill a temporary vacancy because the sitting senator, Henry Teller, had been appointed a cabinet member. Baby Doe and Horace married publicly on 1 March 1883, just two months after Tabor and Augusta had divorced. He was 52 and she 28, and she claimed to be only 22. The marriage took place during Tabor's brief tenure as a US senator, at the Willard Hotel in Washington, DC. Baby Doe invited President Chester A. Arthur and other dignitaries who attended, as reported by the media at the time of her death, though a more recent biography claims many invitations were declined.\n\nShe planned a lavish wedding, going first to Oshkosh, making arrangements for her family to attend the event, and purchasing clothing and jewelry for them. Her mother was proud that her daughter was marrying a wealthy man, and Baby Doe herself was quite happy. At her wedding in Washington, she wore a white satin dress that cost $7,000 and the $90,000 necklace known as the \"Isabella\" necklace. Two days after the wedding, the priest who had performed the ceremony refused to sign the marriage license when he learned that both the bride and the groom had previously divorced and that Baby Doe was a Roman Catholic. Although Tabor's contemporaries had winked at or ignored his dalliance with Baby Doe, Tabor's divorce and quick remarriage created a scandal which prevented the couple from being accepted in polite society. Only a few months later, Horace's bid to be elected governor of Colorado ended in failure. Baby Doe's father died at around the same time.\n\nThe couple returned to Colorado, where they took up permanent residence in a Denver mansion. Baby Doe was snubbed by Denver socialites, from whom she received neither visits nor invitations. Although she did not join charities or clubs, as was customary during that period for wealthy women, she was generous with her money, donating funds to various charities, and providing free offices to the Colorado suffragette movement. To keep herself busy, she shopped, bought jewelry and clothing, had her hair done and continued with the hobby of scrapbooking she had taken up when living in Central City.\n\nOn July 13, 1884, she gave birth to the first of her and Tabor's two daughters, Elizabeth Bonduel Lily Tabor. The infant was christened in an extravagant and frilly outfit costing $15,000. Baby Doe was reportedly a good mother, staying at home with her daughter instead of accompanying Horace on his frequent trips to look after widespread business interests. Their second daughter, Rose Mary Echo Silver Dollar Tabor, was born on December 17, 1889. Both girls were attractive and well looked-after, and their mother doted on them. The second child was fondly called Silver or Silver Dollar, whom Baby Doe \"defiantly nursed ... as she rode through the streets in Denver in one of her carriages.\"\n\nA year after the birth of their second child, in 1890, the Sherman Silver Purchase Act was enacted, which brought to Colorado, and Colorado mine-owners, the hope that wildly fluctuating silver prices would stabilize. Profits from silver mining had diminished as the supply had declined and the extraction process and labor costs had increased. When a few of Horace's investments began to fail, he was forced to mortgage the Tabor theater in Denver and other real estate he had bought during the past decades.\n\nHorace Tabor lost his fortune in 1893 when the repeal of the Silver Act caused the Panic of 1893. Silver prices plummeted and fortunes in Colorado were instantly wiped out. As she had with her first husband, Baby Doe pitched in. Horace gave her the legal power to run his business concerns in Denver, and she made decisions for him during his absences. To raise money, she sold most of her jewelry, and when the couple had the power turned off in their mansion, she made a game of it for the children. Eventually, the mansion and its contents were sold. At age 65, to earn a living, Horace took a job as a common mineworker, while the family lived in a boarding house. From 1893 to 1898, the Tabors endured great poverty, although some friends lent them money. To save him from poverty, some political friends arranged his appointment as postmaster of Denver in 1898. The family at that time lived on his annual salary of $3700 per year and took up residence in a plain room at the Windsor Hotel. Horace's health soon gave out, and 15 months after his appointment to the position, he died.\n\nHis funeral was well attended, with perhaps as many as 10,000 there. On his deathbed he is said to have told Baby Doe to \"hold on the Matchless mine … it will make millions again when silver comes back.\" However, that story might not be true; by then, it appears they had mortgaged and/or lost the Matchless mine. At the time of her husband's death, Baby Doe was still an attractive woman in her mid-forties.\n\nAfter her husband's death, Baby Doe stayed in Denver for a period, according to her diaries and correspondence. Why she decided to leave Denver and the society there to make a return to Leadville, in the high mountains with its cold winters, is unknown, but it almost certainly had to do with the Matchless mine. For two years she unsuccessfully tried to find investors to bring the Matchless back into production. The family may have tried to regain ownership to the Matchless mine, but documentation is fragmented, and it is unclear to whom the mine belonged at that time. In 1901, one of her McCourt sisters may have attempted to buy the mine at a sheriff's sale, but again the fragmented documentation is murky about ownership. When Baby Doe moved with her girls back to Leadville, she claimed she would work the mine herself, despite its deteriorated condition. Temple writes that the mine's shafts were flooded and had not been in working condition for many years, and furthermore that Horace would have known this. To earn money, she took on menial domestic jobs. Unknown to her, her brother paid the grocer so that the three women had food. Eventually, in an attempt to keep the decrepit mine going and to raise funds, she reluctantly sold the \"Isabella necklace\" Tabor had given her, but during her lifetime she refused to sell his gold watch fob.\n\nHer older daughter, Lily, left her mother to live with Baby Doe's family in Wisconsin. Later, after her mother died, Lily denied being Baby Doe's daughter. Of the two daughters, Lily, born into wealth, seemed more affected by the fall into poverty. When in 1902, Baby Doe traveled with her daughters to Oshkosh to visit her relatives, Lily decided then to prolong her visit, to stay and provide care for her elderly grandmother. Later, Lily moved to Chicago, where in 1908 she married her first cousin, and soon after gave birth to Baby Doe's grandchild. In 1911, Baby Doe and Silver again visited relatives in Wisconsin, going on to visit Lily in Chicago. After such a prolonged absence, Lily claimed she barely knew Silver Dollar.\n\nAfter Lily's departure, Baby Doe and Silver Dollar moved into a cabin on the site of the Matchless mine. The living quarters were basic and inadequate for Colorado winters: \"All told, it was no larger than a medium sized room. Two windows had been cut into the flimsy weatherboards, but these had been nailed up\". The structure was a former tool shed located adjacent to the hoisthouse, described by a visitor in 1927 as \"crowded with very primitive furniture, decorated with religious pictures, and stacked high in newspapers.\" The cabin was isolated, located above Leadville in Little Strayhorse Gulch, and had an unimpeded view of Mount Elbert and Mount Massive.\n\nSilver Dollar also left Leadville, soon after she had turned to drink and had become sexually precocious. Worried, Baby Doe was happy to send her away to Denver. There, Silver Dollar wrote for the \"Denver Times\", sending part of her earnings to her mother on a weekly basis. She then attempted to become a novelist, while at the same time gaining a bad reputation in Denver for her drunken antics. Perhaps to escape Colorado, she moved to Chicago where again she tried her hand at writing. Eventually, after working as a dancer under various names, she became the mistress of a Chicago gangster. In 1925, Silver Dollar was found scalded to death under suspicious circumstances in her Chicago boarding house, where she had been living under the name \"Ruth Norman\". For the rest of her life, Baby Doe refused to believe the woman found as Ruth Norman had been her daughter, stating, \"I did not see the body they said was my little girl.\"\n\nAlone in the cabin outside Leadville, Baby Doe turned to religion. She considered her life of great wealth a period of vanity and created penances for herself. During the frigidly bitter Colorado high-country winters, she wound burlap sacks around her legs. With no money, she ate very little, living on stale bread and suet, and refused to accept charity. Baby Doe lived like this for 35 years. During these years she wrote incessantly. In diaries, letters, and scraps she called \"Dreams and Visions\", consisting of about 2000 fragments later found bundled in piles of paper in her cabin, she wrote entries such as: \"Nov. 26—1918 Papa Tabor's Birthday I owe my room rent & am in need of food and only enough bread for tonight & breakfast ... my shoes and stockings only 1 pair are in rags.\" An eyewitness described her in 1927 as dressed \"in corduroy trousers, mining boots, and a torn soiled blouse ... [with] a blue bandana tied around her head\", and went on to say that \"her eyes were very far apart and a gorgeous blue\".\n\nShe wandered the streets of Leadville, rags on her feet, wearing a cross, and came to be known as a madwoman. Some who had been acquainted with her earlier thought she deserved to suffer for having broken up the marriage between Horace and Augusta, and believed that she had been the cause of his ruin. At that time, Leadville had lost much of its boomtown population and was becoming a ghost-town. She often walked the empty streets at night, dressed in a mixture of women's and men's clothing, wearing trousers and mining boots. She protected the mine from strangers with a shot-gun, and \"she became a sad spectre of Baby Doe to old-timers; a spectacle to the young.\"\n\nIn the winter of 1935, after an unusually severe snowstorm, some neighbors noticed that no smoke was coming out of the chimney at the Matchless mine cabin. Investigating, they found Baby Doe dead, her body frozen on the floor. The \"Rocky Mountain News\" reported that a miner and friend, concerned at not seeing her for some days, broke into the cabin and found the body. The newspaper went on to compare her to another female Leadville resident, Molly Brown. For one last time, Baby Doe made the front pages of the papers. The interment had to be postponed because the ground in Leadville at that time of year was \"still frozen five feet deep\". While a gravesite was being prepared in Leadville—the ground had to be dynamited—wealthy Denverites raised money to have her body brought there. A funeral mass was held in Leadville, then her casket was sent by train to Denver. She was apparently 81 years old at the time of her death.\n\nHer remaining possessions were auctioned off to souvenir collectors for $700. Baby Doe Tabor is buried with her husband in Mount Olivet Cemetery in Wheat Ridge, Colorado.\n\nBaby Doe Tabor is a legend among the women of the mining West. She holds the reputation of being a great beauty, a home-wrecker, and in her later years, a madwoman. Judy Nolte Temple writes that Baby Doe's legend, and her sins, grew quickly in retelling, as evidenced by an exaggerated description of her death in an early biography: \"The formerly beautiful and glamorous Baby Doe Tabor ... was found dead on her cabin floor ... only partially clothed ...frozen into the shape of a cross\". She was rumored to be a gold-digger and a poor mother. Scavengers searched for non-existent treasure after her death, but Temple says the real treasure was found in Baby Doe's writing, which has taken decades to archive, analyze and study, and only now is beginning to reveal the inner life of the woman. Temple sees her as one in a long line of women who endured shunning and punishment for her beauty and for being disruptive to prevailing social norms. Temple speculates that Baby Doe's move to Leadville after Horace's death may have been self-shunning from Denver society.\n\nBaby Doe was portrayed in the Warner Brothers film \"Silver Dollar\", which premiered in Denver in 1932. \"Lily\", the fictionalized character of Baby Doe, was portrayed by actress Bebe Daniels; Edward G. Robinson played Yates Martin, a fictionalized Horace Tabor. Douglas Moore's opera \"The Ballad of Baby Doe\" premiered in Central City, Colorado, in 1956. In the New York premiere in 1958, Baby Doe was sung by Beverly Sills. In the 1970s, a string of western-themed \"Baby Doe's Matchless Mine\" restaurants was established in a number of US cities. Almost all are now closed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35709907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35709907", "title": "Berruchelus", "text": "Berruchelus\n\nBerruchelus is an extinct genus of paracryptodiran turtle from the Cenozoic of western Europe.\n"}
{"id": "8894516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8894516", "title": "BioCyc database collection", "text": "BioCyc database collection\n\nThe BioCyc database collection is an assortment of organism specific Pathway/ Genome Databases (PGDBs). They provide reference to genome and metabolic pathway information for thousands of organisms. As of December 2016, there are 9300 databases within BioCyc. SRI International, based in Menlo Park, California, maintains the BioCyc database family.\n\nCategories of Databases within BioCyc:\n\nBased on the manual curation done, BioCyc database family is divided into 3 tiers:\n\nTier 1: Databases which have received at least one year of literature based manual curation. Currently there are seven databases in Tier 1. Out of the seven, MetaCyc is a major database that contains almost 2500 metabolic pathways from many organisms. The other important Tier 1 database is HumanCyc which contains around 300 metabolic pathways found in humans. The remaining five databases include, EcoCyc (\"E. coli\"), AraCyc (\"Arabidopsis thaliana\"), YeastCyc (\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\"), LeishCyc (\"Leishmania major Friedlin\") and TrypanoCyc (\"Trypanosoma brucei\").\n\nTier 2: Databases that were computationally predicted but have received moderate manual curation (most with 1–4 months curation). Tier 2 Databases are available for manual curation by scientists who are interested in any particular organism. Tier 2 databases currently contain 43 different organism databases.\n\nTier 3: Databases that were computationally predicted by PathoLogic and received no manual curation. As with Tier 2, Tier 3 databases are also available for curation for interested scientists.\n\nSoftware Tools within BioCyc:\n\nThe BioCyc website contains a variety of software tools for searching, visualizing, comparing, and analyzing genome and pathway information. It includes a genome browser, and browsers for metabolic and regulatory networks. The website also includes tools for painting large-scale (\"omics\") datasets onto metabolic and regulatory networks, and onto the genome.\n\nUse of BioCyc Database Collection in Research:\n\nSince BioCyc Database family comprises a long list of organism specific databases and also data at different systems level in a living system, the usage in research has been in a wide variety of context. Here, two studies are highlighted which show two different varieties of uses, one on a genome scale and other on identifying specific SNPs (Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms) within a genome.\n\nAlgaGEM\n\nAlgaGEM is a genome scale metabolic network model for a compartmentalized algae cell developed by Gomes de Oliveira Dal’Molin et al. based on Chlamydomonas reinhardtii genome. It has 866 unique ORFs, 1862 metabolites, 2499 gene-enzyme-reaction-association entries, and 1725 unique reactions. One of the Pathway databases used for reconstruction is MetaCyc.\n\nSNPs\n\nThe study by Shimul Chowdhury et al. showed association differed between maternal SNPs and metabolites involved in homocysteine, folate, and transsulfuration pathways in cases with Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs) as opposed to controls. The study used HumanCyc to select candidate genes and SNPs.\n"}
{"id": "3954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3954", "title": "Biochemistry", "text": "Biochemistry\n\nBiochemistry, sometimes called biological chemistry, is the study of chemical processes within and relating to living organisms. Biochemical processes give rise to the complexity of life. \n\nA sub-discipline of both biology and chemistry, biochemistry can be divided in three fields; molecular genetics, protein science and metabolism. Over the last decades of the 20th century, biochemistry has through these three disciplines become successful at explaining living processes. Almost all areas of the life sciences are being uncovered and developed by biochemical methodology and research. Biochemistry focuses on understanding how biological molecules give rise to the processes that occur within living cells and between cells, which in turn relates greatly to the study and understanding of tissues, organs, and organism structure and function.\n\nBiochemistry is closely related to molecular biology, the study of the molecular mechanisms by which genetic information encoded in DNA is able to result in the processes of life. \n\nMuch of biochemistry deals with the structures, functions and interactions of biological macromolecules, such as proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids, which provide the structure of cells and perform many of the functions associated with life. The chemistry of the cell also depends on the reactions of smaller molecules and ions. These can be inorganic, for example water and metal ions, or organic, for example the amino acids, which are used to synthesize proteins. The mechanisms by which cells harness energy from their environment via chemical reactions are known as metabolism. The findings of biochemistry are applied primarily in medicine, nutrition, and agriculture. In medicine, biochemists investigate the causes and cures of diseases. In nutrition, they study how to maintain health wellness and study the effects of nutritional deficiencies. In agriculture, biochemists investigate soil and fertilizers, and try to discover ways to improve crop cultivation, crop storage and pest control.\n\nAt its broadest definition, biochemistry can be seen as a study of the components and composition of living things and how they come together to become life, in this sense the history of biochemistry may therefore go back as far as the ancient Greeks. However, biochemistry as a specific scientific discipline has its beginning sometime in the 19th century, or a little earlier, depending on which aspect of biochemistry is being focused on. Some argued that the beginning of biochemistry may have been the discovery of the first enzyme, diastase (today called amylase), in 1833 by Anselme Payen, while others considered Eduard Buchner's first demonstration of a complex biochemical process alcoholic fermentation in cell-free extracts in 1897 to be the birth of biochemistry. Some might also point as its beginning to the influential 1842 work by Justus von Liebig, \"Animal chemistry, or, Organic chemistry in its applications to physiology and pathology\", which presented a chemical theory of metabolism, or even earlier to the 18th century studies on fermentation and respiration by Antoine Lavoisier. Many other pioneers in the field who helped to uncover the layers of complexity of biochemistry have been proclaimed founders of modern biochemistry, for example Emil Fischer for his work on the chemistry of proteins, and F. Gowland Hopkins on enzymes and the dynamic nature of biochemistry.\n\nThe term \"biochemistry\" itself is derived from a combination of biology and chemistry. In 1877, Felix Hoppe-Seyler used the term (\"biochemie\" in German) as a synonym for physiological chemistry in the foreword to the first issue of \"Zeitschrift für Physiologische Chemie\" (Journal of Physiological Chemistry) where he argued for the setting up of institutes dedicated to this field of study. The German chemist Carl Neuberg however is often cited to have coined the word in 1903, while some credited it to Franz Hofmeister.\nIt was once generally believed that life and its materials had some essential property or substance (often referred to as the \"vital principle\") distinct from any found in non-living matter, and it was thought that only living beings could produce the molecules of life. Then, in 1828, Friedrich Wöhler published a paper on the synthesis of urea, proving that organic compounds can be created artificially. Since then, biochemistry has advanced, especially since the mid-20th century, with the development of new techniques such as chromatography, X-ray diffraction, dual polarisation interferometry, NMR spectroscopy, radioisotopic labeling, electron microscopy, and molecular dynamics simulations. These techniques allowed for the discovery and detailed analysis of many molecules and metabolic pathways of the cell, such as glycolysis and the Krebs cycle (citric acid cycle), and led to an understanding of biochemistry on a molecular level.philip Randle is well-known for his discovery in diabetes research is possibly the glucose-fatty acid cycle in 1963.He confirmed that fatty acids reduce oxidation of sugar by the muscle. High fat oxidation was responsible for the insulin resistance.\n\nAnother significant historic event in biochemistry is the discovery of the gene, and its role in the transfer of information in the cell. This part of biochemistry is often called molecular biology. In the 1950s, James D. Watson, Francis Crick, Rosalind Franklin, and Maurice Wilkins were instrumental in solving DNA structure and suggesting its relationship with genetic transfer of information. In 1958, George Beadle and Edward Tatum received the Nobel Prize for work in fungi showing that one gene produces one enzyme. In 1988, Colin Pitchfork was the first person convicted of murder with DNA evidence, which led to the growth of forensic science. More recently, Andrew Z. Fire and Craig C. Mello received the 2006 Nobel Prize for discovering the role of RNA interference (RNAi), in the silencing of gene expression.\n\nAround two dozen of the 92 naturally occurring chemical elements are essential to various kinds of biological life. Most rare elements on Earth are not needed by life (exceptions being selenium and iodine), while a few common ones (aluminum and titanium) are not used. Most organisms share element needs, but there are a few differences between plants and animals. For example, ocean algae use bromine, but land plants and animals seem to need none. All animals require sodium, but some plants do not. Plants need boron and silicon, but animals may not (or may need ultra-small amounts).\n\nJust six elements—carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, calcium, and phosphorus—make up almost 99% of the mass of living cells, including those in the human body (see composition of the human body for a complete list). In addition to the six major elements that compose most of the human body, humans require smaller amounts of possibly 18 more.\n\nThe four main classes of molecules in biochemistry (often called biomolecules) are carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. Many biological molecules are polymers: in this terminology, monomers are relatively small micromolecules that are linked together to create large macromolecules known as polymers. When monomers are linked together to synthesize a biological polymer, they undergo a process called dehydration synthesis. Different macromolecules can assemble in larger complexes, often needed for biological activity.\n\nTwo of the main functions of carbohydrates are energy storage and providing structure. Sugars are carbohydrates, but not all carbohydrates are sugars. There are more carbohydrates on Earth than any other known type of biomolecule; they are used to store energy and genetic information, as well as play important roles in cell to cell interactions and communications.\n\nThe simplest type of carbohydrate is a monosaccharide, which among other properties contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, mostly in a ratio of 1:2:1 (generalized formula CHO, where \"n\" is at least 3). Glucose (CHO) is one of the most important carbohydrates; others include fructose (CHO), the sugar commonly associated with the sweet taste of fruits, and deoxyribose (CHO). A monosaccharide can switch between acyclic (open-chain) form and a cyclic form. The open-chain form can be turned into a ring of carbon atoms bridged by an oxygen atom created from the carbonyl group of one end and the hydroxyl group of another. The cyclic molecule has an hemiacetal or hemiketal group, depending on whether the linear form was an aldose or a ketose.\n\nIn these cyclic forms, the ring usually has 5 or 6 atoms. These forms are called furanoses and pyranoses, respectively — by analogy with furan and pyran, the simplest compounds with the same carbon-oxygen ring (although they lack the double bonds of these two molecules). For example, the aldohexose glucose may form a hemiacetal linkage between the hydroxyl on carbon 1 and the oxygen on carbon 4, yielding a molecule with a 5-membered ring, called glucofuranose. The same reaction can take place between carbons 1 and 5 to form a molecule with a 6-membered ring, called glucopyranose. Cyclic forms with a 7-atom ring called heptoses are rare.\n\nTwo monosaccharides can be joined together by a glycosidic or ether bond into a \"disaccharide\" through a dehydration reaction during which a molecule of water is released. The reverse reaction in which the glycosidic bond of a disaccharide is broken into two monosaccharides is termed \"hydrolysis\". The best-known disaccharide is sucrose or ordinary sugar, which consists of a glucose molecule and a fructose molecule joined together. Another important disaccharide is lactose found in milk, consisting of a glucose molecule and a galactose molecule. Lactose may be hydrolysed by lactase, and deficiency in this enzyme results in lactose intolerance.\n\nWhen a few (around three to six) monosaccharides are joined, it is called an \"oligosaccharide\" (\"oligo-\" meaning \"few\"). These molecules tend to be used as markers and signals, as well as having some other uses. Many monosaccharides joined together make a polysaccharide. They can be joined together in one long linear chain, or they may be branched. Two of the most common polysaccharides are cellulose and glycogen, both consisting of repeating glucose monomers. Examples are \"cellulose\" which is an important structural component of plant's cell walls, and \"glycogen\", used as a form of energy storage in animals.\n\nSugar can be characterized by having reducing or non-reducing ends. A reducing end of a carbohydrate is a carbon atom that can be in equilibrium with the open-chain aldehyde (aldose) or keto form (ketose). If the joining of monomers takes place at such a carbon atom, the free hydroxy group of the pyranose or furanose form is exchanged with an OH-side-chain of another sugar, yielding a full acetal. This prevents opening of the chain to the aldehyde or keto form and renders the modified residue non-reducing. Lactose contains a reducing end at its glucose moiety, whereas the galactose moiety forms a full acetal with the C4-OH group of glucose. Saccharose does not have a reducing end because of full acetal formation between the aldehyde carbon of glucose (C1) and the keto carbon of fructose (C2).\n\nLipids comprises a diverse range of molecules and to some extent is a catchall for relatively water-insoluble or nonpolar compounds of biological origin, including waxes, fatty acids, fatty-acid derived phospholipids, sphingolipids, glycolipids, and terpenoids (e.g., retinoids and steroids). Some lipids are linear aliphatic molecules, while others have ring structures. Some are aromatic, while others are not. Some are flexible, while others are rigid.\n\nLipids are usually made from one molecule of glycerol combined with other molecules. In triglycerides, the main group of bulk lipids, there is one molecule of glycerol and three fatty acids. Fatty acids are considered the monomer in that case, and may be saturated (no double bonds in the carbon chain) or unsaturated (one or more double bonds in the carbon chain).\n\nMost lipids have some polar character in addition to being largely nonpolar. In general, the bulk of their structure is nonpolar or hydrophobic (\"water-fearing\"), meaning that it does not interact well with polar solvents like water. Another part of their structure is polar or hydrophilic (\"water-loving\") and will tend to associate with polar solvents like water. This makes them amphiphilic molecules (having both hydrophobic and hydrophilic portions). In the case of cholesterol, the polar group is a mere -OH (hydroxyl or alcohol). In the case of phospholipids, the polar groups are considerably larger and more polar, as described below.\n\nLipids are an integral part of our daily diet. Most oils and milk products that we use for cooking and eating like butter, cheese, ghee etc., are composed of fats. Vegetable oils are rich in various polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). Lipid-containing foods undergo digestion within the body and are broken into fatty acids and glycerol, which are the final degradation products of fats and lipids. Lipids, especially phospholipids, are also used in various pharmaceutical products, either as co-solubilisers (e.g., in parenteral infusions) or else as drug carrier components (e.g., in a liposome or transfersome).\n\nProteins are very large molecules – macro-biopolymers – made from monomers called amino acids. An amino acid consists of a carbon atom attached to an amino group, —NH, a carboxylic acid group, —COOH (although these exist as —NH and —COO under physiologic conditions), a simple hydrogen atom, and a side chain commonly denoted as \"—R\". The side chain \"R\" is different for each amino acid of which there are 20 standard ones. It is this \"R\" group that made each amino acid different, and the properties of the side-chains greatly influence the overall three-dimensional conformation of a protein. Some amino acids have functions by themselves or in a modified form; for instance, glutamate functions as an important neurotransmitter. Amino acids can be joined via a peptide bond. In this dehydration synthesis, a water molecule is removed and the peptide bond connects the nitrogen of one amino acid's amino group to the carbon of the other's carboxylic acid group. The resulting molecule is called a \"dipeptide\", and short stretches of amino acids (usually, fewer than thirty) are called \"peptides\" or polypeptides. Longer stretches merit the title \"proteins\". As an example, the important blood serum protein albumin contains 585 amino acid residues.\n\nProteins can have structural and/or functional roles. For instance, movements of the proteins actin and myosin ultimately are responsible for the contraction of skeletal muscle. One property many proteins have is that they specifically bind to a certain molecule or class of molecules—they may be \"extremely\" selective in what they bind. Antibodies are an example of proteins that attach to one specific type of molecule. Antibodies are composed of heavy and light chains. Two heavy chains would be linked to two light chains through disulfide linkages between their amino acids. Antibodies are specific through variation based on differences in the N-terminal domain.\n\nIn fact, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), which uses antibodies, is one of the most sensitive tests modern medicine uses to detect various biomolecules. Probably the most important proteins, however, are the enzymes. Virtually every reaction in a living cell requires an enzyme to lower the activation energy of the reaction. These molecules recognize specific reactant molecules called \"substrates\"; they then catalyze the reaction between them. By lowering the activation energy, the enzyme speeds up that reaction by a rate of 10 or more; a reaction that would normally take over 3,000 years to complete spontaneously might take less than a second with an enzyme. The enzyme itself is not used up in the process, and is free to catalyze the same reaction with a new set of substrates. Using various modifiers, the activity of the enzyme can be regulated, enabling control of the biochemistry of the cell as a whole.\n\nThe structure of proteins is traditionally described in a hierarchy of four levels. The primary structure of a protein consists of its linear sequence of amino acids; for instance, \"alanine-glycine-tryptophan-serine-glutamate-asparagine-glycine-lysine-…\". Secondary structure is concerned with local morphology (morphology being the study of structure). Some combinations of amino acids will tend to curl up in a coil called an α-helix or into a sheet called a β-sheet; some α-helixes can be seen in the hemoglobin schematic above. Tertiary structure is the entire three-dimensional shape of the protein. This shape is determined by the sequence of amino acids. In fact, a single change can change the entire structure. The alpha chain of hemoglobin contains 146 amino acid residues; substitution of the glutamate residue at position 6 with a valine residue changes the behavior of hemoglobin so much that it results in sickle-cell disease. Finally, quaternary structure is concerned with the structure of a protein with multiple peptide subunits, like hemoglobin with its four subunits. Not all proteins have more than one subunit.\n\nIngested proteins are usually broken up into single amino acids or dipeptides in the small intestine, and then absorbed. They can then be joined to make new proteins. Intermediate products of glycolysis, the citric acid cycle, and the pentose phosphate pathway can be used to make all twenty amino acids, and most bacteria and plants possess all the necessary enzymes to synthesize them. Humans and other mammals, however, can synthesize only half of them. They cannot synthesize isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine. These are the essential amino acids, since it is essential to ingest them. Mammals do possess the enzymes to synthesize alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, and tyrosine, the nonessential amino acids. While they can synthesize arginine and histidine, they cannot produce it in sufficient amounts for young, growing animals, and so these are often considered essential amino acids.\n\nIf the amino group is removed from an amino acid, it leaves behind a carbon skeleton called an α-keto acid. Enzymes called transaminases can easily transfer the amino group from one amino acid (making it an α-keto acid) to another α-keto acid (making it an amino acid). This is important in the biosynthesis of amino acids, as for many of the pathways, intermediates from other biochemical pathways are converted to the α-keto acid skeleton, and then an amino group is added, often via transamination. The amino acids may then be linked together to make a protein.\n\nA similar process is used to break down proteins. It is first hydrolyzed into its component amino acids. Free ammonia (NH), existing as the ammonium ion (NH) in blood, is toxic to life forms. A suitable method for excreting it must therefore exist. Different tactics have evolved in different animals, depending on the animals' needs. Unicellular organisms simply release the ammonia into the environment. Likewise, bony fish can release the ammonia into the water where it is quickly diluted. In general, mammals convert the ammonia into urea, via the urea cycle.\n\nIn order to determine whether two proteins are related, or in other words to decide whether they are homologous or not, scientists use sequence-comparison methods. Methods like sequence alignments and structural alignments are powerful tools that help scientists identify homologies between related molecules. The relevance of finding homologies among proteins goes beyond forming an evolutionary pattern of protein families. By finding how similar two protein sequences are, we acquire knowledge about their structure and therefore their function.\n\nNucleic acids, so called because of their prevalence in cellular nuclei, is the generic name of the family of biopolymers. They are complex, high-molecular-weight biochemical macromolecules that can convey genetic information in all living cells and viruses. The monomers are called nucleotides, and each consists of three components: a nitrogenous heterocyclic base (either a purine or a pyrimidine), a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group.\n\nThe most common nucleic acids are deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). The phosphate group and the sugar of each nucleotide bond with each other to form the backbone of the nucleic acid, while the sequence of nitrogenous bases stores the information. The most common nitrogenous bases are adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine, and uracil. The nitrogenous bases of each strand of a nucleic acid will form hydrogen bonds with certain other nitrogenous bases in a complementary strand of nucleic acid (similar to a zipper). Adenine binds with thymine and uracil; thymine binds only with adenine; and cytosine and guanine can bind only with one another.\n\nAside from the genetic material of the cell, nucleic acids often play a role as second messengers, as well as forming the base molecule for adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the primary energy-carrier molecule found in all living organisms. Also, the nitrogenous bases possible in the two nucleic acids are different: adenine, cytosine, and guanine occur in both RNA and DNA, while thymine occurs only in DNA and uracil occurs in RNA.\n\nGlucose is an energy source in most life forms. For instance, polysaccharides are broken down into their monomers (glycogen phosphorylase removes glucose residues from glycogen). Disaccharides like lactose or sucrose are cleaved into their two component monosaccharides.\n\nGlucose is mainly metabolized by a very important ten-step pathway called glycolysis, the net result of which is to break down one molecule of glucose into two molecules of pyruvate. This also produces a net two molecules of ATP, the energy currency of cells, along with two reducing equivalents of converting NAD (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide: oxidised form) to NADH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide: reduced form). This does not require oxygen; if no oxygen is available (or the cell cannot use oxygen), the NAD is restored by converting the pyruvate to lactate (lactic acid) (e.g., in humans) or to ethanol plus carbon dioxide (e.g., in yeast). Other monosaccharides like galactose and fructose can be converted into intermediates of the glycolytic pathway.\n\nIn aerobic cells with sufficient oxygen, as in most human cells, the pyruvate is further metabolized. It is irreversibly converted to acetyl-CoA, giving off one carbon atom as the waste product carbon dioxide, generating another reducing equivalent as NADH. The two molecules acetyl-CoA (from one molecule of glucose) then enter the citric acid cycle, producing two more molecules of ATP, six more NADH molecules and two reduced (ubi)quinones (via FADH as enzyme-bound cofactor), and releasing the remaining carbon atoms as carbon dioxide. The produced NADH and quinol molecules then feed into the enzyme complexes of the respiratory chain, an electron transport system transferring the electrons ultimately to oxygen and conserving the released energy in the form of a proton gradient over a membrane (inner mitochondrial membrane in eukaryotes). Thus, oxygen is reduced to water and the original electron acceptors NAD and quinone are regenerated. This is why humans breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. The energy released from transferring the electrons from high-energy states in NADH and quinol is conserved first as proton gradient and converted to ATP via ATP synthase. This generates an additional \"28\" molecules of ATP (24 from the 8 NADH + 4 from the 2 quinols), totaling to 32 molecules of ATP conserved per degraded glucose (two from glycolysis + two from the citrate cycle). It is clear that using oxygen to completely oxidize glucose provides an organism with far more energy than any oxygen-independent metabolic feature, and this is thought to be the reason why complex life appeared only after Earth's atmosphere accumulated large amounts of oxygen.\n\nIn vertebrates, vigorously contracting skeletal muscles (during weightlifting or sprinting, for example) do not receive enough oxygen to meet the energy demand, and so they shift to anaerobic metabolism, converting glucose to lactate. The liver regenerates the glucose, using a process called gluconeogenesis. This process is not quite the opposite of glycolysis, and actually requires three times the amount of energy gained from glycolysis (six molecules of ATP are used, compared to the two gained in glycolysis). Analogous to the above reactions, the glucose produced can then undergo glycolysis in tissues that need energy, be stored as glycogen (or starch in plants), or be converted to other monosaccharides or joined into di- or oligosaccharides. The combined pathways of glycolysis during exercise, lactate's crossing via the bloodstream to the liver, subsequent gluconeogenesis and release of glucose into the bloodstream is called the Cori cycle.\n\nResearchers in biochemistry use specific techniques native to biochemistry, but increasingly combine these with techniques and ideas developed in the fields of genetics, molecular biology and biophysics. There has never been a hard-line among these disciplines in terms of content and technique. Today, the terms \"molecular biology\" and \"biochemistry\" are nearly interchangeable. The following figure is a schematic that depicts one possible view of the relationship between the fields:\n\n\n\na. Fructose is not the only sugar found in fruits. Glucose and sucrose are also found in varying quantities in various fruits, and indeed sometimes exceed the fructose present. For example, 32% of the edible portion of date is glucose, compared with 23.70% fructose and 8.20% sucrose. However, peaches contain more sucrose (6.66%) than they do fructose (0.93%) or glucose (1.47%).\n\n\nPoirot, Marc; Soules, Regis; Mallinger, Arnaud; Dalenc, Florence; Silvente-Poirot, Sandrine. Biochimie. Oct2018, Vol. 153, p139-149\nAfify, Heba M. American Journal of Biomedical Sciences. 2016, Vol. 8 Issue 3, p200-207\n"}
{"id": "39198919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39198919", "title": "Cancer systems biology", "text": "Cancer systems biology\n\nCancer systems biology encompasses the application of systems biology approaches to cancer research, in order to study the disease as a complex adaptive system with emerging properties at multiple biological scales. Cancer systems biology represents the application of systems biology approaches to the analysis of how the intracellular networks of normal cells are perturbed during carcinogenesis to develop effective predictive models that can assist scientists and clinicians in the validations of new therapies and drugs. Tumours are characterized by genomic and epigenetic instability that alters the functions of many different molecules and networks in a single cell as well as altering the interactions with the local environment. Cancer systems biology approaches, therefore, are based on the use of computational and mathematical methods to decipher the complexity in tumorigenesis as well as cancer heterogeneity. \nCancer systems biology encompasses concrete applications of systems biology approaches to cancer research, notably (a) the need for better methods to distill insights from large-scale networks, (b) the importance of integrating multiple data types in constructing more realistic models, (c) challenges in translating insights about tumorigenic mechanisms into therapeutic interventions, and (d) the role of the tumor microenvironment, at the physical, cellular, and molecular levels. Cancer systems biology therefore adopts a holistic view of cancer aimed at integrating its many biological scales, including genetics, signaling networks, epigenetics, cellular behavior, histology, (pre)clinical manifestations and epidemiology. Ultimately, cancer properties at one scale, e.g., histology, are explained by properties at a scale below, e.g., cell behavior.\n\nCancer systems biology merges traditional basic and clinical cancer research with “exact” sciences, such as applied mathematics, engineering, and physics. It incorporates a spectrum of “omics” technologies (genomics, proteomics, epigenomics, etc.) and molecular imaging, to generate computational algorithms and quantitative models that shed light on mechanisms underlying the cancer process and predict response to intervention. Application of cancer systems biology include but are not limited to- elucidating critical cellular and molecular networks underlying cancer risk,initiation and progression; thereby promoting an alternative viewpoint to the traditional reductionist approach which has typically focused on characterizing single molecular aberrations.\n\nCancer systems biology finds its roots in a number of events and realizations in biomedical research, as well as in technological advances. Historically cancer was identified, understood, and treated as a monolithic disease. It was seen as a “foreign” component that grew as a homogenous mass, and was to be best treated by excision. Besides the continued impact of surgical intervention, this simplistic view of cancer has drastically evolved. In parallel with the exploits of molecular biology, cancer research focused on the identification of critical oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes in the etiology of cancer. These breakthroughs revolutionized our understanding of molecular events driving cancer progression. Targeted therapy may be considered the current pinnacle of advances spawned by such insights.\n\nDespite these advances, many unresolved challenges remain, including the dearth of new treatment avenues for many cancer types, or the unexplained treatment failures and inevitable relapse in cancer types where targeted treatment exists. Such mismatch between clinical results and the massive amounts of data acquired by omics technology highlights the existence of basic gaps in our knowledge of cancer fundamentals. Cancer Systems Biology is steadily improving our ability to organize information on cancer, in order to fill these gaps. Key developments include:\n\n\nThe practice of Cancer Systems Biology requires close physical integration between scientists with diverse backgrounds. Critical large-scale efforts are also underway to train a new workforce fluent in both the languages of biology and applied mathematics. At the translational level, Cancer Systems Biology should engender precision medicine application to cancer treatment.\n\nHigh-throughput technologies enable comprehensive genomic analyses of mutations, rearrangements, copy number variations, and methylation at the cellular and tissue levels, as well as robust analysis of RNA and microRNA expression data, protein levels and metabolite levels.\n\nList of High-Throughput Technologies and the Data they generated, with representative databases and publications\nThe computational approaches used in cancer systems biology include new mathematical and computational algorithms that reflect the dynamic interplay between experimental biology and the quantitative sciences. A cancer systems biology approach can be applied at different levels, from an individual cell to a tissue, a patient with a primary tumour and possible metastases, or to any combination of these situations. This approach can integrate the molecular characteristics of tumours at different levels (DNA, RNA, protein, epigenetic, imaging) and different intervals (seconds versus days) with multidisciplinary analysis. One of the major challenges to its success, besides the challenge posed by the heterogeneity of cancer per se, resides in acquiring high-quality data that describe clinical characteristics, pathology, treatment, and outcomes and integrating the data into robust predictive models \n\nMathematical modeling can provide useful context for the rational design, validation and prioritization of novel cancer drug targets and their combinations. Network-based modeling and multi-scale modeling have begun to show promise in facilitating the process of effective cancer drug discovery. Using a systems network modeling approach, Schoerberl et al. identified a previously unknown, complementary and potentially superior mechanism of inhibiting the ErbB receptor signaling network. ErbB3 was found to be the most sensitive node, leading to Akt activation; Akt regulates many biological processes, such as proliferation, apoptosis and growth, which are all relevant to tumor progression. This target driven modelling has paved way for first of its kind clinical trials. Bekkal et al. presented a nonlinear model of the dynamics of a cell population divided into proliferative and quiescent compartments. The proliferative phase represents the complete cell cycle (G (1)-S-G (2)-M) of a population committed to divide at its end. The asymptotic behavior of solutions of the nonlinear model is analysed in two cases, exhibiting tissue homeostasis or tumor exponential growth. The model is simulated and its analytic predictions are confirmed numerically. \nFurthermore, advances in hardware and software have enabled the realization of clinically feasible, quantitative multimodality imaging of tissue pathophysiology. Earlier efforts relating to multimodality imaging of cancer have focused on the integration of anatomical and functional characteristics, such as PET-CT and single-photon emission CT (SPECT-CT), whereas more-recent advances and applications have involved the integration of multiple quantitative, functional measurements (for example, multiple PET tracers, varied MRI contrast mechanisms, and PET-MRI), thereby providing a more-comprehensive characterization of the tumour phenotype. The enormous amount of complementary quantitative data generated by such studies is beginning to offer unique insights into opportunities to optimize care for individual patients. Although important technical optimization and improved biological interpretation of multimodality imaging findings are needed, this approach can already be applied informatively in clinical trials of cancer therapeutics using existing tools.\n\nIn 2004, the US National Cancer Institute launched a program effort on Integrative Cancer Systems Biology to establish Centers for Cancer Systems Biology that focus on the analysis of cancer as a complex biological system. The integration of experimental biology with mathematical modeling will result in new insights in the biology and new approaches to the management of cancer. The program brings clinical and basic cancer researchers together with researchers from mathematics, physics, engineering, information technology, imaging sciences, and computer science to work on unraveling fundamental questions in the biology of cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "62063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62063", "title": "Cher Ami", "text": "Cher Ami\n\nCher Ami (French for \"dear friend\", in the masculine) was a female homing pigeon who had been donated by the pigeon fanciers of Britain for use by the U.S. Army Signal Corps in France during World War I and had been trained by American pigeoners. She is most famous for delivering a message from an encircled battalion despite serious injuries during the Meuse-Argonne Offensive, October 1918.\n\nOn October 3, 1918, Major Charles White Whittlesey and more than 194 men were trapped in a small depression on the side of the hill behind enemy lines without food or ammunition. They were also beginning to receive friendly fire from allied troops who did not know their location. Surrounded by the Germans, many were killed and wounded in the first day and by the second day, merely 194 men were still alive and not captured. Because his runners were consistently intercepted or killed by the Germans, Whittlesey began dispatching messages by pigeon. The pigeon carrying the first message, \"Many wounded. We cannot evacuate.\" was shot down. A second bird was sent with the message, \"Men are suffering. Can support be sent?\" That pigeon also was shot down. After another pigeon provided incorrect coordinates to headquarters, resulting in a barrage inadvertently targeting the battalion, \"Cher Ami\" was dispatched with a note, written on onion paper, in a canister on her left leg,\n\nAs Cher Ami tried to fly back home, the Germans saw her rising out of the brush and opened fire. After several seconds, she was shot down but managed to take flight again. She arrived back at her loft at division headquarters 25 miles (40 km) to the rear in just 25 minutes, helping to save the lives of the 194 survivors. She had been shot through the breast, blinded in one eye, and had a leg hanging only by a tendon.\n\nCher Ami became the hero of the 77th Infantry Division. Army medics worked to save her life. They were unable to save her leg, so they carved a small wooden one for her. When she recovered enough to travel, the now one-legged bird was put on a boat to the United States, with General John J. Pershing seeing her off.\n\nThe pigeon was awarded the Croix de Guerre Medal with a palm Oak Leaf Cluster for her heroic service in delivering 12 important messages in Verdun. She died at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, on June 13, 1919 from the wounds she received in battle and was later inducted into the Racing Pigeon Hall of Fame in 1931. She also received a gold medal from the Organized Bodies of American Racing Pigeon Fanciers in recognition of her service during World War I.\n\nThe man responsible for training and caring for the pigeon in the signal corps, Enoch Clifford Swain, was given an award for his service.\n\nTo American school children of the 1920s and 1930s, Cher Ami was as well known as any human World War I heroes. Cher Ami's body was later mounted by a taxidermist and enshrined in the Smithsonian Institution. It is currently on display with that of Sergeant Stubby in the National Museum of American History's \"Price of Freedom\" exhibit.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42368614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42368614", "title": "Convolutional Deep Belief Networks", "text": "Convolutional Deep Belief Networks\n\nIn computer science, Convolutional Deep Belief Network (CDBN) is a type of deep artificial neural network that is composed of multiple layers of convolutional restricted Boltzmann machines stacked together. Alternatively, it is a hierarchical generative model for deep learning, which is highly effective in the tasks of image processing and object recognition, though it has been used in other domains too. The salient features of the model include the fact that it scales well to high-dimensional images and is translation-invariant.\n\nCDBNs use the technique of probabilistic max-pooling to reduce the dimensions in higher layers in the network. Training of the network involves a pre-training stage accomplished in a greedy layer-wise manner, similar to other deep belief networks. Depending on whether the network is to be used for discrimination or generative tasks, it is then \"fine tuned\" or trained with either back-propagation or the up-down algorithm (contrastive-divergence), respectively.\n"}
{"id": "31573590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31573590", "title": "Death and state funeral of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk", "text": "Death and state funeral of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk\n\nMustafa Kemal Atatürk, first President of the Republic of Turkey, died at the Dolmabahçe Palace, his official residence in Istanbul, on 10 November 1938. His state funeral was held in the capital city of Ankara on 21 November, and was attended by dignitaries from seventeen nations. His body remained at the Ethnography Museum of Ankara until 10 November 1953, the fifteenth anniversary of his death, when his remains were carried to his final resting place at Anıtkabir.\n\nDuring 1937, indications of Atatürk's worsening health started to appear. In the early 1938, while he was on a trip to Yalova, he suffered from a serious illness. After a short period of treatment in Yalova, an apparent improvement in his health was observed, but his condition again worsened following his journeys first to Ankara, and then to Mersin and Adana. Upon his return to Ankara in May, he was recommended to go to İstanbul for treatment, where he was diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver.\n\nDuring his stay in İstanbul, he made an effort to keep up with his regular lifestyle for a while, heading the Council of Ministers meeting, working on the Hatay issue, and hosting King Carol II of Romania during his visit in June. He stayed on board his newly arrived yacht, \"Savarona\", until the end of July, after which his health again worsened and then he moved to a room arranged for him at the Dolmabahçe Palace.\n\nAtatürk's death certificate, signed by nine medical professors, officially declared that the founder and President of the Turkish Republic had died at 09:05 local time on November 10, 1938 in the state residence of Dolmabahçe Palace in Istanbul from his long-lasting illness.\n\nPreparations started for the state funeral of Atatürk organized by the leading officials. However, no decision was made yet for the final resting place. The next day on November 11, the parliament in Ankara convened and elected İsmet İnönü as the new president.\n\nNo religious funeral service was at first foreseen. However, his sister Makbule Atadan, who stayed at the palace for several days, insisted on a religious funeral service to be held in a mosque, as is normally the case, before her brother's body was transferred to Ankara. She was subsequently convinced by the President of Religious Affairs Rıfat Börekçi that an Islamic funeral service may also be held outside of a mosque.\n\nThe funeral prayer was conducted at 08:10 local time in the morning of November 19 by Prof. Şerafettin Yaltkaya, Director of the Institute for Islamic Studies, in Turkish, not in the traditional Arabic. During the religious ceremony, photographs were not allowed. The funeral prayer was attended by people who were close to him, some generals, religious officials, palace servants and Hafız Major Yaşar Okur, who served with Atatürk for fifteen years.\n\nProf. Mehmet Kâmil Berk, one of the signers of the death certificate, bound Atatürk's jaw with a silk handkerchief and his big toes with a bandage, as per Islamic rites. Since the burial would be delayed, his body was embalmed by pathologist Prof. Lütfi Aksu, who came for this purpose from the Gülhane Military Medical Academy (GMMA) in Ankara. His body then lay in repose while his sister Makbule Atadan, high-ranking government officials and officers, and other influential people came at specified times to pay their respects.\n\nAtatürk's body was put in a zinc-lined mahogany casket of walnut wood. The flag-draped casket was placed on November 16 in the reception hall of the palace on a catafalque. It was flanked by three high torches at each side symbolizing the six pillars of Kemalist ideology and crowned by wreaths for lying in state.\n\nFor three days, thousands of mourning people paid their respects passing by the catafalque, where an honor guard of officers stood vigil.\n\nFollowing the funeral prayer, Atatürk's casket was taken out the Dolmabahçe Palace, placed on a horse-drawn caisson and brought in front of a cortege to Gülhane Park. From Seraglio Point, a torpedo boat forwarded it to the battlecruiser . Turkish navy ships and foreign vessels escorted TCG \"Yavûz \" with Atatürk's casket aboard until off Büyükada. \"Yavûz\" carried then Atatürk's body to Izmit.\n\nSubsequently, Atatürk's casket was transferred to a funeral train in Izmit that brought it to Ankara arriving the next day on November 20. In Ankara, President İsmet İnönü, Speaker of the Parliament Abdülhalik Renda, Prime minister Celal Bayar, government ministers, Chief of the General Staff Marshal Fevzi Çakmak, high-ranked officers and members of the parliament were all present during the arrival of the funeral train in the Ankara Central Station.\n\nAtatürk's casket was brought on a caisson to the building of Turkish Grand National Assembly in Ulus, where it was placed on a catafalque in front of the parliament building for lying in state. Thousands of residents of Ankara paid their respects.\n\nThe next day, on November 21, a grander funeral ceremony was held, at which dignitaries from seventeen countries attended. The cortege with Atatürk's flag-covered casket on a horse-drawn caisson processed to the Ethnography Museum of Ankara escorted also by nine armed detachments from foreign nations, among them British, Iranian and Yugoslavian guards of honor.\n\nArrived at the Ethnography Museum of Ankara, Atatürk's casket was placed inside a white marmor sarcophagus specially built along with the covering Turkish flag.\n\nOfficials planned a monumental mausoleum for Atatürk at the topmost hill in Ankara, Rasattepe as it was called that time. During the fifteen years required for the mausoleum's construction, the Ethnography Museum of Ankara became Atatürk's temporary resting place.\n\nAfter completion of Anıtkabır in 1953, his sarcophagus was opened and his casket was taken out with the help of a trispastos in the presence of his sister Makbule Atadan, President Celal Bayar, Parliament speaker Refik Koraltan, Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, Chief of General Staff Nuri Yamut, Abdülhalik Renda and some other high officials. The casket was placed on a catafalque. Pathologist Prof. Kamile Şevki Mutlu from the Faculty of Medicine at Ankara University was tasked by Kemal Aygün, the governor of Ankara, with the opening of the casket, the inspection of the remains and the supervision of the preparations for the subsequent burial, which is required by funeral traditional customs. On November 9, her colleagues Dr. Cahit Özen and Dr. Şeref Yazgan and ten teachers of the technical vocational high school assisted her at this operation attended by high state officials.\n\nAfter opening of the casket's zinc lining, a brown plastic sack holding his remains came into appearance supported by wood splints. Following the removal of the plastic sack and the shroud inside wrapping his body, it was seen that Atatürk's body remained intact and unputrified thanks to the perfect embalming by Prof. Lütfi Aksu, who died in 1951. A sample of the embalming chemical used was found in the casket in a sealed bottle, labeled with the chemical's description.\n\nThe dignitaries present climbed one by one to the catafalque and looked at Atatürk's face. Following the advice of Mutlu, the casket was closed again after treatment of the remains with a special fixator and wrapping in shroud again.\n\nOn November 10, the 15th anniversary of Atatürk's death, his flag-covered casket was taken out the Ethnography Museum and carried on the shoulders of twelve soldiers onto a caisson. 138 young reserve officers in a procession that stretched for two miles (3 km) including the President, the Premier, every Cabinet minister, every parliamentary deputy, every provincial governor and every foreign diplomat, while at the same time 21 million Turks stood silently and motionless for five minutes all over the country. One admiral guarded a velvet cushion which bore the Medal of Independence; the only decoration, among many others held, that Atatürk preferred to wear. The Father of the Turks finally came to rest at his mausoleum, the Anıtkabir. An official noted: \n\nIn the cortege, the leaders of different religious communities in Turkey as the Armenian Patriarch, Greek Orthodox Patriarch, Roman Catholic Bishop and Jewish Chief Rabbi marched along with the Muslim President of Religious Affairs of Turkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "9677964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9677964", "title": "Diastasis symphysis pubis", "text": "Diastasis symphysis pubis\n\nDiastasis symphysis pubis is the separation of normally joined pubic bones, as in the dislocation of the bones, without a fracture.\n\nExternal forces such as falling from a horse or a car accident can result in this type of injury to the symphysis pubis.\n\nThis abnormally wide gap can be diagnosed by radiologic studies such as x-ray, MRI, CT scan or bone scan. Manual testing by a healthcare professional can also be used. The patient is placed in various positions and pressure is applied in such a way that it provokes pain and maybe movement in the pubis.\n\nAn X-ray film will show a marked gap between the pubic bones, normally there is a 4–5 mm gap but in pregnancy, hormonal influences cause relaxation of the connecting ligaments and the bones separate up to 9 mm. To demonstrate instability of the joint the patient is required to stand in the \"flamingo\" position, (standing with weight on one leg and the other bent). A vertical displacement of more than 1 cm is an indicator of symphysis pubis instability. A displacement of more than 2 cm usually indicates involvement of the sacroiliac joints.\n\nBoth diagnostic machines can produce detailed cross sections of the pelvic area. Images will show degrees soft tissue injury, inflammation of the subchondral region and the bone marrow and any abnormal posturing of the pelvic joints.\n\nA bone scan is able to determine areas of bone inflammation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4871121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4871121", "title": "Do Not Stand at My Grave and Weep", "text": "Do Not Stand at My Grave and Weep\n\n\"Do Not Stand at My Grave and Weep\" is a poem written in 1932 by Mary Elizabeth Frye. Although the origin of the poem was disputed until later in her life, Mary Frye's authorship was confirmed in 1998 after research by Abigail Van Buren, a newspaper columnist.\n\nThere have been many claimants to the poem's authorship, including attributions to traditional and Native American origins. \"Dear Abby\" author Abigail Van Buren researched the poem's history and concluded in 1998 that Mary Elizabeth Frye, who was living in Baltimore at the time, had written the poem in 1932. According to Van Buren's research, Frye had never written any poetry, but the plight of a German Jewish woman, Margaret Schwarzkopf, who was staying with her and her husband, had inspired the poem. Margaret Schwarzkopf was concerned about her mother, who was ill in Germany, but she had been warned not to return home because of increasing unrest. When her mother died, the heartbroken young woman told Frye that she never had the chance to \"stand by my mother's grave and shed a tear\". Frye, according to Van Buren's research, found herself composing a piece of verse on a brown paper shopping bag. Later she said that the words \"just came to her\" and expressed what she felt about life and death.\n\nFrye circulated the poem privately, never publishing or copyrighting it. She wrote other poems, but this, her first, endured. Her obituary in \"The Times\" stated that she was the author of the famous poem, which has been recited at funerals and on other appropriate occasions around the world for 60 years.\n\nThe poem was introduced to many in the United Kingdom when it was read by the father of a soldier killed by a bomb in Northern Ireland. The soldier's father read the poem on BBC radio in 1995 in remembrance of his son, who had left the poem among his personal effects in an envelope addressed 'To all my loved ones'.\n\nThe poem is common reading for funerals.\n\nTo coincide with National Poetry Day 1995, the British television programme \"The Bookworm\" conducted a poll to discover the nation's favourite poems, and subsequently published the winning poems in book form. The book's preface stated that \"Do Not Stand at My Grave and Weep\" was \"the unexpected poetry success of the year from Bookworm's point of view\"; the poem had \"provoked an extraordinary response... the requests started coming in almost immediately and over the following weeks the demand rose to a total of some thirty thousand. In some respects it became the nation's favourite poem by proxy... despite it being outside the competition.\" This was all the more remarkable, since the name and nationality of the American poet did not become known until several years later. In 2004 \"The Times\" wrote: \"The verse demonstrated a remarkable power to soothe loss. It became popular, crossing national boundaries for use on bereavement cards and at funerals regardless of race, religion or social status\".\n\nThe poem has been translated into Danish, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Ilocano, Japanese, Korean, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Tagalog, and other languages. Several Swedish versions exist. One version starts: \"Gråt ej vid min grav...\" Translated, it reads: \"Do not weep at my grave - I am not there / I am in the sun's reflection in the sea / I am in the wind's play above the grain fields / I am in the autumn's gentle rain / I am in the Milky Way's string of stars / And when on an early morning you are awaked by bird's song / It is my voice that you are hearing / So do not weep at my grave - we shall meet again.\" (Instead of these last four words there is also this version: \"I am not dead. I only left\".)\n\nEvery so often the poem and similar variations appear in death and funeral announcements in Swedish morning papers (such as \"Svenska Dagbladet\" August 14, 2010). On August 29, 2010, the Swedish newspaper \"Dagens Nyheter\" carried the following short English version: \"I am thousand winds that blow / I am the diamond glints on snow / I am the sunlight, I am the rain / Do not stand on my grave and cry / I am not there / I did not die\".\n\nSeveral notable choral compositions, pop songs, and other creative works have been based on \"Do Not Stand at My Grave and Weep\", adapting lines from Frye's poem as lyrics.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10382438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10382438", "title": "Drive-Thru (film)", "text": "Drive-Thru (film)\n\nDrive-Thru is a 2007 American horror black comedy film, directed by Brendan Cowles and Shane Kuhn, starring Leighton Meester and Nicholas D'Agosto. It is set in Orange County, California and involves an evil clown as a serial killer. The film was released direct-to-video on May 29, 2007.\n\nBrandon Meeks (Edward DeRuiter), Tony (Haven Lamoureux) and their girlfriends, Brittany (Jessica Landon) and Tiffany (Nicole Cavazos) arrive at the fast food restaurant \"Hella Burger\". Upon placing an order at the drive-thru, the group are introduced to the restaurant's mascot, Horny the Clown (voiced by Gordon Clapp) via intercom. The group is continuously insulted after Brandon mouths off to him, causing a furious Tony to enter. He searches the restaurant and hears a commotion coming from the kitchen. After looking around in the walk-in cooler, Horny suddenly jumps out and attacks him across the room before dunking him face first in the deep fryer. Brandon soon enters, only to find Tony dead in the deep fryer with his face burnt off, much to his horror. He is then attacked and murdered by Horny with a meat cleaver. Horny then proceeds outside and brutally murders Brittany and Tiffany when they discover the bodies of their boyfriends in the backseat.\n\nMeanwhile, Mackenzie (Leighton Meester) is having a house party with her boyfriend Fisher (Nicholas D'Agosto), and friends Val (Sita Young), Van (Penn Badgley) and Starfire (Rachael Bella). The group find a ouija board and decide to ask it what their future will hold, to which the ouija board spells out \"N1KLPL8\", a message that is unclear until the next day when the group see a news bulletin, showing the message is the license plate on Brandon's car. The following day at school, Val is ambushed by Horny in the locker room. Mackenzie complains that someone stole her camera at the party, but after school the janitor, Eddie (Sean Whalen), gives her the camera.\n\nMackenzie stays behind to develop the photos, and discovers that they show the deaths of the four murdered teenagers. Horny chases Mackenzie into the gymnasium, where she finds Val's head has been placed in a modified microwave, that when turned on causes her head to explode. Horny chases Mackenzie throughout the school, where she finds Lenny has been hanged, before bumping into a police officer, who fails to find any bodies. Mackenzie is taken down to the police station with her mom, Marcia (Melora Hardin) and dad, Bill (Paul Ganus) to be questioned by Detective Brenda Chase (Lola Glaudini) and Detective Dwayne Crockers (Larry Joe Campbell). The two detectives don't believe Mackenzie's story, but do suspect Lenny as the killer.\n\nThe next day, the detectives visit Jack Benjamin (John Gilbert), the owner of Hella Burger, who proves to be no help in solving the case. That night, Mackenzie and Fisher get ready to work at a carnival's haunted house. As they work, they have an argument with Chad (Tyler King) and Tina (Maliabeth Johnson), before they go into the ride. Suddenly, the lights are switched off and Chad is decapitated, before Tina is stabbed to death by Horny. Mackenzie and Starfire enter the haunted house after it breaks down. They find Fisher in a state of shock after witnessing the murders.\n\nMackenzie goes to visit Fisher in the hospital with Marcia. Mackenzie becomes annoyed with Marcia as she believes she is hiding something from her, as all the murdered teenagers are the children of her old high-school friends. Detective Chase overhears this and questions Tina's father, Bert (Robert Curtis Brown).\n\nAs Mackenzie arrives home, Marcia tells her that when she was young, she and her friends accidentally murdered Archie Benjamin (Van De La Plante), Jack Benjamin's son, on his 18th birthday at Hella Burger, and now his vengeful spirit has returned from the dead to get revenge. Mackenzie and Fisher are next attacked, resulting in Mackenzie being knocked unconscious and Fisher being cornered. Fisher manages to unmask Horny, who makes Fisher's eyes go bloody red after making eye contact with him before hurling him through a window. Meanwhile, Detective Chase and Detective Crockers come to the house and find Jack Benjamin behind his own bed, trying to hide from Archie.\n\nMackenzie wakes up in Hella Burger, tied to a chair with her mouth gagged with duct tape and surrounded by her murdered friends. A birthday cake is in front of her, as it is now her 18th birthday. Horny appears and reveals his murderous plan before dousing her with gasoline and holds a lit candle close to her face, about to repeat what Marcia did to him years ago just as Marcia herself arrives in time to save her daughter. Marcia shoots the clown in the mouth but with no effect. He reemerges and pins Marcia to the floor. Mackenzie drinks a bottle of whiskey she had earlier. Horny torments her with another candle while cackling at her face to face, unaware that Mackenzie has whiskey in her mouth. She defeats him by spraying whiskey onto the flame, setting him on fire. Mackenzie and Marcia escape as Horny burns to death.\n\nMackenzie and Marcia rush to the hospital to see Fisher whose eyes are still bloodshot, revealing that Archie has possessed Fisher's body. Mackenzie goes in to see him only to find the window wide open and his discarded clothes thrown outside on the ground, implying that the nightmare is not over. Detective Crockers places an order at the drive thru and Horny jumps onto the hood of his patrol car to kill him through the windshield.\n\n\nThe film was released on DVD by Lionsgate on May 29, 2007 and in Canada by Maple Pictures that same day.\n\n\"Popcorn Pictures\" gave the film a negative review, writing, \"Really hard to sit through despite the promise of a killer clown, \"Drive Thru\" is eighty-three minutes of pure fast food junk. Like a fast food burger, it may look good when you pick it up but as soon as you take your first bite, you realize you’ve made a horrible mistake and all you’ve got left is an ultimately fatty concoction of things that are bad for your health.\"\nDread Central panned the film calling the film's dialogue \"painfully bad\" and criticized the film's ending.\nDVD Talk called it \"routine slice and dice dreariness\", criticizing its inadequate humor, \"callous characterization\", and lack of actual scares.\n\n"}
{"id": "24522128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24522128", "title": "Eben Alexander (author)", "text": "Eben Alexander (author)\n\nEben Alexander III (born December 11, 1953) is an American neurosurgeon and author. His book \"Proof of Heaven: A Neurosurgeon's Journey into the Afterlife\" (2012) describes his 2008 near-death experience and asserts that science can and will determine that the brain does not create consciousness and that consciousness survives bodily death. Alexander is also the author of the 2014 book \"The Map of Heaven\" which builds on the claims in his previous book, and coauthor of the 2017 book \"Living in a Mindful Universe\" which describes his personal journey since 2008.\n\nAlexander was born in Charlotte, North Carolina. He was adopted by Eben Alexander Jr and his wife Elizabeth West Alexander and raised in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, with three siblings. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy (class of 1972), University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (A.B., 1975), and the Duke University School of Medicine (M.D., 1980). He completed his Neurosurgery residency at Duke University Medical Center in 1987 followed by a Cerebrovascular Neurosurgery fellowship at the Newcastle General Hospital in the United Kingdom in 1988.\n\nAlexander has taught and had appointments at Duke University Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, University of Massachusetts Medical School, and the University of Virginia Medical School, Boston Children's Hospital, Dana–Farber Cancer Institute et al.\n\nWhile practicing medicine in Lynchburg at the Lynchburg General Hospital, Alexander was reprimanded by the Virginia Board of Medicine for performing surgery at an incorrect surgical site two times over the course of a month. In one instance, Alexander altered his operative report because he believed the surgery had diminished the patient's symptoms. He was sued by the patient for damages totaling $3 million in August 2008, but the case was dismissed by the plaintiff in 2009. As a result of the mishaps, Alexander lost his privileges at the hospital and was forced to pay a $3,500 fine to the Virginia Board of Medicine and complete ethics and professionalism training to maintain an unrestricted medical license in the state.\n\nFollowing the release of his 2012 book \"Proof of Heaven\", \"Esquire\" magazine reported that Alexander had been terminated or suspended from multiple hospital positions, and had been the subject of several malpractice lawsuits and that he settled five malpractice suits in Virginia within a period of ten years.\n\nIn 2012, Alexander authored a semi-autobiographical book \"Proof of Heaven: A Neurosurgeon’s Journey into the Afterlife\", in which he asserted that his self-experience of out of body and near-death experience (NDE), while in a meningitis-induced coma in 2008, proved that consciousness is independent of the brain and that death is a transition phase into another realm. Alexander said in a \"New York Times\" interview that he had preferred a title of \"An N of One\" (a medical trial size of one patient) instead of \"Proof of Heaven\". He said, believers in heaven were not happy with the title because, \"This is not scientific proof.\"\n\nAlexander's book was excerpted in a \"Newsweek\" magazine cover story in October 2012. Alexander provided a slightly more technical account of the events described in his book in an article, \"My Experience in Coma\", in \"AANS Neurosurgeon\", the trade publication of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons.\n\nSince the release of the book, he has presented hundreds of lectures around the world in churches, hospitals, medical schools, and academic symposia, besides appearing on TV shows including \"Super Soul Sunday\" with Oprah Winfrey. Alexander has also expanded on his NDE in the Congress of Neurological Surgeons and the peer-reviewed Journal of the Missouri State Medical Association.\n\n\"Proof of Heaven\" was included on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for 97 weeks.\n\nAlexander's second book, \"The Map of Heaven: How Science, Religion, and Ordinary People Are Proving the Afterlife\", was published in October 2014, where he again asserted the existence of an afterlife and that consciousness is independent of the brain. \"The Map of Heaven\" was number 12 on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list during the week ending November 2, 2014.\n\nAlexander's third book, \"Living in a Mindful Universe: A Neurosurgeon's Journey into the Heart of Consciousness\", was coauthored with Karen Newell, cofounder of Sacred Acoustics. Published in 2017, the book discusses attempts to understand the true nature of consciousness backed by scientific findings and cultivating a state of harmony with the universe and our higher purpose. The authors also discuss awareness of spiritual realms and developing experience that leads to profound understanding for a more harmonious and peaceful world.\n\nIn a 2013 investigation of Alexander's story and medical background, \"Esquire\" magazine reported that before the publication of \"Proof of Heaven\", Alexander had been terminated or suspended from multiple hospital positions, and had been the subject of several malpractice lawsuits, including at least two involving the alteration of medical records to cover up a medical error. He settled five malpractice suits in Virginia within a period of ten years.\n\"Esquire\" also found what it said were discrepancies with regard to Alexander's version of events in the book. Among the discrepancies, was that Alexander had written the cause of his coma was bacterial meningitis, despite his doctor telling the reporter that he had been conscious and hallucinating before being placed in a medically induced coma. In a statement responding to the criticism, Alexander maintained that his representation of the experience was truthful and that he believed in the message contained in his book. He also claimed that the \"Esquire\" article \"cherry-picked\" information about his past to discredit his accounts of the event.\n\n\"Proof of Heaven\" was also criticized by scientists, including Sam Harris who described Alexander's NDE account on his blog as \"alarmingly unscientific\", and that claims of experiencing visions while his cerebral cortex was shut down demonstrated a failure to acknowledge existing brain science with little evidence prove otherwise. Neurologist and writer Oliver Sacks agreed with Harris, and argued that Alexander had failed to recognize that the experience could have been the result of his cortex returning to full function at the outset of his coma, rather than a supernatural experience. In 2012 Alexander responded to critics in a second \"Newsweek\" article.\n\nIn 2000, Alexander located his birth parents but learned his birth mother did not want to meet him. His birth mother eventually changed her mind and Alexander met his birth parents and siblings in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2572047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2572047", "title": "Edmund Birch", "text": "Edmund Birch\n\nEdmund Birch (1831 – 16 January 1875) was a Member of the Western Australian Legislative Council from 1873 to 1875.\n\nBorn in England in 1831, Birch emigrated to Western Australia on the \"Parkfield\" in March 1841. There he was apprenticed to George Shenton Sr as a pharmacist. From 1852 to 1853, he was an assistant at the Colonial Hospital (now Royal Perth Hospital). He then went into partnership with his father and brother as pharmacists and grocers in Perth. In May 1856 he married Anne Hymus; they would have eight children.\n\nBirch began to take an interest in public life, becoming vice president of the Perth Workingmen's Association and chairman of the Swan Mechanics' Institute. In 1862 he was a founding director of the Perth Building Society. The following year he became a member of the Perth Municipal Council, which position he held until his death. He became a member of the Perth Board of Education, a director of the WA Bank, and in 1872 was captain of the Volunteer Rifle Corps.\n\nOn 19 October 1870, Birch contested the Legislative Council's seat of Perth, but was unsuccessful. On 18 November 1873, he contested the seat again in a by-election. He won the seat, holding it until his death. He died on 16 January 1875 as a result of injuries from a fire.\n"}
{"id": "11407535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11407535", "title": "Elizabeth Adekogbe", "text": "Elizabeth Adekogbe\n\nChief Elizabeth Adekogbe (1919-1968) was a Nigerian nationalist, politician, women's rights leader and traditional aristocrat. She was the leader of the Ibadan-based Women's Movement of Nigeria. In 1954, the movement changed its name to Nigerian Council of Women and in 1959, merged with the Women's Improvement League to form the National Council of Women Societies, a dominant pressure group and a leading women's coalition in Nigeria.\n\nAdekogbe was born to a family from Ijebu-Ife in 1919. She studied at St Agnes Catholic Training School and Yaba College of Technology. She soon joined the civil service and rose to become an Assistant Inspector of Prices during World War II.\n\nThe Women's Movement was formed in Ibadan in 1952. The group's objectives were universal suffrage, admission of women to Native Authority councils, the nomination of members to the Western House of Assembly, enrollment of more girls in secondary schools, a reduction in the bride price and controls over Syrian and Lebanese trading monopolies. The organization was sometimes aligned with the Action Group. However, few or zero politicians and parties put forth women candidates in federal elections during the period, though women played a major role in electioneering at the time. The women groups were more likely used for gaining votes.\n\nIn 1953, a women's conference was convened in Abeokuta. The conference contained all the major women's organization in the country. A leader of the assembly, Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, who was favorably disposed towards the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons (NCNC), named the congregation: the Federation of Nigerian Women's Society. However, there was a battle of wills among the two prominent women at the assembly: Adekogbe and Kuti. Adekogbe lost, and left the assembly. Later, she supported an alliance with the women's league of the Action Group.\n\nAs a chieftain of the Yoruba people to which she belonged, she held the title of the Iyalaje of Ikija.\n\nHer husband, L.A.G Adekogbe, was a civil servant.\n"}
{"id": "39681640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39681640", "title": "Espen Aalberg", "text": "Espen Aalberg\n\nEspen Aalberg is a Norwegian jazz musician (drums) known for his contributions in several orchestras like The Core, Shagma, Kwaz, Håvard Lund Quartet and musicians like Jonas Kullhammar, Håvard Wiik and Torbjörn Zetterberg. He also contributes on a series of recordings.\n\nAalberg played percussion in Namsos percussion ensemble (1988–1994) and became champion in ensemble playing, after which he studied at the \"Musikkonservatoriet\" in Tromsø and the Jazz Program at \"Trondheim Musikkonservatorium\" (1998–2000). (1999–2002). While studying jazz in Trondheim, he formed the innovative band The Core together with fellow students (including Kjetil Møster, Erlend Slettevoll and Steinar Raknes). He also established the jazz band Shagma in 2004, comprising additional Jørgen Mathisen and Raknes. At the Nattjazz jazz festival in Bergen 2006 he led the band Kwaz comprising Jonas Kullhammar, Håvard Wiik and Torbjörn Zetterberg. In addition Aalberg has contributed within Håvard Lund Quartet.\n\nIn 2006 Aalberg and The Core, now as The Indian Core, contributed on The Oslo World Music Festival, after returning from a Tour to India with three hot Indian musicians. The result of this cooperation is manifested on the album \"The Indian Core\" (2007).\n\nAalberg also acts as a drummer in classical music within among others Trondheim Symphony Orchestra, Trondheim Sinfonietta and \"Luftforsvarets Musikkorps\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33026550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33026550", "title": "Eternal life (Christianity)", "text": "Eternal life (Christianity)\n\nEternal life traditionally refers to continued life after death, as outlined in Christian eschatology. The Apostles' Creed testifies: \"I believe... the resurrection of the body, and life everlasting.\" In this view, eternal life commences after the second coming of Jesus and the resurrection of the dead, although in the New Testament's Johannine literature there are references to eternal life commencing in the earthly life of the believer, possibly indicating an inaugurated eschatology.\n\nAccording to mainstream Christian theology, after death but before the Second Coming, the saved live with God in an intermediate state, but after the Second Coming, experience the physical resurrection of the dead and the physical recreation of a New Earth. The Catechism of the Catholic Church states, \"By death the soul is separated from the body, but in the resurrection God will give incorruptible life to our body, transformed by reunion with our soul. Just as Christ is risen and lives for ever, so all of us will rise at the last day.\" N.T. Wright argues that \"God's plan is not to abandon this world... Rather, he intends to remake it. And when he does, he will raise all people to new bodily life to live in it. That is the promise of the Christian gospel\" \n\nIn the Synoptic Gospels and the Pauline Letters, eternal life is generally regarded as a future experience, but the Gospel of John differs from them in its emphasis on eternal life as a \"present possession\". Raymond E. Brown points out that in the synoptic gospels eternal life is something received at the final judgment, or a future age (, ) but the Gospel of John positions eternal life as a present possibility, as in .\n\nThus, unlike the synoptics, in the Gospel of John eternal life is not only futuristic, but also pertains to the present. In John, those who accept Christ can possess life \"here and now\" as well as in eternity, for they have \"passed from death to life\", as in : \"He who hears my word, and believes him that sent me, has eternal life, and comes not into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.\" In John, the purpose for the incarnation, death, resurrection and glorification of The Word was to provide eternal life to humanity.\n\nScholars such as John H. Leith assert that eternal life is never described in detail in the New Testament, although assurances are provided that the faithful will receive it. Other scholars such as D. A. Carson suggest that eternal life is explicitly defined in , where Jesus says in his High Priestly Prayer, \"Now this is eternal life: that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.\" Carson says of this verse that \"Eternal life turns on nothing more and nothing less than knowledge of the true God\" and that it is \"not so much everlasting life as personal knowledge of the Everlasting One.\" The \"Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible\" on the other hand, contends that \"the nature of eternal life is only sketched in its essential elements in the New Testament\".\n\nWhile the Synoptic Gospels are seen as focusing on the proclamation of the Kingdom of God, some scholars see eternal life as the central theme of Jesus' preaching in the Gospel of John, where receiving eternal life is seen to be synonymous with entering the Kingdom. In Christian teachings, eternal life is not an inherent part of human existence, and is a unique gift from God, based on the model of the Resurrection of Jesus, viewed as a unique event through which death was conquered \"once for all\", permitting Christians to experience eternal life. This eternal life is provided to believers, generally assumed to be at the resurrection of the dead.\n\nIn New Testament theology, in addition to \"life\" (zoe, i.e. \"ζωὴ\" in Greek), there is also a promised spiritual life sometimes described by the adjective \"eternal\" (aionios i.e. \"αἰώνιος\" in Greek) but other times simply referred to as \"life\". In both John and Paul the possibility of attaining eternal life and avoiding the wrath of God is dependent on believing in Jesus, the Son of God. For John abiding in Christ involves love for one another, as in , and . The existence of divine love in believers, then facilitates the influence of the gospel on the world, and lead to widespread salvation. then manifests \"the already but not yet\" acquisition of eternal life by referring to the acquisition of eternal life as a once for all (\"ephapax\") event, and the role of love in attaining it: \"We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love each other. Anyone who does not love remains in death\", somewhat reminiscent of the words of Jesus in .\n\nIn the Pauline epistles, the oldest texts in the New Testament, eternal life becomes possible in the person of Christ, where by the grace of God and through faith in Christ humans can receive the gift of eternal life. For Paul (as in ) future eternal life arrives as a result of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit during the present life. Paul views sin as an obstacle to attaining eternal life, as in .\nFor Paul eternal life is a future possession and \"the eschatological goal towards which believers strive.\" Paul emphasizes that eternal life is not merely something to be earned, but a gift from God, as in : \"wages of sin is death; but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.\" Romans 6:23 thus also counter-positions sin and eternal life: while sin results in death, those who are \"in Christ\" will reap eternal life.\n\nPaul also discusses the relationship of eternal life to the Holy Spirit, stating that to be with the Spirit and to think with the Spirit leads to eternal life, e.g. : :\"he who sows to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap eternal life.\" For Paul future eternal life arrives as a result of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit during the present life, and the inter-related statements about the present life, the Spirit and future life form a key element of the teachings on the topic in Galatians.\n\nThe Synoptic Gospels include fifteen occurrences of the word life, eight of these including the adjective eternal.\n\nThere are parallels in how the synoptics refer to \"being saved\" and John refers to eternal life, as in the table below:\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, the Parable of the Good Samaritan begins with a question about eternal life in when a lawyer asks Jesus what he needs to do to \"inherit eternal life\".\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew includes references to eternal life, in , and . The reference in Matthew 19:16 is within the parable of Jesus and the rich young man which also appears in Mark 10:17–31 and Luke 18:18–30. This parable relates the term \"eternal life\" to entry into the Kingdom of God. The parable starts by a question to Jesus from the young man: \"what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?\" and Jesus advises him to keep the commandments, and then refers to entry into the \"Kingdom of God\" in the same context.\n\nThe Johannine concept of eternal life differs from the synoptic view. Johannine writings specifically present the view of eternal life as not simply futuristic, but also pertaining to the present, so those who hear the words of Jesus and trust in Yaweh can possess life \"here and now\" as well as in eternity, for they have \"passed from death to life\", as in . Overall, the New Testament balances the present and future with respect to eternal life: the believer has passed from death to eternal life, but this remains to be totally realized in the future.\n\nThere are about 37 uses of the word life in the Gospel of John of which about half refer to eternal life. There are six appearances in 1 John. The concept so permeates Johannine writings that in many cases one may just read \"life\" as \"eternal life\".\n\nReformed evangelical theologian D. A. Carson sees as giving the \"strongest affirmation of inaugurated eschatology in the Fourth Gospel\": it is not necessary for the believer to \"wait until the last day to experience something of resurrection life.\" George Eldon Ladd points out that, like the Kingdom of God, eternal life is \"not only an eschatological gift belonging to the Age to Come; it is also a gift to be received in the old aeon\". In this context, the gift of eternal life in the old aeon in which sin and death are still present is contrasted with eternal life in the new aeon of life and righteousness, the World to Come to which the faithful will belong.\n\nHowever, although as in God has provided the gift of eternal life to believers, the possibility of perishing (\"απόληται\") remains if one rejects Jesus. According to , \"He that believeth on the Son hath eternal life; but he that obeyeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him.\"\n\nTowards the end of the Gospel of John (), the purpose of writing the Fourth Gospel is stated as: \"so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name\". This is often correlated to : \"These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life.\"\n\nJohn's Gospel positions \"eternal life\" around the person of \"Jesus\", the Christ. In the Johannine view Christ can reveal life to humans because he is life himself. : \"proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us\" is compared to : \"and the Word was with God\", referring to the pre-existence of Christ.\n\nThe term is used in the Gospel of John in the context of the \"Water of Life\" and states: \"the water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up unto eternal life.\"\n\nIn Jesus states that: \"he who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.\" This has been transposed, not only into a relationship with Jesus in common with Christian Theology but also into the Eucharist as an element of obtaining eternal life. The Catechism of the Catholic Church (item 1212) teaches that Christians are born through the sacrament of Baptism and receive the \"food of eternal life\" in the Eucharist.\n\nIn Jesus states that: \"My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: and I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish.\" This refers to the personal, heart to heart relationship the Christian is expected to have with Jesus.\n\nAnother use is in : \"And this is life eternal, that they should know thee the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, Jesus Christ\", this usage relating to the \"theme of life\" in the Book of Revelation.\n\nCatholic Christians teach that there is a supernatural realm called Purgatory where souls who have died in a state of grace but have yet to expiate venial sins or temporal punishments due to past sins are cleansed before they are admitted into Heaven.\n\nSeventh-day Adventists believe that only God has immortality, and when a person dies, death is a state of unconscious sleep until the resurrection. They base this belief on biblical texts such as Ecclesiastes 9:5 which states \"the dead know nothing\", and 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18 which contains a description of the dead being raised from the grave at the second coming.\n\nThe text of Genesis 2:7 clearly states that God breathed into the formed man the \"breath of life\" and man became a living soul. He did not receive a living soul; he became one. The New King James Bible states that \"man became a living being\". According to the Scriptures, only man received life in this way from God. Because of this man is the only living creature to have a soul.\n\nOf the many references to soul and spirit in the Bible, never once is either the soul or the spirit declared to be immortal, imperishable or eternal. Indeed, only God has immortality (1 Timothy 1:17; 6:16). Adventists teach that the resurrection of the righteous will take place at the second coming of Jesus, at which time they will be restored to life and taken to reside in Heaven.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe the word soul (\"nephesh\" or \"psykhe\") as used in the Bible is a person, an animal, or the life a person or animal enjoys. Hence, the soul is not part of man, but is the whole man—man as a living being. Hence, when a person or animal dies, the soul dies, and death is a state of non-existence, based on Psalms 146:4, Ezekiel 18:4, and other passages. Hell (Hades) is not a place of fiery torment, but rather the common grave of humankind, a place of unconsciousness.\n\nOne group, referenced as \"the little flock\" of 144,000 people, will receive immortality and go to heaven to rule as Kings and Priests with Christ during the thousand years. As for the rest of humankind, after the final judgment, it is expected that the righteous will receive eternal life and live forever on an Earth turned into a paradise. \n\nThose granted immortality in heaven are absolutely immortal and \"cannot\" die by any cause. Even God himself wouldn't be able to kill them. They teach that Jesus was the first to be rewarded with heavenly immortality, but that Revelation 7:4 and Revelation 14:1, 3 refer to a literal number (144,000) of additional people who will become \"self-sustaining\", that is, not needing anything outside themselves (food, sunlight, etc.) to maintain their own life.\n\nThey make a distinction between immortality and eternal life in that humans who have passed the final judgement and were rewarded \"eternal life\" \"can\" still technically lose that life and die if they were ever hypothetically sin at some future point in time, though they do not succumb to disease or old age, due to their living forever still being subject to obedience. They also still continue to be dependent on food, water, air, and such to maintain life. Nevertheless, those who pass that final test are \"guaranteed\" to remain faithful throughout all eternity due to the test being perfect and designed to eliminate those who would ever misuse their free will.\n\nIn Latter-day Saint (Mormonism) theology, the spirit and the body constitute the human soul. Whereas the human body is subject to death on earth, they believe that the spirit never ceases to exist and that one day the spirits and bodies of all mankind will be reunited again. This doctrine stems from their belief that the resurrection of Jesus Christ grants the universal gift of immortality to every human being.\n\nJoseph Smith, Jr., the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, provided a description of the afterlife based upon a vision he received, which is recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. According to the 76th section of the LDS scripture, the afterlife consists of three degrees or kingdoms of glory, called the Celestial Kingdom, the Terrestrial Kingdom, and the Telestial Kingdom. Other Biblical scriptures speak of varying degrees of glory, such as : \"There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in glory.\"\n\nThe few who do not inherit any degree of glory (though they are resurrected) reside in a state called outer darkness, which, though not a degree of glory, is often discussed in this context. Only those known as the \"Sons of Perdition\" are condemned to this state.\n\nThe doctrine of conditional immortality states the human soul is naturally mortal, and that immortality is granted by God as a gift. The doctrine is a \"significant minority evangelical view\" that has \"grown within evangelicalism in recent years\".\n\nSome sects who hold to the doctrine of baptismal regeneration also believe in a third realm called Limbo, which is the final destination of souls who have not been baptised, but who have been innocent of mortal sin. Souls in Limbo include unbaptised infants and those who lived virtuously but were never exposed to Christianity in their lifetimes. Christian Scientists believe that sin brought death, and that death will be overcome with the overcoming of sin.\n\n\nEternal Life is Now!\n"}
{"id": "5097395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5097395", "title": "Homophobia", "text": "Homophobia\n\nHomophobia encompasses a range of negative attitudes and feelings toward homosexuality or people who are identified or perceived as being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT). It has been defined as contempt, prejudice, aversion, hatred or antipathy, may be based on irrational fear, and is often related to religious beliefs.\n\nHomophobia is observable in critical and hostile behavior such as discrimination and violence on the basis of sexual orientations that are non-heterosexual. Recognized types of homophobia include \"institutionalized\" homophobia, e.g. religious homophobia and state-sponsored homophobia, and \"internalized\" homophobia, experienced by people who have same-sex attractions, regardless of how they identify.\n\nNegative attitudes toward identifiable LGBT groups have similar yet specific names: lesbophobia is the intersection of homophobia and sexism directed against lesbians, biphobia targets bisexuality and bisexual people, and transphobia targets transgender and transsexual people and gender variance or gender role nonconformity. According to 2010 Hate Crimes Statistics released by the FBI National Press Office, 19.3 percent of hate crimes across the United States \"were motivated by a sexual orientation bias.\" Moreover, in a Southern Poverty Law Center 2010 \"Intelligence Report\" extrapolating data from fourteen years (1995–2008), which had complete data available at the time, of the FBI's national hate crime statistics found that LGBT people were \"far more likely than any other minority group in the United States to be victimized by violent hate crime.\"\n\nThe term \"homophobia\" and its usage have been criticized by several sources as unwarrantedly pejorative.\n\nAlthough sexual attitudes tracing back to Ancient Greece (8th to 6th centuries BC to the end of antiquity (ca. 600 AD)) have been termed homophobia by scholars, the term itself is relatively new, and an intolerance towards homosexuality and homosexuals grew during the Middle Ages, especially by adherents of Islam and Christianity.\n\nCoined by George Weinberg, a psychologist, in the 1960s, the term \"homophobia\" is a blend of (1) the word \"homosexual\", itself a mix of neo-classical morphemes, and (2) \"phobia\" from the Greek φόβος, phóbos, meaning \"fear\" or \"morbid fear\". Weinberg is credited as the first person to have used the term in speech. The word \"homophobia\" first appeared in print in an article written for the May 23, 1969, edition of the American pornographic magazine \"Screw\", in which the word was used to refer to heterosexual men's fear that others might think they are gay.\n\nConceptualizing anti-LGBT prejudice as a social problem worthy of scholarly attention was not new. A 1969 article in \"Time\" described examples of negative attitudes toward homosexuality as \"homophobia\", including \"a mixture of revulsion and apprehension\" which some called \"homosexual panic\". In 1971, Kenneth Smith used \"homophobia\" as a personality profile to describe the psychological aversion to homosexuality. Weinberg also used it this way in his 1972 book \"Society and the Healthy Homosexual\", published one year before the American Psychiatric Association voted to remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders. Weinberg's term became an important tool for gay and lesbian activists, advocates, and their allies. He describes the concept as a medical phobia:\n\nIn 1981, \"homophobia\" was used for the first time in \"The Times\" (of London) to report that the General Synod of the Church of England voted to refuse to condemn homosexuality.\n\nHomophobia manifests in different forms, and a number of different types have been postulated, among which are internalized homophobia, social homophobia, emotional homophobia, rationalized homophobia, and others. There were also ideas to classify homophobia, racism, and sexism as an \"intolerant personality disorder\".\n\nIn 1992, the American Psychiatric Association, recognizing the power of the stigma against homosexuality, issued the following statement, reaffirmed by the Board of Trustees, July 2011:\n\"Whereas homosexuality \"per se\" implies no impairment in judgment, stability, reliability, or general social or vocational capabilities, the American Psychiatric Association (APA) calls on all international health organizations, psychiatric organizations, and individual psychiatrists in other countries to urge the repeal in their own countries of legislation that penalizes homosexual acts by consenting adults in private. Further, APA calls on these organizations and individuals to do all that is possible to decrease the stigma related to homosexuality wherever and whenever it may occur.\"\n\nMany world religions contain anti-homosexual teachings, while other religions have varying degrees of ambivalence, neutrality, or incorporate teachings that regard homosexuals as third gender. Even within some religions which generally discourage homosexuality, there are also people who view homosexuality positively, and some religious denominations bless or conduct same-sex marriages. There also exist so-called Queer religions, dedicated to serving the spiritual needs of LGBTQI persons. Queer theology seeks to provide a counterpoint to religious homophobia. In 2015, attorney and author Roberta Kaplan stated that Kim Davis \"is the clearest example of someone who wants to use a religious liberty argument to discriminate [against same-sex couples].\"\n\nThe Bible, especially the Old Testament, contains some passages commonly interpreted as condemning homosexuality or same-gender sexual relations. Leviticus 18:22, says \"Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.\" The destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah is also commonly seen as a condemnation of homosexuality. Christians and Jews who oppose homosexuality often cite such passages; historical context and interpretation is more complicated. Scholarly debate over the interpretation of these passages has focused on placing them in proper historical context, for instance pointing out that Sodom's sins are historically interpreted as being other than homosexuality, and on the translation of rare or unusual words in the passages in question. In \"Religion Dispatches\" magazine, Candace Chellew-Hodge argues that the six or so verses that are often cited to condemn LGBT people are referring instead to \"abusive sex\". She states that the Bible has no condemnation for \"loving, committed, gay and lesbian relationships\" and that Jesus was silent on the subject.\n\nThe official teaching of the Catholic Church regarding homosexuality is that same-sex behavior should not be expressed. The Catechism of the Catholic Church States that, \"'homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered.'...They are contrary to the natural law... Under no circumstances can they be approved.\"\n\nIn some cases, the distinction between religious homophobia and state-sponsored homophobia is not clear, a key example being territories under Islamic authority. All major Islamic sects forbid homosexuality, which is a crime under Sharia Law and treated as such in most Muslim countries. In Afghanistan, for instance, homosexuality carried the death penalty under the Taliban. After their fall, homosexuality was reduced from a capital crime to one that is punished with fines and prison sentences. The legal situation in the United Arab Emirates, however, is unclear.\n\nIn 2009, the International Lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) published a report entitled \"State Sponsored Homophobia 2009\", which is based on research carried out by Daniel Ottosson at Södertörn University College, Stockholm, Sweden. This research found that of the 80 countries around the world that continue to consider homosexuality illegal:\n\nIn 2001, Al-Muhajiroun, an international organization seeking the establishment of a global Islamic caliphate, issued a fatwa declaring that all members of The Al-Fatiha Foundation (which advances the cause of gay, lesbian, and transgender Muslims) were \"murtadd\", or apostates, and condemning them to death. Because of the threat and because they come from conservative societies, many members of the foundation's site still prefer to be anonymous so as to protect their identities while they are continuing a tradition of secrecy.\n\nState-sponsored homophobia includes the criminalization and penalization of homosexuality, hate speech from government figures, and other forms of discrimination, violence, persecution of LGBT people.\n\nIn medieval Europe, homosexuality was considered sodomy and it was punishable by death. Persecutions reached their height during the Medieval Inquisitions, when the sects of Cathars and Waldensians were accused of fornication and sodomy, alongside accusations of Satanism. In 1307, accusations of sodomy and homosexuality were major charges leveled during the Trial of the Knights Templar. The theologian Thomas Aquinas was influential in linking condemnations of homosexuality with the idea of natural law, arguing that \"special sins are against nature, as, for instance, those that run counter to the intercourse of male and female natural to animals, and so are peculiarly qualified as unnatural vices.\"\n\nAlthough bisexuality was accepted as normal human behavior in Ancient China, homophobia became ingrained in the late Qing Dynasty and the Republic of China due to interactions with the Christian West, and homosexual behaviour was outlawed in 1740. When Mao Zedong came to power, the government thought of homosexuality as \"social disgrace or a form of mental illness\", and \"[d]uring the cultural revolution (1966–76), people who were homosexual faced their worst period of persecution in Chinese history.\" Despite there being no law in the communist People's Republic against homosexuality, \"police regularly rounded up gays and lesbians.\" Other laws were used to prosecute homosexual people and they were \"charged with hooliganism or disturbing public order.\"\n\nThe Soviet Union under Vladimir Lenin decriminalized homosexuality in 1922, long before many other European countries. The Soviet Communist Party effectively legalized no-fault divorce, abortion and homosexuality, when they abolished all the old Tsarist laws and the initial Soviet criminal code kept these liberal sexual policies in place. Lenin's emancipation was reversed a decade later by Joseph Stalin and homosexuality remained illegal under Article 121 until the Yeltsin era.\n\nHomosexuals were one of the many groups alongside Jews that were murdered during the Holocaust.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal in 74 countries. The North Korean government condemns Western gay culture as a vice caused by the decadence of a capitalist society, and it denounces it as promoting consumerism, classism, and promiscuity. In North Korea, \"violating the rules of collective socialist life\" can be punished with up to two years' imprisonment. However, according to the North Korean government, \"As a country that has embraced science and rationalism, the DPRK recognizes that many individuals are born with homosexuality as a genetic trait and treats them with due respect. Homosexuals in the DPRK have never been subject to repression, as in many capitalist regimes around the world.\"\n\nRobert Mugabe, the former president of Zimbabwe, has waged a violent campaign against LGBT people, arguing that before colonisation, Zimbabweans did not engage in homosexual acts. His first major public condemnation of homosexuality was in August 1995, during the Zimbabwe International Book Fair. He told an audience: \"If you see people parading themselves as lesbians and gays, arrest them and hand them over to the police!\" In September 1995, Zimbabwe's parliament introduced legislation banning homosexual acts. In 1997, a court found Canaan Banana, Mugabe's predecessor and the first President of Zimbabwe, guilty of 11 counts of sodomy and indecent assault.\n\nInternalized homophobia refers to negative stereotypes, beliefs, stigma, and prejudice about homosexuality and LGBT people that a person with same-sex attraction turns inward on themselves, whether or not they identify as LGBT. The degree to which someone is affected by these ideas depends on how much and which ideas they have consciously and subconsciously internalized. These negative beliefs can be mitigated with education, life experience and therapy, especially with gay-friendly psychotherapy/analysis. Internalized homophobia also applies to conscious or unconscious behaviors which a person feels the need to promote or conform to cultural expectations of heteronormativity or heterosexism. This can include extreme repression and denial coupled with forced outward displays of heteronormative behavior for the purpose of appearing or attempting to feel \"normal\" or \"accepted.\" Other expressions of internalized homophobia can also be subtle. Some less overt behaviors may include making assumptions about the gender of a person's romantic partner, or about gender roles. Some researchers also apply this label to LGBT people who support \"compromise\" policies, such as those that find civil unions acceptable in place of same-sex marriage.\n\nSome studies have shown that people who are homophobic are more likely to have repressed homosexual desires. In 1996, a controlled study of 64 heterosexual men (half said they were homophobic by experience, with self-reported orientation) at the University of Georgia found that men who were found to be homophobic (as measured by the Index of Homophobia) were considerably more likely to experience more erectile responses when exposed to homoerotic images than non-homophobic men. Another study in 2012 arrived at similar results when researchers found that students who came from \"the most rigid anti-gay homes\" were most likely to reveal repressed homosexual attraction. The researchers said that this explained why some religious leaders who denounce homosexuality are later revealed to have secret homosexual relations. They noted that \"these people are at war with themselves and are turning this internal conflict outward.\" A 2016 eye-tracking study showed that heterosexual men with high negative impulse reactions toward homosexuals gazed for longer periods at homosexual imagery than other heterosexual men. According to Cheval et al. (2016), these findings reinforce the necessity to consider that homophobia might reflect concerns about sexuality in general and not homosexuality in particular.\n\nResearcher Iain R. Williamson, in his 1998 paper \"Internalized Homophobia and Health Issues Affecting Lesbians and Gay Men\" finds the term \"homophobia\" to be \"highly problematic\" but for reasons of continuity and consistency with the majority of other publications on the issue retains its use rather than using more accurate but obscure terminology. The phrase \"internalized sexual stigma\" is sometimes used in place to represent internalized homophobia. An internalized stigma arises when a person believes negative stereotypes about themselves, regardless of where the stereotypes come from. It can also refer to many stereotypes beyond sexuality and gender roles. Internalized homophobia can cause discomfort with and disapproval of one's own sexual orientation. Ego-dystonic sexual orientation or egodystonic homophobia, for instance, is a condition characterized by having a sexual orientation or an attraction that is at odds with one's idealized self-image, causing anxiety and a desire to change one's orientation or become more comfortable with one's sexual orientation. Such a situation may cause extreme repression of homosexual desires. In other cases, a conscious internal struggle may occur for some time, often pitting deeply held religious or social beliefs against strong sexual and emotional desires. This discordance can cause clinical depression, and a higher rate of suicide among LGBT youth (up to 30 percent of non-heterosexual youth attempt suicide) has been attributed to this phenomenon. Psychotherapy, such as gay affirmative psychotherapy, and participation in a sexual-minority affirming group can help resolve the internal conflicts, such as between religious beliefs and sexual identity. Even informal therapies that address understanding and accepting of non-heterosexual orientations can prove effective. Many diagnostic \"Internalized Homophobia Scales\" can be used to measure a person's discomfort with their sexuality and some can be used by people regardless of gender or sexual orientation. Critics of the scales note that they presume a discomfort with non-heterosexuality which in itself enforces heternormativity.\n\nThe fear of being identified as gay can be considered as a form of social homophobia. Theorists including Calvin Thomas and Judith Butler have suggested that homophobia can be rooted in an individual's fear of being identified as gay. Homophobia in men is correlated with insecurity about masculinity. For this reason, homophobia is allegedly rampant in sports, and in the subculture of its supporters that is considered stereotypically male, such as association football and rugby.\n\nThese theorists have argued that a person who expresses homophobic thoughts and feelings does so not only to communicate their beliefs about the class of gay people, but also to distance themselves from this class and its social status. Thus, by distancing themselves from gay people, they are reaffirming their role as a heterosexual in a heteronormative culture, thereby attempting to prevent themselves from being labeled and treated as a gay person. This interpretation alludes to the idea that a person may posit violent opposition to \"the Other\" as a means of establishing their own identity as part of the majority and thus gaining social validation.\n\nNancy J. Chodorow states that homophobia can be viewed as a method of protection of male masculinity.\n\nVarious psychoanalytic theories explain homophobia as a threat to an individual's own same-sex impulses, whether those impulses are imminent or merely hypothetical. This threat causes repression, denial or reaction formation.\n\nDisapproval of homosexuality and of gay people is not evenly distributed throughout society, but is more or less pronounced according to age, ethnicity, geographic location, race, sex, social class, education, partisan identification and religious status. According to UK HIV/AIDS charity AVERT, religious views, lack of homosexual feelings or experiences, and lack of interaction with gay people are strongly associated with such views.\n\nThe anxiety of heterosexual individuals (particularly adolescents whose construction of heterosexual masculinity is based in part on not being seen as gay) that others may identify them as gay has also been identified by Michael Kimmel as an example of homophobia. The taunting of boys seen as eccentric (and who are not usually gay) is said to be endemic in rural and suburban American schools, and has been associated with risk-taking behavior and outbursts of violence (such as a spate of school shootings) by boys seeking revenge or trying to assert their masculinity. Homophobic bullying is also very common in schools in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn some cases, the works of authors who merely have the word \"Gay\" in their name (Gay Talese, Peter Gay) or works about things also contain the name (\"Enola Gay\") have been destroyed because of a perceived pro-homosexual bias.\n\nIn the United States, attitudes about people who are homosexual may vary on the basis of partisan identification. Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to have negative attitudes about people who are gay and lesbian, according to surveys conducted by the National Election Studies from 2000 through 2004. This disparity is shown in the graph on the right, which is from a book published in 2008 by Joseph Fried. The tendency of Republicans to view gay and lesbian people negatively could be based on homophobia, religious beliefs, or conservatism with respect to the traditional family.\n\nHomophobia also varies by region; statistics show that the Southern United States has more reports of anti-gay prejudice than any other region in the US.\n\nIn a 1998 address, author, activist, and civil rights leader Coretta Scott King stated that \"Homophobia is like racism and anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry in that it seeks to dehumanize a large group of people, to deny their humanity, their dignity and personhood.\" One study of white adolescent males conducted at the University of Cincinnati by Janet Baker has been used to argue that negative feelings towards gay people are also associated with other discriminatory behaviors. According to the study, hatred of gay people, anti-Semitism, and racism are \"likely companions.\" Baker hypothesized \"maybe it's a matter of power and looking down on all you think are at the bottom.\" A study performed in 2007 in the UK for the charity Stonewall reports that up to 90 percent of the population support anti-discrimination laws protecting gay and lesbian people.\n\nSocial constructs and culture can perpetuate homophobic attitudes. Such cultural sources in the black community include:\n\nSources of homophobia in the white community include:\n\nProfessional sports in many countries involves homophobic expressions by star athletes and by fans. Incidents in the United States have included:\n\nHowever, the major professional sports leagues do not advocate homophobia, and regard the LGBT community as an important marketing base.\n\nThere are at least two studies which indicate that homophobia may have a negative economic impact for the countries where it is widespread. In these countries there is a flight of their LGBT populations —with the consequent loss of talent—, as well as an avoidance of LGBT tourism, that leaves the pink money in LGBT-friendlier countries. As an example, LGBT tourists contribute 6,800 million dollars every year to the Spanish economy.\n\nAs soon as 2005, an editorial from the \"New York Times\" related the politics of \"don't ask, don't tell\" in the US Army with the lack of translators from Arabic, and with the delay in the translation of Arabic documents, calculated to be about 120,000 hours at the time. Since 1998, with the introduction of the new policy, about 20 Arabic translators had been expelled from the Army, specifically during the years the US was involved in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nM. V. Lee Badgett, an economist at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, presented in March 2014 in a meeting of the World Bank the results of a study about the economical impact of homophobia in India. Only in health expenses, caused by depression, suicide, and HIV treatment, India would have spent additional 23,100 million dollars due to homophobia. On top, there would be costs caused by violence, workplace loss, rejection of the family, and bullying at school, that would result in a lower education level, lower productivity, lower wages, worse health, and a lower life expectancy among the LGBT population. In total, she estimated for 2014 in India a loss of up to 30,800 million dollars, or 1,7 % of the Indian GDP.\n\nThe LGBT activist Adebisi Alimi, in a preliminary estimation, has calculated that the economic loss due to homophobia in Nigeria is about 1% of its GDP. Taking into account that in 2015 homosexuality is still illegal in 36 of the 54 African countries, the money loss due to homophobia in the continent could amount to hundreds of millions of dollars every year.\n\nA study had been conducted regarding socioecological measurement of homophobia for all countries and its public health impact for 158 countries. They had found that prejudice against gay people the economic cost is $119.1 billion of GDP in worldwide. They had found Asian economical loss is 88.29 billion dollar for homophobia and for 8.04 billion dollar for latin America & Caribbean. Economical cost of East Asia and middle asia is 10.85 billion dollar. Economical cost of Middle East and North Africa is 16.92 billion dollar. The researcher suggested that 1% decrease in the level of homophobia is associated with a 10% increase in the gross domestic product per capita.\n\nMost international human rights organizations, such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, condemn laws that make homosexual relations between consenting adults a crime. Since 1994, the United Nations Human Rights Committee has also ruled that such laws violated the right to privacy guaranteed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In 2008, the Roman Catholic Church issued a statement which \"urges States to do away with criminal penalties against [homosexual persons].\" The statement, however, was addressed to reject a resolution by the UN Assembly that would have precisely called for an end of penalties against homosexuals in the world. In March 2010, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation on measures to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity, described by CoE Secretary General as the first legal instrument in the world dealing specifically with one of the most long-lasting and difficult forms of discrimination to combat.\n\nTo combat homophobia, the LGBT community uses events such as gay pride parades and political activism (\"See gay pride).\" This is criticized by some as counter-productive though, as gay pride parades showcase what could be seen as more \"extreme\" sexuality: fetish-based and gender-variant aspects of LGBT culture. One form of organized resistance to homophobia is the International Day Against Homophobia (or IDAHO), first celebrated May 17, 2005 in related activities in more than 40 countries. The four largest countries of Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Colombia) developed mass media campaigns against homophobia since 2002.\n\nIn addition to public expression, legislation has been designed, controversially, to oppose homophobia, as in hate speech, hate crime, and laws against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Successful preventative strategies against homophobic prejudice and bullying in schools have included teaching pupils about historical figures who were gay, or who suffered discrimination because of their sexuality.\n\nSome argue that anti-LGBT prejudice is immoral and goes above and beyond the effects on that class of people. Warren J. Blumenfeld argues that this emotion gains a dimension beyond itself, as a tool for extreme right-wing conservatives and fundamentalist religious groups and as a restricting factor on gender-relations as to the weight associated with performing each role accordingly. Furthermore, Blumenfeld in particular stated:\n\nDrawing upon research by Arizona State University Professor Elizabeth Segal, University of Memphis professors Robin Lennon-Dearing and Elena Delavega argued in a 2016 article published in the \"Journal of Homosexuality\" that homophobia could be reduced through exposure (learning about LGBT experiences), explanation (understanding the different challenges faced by LGBT people), and experience (putting themselves in situations experienced by LGBT people by working alongside LGBT co-workers or volunteering at an LGBT community center).\n\nResearchers have proposed alternative terms to describe prejudice and discrimination against LGBT people. Some of these alternatives show more semantic transparency while others do not include -\"phobia\":\n\n\nPeople and groups have objected to the use of the term \"homophobia\".\n\nUse of \"homophobia\", \"homophobic\", and \"homophobe\" has been criticized as pejorative against LGBT rights opponents. Behavioral scientists William O'Donohue and Christine Caselles stated in 1993 that \"as [\"homophobia\"] is usually used, [it] makes an illegitimately pejorative evaluation of certain open and debatable value positions, much like the former disease construct of homosexuality\" itself, arguing that the term may be used as an \"ad hominem\" argument against those who advocate values or positions of which the user does not approve. Philosopher Gary Colwell stated in 1999 that \"the boundary of the term 'homophobia' is made so elastic that it can stretch around, not just phobias, but every kind of rational fear as well; and not just around every kind of fear, but also around every critical posture or idea that anyone may have about the practice of homosexuality\".\n\nIn 2012 the Associated Press Stylebook was revised to advise against using non-clinical words with the suffix -phobia, including homophobia, in \"political and social contexts.\" AP Deputy Standards Editor Dave Minthorn said the word homophobia suggests a severe mental disorder, and that it could be substituted with \"anti-gay\" or similar phrasing. The AP's decision was criticized in some media outlets, especially those in the LGBT area, who argued that homophobia did not necessarily have to be interpreted in a strict clinical sense.\n\nThe term \"heterophobia\" is sometimes used to describe reverse discrimination or negative attitudes towards heterosexual people and opposite-sex relationships. The scientific use of \"heterophobia\" in sexology is restricted to few researchers, notably those who question Alfred Kinsey's sex research. To date, the existence or extent of heterophobia is mostly unrecognized by sexologists. Beyond sexology there is no consensus as to the meaning of the term because it is also used to mean \"fear of the opposite\" such as in Pierre-André Taguieff's \"The Force of Prejudice: On Racism and Its Doubles\" (2001).\n\nReferring to the debate on both meaning and use, SUNY lecturer Raymond J. Noonan, in his 1999 presentation to The Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS) and the American Association of Sex Educators, Counselors, and Therapists (AASECT) Conference, states:\n\nThe term heterophobia is confusing for some people for several reasons. On the one hand, some look at it as just another of the many me-too social constructions that have arisen in the pseudoscience of victimology in recent decades. (Many of us recall John Money’s 1995 criticism of the ascendancy of victimology and its negative impact on sexual science.) Others look at the parallelism between heterophobia and homophobia, and suggest that the former trivializes the latter... For others, it is merely a curiosity or parallel-construction word game. But for others still, it is part of both the recognition and politicization of heterosexuals' cultural interests in contrast to those of gays—particularly where those interests are perceived to clash.\n\nStephen M. White and Louis R. Franzini introduced the related term \"heteronegativism\" to refer to the considerable range of negative feelings that some gay individuals may hold and express toward heterosexuals. This term is preferred to \"heterophobia\" because it does not imply extreme or irrational fear.\n\n"}
{"id": "31529144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31529144", "title": "Hyperhydricity", "text": "Hyperhydricity\n\nHyperhydricity (previously known as vitrification) is a physiological malformation that results in excessive hydration, low lignification, impaired stomatal function and reduced mechanical strength of tissue culture-generated plants. The consequence is poor regeneration of such plants without intensive greenhouse acclimation for outdoor growth. Additionally, it may also lead to leaf-tip and bud necrosis in some cases, which often leads to loss of apical dominance in the shoots. In general, the main symptom of hyperhydricity is translucent characteristics signified by a shortage of chlorophyll and high water content. Specifically, the presence of a thin or absent cuticular layer, reduced number of palisade cells, irregular stomata, less developed cell wall and large intracellular spaces in the mesophyll cell layer have been described as some of the anatomic changes associated with hyperhydricity.\n\nThe main causes of hyperhydricity in plant tissue culture are those factors triggering oxidative stresses such as high salt concentration, high relative humidity, low light intensity, gas accumulation in the atmosphere of the jar, length of time intervals between subcultures; number of subcultures, concentration and type of gelling agent, the type of explants used, the concentrations of microelement and hormonal imbalances. Hyperhydricity is commonly apparent in liquid culture-grown plants or when there is low concentration of gelling agent. High ammonium concentration also contributes to hyperhydricity.\n\nHyperhydricity can be monitored by modifying the atmosphere of the culture vessels. Adjusting the relative humidity in the vessel is one of the most important parameters to be controlled. Use of gas-permeable membranes may help in this regard as this allows increased exchange of water vapor and other gases such as ethylene with the surrounding environment. Using higher concentration of a gelling agent, on top of the use of a higher-strength gelling agent may reduce the risk from hyperhydricity. Hyperhydricity can also be controlled by bottom cooling, which allows water to condense on the medium, the use of cytokinin-meta-topolin (6-(3-Hydroxybenzylamino)purine)</9>, the combination of lower cytokinin and ammonium nitrate in the medium, use of nitrate or glutamine as the sole nitrogen source and decreasing the ratio of NH4+:NO3- in the medium.\nIn studies on calcium deficiency in tissue cultures of \"Lavandula angustifolia\", it was shown that an increase in calcium in the medium reduced hyperhydricity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2381640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2381640", "title": "Inclusion bodies", "text": "Inclusion bodies\n\nInclusion bodies, sometimes called elementary bodies, are nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of stable substances, usually proteins. They typically represent sites of viral multiplication in a bacterium or a eukaryotic cell and usually consist of viral capsid proteins. Inclusion bodies can also be hallmarks of genetic diseases, as in the case of neuronal inclusion bodies in disorders like frontotemporal dementia and Parkinson's disease.\n\nInclusion bodies contain very little host protein, ribosomal components or DNA/RNA fragments. They often almost exclusively contain the over expressed protein and aggregation in inclusion bodies has been reported to be reversible. It has been suggested that inclusion bodies are dynamic structures formed by an unbalanced equilibrium between aggregated and soluble proteins of \"Escherichia coli\". There is a growing body of information indicating that formation of inclusion bodies occurs as a result of intracellular accumulation of partially folded expressed proteins which aggregate through non-covalent hydrophobic or ionic interactions or a combination of both.\n\nInclusion bodies are dense electron-refractile particles of aggregated protein found in both the cytoplasmic and periplasmic spaces of \"E. coli\" during high-level expression of heterologous protein. It is generally assumed that high level expression of non-native protein (higher than 2% of cellular protein) and highly hydrophobic protein is more prone to lead to accumulation as inclusion bodies in \"E. coli\". In the case of proteins having disulfide bonds, formation of protein aggregates as inclusion bodies is anticipated since the reducing environment of bacterial cytosol inhibits the formation of disulfide bonds. The diameter of spherical bacterial inclusion bodies varies from 0.5–1.3 μm and the protein aggregates have either an amorphous or paracrystalline nature depending on the localization. Inclusion bodies have higher density (~1.3 mg ml) than many of the cellular components, and thus can be easily separated by high-speed centrifugation after cell disruption. Inclusion bodies despite being dense particles are highly hydrated and have a porous architecture.\n\nInclusion bodies have a non-unit lipid membrane. Protein inclusion bodies are classically thought to contain misfolded protein. However, this has recently been contested, as green fluorescent protein will sometimes fluoresce in inclusion bodies, which indicates some resemblance of the native structure and researchers have recovered folded protein from inclusion bodies.\n\nWhen genes from one organism are expressed in another organism the resulting protein sometimes forms inclusion bodies. This is often true when large evolutionary distances are crossed: a cDNA isolated from Eukarya for example, and expressed as a recombinant gene in a prokaryote risks the formation of the inactive aggregates of protein known as inclusion bodies. While the cDNA may properly code for a translatable mRNA, the protein that results will emerge in a foreign microenvironment. This often has fatal effects, especially if the intent of cloning is to produce a biologically active protein. For example, eukaryotic systems for carbohydrate modification and membrane transport are not found in prokaryotes. The internal microenvironment of a prokaryotic cell (pH, osmolarity) may differ from that of the original source of the gene. Mechanisms for folding a protein may also be absent, and hydrophobic residues that normally would remain buried may be exposed and available for interaction with similar exposed sites on other ectopic proteins. Processing systems for the cleavage and removal of internal peptides would also be absent in bacteria. The initial attempts to clone insulin in a bacterium suffered all of these deficits. In addition, the fine controls that may keep the concentration of a protein low will also be missing in a prokaryotic cell, and overexpression can result in filling a cell with ectopic protein that, even if it were properly folded, would precipitate by saturating its environment.\n\nExamples of viral inclusion bodies in animals are\n\nIntracytoplasmic eosinophilic (acidophilic)-\n\nIntranuclear eosinophilic (acidophilic)-\n\nIntranuclear basophilic-\nBoth intranuclear and intracytoplasmic-\n\nExamples of viral inclusion bodies in plants include aggregations of virus particles (like those for \"Cucumber mosaic virus\") and aggregations of viral proteins (like the cylindrical inclusions of potyviruses). Depending on the plant and the plant virus family these inclusions can be found in epidermal cells, mesophyll cells, and stomatal cells when plant tissue is properly stained.\n\nNormally a red blood cell does not contain inclusions in the cytoplasm. However, it may be seen because of certain hematologic disorders.\n\nThere are three kinds of erythrocyte inclusions:\n\nPolyhydroxyalkanoates or PHA are produced by bacteria as inclusion bodies, the size of PHA granules are limited in \"E. coli\", due to its small bacterial size. Bacterial cell's inclusion bodies are not as abundant intracellularly, in comparison to eukaryotic cells.\n\n70-80% of recombinant proteins expressed \"E. coli\" are contained in inclusion bodies (i.e., protein aggregates). The purification of the expressed proteins from inclusion bodies usually require two main steps: extraction of inclusion bodies from the bacteria followed by the solubilisation of the purified inclusion bodies. The use of recombinant proteins can be used to find the mass of misfolding proteins, with the use of mass spectrometry\n\n\"Pseudo-inclusions\" are invaginations of the cytoplasm into the cell nuclei, which may give the appearance of intranuclear inclusions. They may appear in papillary thyroid carcinoma.\n\n"}
{"id": "949904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949904", "title": "Jakob von Uexküll", "text": "Jakob von Uexküll\n\nJakob Johann Baron von Uexküll (; 8 September 1864 – 25 July 1944) was a Baltic German biologist who worked in the fields of muscular physiology, animal behaviour studies, and the cybernetics of life. However, his most notable contribution is the notion of \"Umwelt\", used by semiotician Thomas Sebeok and philosopher Martin Heidegger. His works established biosemiotics as a field of research.\n\nThe son of Alexander Baron von Uexküll and Sophie von Hahn, Jakob von Uexküll was born in the Keblas estate, Mihkli, Governorate of Estonia. His aristocratic family lost most of their fortune by expropriation during the Russian Revolution. Needing to support himself, Uexküll took a job as professor at the University of Hamburg where he founded the \"Institut für Umweltforschung\".\n\nUexküll was particularly interested in how living beings perceive their environment(s). He argued that organisms experience life in terms of species-specific, spatio-temporal, 'self-in-world' subjective reference frames that he called \"Umwelt\" (translated as \"surrounding-world\", \"phenomenal world\", \"self-world\", \"environment\" - lit. German \"environment\"). These \"Umwelten\" (plural of \"Umwelt\") are distinctive from what Uexküll termed the \"Umgebung\" which would be the living being's surroundings as seen from the likewise peculiar perspective or \"Umwelt\" of the human observer. \"Umwelt\" may thus be defined as the perceptual world in which an organism exists and acts as a subject. By studying how the senses of various organisms like ticks, sea urchins, amoebae, jellyfish and sea worms work, he was able to build theories of how they experience the world. Because all organisms perceive and react to sensory data as signs, Uexküll argued that they were to be considered as living subjects. This argument was the basis for his biological theory in which the characteristics of biological existence (\"life\") could not simply be described as a sum of its non-organic parts, but had to be described as subject and a part of a sign system.\n\nThe biosemiotic turn in Jakob von Uexküll's analysis occurs in his discussion of the animal's relationship with its environment. The \"Umwelt\" is for him an environment-world which is (according to Giorgio Agamben), \"constituted by a more or less broad series of elements [called] \"carriers of significance\" or \"marks\" which are the only things that interest the animal\". Agamben goes on to paraphrase one example from Uexküll's discussion of a tick, saying,\n\"...this eyeless animal finds the way to her watchpoint [at the top of a tall blade of grass] with the help of only its skin’s general sensitivity to light. The approach of her prey becomes apparent to this blind and deaf bandit only through her sense of smell. The odor of butyric acid, which emanates from the sebaceous follicles of all mammals, works on the tick as a signal that causes her to abandon her post (on top of the blade of grass/bush) and fall blindly downward toward her prey. If she is fortunate enough to fall on something warm (which she perceives by means of an organ sensible to a precise temperature) then she has attained her prey, the warm-blooded animal, and thereafter needs only the help of her sense of touch to find the least hairy spot possible and embed herself up to her head in the cutaneous tissue of her prey. She can now slowly suck up a stream of warm blood.\"\nThus, for the tick, the \"Umwelt\" is reduced to only three (biosemiotic) carriers of significance: (1) The odor of butyric acid, which emanates from the sebaceous follicles of all mammals, (2) The temperature of 37 degrees Celsius (corresponding to the blood of all mammals), (3) The hairiness of mammals.\n\nvon Uexküll anticipated many computer science ideas, particularly in the field of robotics, roughly 25 years before these things were invented.\n\nUexküll views organisms in terms of information processing. He argues every organism has an outer boundary which defines an Umwelt (German word generally meaning 'environment', 'surrounding world'). Rather than the general meaning, Uexküll's concept draws on the literal meaning of the German word, which is 'surround-world', to define the Umwelt as the subjectively perceived surroundings about which information is available to an organism through its senses. This is a subjective \"weltanschauung\", or \"world view\", and is therefore fundamentally different from the black box concept, which is derived from the objective Newtonian viewpoint.\n\nThe organism has sensors that report the state of the \"Umwelt\" and effectors that can change parts of the \"Umwelt\". He distinguished the effector as the logical opposite of the sensor, or sense organ. Sensors and effectors are linked in a feedback loop. Sensor input is processed by a \"Merkorgan\" and effectors are controlled by a \"Werkorgan\". The modern term 'sensorimotor' used in enactive theories of cognition encompasses these concepts.\n\nHe further distinguishes the \"Umgebung\" (that part of the \"Umwelt\" that represents distal features of the external world, in German 'that which is being given as surroundings') from the Innenwelt which is reported directly by sensors and is therefore the only unmediated reality immediately knowable to the organism. The relationship between the distal (mediated, transformed) features of the Umbegung and the proximal (untransformed, unmediated, primal) features of the Innenwelt must be learned by the organism in infancy. The nature of the Umbegung::Innenwelt relationship is relevant to the later theories of Embodied cognition.\n\nThis is also similar to Kant's phenomenon and noumenon but derived logically from the properties of the sensors. What we now call a \"feedback loop\" he calls a \"function-circle\" and \"circle\" seems to be something like \"system\". He uses the term \"melody\" to mean something close to \"algorithm\". He coins around 75 technical terms, and a proper understanding of his book would require clearly defining them in modern terms and understanding their relations. He notices qualia, comes close to object-oriented programming (page 98) uses the image of a helmsman which later showed up as \"cybernetics\" (page 291) and makes a good guess about DNA (page 127). He has a large number of ideas, although not expressed clearly in modern terms. His metaphysics is hyper-Kantian (\"All reality is subjective appearance\", page xv.) Space is a set of direction symbols. He rejects Darwin and says nothing of God. Organisms are based on something called \"Plan\", the origin of which we cannot know.\n\nUexküll was an advocate of non-Darwinian evolution and critic of Darwinism. Kalevi Kull noted that \"despite his opposition to Darwinism, Uexküll was not anti-evolutionist\".\n\nWorks by scholars such as Kalevi Kull connect Uexküll's studies with some areas of philosophy such as phenomenology and hermeneutics. Jakob von Uexküll is also considered a pioneer of semiotic biology, or biosemiotics. However, despite his influence (on the work of philosophers Max Scheler, Ernst Cassirer, Martin Heidegger, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Humberto Maturana, Georges Canguilhem, Michel Foucault, Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari (in their \"A Thousand Plateaus\"), for example) he is still not widely known, and his books are mostly out of print in German and in English. A paperback French translation of \"Streifzüge durch die Umwelten von Tieren und Menschen\" [A stroll through the Umwelten of animals and humans] of 1934 is currently in print. This book has been translated in English as \"A Foray into the Worlds of Animals and Humans, with A Theory of Meaning\" by Jakob von Uexküll, translated by Joseph D. O'Neil, introduction by Dorion Sagan, University of Minnesota Press, 2011. The other available book is \"Theoretical Biology\", a reprint of the 1926 translation of \"Theoretische Biologie\" (1920). \"Foray\" is a popular introduction while \"Theoretical Biology\" is intended for an academic audience.\n\nHis sons were the physician Thure von Uexküll and journalist Gösta von Uexküll. His daughter was Sophie Luise Damajanti von Uexküll ('Dana'). His grandson is the writer Jakob von Uexkull.\n\nUexküll's ideas about how organisms create their own concept of time are described in Peter Høeg's novel \"Borderliners\", and contrasted with Isaac Newton's view of time as something that exists independent of life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44939634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44939634", "title": "John Shannon Munn", "text": "John Shannon Munn\n\nJohn Shannon Munn (6 June 1880 – 24 February 1918) was a prominent early-20th-century Newfoundlander. The step-son of Sir Edgar Bowring, he rose to become managing director of Bowring Brothers, but died in the wreck of the SS \"Florizel\" in 1918, along with his three-year-old daughter, Betty. Munn had also been a talented cricketer in his youth, and is one of the few Newfoundlanders to play at first-class level, having played in England for Oxford University.\n\nJohn Shannon Munn was born in 1880 in Harbour Grace, Newfoundland, into a prominent local family. The company established by his Scottish-born grandfather, John Munn, owned several boats in Newfoundland's sealing and fishing fleets, and also owned Harbour Grace's newspaper and main store. Following the elder Munn's retirement in 1878, his son (John Shannon Munn's father), William Panton Munn, assumed management of the company together with his cousin, Robert Stewart Munn. William Munn died in 1882 and his widow, born Flora LeMessurier Clift, remarried in 1888 to Edgar Rennie Bowring, scion of another merchant family.\n\nBowring (later Sir Edgar) later became a director at Bowring Brothers (established by his grandfather, Benjamin Bowring), and John Shannon Munn became his protege at the firm after completing his education. Munn initially attended the Church of England College in St. John's (now Bishop Feild College), but was sent to England for further schooling, as had his step-father. From 1894, he attended the Forest School, a public school in Walthamstow, Essex.\n\nCricket had become reasonably popular in Newfoundland by the late 19th century, but died out following the First World War. Munn was likely introduced to the sport on the island, and continued playing at the Forest School, where he was a regular in the school first XI. In his last season at the school, in 1899, he took 55 wickets at an average of 13.96. \"Wisden\", in its coverage of public schools cricket, noted especially his performance against Epsom College, where he took a five-wicket haul and scored a half-century to help Forest School to a 220-run victory.\n\nGoing on to Hertford College, Oxford, Munn played in two trial matches for Oxford University Cricket Club prior to the start of the 1900 season, taking a five-wicket haul in both games. Despite this form, he did not make his debut for the first XI until Oxford's fourth first-class match of the season, likely due to his status as a first-year student. On debut against Somerset in June 1900, Munn opened the bowling with Harold White, with his teammates including Bernard Bosanquet, and, Tip Foster, a future England captain. He took the wickets of four top-order batsmen in Somerset's first innings, finishing with 4/53.\n\nDespite his earlier performances, Munn failed to make the Oxford team for the annual match against Cambridge University. Instead of playing for a County Championship side later in the season, like many of his teammates, he returned to Newfoundland for the rest of the summer. There, Munn played in the local St. John's league. In late August 1900, he turned out for a St. John's representative side in two games against an I Zingari team from Boston. He took figures of 8/17 in the second of those matches, which was attended by around 1,200 people. Back at Oxford for the 1901 season, Munn performed poorly in pre-season trial matches, but was in the first XI for Oxford's third first-class fixture of the season, against Surrey in late May. Usually batting at number eleven, following a series of not out innings, he was promoted to open the batting in a second fixture against Surrey, played in late June. He scored only 11 runs, and was back at number eleven for the next match, against Sussex. Unlike the previous season, Munn was selected for the 1901 Oxford–Cambridge fixture, played at Lord's. In the match, which was to be his last at first-class level, he took only a single wicket, finishing his season with 11 wickets from six games.\n\nMunn returned to Newfoundland at the end of 1901, having never graduated from Oxford, or received his Blue. He finished his first-class career with 24 wickets from 10 matches, at an average of 29.62. Two of his step-father's second cousins also played cricket at high levels—William Bowring played for Barbados and the West Indies, and his brother, Frank Harvey Bowring, Oxford-educated like Munn, played for Liverpool and District, though never at first-class level. Munn is one of only three first-class cricketers known to have been born in Newfoundland, the others being William Bowring and Stuart Pitts, who briefly played for Middlesex.\n\nHaving risen to become a director of his step-father's company, in January 1908 Munn married Alice May McGowen, the daughter of John Roche McGowen, the Inspector-General (chief officer) of the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary. The wedding, officiated by the Bishop of Newfoundland, Llewellyn Jones, was held at the Cathedral of St. John the Baptist in St. John's, and attended by a number prominent Newfoundlanders. A reception was held at Government House, the official residence of the Governor of Newfoundland. The couple had one daughter together, Elizabeth Shannon Munn (known as Betty), born in 1914.\n\nAged 34, Munn was too old to enlist during the First World War, but served as treasurer of a committee established to fund the volunteer Newfoundland Regiment, which saw service in France throughout the war. By 1918, he had succeeded his step-father as managing director of Bowring Brothers. Early in that year, he booked passage from St. John's to New York City via Halifax, aboard the SS \"Florizel\", a passenger liner employed by his company's Red Cross Line. He was accompanied by his three-year-old daughter and her nursemaid, Constance Trenchard. His wife was already in New York, and the family planned to vacation in Florida for two months. On the night of 23 February, shortly after leaving St. John's, \"Florizel\" met a blizzard near Cape Race. Due to a navigational error, the ship's captain, William J. Martin, turned westward well before passing the cape, causing her to founder offshore of Horn Head Point, close to Cappahayden. Munn, his daughter, and her nurse were killed, along with 91 others.\n\nAfter the deaths of his granddaughter and step-son, Sir Edgar Bowring commissioned several memorials in their honour. John Munn was commemorated by a stained-glass window at St. Thomas' Anglican Church, St. John's, as well as a park in Harbour Grace (Shannon Park) and new facilities for a St. John's orphanage (renamed the Shannon Munn Memorial). The most notable memorial, in honour of Betty Munn, was an exact replica of the statue of Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens, London, made by sculptor George Frampton from his original. The replica, standing in Bowring Park, St. John's, was unveiled in August 1925, inscribed \"In memory of a dear little girl who loved the Park\". Frampton believed the St. John's statue to be superior to the Kensington Gardens original, as \"the wholly natural surroundings and flowing river [were] more in keeping with the spirit of Peter\".\n"}
{"id": "42121800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121800", "title": "Joseph Wheeler Bloodgood", "text": "Joseph Wheeler Bloodgood\n\nJoseph Wheeler Bloodgood (May 15, 1926 – July 7, 1960) was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nBloodgood was born in Madison, Wisconsin. He attended the University of Wisconsin High School before graduating from the University of Wisconsin in 1948 and working for the United States Census Bureau in 1949 and 1950. In 1954, Bloodgood received his law degree from the University of Wisconsin Law School.\n\nDuring World War II and the Korean War, he served in the United States Navy.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1954 as a Democrat, Bloodgood was Coroner of Dane County, Wisconsin. Bloodgood was elected to the Assembly in 1954. He served as the Dane County District Attorney until April 1960, when he was elected to serve as Dane County's first Family Court Judge.\n\nHe committed suicide at a hospital in Madison, Wisconsin, where he was receiving psychiatric treatment.\n"}
{"id": "53132922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53132922", "title": "José Emeterio Rivas", "text": "José Emeterio Rivas\n\nJosé Emeterio Rivas (c. 1957 or '58 – April 6, 2003), a Colombian radio journalist and host of the talk show \"Las Fuerzas Vivas\" (Translated: \"Live Forces\") for Radio Calor Estéreo in Barrancabermeja, Magdalena Medio Antioquia, Colombia, was murdered along with another man by paramilitary. The case was unique because this journalist's murderers were convicted in the country, which is rare for cases of killed journalists.\n\nJosé Emeterio Rivas lived in Barrancabermeja, Colombia. He was 44 years old and a father of two children.\n\nAt one point, Rivas ran for senate where he acquired more than 8000 votes.\n\nRivas was a political radio journalist for the Radio Calor Estéreo. He hosted a morning public affairs show called \"Fuerzas Vivas\" (Translated: \"Live Forces\") with opinions about politics that critics found to be insulting to some Barrancabermeja politicians. On his program, Rivas accused the mayor of corruption and collaboration with members of the right-wing paramilitary group United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, known as the AUC. He had called the mayor a \"plunderer\".\n\nOn April 5, 2003, a day before his death, José Emeterio Rivas publicly accused the town's mayor Julio César Ardila Torres and other local politicians of corruption and collaboration with members of the right-wing paramilitary group AUC. It was said that Rivas called Ardila a \"plunderer\" in the television appearance.\n\nThe next day Rivas was murdered in Barrancabermeja but detectives found his corpse seven days after his killing in the same spot he had been shot, next to Colombia's Magdalena River. Rivas's body was alongside another body of a man by the name of Paolo César Montesinos, who was a 22-year-old college student majoring in Environmental Engineering at the University Institute of Peace. It is not known why these two bodies were found together. When Riva's body was found, there were four bullet holes in his abdomen, indicating that he probably died almost instantly.\n\nThere was an investigation after the bodies were found and it took them about ten years to finalize the case and send the men to prison that were involved.\n\nDiego Waldrón, a colleague to Rivas, told Committee to Protect Journalists that Rivas had received repeated death threats. It was after hearing this that the detectives linked some killers to Rivas's murder.\n\nThe mayor and his three collaborators, Fabio Pajón Lizcano, Abelardo Rueda Tobón, and Juan Pablo Ariza, who were a few of his high-up officials, had hired militia leaders to kill Rivas with the reward for $68,000. A militia leader by the name of Bedoya later admitted his participation as a material author in Riva's death. Ardila was sentenced to 28 years and eight months in prison and Lizcano and Tobón were each sentenced to 26 years and eight months in prison. Along with imprisonment, the mayor was also fined 1,192 million pesos (US $531,000).\n\nThe case continued in 2016, with the arrest of Elkin Bueno Altahona, a.k.a., \"Ernesto Báez,\" who was the mayor of Barrancabermeja mayor until 2015 and president of the Colombian Federation of Municipalities, on suspicion of being at a meeting where Rivas's murder was discussed and receiving financial support for one of his political campaigns.\n\nArmed paramilitary groups threaten journalists in Colombia and were hired for Riva's murder by the town's mayor at the time. This shows how easy it is for someone of power to hire a paramilitary group to do a job.\n\nDue to impunity, it is still dangerous for journalists in Colombia. Although they are doing their job by stating their political opinions, like Rivas when he called the mayor a \"plunderer\", there are very few cases reported that have been brought to justice after death threats and murders to a journalist.\n\nThe Rivas case affected Colombia because it was the first case of a journalist killing in a long time that someone was found responsible for the death. From 1994-2009 there were 57 journalists killed and of those 57, over 70 percent of them went unpunished.\n\nThe impunity, exemption from punishment, in Colombia is said to be one of the highest and is still a threat.\n\nThe Inter American Press Association found reason to be \"optimistic\" about the convictions in Rivas's case.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists released a statement after the case was resolved in the courts: \"We welcome the sentencing of these three former officials for plotting the murder of José Emeterio Rivas. This is the first time in recent Colombian history that the masterminds of a journalist's murder were effectively prosecuted and punished. We commend the attorney general's office and its human rights unit for taking this crucial step forward in the campaign to end impunity in the murders of journalists around the world.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42639996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42639996", "title": "Jpred", "text": "Jpred\n\nJpred v.4 is the latest version of the JPred Protein Secondary Structure Prediction Server which provides predictions by the JNet algorithm, one of the most accurate methods for secondary structure prediction, that has existed since 1998 in different versions.\n\nIn addition to protein secondary structure, JPred also makes predictions of solvent accessibility and coiled-coil regions. The JPred service runs up to 134 000 jobs per month and has carried out over 2 million predictions in total for users in 179 countries.\n\nThe current version of JPred (v4) has the following improvements and updates incorporated:\n\nThe JPred v3 followed on from previous versions of JPred developed and maintained by James Cuff and Jonathan Barber (see JPred References). This release added new functionality and fixed lots of bugs. The highlights are:\n\nThe static HTML pages of JPred 2 are still available for reference.\n\nSequence residues are categorised or assigned to one of the secondary structure elements, such as alpha-helix, beta-sheet and coiled-coil.\n\nJnet uses two neural networks for its prediction. The first network is fed with a window of 17 residues over each amino acid in the alignment plus a conservation number. It uses a hidden layer of nine nodes and has three output nodes, one for each secondary structure element.\nThe second network is fed with a window of 19 residues (the result of first network) plus the conservation number. It has a hidden layer with nine nodes and has three output nodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "42103648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42103648", "title": "Khelifa Belkacem", "text": "Khelifa Belkacem\n\nKhelifa Belkacem (1907 – November 4, 1951) was an Algerian singer.\n\nKhelifa Belkacem was born in 1907 in Koléa. His family moved to Staouéli near Algiers in 1911. At the age of nine he becomes fatherless. In 1935 he moves to Algiers which then housed prestigious names of the chaâbi \"chanson\" like El Hadj M'Hamed El Anka. He had learned the music profession in the streets of Staouéli. He wanted to compete with the giants of the era: El Hadj Menouar, Hadj Bouchiba, Hadj M'rizek and succeeded by starting up a young band to enliven family celebrations around Algiers.\n\nTo penetrate into the middle of chaâbi he left Staouéli to install at the Casbah where work did not lack but where the public was difficult. \nHis orchestra was composed of Moh Saghir Laama on oud, Belkaïd Abdelghani on alto violin, Mohamed Zerbout on darbuka, Hadj Omar on tar and Kaddour Cherchali, Mouloud Bahri and Ali Bousbia on banjos. Evenings dates at the circle of Chartres' place, or coffee \"Ismailia\" square Lavigerie (now up Benbadis) in the 1940s, during the holy month of Ramadan, were famous.\n\nPersistent, passionate, rigorous. He had a melodious voice and his \"Istikhbar\" (musical improvisation, vocal prelude improvised at tempo rubato) was a treat. He faced the \"bit siah wah\" genre without complex and other more difficult pieces. His mastering the art of Chaabi influenced singers of fame like Dahmane El Harrachi or Hsissen.\n\nHe left a television recording of the song Saki Baki (filmed by the French cinema in the 1940s and adopted by many artists like El Hachemi Guerouabi) that the Algerian television transmits from time to time. Radio also broadcasts songs he interpreted like \"Messaad dhek ennhar jani bachar\" (by the poet Abdelouahab), \"Daâni are menne lem Helti\" (by the poet Benali) and \"El bez ghebli.\"\n\nHe died on November 4, 1951 by bullets after a brawl at the Casbah, near his home, rue Darfour, at 44 years old. He is buried in the cemetery of Sidi M'hamed alongside Kaddour Cherchali a virtuoso banjo player that was part of his orchestra.\n\n"}
{"id": "10144073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10144073", "title": "Knapp's relational development model", "text": "Knapp's relational development model\n\nKnapp's relational development model portrays relationship development as a ten step process, broken into two phases. Created by and named after communication scholar Mark L. Knapp, the model suggests that all of the steps should be done one at a time, in sequence, to make sure they are effective. However, not every relationship will go through these stages of development in the same way. Compared to DeVito's six-stage model of relational development, Knapp's model is far more prescriptive and detailed, but also presupposes that the relationship will ultimately dissolve, as evident in the five \"coming apart\" stages that make up the second half of the model. However, Knapp himself has said that his model is also descriptive; the model describes what seems to happen, not necessarily what should happen. The model proposes that coming apart need not be seen as inherently bad, just as coming together need not be seen as inherently good.\n\nThe following stages are identified by the type of communication behavior that occurs in a given stage as well as the proportion of that type of communication behavior to another. In this case, proportion may constitute the frequency with which the acts occur or to the relative weight given to certain acts by those involved.\n\n\"Initiation\" is the first stage where individuals make their first impressions on each other. While a lot of important impressions are being processed, the actual initiation stage likely lasts less than 15 seconds. In this stage, individuals are trying to display their best selves. Also, we are observing the other person to learn about them and, therefore, reduce our own uncertainty. Physical appearance often plays a big role in this stage when it comes to forming first impressions.\n\nThe methods and messages used to initiate communication vary based on:\n\n\n\"Experimentation\" is the stage where individuals begin to engage in self-disclosure to learn information about each other. The individuals use this stage to explore and get a feel for the relationship as well as one another. Small talk is a common form of communication in this stage, as both parties use it to search for an area of common interest of experience. At this stage, relationships are generally pleasant, casual, and uncritical. Knapp has long emphasized that most relationships will not progress past this stage.\n\nDuring the \"intensifying\" stage of Knapp's model, the two individuals will continue experimentations to determine whether there is mutual emotional affection and attachment. Whereas in the previous experimentation phase, conversation focused more on superficial topics such as discovering shared areas of interest and commonalities, in the intensifying stage the level of self-disclosure deepens. The breadth of topics discussed broadens and the depth in which each individual feels comfortable discussing those topics with the other becomes intimate and personal.\n\nIn this stage, certain behaviors, such as increasing one-on-one contact through more frequent communication (through face to face encounters, text, or phone calls), doing favors for a partner or offering gifts as tokens of affection, requesting commitment from a partner through direct definitional bid, personalized verbal expressions of affection such as \"I love you\" or assigning pet names such as \"babe,\" and suggestive actions such as flirtation, gazing, or touching, may all emerge as methods of intensifying the connection between the two people.\n\nEssential to the intensifying stage are \"secret tests\" performed by each individual to ascertain whether his or her overtures are actually helpful in their intensification efforts. These tests most often manifest themselves through:\n\n\nWhile all five of these methods are common methods of testing intensification efforts, it's important to note that endurance, separation, and triangle tests are generally the least constructive, and can even be destructive when it comes to building the relationship.\n\nOnce each individual feels confident, through their various intensification efforts, that mutual affection has been confirmed, the couple may begin to transition into the \"integration\" stage of their relationship. In addition to bonding, the integration stage makes up maintenance stage of a relationship. During this stage, the couple is fused and elements of their respective social identities, such as friends, belongings, and living spaces, are now shared. Other verbal and nonverbal manifestations of the integration include the couple seeing their relationship as special or unique in some way, the exchange of \"trophies\" for the other to wear or display, and potentially similarities in manner, dress, and verbal behavior can be seen. Today, another indicator of integration can be seen on social media sites where partners can be seen in each other's profile picture. Additionally, the exclusive commitment each partner has for the other is generally solidified in this stage through even deeper self-disclosure and revealing of secrets, sex, and discussion of future plans.\n\nThe final stage of the coming together half of the relational model is \"bonding\". This stage puts the relationship on public display and suggests that the relationship is exclusive. This stage often involves marriage or another type of public contract, though marriage is not necessary to successfully bond. There is usually a turning point that happens in this stage that signals a change in the relationship, making the relationship intimate. Reaching this stage does not guarantee that the relationship will remain bonded, though many intimate relationships will remain in this stage until divorce, death, or another type of separation.\n\nAlong with the coming together stages, all relationships will go through the coming apart stages of the relational development model, though some may skip steps (e.g. a sudden death terminating the relationship).\n\n\"Differentiating\" is a process of disengaging or uncoupling. During this stage, differences between the relationship partners are emphasized and what was thought to be similarities begins to disintegrate. Instead of working together, partners quickly begin to become more individualistic in their attitudes. Conflict is a common form of communication during this stage; oftentimes, it acts as a way to test how much the other can tolerate something that may threaten the relationship. Knapp believes that differentiating can be the result of bonding too quickly; meaning, sufficient breadth and depth (see: Social penetration theory) was not established during the previous stages. However, differentiating is expected to happen in romantic relationships. A common solution to differentiating is for each partner to give the other some space, though extreme differentiating can lead to a damaged relationship.\n\n\"Circumscribing\" sees a qualitative and quantitative decrease in information exchange. Communication is limited to safe topics. This stage is marked by less total communication in terms of number of interactions, depth and breadth of topics discussed, and communication occurs in shorter durations. Expressions of love and commitment also decrease.\n\nIn the \"stagnation\" stage, what were once patterns in the relationship become ruts and people feel stuck or trapped in the relationship. Communication in this stage sees partners saying very little because they \"know\" how the other person will respond. Individuals will engage in imagined interactions to predict a conversation with their partner. These imaginary dialogues can be either narratives (\"I'll say this, and then she'll say this...\") or perceived actual dialogues (\"I'll do it.\" \"You don't have to.\").\n\nAt this stage, there is still some hope that the relationship can be revived. However, in many cases there are too many costs accumulating and, therefore, most do not stay at this stage for long. A key reason why individuals stay in this stage is to avoid the pain associated with terminating the relationship.\n\nWhile the stagnation stage sees partners continue to inhabit the same environment, the \"avoidance\" stage sees partners exist in separate physical environments. When actual avoidance cannot take place, however, partners will simply avoid each other while they're together, treating the other as if they didn't exist. Essentially, the individuals in the relationship become separate from one another physically, emotionally, and mentally. When there is communication, it is often marked by antagonism or unfriendliness (\"I just don't want to see or talk to you\"). In addition to not spending time with one another, they both begin to avoid the other person's needs and start to focus solely on themselves.\n\nDifferent forms of distancing are also common at this stage:\n\n\nDuring the \"termination\" stage, both people that were in the relationship decide to end their connection with one another. No longer are they both receiving a mutually satisfying outcome from being with one another. Neither one of them is happy and the relationship must come to an end. In this model, this step is unavoidable and relationships can terminate at any time. Termination can occur due to physical separation, growing socially or psychologically apart, or the death of one of the partners. Communication in this stage is marked by distance (an attempt to put psychological and physical barriers between partners) and disassociation (messages that prepare one or both parties for their life without the other).\n\nAccording to Knapp, movement through the stages has the following characteristics:\n\n\nIn an effort to determine which stage partners are in, Welch and Rubin (2002) gave partners a list of behaviors and asked them to indicate the extent to which each behavior was characteristic of their relationship. Welch and Rubin also found that the relational development model was useful for describing the development of task or business relationships.\n\nAccording to Knapp, rate of movement is:\n\n"}
{"id": "8633994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8633994", "title": "Liberty (dog)", "text": "Liberty (dog)\n\nHonor's Foxfire Liberty Hume (February 8, 1974 – 1984) (AKC Registration Number SB578950) was the Golden Retriever Presidential pet of Betty Ford and Gerald Ford. Liberty was born February 8, 1974 and given to the president as an 8-month-old puppy by his daughter Susan Ford and new White House photographer David Hume Kennerly in the fall of 1974. The breeder of the dark gold pup was Ann (Avis) Friberg of Mount Vernon, Washington.\n\nLiberty was frequently photographed with Ford in the Oval Office, in the swimming pool at Camp David and on the South Lawn of the White House. She also had a litter of pups in the White House on September 14, 1975, one of which – Misty – was kept by Ford. At one point Ford was locked in a White House stairwell after returning from walking the dog on the South Lawn early one morning. Photographs of the dog were autographed with a rubber stamp of her paw print. Stories indicated that if Ford wanted to end a conversation in the Oval Office he would signal Liberty and she would go to the guest wagging her tail creating a natural break.\n\nFord discussed the dog in a speech on October 9, 1974 in a tribute to William Scranton in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5946515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5946515", "title": "Lindow Woman", "text": "Lindow Woman\n\nLindow Woman is the name given to the partial remains of a female bog body, discovered in a peat bog at Lindow Moss, near Wilmslow in Cheshire, England, on 13 May 1983 by commercial peat-cutters. The remains were largely a skull fragment, with soft tissue and hair attached, and were dated to the Roman period. It was more technically known Lindow I after another body was discovered in the same bog, which is identified as Lindow Man or Lindow II, the most extensive bog body yet found in England.\n\nThe bog body of Lindow I was discovered on 13 May 1983 by commercial peat cutters Andy Mould and Stephen Dooley. They first noticed an unusual item on the conveyor belt, which was similar in shape and size to a football. They took the object from the conveyor to examine it more closely. After they removed the adhesive remains of peat, they realized the incomplete preserved human head with attached remnants of soft tissue, brain, eye, optic nerve, and hair.\n\nThe police summoned by the Scouts suspected a crime, confiscated the remains and launched an investigation for murder. For over two decades, a local 57-year-old man Peter Reyn-Bardt, had been under suspicion of murdering his estranged wife, Malika de Fernandez, and of disposing of her body. \n\nWhen questioned, Reyn-Bardt assumed that the skull fragment came from his wife's body, saying, \"It has been so long I thought I would never be found out.\" Afterward, he made a full confession about how he had killed De Fernandez in June 1961, after she returned home, found that he was sharing the premises with another man, and attempted to extort Reyn-Bardt in return for not revealing his homosexuality (still criminalized under British law at the time). Reyn-Bardt subsequently dismembered De Fernandez's body and buried the pieces in a trench leading to the bog.\n\nReyn-Bardt was set for trial before Chester Crown Court in December 1983. By then, Carbon-14 dating of the skull fragment had returned a date of 1740 ± 80BP (c. 250 AD). Reyn-Bardt tried to revoke his confession, but he was still convicted of his wife's murder even though no trace of her own body was found.\n\nToday, only the bony remains of the skull from the discovery exist because of improper handling of evidence by the police. The remains of the skull were anthropologically known as probably belonging to a 30–50-year-old woman. Recent studies have however raised doubts about the sex of the individual. Another body was recovered in the area in 1987 and this was referred to as Lindow III. It was headless and some scientists believe that this was the body of the Lindow Woman. A theory described the killings of both Lindow I and II as ritual sacrifice attributed to the Celtic and Germanic enclaves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "552860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=552860", "title": "List of people who died of starvation", "text": "List of people who died of starvation\n\nThis is a list of notable people who died of starvation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2065586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065586", "title": "Lon McCallister", "text": "Lon McCallister\n\nHerbert Alonzo \"Lon\" McCallister Jr. (April 17, 1923 – June 11, 2005) was an American actor.\n\nBorn in Los Angeles, Lon McCallister began appearing in movies at the age of 13. He had uncredited appearances in \"Let's Sing Again\" (1936), \"Romeo and Juliet\" (1936), \"Stella Dallas\" (1937), \"Souls at Sea\" (1937), \"Make a Wish\" (1937), \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\" (1938), \"Judge Hardy's Children\" (1938), \"Lord Jeff\" (1938), \"That Certain Age\" (1938), \"Little Tough Guys in Society\" (1939), \"The Spirit of Culver\" (1939), \"Confessions of a Nazi Spy\" (1939), \"Babes in Arms\" (1939), \"First Love\" (1939), and \"Joe and Ethel Turp Call on the President\" (1939).\n\nMcCallister could also be glimpsed in \"Susan and God\" (1940), \"Henry Aldrich for President\" (1941), \"Dangerously They Live\" (1941), \"Always in My Heart\" (1942), \"Yankee Doodle Dandy\" (1942), \"Spy Ship\" (1942), \"Night in New Orleans\" (1942), \"That Other Woman\" (1942), \"Gentleman Jim\" (1942), \"\" (1942), \"Over My Dead Body\" (1942), \"The Hard Way\" (1943), and \"The Meanest Man in the World\" (1943).\n\nAt 20, he appeared in the World War II morale booster \"Stage Door Canteen\", where he played a star struck serviceman with theater actress and producer Katharine Cornell.\n\nMcCallister leapt to fame playing the lead as Sparke in the horse-racing tale \"Home in Indiana\" (1944), also starring Walter Brennan and Jeanne Crain. This led to a contract with 20th Century Fox. He followed it with \"Winged Victory\" (1944) but then his career momentum was interrupted by war service.\n\nGrowing only to 5'6\" he found it difficult to find roles as an adult. He appeared with Edward G. Robinson in 1947's \"The Red House\" and had the star role in \"Thunder in the Valley\" (1947), and supported June Haver in \"Scudda Hoo! Scudda Hay!\" (1948).\n\nMcCallister had the lead in another animal story \"The Big Cat\" (1949) and co-starred with Shirley Temple in \"The Story of Seabiscuit\" (1949). He was in \"The Boy from Indiana\" (1950).\n\nMcCallister began appearing on TV in episodes of \"Suspense\" (\"Lunch Box\", \"Collector's Item\"), and \"Lux Video Theatre\" (\"Down Bayou DuBac\").\n\nHe had the lead in Sam Katzman's \"A Yank in Korea\" (1951) and a Western, \"Montana Territory\" (1952) but was mostly in TV: \"Tales of Tomorrow\" (\"Verdict from Space\"), \"The Last Man on Earth\", (\"Enemy Unknown\"), \"The Ford Television Theatre\" (\"My Daughter's Husband\"), \"Schlitz Playhouse\" (\"Operation Riviera\"), and \"Footlights Theater\" (\"My Daughter's Husband\"). His last feature film was \"Combat Squad\" (1953).\n\nIn 1953, at the age of 30, he retired from acting. Later in life he became a successful real estate manager. After retirement, he still appeared in two television series, as Coley Wilks in the 1961 episode \"The Hostage\" of the ABC western series, \"The Rebel\", starring Nick Adams, and as Willie in the 1963 episode \"Triple Indemnity\" of the CBS sitcom, \"The New Phil Silvers Show\".\n\nHe was a long time romantic partner of fellow actor William Eythe, up until Eythe's death in 1957.\n\nLon McCallister died from congestive heart failure at the age of 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32171561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32171561", "title": "Natural evolution strategy", "text": "Natural evolution strategy\n\nNatural evolution strategies (NES) are a family of numerical optimization algorithms for black box problems. Similar in spirit to evolution strategies, they iteratively update the (continuous) parameters of a \"search distribution\" by following the natural gradient towards higher expected fitness.\n\nThe general procedure is as follows: the \"parameterized\" search distribution is used to produce a batch of search points, and the fitness function is evaluated at each such point. The distribution’s parameters (which include \"strategy parameters\") allow the algorithm to adaptively capture the (local) structure of the fitness function. For example, in the case of a Gaussian distribution, this comprises the mean and the covariance matrix. From the samples, NES estimates a search gradient on the parameters towards higher expected fitness. NES then performs a gradient ascent step along the natural gradient, a second order method which, unlike the plain gradient, renormalizes the update w.r.t. uncertainty. This step is crucial, since it prevents oscillations, premature convergence, and undesired effects stemming from a given parameterization. The entire process reiterates until a stopping criterion is met.\n\nAll members of the NES family operate based on the same principles. They differ in the type of probability distribution and the gradient approximation method used. Different search spaces require different search distributions; for example, in low dimensionality it can be highly beneficial to model the full covariance matrix. In high dimensions, on the other hand, a more scalable alternative is to limit the covariance to the diagonal only. In addition, highly multi-modal search spaces may benefit from more heavy-tailed distributions (such as Cauchy, as opposed to the Gaussian). A last distinction arises between distributions where we can analytically compute the natural gradient, and more general distributions where we need to estimate it from samples.\n\nLet formula_1 denote the parameters of the search distribution formula_2 and formula_3 the fitness function evaluated at formula_4. NES then pursues the objective of maximizing the \"expected fitness under the search distribution\"\nthrough gradient ascent. The gradient can be rewritten as\nthat is, the expected value of formula_3 times the log-derivatives at formula_4. In practice, it is possible to use the Monte Carlo approximation based on a finite number of formula_13 samples\nFinally, the parameters of the search distribution can be updated iteratively\n\nInstead of using the plain stochastic gradient for updates, NES\nfollows the natural gradient, which has been shown to \npossess numerous advantages over the plain (\"vanilla\") gradient, e.g.:\n\nThe NES update is therefore\nwhere formula_17 is the Fisher information matrix.\nThe Fisher matrix can sometimes be computed exactly, otherwise it is estimated from samples, reusing the log-derivatives formula_18.\n\nNES utilizes rank-based fitness shaping in order to render the\nalgorithm more robust, and \"invariant\" under monotonically\nincreasing transformations of the fitness function. \nFor this purpose, the fitness of the population is transformed into a set of utility values\nformula_19. Let formula_20 denote the i best individual.\nReplacing fitness with utility, the gradient estimate becomes\nThe choice of utility function is a free parameter of the algorithm.\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14479922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14479922", "title": "Paws and Claws: Pet Vet", "text": "Paws and Claws: Pet Vet\n\nPaws and Claws: Pet Vet is a pet-raising simulation video game by German studio Radon Labs in which players can nurse dogs, cats, horses, birds, guinea pigs and rabbits back to health. The game features 20 ailments. Players can design their own clinic, choose which kennels to build and expand existing buildings to provide further services to their patients.\n\nPlayers assume the role of a veterinarian running a pet clinic and must heal sick pets back to full health. At the beginning of the game, this involves treating smaller pets such as guinea pigs, hamsters, rabbits, and birds. As the player gains experience, larger animals such as horses, dogs, or cats become available. The clinic's facilities can be expanded and altered (for instance, the style of kennels used to house the animals). Expanding facilities enables more pets to be housed and increases the range of treatments available. Players are also responsible for managing the clinic's finances and supplies.\n\nEach type of pet has a different type of task to be completed in order to heal them. Dogs can play fetch and be taken for a run to increase their fitness and horses can be ridden and taken out to the pasture. The Nintendo DS version utilizes voice recognition via the inbuilt microphone to issue commands to pets as well as to calm them during treatment.\n\nThere are six available buildings to construct and expand: the practice, the therapy house, the small animal house, the cat house, the dog house, and the horse stalls. In town, there are nine stores to conduct business and train players' characters.\n\nDuring the game, players can learn about different diseases and ailments. Ailments include fungus infection, Vitamin E Deficiency, ear inflammation, mold infection, Rabbit Flu, lung infection, corneal injury, liver infection, sunburn, asthma, and tonsil infections. As players move through the game, they are able to keep animals in animal houses for prolonged treatment. In the small animal house, they may keep guinea pigs, rabbits, or birds that have more serious injuries and diseases. When animals are in the animal houses, players must treat and feed them every day.\n\nThe game has a large playing world in which the character's actions are constrained by what time of day it is in-game. The clinic opens and closes at certain times of day, and if players wait too long to service a customer, they will leave the clinic. Patients must be healed in a certain amount of time, and customers will not pay their bill if players do not heal their animals.\n\nIn the game, players assume one of three characters: Hanna, Alex or Sophie. As one of these characters, players have many responsibilities to the clinic and the animals they are treating. They can dress the character for work, riding a horse, or for leisure. Players can also make them walk with the arrow keys or run while holding shift and using the arrow keys.\n\nThe game takes place in town, the animal practice, small animal house, cat house, therapy center, dog house, horse barn, fields and meadows, the forest, the beach, and town outskirts. The fields, meadows, practice, and town are the areas of the world that do not have to be purchased. The small animal house, cat house, therapy center, dog house, and horse barn are things that players must purchase using the money they receive from treating patients. The forest, beach and town outskirts are areas players can eventually earn by completing objectives.\n\n"}
{"id": "20633831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20633831", "title": "Per Oscarsson", "text": "Per Oscarsson\n\nPer Oscar Heinrich Oscarsson (28 January 1927 – 31 December 2010) was a Swedish actor. He is best known for his role in the 1966 film \"Hunger\", which earned him a Cannes Film Festival Award for Best Actor.\n\nOscarsson was born, along with his twin brother Björn, on 28 January 1927 on Kungsholmen, Stockholm to parents, engineer Einar Oscarsson and Therèse, née Küppers. The twins had two elder siblings. Their mother, who was German, died of cancer in 1933.\n\nOscarsson was best known for his role as Pontus, a starving writer, in the social realism drama \"Hunger\", based on the Knut Hamsun novel by the same name, a role for which he won the 1966 Bodil, the Guldbagge Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role and the 1966 Cannes Film Festival best actor awards. His most recent film role was as Holger Palmgren, the character Lisbeth Salander's publicly appointed guardian, in the 2009 movies \"The Girl Who Played with Fire\" and \"The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets' Nest\", based on Stieg Larsson's famous novels.\n\nA fire started in the house of Per Oscarsson and his wife Kia Östling on the night of 30–31 December 2010. On , a relative found the house burned to the ground with only the foundations and chimney remaining. Oscarsson had not been heard from since the fire. A body was discovered in the ruins of the house on , and was presumed by police to be either the body of Oscarsson or that of his wife. A second body was discovered on , which increased the possibility that both Oscarsson and his wife had perished in the fire. On , the deaths of Oscarsson and his wife were confirmed through dental records by Swedish police. Oscarsson died four weeks before his 84th birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "9463990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9463990", "title": "Pope John Paul I conspiracy theories", "text": "Pope John Paul I conspiracy theories\n\nPope John Paul I died suddenly in September 1978, 33 days after his election. Following contradictory reports about the circumstances of his death and apparent anomalies about the issuing of the death certificate and other procedures, several conspiracy theories have gained currency.\n\nMany of these concern the serious corruption in the Vatican Bank (Istituto per le Opere Religiose), possibly linked to Freemasonry, which is forbidden by church law. None of the claims have been substantiated. \n\nDiscrepancies in the Vatican's account of the events surrounding John Paul I's death – its inaccurate statements about who found the body; what he had been reading; when, where, and whether an autopsy could be carried out – produced a number of conspiracy theories, many associated with the Vatican Bank, which owned many shares in Banco Ambrosiano. \n\nSome conspiracy theorists connect the death of John Paul in September 1978 with the image of the \"bishop dressed in white\" said to have been seen by Lucia Santos and her cousins Jacinta and Francisco Marto during the visitations of Our Lady of Fátima in 1917. In a letter to a colleague, John Paul had said he was deeply moved by having met Lucia and vowed to perform the Consecration of Russia in accordance with her vision.\n\nDavid Yallop's 1984 book \"In God's Name\" proposed the theory that the pope had been in \"potential danger\" because of corruption in the Vatican Bank (known officially as the Institute for Works of Religion or \"Istituto per le Opere di Religione\"), the Vatican's most powerful financial institution which owned many shares in Banco Ambrosiano. The Vatican Bank lost about a quarter of a billion dollars.\n\nThis corruption was real and is known to have involved the bank's head, Bishop Paul Marcinkus, along with Roberto Calvi of the Banco Ambrosiano. Marcinkus, at the time head of the Vatican Bank, was indicted in Italy in 1982 as an accessory in the $3.5 billion collapse of Banco Ambrosiano. Calvi was a member of P2, an illegal Italian Masonic lodge. He was found dead in London in 1982, after disappearing just before the corruption became public. His death was initially ruled suicide and a second inquest – ordered by his family – then returned an open verdict.\n\nUpon publication of his book, Yallop agreed to donate every penny he made from sales to a charity of the Vatican's choice if they agreed to investigate his central claim, that when the body of the pope was discovered, his contorted hand gripped a piece of paper that was later destroyed because it named high-ranking members of the curia who were Freemasons and others who had a role in numerous corruption scandals and the laundering of mafia drug money. One of the names believed to be on the paper was that of Bishop Paul Marcinkus, who was later promoted by Pope John Paul II to Pro-President of Vatican City, making him the third most powerful person in the Vatican, after the pope and the secretary of state. None of Yallop's claims, which are unproven, has thus far been acknowledged by the Vatican, although Yallop disclosed the Masonic Lodge numbers of the Curia members whom he alleged to be Freemasons in his book. There is a papal ban of Freemasonry, and it is forbidden by Church law for a Roman Catholic to be a Freemason.\nYallop specifically summarized his conspiracy theory in his book: Three archbishops—Marcinkus, Villot and Cody—conspired with three Mafia types—Calvi, Sindona and Gelli—in the murder of John Paul I. “It was clear that these six men—Marcinkus, Villot, Cody, Calvi, Sindona and Gelli—had a great deal to fear if the papacy of John Paul I should continue… all of them stood to gain in a variety of ways if John Paul I should suddenly die.” \n\nIn his book \"A Thief in the Night\", British historian and journalist John Cornwell examines and challenges Yallop’s points of suspicion. Yallop’s murder theory requires that the pope’s body be found at 4:30 or 4:45 a.m., one hour earlier than official reports estimated. He bases this, \"inter alia\", on an early story by Vatican Radio and the Italian news service ANSA that garbled the time and misrepresented the layout of the papal apartments. Yallop claims to have had testimony from Sister Vincenza Taffarel (the nun who found the pope's body) to this effect but refused to show Cornwell his transcripts.\n\nTheologian and cult leader Abbé spent much of his life building a case for murder against the Vatican, collecting statements from people who knew the pope before and after his election. His writings go into detail about the banks and about John Paul I's supposed discovery of a number of Freemason priests in the Vatican, along with a number of his proposed reforms and devotion to Our Lady of Fátima.\n\nGregoire builds on his forerunners, benefiting by events not available to the others when they wrote their books. “I owe a great debt of gratitude to my predecessors…had Yallop not laid out the blueprint, had Cornwell not told the truth, had Manhattan not struck on the plot; I could have never written my book.”\n\nAvro Manhattan linked the CIA to the murder of John Paul I. “The CIA resolved to destroy John Paul I before he would destroy a Vatican subservient to the will of the USA.” \n\nIn September 1978, with the growing likelihood that Carter would cut off funds to Somoza, the CIA feared if Nicaragua fell to the Marxist Sandinistas, the USA would soon be looking at a half-dozen mini-Cubas in Central America. \n\nSuspected CIA covert agent Chicago Cardinal Cody visited the Polish cardinal (John Paul II) in Krakow during the papacy of John Paul I. \n\nWhat Gregoire brings to the table is the complete record of the courts that tried the bank scandal—from the first transaction that took place on October 22, 1978 six days after John Paul II took office, to the last transaction in 1981 when Ambrosiano was caught funneling hundreds of millions of dollars through the Vatican Bank to Nicaragua and Panama to the benefit of Somoza and the Contras and to a lesser extent Solidarity. \n\nHence, Lucien Gregoire’s conspiracy theory: ”The conspiracy that planned the Vatican-Ambrosiano Bank Scandal was the same conspiracy that plotted the murder of John Paul I.”\n\nAccording to the Catholic Traditionalist Movement, their founder Fr. Gommar DePauw was to have gone to Rome to help John Paul I reestablish the Tridentine Mass.\n\n[Fr. DePauw] stated on the 15th anniversary of the pope’s death: “Well, I tell you one thing, if he had remained Pope, you wouldn’t have me here at the Chapel because with that beautiful official letter signed by the Secretary of State, also came an unofficial message that I better start packing my suitcase, that there was a job waiting for me in Rome, in the Vatican, to help Pope John Paul I bring the Truth back to the Church. Well, it wasn’t to be and the Lord, Who knows what He does, obviously wanted me to be in this Chapel. … What was I going to do in Rome? Well let’s just forget it.”\nOther prominent Traditionalist Catholic websites, not related to CTM, have suggested John Paul I may have been assassinated to prevent restoration of the Tridentine Mass.\n\nIn his 2017 book \"The Godmother: Madre Pascalina\", Fr. Charles Murr notes the coincidence that Pope John Paul I had attempted to discipline Cardinal Sebastiano Baggio, who appointed many \"liberal\" bishops including, later, the sex abuser Theodore McCarrick, and that Cdl. Baggio was the last person to have seen Pope John Paul I alive.\n\nMalachi Martin's book \"Vatican: A Novel\" is a novel based on recent papal history. Although officially a work of fiction, Martin proposes the theory that the pope was murdered by the Soviet Union because he would abdicate the benign policy of his two predecessors, John XXIII and Paul VI, towards accommodating communism, and once again condemn it as an atheistic totalitarian ideology. Martin believed that the church structure was infiltrated for decades by illuminati agents who reached positions of high influence and rank, such as Jean-Marie Villot, at that time Cardinal Secretary of State.\n\n\"The Last Confession\" is a play written by Roger Crane. It is a thriller that tracks the dramatic tensions, crises of faith, and political manoeuvrings inside the Vatican surrounding the death of Pope John Paul I. The play toured the UK in the spring of 2007, before being transferred to the Theatre Royal, Haymarket, with a cast including David Suchet. It was subsequently broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 4 October 2008. In October 2010 the play was brought to continental Europe by the Antwerp Theater Group \"De Speling\". Suchet reprised the role at the Ahmanson Theater in Los Angeles in July 2014 and the Comedy Theatre in Melbourne in September 2014.\n\nIn December 1986, a play by Mark E. Smith of British post-punk band The Fall, \"\", was staged for two weeks in London, starring performance artist Leigh Bowery. It drew on conspiracy theories about the pope's death. A single, \"Hey! Luciani\", reached number 59 on the UK singles chart.\n\nThe 1990 motion picture \"The Godfather Part III\" featured a story element depicting Società Generale Immobiliare, the largest real estate company in the world (whose former largest shareholder was the Holy See and the Vatican Bank) involved in organised crime during and after the death of the old pope, and the election of a fictional cardinal named Lamberto to the papacy. Lamberto takes the papal name \"John Paul I\" and, like the real Pope John Paul I, he mysteriously dies.\n\nIn \"The Company: A Novel of the CIA\" by Robert Littell, Pope John Paul I is murdered by a KGB hired killer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13408947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13408947", "title": "Raising of Jairus' daughter", "text": "Raising of Jairus' daughter\n\nThe episode of the daughter of Jairus is a combination of miracles of Jesus in the Gospels (Mark 5:21–43, Matthew 9:18–26, Luke 8:40–56).\n\nThe story immediately follows the exorcism at Gerasa. Jairus (, \"Iaeiros\", from the Hebrew name Yair), a patron or ruler of a Galilee synagogue, had asked Jesus to heal his 12-year-old daughter.\n\nAs they were traveling to Jairus' house, a sick woman in the crowd touched Jesus' cloak and was healed of her sickness. Jesus turned round to the woman and said \"Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace.\" (see Luke 8:43-48) (Christ healing the bleeding woman). In the 2nd and 3rd Gospel's version, a messenger arrived with the news that Jairus' daughter had died, and he was advised not to trouble Jesus any further. However, Jesus responded:\n\nJesus continued to the house, where there were \"flute players and crowd making a commotion\" (Mark 5:23). He informed all those present that the girl was not dead but asleep. He then went upstairs and restored the little girl to life. In Mark's account, the Aramaic phrase \"Talitha Koum\" (transliterated into Greek as ταλιθα κουμ and meaning, \"Little girl, I say to you, get up!\") is attributed to Jesus.\n\nThe combined stories have been used as an example of intercalation, where one incident is inserted within another, linked in this case by the connection between the 12-year ailment and the 12-year-old girl.\n\nJohn Donahue and Daniel Harrington state that this episode shows that \"faith, especially as embodied by the bleeding woman, can exist in seemingly hopeless situations\".\n\nMichael Keene states that there is a link between Jairus and the woman: \"The link between them is faith since both Jairus and the bleeding woman showed great faith in Jesus\".\n\nJohn Walvoord and Roy Zuck state that: \"What appeared to be a disastrous delay in the healing of the woman actually assured the restoration of Jairus' daughter. It was providentially ordered to test and strengthen Jairus' faith.\" Johann Lange also states that: \"This delay would serve both to try and to strengthen the faith of Jairus.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "447904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447904", "title": "Richard Lawrence (failed assassin)", "text": "Richard Lawrence (failed assassin)\n\nRichard Lawrence (c. 1800 – June 13, 1861) was an American house painter who was the first known person to attempt to assassinate a sitting President of the United States. Lawrence attempted to shoot President Andrew Jackson outside the United States Capitol on January 30, 1835. At trial, Lawrence was found not guilty by reason of insanity and spent the remainder of his life in insane asylums. \n\nLawrence was born in England, most likely around 1800 or 1801. His family immigrated to the United States when he was 12 years old and settled in Virginia, near Washington, DC. Lawrence's childhood and early adult years were apparently normal. At his trial, he was described by acquaintances and relatives as a \"relatively fine young boy\" who was \"reserved in his manner; but industrious and of good moral habits.\" Lawrence later found work as a house painter. Historians have speculated that exposure to the toxic chemicals in the paints that he used may have contributed to his mental illness, which manifested in his thirties.\n\nBy November 1832, Lawrence's behavior and mental stability had inexplicably changed. He abruptly announced to his family that he was returning to England, and he left Washington, DC, shortly thereafter. He returned a month later telling his family he decided not to travel abroad as it was too cold. Shortly after returning, he again announced that he was returning to England to study landscape painting.\n\nLawrence left once again and briefly stayed in Philadelphia before returning home. He told his family that \"unnamed persons\" had prevented him from traveling abroad and that the US government also disapproved of his plan to return to England. Lawrence also claimed that while he was in Philadelphia, he read several stories about himself in the newspaper that were critical of his travel plans and his character. Lawrence told his family that he had no choice but to return to Washington, DC, until he could afford to buy a ship and hire a captain who would sail the ship to England for him.\n\nAround this time, Lawrence abruptly quit his house painting job. When questioned by his sister and brother-in-law with whom he was living, Lawrence claimed that he did not need to work because the US government owed him a large sum of money. Lawrence had come to believe that he was owed money because he was Richard III of England and owned two English estates. Lawrence became convinced that he was not receiving the money because of President Andrew Jackson's opposition to the Second Bank of the United States. He felt that if Jackson were no longer in office, Vice President Martin Van Buren would establish a national bank and allow Congress to pay him the money for his English estate claims.\n\nLawrence's personality and outward appearance changed dramatically around this time. Once conservatively dressed, Lawrence grew a mustache and began buying expensive and flamboyant clothing, which he would change three or four times a day. He took to standing in the doorway of his home for hours and gazing out into the street. Neighborhood children would jokingly address him as \"King Richard,\" which typically pleased Lawrence, who failed to realize the children were teasing him. He also became paranoid and hostile towards others. On one occasion, he threatened to kill a maid who he thought was laughing at him. Lawrence also began verbally and physically abusing his family, mainly his sisters, over imagined slights. In one instance, he threatened to hit his sister with a paperweight because he believed that she had been talking about him. At Lawrence's trial, witnesses described the bizarre behavior that he exhibited. Several people testified that Lawrence would engage in nonsensical conversations with himself, and others stated that he would have laughing and cursing fits.\n\nIn the weeks leading up to the assassination attempt on Jackson, Lawrence began observing Jackson's movements. Witnesses later testified that Lawrence was often seen sitting in his paint shop muttering to himself about Jackson. On January 30, 1835, the day of the assassination attempt, Lawrence was seen sitting in his paint shop with a book in his hand while laughing. Lawrence suddenly got up, left the shop and stated, \"I'll be damned if I don't do it.\"\n\nOn January 30, Jackson was attending the funeral of South Carolina Representative Warren R. Davis at the US Capitol. Lawrence originally planned to shoot Jackson as he entered the service but was unable to get close enough to Jackson. However, when Jackson left the funeral, Lawrence had found a space near a pillar on the East Portico l, where Jackson would pass. As Jackson walked, Lawrence stepped out and fired his first pistol at Jackson's back; it misfired. Lawrence quickly made another attempt with his second pistol, but that also misfired. It was later determined that the weapons that he had chosen were noted for being vulnerable to moisture, and the weather on that date was humid and damp.\n\nLawrence's unsuccessful attempts were noticed by Jackson, who proceeded to beat him with his cane. The crowd (which included Representative David \"Davy\" Crockett) eventually intervened and wrestled Lawrence into submission.\n\nLawrence was brought to trial on April 11, 1835, at the District of Columbia City Hall. The prosecuting attorney was Francis Scott Key. At his trial, Lawrence was prone to wild rants and he refused to recognize the legitimacy of the proceedings. At one point he said to the courtroom, \"It is for me, gentlemen, to pass judgment on you, and not you upon me\".\" After only five minutes of deliberation, the jury found Lawrence \"not guilty by reason of insanity.\"\n\nIn the years following his acquittal, Lawrence was held by several institutions and hospitals. In 1855, he was committed to the newly-opened Government Hospital for the Insane (later renamed St. Elizabeths Hospital), in Washington, DC, where he remained until his death on June 13, 1861.\n\nAs with later assassinations, there was speculation that Lawrence was part of a conspiracy. While nobody denied Lawrence's involvement, many people, including Jackson, believed that he may have been supported in or put up to carrying out the assassination attempt by the President's political enemies. U.S. Senator John C. Calhoun made a statement on the Senate floor that he was not connected to the attack. Nevertheless, Jackson believed that Calhoun, an old enemy, was at the bottom of the attempt.\n\nJackson also suspected a former friend and supporter, Senator George Poindexter of Mississippi, who had used Lawrence to do some house painting a few months earlier. Because Poindexter was unable to convince his supporters in Mississippi that he was not involved in a plot against Jackson, he was defeated for re-election. However, no evidence was ever discovered that connected Lawrence, Calhoun, or Poindexter in a plot to kill Jackson.\n\n"}
{"id": "18896047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18896047", "title": "Robert Townsend (captain)", "text": "Robert Townsend (captain)\n\nCaptain Robert Townsend (October 21, 1819 – August 15, 1866) was a Civil War-era ship Captain in the United States Navy. He served twice, once before the war then again during the war. He saw active combat while serving aboard three ships, most notably as commander of the USS \"Essex\" from 1863–1864, an ironclad gunship on the Mississippi River. Captain Townsend died of heatstroke while commanding the USS \"Wachusett\" in China in 1866, and is buried in Albany, New York.\n\nRobert Townsend was born on October 21, 1819 in Albany, New York to Isaiah and Hannah Townsend. His father was an executive of the Stirling Iron Works which under his great-grandfather Peter Townsend forged The Great Chain which was strung across the Hudson River at West Point and prevented the British Royal Navy from threatening that important American base and potentially controlling the river. His grandfather was Captain Solomon Townsend who was a merchant ship captain before the American Revolution. Robert Townsend was descended from John and Henry Townsend, New York, among the first settlers of that area in the early 17th century.\n\nTownsend received his primary education at The Albany Academy, and his secondary education at the Rev. Dr. Dewey's Boarding School in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. After graduating he attended Union College in Schenectady, New York, but left college before graduating in order to join the board of survey of the Utica and Schenectady Railroad Company.\n\nTownsend entered the United States Navy on August 4, 1837, serving first as a midshipman on the ship . In 1838 he was ordered to the battleship , then in each subsequent year to the sloop , the steamship . In 1843 he was promoted to passed midshipman and served on the frigate , then a year later on the brig .\n\nHe served in the Mexican–American War from 1846–1847 where he was engaged in the capture of Vera Cruz. He was promoted to first lieutenant in 1850, and resigned from the navy on April 7, 1851.\n\nOn June 19, 1850, Townsend married Harriet Munro, the daughter of Nathan Munro and Cynthia Champlin, of Elbridge, New York. The couple had three children; a son, Robert Townsend, Jr., born October 4, 1854, and daughters Mary Walker Townsend, born December 23, 1858, and Elizabeth Munroe Townsend, born July 19, 1860.\n\nAt the beginning of the civil war Townsend re-entered the service on 17 September 1861 as acting-lieutenant, receiving a promotion to commander a few months later, and served on a number of fighting ships.\n\nIn 1862 Townsend was acting-lieutenant of the under the command of Abram Davis Harrell. The \"Miami\" was a side-wheel, double-ender gunboat with a crew of 134 and armament of one 80-pounder Parrott rifle, one 9 inch smoothbore, and four 24-pounder cannon. The ship participated under Admiral David Farragut as part of the Mortar Flotilla in neutralizing Confederate forts below New Orleans. Eliminating the forts permitted the Union ships to move upriver and eventually take New Orleans. Townsend became Commander of the \"Miami\" by October of that year.\n\nIn 1863, he was promoted to commander and given command of the under Admiral David Dixon Porter's Mississippi Squadron. The \"Essex\" was a 1,000 ton ironclad river gunboat of the United States Army and later United States Navy during the American Civil War. It was named for Essex County, Massachusetts. \"Essex\" was originally constructed in 1856 at New Albany, Indiana as a steam powered ferry named \"New Era\". She had a crew of 134, armament consisting of one 32-pounder, three 11-inch Dahlgren smooth bores, one 10-inch Dahlgren smoothbore and one 12-pounder howitzer, with armor consisting of 1¾ inch forward casemate, ¾-inch sides.\n\nUnder Townsend's command the \"Essex\" participated in the Siege of Port Hudson which occurred from May 21 to July 9, 1863, when Union Army troops assaulted and then captured the Mississippi River town of Port Hudson, Louisiana. Along with the Mortar Flotilla, the \"Essex\" bombarded the area daily and helped bring about the surrender of the city. The Union's success in this battle gave Northern forces effective control of the Mississippi River and effectively cut the states of Arkansas and Texas off from the rest of the confederacy.\n\nOn July 9, she engaged the enemy at Donaldsonville, Louisiana, and although damaged in the battle, carried out her patrol duty at this point through March 6, 1864 when she sailed with the fleet into the mouth of the Red River and assisted in the capture of Fort de Russy on March 15 and 16.\n\nTownsend relinquished command of the \"Essex\" on November 3, 1864 to Commander Bryson.\n\nAfter relinquishing command of the \"Essex\", Townsend was given command of the . The \"Wachusett\" was a wooden steam frigate with a detachable propeller, carrying nine guns and a complement of 170 men. She was a large (1,032-ton) steam sloop-of-war that served the United States Navy in the American Civil War. She was outfitted as a gunboat and used by the Navy as part of the Union blockade of the Confederate States of America. On February 17, 1865, the ship was given orders to proceed to the East India Station by way of the Cape of Good Hope. There, she joined and in an effort to track down the Confederate commerce raider .\n\nWhile in China the ship was engaged in efforts to track down outlaws and pirates who were harming American interests. In mid-August the ship sailed up the Yangtze River in this mission. The heat was reportedly 107 degrees Fahrenheit (42 °C) in the shade and the ship made difficult passage up the river. A number of cases of heat stroke, some of them fatal occurred. At 1:45 am on August 15, 1866, Robert Townsend died of heat stroke. The executive officer John Woodward (Jack) Philip, (later Admiral), assumed command of the \"Wachusett\" and sailed it downriver with the goal of making it to Japan for the health of the crew. That evening the ship anchored by the consulate in Shanghai and held a funeral for their commander.\n\nRobert Townsend's body was returned to America and is interred at the Albany Rural Cemetery in New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15192954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15192954", "title": "Scott Field (politician)", "text": "Scott Field (politician)\n\nScott Field (January 26, 1847 – December 20, 1931) was an American politician who represented Texas in the United States House of Representatives from 1903–1907.\n\nField was born in Canton, Mississippi. He attended the McKee School in Madison County, Mississippi.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Field enlisted in the Confederate States Army as a member of the Harvey Scouts. Later, he served in Major General W.H. Jackson’s division, Forrest's Command, composed of Ross's Texas Brigade and Armstrong's Tennessee Brigade (cavalry). According to C.E. Holmes in an affidavit in Field's pension application, Field served in the Atlanta Campaign of 1864 commanded by John Bell Hood.\n\nAfter the war, Field attended the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, where he graduated in 1868. He returned to Mississippi and taught school for two years while studying law. Field was admitted to the Mississippi Bar in 1871.\n\nScott Field moved to Calvert, Texas in 1872 and opened a private law practice.\n\nHe was the prosecuting attorney of Robertson County, Texas 1878–1882. Field also served in the Texas Senate 1887–1891 and was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1892. During his term in the Texas State Senate, he was the lead sponsor of a law to ban convict labor, a practice thought of as a second incarnation of slavery, as it routinely involved rounding up minorities on false misdemeanor charges and putting them to work during harvest season.\n\nField was elected as a Democrat to the Fifty-eighth and Fifty-ninth Congresses (March 4, 1903 – March 3, 1907). He was not a candidate for reelection in 1906 to the Fiftieth Congress. After leaving Congress, he resumed the practice of law until 1913, when he engaged in extensive agricultural pursuits.\n\nSoldier's Application for a Confederate Pension, #49968, State of Texas, was filed by Scott Field, Sr., July 13, 1931. It was approved the same date. In the application, Field stated that he had enlisted from Canton, Mississippi and served from September 1863 until the end of the war. The application contains a letter from Joe Y. McNutt, County Judge of Robertson County, to the Hon. Geo. H. Sheppard, Comptroller of Public Accounts, Austin, Texas, July 11, 1931, stating that Field was completely blind and aided by an attendant. McNutt testified to Field's character and stated that Field had suffered financial reverses in recent years.\n\nScott Field was the son of Henry and Jane (Bates) Field. of Canton, Mississippi.\n\nHe married three times. Field married Victoria Lucky on December 13, 1874, and she died on February 21, 1877, \nat the age of 26. He married Lucy E. Garrett Randolph on June 6, 1878. Lucy was the widow of George F. Randolph. Scott and Lucy had three sons, Thomas, Scott and Eugene. Lucy died on August 20, 1903. Upon her death, he married the widow Maude Harlan Green. According to his application for a Confederate pension, his wife was \"not living\" at the time of the application. His death certificate mentions his wife at the time of death was \"Mrs. Maude H. Field\" and does not say she was deceased.\n\nScott Field died in Calvert, Texas on December 30, 1931 of cerebral thrombosis at the home of his son Tom Field and was buried in Calvert Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "27919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27919", "title": "Sociobiology", "text": "Sociobiology\n\nSociobiology is a field of biology that aims to examine and explain social behavior in terms of evolution. It draws from disciplines including ethology, anthropology, evolution, zoology, archaeology, and population genetics. Within the study of human societies, sociobiology is closely allied to Darwinian anthropology, human behavioral ecology and evolutionary psychology.\n\nSociobiology investigates social behaviors such as mating patterns, territorial fights, pack hunting, and the hive society of social insects. It argues that just as selection pressure led to animals evolving useful ways of interacting with the natural environment, so also it led to the genetic evolution of advantageous social behavior.\n\nWhile the term \"sociobiology\" originated at least as early as the 1940s, the concept did not gain major recognition until the publication of E. O. Wilson's book \"\" in 1975. The new field quickly became the subject of controversy. Critics, led by Richard Lewontin and Stephen Jay Gould, argued that genes played a role in human behavior, but that traits such as aggressiveness could be explained by social environment rather than by biology. Sociobiologists responded by pointing to the complex relationship between nature and nurture.\n\nE. O. Wilson defined sociobiology as \"the extension of population biology and evolutionary theory to social organization\".\n\nSociobiology is based on the premise that some behaviors (social and individual) are at least partly inherited and can be affected by natural selection. It begins with the idea that behaviors have evolved over time, similar to the way that physical traits are thought to have evolved. It predicts that animals will act in ways that have proven to be evolutionarily successful over time. This can, among other things, result in the formation of complex social processes conducive to evolutionary fitness.\n\nThe discipline seeks to explain behavior as a product of natural selection. Behavior is therefore seen as an effort to preserve one's genes in the population. Inherent in sociobiological reasoning is the idea that certain genes or gene combinations that influence particular behavioral traits can be inherited from generation to generation\n\nFor example, newly dominant male lions often kill cubs in the pride that they did not sire. This behavior is adaptive because killing the cubs eliminates competition for their own offspring and causes the nursing females to come into heat faster, thus allowing more of his genes to enter into the population. Sociobiologists would view this instinctual cub-killing behavior as being inherited through the genes of successfully reproducing male lions, whereas non-killing behavior may have died out as those lions were less successful in reproducing.\n\nThe philosopher of biology Daniel Dennett suggested that the political philosopher Thomas Hobbes was the first sociobiologist, arguing that in his 1651 book \"Leviathan\" Hobbes had explained the origins of morals in human society from an amoral sociobiological perspective. \n\nThe geneticist of animal behavior John Paul Scott coined the word \"sociobiology\" at a 1948 conference on genetics and social behaviour which called for a conjoint development of field and laboratory studies in animal behavior research. With John Paul Scott's organizational efforts, a \"Section of Animal Behavior and Sociobiology\" of the ESA was created in 1956, which became a Division of Animal Behavior of the American Society of Zoology in 1958. In 1956, E. O. Wilson came in contact this emerging sociobiology through his PhD student Stuart A. Altmann, who had been in close relation with the participants to the 1948 conference. Altmann developed his own brand of sociobiology to study the social behavior of rhesus macaques, using statistics, and was hired as a \"sociobiologist\" at the Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center in 1965.\nWilson's sociobiology is different from John Paul Scott's or Altmann's, insofar as he drew on mathematical models of social behavior centered on the maximisation of the genetic fitness by W. D. Hamilton, Robert Trivers, John Maynard Smith, and George R. Price. The three sociobiologies by Scott, Altmann and Wilson have in common to place naturalist studies at the core of the research on animal social behavior and by drawing alliances with emerging research methodologies, at a time when \"biology in the field\" was threatened to be made old-fashioned by \"modern\" practices of science (laboratory studies, mathematical biology, molecular biology).\n\nOnce a specialist term, \"sociobiology\" became widely known in 1975 when Wilson published his book \"Sociobiology: The New Synthesis\", which sparked an intense controversy. Since then \"sociobiology\" has largely been equated with Wilson's vision. The book pioneered and popularized the attempt to explain the evolutionary mechanics behind social behaviors such as altruism, aggression, and nurturance, primarily in ants (Wilson's own research specialty) and other Hymenoptera, but also in other animals. However, the influence of evolution on behavior has been of interest to biologists and philosophers since soon after the discovery of evolution itself. Peter Kropotkin's \"\", written in the early 1890s, is a popular example. The final chapter of the book is devoted to sociobiological explanations of human behavior, and Wilson later wrote a Pulitzer Prize winning book, \"On Human Nature\", that addressed human behavior specifically.\n\nEdward H. Hagen writes in \"The Handbook of Evolutionary Psychology\" that sociobiology is, despite the public controversy regarding the applications to humans, \"one of the scientific triumphs of the twentieth century.\" \"Sociobiology is now part of the core research and curriculum of virtually all biology departments, and it is a foundation of the work of almost all field biologists\" Sociobiological research on nonhuman organisms has increased dramatically and continuously in the world's top scientific journals such as \"Nature\" and \"Science\". The more general term behavioral ecology is commonly substituted for the term sociobiology in order to avoid the public controversy.\n\nSociobiologists maintain that human behavior, as well as nonhuman animal behavior, can be partly explained as the outcome of natural selection. They contend that in order to fully understand behavior, it must be analyzed in terms of evolutionary considerations.\n\nNatural selection is fundamental to evolutionary theory. Variants of hereditary traits which increase an organism's ability to survive and reproduce will be more greatly represented in subsequent generations, i.e., they will be \"selected for\". Thus, inherited behavioral mechanisms that allowed an organism a greater chance of surviving and/or reproducing in the past are more likely to survive in present organisms. That inherited adaptive behaviors are present in nonhuman animal species has been multiply demonstrated by biologists, and it has become a foundation of evolutionary biology. However, there is continued resistance by some researchers over the application of evolutionary models to humans, particularly from within the social sciences, where culture has long been assumed to be the predominant driver of behavior.\n\nSociobiology is based upon two fundamental premises:\n\nSociobiology uses Nikolaas Tinbergen's four categories of questions and explanations of animal behavior. Two categories are at the species level; two, at the individual level. The species-level categories (often called \"ultimate explanations\") are\nThe individual-level categories (often called \"proximate explanations\") are\n\nSociobiologists are interested in how behavior can be explained logically as a result of selective pressures in the history of a species. Thus, they are often interested in instinctive, or intuitive behavior, and in explaining the similarities, rather than the differences, between cultures. For example, mothers within many species of mammals – including humans – are very protective of their offspring. Sociobiologists reason that this protective behavior likely evolved over time because it helped the offspring of the individuals which had the characteristic to survive. This parental protection would increase in frequency in the population. The social behavior is believed to have evolved in a fashion similar to other types of nonbehavioral adaptations, such as a coat of fur, or the sense of smell.\n\nIndividual genetic advantage fails to explain certain social behaviors as a result of gene-centred selection. E.O. Wilson argued that evolution may also act upon groups. The mechanisms responsible for group selection employ paradigms and population statistics borrowed from evolutionary game theory. Altruism is defined as \"a concern for the welfare of others\". If altruism is genetically determined, then altruistic individuals must reproduce their own altruistic genetic traits for altruism to survive, but when altruists lavish their resources on non-altruists at the expense of their own kind, the altruists tend to die out and the others tend to increase. An extreme example is a soldier losing his life trying to help a fellow soldier. This example raises the question of how altruistic genes can be passed on if this soldier dies without having any children.\n\nWithin sociobiology, a social behavior is first explained as a sociobiological hypothesis by finding an evolutionarily stable strategy that matches the observed behavior. Stability of a strategy can be difficult to prove, but usually, it will predict gene frequencies. The hypothesis can be supported by establishing a correlation between the gene frequencies predicted by the strategy, and those expressed in a population.\n\nAltruism between social insects and littermates has been explained in such a way. Altruistic behavior, behavior that increases the reproductive fitness of others at the apparent expense of the altruist, in some animals has been correlated to the degree of genome shared between altruistic individuals. A quantitative description of infanticide by male harem-mating animals when the alpha male is displaced as well as rodent female infanticide and fetal resorption are active areas of study. In general, females with more bearing opportunities may value offspring less, and may also arrange bearing opportunities to maximize the food and protection from mates.\n\nAn important concept in sociobiology is that temperament traits exist in an ecological balance. Just as an expansion of a sheep population might encourage the expansion of a wolf population, an expansion of altruistic traits within a gene pool may also encourage increasing numbers of individuals with dependent traits.\n\nStudies of human behavior genetics have generally found behavioral traits such as creativity, extroversion, aggressiveness, and IQ have high heritability. The researchers who carry out those studies are careful to point out that heritability does not constrain the influence that environmental or cultural factors may have on those traits.\n\nCriminality is actively under study, but extremely controversial. There are arguments that in some environments criminal behavior might be adaptive. The novelist Elias Canetti also has noted applications of sociobiological theory to cultural practices such as slavery and autocracy.\n\nGenetic mouse mutants illustrate the power that genes exert on behaviour. For example, the transcription factor FEV (aka Pet1), through its role in maintaining the serotonergic system in the brain, is required for normal aggressive and anxiety-like behavior. Thus, when FEV is genetically deleted from the mouse genome, male mice will instantly attack other males, whereas their wild-type counterparts take significantly longer to initiate violent behaviour. In addition, FEV has been shown to be required for correct maternal behaviour in mice, such that offspring of mothers without the FEV factor do not survive unless cross-fostered to other wild-type female mice.\n\nA genetic basis for instinctive behavioural traits among non-human species, such as in the above example, is commonly accepted among many biologists; however, attempting to use a genetic basis to explain complex behaviours in human societies has remained extremely controversial.\n\nSteven Pinker argues that critics have been overly swayed by politics and a fear of biological determinism, accusing among others Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin of being \"radical scientists\", whose stance on human nature is influenced by politics rather than science, while Lewontin, Steven Rose and Leon Kamin who drew a distinction between the politics and history of an idea and its scientific validity argue that sociobiology fails on scientific grounds. Gould grouped sociobiology with eugenics, criticizing both in his book \"The Mismeasure of Man\".\n\nNoam Chomsky has expressed views on sociobiology on several occasions. During a 1976 meeting of the Sociobiology Study Group, as reported by Ullica Segerstråle, Chomsky argued for the importance of a sociobiologically informed notion of human nature. Chomsky argued that human beings are biological organisms and ought to be studied as such, with his criticism of the \"blank slate\" doctrine in the social sciences (which would inspire a great deal of Steven Pinker's and others' work in evolutionary psychology), in his 1975 \"Reflections on Language\". Chomsky further hinted at the possible reconciliation of his anarchist political views and sociobiology in a discussion of Peter Kropotkin's \"\", which focused more on altruism than aggression, suggesting that anarchist societies were feasible because of an innate human tendency to cooperate.\n\nWilson has claimed that he had never meant to imply what \"ought\" to be, only what \"is\" the case. However, some critics have argued that the language of sociobiology readily slips from \"is\" to \"ought\", an instance of the naturalistic fallacy. Pinker has argued that opposition to stances considered anti-social, such as ethnic nepotism, is based on moral assumptions, meaning that such opposition is not falsifiable by scientific advances. The history of this debate, and others related to it, are covered in detail by , , and .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162947", "title": "St. Bartholomew's Day massacre", "text": "St. Bartholomew's Day massacre\n\nThe St. Bartholomew's Day massacre () in 1572 was a targeted group of assassinations and a wave of Catholic mob violence, directed against the Huguenots (French Calvinist Protestants) during the French Wars of Religion. Traditionally believed to have been instigated by Queen Catherine de' Medici, the mother of King Charles IX, the massacre took place a few days after the wedding day (18 August) of the king's sister Margaret to the Protestant Henry III of Navarre (the future Henry IV of France). Many of the most wealthy and prominent Huguenots had gathered in largely Catholic Paris to attend the wedding.\n\nThe massacre began in the night of 23–24 August 1572 (the eve of the feast of Bartholomew the Apostle), two days after the attempted assassination of Admiral Gaspard de Coligny, the military and political leader of the Huguenots. The king ordered the killing of a group of Huguenot leaders, including Coligny, and the slaughter spread throughout Paris. Lasting several weeks, the massacre expanded outward to other urban centres and the countryside. Modern estimates for the number of dead across France vary widely, from 5,000 to 30,000.\n\nThe massacre also marked a turning point in the French Wars of Religion. The Huguenot political movement was crippled by the loss of many of its prominent aristocratic leaders, as well as many re-conversions by the rank and file. Those who remained were increasingly radicalized. Though by no means unique, it \"was the worst of the century's religious massacres\". Throughout Europe, it \"printed on Protestant minds the indelible conviction that Catholicism was a bloody and treacherous religion\".\n\nThe Massacre of Saint Bartholomew's Day was the culmination of a series of events:\n\nThe Peace of Saint-Germain put an end to three years of terrible civil war between Catholics and Protestants. This peace, however, was precarious since the more intransigent Catholics refused to accept it. The Guise family (strongly Catholic) was out of favour at the French court; the Huguenot leader, Admiral Gaspard de Coligny, was readmitted into the king's council in September 1571. Staunch Catholics were shocked by the return of Protestants to the court, but the queen mother, Catherine de' Medici, and her son, Charles IX, were practical in their support of peace and Coligny, as they were conscious of the kingdom's financial difficulties and the Huguenots' strong defensive position: they controlled the fortified towns of La Rochelle, La Charité-sur-Loire, Cognac, and Montauban.\n\nTo cement the peace between the two religious parties, Catherine planned to marry her daughter Margaret to the Protestant prince, Henry of Navarre (the future King Henry IV), son of the Huguenot leader Queen Jeanne d'Albret. The royal marriage was arranged for 18 August 1572. It was not accepted by traditionalist Catholics or by the Pope. Both the Pope and King Philip II of Spain strongly condemned Catherine's Huguenot policy as well.\n\nThe impending marriage led to the gathering of a large number of well-born Protestants in Paris, who had come to escort their prince. But Paris was a violently anti-Huguenot city, and Parisians, who tended to be extreme Catholics, found their presence unacceptable. Encouraged by Catholic preachers, they were horrified at the marriage of a princess of France with a Protestant. The Parlement's opposition and the court's absence from the wedding led to increased political tension.\n\nCompounding this bad feeling was the fact that the harvests had been poor and taxes had risen. The rise in food prices and the luxury displayed on the occasion of the royal wedding increased tensions among the common people. A particular point of tension was an open-air cross erected on the site of the house of Philippe de Gastines, a Huguenot who had been executed in 1569. The mob had torn down his house and erected a large wooden cross on a stone base. Under the terms of the peace, and after considerable popular resistance, this had been removed in December 1571 (and re-erected in a cemetery), which had already led to about 50 deaths in riots, as well as mob destruction of property. In the massacres of August, the relatives of the Gastines family were among the first to be killed by the mob.\n\nThe court itself was extremely divided. Catherine had not obtained Pope Gregory XIII's permission to celebrate this irregular marriage; consequently, the French prelates hesitated over which attitude to adopt. It took all the queen mother's skill to convince the Cardinal de Bourbon (paternal uncle of the Protestant groom, but himself a Catholic clergyman) to marry the couple. Beside this, the rivalries between the leading families re-emerged. The Guises were not prepared to make way for their rivals, the House of Montmorency. François, Duke of Montmorency and governor of Paris, was unable to control the disturbances in the city. On August 20, he left the capital and retired to Chantilly.\n\nIn the years preceding the massacre, Huguenot \"political rhetoric\" had for the first time taken a tone against not just the policies of a particular monarch of France, but monarchy in general. In part this was led by an apparent change in stance by John Calvin in his \"Readings on the Prophet Daniel\", a book of 1561, in which he had argued that when kings disobey God, they \"automatically abdicate their worldly power\" – a change from his views in earlier works that even ungodly kings should be obeyed. This change was soon picked up by Huguenot writers, who began to expand on Calvin and promote the idea of the sovereignty of the people, ideas to which Catholic writers and preachers responded fiercely.\n\nNevertheless, it was only in the aftermath of the massacre that anti-monarchical ideas found widespread support from Huguenots, among the \"Monarchomachs\" and others. \"Huguenot writers, who had previously, for the most part, paraded their loyalty to the Crown, now called for the deposition or assassination of a Godless king who had either authorised or permitted the slaughter\". Thus, the massacre \"marked the beginning of a new form of French Protestantism: one that was openly at war with the crown. This was much more than a war against the policies of the crown, as in the first three civil wars; it was a campaign against the very existence of the Gallican monarchy itself\".\n\nTensions were further raised when in May 1572 the news reached Paris that a French Huguenot army under Louis of Nassau had crossed from France to the Netherlandish province of Hainaut and captured the Catholic strongholds of Mons and Valenciennes (now in Belgium and France, respectively). Louis governed the Principality of Orange around Avignon in southern France for his brother William the Silent, who was leading the Dutch Revolt against the Spanish. This intervention threatened to involve France in that war; many Catholics believed that Coligny had again persuaded the king to intervene on the side of the Dutch, as he had managed to do the previous October, before Catherine had got the decision reversed.\n\nAfter the wedding on 18 August 1572, Coligny and the leading Huguenots remained in Paris to discuss some outstanding grievances about the Peace of St. Germain with the king. On 22 August, an attempt was made on Coligny's life as he made his way back to his house from the Louvre. He was shot from an upstairs window, and seriously wounded. The would-be assassin, probably Charles de Louviers, Lord of Maurevert (c. 1505-1583), escaped in the ensuing confusion, and it is still difficult today to decide who was ultimately responsible for the attack. History records three possible candidates:\n\n\nThe attempted assassination of Coligny triggered the crisis that led to the massacre. Admiral de Coligny was the most respected Huguenot leader and enjoyed a close relationship with the king, although he was distrusted by the king's mother. Aware of the danger of reprisals from the Protestants, the king and his court visited Coligny on his sickbed and promised him that the culprits would be punished. While the Queen Mother was eating dinner, Protestants burst in to demand justice, some talking in menacing terms. Fears of Huguenot reprisals grew. Coligny's brother-in-law led a 4,000-strong army camped just outside Paris and, although there is no evidence it was planning to attack, Catholics in the city feared it might take revenge on the Guises or the city populace itself.\n\nThat evening, Catherine held a meeting at the Tuileries Palace with her Italian advisers, including Albert de Gondi, Comte de Retz. On the evening of 23 August, Catherine went to see the king to discuss the crisis. Though no details of the meeting survive, Charles IX and his mother apparently made the decision to eliminate the Protestant leaders. Holt speculated this entailed \"between two and three dozen noblemen\" who were still in Paris. Other historians are reluctant to speculate on the composition or size of the group leaders targeted at this point, beyond the few obvious heads. (Like Coligny, most potential candidates were accompanied by groups of gentlemen as staff and bodyguards; so each killing of a leader could have been expected to involve killing these as well.) \n\nShortly after this decision, the municipal authorities of Paris were summoned. They were ordered to shut the city gates and arm the citizenry to prevent any attempt at a Protestant uprising. The king's Swiss Guard was given the task of killing a list of leading Protestants. It is difficult today to determine the exact chronology of events and to know the moment the killing began. It seems probable that a signal was given by ringing bells for matins (between midnight and dawn) at the church of Saint-Germain l'Auxerrois, near the Louvre, which was the parish church of the kings of France. The Swiss guards expelled the Protestant nobles from the Louvre castle and then slaughtered them in the streets.\nA group led by Guise in person dragged Admiral Coligny from his bed, killed him, and threw his body out of a window. Huguenot nobles in the building first put up a fight, as they were terrified for the life of their leader, but Coligny himself seemed unperturbed. One of Coligny's murderers recognized this calm regarding his fate by stating that \"he never saw anyone less afraid in so great a peril, nor die more steadfastly\" (Dethou). The tension that had been building since the Peace of St. Germain now exploded in a wave of popular violence. The common people began to hunt Protestants throughout the city, including women and children. Chains were used to block streets so that Protestants could not escape from their houses. The bodies of the dead were collected in carts and thrown into the Seine. The massacre in Paris lasted three days despite the king's attempts to stop it. Holt concludes that \"while the general massacre might have been prevented, there is no evidence that it was intended by any of the elites at court\", listing a number of cases where Catholic courtiers intervened to save individual Protestants who were not in the leadership.\n\nThe two leading Huguenot princes, Henry of Navarre and his cousin the Prince of Condé (respectively aged 19 and 20), were spared as they pledged to convert to Catholicism; both renounced their conversions after they escaped Paris. According to some interpretations, the survival of these princes was a key point in Catherine's overall scheme, to prevent the House of Guise from becoming too powerful.\n\nOn August 26, the king and court established the official version of events by going to the Paris Parlement. \"Holding a lit de justice, Charles declared that he had ordered the massacre in order to thwart a Huguenot plot against the royal family.\" A jubilee celebration, including a procession, was then held, while the killings continued in parts of the city.\n\nAlthough Charles had dispatched orders to his provincial governors on August 24 to prevent violence and maintain the terms of the 1570 edict, from August to October, similar massacres of Huguenots took place in a total of twelve other cities: Toulouse, Bordeaux, Lyon, Bourges, Rouen,\nOrléans, Meaux, Angers, La Charité, Saumur, Gaillac and Troyes. In most of them, the killings swiftly followed the arrival of the news of the Paris massacre, but in some places there was a delay of more than a month. According to Mack P. Holt: \"All twelve cities where provincial massacres occurred had one striking feature in common; they were all cities with Catholic majorities where there had once been \"significant\" Protestant minorities... All of them had also experienced serious religious division... during the first three civil wars... Moreover seven of them shared a previous experience ... [they] had actually been taken over by Protestant minorities during the first civil war...\"\nIn several cases the Catholic party in the city believed they had received orders from the king to begin the massacre, some conveyed by visitors to the city, and in other cases apparently coming from a local nobleman or his agent. It seems unlikely any such orders came from the king, although the Guise faction may have desired the massacres. Apparently genuine letters from the Duke of Anjou, the king's younger brother, did urge massacres in the king's name; in Nantes the mayor fortunately held on to his without publicising it until a week later when contrary orders from the king had arrived. In some cities the massacres were led by the mob, while the city authorities tried to suppress them, and in others small groups of soldiers and officials began rounding up Protestants with little mob involvement. In Bordeaux the inflammatory sermon on September 29 of a Jesuit, Edmond Auger, encouraged the massacre that was to occur a few days later.\n\nIn the cities affected the loss to the Huguenot communities after the massacres was numerically far larger than those actually killed; in the following weeks there were mass conversions to Catholicism, apparently in response to the threatening atmosphere for Huguenots in these cities. In Rouen, where some hundreds were killed, the Huguenot community shrank from 16,500 to fewer than 3,000 mainly as a result of conversions and emigration to safer cities or countries. Some cities unaffected by the violence nevertheless witnessed a sharp decline in their Huguenot population. It has been claimed that the Huguenot community represented as much as 10% of the French population on the eve of the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre, declining to 7-8% by the end of the 16th century, and further after heavy persecution began once again during the reign of Louis XIV, culminating with the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.\n\nSoon afterward both sides prepared for a fourth civil war, which began before the end of the year.\n\nEstimates of the number that perished in the massacres have varied from 2,000 by a Roman Catholic apologist to 70,000 by the contemporary Huguenot duc de Sully, who himself barely escaped death. Accurate figures for casualties have never been compiled, and, even in writings by modern historians there is a considerable range, though the more specialised the historian, the lower they tend to be. At the low end are figures of about 2,000 in Paris and 3,000 in the provinces, the latter figure an estimate by Philip Benedict in 1978. Other estimates are about 10,000 in total, with about 3,000 in Paris and 7,000 in the provinces. At the higher end are total figures of up to 20,000, or 30,000 in total, from \"a contemporary, non-partisan guesstimate\" quoted by the historians Felipe Fernández-Armesto and D. Wilson. For Paris, the only hard figure is a payment by the city to workmen for collecting and burying 1,100 bodies washed up on the banks of the Seine downstream from the city in one week. Body counts relating to other payments are computed from this.\n\nAmong the slain were the philosopher Petrus Ramus, and in Lyon the composer Claude Goudimel. The corpses floating down the Rhone from Lyons are said to have put the people of Arles off drinking the water for three months.\n\nThe Politiques, those Catholics who placed national unity above sectarian interests, were horrified, but many Catholics inside and outside France initially regarded the massacres as deliverance from an imminent Huguenot coup d'etat. The severed head of Coligny was apparently dispatched to Pope Gregory XIII, though it got no further than Lyon, and the pope sent the king a Golden Rose. The pope ordered a Te Deum to be sung as a special thanksgiving (a practice continued for many years after) and had a medal struck with the motto \"Ugonottorum strages 1572\" (Latin: \"Overthrow (or slaughter) of the Huguenots 1572\") showing an angel bearing a cross and a sword before which are the felled Protestants.\n\nAlthough these formal acts of rejoicing in Rome were not repudiated publicly, misgivings in the papal curia grew as the true nature of the killings gradually became better known. Pope Gregory XIII himself refused to receive Charles de Maurevert, said to be the killer of Coligny, on the ground that he was a murderer.\n\nOn hearing of the slaughter, Philip II of Spain \"laughed, for almost the only time on record\". In Paris, the poet Jean-Antoine de Baïf, founder of the \"Academie de Musique et de Poésie\", wrote a sonnet extravagantly praising the killings. On the other hand, the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximilian II, King Charles's father-in-law, was sickened, describing the massacre as a \"shameful bloodbath\". Moderate French Catholics also began to wonder whether religious uniformity was worth the price of such bloodshed and the ranks of the Politiques began to swell.\n\nThe massacre caused a \"major international crisis\". Protestant countries were horrified at the events, and only the concentrated efforts of Catherine's ambassadors, including a special mission by Gondi, prevented the collapse of her policy of remaining on good terms with them. Elizabeth I of England's ambassador to France at that time, Sir Francis Walsingham, barely escaped with his life. Even Tsar Ivan the Terrible expressed horror at the carnage in a letter to the Emperor.\n\nThe massacre \"spawned a pullulating mass of polemical literature, bubbling with theories, prejudices and phobias\". Many Catholic authors were exultant in their praise of the king for his bold and decisive action (after regretfully abandoning a policy of meeting Huguenot demands as far as he could) against the supposed Huguenot coup, whose details were now fleshed out in officially sponsored works, though the larger mob massacres were somewhat deprecated: \"[one] must excuse the people's fury moved by a laudable zeal which is difficult to restrain once it has been stirred up\". Huguenot works understandably dwelt on the harrowing details of violence, expounded various conspiracy theories that the royal court had long planned the massacres, and often showed extravagant anti-Italian feelings directed at Catherine, Gondi, and other Italians at court. Diplomatic correspondence was readier than published polemics to recognise the unplanned and chaotic nature of the events, which also emerged from several accounts in memoirs published over the following years by witnesses to the events at court, including two dramatic and influential accounts by members of the royal family that were not recognised as fake until the 19th century, those supposedly by Marguerite of Navarre, and Anjou. Anjou's supposed account was the source of the quotation attributed to Charles IX: \"Well then, so be it! Kill them! But kill them all! Don't leave a single one alive to reproach me!\"\nThe author of the \"Lettre de Pierre Charpentier\" (1572) was not only \"a Protestant of sorts, and thus, apparently, writing with inside knowledge\", but also \"an extreme apologist for the massacre ... in his view ... a well-merited punishment for years of civil disobedience [and] secret sedition...\" A strand of Catholic writing, especially by Italian authors, broke from the official French line to applaud the massacre as precisely a brilliant stratagem, deliberately planned from various points beforehand. The most extreme of these writers was Camilo Capilupi, a papal secretary, whose work insisted that the whole series of events since 1570 had been a masterly plan conceived by Charles IX, and carried through by frequently misleading his mother and ministers as to his true intentions. The Venetian government refused to allow the work to be printed there, and it was eventually published in Rome in 1574, and in the same year quickly reprinted in Geneva in the original Italian and a French translation.\n\nIt was in this context that the massacre came to be seen as a product of Machiavellianism, a view greatly influenced by the Huguenot , who published his \"Discours contre Machievel\" in 1576, which was printed in ten editions in three languages over the next four years. Gentillet held, quite wrongly according to Sydney Anglo, that Machiavelli's \"books [were] held most dear and precious by our Italian and Italionized courtiers\" (in the words of his first English translation), and so (in Anglo's paraphrase) \"at the root of France's present degradation, which has culminated not only in the St Bartholemew massacre but the glee of its perverted admirers\". In fact there is little trace of Machiavelli in French writings before the massacre, and not very much after, until Gentillet's own book, but this concept was seized upon by many contemporaries, and played a crucial part in setting the long-lasting popular concept of Machiavellianism that so infuriates scholars of his actual thought. It also gave added impetus to the strong anti-Italian feelings already present in Huguenot polemic.\n\nChristopher Marlowe was one of many Elizabethan writers who were enthusiastic proponents of these ideas. In the \"Jew of Malta\" (1589–90) \"Machievel\" in person speaks the Prologue, claiming to not be dead, but to have possessed the soul of (the Duke of) Guise, \"And, now the Guise is dead, is come from France/ To view this land, and frolic with his friends\" (Prologue, lines 3-4) His last play, \"The Massacre at Paris\" (1593) takes the massacre, and the following years, as its subject, with Guise and Catherine both depicted as Machiavellian plotters, bent on evil from the start. The Catholic Encyclopedia of 1913 was still ready to endorse a version of this view, describing the massacres as \"an entirely political act committed in the name of the immoral principles of Machiavellianism\" and blaming \"the pagan theories of a certain raison d'état according to which the end justified the means\".\n\nThe French 18th-century historian Louis-Pierre Anquetil, in his \"Esprit de la Ligue\" of 1767, was among the first to begin impartial historical investigation, emphasizing the lack of premeditation (before the attempt on Coligny) in the massacre and that Catholic mob violence had a history of uncontrollable escalation. By this period the Massacre was being widely used by Voltaire (in his \"Henriade\") and other Enlightenment writers in polemics against organized religion in general. The question of whether the massacre had long been premeditated was not entirely settled until the late 19th century; Lord Acton changed his mind on the matter twice, finally concluding that it was not.\n\nOver the centuries, the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre has inevitably aroused a great deal of controversy. Modern historians are still divided over the responsibility of the royal family:\n\n\n\nTraditional histories have tended to focus more on the roles of the political notables whose machinations began the massacre than the mindset of those who actually did the killing. Ordinary lay Catholics were involved in the mass killings; they believed they were executing the wishes of the king and of God. At this time, in an age before mass media, \"the pulpit remained probably the most effective means of mass communication\".\n\nDespite the large numbers of pamphlets and broadsheets in circulation, literacy rates were still poor. Thus, some modern historians have stressed the critical and incendiary role that militant preachers played in shaping ordinary lay beliefs, both Catholic and Protestant.\n\nHistorian Barbara B. Diefendorf, Professor of History at Boston University, wrote that Simon Vigor had \"said if the King ordered the Admiral (Coligny) killed, 'it would be wicked not to kill him'. With these words, the most popular preacher in Paris legitimised in advance the events of St. Bartholomew's Day\". Diefendorf says that when the head of the murdered Coligny was shown to the Paris mob by a member of the nobility, with the claim that it was the King's will, the die was cast. Another historian Mack P. Holt, Professor at George Mason University, agrees that Vigor, \"the best known preacher in Paris,\" preached sermons that were full of references to the evils that would befall the capital should the Protestants seize control. This view is also partly supported by Cunningham and Grell (2000) who explained that \"militant sermons by priests such as Simon Vigor served to raise the religious and eschatological temperature on the eve of the Massacre\".\n\nHistorians cite the extreme tension and bitterness that led to the powder-keg atmosphere of Paris in August 1572. In the previous ten years there had already been three outbreaks of civil war, and attempts by Protestant nobles to seize power in France. Some blame the complete esteem with which the sovereign's office was held, justified by prominent French Roman Catholic theologians, and that the special powers of French Kings \"...were accompanied by explicit responsibilities, the foremost of which was combating heresy.\"\n\nHolt, notable for re-emphasising the importance of religious issues, as opposed to political/dynastic power struggles or socio-economic tensions, in explaining the French Wars of Religion, also re-emphasised the role of religion in the St Bartholomew's Day Massacre. He noted that the extra violence inflicted on many of the corpses \"was not random at all, but patterned after the rites of the Catholic culture that had given birth to it.\" \"Many Protestant houses were burned, invoking the traditional purification by fire of all heretics. Many victims were also thrown into the Seine, invoking the purification by water of Catholic baptism\". Viewed as a threat to the social and political order, Holt argues that \"Huguenots not only had to be exterminated – that is, killed – they also had to be humiliated, dishonoured, and shamed as the inhuman beasts they were perceived to be.\"\n\nHowever Raymond Mentzer points out that Protestants \"could be as bloodthirsty as Catholics. Earlier Huguenot rage at Nimes (in 1567) led to... the massacre of a hundred or so Catholics, mostly priests and prominent laymen, at the hands of their Protestant neighbours. Few towns escaped the episodic violence and some suffered repeatedly from both sides. Neither faith had a monopoly on cruelty and misguided fervour\".\n\nSome, like Leonie Frieda, emphasise the element within the mob violence of the \"haves\" being \"killed by the 'have-nots'\". Many Protestants were nobles or bourgeois and Frieda adds that \"a number of bourgeois Catholic Parisians had suffered the same fate as the Protestants; many financial debts were wiped clean with the death of creditors and moneylenders that night\". At least one Huguenot was able to buy off his would-be murderers.\n\nThe historian H.G. Koenigsberger (who until his retirement in 1984 was Professor of History at King's College, University of London) wrote that the Massacre was deeply disturbing because \"it was Christians massacring other Christians who were not foreign enemies but their neighbours with which they and their forebears had lived in a Christian community, and under the same ruler, for a thousand years\". He concludes that the historical importance of the Massacre \"lies not so much in the appalling tragedies involved as their demonstration of the power of sectarian passion to break down the barriers of civilisation, community and accepted morality\".\n\nAn explanation of this may lie in the analysis of the massacre in terms of social anthropology by the religious historian Bruce Lincoln, who describes how the religious divide, which gave the Huguenots different patterns of dress, eating and pastimes, as well as the obvious differences of religion and (very often) class, had become a social schism or cleavage. The rituals around the royal marriage had only intensified this cleavage, contrary to its intentions, and the \"sentiments of estrangement – radical otherness – [had come] to prevail over sentiments of affinity between Catholics and Protestants\".\n\nOn 23 August 1997, Pope John Paul II, who was in Paris for the 12th World Youth Day, issued a statement on the Massacre. He stayed in Paris for three days and made eleven speeches. According to Reuters and the Associated Press, at a late-night vigil, with the hundreds of thousands of young people who were in Paris for the celebrations, he made the following comments: \"On the eve of Aug. 24, we cannot forget the sad massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day, an event of very obscure causes in the political and religious history of France. ... Christians did things which the Gospel condemns. I am convinced that only forgiveness, offered and received, leads little by little to a fruitful dialogue, which will in turn ensure a fully Christian reconciliation. ... Belonging to different religious traditions must not constitute today a source of opposition and tension. On the contrary, our common love for Christ impels us to seek tirelessly the path of full unity.\"\n\nThe Elizabethan dramatist Christopher Marlowe knew the story well from the Huguenot literature translated into English, and probably from French refugees who had sought refuge in his native Canterbury. He wrote a strongly anti-Catholic and anti-French play based on the events entitled 'The Massacre at Paris'. Also, in his biography \"The World of Christopher Marlowe\", David Riggs claims the incident remained with the playwright, and massacres are incorporated into the final acts of three of his early plays, \"1\" and \"2 Tamburlaine\" and \"The Jew of Malta\" – see above for Marlowe and Machiavellism.\n\nThe story was also taken up in 1772 by Louis-Sébastien Mercier in his play \"Jean Hennuyer, Bishop of Lizieux\", unperformed until the French Revolution. This play was translated into English, with some adaptations, as \"The Massacre\" by the actress and playwright Elizabeth Inchbald in 1792. Inchbald kept the historical setting, but \"The Massacre\", completed by February 1792, also reflected events in the recent French Revolution, though not the September Massacres of 1792, which coincided with its printing.\n\nJoseph Chénier's play \"Charles IX\" was a huge success during the French Revolution, drawing strongly anti-monarchical and anti-religious lessons from the massacre. Chénier was able to put his principles into practice as a politician, voting for the execution of Louis XVI and many others, perhaps including his brother André Chénier. However, before the collapse of the Revolution he became suspected of moderation, and in some danger himself.\nThe story was fictionalised by Prosper Mérimée in his \"Chronique du règne de Charles IX\" (1829), and by Alexandre Dumas, père in \"La Reine Margot\", an 1845 novel that fills in the history as it was then seen with romance and adventure. That novel has been translated into English and was made first into a commercially successful French film in 1954, \"La reine Margot\" (US title \"A Woman of Evil\"), starring Jeanne Moreau. It was remade in 1994 as \"La Reine Margot\" (later as \"Queen Margot\", and subtitled, in English-language markets), starring Isabelle Adjani.\n\nGiacomo Meyerbeer's opera \"Les Huguenots\" (1836), very loosely based on the events of the massacre, was one of the most popular and spectacular examples of French grand opera.\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelite painter John Everett Millais managed to create a sentimental moment in the massacre in his painting \"A Huguenot on St. Bartholomew's Day\" (1852), which depicts a Catholic woman attempting to convince her Huguenot lover to wear the white scarf badge of the Catholics and protect himself. The man, true to his beliefs, gently refuses her. Millais was inspired to create the painting after seeing Meyerbeer's \"Les Huguenots\".\n\nMark Twain described the massacre in \"From the Manuscript of 'A Tramp Abroad' (1879): The French and the Comanches,\" an essay about \"partly civilized races.\" He wrote in part, \"St. Bartholomew's was unquestionably the finest thing of the kind ever devised and accomplished in the world. All the best people took a hand in it, the King and the Queen Mother included.\"\n\nThe St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre and the events surrounding it were incorporated into D.W. Griffith's film \"Intolerance\" (1916). The film follows Catherine de' Medici (Josephine Crowell) plotting the massacre, coercing her son King Charles IX (Frank Bennett) to sanction it. Incidental characters include Henri of Navarre, Marguerite de Valois (Constance Talmadge), Admiral Coligny (Joseph Henabery) and the Duke of Anjou, who is portrayed as homosexual. These historic scenes are depicted alongside a fictional plot in which a Huguenot family is caught among the events.\n\nAnother novel depicting this massacre is \"Queen Jezebel\", by Jean Plaidy (1953). In the third episode of the BBC miniseries \"Elizabeth R\" (1971), starring Glenda Jackson as Queen Elizabeth I of England, the English court's reaction to the massacre and its effect on England's relations with France is addressed in depth.\n\nA 1966 serial in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\" entitled \"The Massacre of St Bartholomew's Eve\" is set during the events leading up to the Paris massacre. Leonard Sachs appeared as Admiral Coligny and Joan Young played Catherine de Medici. This serial is missing from the BBC archives and survives only in audio form.\n\nThe St Bartholomew's Day Massacre is the setting for Tim Willocks' historical novel, \"The Twelve Children of Paris\" (Matthias Tannhauser Trilogy:2) (2013), and Ken Follett's book A Column of Fire, published in 2017. Follett gives several of the book's main characters a role in the massacre and the events leading up to it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40655294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40655294", "title": "Violent extremism", "text": "Violent extremism\n\nViolent extremism refers to the beliefs and actions of people who support or use ideologically motivated violence to achieve radical ideological, religious or political views. Violent extremist views can be exhibited along a range of issues, including politics, religion and gender relations. No society, religious community or worldview is immune to violent extremism. Though “radicalization” is a contested term to some, it has come to be used to define the process through which an individual or a group considers violence as a legitimate and a desirable means of action. Radical thought that does not condone the exercise of violence to further political goals may be seen as normal and acceptable, and be promoted by groups working within the boundaries of the law. It is often used as a code name for Islamic terrorism.\n\nIn the American military domain, the term \"violent extremist organizations\" or VEO is now used. The Obama administration defines VEO as groups of \"individuals who support or commit ideologically motivated violence to further political goals\". These groups include both ideologically-motivated international terrorist organizations (ITO) and homegrown violent extremists (HVE).\n\nThere is no single profile or pathway for radicalization, or even speed at which it happens. Nor does the level of education seem to be a reliable predictor of vulnerability to radicalization. It is however established that there are socio-economic, psychological and institutional factors that lead to violent extremism. Specialists group these factors into three main categories, push factors, pull factors and contextual factors.\n\n“Push Factors” drive individuals to violent extremism, such as: marginalization, inequality, discrimination, persecution or the perception thereof; limited access to quality and relevant education; the denial of rights and civil liberties; and other environmental, historical and socio-economic grievances.\n\n“Pull Factors” nurture the appeal of violent extremism, for example: the existence of well-organized violent extremist groups with compelling discourses and effective programmes that are providing services, revenue and/or employment in exchange for membership. Groups can also lure new members by providing outlets for grievances and promise of adventure and freedom. Furthermore, these groups appear to offer spiritual comfort, “a place to belong” and a supportive social network.\n\nContextual factors that provide a favourable terrain to the emergence of violent extremist groups, such as: fragile states, the lack of rule of law, corruption and criminality.\n\nThe following behaviours in combination have been identified as signs of potential radicalization:\n\nThe role of education in preventing violent extremism and de-radicalizing young people has only recently gained global acceptance. An important step in this direction was the launch, in December 2015, of the UN Secretary-General’s Plan of Action to Prevent Violent Extremism which recognizes the importance of quality education to address the drivers of this phenomenon.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council also emphasized this point in its Resolutions 2178 and 2250, which notably highlights the need for “quality education for peace that equips youth with the ability to engage constructively in civic structures and inclusive political processes” and called on “ all relevant actors to consider instituting mechanisms to promote a culture of peace, tolerance, intercultural and interreligious dialogue that involve youth and discourage their participation in acts of violence, terrorism, xenophobia, and all forms of discrimination.”\n\nEducation has been identified as preventing radicalisation through:\n\nUNESCO has emphasised Global Citizenship Education (GCED) as an emerging approach to education that focuses on developing learners’ knowledge, skills, values and attitudes in view of their active participation in the peaceful and sustainable development of their societies. GCED aims to instill respect for human rights, social justice, gender equality and environmental sustainability, which are fundamental values that help raise the defences of peace against violent extremism.\n\nThe Sabaoon Project, initiated by the Pakistan Army and run by the Social Welfare Academics and Training organization (SWAaT) since 2009, has been implemented to deradicalize and rehabilitate former militant youth who were involved in violent extremist activities and apprehended by the army in Swat and the surrounding areas in Pakistan. Based on an individualized approach and intervention, the project follows a three-step model (see image).\n\nTo tackle the issue of violent extremism and radicalization in schools, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of Kenya launched a new national strategy targeting youth in 2014, entitled Initiatives to Address Radicalization of the Youth in Educational Institutions in the Republic of Kenya. The Strategy adopted measures that service the students’ interests and well-being. For example, it includes efforts to create child-friendly school environments and encourages students to participate in “talent academies” to pursue an area of their own interest.\n\nThe Strategy also includes the discontinuation of ranking schools based on academic performance. This was to lessen the overemphasis on examinations and to reduce student pressure, incorporating other indicators of student achievement, such as abilities in sport and artistic talent. The purpose is to reduce the stress of students’ lives at home and in school that may be vented through escape tactics, including joining outlawed groups. The Strategy also employs other effective means to prevent violent extremism, including the integration of Preventing of Violent Extremism through Education (PVE-E) in curricula and school programmes; adopting a multi- sectoral and multi-stakeholder approach; encouraging student participation through student governance processes and peer-to-peer education; and the involvement of media as a stakeholder.\n\nWhile it is being increasingly reported that women play an active role in violent extremist organizations and attacks as assailants and supporters, men are still more often the perpetrators of violent extremist acts and therefore the targets of recruitment campaigns.\n\n"}
{"id": "5522437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5522437", "title": "Ziad Al-Karbouly", "text": "Ziad Al-Karbouly\n\nZiad Khalaf al-Karbouly (زياد خلف الكربولي; 1970 - died 4 February 2015), a native of Al-Qa'im, was an Islamist former Iraqi officer and the son of an Iraqi tribal sheikh of the Al-Karabla clan of the Dulaim.\n\nHe was captured by Jordanian 71st Counter Terrorism Battalion with the aid of Jordanian intelligence officers in May 2006, and accused of being Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's assistant which Karbouly denied. Karbouly told the tribunal that he was “innocent”. He also disputed the prosecution’s version that he was captured inside Iraq in a joint operation of the Jordanian army and intelligence on 10 May. He told the tribunal that he was instead kidnapped “from Lebanon on May 6.”\n\nOn 23 May 2006, he admitted that he had abducted and killed citizens from Jordan and Iraq, and had abducted two Moroccans in October 2005.\n\nHe was sentenced to death, and along with failed suicide bomber Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi, was hanged on 4 February 2015, expedited in retaliation for the burning of Royal Jordanian Air Force lieutenant Muath al-Kasasbeh by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n"}
