{"id": "51942554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51942554", "title": "2016 California Proposition 56", "text": "2016 California Proposition 56\n\nProposition 56 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot. It increased the cigarette tax by $2.00 per pack, effective April 1, 2017, with equivalent increases on other tobacco products and electronic cigarettes containing nicotine. The bulk of new revenue is earmarked for Medi-Cal.\n\nA September 2016 poll by the Public Policy Institute of California showed that 59% of likely voters supported Proposition 56, 36% opposed it, and 5% did not know how they would vote. A September 2016 poll from USC Dornsife / Los Angeles Times showed 63% percent of registered voters in favor of Proposition 56, 32% opposed, and 6% unknown.\n\nProposition 56 was approved with 64% of the vote. Two previous attempts to increase the state cigarette tax narrowly failed with Proposition 86 in 2006 and Proposition 29 in 2012. Proposition 56 was the first increase in the state cigarette tax since Proposition 10 in 1998. With the passage of Prop. 56, California's cigarette tax increased from $0.87 per pack to $2.87, increasing its rank from 35th-highest in the country to ninth-highest.\n\n"}
{"id": "35672682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35672682", "title": "Antibiotic resistance in gonorrhea", "text": "Antibiotic resistance in gonorrhea\n\nThe Gonorrhea bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae has developed antibiotic resistance to many antibiotics.\n\nThe bacteria was first identified in 1879, although some Biblical scholars believe that references to the disease can be found as early as Parshat Metzora of the Old Testament.\n\nIn the 1940s effective treatment with penicillin became available, but by the 1970s resistant strains predominated. Resistance to penicillin has developed through two mechanisms: chromasomally mediated resistance (CMRNG) and penicillinase-mediated resistance (PPNG). CMRNG involves step wise mutation of penA, which codes for the penicillin-binding protein (PBP-2); mtr, which encodes an efflux pump that removes penicillin from the cell; and penB, which encodes the bacterial cell wall porins. PPNG involves the acquisition of a plasmid-borne beta-lactamase. \"N. gonorrheoea\" has a high affinity for horizontal gene transfer, and as a result, the existence of any strain resistant to a given drug could spread easily across strains.\n\nFluoroquinolones were a useful next-line treatment until resistance was achieved through efflux pumps and mutations to the gyrA gene, which encodes DNA gyrase. Third-generation cephalosporins have been used to treat gonorrhoea since 2007, but resistant strains have emerged. As of 2010, the recommended treatment is a single 250 mg intramuscular injection of ceftriaxone, sometimes in combination with azithromycin or doxycycline. However, certain strains of \"N. gonorrhoeae\" can be resistant to antibiotics usually that are normally used to treat it. These include: cefixime (an oral cephalosporin), ceftriaxone (an injectable cephalosporin), azithromycin, aminoglycosides, and tetracycline.\n\nBeta-lactams like penicillin were widely used to treat gonorrhea in the 1940s. There are three general mechanisms that may allow bacteria to become resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics:\nOveruse of penicillin contributed to \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" developing high resistance to penicillin through two main mechanisms: chromosomally mediated resistance (CMRNG) and penicillinase-mediated resistance (PPNG).\n\nChromosomally mediated resistance occurred through step-wise changes over many years. Chromosomal mutations in the \"penA\", \"mtr\", and \"penB\" genes are the major mechanisms for CMRNG. The \"penA\" gene encodes an alternative penicillin-binding protein, PBP-2. This mechanism falls under the second general mechanism for beta-lactam resistance. PBPs, also known as transpeptidases, are targets for beta-lactams. These enzymes (PBPs) are involved in peptidoglycan synthesis which is a major component of the bacterial cell wall. PBPs cross-link the amino acid strands of peptidoglycan during synthesis. Normally, beta-lactams bind the PBPs and thereby inhibit the cross-linking of peptidoglycan. When this occurs, the cell wall of the bacterium is compromised and often results in cell death. When \"N. gonorrhoeae\" encodes \"penA\", the new PBP-2 that is synthesized is no longer recognized by the beta-lactams rendering the bacterium resistant.\n\nThe \"mtr\" (multiple transferable resistance) gene encodes for an efflux pump. Efflux pumps mediate resistance to a variety of compounds including antibiotics, detergents, and dyes. This mechanism falls under the first general resistance mechanism to beta-lactams. \"mtr\" encodes for the protein MtrD which is the efflux pump for \"N. gonorrhoeae\". MtrD is among the Resistance Nodulation Division (RND) efflux pump superfamily. These pumps are proton antiporters where the antibiotic is pumped out of the cell while a proton is pumped into the cell.\n\nThe cell wall of \"N. gonorrhoeae\" contains porins which are holes within the cell wall in which some molecules are able to diffuse into or out of the cell membrane. This mechanism falls under the first general mechanism for beta-lactam resistance. The \"penB\" gene encodes the porins for \"N. gonorrhoeae\" and when this gene undergoes mutations, there is a decrease in permeability of the cell wall to hydrophilic antibiotics like penicillin.\n\nPenicillinase-mediated resistance in \"N. gonorrhoeae\" is mediated by the plasmid borne TEM-1 type beta-lactamase which falls under the third general mechanism for beta-lactam resistance. There have been over 200 beta-lactamases described and some of them are antibiotic specific. TEM-1 is a penicillinase specific for penicillins. This enzyme will bind to the beta-lactam ring which is a structural characteristic for beta-lactams and hydrolyze the ring. This renders the antibiotic inactive. The spread of the penicillinase resistance was much faster compared to the chromosomal-mediated resistance mechanisms. The plasmids containing TEM-1 could be passed from bacterium to bacterium via conjugation \n\nQuinolones are a class of synthetic antibiotics that inhibit DNA replication, recombination, and repair by interacting with the bacterial DNA gyrase and/or topoisomerase IV. Second generation quinolones like ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin have been widely used to treat \"N. gonorrhoeae\" infections. Resistance to these antibiotics has developed over the years with chromosomal resistance being the primary mechanism.\n\nLow-level quinolone resistance has been linked to changes in cell permeability and efflux pumps. The NorM efflux pump is encoded by the \"norM\" gene and provides resistance to fluoroquinolones. The NorM efflux pump is a member of the MATE (multidrug and toxic compound extrusion) family and functions by a Na+ antiporter. It is also known that a point mutation upstream of the \"norM\" gene will causes overexpression of NorM, and mediate elevated resistance.\n\nHigh-level resistance to quinolones has been seen through target modification acting on the DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV. Multiple amino acid substation mutations in the \"gyrA\" gene, which encodes for the DNA gyrase, have been seen extensively. DNA gyrase is an enzyme that binds to DNA and introduces negative supercoiling. This helps unwind the DNA for replication. If there is a mutation in the DNA gyrase, then the quinolone will not be able to bind to it resulting in the activity of DNA gyrase not being inhibited. Multiple mutations have also been noted in the \"parC\" gene which encodes for the topoisomerase IV. Topoisomerase IV acts similarly to DNA gyrase and is involved in unwinding DNA for replication.\n\nCeftriaxone and cefixime are third generation cephalosporins and are often used as treatments for \"N. gonorrhoeae infections\". The cephalosporins are part of a larger beta-lactam family of antibiotics. The newly discovered H041 strain of \"N. gonorrhoeae\", originally isolated from a commercial sex worker in Japan, was shown to be resistant to this antibiotic.\n\nThe possible mechanisms of resistance to this antibiotic are as follows:\n\nTetracyclines are a class of antibiotics that inhibit protein synthesis by binding to the 30s ribosomal subunit of bacterial cells, keeping transcription of the bacterial genome from occurring. Tetracyclines are bacteriostatic, which means that the growth of the bacterium will be slowed. Tetracyclines are not often recommended for the treatment of \"N. gonorrhoeae\" because the treatment regimen requires many doses, which may affect compliance and contribute to resistance. Tetracycline is still used as treatment for this infection in developing countries because the cost for the drug is low \n\nAs with the penicillin resistance, the \"penB\" (porin formation) and \"mtr\" (efflux pump formation) mutations mediate chromosomal resistance. These adaptations will also affect the ability of the antibiotic to get into, or stay in the bacterial cell. High level resistance of \"N. gonorrhoeae\" to tetracyclines was first reported in 1986 with the discovering of the \"tetM\" determinant. The mechanism of resistance is still unknown.\n\n\"N. gonorrhoeae\" has also shown resistance to the aminoglycoside class of antibiotics. These antibiotics bind to the 16s rRNA of the 30S subunit of the bacterial ribosome, thereby stopping transcription of the bacterial genome. Resistance appears to be acquired through porin-related mechanisms, much like the cephalosporin resistance mechanism. This mechanism would result in the access of the antibiotic to the bacterial cell being inhibited. There is a possibility of future enzymes (made by the bacterium) that will be able to denature and inactivate the aminoglycosides.\n\n"}
{"id": "320355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320355", "title": "Blood-borne disease", "text": "Blood-borne disease\n\nA bloodborne disease is a disease that can be spread through contamination by blood and other body fluids. Bloodborne pathogens are microorganisms such as viruses or bacteria. The most common examples are HIV, hepatitis B and viral hemorrhagic fevers.\n\nDiseases that are not usually transmitted directly by blood contact, but rather by insect or other vector, are more usefully classified as \"vector-borne disease\", even though the causative agent can be found in blood. Vector-borne diseases include West Nile virus, zika fever and malaria.\n\nMany bloodborne diseases can also be contracted by other means, including high-risk sexual behavior or intravenous drug use. These diseases have also been identified in sports medicine.\n\nSince it is difficult to determine what pathogens any given sample of blood contains, and some bloodborne diseases are lethal, standard medical practice regards all blood (and any body fluid) as potentially infectious. \"Blood and Body Fluid precautions\" are a type of infection control practice that seeks to minimize this sort of disease transmission.\n\nBlood poses the greatest threat to health in a laboratory or clinical setting due to needlestick injuries (\"e.g.\", lack of proper needle disposal techniques and/or safety syringes). These risks are greatest among healthcare workers, including: nurses, surgeons, laboratory assistants, doctors, phlebotomists, and laboratory technicians. These roles often require the use of syringes for blood draws or to administer medications.\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) prescribes 5 rules that are required for a healthcare facility to follow in order to reduce the risk of employee exposure to bloodborne pathogens. They are:\nThese controls, while general, serve to greatly reduce the incidence of bloodborne disease transmission in occupational settings of healthcare workers.\n\nThere are 26 different viruses that have been shown to present in healthcare workers as a result of occupational exposure. The most common bloodborne diseases are hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Exposure is possible through blood of an infected patient splashing onto mucous membranes; however, the greatest exposure risk was shown to occur during percutaneous injections performed for vascular access. These include blood draws, as well as catheter placement, as both typically use hollow bore needles.S Preventative measures for occupational exposure include standard precautions (hand washing, sharp disposal containers), as well as additional education and preventative measures. Advancements in the design of safety engineered devices have played a significant role in decreasing rates of occupational exposure to bloodborne disease. According to the Massachusetts Sharps Injury Surveillance System, needle devices without safety features accounted for 53% of the 2010 reported sharps injuries. Safer sharps devices now have engineering controls, such as a protective shield over the needle, and sharps containers that have helped to decrease this statistic. These safer alternatives are highly effective in substantially reducing injuries. For instance, almost 83% of injuries from hollow bore needles can be prevented with the use of safer sharps devices. \n\nBlood for blood transfusion is screened for many bloodborne diseases. Additionally, a technique that uses a combination of riboflavin and UV light to inhibit the replication of these pathogens by altering their nucleic acids can be used to treat blood components prior to their transfusion, and can reduce the risk of disease transmission.\n\nA technology using the synthetic psoralen, amotosalen HCl, and UVA light (320–400 nm) has been implemented in European blood centers for the treatment of platelet and plasma components to prevent transmission of bloodborne diseases caused by bacteria, viruses and protozoa.\n\nNeedle exchange programs (NEPs) are an attempt to reduce the spread of bloodborne diseases between intravenous drug users. They often also provide addiction counseling services, infectious disease testing, and in some cases mental health care and/or other case management. NEPs acquired their name as they were initially places where intravenous (IV) illicit substance users were provided with clean, unused needles in exchange for their used needles. This allows for proper disposal of the needles. Empirical studies confirm the benefits of NEPs. NEPs can affect behaviors that result in the transmission of HIV. These behaviors include decreased sharing of used syringes, which reduces contaminated syringes from circulation and replaces them with sterile ones, among other risk reductions.\n\nFollow standard precautions to help prevent the spread of bloodborne pathogens and other diseases whenever there is a risk of exposure to blood or other bodily fluids. Standard precautions include maintaining personal hygiene and using personal protective equipment (PPE), engineering controls, and work practice controls among others. Always avoid contact with blood and other bodily fluids. Wear disposable gloves when providing care, particularly if you may come into contact with blood or bodily fluids. Dispose properly of gloves and change gloves when providing care to a new patient. Use needles with safety devices to help prevent needlestick injury and exposure to bloodborne pathogens.\n\nA hierarchy of controls can help to prevent environmental and occupational exposures and subsequent diseases. These include:\n\nElimination: Physically remove hazards, including needles that lack a safety device. Additionally, eliminate the use of needle devices whenever safe and effective alternatives are available.\n\nSubstitution: Replace needles without safety devices with ones that have a safety feature built in. This has been shown to reduce bloodborne diseases transmitted via needlestick injuries.\n\nEngineering controls: Isolate people from the hazard by providing sharps containers for workers to immediately place needles in after use.\n\nAdministrative controls: Change the way people work by creating a culture of safety such as avoiding recapping or bending needles that may be contaminated and promptly disposing of used needle devices and other sharps. \n\nPersonal protective equipment: Protect workers with PPE such as gloves and masks to avoid transmission of blood and other bodily fluids.\n\n"}
{"id": "39289178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39289178", "title": "Brian Abel-Smith", "text": "Brian Abel-Smith\n\nBrian Abel-Smith (6 November 1926 – 4 April 1996) was a British economist and expert adviser and one of the most influential figures of the twentieth century in shaping health and social welfare. In Britain, his research for the Guillebaud committee in 1956 proved that the NHS provided extremely good value for money and deserved more investment. From the 1960s he was one of a new breed of special advisers to Labour government ministers – helping Richard Crossman, Barbara Castle and David Ennals to reconfigure the NHS, set up RAWP, and the Black Inquiry into Health Inequalities. Internationally, he steered the development of health services in over 50 countries. He was a key WHO and EEC adviser, intimately involved in setting the agenda for global campaigns such as Health for All by the year 2000.\n\nAbel-Smith was born at 24 Kensington Court Gardens, London, the younger son of Brigadier-General Lionel Abel-Smith (1870–1946), and his wife, Genevieve Lilac, née Walsh (1898–1980). His elder brother, Lionel Abel-Smith (1924–2011), inherited the title and estate of Lord of the Manor of Wendover, in Buckinghamshire. They were distantly related to the royal family, and friends wickedly introduced him as twenty-seventh in line to the crown.\n\nAbel-Smith was educated at Hordle House Preparatory School (1935–39) and Haileybury College (1940–1945), before entering the army for his National Service. He was commissioned in the Oxford and Buckinghamshire light infantry in 1946 and was ADC [aide-de-camp] to Sir John Winterton, the military governor of the British zone in Austria during 1947–8. He entered Clare College, Cambridge in 1948, graduating with a II.i in Economics in 1951. He was an active member of the Cambridge Union and the University Labour Club.\n\nAbel-Smith remained at Cambridge to study for a PhD under the supervision of the economist Joan Robinson. From 1953 he aligned his research to fit with his appointment as research assistant at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (under the supervision of Professor Richard Titmuss of the Department of Social Administration at the London School of Economics) to assist with the Guillebaud Enquiry on the cost of the National Health Service (NHS). His investigation, which demonstrated that the NHS was actually very good value for money and needed further investment, has been described as 'a minor classic of modern social analysis' [C. Webster, The Health Services Since the War Vol.1, (London, HMSO, 1988) p. 207]. He was awarded a Cambridge PhD in 1955, and in the same year Titmuss appointed him as an Assistant Lecturer in his department at the LSE. He was promoted to lecturer in 1957, reader in social administration in 1961, and full professor in 1965. He retired in 1991, but returned to work part-time with Elias Mossialos to establish the LSE Health unit.\n\nBrian Abel-Smith's research interests in health and social welfare were underpinned by his commitment to socialism. He focused on the impact of the new post-war British welfare state, publishing regular articles and books in the academic and mainstream press to highlight persistent inequalities in health and social welfare that Beveridge's model had not adequately addressed. His first publication was for the Fabian Society in 1953: The Reform of Social Security. He collaborated with the sociologist Peter Townsend – who also moved to work with Titmuss at the LSE in 1957 – on projects on poverty, pensions and social security. They conducted a major study using a new method of constructing a poverty line that demonstrated that poverty had increased in Britain in the 1950s. Their 1965 book, \"The Poor and the Poorest\", was used to launch the Child Poverty Action Group, which Abel-Smith remained closely involved with for the rest of his life.\n\nAnother of Abel-Smith's key research interests was the financing and development of health services. Following on from his work on the Guillebaud Report on the cost of the NHS, he was invited in 1958 to lead a multi-agency project for the World Health Organization on the costs of health care in six countries. He produced the first comparative classifications, which became the standard for reporting health care expenditure. Although his background was in economics, he was increasingly interested in the finance and management of health services. He gained first-hand experience of the British NHS through his appointment as a governor to a number of regional boards and London hospital management committees in the 1960s, including St Thomas' hospital.\n\nHis ideas on health and social welfare financing reflected his engagement with leading international health economists and social policy theorists such as Wilbur Cohen, Ida Merriam, Milton Roemer and Dorothy Rice, and he was regularly invited into expert advisory groups. He collaborated with Archie Cochrane in the early 1970s, resulting in his classic book Value for Money in the Health Services (1976), which explored strategies for cost containment, effectiveness and efficiency. As his experience through advising developing countries increased, he moved away from his ideological commitment to fully state-funded services, and embraced the concept of social insurance and, in the 1990s, the potential offered by user charges.\n\nWhile at Cambridge, Abel-Smith had been identified by Hugh Dalton as a potential future Labour MP. He began political campaigning, but when he was offered the nomination for Dalton's safe seat in 1957 he turned it down, worried that if his homosexuality were revealed that it would cause embarrassment for his family. Instead he played a key role in modernising the Fabian Society and served it for 31 years as executive committee member, treasurer and vice-president. From the mid-1950s he served on various Labour Party working parties and committees, providing policy ideas on pensions and social security. The Fabian pamphlet he had co-authored with Townsend, New Pensions for the Old, was used by Richard Crossman as the basis for a radical revision of Labour's social welfare system. When Crossman was appointed as Secretary of State for Social Services in 1968 he invited Abel-Smith to become his part-time adviser, one of the first such posts in British government. Abel-Smith advised issues including the re-structuring of the NHS and helped to set up an enquiry into the Ely Hospital scandal in Cardiff. When Labour lost the 1970 general election Crossman wrote in his diary that Abel-Smith 'has been my closest personal friend and without him I could have done very little in the past two years'. [R. Crossman, Diaries of a Cabinet Minister: volume three: Secretary of State for Social Services 1968–70 (London, Hamish Hamilton and Jonathan Cape, 1977), p. 921. Entry for 14 May 1970.]\n\nWhen Labour returned to government in 1974 Abel-Smith was re-appointed as a special adviser by the new Secretary of State for Social Services, Barbara Castle. He helped her, and her successor David Ennals, to introduce a new pensions scheme [SERPS]; set up the Resource Allocation Working Party [RAWP] to allocate NHS resources to regions according to health needs, and to set up the Black Report into inequalities in health. When he was working for Barbara Castle she appointed Jack Straw as political adviser. 'Let me be clear', she said to Straw, 'I have appointed Brian for his brilliance. I have appointed you for your low cunning.' At the end of her cabinet career she wrote that 'Brian's steady, informed and perceptive help is a tower of strength' [B. Castle, \"The Castle Diaries 1974–76\" (London, Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1980), p. 721]. In 1978, frustrated with tensions between the government, NHS and the medical profession, he accepted an offer to work as special adviser to Peter Shore, Secretary of State for the Environment, where he tackled housing and urban planning issues. After the defeat of Labour at the 1979 general election, Abel-Smith was asked by a number of health policy think thanks such as the Kings Fund and the Nuffield Trust to advise on reforming aspects of British healthcare.\n\nAbel-Smith's wider command of social policy included legal institutions. His capacity for penetrating, indeed adventurous, analysis led to one of the most original contributions to the role of law of the twentieth century. His book with Robert Stevens, Lawyers and the Courts (1967), was a sociological study of the English legal system from 1750 to 1965 which showed its social origins and mode of control and helped to make an unanswerable case for root-and-branch modernisation. The sequel, In Search of Justice (1968), demonstrated the failings of the legal system as a social service. He served on Citizens Advice Bureau committees and in 1973 he co-wrote (with Michael Zander) Legal Problems and the Citizen.\n\nParallel to his academic post at LSE and his appointments as special adviser to Labour governments, Abel-Smith regularly worked as a freelance consultant for international organisations, including the World Health Organization, the International Labour Organization and the World Bank. One of the first of these missions (for the British government in collaboration with Richard Titmuss) was to Mauritius (1959–1961), where their controversial recommendation to introduce a family planning service was adopted. After his death the Mauritius government issued a set of commemorative stamps to mark his contribution to the establishment of the country's health service.\n\nIn 1976 he was invited to become a European Economic Community [EEC] adviser to the Directorate of Social Affairs. He worked closely with the Commissioner Henk Vredeling on establishing European standards for healthcare and social welfare, especially on controlling costs of pharmaceuticals. In the early 1980s he was appointed to lead the European response to the WHO global initiative Health for All by the Year 2000, and in 1984 he accepted an invitation from Halfdan Mahler, Director General of WHO, to become his personal adviser. During the 1980s and 1990s, Abel-Smith travelled widely to advise on country-level and regional policies. He continued to advocate policies based on socialist and egalitarian principles, which increasingly brought him into conflict with staff at the World Bank, whose neo-liberal ideology seemed to threaten core values of risk sharing and social capital in health and social welfare systems.\n\nAbel-Smith met his partner, the actor and landscape gardener John Sarbutt, in 1960. They lived between London and Westwell in Kent, where they created a large garden together. Abel-Smith was a fine cook and raconteur, and enjoyed skiing and swimming. In 1965 he founded an exclusive menswear business in Tryon Street, London, called Just Men. It thrived for nearly twenty years, expanding to a number of branches, including one in Philadelphia, with Abel-Smith and Sarbutt travelling each year to Italy to buy the latest styles. Regular customers included film stars and musicians such as The Rolling Stones, Joan Collins and Warren Beatty.\n\nHe died of carcinoma of the pancreas at his home in London, 10 Denbigh Street, Westminster, on 4 April 1996.\n\nTwenty-five of his 37 books, and 98 of his 166 published articles and papers were on health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53030256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53030256", "title": "Cannabis in Greenland", "text": "Cannabis in Greenland\n\nCannabis in Greenland is illegal, but is used illicitly in the country. Scholarly works in 2010 and 2015 noted increasing cannabis crime in the nation.\n"}
{"id": "52342306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52342306", "title": "Cannabis in Poland", "text": "Cannabis in Poland\n\nPossession of most drugs for recreational use, including cannabis, is illegal in Poland. It was classified as a narcotic in 1951 but it was not until 1999 that possession and use of the drug became a crime. Since 2011, prosecutors have the discretion to drop the charges if the quantity of drugs seized is only a small amount. The medical use of cannabis was legalized in 2017.\n\nLike in most countries, cannabis spread to Poland naturally, several thousand years ago. It has been cultivated for most of the last millennium. Similarly, until the early 20th century it was a legal substance, used in medicine and recreation.\n\nThe Second Polish Republic was one of the signatories to the 1925 International Opium Convention, which entered into force in 1928, which imposed some restrictions on the trade and production of cannabis and related goods. Cannabis was first explicitly mentioned in Polish legislation of 1930, and classified as harmful to health. The People's Republic of Poland's legislation of 1951 classified cannabis as a narcotic, and successive legislation made production and dealing in it illegal, however possession and use were not a crime until 1997. The Polish legislation of 1997 was the first that criminalized possession of narcotics, including cannabis.\n\nSince 2011 prosecutors can elect to drop the charges if the amount of drugs seized is of a limited quantity (although no set limit is explicitly stated) and the drugs seized are believed to be for personal consumption only.\n\nOn 26 May 2011, Poland introduced legislation that would give prosecutors the option to not prosecute for possession of small quantities of cannabis for personal use, if it is a first offence, or if the person is drug dependent. The legislation raised the maximum possible penalty for dealing a large quantity of drugs from 10 to 12 years in prison, and the penalty for possession of large quantities of drugs would result in up to 10 years in prison (previously up to 8 years).\n\nIn the 2010s following a growing movement in support of legalizing cannabis for medical use, Poland has moved towards decriminalizing cannabis, with governments discussing several legislation variants, including one proposed by the Kukiz'15 party, and other forms of support from parties such as Twój Ruch. Legalization of cannabis has been publicly supported by Polish politicians such as Janusz Palikot, Ryszard Kalisz and Janusz Korwin Mikke, and public figures (journalists, artists, scientists) such as Piotr Bikont, Andrzej Chyra, Magdalena Cielecka, Agnieszka Holland, Zbigniew Hołdys, Krzysztof Krauze, Mikołaj Lizut, Robert Makłowicz, Tomasz Sikora, Jerzy Pilch and Stanisław Soyka and Jerzy Vetulani.\n\nPoland legalized the medical use of cannabis in July 2017. The law went into effect in November 2017.\n\nAccording to 2013 data, 17.3% adults in Poland had used cannabis at least once in their lifetime, and 17.1% of young adults used it at least once in the past year. There were signs that cannabis use is becoming popular.\n"}
{"id": "53173421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53173421", "title": "Cannabis in São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Cannabis in São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nCannabis in São Tomé and Principe is illegal, but is trafficked illicitly. In the 1890s, Portuguese Angolans sold \"notable quantities\" to Angolan laborers in São Tomé, despite cannabis growing prolifically in the vicinity of the laborers' quarters.\n"}
{"id": "4818722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818722", "title": "Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology", "text": "Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology\n\nThe Certification Commission for Health Information Technology (CCHIT) was an independent, 501(c)3 nonprofit organization with the public mission of accelerating the adoption of robust, interoperable health information technology. The Commission certified electronic health record technology from 2006 until 2014. It was approved by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as an Authorized Testing and Certification Body (ONC-ATCB). The CCHIT Certified program is an independently developed certification that includes a rigorous inspection of an EHR’s integrated functionality, interoperability and security using criteria developed by CCHIT’s broadly representative, expert work groups. These products may also be certified in the ONC-ATCB certification program.\n\nCCHIT was founded in 2004 with support from three leading industry associations in healthcare information management and technology: the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA), the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) and the National Alliance for Health Information Technology (the Alliance). In September 2005, CCHIT was awarded a 3-year contract by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and evaluate the certification criteria and inspection process for EHRs and the networks through which they interoperate. In October 2006, HHS officially designated CCHIT as a Recognized Certification Body (RCB). In July 2010, HHS published new rules for recognizing testing and certification bodies, scheduled to take effect when it named the new bodies. In September 2010, the Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) of HHS named CCHIT again under these new rules. CCHIT is an ONC Authorized Testing and Certification Body (ONC-ATCB).\n\n\nCCHIT focused its first efforts on EHR products for the office-based physician and provider and began commercial certification in May 2006.\n\nCCHIT then developed a process of certification for inpatient EHR products and launched that program in 2007.\n\nCCHIT then assessed the need for, and potential benefit of, certifying EHR for specialty medicine, special care settings, and special-needs populations.\n\nCCHIT, in a collaboration with the MITRE Corporation, also developed an open-source program called Laika to test EHR software for compliance with federally named interoperability standards.\n\nIn January 2014, Information Week reported that CCHIT would exit the EHR certification business. \n\nOn November 14, 2014, CCHIT ceased all operations.\n\n\nThe Commission, chaired by Karen Bell, M.D., M.M.S, was composed of 21 members each serving two-year terms.\n\nCertified EHR products benefit many interested groups and individuals:\n\nCCHIT and its volunteer work groups strove to fairly represent the interests of each of these diverse groups in an open forum, communicating the progress of its work and seeking input from all quarters. CCHIT received the endorsements of a number of professional medical organizations, including the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Physicians, the Physicians' Foundation for Health Systems Excellence and Physicians' Foundation for Health Systems Innovation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37437237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37437237", "title": "Children with Special Healthcare Needs in the United States", "text": "Children with Special Healthcare Needs in the United States\n\nChildren with Special Healthcare Needs (CSHCN) are defined by the Maternal and Child Health Bureau as: \n\nThere are a wide variety of physical, mental, and psychological health conditions considered to be special healthcare needs in the United States. They range from relatively mild to chronic and severe. The functional impairments of CSHCN include problems with one or more of the following criteria: breathing, swallowing/digestion/metabolism, blood circulation, chronic pain, hearing even with corrective devices, seeing even with corrective devices, taking care of self, coordination/moving around, learning/understanding/paying attention, speaking/communicating, making/keeping friends, and behavior. The list below states health conditions considered to be special healthcare needs. \n\nAs of 2009, 15.1% of all children in the US are considered to have special healthcare needs, and one out of every five households in the United States has at least one child with special healthcare needs, representing a significant segment of the nation's population.\n\nThe prevalence of children with special healthcare needs in the population depends on several factors, including gender, age, socioeconomic level and family household education. In the National Survey of Children's Health Data in 2007, gender is the strongest predictor of special health care needs—about 60% of children with special health care needs are boys and 30% are girls. A study by Newacheck et al. found that age is also a strong predictor, as school-age children are found to be twice as likely as toddlers to require special needs care, and this prevalence continues to increase as children grow older. Families with income below the federal poverty level are 1/3 more likely to have children with special health care needs, and families with 12 or fewer years of education have increased prevalence of a child with SHCN as well. Family structure also correlates with this prevalence—for single-mother families are 40% more likely to have a CSHCN than two-parent households.\n\nIn a comprehensive study by the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), using the 2007 National Survey of Children's Health data, it was found that children with SHCN when compared to those children without SHCN, face more inadequacies in healthcare, education, health of family, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. CSHCN face more difficulties with accessing mental health care as well as having a medical home. A medical home is one of the standards of administering healthcare recommended by the Maternal and Child Health Bureau. In school, these children have an increased risk of missing class, being disengaged in the classroom, and repeating a grade. They also have more cases of inadequate sleep every night in comparison to their peers. CSHCN are more likely to not exercise the recommended four times a week, and they have higher chance of being overweight/obese. They also face increased challenges in making friends. The parents of CSHCN have challenges as well. The study by HRSA, found that the parents of special needs children experience more stress, decreased health, and more questioning of their parenting skills.\n\nDespite these challenges, children with SHCN fare better than non-affected children in preventative health care and preventative dental care. They have a higher rate of having health insurance then normal children. They more frequently complete the recommended annual primary care visit, and bi-annual dentist visit. They also have a tendency to use more Developmental Screening, especially those with public healthcare. Developmental screening is used by doctors to check and evaluate for proper child development over time on a physical and cognitive level. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends visits for developmental screening at ages 9,18 and at 24–30 months.\n\nEmotional and behavioral disorders (EBD) are disorders that include ADD/ADHD, anxiety, ASD, depression, OCD/conduct disorder, developmental delay and Tourette's Syndrome, and they increase the challenges CSHCN face. 40% of CSHCN have an EBD and 80% of these children also experience another health problem along with their EBD, according to the 2007 National Survey of Children's Health. The Health Resources and Services Administration found that these disorders are associated with an even greater decrease in quality of family-life, education and healthcare. Parent's health worsens and stress increases when they have children with an EBD. These EBD children miss more classes and are more disengaged in class than non-EBD CSHCN. EBD-CSHCN experience reduced family center-care and effective care-coordination. They also face greater difficulty in their ability to make friends than non-EBD CSHCN.\n\nA systematic review of randomized controlled trials found evidence that\n\n\nThe United States governments employs several different programs in order to provide insurance and care for CSHCN. These include Title V grants, Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). These three programs vary in their definition and eligibility of care for CSHCN.\n\nMedicaid is the program implemented under Title XIX of the Social Security Act. It is a public insurance program that provides mandatory services for patients such as: \nMedicaid requires no co-payment or deductibles. To be eligible for the program one must be in one of four categories. The first is income level, the second is disability criteria, the third is eligibility for institutional level of care, and the fourth is out of home placement. Many CSHCN qualify for Medicaid based on low income level, but some children qualify independently of income level due to their disabilities. Medicaid has a more restrictive definition of disabilities and special healthcare needs than the Maternal and Children's Health Bureau (MCHB), and defines special needs as needs that must impede daily functioning. Medicaid accepts children who need to receive Supplemental Security Income program money, and children who are defined as medically needy. Medically needy children are those whose families have above the maximum income to receive Medicaid, but due to health expenditures their income is lowered to the level required. 40 states currently offer this program. Medicaid programs in each state are administered differently, and federal dollars go to each state based on per capita income levels. As of 2010, the Medicaid program had 405 billion dollars for the entire program. With the new Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, by 2014 state Medicaid levels will rise to 138% of the Federal Poverty Line, increasing the number of CSHCN receiving Medicaid.\n\nThis program, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), was created with Title XXI of the Social Security Act, and is meant to cover the gap between children who qualify for Medicaid and those who can afford private insurance. It covers children up to nineteen years of age and many states also choose to help insure pregnant women. 46 of the states and the District of Columbia insure up to 200% of the Federal Poverty Line. CHIP receives its funding from the federal government but it is capped, unlike Medicaid. CSHCN who use CHIP receive all of the same federally mandated programs that Medicaid must offer. The program also requires that mental health services be offered as equally as physical health services.\n\nThis Social Security Act, Title V, states that $850,000,000 in grant money is to be allotted starting in 2001 and every year after to the states in order to accomplish health goals of the Public Health Service Act as well as the goals of Title V. The Title V grant money is set out to specifically affect CSHCN in several ways. First, it requires states to provide rehabilitation services for blind or disabled individuals under the age of 16. It also allocates money to projects of both national and state importance that help maternal and child health as well as children with special healthcare needs. The act requires that there are community-based programs such as daycare that help provide for CSHCN. Another requirement is the creation of family-to-family health information centers that assist families with CSHCN to make informed decisions regarding healthcare and resources.\n\nThis program works with the Maternal and Child Health Bureau, and employs their definition of CSHCN as stated earlier. Title V does not provide as much money as CHIP or Medicaid, but is used to fill the gaps where these programs do not cover. The Title V money is used to help with the Early Periodic Screening Diagnosis and Treatment Program (EPSDT) that is employed by Medicaid to test children. Title V shares the data collection responsibility of these three programs as well as develops educational materials. The Title V programs also have the goal to promote community-based services for all children as well as to promote coordinated care for families.\n\nChildren with special healthcare needs require more healthcare for their various health conditions as well as more types of therapies and treatments. Therapies include occupational therapy, physical therapy, and speech-language pathology among others.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) medical home model is the suggested form of healthcare administration for children with special health care needs due to their increased healthcare needs. In a study by Judith Palfrey et al. it was found to indicate improved health and increase patient satisfaction. This model as defined by the AAP is a total coordination of care for infants, children and adolescents. It consists of a primary physician, preferably a pediatrician, that a child and their family know well and who is a medical advocate for the care of the child. All medical care in the medical home is accessible, continuous, comprehensive, family-centered, compassionate and coordinated. This model requires several elements: \nThe pediatrician assumes the ultimate responsibility for all care that is provided for the child even though other medical professionals are involved. Currently, 48.9% of CSHCN have access to a medical home while 59.6% of non-affected children have access to a medical home. \n\nTherapies for children with special healthcare needs can be accessed via public schools or private therapists. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) includes occupational and physical therapy as well as other therapies, as part of the special education that should be offered in all public schools to CSHCN. This act states that all children with disabilities should have access to education that suits their SHCN, including needed therapies. Out of school therapies can also be used be employed by children with SHCN but \nonly 3.2% of CSHCN qualify for uses of special therapy under their insurance programs.\n\nOne type of therapy for children with SHCN is occupational therapy. Occupational therapists work with CSHCN by supporting them and their families to learn how to participate in everyday routines and daily activities. They encourage children with physical, cognitive, communication and behavior challenges to develop ways to live, play, learn and make friends despite their special needs. Occupational therapists can work with these children and their schools to create more accommodating learning environments. Another skill these professionals teach to children with SHCN is how to use adaptive equipment such as wheelchairs, eating aids and braces in daily life. Some occupational therapists try to work with very young children at risk for SHCN in order to try and prevent future disability through occupational therapy.\n\nThe types of insurance vary for children with special healthcare needs, 9.3% of CSHCN have no insurance at all, 52.4% have private insurance, 35.9% have public insurance and 8.2% have some combination of both public and private. Insurance gaps and other health costs affect 21.6% of families with CSHCN, who state that they face financial problems due to their CSHCN. In total, 34.3% of these families believe that their current insurance is not adequate in providing for all of their additional healthcare costs.\n\nThe Maternal and Child Health Bureau requires services to be available that are necessary for CSHCN to transition to all aspects of adult life. 90% of Adolescents with SHCN (ASHCN) are expected to live into adulthood, and access to healthcare decreases as ASHCN grow older according to the Maternal and Child Health Bureau. Youth lose health coverage they received in the past from programs like CHIP as well as Supplemental Security Income once they reach the ages of 18-21. Adult healthcare providers are not as familiar with childhood onset conditions as pediatricians. A study by Jane Park et al. found that mental health conditions increase in prevalence as children get older and age into adulthood, and ASHCN who have mental health conditions (with or without physical conditions) fare worse on their transition to adult healthcare. The MCHB recommends that children should have their transition to adult healthcare be mediated and provided for by their doctors. The Bureau requires that doctors need to have discussed with the adolescents with SHCN and their families three points: how to transition to adult primary care doctors as opposed to pediatricians, how health needs will change as the youth become adults, and how to maintain health insurance as an adult. The doctor is also supposed to encourage youth to take responsibility for their own health needs. Currently 60% of doctors of adolescents with SHCN do not meet these criteria.\n\nAnother recommendation for healthcare providers by the Maternal and Child Health Bureau is the creation of a written Healthcare Transition (HCT) plan. According to a study by Peter Scal and Marjorie Ireland, 30.08% of ASHCN had discussed such a plan. It was also found that adolescents who were older and who had more complicated needs were more likely to have an HCT.\n\nThe Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act passed by the Obama administration in 2010 sets forth new requirements for ability of adolescents with SHCN to transition healthcare services from pediatric services. The Act also expands their ability to pay for and access these services. It states three criteria that must be met for adolescents. First, adolescents need to have access to a comprehensive healthcare system that they can find a way to pay for, as well as be able to navigate the system. Second, preventable health problems need to be successfully prevented. Third, chronic conditions need to be managed and the transition to adult healthcare needs to be assured. Skills that ASHCN are recommended to possess to accomplish these goals include the ability to describe their own illness, know their own medication and dosages, know how to contact a clinician, and the ability to schedule appointments and call in for refills.\n"}
{"id": "3800988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3800988", "title": "Choroideremia", "text": "Choroideremia\n\nChoroideremia (; CHM) is a rare, X-linked recessive form of hereditary retinal degeneration that affects roughly 1 in 50,000 males. The disease causes a gradual loss of vision, starting with childhood night blindness, followed by peripheral vision loss, and progressing to loss of central vision later in life. Progression continues throughout the individual's life, but both the rate of change and the degree of visual loss are variable among those affected, even within the same family.\n\nChoroideremia is caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the \"CHM\" gene which encodes Rab escort protein 1 (REP1), a protein involved in lipid modification of Rab proteins. While the complete mechanism of disease is not fully understood, the lack of a functional protein in the retina results in cell death and the gradual deterioration of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), photoreceptors, and the choroid.\n\nAs of 2018, there is no treatment for choroideremia; however, retinal gene therapy clinical trials have demonstrated a possible treatment.\n\nSince the \"CHM\" gene is located on the X chromosome, symptoms are seen almost exclusively in men. While there are a few exceptions, female carriers have a noticeable lack of pigmentation in the RPE but do not experience any symptoms. Female carriers have a 50% chance of having either an affected son or a carrier daughter, while a male with choroideremia will have all carrier daughters and unaffected sons.\nEven though the disease progression can vary significantly, there are general trends. The first symptom many individuals with choroideremia notice is a significant loss of night vision, which begins in youth. Peripheral vision loss occurs gradually, starting as a ring of vision loss, and continuing on to \"tunnel vision\" in adulthood. Individuals with choroideremia tend to maintain good visual acuity into their 40s, but eventual lose all sight at some point in the 50-70 age range. A study of 115 individuals with choroideremia found that 84% of patients under the age of 60 had a visual acuity of 20/40 or better, while 33% of patients over 60 years old had a visual acuity of 20/200 or worse. The most severe visual acuity impairment (only being able to count fingers or worse) did not occur until the seventh decade of life. The same study found the mean rate of visual acuity loss to be about 0.09 logMAR per 5 years, which is roughly 1 row on a Snellen chart.\n\nA diagnosis of choroideremia can be made based on family history, symptoms, and the characteristic appearance of the fundus. However, choroideremia shares several clinical features with retinitis pigmentosa, a similar but broader group of retinal degenerative diseases, making a specific diagnosis difficult without genetic testing. Because of this choroideremia is often initially misdiagnosed as retinitis pigmentosa. A variety of different genetic testing techniques can be used to make a differential diagnosis.\n\nWhile nothing currently can be done to stop or reverse the retinal degeneration, there are steps that can be taken to slow the rate of vision loss. UV-blocking sunglasses for outdoors, appropriate dietary intake of fresh fruit and leafy green vegetables, antioxidant vitamin supplements, and regular intake of dietary omega-3 very-long-chain fatty acids are all recommended. \nOne study found that a dietary supplement of lutein increases macular pigment levels in patients with choroideremia. Over a long period of time, these elevated levels of pigmentation could slow retinal degeneration. Additional interventions that may be needed include surgical correction of retinal detachment and cataracts, low vision services, and counseling to help cope with depression, loss of independence, and anxiety over job loss.\n\nGene therapy is currently not a treatment option, however human clinical trials for both choroideremia and Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA) have produced somewhat promising results.\n\nClinical trials of gene therapy for patients with LCA began in 2008 at three different sites. In general, these studies found the therapy to be safe, somewhat effective, and promising as a future treatment for similar retinal diseases.\n\nIn 2011, the first gene therapy treatment for choroideremia was administered. The surgery was performed by Robert MacLaren, Professor of Ophthalmology at the University of Oxford and leader of the Clinical Ophthalmology Research Group at the Nuffield Laboratory of Ophthalmology (NLO).\n\nIn the study, 2 doses of the AAV.REP1 vector were injected subretinally in 12 patients with choroideremia. \nThere study had 2 objectives:\nDespite retinal detachment caused by the injection, the study observed initial improved rod and cone function, warranting further study.\n\nIn 2016, researchers were optimistic that the positive results of 32 choroideremia patients treated over four and a half years with gene therapy in four countries could be long-lasting.\n\nFor women who carry a mutation in the CHM gene, preimplantation genetic diagnosis can be used during the in-vitro fertilization process to select unaffected embryos to implant. This process call be applied to any monogenic disease.\n\nWhile choroideremia is an ideal candidate for gene therapy there are other potential therapies that could restore vision after it has been lost later in life. Foremost of these is stem cell therapy. A clinical trial published in 2014 found that a subretinal injection of human embryonic stem cells in patients with age-related macular degeneration and Stargardt disease was safe and improved vision in most patients. Out of 18 patients, vision improved in 10, improved or remained the same in 7, and decreased in 1 patient, while no improvement was seen in the untreated eyes. The study found \"no evidence of adverse proliferation, rejection, or serious ocular or systemic safety issues related to the transplanted tissue.\" A 2015 study used CRISPR/Cas9 to repair mutations in patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells that cause X-linked retinitis pigmentosa. This study suggests that a patient's own repaired cells could be used for therapy, reducing the risk of immune rejection and ethical issues that come with the use of embryonic stem cells.\n\nChoroideremia was first described in 1872 by an Austrian ophthalmologist, Ludwig Mauthner. Initially the condition was thought to be a developmental disorder which caused the absence of a majority of the choroid (hence the probable use of the ancient Greek suffix “eremia,” meaning barren land or desert). After several decades the non-progressive nature of the disease was questioned, eventually being rejected by Paymerer et al. in 1960. The \"CHM\" gene was identified and cloned in 1990 by Frans P.M. Cremers.\n\nIn many inherited retinal diseases the protein affected by the mutation is directly involved in the light sensing function of the eye, however this is not the case in choroideremia. REP1 assists the prenylation of Rab G-proteins by binding and presenting them to the Rab geranylgeranyltransferase subunit. REP1 also escorts prenylated Rabs through the cytoplasm by binding the hydrophobic prenyl groups and carrying them to a specific destination membrane.\n\nIn healthy individuals, REP1 is found throughout all of the cells of the body, however patients with choroideremia only experience vision loss, and not broader, systemic symptoms (with the exception of a study that found crystals and fatty acid abnormalities in leukocytes). REP2, a protein that is 75% identical and 90% similar to REP1, is able to significantly compensate for the loss of REP1 outside the eye. It is thought that REP2 is not able to fully compensate for the loss of REP1 in the retina. RAB27A, a Rab that has essential functions in the retina, has been shown to be preferentially prenylated by REP1. Additionally, the Rab27a-REP1 and Rab27a-REP2 complexes have different affinities for the Rab geranylgeranyltransferase enzyme, possibly explaining REP2's inability to fully compensate for REP1 in the retina.\n\nA number of individuals in public roles are afflicted by choroidermia, and some have been involved in fundraising efforts for the disease. The former UK Labour Member of Parliament Siôn Simon is a known sufferer. Comic and activist E.J. Scott, partner of \"Daredevil\" actress Deborah Ann Woll, also suffers from the disease and is involved in regular fundraising efforts.\n\nThere are a few organizations that provide support for individuals with choroideremia and raise money for research. They include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30540048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30540048", "title": "Cocooning (immunization)", "text": "Cocooning (immunization)\n\nCocooning, also known as the Cocoon Strategy, is a vaccination strategy that has been recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United States since 2006. It aims to protect newborn infants from becoming infected with pertussis by administering DTaP/Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria and acellular pertussis) booster vaccine to mothers, family members and any individuals who would come into regular contact with the newborn infant. By vaccinating these individuals with a pertussis booster a pool of persons is established around the newborn who are themselves protected from getting pertussis and passing it on to the infant, thereby creating a \"cocoon\" of protection around the newborn. Young infants have the highest rate of pertussis; in 87-100% of all deaths caused by pertussis, the victim is an infant of less than 6 months of age. \n\nCocooning is defined as the strategy of protecting infants from infectious diseases, especially pertussis, by vaccinating those in close contact with them. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) has recommended cocooning with Tdap vaccine since 2005 and has continued to recommend this strategy for all those with expected close contact with infants. ACIP states that cocooning provides maximum protection to the infant beyond what is provided by maternal vaccination. ACIP is recommending that all relatives and caregivers get vaccinated against pertussis at least two weeks before coming into contact with infants.\n"}
{"id": "758017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=758017", "title": "Codex Alimentarius Austriacus", "text": "Codex Alimentarius Austriacus\n\nCodex Alimentarius Austriacus is a collection of standards and product descriptions for a variety of foods, established by the Austrian-Hungarian Empire in October 1891. The Codex Alimentarius Austriacus standards is primarily the product of a voluntary effort of experts in the food industry and universities. While the standards laid out in the codex were not legally enforceable, they were nonetheless used by the courts to determine the identity and quality of a variety of food products.\n\nUntil the Mid 20th Century, the Codex Alimentarius Austriacus was not well-known beyond the German-speaking countries of Europe. It subsequently lent its name to the international Codex Alimentarius Commission, the current international food codex collaboratively worked out by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization. Consisting of three volumes, the Codex was finished sometime between 1910–1917 by O. Dafert. It lacked actual integration into Austrian law until 1975. The idea of a Europe-wide Codex Alimentarius based on the Austrian model was actively pursued by Hans Frenzel of Austria between 1954 and 1958. Frenzel's work culminated in the creation of the Council of the Codex Alimentarius Europaeus in June 1958, under the joint sponsorship of the International Commission on Agricultural Industries and the International Bureau of Analytical Chemistry. In 1975, the committee for the Codex Alimentarius Austriacus was reorganized to conform with Austrian food laws, which have a reputation of being some of the strictest food laws in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47815949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47815949", "title": "Collagen-induced arthritis", "text": "Collagen-induced arthritis\n\nCollagen-induced arthritis (CIA) is a condition induced in mice (or rats) to study rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nCIA is induced in mice by injecting them with an emulsion of complete Freund's adjuvant and type II collagen.\n\nIn rats, only one injection is needed, but mice are normally injected twice.\n"}
{"id": "51753034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51753034", "title": "Compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases", "text": "Compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases\n\nThe Compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases is a workers compensation scheme administered by the UK government. It was established in November 1982 by British Nuclear Fuels Limited and its trade unions following legal actions brought against the company by nuclear industry workers in the late 1970s. At the time of its establishment, BNFL and its trade unions agreed that the causation of cancer by radiation was sufficiently well understood that \"it should be possible to construct a scheme which would evaluate the probability that a diagnosed cancer may have been caused by radiation exposure at work.\" Initially the scheme only accepted claims in which a worker had died from a radiation-linked disease. In 1987 this was expanded to allow morbidity claims. The list of participating member employers and trade unions has grown through the 1990s and 2000s. As of December 2015, 1525 claims have been made out of which 156 have been successful.\n\nIn order to be eligible for compensation, a worker must have been employed by a listed company, and have received an occupational radiation dose. Then the claimant must have developed cancer of the bladder, bone, brain and central nervous system, breast or uterus (for female workers), colon, liver, oesophagus, respiratory or lung, prostate, ovary, skin (non-Melanoma), thyroid or other tissues. Other compensable diseases include cataracts and leukaemias (with two exceptions). Some diseases are excluded on the basis that there is no convincing epidemiological evidence to link them with ionising radiation exposure. Excluded diseases include: Hodgkin’s disease, hairy cell leukaemia, chronic lymphatic leukaemia (CLL), malignant melanoma and mesothelioma.\n\nIn 1982, trade union members of the scheme included Transport and General Workers Union, Institution of Professional Civil Servants, Amalgamated Engineering Union, GMB and PCS. Other trades unions joined as the scheme expanded. Later members include the EETPU and MSF, UCATT, Engineers and Managers Association, Unison, the First Division Association of Civil Servants, the AEA Constabulary Federation (now the Civil Nuclear Police Federation) and the Defence Police Federation.\n\nClaims may be lodged by the worker, his or her wife, husband or partner (including same sex), the worker's \"first line children\" (those born to or legally adopted by the claimant). Once diagnosed with or deceased from an eligible disease, the worker or surviving family members have 30 years in which to make a claim. Claims can be made online, by post, by phone or through the worker's trade union. Once made, claims are assessed on consideration of medical, employment and dosimetry histories and data. These are used to calculate the probability that the cancer could have been caused by occupational exposure to radiation.\n\nThe payment received following a successful claim varies depending on the actual loss (in earnings and pension) suffered by the claimant and sums for pain and suffering, loss of amenity and number of dependents. The level of payment awarded to a claimant (or estate if deceased) is determined by the \"causation probability\". The greater the causation probability, the greater the payment. Top tier payments are awarded if the causation probability is 50% or more. The Scheme publishes an Annual statement which is approved by the Scheme Council. The report includes a paragraph updating the number of claims and payments awarded.\n\nBy 22 February 2005, 1000 claims had been made, of which 97 had been awarded to varying degrees along a sliding scale.\n\nAs of December 2015, 1525 cases had been considered since the compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases was established. 156 of these claims were successful, and payments totaling £8.24 million had been dispatched.\n"}
{"id": "25702982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25702982", "title": "Courage Quashigah", "text": "Courage Quashigah\n\nMajor Courage Emmanuel Kobla Quashigah (9 September 1947 – 5 January 2010) was a Ghanaian soldier and politician. He held many prominent positions in the Ghana Armed Forces and was a Minister of State for Agriculture and later Health in the NPP government of John Kufuor between 2001 and 2009.\n\nQuashigah was born at Kedzi in the Volta Region of Ghana. He had his secondary and sixth form education at the Keta Secondary School also in the Volta Region. He gained his GCE Ordinary Level and GCE Advanced Level certificates there. He proceeded to the United Kingdom where he studied at the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst. He qualified with a Diploma in Economics, War studies and Communication studies. He was awarded the Cane and Certificate of Honour as Best Overseas Cadet and Highest in the Order of Merit at Sandhurst.\n\nQuashigah served as an Intelligence officer at the headquarters of the Second Infantry Brigade of the Ghana Army based at Kumasi in the Ashanti Region of Ghana. He then became the Chief Instructor at the Jungle Warfare School at Akyease, in the Eastern Region. Other positions later held by him include Commanding Officer of the Ghana Military Police and Commanding Officer of the Forces Reserve Battalion. He has also served as a Director at the Military Academy and Training School at Teshie, a suburb of Accra. Quashigah distinguished himself in various fields in the army. After serving with the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, he won a Commendation for Efficient and Effective Command.\n\nDuring the military rule of the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC), he was the Chief Operations Officer at the (PNDC) Headquarters, Gondar Barracks, Burma Camp, Accra. He has also served as a Member of the Police Council of Ghana. Quashigah was formerly a close ally of Jerry Rawlings, Head of state of Ghana and chairman of the PNDC. On September 24, 1989, Quashigah and four others were arrested for allegedly plotting to overthrow the PNDC government. He was finally released in 1992. In 1998, he became the national organiser of the New Patriotic Party (NPP). After the NPP formed a government in January 2001, Quashigah was appointed Minister of Agriculture. He was appointed Health Minister after a cabinet reshuffle in 2005 after President Kufuor had been reelected in the December 2000 presidential election. Whilst serving as minister of Health, Quashigah received notable recognition \nfor outstanding and exceptional contribution towards initiating a national health education on healthy lifestyle living and nutrition in Ghana and his efforts has grandly become extremely successful since the Africa Union has called on member states to declare the last Friday of each year as Africa's Healthy Lifestyles Day. Subsequently Ghana has named Ghana's Former Minister for Health, Major Quashigah, FGNAHAF as Africa's Best Health Minister in recent times and Ghanaians should be proud.\nQuashigah traveled to Israel during a short illness for some public engagements and to seek medical attention but died during his trip.\n\n"}
{"id": "32036278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32036278", "title": "Dichotic listening", "text": "Dichotic listening\n\nDichotic listening or the Dichotic listening test is a psychological test commonly used to investigate selective attention within the auditory system and is a subtopic of cognitive psychology and neuroscience. Specifically, it is \"used as a behavioral test for hemispheric lateralization of speech sound perception.\" During a standard dichotic listening test, a participant is presented with two different auditory stimuli simultaneously (usually speech). The different stimuli are directed into different ears over headphones. Participants are asked to pay attention to one or both of the stimuli. Later, they are asked about the content of either the message they were asked to attend to or the message that they were not told to listen to. As a result of focusing to repeat the words, participants noticed little of the message to the other ear, often not even realizing that at some point it changed from English to German. At the same time, participants did notice when the voice in the unattended ear changed from a male's to a female's, suggesting that the selectivity of consciousness can work to tune in some information.\"\n\nDichotic listening also relates to the third basic property of consciousness: Selectivity which is the capacity to include some objects but not others.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s Donald Shankweiler and Michael Studdert-Kennedy of Haskins Laboratories used a dichotic listening technique (presenting different nonsense syllables) to demonstrate the dissociation of phonetic (speech) and auditory (nonspeech) perception by finding that phonetic structure devoid of meaning is an integral part of language and is typically processed in the left cerebral hemisphere. A dichotic listening performance advantage for one ear is interpreted as indicating a processing advantage in the contralateral hemisphere. In another example, Sidtis (1981) found that healthy adults have a left-ear advantage on a dichotic pitch recognition experiment. He interpreted this result as indicating right-hemisphere dominance for pitch discrimination.\n\nDuring the early 1970s, Tim Rand demonstrated dichotic perception at Haskins Laboratories. In his study, the first stimuli: formant (F1), was presented to one ear while the second and third stimuli:(F2) and (F3) formants, were presented to the opposite ear. F2 and F3 varied in low and high intensity. Ultimately, in comparison to the binaural condition, \"peripheral masking is avoided when speech is heard dichotically.\" This demonstration was originally known as \"the Rand effect\" but was later renamed \"dichotic release from masking\". The name for this demonstration continued to evolve and was finally named \"dichotic perception\" or \"dichotic listening.\" Around the same time, Jim Cutting (1976), an investigator at Haskins Laboratories, researched how listeners could correctly identify syllables when different components of the syllable were presented to different ears. The formants of vowel sounds and their relation are crucial in differentiating vowel sounds. Even though the listeners heard two separate signals with neither ear receiving a 'complete' vowel sound, they could still identify the syllable sounds.\n\nThe \"dichotic fused words test\" (DFWT) is a modified version of the basic dichotic listening test. It was originally explored by Johnson \"et al.\" (1977) but in the early 80's Wexler and Hawles (1983) modified this original test to ascertain more accurate data pertaining to hemispheric specialization of language function. In the DFWT, each participant listens to pairs of monosyllabic rhyming consonant-vowel-consonant (CVC) words. Each word varies in the initial consonant. The significant difference in this test is \"the stimuli are constructed and aligned in such a way that partial interaural fusion occurs: subjects generally experience and report only one stimulus per trial.\" According to Zatorre (1989), some major advantages of this method include \"minimizing attentional factors, since the percept is unitary and localized to the midline\" and \"stimulus dominance effects may be explicitly calculated, and their influence on ear asymmetries assessed and eliminated.\" Wexler and Hawles study obtained a high test-retest reliability (r=0.85). High test-retest reliability is good, because it proves that the data collected from the study is consistent.\n\nAn emotional version of the dichotic listening task was developed. In this version individuals listen to the same word in each ear but they hear it in either a surprised, happy, sad, angry, or neutral tone. Participants are then asked to press a button indicating what tone they heard. Usually dichotic listening tests show a right-ear advantage for speech sounds. Right-ear/left-hemisphere advantage is expected, because of evidence from Broca's area and Wernicke's area, which are both located in the left hemisphere. In contrast, the left ear (and therefore the right hemisphere) is often better at processing nonlinguistic material. The data from the emotional dichotic listening task is consistent with the other studies, because participants tend to have more correct responses to their left ear than to the right. It is important to note that the emotional dichotic listening task is seemingly harder for the participants than the phonemic dichotic listening task. Meaning more incorrect responses were submitted by individuals.\n\nThe manipulation of voice onset time (VOT) during dichotic listening tests have given many insights regarding brain function. To date, the most common design is the utilisation of four VOT conditions: short-long pairs (SL), where a Consonant-Vowel (CV) syllable with a short VOT is presented to the left ear and a CV syllable with a long VOT is presented to the right ear, as well as long-short (LS), short-short (SS) and long-long (LL) pairs. In 2006, Rimol, Eichele, and Hugdahl first reported that in healthy adults SL pairs elicit the largest REA while, in fact, LS pairs elicit a significant left ear advantage (LEA). A study of children 5–8 years old has shown a developmental trajectory whereby long VOTs gradually start to dominate over short VOTs when LS pairs are being presented under dichotic conditions. Converging evidence from studies of attentional modulation of the VOT effect shows that around age 9 children lack the adult-like cognitive flexibility required to exert top-down control over stimulus-driven bottom-up processes. Arciuli et al.(2010) further demonstrated that this kind of cognitive flexibility is a predictor of proficiency with complex tasks such as reading.\n\nDichotic listening tests can also be used as lateralized speech assessment task. Neuropsychologists have used this test to explore the role of singular neuroanatomical structures in speech perception and language asymmetry. For example, Hugdahl \"et al.\" (2003), investigated dichotic listening performance and frontal lobe function in left and right lesioned frontal lobe nonaphasiac patients compared to healthy controls. In the study, all groups were exposed to 36 dichotic trials with pairs of CV syllables and each patient was asked to state which syllable he or she heard best. As expected, the right lesioned patients showed a right ear advantage like the healthy control group but the left hemisphere lesioned patients displayed impairment when compared to both the right lesioned patients and control group. From this study, researchers concluded \"dichotic listening as into a neuronal circuitry which also involves the frontal lobes, and that this may be a critical aspect of speech perception.\" Similarly, Westerhausen and Hugdahl (2008) analyzed the role of the corpus callosum in dichotic listening and speech perception. After reviewing many studies, it was concluded that \"...dichotic listening should be considered a test of functional inter-hemispheric interaction and connectivity, besides being a test of lateralized temporal lobe language function\" and \"the corpus callosum is critically involved in the top-down attentional control of dichotic listening performance, thus having a critical role in auditory laterality.\"\n\nDichotic listening can also be used to test the hemispheric asymmetry of language processing. In the early 60s, Doreen Kimura reported that dichotic verbal stimuli (specifically spoken numerals) presented to a participant produced a right ear advantage (REA). She attributed the right-ear advantage \"to the localization of speech and language processing in the so-called dominant left hemisphere of the cerebral cortex.\" According to her study, this phenomenon was related to the structure of the auditory nerves and the left-sided dominance for language processing. It is important to note that REA doesn't apply to non-speech sounds. In \"Hemispheric Specialization for Speech Perception,\" by Studdert-Kennedy and Shankweiler (1970) examine dichotic listening of CVC syllable pairs. The six stop consonants (b, d, g, p, t, k) are paired with the six vowels and a variation in the initial and final consonants are analyzed. REA is the strongest when the sound of the initial and final consonants differ and it is the weakest when solely the vowel is changed. Asbjornsen and Bryden (1996) state that \"many researchers have chosen to use CV syllable pairs, usually consisting of the six stop consonants paired with the vowel \\a\\. Over the years, a large amount of data has been generated using such material.\"\n\nIn selective attention experiments, the participants may be asked to repeat aloud the content of the message they are listening to. This task is known as shadowing. As Colin Cherry (1953) found, people do not recall the shadowed message well, suggesting that most of the processing necessary to shadow the attended to message occurs in working memory and is not preserved in the long-term store. Performance on the unattended message is worse. Participants are generally able to report almost nothing about the content of the unattended message. In fact, a change from English to German in the unattended channel frequently goes unnoticed. However, participants are able to report that the unattended message is speech rather than non-verbal content. In addition to this, if the content of the unattended message contains certain information, such as the listener's name, then the unattended message is more likely to be noticed and remembered. A demonstration of this was done by Conway, Cowen, and Bunting (2001) in which they had subjects shadow words in one ear while ignoring words in the other ear. At some point, the subject's name was spoken in the ignored ear, and the question was whether the subject would report hearing their name. Subjects with a high working memory (WM) span were more capable of blocking out the distracting information. Also if the message contains sexual words then people usually notice them immediately. This suggests that the unattended information is also undergoing analysis and keywords can divert attention to it.\n\nSome data gathered from dichotic listening test experiments suggests that there is possibly a small-population sex difference in perceptual and auditory asymmetries and language laterality. According to Voyer (2011), \"Dichotic listening tasks produced homogenous effect sizes regardless of task type (verbal, non-verbal), reflecting a significant sex difference in the magnitude of laterality effects, with men obtaining larger laterality effects than women.\" However, the authors discuss numerous limiting factors ranging from publication bias to small effect size. Furthermore, as discussed in \"Attention, reliability, and validity of perceptual asymmetries in the fused dichotic words test,\" women reported more \"intrusions\" or words presented to the uncued ear than men when presented with exogenous cues in the Fused Dichotic Word Task which suggests two possibilities: 1) Women experience more difficulty paying attention to the cued word than men and/or 2) regardless of the cue, women spread their attention evenly as opposed to men who may possibly focus in more intently on exogenous cues.\n\nA study conducted involving the dichotic listening test, with emphasis on subtypes of schizophrenia (particularly paranoid and undifferentiated), demonstrated that paranoid schizophrenics have the largest left hemisphere advantage – with undifferentiated schizophrenics (where psychotic symptoms are present but the criteria for paranoid, disorganized, or catatonic types have not been met) having the smallest. The application of the dichotic listening test helped to further the beliefs that preserved left hemisphere processing is a product of paranoid schizophrenia, and in contrast, that the left hemisphere's lack of activity is a symptom of undifferentiated schizophrenia. In 1994, M.F. Green and colleagues tried to relate \"the functional integration of the left hemisphere in hallucinating and nonhallucinating psychotic patients\" using a dichotic listening study. The study showed that auditory hallucinations are connected to a malfunction in the left hemisphere of the brain.\n\n"}
{"id": "213694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213694", "title": "Doula", "text": "Doula\n\nA doula (), also known as a birth companion, birth coach or post-birth supporter, is a non-medical person who assists a woman before, during, or after childbirth, to provide emotional support and physical help if needed. They also may provide support to the mother's partner and family. Unlike a midwife, doulas are not medical professionals and therefore cannot administer medication. Doulas are typically certified with some courses taking over a year to complete. \nPractical training is involved to become certified. Continuous support during birth from a person outside the mother's family or social circle, such as a Doula, is associated with reduced mortality rates, improved overall health of the mother and the baby, shorter labor time, reduced risk of a C-Section, and a lower need for medical interventions such as instrumental delivery or pain relief. Support from a Doula may also reduce mothers' negative feelings about their childbirth experience. Some doulas provide postpartum support, for example assisting with housework, cooking, and offering help with learning to breast feed.\n\nMajor doula organizations that offer certification programs include Doula UK, DONA International, Childbirth International (CBI), Birth Arts International, International Doula Institute, Birthing From Within, The Doula Training Academy, CAPPA and the Australian Doula College. The Australian Doula College also trains end-of-life doulas. \n\nThere is a movement to encourage certification, and provide documentation of it on consumer websites such as Doulas and DoulaMatch where mothers can find certified doulas, childbirth educators, yoga instructors, and other birth-related professionals. Doulas not trained by a formal organization can be controversial within medical settings due to a lack of formal medical education when a discussion regarding medical interventions in labor versus pursuing natural childbirth without an epidural or caesarean section arises; however, the role of the doula is not to offer medical advice.\n\nSometimes the term \"doula\" can also refer to a non-medical person who assists critically ill elderly people.\n\nThe term \"doula\" was first used in a 1969 anthropological study conducted by Dana Raphael, a protégée of Margaret Mead, with whom she cofounded the Human Lactation Center in Westport, Conn. in the 1970s. Raphael suggested it was a widespread practice that a female of the same species be part of childbirth, and in human societies this was traditionally a role occupied by a family member or friend whose presence contributed to successful long-term breastfeeding. Raphael derived the term from modern Greek (, doúla, \"servant-woman\"), as told to her by an elderly Greek woman, Raphael also describing it as coming from \"Aristotle's time\", an Ancient Greek word meaning \"female slave\". Marshall Klaus and John Kennell, who conducted clinical trials on the medical outcomes of doula-attended births, adopted the term to refer to a person providing labor support.\n\nThe overall goal of a doula is for the mother to feel safe, be informed and feel comfortable, enhancing the role of doctors and nurses which is to ensure a safe delivery for mother and child. Doulas have no clinical role, duties or decision-making.\n\nA birth doula is also called a labor doula. The kinds of support provided during childbirth may include physical assistance and comfort (massage, maintaining a supporting posture or providing water), emotional support (providing company, encouragement or simply talking in a soothing tone of voice), and acting as an advocate for the woman undergoing childbirth (suggesting options or supporting the woman's decisions to a medical team). Doulas may also be involved during pregnancy and after birth (postnatal care).\n\nMost doula-client relationships begin a few months before the baby is due. Before the labor, the doula and the family can develop a relationship where the mother and her partner feel free to ask questions and express fears and concerns, and where the mother can take an active role in creating a birth plan. Continuity of support by the same person is thought to be an important aspect of the relationship between doula and mother. Doulas may be found in hospital, community-based programs as well as private practice, doula agencies and may be reimbursed by insurance companies or out-of-pocket by clients.\nBecause insurance companies typically do not cover the cost of hiring a doula, they are more popular among middle- and upper-class parents.\n\nPostpartum doulas provide educational support and practical support in the home in the first weeks and months after childbirth or after adding an infant to the family. The same doula often provides both birth and postpartum services. They provide emotional support and companionship by encouraging a mother when she might be feeling overwhelmed. Other workers providing similar services are maternity nurses, newborn care specialists, and, historically, monthly nurses.\n\nAn antepartum doula provides help and support to a mother who has been put on bed rest or is experiencing a high risk-pregnancy. Emotional, physical and practical support can be provided by an antepartum doula in these circumstances.\n\nThe term \"death doula\" has also been used for practitioners caring for critically ill adults in geriatric care, and during death.\n\nContinuous support during labor provided by doulas (along with variety of groups such as nurses, midwives, other hospital staff, partners, family or friends) have been associated with improved outcomes for both mothers and children. There is research to support the beneficial effects of doulas on both maternal and newborn or infant health, including shorter delivery, fewer caesarean sections and complications, the use of fewer medications and fetal extraction tools, less time in neonatal intensive care units, positive psychological benefits for mothers, more satisfying birth experiences, and increased breastfeeding. Cross-country research on the effects of doulas on child birth and postnatal care is complicated by the variety of settings, cultures and medical systems of individual countries and characteristics of patients. These benefits appear to be contingent on the doula's providing continuous rather than intermittent assistance, have some medical training and on the specific social and cultural setting within which their services are provided. Women with less education, lower incomes, less preparation for childbirth and those lacking social support may experience greater benefits from doula care than other groups.\n\nUntil recently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has no official position on trained labor support (of which a doula is considered to be), during an interview the ACOG's chairwoman of the academy’s committee on obstetric practice Sarah Kilpatrick, stated while doulas may be helpful, there are some who try to \"interfere with the medical aspect of delivery.\" In March 2014, the ACOG put out a Consensus Statement titled \"Safe Prevention of Primary Cesarean Delivery\" in which it said, \"Increasing women’s access to non-medical interventions during labor, such as continuous labor support, also has been shown to reduce cesarean birth rates.\" As more research has become available on the positive benefits of trained labor support provided by someone not employed by the hospital, in 2017, ACOG officially announced the need for all women to have access to continuous labor support outside hospital staff, and said, \"Evidence suggests that, in addition to regular nursing care, continuous one-to-one emotional support provided by support personnel, such as a doula, is associated with improved outcomes for women in labor.\".. The official committee opinion put out by ACOG also offers other recommendations that will allow women more choice and access to more supportive care. Doulas could be utilized to help achieve many of these recommendations as they move towards better collaboration. \n\nDoulas provide information about medications or medical interventions during childbirth and help the family decide if her practice fits the family's birth wishes such as those who decide to have an epidural or otherwise do not undertake natural childbirth.\nDoulas acting beyond the role of social support and advocacy by providing medical advice, practicing outside their scope of practice may be acting as a traditional birth attendant.\n\nIn 2017 the United Kingdom's Royal College of Midwives published a position statement on doulas.\n\nThere is a lack of standardization and oversight of doulas, with multiple organizations providing different courses with varying requirements.\nThere is no formal or universally recognized certification process or training requirements, and anyone can refer to themselves as a doula. No academic credentials such as a college or university diploma, or high school equivalency are required. . Doulamatch.net, an online referral page for doulas, has offered a list of items that students should look for as they begin looking for training. Amy Gilliland, a researcher on doula care and culture, also lists some qualities a training program should have. Some theorists have stated that it may take college level work or more in depth online eduction in order to provide some of the communication skills that may be necessary.\n\nBeing a doula does not specifically require any medical training, although it is not uncommon for doulas to have received certification or medical training of some kind. In North America, training generally takes the form of a two- to three-day seminar, and some experience with childbirth.\nTrainees may have hands-on practice with various techniques used during childbirth, including maternal positions and movements, relaxation and breathing exercises and other measures that could be used for comfort. Certification can occur through organizations at various levels (local, national or international) and some require positive evaluations from medical professionals. Certification may also require, in addition to attending a training course, time spent working or learning about maternity care and childbirth classes and possibly a written exam. Some doulas train through distance education. Research also supports the effectiveness of female friends or relatives, after minimal training, as a low-cost alternative to professional doulas.\n\nDisputes between doctors, nurses and doulas have been described as a \"turf battle\", though it is also recognized that doulas and nurses can occupy complementary roles that provide opportunities for mutual learning and assistance. Some hospitals have created internal doula training programs to reduce conflict between doulas and medical staff.\n\n\n\n00:08, 12 January 2018 (UTC)"}
{"id": "12610406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12610406", "title": "E. H. Hedrick", "text": "E. H. Hedrick\n\nErland Harold Hedrick, better known as E. H. Hedrick (August 9, 1894 – September 20, 1954) was an American Democratic politician from West Virginia.\n\nBorn in Beckley, West Virginia he was graduated from the medical school of the University of Maryland, Baltimore in 1917. During World War I he served in the United States Army Medical Corps as a first lieutenant (1917–1919). After the war he returned to Beckley where he started his own medical practice (1919–1944).\n\nHedrick also served as a medical examiner for the Veteran Administration from 1919 to 1944, city and country health officer (1927–1932) and superintendent of Pinecrest Tuberculosis Sanitarium in Beckley (1943–1944).\n\nHis political career began when he was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1944 from the now extinct 6th district. He served four consecutive two-year terms from January 3, 1945 to January 3, 1953.\n\nHedrick did not run for a fifth term in 1952, but instead sought the Democratic nomination for Governor. However, he lost to William C. Marland, State Attorney General, who went on to win the general election. A fellow Democrat, State Senator Robert Byrd, who eventually became Dean and President pro tem of the United States Senate and a Senate Majority Leader, replaced him as congressman from the 6th district.\n\nAfter his defeat for the gubernatorial nomination, Hedrick left politics and resumed his business and professional interests. He died in Beckley and is buried in Sunset Memorial Park.\n"}
{"id": "14548099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14548099", "title": "Encounter (psychology)", "text": "Encounter (psychology)\n\nThe term \"encounter\", in the context of existential-humanism (like existential therapy), has the specific meaning of an authentic, congruent meeting between individuals.\n\nSome uses of the concept of encountering:\n\n"}
{"id": "1558701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558701", "title": "Food Standards Australia New Zealand", "text": "Food Standards Australia New Zealand\n\nFood Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ) (Māori: \"Te Mana Kounga Kai - Ahitereiria me Aotearoa\"), formerly Australia New Zealand Food Authority (ANZFA), is the governmental body responsible for developing food standards for Australia and New Zealand.\n\nFSANZ develops food standards after consulting with other government agencies and stakeholders. The recommendations made by the body are open and accountable, and based upon a rigorous scientific assessment of risk to public health and safety.\n\nAll decisions made by FSANZ must be approved by the Australia and New Zealand Food Regulation Ministerial Council, which is composed of the Health Minister from each of the Australian states and territories, and the Health Minister from New Zealand, as well as other participating Ministers nominated by each jurisdiction. This may lead to political interference in the decision: for example the decision made over hemp seed, when the Food Standards scientists recommended that hemp seed be allowed for sale, the ministers vetoed this because they did not want to appear soft on drugs.\n\nPublications from FSANZ include the \"Australian Total Diet Survey\" and \"Shoppers' Guide to Food Additives and labels\".\n\nThis authority is sometimes cited variously as Australia and New Zealand Food Standards/Safety Authority (ANZFSA), possibly incorrect nomenclature arising due to confusion with the non-acronymic older version of the short-name ANZFA, and with the acronym of the New Zealand authority, NZFSA (pronounced enzfissar, similar to anzfessar of ANZFSA) which previously managed such questions in New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12341591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12341591", "title": "Fritz Kasparek", "text": "Fritz Kasparek\n\nFritz Kasparek (3 July 1910 – 6 June 1954) was an Austrian mountaineer who was on the team that made the first ascent of the Eiger north face.\n\nKasparek gained his first alpine experiences on the \"Peilstein\" in the Wienerwald and in the Ennstaler Alps. After Emilio Comici had been the first to climb the north face of the Cima Grande of the Tre Cime di Lavaredo in 1933, in February 1938 Kasparek and Sepp Brunnhuber made the first winter ascent.\n\nOn 24 July 1938, with Anderl Heckmair, Ludwig Vörg and Heinrich Harrer, he made the first ascent of the north face of the Eiger. This climb, previously deemed impossible and described by Reinhold Messner as \"a glorious moment in the history of mountaineering and a great sensation, since several climbers had previously perished on the face\", made headlines around the world and is recounted in Heinrich Harrer's 1958 book, \"The White Spider\".\n\nKasparek died in 1954, falling to his death through a broken snow cornice near the peak of the Salcantay in Peru.\n\n"}
{"id": "2720061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2720061", "title": "Fritz Luchsinger", "text": "Fritz Luchsinger\n\nFritz Luchsinger (March 8, 1921 – 28 April 1983) was a Swiss mountaineer. Together with Ernst Reiss he made the first ascent of Lhotse (8,516 m), the fourth highest mountain in the world, on 18 May 1956. During the approach march Luchsinger came down with severe appendicitis, and had to recuperate in a room given to the Swiss expedition by the lama of Tengboche monastery.\n\nLuchsinger disappeared during an attempt on Shishapangma in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "5327634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5327634", "title": "Gnathology", "text": "Gnathology\n\nGnathology is the study of the masticatory system, including its physiology, functional disturbances, and treatment. Dr Beverly McCollum established the Gnathologic Society in 1926.\n\n"}
{"id": "3573933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573933", "title": "Great Plague of Marseille", "text": "Great Plague of Marseille\n\nThe Great Plague of Marseille was the last of the significant European outbreaks of bubonic plague. Arriving in Marseille, France in 1720, the disease killed a total of 100,000 people: 50,000 in the city during the next two years and another 50,000 to the north in surrounding provinces and towns. \n\nDespite the large number of deaths, Marseille recovered quickly from the plague outbreak. Economic activity took only a few years to recover, as trade expanded to the West Indies and Latin America. By 1765, the growing population was back at its pre-1720 level.\n\nAt the end of the plague of 1580, the people at Marseilles took dramatic measures to attempt to control the future spread of disease. The city council of Marseilles established a sanitation board, whose members were to be drawn from the city council as well as the doctors of the city. The exact founding date of the board is unknown, but its existence is first mentioned in a 1622 text of the Parlement of Aix. The newly established sanitation board made a series of recommendations to maintain the health of the city.\n\nThey established a bureaucracy to maintain the health of Marseilles. In addition to protecting the city from exterior vulnerabilities, the sanitation board sought to build a public infrastructure. The first public hospital of Marseilles was also built during this time period, and was given a full-sized staff of doctors and nurses. Additionally, the sanitation board was responsible for the accreditation of local doctors. Citing the vast amount of misinformation that propagates during a plague, the sanitation board sought to at a minimum provide citizens with a list of doctors who were believed to be credible.\n\nThe sanitation board was one of the first executive bodies formed by the city of Marseilles. It was staffed to support the board's increasing responsibilities.\n\nThe Sanitation Board established a three-tiered control and quarantine system. Members of the board inspected all incoming ships and gave them one of three \"bills of health\". The “bill of health” then determined the level of access to the city by the ship and its cargo. \n\nA delegation of members of the sanitation board was to greet every incoming ship. They reviewed the captain’s log, which recorded every city the ship had landed in, and checked it against the sanitation board's master list of cities throughout the Mediterranean that had rumors of recent plague incidents. The delegation also inspected all the cargo, crew and passengers, looking for signs of possible disease. If the team saw signs of disease, the ship was not allowed to land at a Marseilles dock. \n\nIf the ship passed that first test and there were no signs of disease, but the ship’s itinerary included a city with documented plague activity, the ship was sent to the second tier of quarantine, at islands outside of Marseilles harbor. The criteria for the \"lazarets\" were ventilation (to drive off what was thought to be the miasma of disease), be near the sea to facilitate communication and pumping of water to clean, and to be isolated yet easily accessible.\n\neven a clean bill of health for a ship required a minimum of 18 days' quarantine at the off island. During such time, the crew would be held in one of the lazarettos/lazarets that were constructed around the city. The lazarettos were also classified in relation to bills of health given to the ship and individuals. With a clean bill, a crewman went to the largest quarantine site, which was equipped with stores and was large enough to accommodate many ships and crews at a time. If crew were believed subject to a possibility of plague, they were sent to the more isolated quarantine site, which was built on an island off the coast of the Marseille harbor. The crew and passengers were required to wait there for 50 to 60 days to see if they developed any sign of plague.\n\nOnce crews served their time, they were allowed into the city in order to sell their goods and enjoy themselves prior to departure.\n\nThis great outburst of plague was the last recurrence of a pandemic of bubonic plague, following the devastating episodes which began in the early-fourteenth century with the 1331 Black Death. In 1720, \"Yersinia pestis\" arrived at the port of Marseille from the Levant upon the merchant ship \"Grand-Saint-Antoine.\" The vessel had departed from Sidon in Lebanon, having previously called at Smyrna, Tripoli, and plague-ridden Cyprus. A Turkish passenger was the first to be infected and soon died, followed by several crew members and the ship's surgeon. The ship was refused entry to the port of Livorno.\n\nWhen it arrived at Marseille, it was promptly placed under quarantine in the \"lazaret\" by the port authorities. Due largely to Marseille's monopoly on French trade with the Levant, this important port had a large stock of imported goods in warehouses. It was also expanding its trade with other areas of the Middle East and emerging markets in the New World. Powerful city merchants needed the silk and cotton cargo of the ship for the great medieval fair at Beaucaire and pressured authorities to lift the quarantine. \n\nA few days later, the disease broke out in the city. Hospitals were quickly overwhelmed, and residents panicked, driving the sick from their homes and out of the city. Mass graves were dug but were quickly filled. Eventually the number of dead overcame city public health efforts, until thousands of corpses lay scattered and in piles around the city.\n\nAttempts to stop the spread of plague included an Act of the Parlement of Aix that levied the death penalty for any communication between Marseille and the rest of Provence. To enforce this separation, a plague wall, the \"Mur de la Peste\", was erected across the countryside. The wall was built of dry stone, 2 m high and 70 cm thick, with guard posts set back from the wall. Remains of the wall can still be seen in different parts of the Plateau de Vaucluse.\n\nDuring a two-year period, 50,000 of Marseille's total population of 90,000 died. An additional 50,000 people in other areas succumbed as the plague spread north, eventually reaching Aix-en-Provence, Arles, Apt and Toulon. Estimates indicate an overall death rate of between 25%-50% for the population in the larger area, with the city of Marseille at 40%, the area of Toulon at above 50%, and the area of Aix and Arles at 25%.\n\nAfter the plague subsided, the royal government strengthened the plague defenses of the port, building the waterside . A double line of fifteen-foot walls ringed the whitewashed compound, pierced on the waterside to permit the offloading of cargo from lighters. Merchantmen were required to pass inspection at an island further out in the harbour, where crews and cargoes were examined.\n\nIn 1998, an excavation of a mass grave of victims of the bubonic plague outbreak was conducted by scholars from the Université de la Méditerranée. The excavation provided an opportunity to study more than 200 skeletons from an area in the second arrondissement in Marseille, known as the Monastery of the Observance. In addition to modern laboratory testing, archival records were studied to determine the conditions and dates surrounding the use of this mass grave. This multidisciplinary approach revealed previously unknown facts and insights concerning the epidemic of 1722. The reconstruction of the skull of one body, a 15-year-old boy, revealed the first historical evidence of an autopsy dated to the spring of 1722. The anatomic techniques used appear to be identical to those described in a surgical book dating from 1708.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34900600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34900600", "title": "Health effects of salt", "text": "Health effects of salt\n\nThe health effects of salt are the conditions associated with the consumption of either too much or too little salt. Salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl) and is used in food for both preservation and flavor. Sodium ions are needed in small quantities by most living things, as are chloride ions. Salt is involved in regulating the water content (fluid balance) of the body. The sodium ion itself is used for electrical signaling in the nervous system.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that excess sodium can increase blood pressure and the risk for heart disease and stroke in some individuals. Therefore, health authorities recommend limitations on dietary sodium. The United States Department of Health and Human Services recommends that individuals consume no more than 1500–2300 mg of sodium (3750–5750 mg of salt) per day depending on race, medical condition and age. The World Health Organization recommends that adults consume no more than 5 g of salt per day.\n\nAs an essential nutrient, sodium is involved in numerous cellular and organ functions. Salt intake that is too low, below 3 g per day, may also increase risk for cardiovascular disease and early death.\n\nHypernatremia, a blood sodium level above 145 mEq/L, causes thirst, and due to brain cell shrinkage may cause confusion, muscle twitching or spasms. With severe elevation, seizures and comas may occur. Death can be caused by ingestion of large amounts of salt at a time (about 1 g per kg of body weight). Deaths have also been caused by use of salt solutions as emetics, typically after suspected poisoning.\n\nHyponatremia, or blood sodium levels below 135 mEq/L, causes brain cells to swell; the symptoms can be subtle and may include altered personality, lethargy, and confusion. In severe cases, when blood sodium falls below 115 mEq/L, stupor, muscle twitching or spasms, seizures, coma, and death can result. Acute hyponatremia is usually caused by drinking too much water, with insufficient salt intake.\n\nAbout 95% of the world's populations have a mean intake of salt that is between 6 g and 12 g daily. Widespread advice that salt intake be restricted below this range is not supported by evidence from randomized controlled trials nor is it supported by evidence from prospective observational studies. In fact, intake of less than 5.8 g of salt per day typically results in activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which leads to an increase in plasma lipids and increased mortality.\n\nAlthough many health organizations and recent reviews state that high consumption of salt increases the risk of several diseases in children and adults, the effect of high salt consumption on long term health is controversial. Some suggest that the effects of high salt consumption are insignificant.\n\nExcess sodium consumption can increase blood pressure. Most studies suggest a \"U\" shaped association between salt intake and health, with increased mortality associated with both excessively low and excessively high salt intake.\n\nHealth effects associated with excessive sodium consumption include:\n\nOne report stated that people excreting less salt (thus, presumably ingesting less) were at increased risk of dying from heart disease. However, a recent meta-analysis conducted by the Cochrane Hypertension group found this article was subject to methodological flaws, and urges great caution when interpreting their results.\n\nAnother meta-analysis investigated the association between sodium intake and health outcomes, including all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) events. Sodium intake level was a mean of <115 mmol (2645 mg), usual sodium intake was 115-215 mmol (2645–4945 mg), and a high sodium intake was >215 mmol (4945 mg), concluding: \"Both low sodium intakes and high sodium intakes are associated with increased mortality, consistent with a U-shaped association between sodium intake and health outcomes\".\n\nStudies have found some microplastic contamination in sea salt from the US, Europe and China. The health effects of this contamination are unknown because, as of 2017, no studies on the question had been performed.\n\nRecommended intakes of salt are usually expressed in terms of sodium intake as an Adequate Intake (AI) and a Tolerable upper intake level (Upper Limit or UL). Salt (as sodium chloride) contains 39.3 percent of sodium by weight.\n\nAs of 2009 the average sodium consumption in 33 countries was in the range of 2,700 to 4,900 mg/day. This ranged across many cultures, and together with animal studies, this suggests that sodium intake is tightly controlled by feedback loops in the body. This makes recommendations to reduce sodium consumption below 2,700 mg/day potentially futile. Upon review, an expert committee that was commissioned by the Institute of Medicine and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that there was no health outcome-based rationale for reducing daily sodium intake levels below 2,300 milligrams, as had been recommended by previous dietary guidelines; the report did not have a recommendation for an upper limit of daily sodium intake.\n\nAlthough sea salt is sometimes promoted as being healthier than table salt, both forms have the same sodium content.\n\nUK: The Food Standards Agency defines the level of salt in foods as follows: \"High is more than 1.5 g salt per 100 g (or 0.6 g sodium). Low is 0.3 g salt or less per 100 g (or 0.1 g sodium). If the amount of salt per 100 g is in between these figures, then that is a medium level of salt.\" In the UK, foods produced by some supermarkets and manufacturers have 'traffic light' colors on the front of the packet: red (high), amber (medium), or green (low).\n\nUSA: The FDA \"Food Labeling Guide\" stipulates whether a food can be labeled as \"free\" \"low,\" or \"reduced/less\" in respect of sodium. When other health claims are made about a food (e.g., low in fat, calories, etc.), a disclosure statement is required if the food exceeds 480 mg of sodium per 'serving'.\n\nConsensus Action on Salt and Health (CASH) established in the United Kingdom in 1996, actively campaigns to raise awareness of the alleged harmful health effects of salt. The 2008 focus includes raising awareness of high levels of salt hidden in sweet foods that are marketed towards children. In 2004, Britain's Food Standards Agency started a public health campaign called \"Salt – Watch it\", which recommends no more than 6g of salt per day; it features a character called Sid the Slug and was criticised by the Salt Manufacturers Association (SMA). The Advertising Standards Authority did not uphold the SMA complaint in its adjudication. In March 2007, the FSA launched the third phase of their campaign with the slogan \"Salt. Is your food full of it?\" fronted by comedian Jenny Eclair.\n\nThe University of Tasmania's Menzies Research Institute maintains a website to educate people about the problems of a salt-laden diet. In Australia, the \"Drop the Salt! Campaign\" aimed to reduce the consumption of salt by Australians to 6g per day over the course of five years ending in 2012.\n\nIn January 2010, New York City launched the National Salt Reduction Initiative (NSRI). It is the only coordinated, voluntary effort to reduce sodium in the United States, an effort supported by the Institute of Medicine as an interim goal in advance of federal action on sodium reduction.\n\nAs of 2013, over 90 state and local health authorities and health organizations have signed on as partners of the NSRI. Together, the NSRI partnership encourages food manufacturers and chain restaurants to voluntarily commit to NSRI sodium reduction targets for 2012 and 2014. The NSRI aims to reduce sodium in the food supply by 25 percent in five years and reduce population sodium intake by 20 percent in the same time, thereby reducing risk for heart attacks and strokes.\n\nTwenty-one companies met their 2012 NSRI commitment. Notable reductions include: 15 percent reduction of sodium in Heinz ketchup; 32 percent reduction of sodium in the Subway’s Subway Club sandwich; 33 percent reduction of sodium in Nabisco’s Honey Teddy Grahams; 18 percent reduction of sodium in Kraft Single American Slices; and 20 percent reduction of Ragu Old World Style Traditional Tomato Sauce.\n\nSeparate from the NSRI, a number of major food producers have pledged to reduce the sodium content of their food. Pepsi is developing a \"designer salt\" that's slightly more powdery than the salt it regularly uses. The company hopes this new form of salt will cut sodium levels by 25 percent in its Lay's potato chips.\nNestlé's prepared foods company, which produces frozen meals, announced that it will reduce sodium in its foods by 10 percent by 2015.\nGeneral Mills announced that it will reduce the sodium content of 40 percent of its foods by about 20 percent by 2015. A number of chain restaurants have made pledges to lower sodium over time. MenuStat, a free online database of past and current nutrition data from chain restaurants developed by the NYC Health Department, is available to monitor and evaluate these pledges.\n\nIn the United States, taxation of sodium has been proposed as a method of decreasing sodium intake and thereby improving health in countries where typical salt consumption is high. Taking an alternative view, the Salt Institute, a salt industry body based in North America, is active in promoting the use of salt, and questioning or opposing the recommended restrictions on salt intake.\n\nA low sodium diet reduces the intake of sodium by the careful selection of food. The use of a salt substitute can provide a taste offsetting the perceived blandness of low-salt food; potassium chloride is widely used for this purpose. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends daily potassium intake of not less than 3,510 mg. Excessive potassium intake may be detrimental to health, and it is advised that potassium chloride not be used by those taking certain prescription drugs. The use of seaweed granules in the manufacture of processed foods is being researched as an alternative to salt.\n\nA 2017 Cochrane systematic review of randomized controlled trials reported that lowered dietary salt intake lowered blood pressure in people with hypertension by about 3.5%, indicating that it might be a useful supplementary treatment for hypertension. In people with normal blood pressure, the decrease after lowering dietary salt intake was less than 1%. The effects in Asians and blacks with hypertension were greater than in whites, but more studies are needed to confirm conclusions. Effects of lowered salt intake on hormones and lipids were similar in normotensive and hypertensive individuals.\n\nStudies found that excessively low sodium intake, below about three grams of salt per day, is associated with increased mortality and higher risk for cardiovascular disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "33668554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33668554", "title": "Henry J. Aaron", "text": "Henry J. Aaron\n\nHenry Jacob Aaron (b.1936) is an American policy analyst and economist. He is the Bruce and Virginia MacLaury Senior Fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the Brookings Institution, where he has been employed since 1968. He served as director of the program from 1990 through 1996.\n\nAaron was nominated to the Social Security Advisory Board (SSAB) by President Barack Obama, receiving confirmation to the post by the United States Senate in 2014. He serves as Chairman of the Board of the SSAB. He is a proponent of a single-payer health care system, though he has questioned the feasibility of implementation in the United States. \n\nAaron is a graduate of the University of California, Los Angeles and holds a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University. From 1967 until 1989, in addition to his role at Brookings, Aaron taught at the University of Maryland. From 1996-1997, Aaron was a Guggenheim Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. From 1997 to 1998, he was Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation at the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the next year, he chaired the Advisory Council on Social Security. \nAaron received the 2007 Robert M. Ball Award for Outstanding Achievements in Social Insurance.\n\nOn September 8, 2014 Aaron's nomination by President Barack Obama to be Chairman of the Social Security Advisory Board was confirmed by the Senate by a vote of 54-43.\n\nAaron supports for more rationing of healthcare.\n\nAaron is a member of the Institute of Medicine, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the advisory committee of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. He has been vice-president and member of the executive committee of the American Economics Association and president of the Association of Public Policy and Management. He has also served on the board of trustees of Georgetown University and the board of directors of the College Retirement Equity Fund. He serves on the board of directors of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.\n"}
{"id": "15523059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15523059", "title": "Iranian Academy of Medical Sciences", "text": "Iranian Academy of Medical Sciences\n\nThe Academy of Medical Sciences of Iran () was formally inaugurated in the winter of 1990. It had received its mandate from the High Council of Cultural Revolution and Legislature of the Islamic Republic of Iran two years earlier and its existence had been foreseen in the 1986 Charter of the Ministry of Health and Medical Education. It is one of the four academies of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The other three are: Academy of Sciences of Iran, Iranian Academy of the Arts and Academy of Persian Language and Literature.\n\nThe Academy consists of the president of the country as the director of the academy, a general assembly, the president of the academy (currently Professor Iradj Fazel), a vice-President for Research (currently professor Reza Malekzadeh), a scientific council, and a secretary. The Academy publishes Archives of Iranian Medicine which is a peer-reviewed medical journal.\n\nAmong the major objectives of The Academy of Medical Sciences of Iran are the development of medical sciences and techniques as well as reinforcement of the spirit of research, the attainment of scientific and cultural independence, promotion of the level of the national medical sciences, attainment of the latest findings and, innovation in the field of medical science through collective endeavors and encouragement of prominent scientists and researchers.\n\nThe Academy has three types of members including Permanent, Associate and Honorary. The first two types require Iranian citizenship and the last is open to other nationalities. Permanent membership is lifelong.\n\n"}
{"id": "31174705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31174705", "title": "Lasting power of attorney", "text": "Lasting power of attorney\n\nLasting powers of attorney (LPAs) in English law were created under the Mental Capacity Act 2005, and came into effect on 1 October 2007. The LPA replaced the former enduring powers of attorney (EPA) which were narrower in scope. Their purpose is to meet the needs of those who can see a time when they will not be able – in the words of the Act, will lack capacity – to look after their own personal, financial or business affairs. The LPA allows them to make appropriate arrangements for family members or trusted friends to be authorised to make decisions on their behalf. The LPA is created and registered with the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG), an executive agency of the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe LPA is a specific form of the more general power of attorney which is widely used in countries which have a common law system. The word attorney in this context is someone (or in some circumstances an organisation such as a company) legally appointed or empowered to act for another person. The person giving the power is known as the donor. The word 'lasting' in the context of an LPA means that the power may continue even if the person (though still alive) no longer has capacity to exercise the power. The Lasting Power of Attorney can be applied for online. The gov.uk tool offers guidance throughout the process, and prevents the user from making mistakes that may invalidate their LPA application.\n\nThe former EPA was simple to administer, but failed to provide for some decisions which may have to be made in circumstances that preclude their being made by the person principally affected. In particular, the attorney's powers under the EPA were largely defined in terms of money and property, and were not related to decisions on medical matters such as the continuation or otherwise of life-sustaining treatment, or welfare matters such as a move to a different kind of accommodation. The primary purpose of the changes under Mental Capacity Act 2005 (MCA 2005) was to rectify this omission, by creating two LPAs: one for property and financial affairs (the LPA(PFA)) and one for Health and Welfare (the LPA(H&W)).\n\nWhile the LPA is primarily designed to deal with personal affairs and finances, business owners or directors are faced with more complex considerations. While a close friend or family member may be suitable for managing personal affairs in times of incapacity, businesses may require subject matter experts and depending on the business structure, there are certain governance requirements. Therefore, the Business Lasting Power of Attorney (BLPA) is a separate arrangement that is similar in function to the LPA. Business owners arranging a LPA and BLPA can therefore split between personal and business affairs.\n\nThe LPA system is administered by the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG), an agency of the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom. Its contact details are explained in section 2.2 below headed 'The role of the OPG in relation to Lasting Powers of Attorney'. The OPG was set up in 2007 under the MCA 2005, replacing the similarly-named Public Guardianship Office which had a more limited range of responsibilities. It is headed by the Public Guardian, whose main role is the protection of people who lack mental capacity.\n\nThe MCA 2005 provides a statutory framework to empower and protect vulnerable people who are not able to make their own decisions. It makes clear who can take decisions on their behalf, in which situations, and how they should do so. Through the LPA, the Act enables people to plan ahead for a time when they may lose capacity. Detailed guidance is provided by a Code of Practice to the MCA 2005 to the Act, which people working as professionals in this field are required to 'have regard to': that is, to observe, unless (having decided in specific circumstances not to do so) they are prepared to explain afterwards – most probably in a post-incident inquiry – why not.\n\nWhere there are suspicions that an attorney might not be acting in the best interests of the donor, the OPG will arrange an investigation. If the OPG decides that formal action is required, and more generally if any disputes arise on subjects covered by the MCA, the matter is referred to the Court of Protection (CoP), which is part of the Family Division of the High Court and was set up under the MCA for this purpose. The role of the CoP in decision-making is complementary to that of the OPG in relation to matters of regulation and supervision.\n\nThe guiding principles of the MCA 2005 are set out in five principles which indicate how the term 'capacity' (implying in this context mental capacity) is to be interpreted:\n\n\nThe test so defined is 'decision-specific'. It can indicate an answer to the question 'Can he any longer use a gas ring safely when unsupervised?', but does not allow for wider questions to be given a firm yes/no answer when the real answer is that he has restricted capacity and so can deal with some aspects but not others. As stated in an official summary of the Act, it is 'a single clear test for assessing whether a person lacks capacity to take a particular decision at a particular time'.\n\nFrom the point of view of someone who needs (or may potentially need) one or both LPAs, the Office of the Public Guardian is one of the first points of contact.\n\nTo apply for a Lasting Power of Attorney, the donor has to fill in the application forms giving details for themselves, the attorneys and another person known as the certificate provider to witness that the decision has been made with the donor's understanding and agreement. An LPA cannot be created once the donor has lost capacity.\nThere are two ways to create a Lasting Power of Attorney.\nThe two key booklets available to give information on the LPA are entitled 'Guidance for people who want to make a lasting power of attorney for…', respectively, 'Property and Financial Affairs' and 'Health and Welfare'. These booklets provide all the information required about the legal aspects of the LPA application procedure, and many but not all of the practical aspects as well; they are the source for the great majority of the material which follows here.\n\nThe booklets can be obtained in several ways:\n\n\nMost users, particularly when completing an application form without previous experience of LPAs, will find the printed format an advantage.\n\nAs well as obtaining copies of the forms in these ways, copies may be downloaded or requested of other booklets and the corresponding application forms, such as those relating to registration and the payment of fees. Full information is on the appropriate website; first-time users will find it most convenient either to download or request by post a full set, covering everything needed for each LPA.\n\nThe OPG does not have its own website, but uses part of the main UK Government information site. \nA fee is payable at the time of registration: it is currently £82, or £164 from April 2017 for both LPAs, but exemption or reduction is allowed in defined cases.\n\nAn LPA is not only a legal document: it is a plan of action, to be put into effect in an ordinary family situation which may have its share of stresses and problems. Any such matters will affect the outcome, and so need to be taken into account in the drafting of the application. The primary source of help and advice for this process is the appropriate OPG booklet.\n\nOnce the donor has created a lasting power of attorney and it has been registered with the Office of the Public Guardian, the attorneys specified can in theory act on behalf of the donor, for example, paying the donor's bills, managing investments, and so on. However, in practice, this can prove much harder than it may sound.\n\nThe powers granted by the property and financial affairs LPA require the relevant institution (for example, the bank or insurance company) to accept the power of attorney and allow the attorney to act. Many institutions, whilst in theory accepting the power, make it extremely difficult to put in practice. Many claim that this is to protect the donor or to comply with money laundering regulations, but whatever the reasons, it can make the whole process very challenging and stressful, especially if the donor themselves is by this time unable to support the process, for example, from failing mental capacity.\n\nWays in which institutions can obstruct the process include:\n\n\nEven once the authority of the attorney is accepted by the institution, they may choose to limit what the donor can do, for example by:\n\n\nThe only recourse in these cases is to complain first to the institution in question, and if this fails to the Financial Ombudsman Service.\n\nBoth the \"Guardian\" and the \"Telegraph\" have reported on these challenges.\n"}
{"id": "19723951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19723951", "title": "Louis Charles Trabut", "text": "Louis Charles Trabut\n\nLouis Charles Trabut (July 12, 1853 – April 25, 1929) was a French botanist and physician who was a native of Chambéry, department of Savoie. He is remembered for his work involving the flora of Algeria and Tunisia.\n\nTrabut was a professor of natural history at the Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy of Algiers, and also a consultant physician to the Mustapha Pacha hospital. With botanist Jules Aimé Battandier (1848–1922), he published several works on Algerian flora, that included the following:\n\nHe has several plant species named after him, such as the eucalyptus species \"Eucalyptus trabutii\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35236972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35236972", "title": "Mental health in Russia", "text": "Mental health in Russia\n\nMental health in Russia is covered by a law, known under its official name—the Law of the Russian Federation \"On Psychiatric Care and Guarantees of Citizens' Rights during Its Provision\" (, \"Zakon Possiyskoy Federatsii \"O psikhiatricheskoy pomoshchi i garantyakh prav grazhdan pri yeyo okazanii\"\"), which is the basic legal act that regulates psychiatric care in the Russian Federation and applies not only to persons with mental disorders but all citizens. A notable exception of this rule is those vested with parliamentary or judicial immunity. Providing psychiatric care is regulated by a special law regarding guarantees of citizens' rights.\n\nDue to this fact, it is acknowledged that functions of psychiatry are not limited to identifying and removing biological anomalies that cause \"mental illnesses\", caring for patients and alleviating their sufferings, but they also apply to the scope of their civil rights. The passage of the law was one of the five conditions for the membership of the All-Union Society of Psychiatrists and Neuropathologists in the World Psychiatric Association. The law passed on 2 July 1992 and received the number 3185-1.\n\nThere was an increasingly decentralised approach to psychiatric care before 1917, with smaller hospitals (10 to 20 beds), more out-patient clinics, and some collaboration with private practice. Psychiatrists were expected to deal with general medical issues and problems relating to epidemic and infectious diseases, witness corporal punishment and attend executions. After the 1905 Russian Revolution there was an influx of political prisoners into asylums. Local zemstovs provided two-thirds of the funding for psychiatric services and the central government one third.\n\nThe Commissariat of Public Health established the Psychiatry Commission in October 1917. Psychiatrists were given greater control over hospitals. The head of the hospital was elected. Psychiatric services were funded by central government. Support services for mentally ill soldiers were provided by the Russian Red Cross Society until they were taken over by the Commissariat of Public Health in 1919. They appointed a psychiatrist/neurologist consultant for the Red Army.\n\nDuring the period of the Soviet Union, it was not considered reasonable to pass special legislative acts protecting the material and legal part of the patients' mental health, thus leaving mental health services mainly inconsistent and unregulated. It was only guidelines of the legal and medical departments that stipulated certain rules of handling the mentally sick and imposing different sanctions on them. Two guidelines on the management of mentally ill persons were published in 1961 and 1971, respectively. These were prepared by lawyer Alexander Rudyakov, who was the legal adviser to the chief psychiatrist of the Moscow Oblast, and read that the grounds for urgent hospitalization was when an ill person was of social danger. Up until 1988, psychiatry in the USSR was not regulated by laws, there were only departmental guidelines, especially those of the USSR Ministry of Health, and one article in the \"Fundamentals of Health Legislation of the USSR\". Vague wordings in the guidelines led to their wide and arbitrary application, which was fully in the hands of psychiatrists. In the absence of legal control over the actions of doctors, departmental regulation of mental health care has contributed to psychiatric abuse. Only in the beginning of 1988, the USSR adopted the \"Statute on Conditions and Procedures for the Provision of Psychiatric Assistance\", which has been the first legal act in this field and has certainly played a positive role for Soviet psychiatry. However, the 1988 \"Statute\" did not fully protect the rights of citizens falling into the field of activity of psychiatry, did not fully protect the mentally ill, did not contain developed mechanisms for legal control over the actions of psychiatrists and did not conform to the USSR Constitution and international standards.\n\nIn Russia, the enactment of the law took place under dramatic circumstances, even with the consideration that there was an 80-year delay for any mental health legislation and given the fact that political abuse of psychiatry was unprecedentedly widespread and denied for two decades from 1968 to 1988. When Soviet rule was coming to an end, the decision to develop a law on mental health was made by senior officials and under the threat of economic sanctions from the United States. An initiator of creating a serious, detailed mental health law in the USSR was a deputy of the last convocation of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, a young engineer from a Uralian town. When asked why he as an engineer needs it, he replied to Semyon Gluzman, \"All this democracy will soon run out, guys who will come to power, will start repression, and you, Dr. Gluzman, and I will have a hard time. So let's at least get these guys blocked from this possibility and adopt a civilized law eliminating the possibility of psychiatric repression!\" The Law was developed with the participation of psychiatrists involved in political abuse of psychiatry. At a meeting held by the Health Committee of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR in the autumn of 1991, the Law was approved, particularly in the speeches by the four members of the commission of the World Psychiatric Association, but this event was followed by the dissolution of the Soviet Union. As its result, the work on the draft of the Mental Health Law automatically ceased.\n\nIn 1992, a new commission was created under the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation and used a new concept of developing the Law; a quarter of the commission members were the representatives of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia (IPA). The main developer of the Law was Svetlana Polubinskaya of the Institute of State and Law of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Polubinskaya was the sole lawyer in the commission of psychiatrists for developing the Law and lodged a categorical protest against including other lawyers in the commission.\n\nThe Supreme Soviet of Russia passed the Law on 2 July 1992. The Law has been in force since 1 January 1993. For the first few years, the Law was defied, seen by the doctors as an undue burden and was not let known to the patients. In 1993, when the IPA printed the Law in 50 thousand copies for the general reader, quite a number of heads of the Moscow psychoneurologic dispensaries refused to circulate the Law. Over time, these difficulties were overcome. It became obligatory to know the Law to pass the certification exam.\n\nThe Law contains 6 sections and 50 articles. Section I of the law describes general provisions of psychiatric care in Russia, covering items such as the right of persons with mental disorders, the voluntariness of seeking care/refusal of treatment, diagnostic and treatment procedures and ensuring that medical confidentiality is maintained in dealing with mentally ill patients. Section II covers the state provision of psychiatric care, including financial provision. Section III describes the rights and duties of mental health workers in Russia, as well as the authorised institutions that provide mental health services. Section IV details further into the types of psychiatric care and procedure of care, including the 'internment' process. Section V describes the role of law enforcement, while Section VI covers appeals against psychiatric care.\n\nAdoption of the Law \"On Psychiatric Care and Guarantees of Citizens' Rights during Its Provision\" is regarded as an epoch-making event in the history of domestic psychiatry, as establishing the legal basis for psychiatric care, and, first of all, mediating all involuntary measures through judicial procedure. That is a major post-Soviet achievement of Russian psychiatry and the foundation for a basically new attitude to the mentally ill as persons reserving all their civil and political rights and freedoms.\n\nThe main new democratic innovations for Russian psychiatry were the two ones of the Law:\n\nAccording to the Russian psychiatrists Valery Krasnov and Isaac Gurovisch, the Law minimizes and prevents the institutionalization of the mentally ill if their behavior does not pose a danger to others. However, article 38, which was once included in the Law as a guarantee of keeping the whole Law for patients of psychiatric hospitals, is still not working, and, as a result, the service independent of health authorities to defend rights of patients in psychiatric hospitals is still not created.\n\nIn 1989, the World Psychiatric Association issued a statement that includes the following phrase: \"Involuntary intervention is a great infringement of the human rights and the fundamental freedom of a patient. Therefore, specific and carefully defined criteria and safeguards are needed for such intervention.\" The Law establishes substantive and procedural criteria for legitimacy of involuntary hospitalization. Russia is among such countries and their parts as Austria, Belgium, Germany, Israel, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Taiwan, and the Canadian province of Ontario that emulated the United States in adopting hospitalization criteria based on the presumed danger of the mentally ill. The same was true of the Soviet Union where the two guidelines of 1961 and 1971 read that the ground for urgent hospitalization was social danger of an ill person. There is such a thing carefully cultivated by authorities as the prejudice that the mentally ill allegedly pose a danger to society, though it is not so: the percentage of criminals among the mentally ill is less than that among the so-called \"healthy\" population. Statistics show those who are ill with schizophrenia commit fewer illegal acts (less than 1%) than those considered mentally healthy. Involuntary hospitalization in a psychiatric hospital under article 29 of the Law is to meet the following three grounds:\nNeither direct danger nor severe mental disorder is defined in the Law. According to the IPA president Yuri Savenko, loud claims, importunate molestations, shocking texts in a personal computer, participation in protests, hunger strikes, protest reaction against sudden and rude involuntary measures started to be called a direct danger. According to American psychiatrist Thomas Szasz, the psychiatric formula of \"dangerousness to self and others\" is very susceptible to changes of medical, political and social fashion. Prior to 1973, homosexuality was such a dangerousness, and since then has no longer been. Psychologist-criminalist Nataliya Varskaya says that neuroleptics that are applied to serious patients make them \"vegetables\", but the ill stop posing a danger to citizens; alas, but there are no other ways to secure surrounding people against them. She adds, dangerous patients are not cured even in psychiatric hospitals, they were previously kept in the wards for life, doctors examined them every six months and prolonged, prolonged, prolonged their custody; the doctors were aware that these patients are very dangerous, it is inadmissible to let them go to the streets.\n\nThe citizen may voluntarily come to a psychiatrist who would find a severe mental disorder that requires the mandatory admission to a psychiatric inpatient unit. If the patient refuses the hospitalization offered to him, the doctor gets the right to start the procedure of involuntary hospitalization. As a psychiatrist says, it is only a psychiatrist who is able to inquire into a patient's condition and to decide whether his refusal to be treated is a free man's conscious choice or a symptom of a mental disorder. In psychiatrist's opinion, the mentally ill often do not feel and do not deem they are ill. They actively avoid therapy and resist all efforts to subject them to it. The more the person resists the inpatient psychiatric ward's demands for his hospitalization, the greater are his chances to find himself indoors or, more precisely, to be left there, because his resistance can be presented by the ward representatives as the lack of his due insight into mental status, as an indication of the severity of his disease. In the same vein, the practice was justified by American psychiatrist Benjamin Rush as early as the eighteenth century: \"The more they resist our efforts to serve them, the more they have need of our services.\" The reluctance of patients to undergo neuroleptic treatment, their \"spontaneous irritation\", protests, etc. are considered as either unremoved symptoms of mental illness (such as depressive neurosis) or, along with tremor, anxiety, dysphoric mood disorder, as \"transitory complications\". It is profitable for doctors to hospitalize the person in any cases, then bedspace fills up. Remuneration of the labour of physicians in psychiatric hospitals and funding of the entire industry in Russia are carried out on the basis of the number of beds run by the doctor. Russian human rights activist Valery Abramkin says it should be clear for a Russian patient that each medic legally and illegally snatches his large sum from each bed. However, psychiatrists in their usual way counter the remarks that their funding depends on the number of psychiatric beds by ascribing them to antipsychiatrists and stating that the main motto of antipsychiatrists is the idea that psychiatrists are villains who dream of placing as many people as possible to madhouses.\n\nData obtained as results of analysing the work of the psychiatric inpatient facilities show that two thirds of patients placed in a hospital without their consent actively refuse hospitalization. In the rest of cases, they are unable to express their attitude to the events because of their mental condition.\n\nDespite the 1992 Russian Mental Health Law, coercive psychiatry in Russia remains generally unregulated and fashioned by the same trends toward hyperdiagnosis and overreliance on institutional care characteristic of the Soviet period. In Russia, mental health care is meant to be provided by inpatient psychiatric facilities rather than by outpatient services. In the Soviet Union, there had been an increase of the bed numbers because psychiatric services had been used to treat dissidents. In 2005, the Russian Federation had one of the highest levels of psychiatric beds per capita in Europe at 113.2 per 100,000 population, or more than 161,000 beds. In 2014, Russia has 104.8 beds per 100,000 population and no actions have been taken to arrange new facilities for outpatient services. The number of outpatient clinics designed for the primary care of the mentally disordered stopped increasing in 2005 and was reduced to 277 in 2012 as against 318 in 2005. An average patient's stay in a day-and-night inpatient psychiatric facility is extremely long, 75.5 days. Nevertheless, the average rehospitalization rate in the Russian Federation amounts to 21.5%, and the portion of people kept in inpatient facilities longer than one year was 21.7% in 2012 and 22.2% in 2013. Psychiatrist Sofia Dorinskaya says she saw former convicts who have been living in a Russian mental hospital for ten years and will have been staying there until their dying day because of having no home. The total number of the mentally ill registered disabled has increased by 20% over a few years, from 826,036 in 1999 to 1,020,002 in 2008 for the population of 141.9 million in the country (2010 figure).\n\nPersons who do not respond well to treatment at dispensaries can be sent to long-term social care institutions (internats) wherein they remain indefinitely. The internats are managed by oblast Social Protection ministries. Russia had 442 psychoneurologic internats by 1999, and their number amounted to 505 by 2013. The internats provided places for approximately 125,000 people in 2007. In 2013, Russian psychoneurologic internats accommodated 146,000 people, according to the consolidated data of the Department of Social Protection of Moscow and the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Russian Federation. It is supposed that the number of beds in internats is increasing at the same rate with which the number of beds is decreasing in psychiatric hospitals.\n\nLyubov Vinogradova of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia provides the different figure of 122,091 or 85.5 places in psychoneurologic institutions of social protection (internats) per 100,000 population in 2013 and says that Russia is high on Europe's list of the number of places in the institutions. Vinogradova states that many regions have the catastrophic shortage of places in psychoneurological internats, her words point out to the need to increase the number of places there and to the fact that the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia is forcing transinstitutionalization—relocating the mentally ill from their homes and psychiatric hospitals to psychoneurological internats. As Robert van Voren, the chief executive of the Federation Global Initiative on Psychiatry, supposes, the Russians want to have their compatriots with mental disorders locked up outside the city and do not want to have them in community. Persons in internats are brought to sleepy condition by psychotropic drugs and have to pass through the very long and complex procedure to be discharged from an internat, as shown in the film \"See Me, Hear Me\" produced by Russia Today in 2014. However, according to law, the staff does not have the right to treat inmates in psychoneurologic internats.\n\nRussia is decades behind the countries of the European Union in mental health reform, which has already been implemented or is being implemented in them. Until Russian society, Russian psychiatrist Emmanuil Gushansky says, is aware of the need for mental health reform, we will live in the atmosphere of animosity, mistrust and violence.\n\nAccording to Yuri Savenko, the IPA president, law enforcement practice is very far from the letter of the Law. Forensic psychiatric expert examination has deteriorated because of the lack of competition, and courts implicitly fulfill wishes of the hierarchy of executive authority affected by corruption.\n\nDiscrediting the citizens by instituting farfetched proceedings to obtain a ground for examination is a favorite tactic of officials whose interests are hurt by the active members of public. The police deliver \"the ill\" to a psychiatric facility, and the doctor can be sure that his facility will not be reduced, and, in general, the more \"patients\", the more funding. Even if the criminal case is closed due to its complete failure, it does not regard the dispensary, the person is all the same \"ill\". There is nowhere to refute one's misdiagnosis in Russia.\n\nAccording to Yuliya Argunova, the IPA lawyer, police officers are obliged under part 3 of article 30 of the Law to assist medical workers in implementing involuntary hospitalization and to ensure safe conditions for the access to the hospitalized person and for his examination. While assisting hospital attendants to enter into the homes of citizens whose names are written by psychoneurological dispensaries on their referrals to hospitalization, police officers have little care about the absence of a court order (which can't even be issued at such a stage), the security of the hospitalized persons, the protection of their personality and preservation of their property.\n\nAccording to psychiatrist Sofia Dorinskaya, the situation always develops in the same way: either in the evening or at night, or in the early morning, when a person sleeps, the police break the door down in his apartment or room, handcuff and escort them directly or through a police office to a mental hospital, where the door is closed behind the person. The suspected person sits face to face with a psychiatrist, then everything written by the psychiatrist will be a proof of the person's mental illness for the judge in court. However, there is no system that verifies the psychiatrist's statements, so the activities of the accused are often falsified, even when the patient says or performs nothing abnormal. One case, described by lawyers Yuri Ershov and Nataliya Kozlova, depicts an ambulance arriving with a rescue service brigade, in order for the person's front door to be broken down after the person refused to open the door. The doctor involved considered that the indignant reaction of the person to such situation was abnormal and sufficient to justify his hospitalization. In her book \"The Psychiatrist's Notes\", Dorinskaya depicts how a person well oriented in place and time was hospitalized because of a 'fit of schizophrenia', as described in the referral to his hospitalization. In addition, the referral reported that \"he beat his wife and used bad language\". Dorinskaya writes how she and her colleagues forged many signatures of their patients on the forms of consent to hospitalization in medical histories before a prosecutor's investigation. She cites the dialog: \"And what if a signature does not match?\"—\"And who will investigate?\"\n\nAlthough Ershov and Kozlova describe that it is easy for the lawyer to come to places of confinement and meet with his client and the administration of the penal colony after going through the formalities stipulated in law, the lawyers have to litigate for the right to get into a psychiatric hospital.\n\nAs St. Petersburg lawyer Fanis Khalikov notes, the information about the time and place of the court session may simply be hidden from the hospitalized person and his representative. The hospitalized person may learn that he is in court at the time when the court session is underway or ready to start presently, when nothing can be done to ensure self-defence. It also happens that the person is not given an opportunity to contact his representative (lawyer), who could defend his interests in court, or with relatives (confidential agents, acquaintances, human rights organizations) so that they find and get a defence attorney to court. Or the defence attorney is not given an opportunity to meet with the hospitalized person; all possible obstacles are placed to prevent it. The hospitalized person is subjected to psychiatric treatment without his consent (and without the consent of the court) as soon as he finds himself in a psychiatric inpatient ward. Psychotropic drugs with effects varying in intensity are compulsorily administered into his body. As a result of having been drugged, the patient sometimes appears before the court in such a state that his look and behavior, caused by the influence of these drugs, can convince the judge that he sees a really inadequate person who is in need of psychiatric care. The patient is often in such an intoxication-induced condition that he is unable to put two words together, not to mention any real defence of his rights.\n\nAccording to the statement made by the IPA executive director Lyubov Vinogradova in 2005, a court comes to a hospital where it must make a number of judgments as to whether rightly or wrongly the hospital applies for the involuntary treatment of a person. The court makes its judgments for 20 cases within 20 minutes. In practice it means that the judge automatically signs judgments offered to him ready-made by the staff to allow for the involuntary treatments to continue.\n\nAccording to Doctor of Legal Sciences Vladimir Ovchinsky, regional differences in forensic psychiatric expert reports are striking. For example, in some regions of Russia, 8 or 9 percent of all examinees are pronounced sane; in other regions up to 75 percent of all examinees are pronounced sane. In some regions less than 2 percent of examinees are declared schizophrenics; in other regions up to 80 percent of examinees are declared schizophrenics.\n\nThe Russian legislation did not implement Principle 18 of the Principles for the Protection of Persons with Mental Illness and the Improvement of Mental Health Care, approved by the UN General Assembly in 1991, with respect to a patient's right to an independent psychiatric report. According to a report by the European Committee Against Torture, the Law does not reflect a patient's right to obtain the judgment for involuntary hospitalization. In a hospital courtroom, the judge announces the judgment, but the patient does not obtain any motivated judgment. There are sometimes cases where the patient is not informed by the court at all and hears about the judgment from his or her treating doctor or head of the unit. Since the judgment for involuntary hospitalization, as a rule, is not delivered to the hospitalized person, he cannot appeal against the judgment in appeal hearing. In other cases, the documents sent by him are censored and left in his medical record if not erased. The hospitalized person also does not have opportunities to attend the court to obtain a copy of the judgment or come to the post office to send a complaint against the judgment.\n\nArticle 29 of the Law concerning involuntary hospitalization in a mental hospital shall not apply to senior officials and the judiciary on the ground that they are vested with parliamentary or judicial immunity. A psychiatrist who violates this rule can be deprived of his or her diploma and sentenced to imprisonment. Passport data of persons vested with parliamentary or judicial immunity shall be included in the computer database, which is available to every psychiatric institution and shall be used by every psychiatrist before addressing the issue of involuntary hospitalization of a person in a psychiatric hospital. Psychiatrists commented on how to treat the judge vested with judicial immunity as follows: \"While knowing that the person in twilight state is dangerous and may kill or maim people nearby, the psychiatrist should provide this information to the regional court so that three judges of the court within 10 days can send to the Supreme Court of the country a petition for the removal of immunity from the judge. It is only a possible victim who should be worried about the fact that aggressive actions are likely to happen now because twilight state is usually short-lived. The victim may suffer or die, but it would happen in strict accordance with the Law on the Status of Judges!\" According to the next item of the commentary, the psychiatrist has no right to subject the incumbent President of the Russian Federation to the procedure of involuntary psychiatric examination or involuntary hospitalization.\n\nAmendments and changes were included in the Law several times: on 21 July 1998, 25 July 2002, 10 January 2003, 29 June and 22 August 2004, 27 July 2010, 7 February, 6 April, 21 November 2011.\n\nOver five years, from 1998 to 2003, the Serbsky Center made three attempts to submit for the Duma readings of amendments and additions to the Law, but the IPA and general public managed to successfully challenge these amendments, and they were finally tabled. According to the IPA, these amendments to the Law, if adopted, would have impaired patients' rights. In 2004, for instance, proponents of mental health reform could hardly prevent the effort by the doctors of the Serbsky Center to roll back some reforms in the Law.\n\nIn November 2012, Mikhail Vinogradov, an expert of the Serbsky Center, said: \"We must restore the legal act that was in the Soviet Union;\" he noted that the request by a large group of Petersburg and Moscow psychiatrists to restore the old mental health act was submitted to the State Duma. At the same time, Vinogradov expressed the opinion that the Soviet mental health act \"has never been used for political persecution.\" Human rights activists who claim it did, in Vinogradov's words, \"are not very mentally healthy.\" However, Valeriya Novodvorskaya is widely known to have been arrested \"for insulting President\" in September 1990 and kept in a psychiatric hospital until August 1991. In December 2012, Mikhail Vinogradov repeated his point, \"My opinion: we should completely cancel the current Mental Health Law. One cannot give patients the right to decide their fate.\" He added, \"Do you talk about human rights activists? Most of them are just unhealthy people, I talked with them. As for the dissident General Grigorenko, I too saw him, kept him under observation, and noted oddities of his thinking. But he was eventually allowed to go abroad, as you know… Who? Bukovsky? I talked with him, and he is a completely crazy character. But he too was allowed to go abroad! You see, human rights activists are people who, due to their mental pathology, are unable to restrain themselves within the standards of society, and the West encourages their inability to do so.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Leonid Kitaev-Smyk, a doctor and psychologist who specialized in extreme conditions, believes that unscrupulous people may use certain provisions of the Soviet mental health act, if restored, as a tool to settle scores, as was in Soviet times. He says, \"In some particular cases, people will simply write complaints against a person, will subject him to involuntary psychiatric examination. And he can be declared crazy after some bribe money have been paid. Creative, nonordinary, talented people have labile (as scientists say) nervous system, movable psychics. And they can be declared not quite normal mentally and, perhaps, even dangerous.\" Sergei Shishkov, the key lawyer of the Serbsky Center, also disagreed with Vinogradov, \"We are unlikely to return to the Soviet mental health act. It would be contrary to the international norms, which Russia has joined, as well as to the Russian Constitution. Article 29 of the Mental Health Law allows placing dangerous patients in a hospital. But when following necessary judicial procedures. If a patient is too socially dangerous, he is placed in a hospital, and a judgment is made through the court post factum. If a patient cannot be left without treatment, but he does not give his consent to the examination, there is such a concept as \"deferred examination\", or examination postscriptum.\"\n\nAccording to St Petersburg psychiatrist Vladimir Pshizov, the current Law is a boon and works out when having the informal human attitude to the patient. However, as Pshizov notes, a disastrous factor for domestic psychiatry is that those involved in political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union were allowed to stay on their positions until they decide to retire. Those who retained their positions and influence turned domestic psychiatry from politically motivated one to criminally motivated one because the sphere of interests of this public has been reduced to making a business of psychopharmacologic drugs and taking possession of the homes of the ill. This view is repeated by Alexander Danilin, who says that the Mental Health Law is certainly a progressive thing but, in reality, nothing changes because real change will only happen when specialists change their viewpoints and methods.\n\nAccording to Russian psychiatrist Emmanuil Gushansky, the Law \"On Psychiatric Care and Guarantees of Citizens' Rights during Its Provision\" that has been in force since 1993 is declaratory in nature and does not guarantee any rights. Not only the general and reference items of the Law but also its articles of direct application, which apply to the procedure of involuntary psychiatric examination, involuntary hospitalization, to the procedure of interning and keeping the mentally ill in long-term psychiatric care institutions (\"internats\" in Russian), are violated in the grossest way.\n\nLegal control over observing the Mental Health Law is not exercised. Psychiatry is the only medical specialty in which the doctor is given the right to violence for the benefit of the patient. The application of violence must be based on the mental health law, must be as much as possible transparent and monitored by representatives of the interests of persons who are in need of involuntary examination and treatment. While being hospitalized in a psychiatric hospital for urgent indications, the patient should be accompanied by his relatives, witnesses, or other persons authorized to control the actions of doctors and law-enforcement agencies. Otherwise, psychiatry becomes an obedient maid for administrative and governmental agencies and is deprived of its medical function. It is the police that must come to the aid of citizens and is responsible for their security. Only later, after the appropriate legal measures for social protection have been taken, the psychiatrist must respond to the queries of law enforcement and judicial authorities by solving the issues of involuntary hospitalization, sanity, etc.\n\nIn Russia, the psychiatrist is vested with punitive functions, is involved in involuntary hospitalization and, according to Gushansky, the state machine hides behind his back, actually manipulating the doctor. The police are reluctant to investigate offences committed by the mentally ill. After receiving the information about their disease, the bodies of inquiry very often stop the investigation and do not bring it to the level of investigative actions. Thereby psychiatry becomes a cloak for the course of justice and, by doing so, serves as a source for the rightlessness and stigmatization of both psychiatrists and persons with mental disorders. The negative attitude to psychiatrists is thereby supported by the state machine and is accompanied by the aggression against the doctors, which increases during the periods of social unrest.\n\nAccording to psychiatrist Sofia Dorinskaya, the law is in conflict with the Constitution of the Russian Federation. In judicial system, there is procedure for collecting evidence. If a person does not sign a transcript of interrogation or if he signed it, he in court can say that he was forced to sign, and the judge will investigate this. Anyway, it is stipulated. In psychiatry, a person's opinion is not considered to be something more or less reasonable at all.\n\nPsychotherapist Elena Romek, after making an analysis of the Law, came to the same conclusion that provisions of the Law are in conflict with civil rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, universally recognized norms of international law, professional and ethical norms of medicine, and presumption of innocence. If violence (involuntary examination, isolation, etc.), she says, is, in fact, used by doctors in accordance with the Hippocratic Oath to do everything to save the patient's life, the listed criteria should be generally valid, i.e. applied also to somatic diseases.\n\nThe 1993 law is outdated, according to lawyer Vladislav Lapinsky, who took part in its passage. The law has been foremost for the Russian Federation within those times but now is already outdated and does not have many issues written in. Lapinsky says a very big issue is that the judges are not experts in psychiatry and cannot evaluate the patient's condition objectively. On this ground, the judges in courts openly declare that if the doctors in a mental hospital said that the person is sick, they will not check whether healthy or not he is, whether he needs to be hospitalized or not. They just do what they are told by psychiatrists, and psychiatrists for various reasons are very often motivated to place the person in a psychiatric hospital.\n\nAccording to Romek, the restriction of civil rights of a person to the extent of his forced isolation based on the possibility alone of his committing illegal acts, which is defined through the notions about it in psychiatry—a discipline very far not only from jurisprudence but from socio-humanitarian knowledge in general, clearly violates the fundamental principle of the democratic justice—presumption of innocence. Since, on the one hand, psychiatry considers a great number of organic anomalies (any brain damages, hormonal imbalances, infectious diseases, etc.) as potential causes of criminal insanity and, on the other hand, the diagnostics of mental disorders is based on very vague descriptions of abnormal behavior, almost anyone can be subjected to involuntary hospitalization by the criterion of social danger and in strict accordance with the Law.\n\nIn addition to the constitution and general international law, the Moscow Helsinki Group (MHG) asserts that current legislation does not comply with the European practice of mental health care. MHG legal programs head, Natalia Kravchuk, commented on the case of Rakevich v. Russia considered in the European Court of Human Rights: St. Petersburg lawyer Fanis Khalikov believes that the mental health legislation is subject to fundamental and in-depth reforming, because it is the current editions of the Law No. 3185-1 and other regulations (for example, Chapter 35 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation) that do not hold strength.\n\nVladimir Rotstein, a doctrinist of Snezhnevsky's school, states, if the relatives of a \"not dangerous\" patient with psychosis promise to \"reward\" the ambulance drivers, then the patient will be hospitalized. The ambulance drivers will ensure that the patient sign a \"consent\". As well as legislation being unobserved (the patient was hospitalized, though he tried to refuse) there are also more direct abuses of power. Rotstein says, \"As for preventing abuses on the part of the state so that Chaadaev and suchlike are not declared mad, it would be at least naive to hope that the Law is able to prevent them.\" Rotstein sums up his opinion by quoting Alexander Pushkin's aphorism, \"In Russia there is no law—There is only a pillar; and on that pillar—a crown.\"\n\nNikolay Suatbaev expressed a similar opinion, stating that unlawful behavior should be dealt with by police, a public prosecutor's office, a court, even if an offender is mentally ill; after all, only if he is not deprived of his legal capacity, he has rights and obligations equal to those of the healthy. The refusal to institute criminal proceedings is Illegal if based on the fact alone that the offender is on the psychiatrist's registry and all the more so if accompanied by the delivery of the materials \"for taking measures\" to the dispensary, which by definition is not a punitive organ. It corrupts the ill and undermines the reputation of psychiatrists, Suatbaev says. New York City, for example, has no dispensaries at all, and if a person broke the law, it is a problem of the police; only later psychiatrists investigate if there is concern of a mental health issue, Vladimir Pshizov writes.\n\nThere have been many cases where orphans have been indicted to be sent to psychiatric hospitals, often when the accused are perfectly healthy. In 2010, 20 out of 72 orphans from an orphanage in Komsomolsk-on-Amur were placed in a psychiatric hospital and exposed to neuroleptic medication. The city prosecutor found that all the children were placed in the hospital to be treated for \"emotional disorders\" without having been examined by a commission of psychiatrists or provided for by a court judgment. The children told they had been warned that they would be sent to a madhouse because of their bad behavior. Infant orphans who came of age and received a diagnosis in a psychiatric hospital are sent to psychoneurological internats without asking their consent. There a new problem arises: quite legally capable people cannot get out of there, work, start their family and live a normal life.\n\nIn 2003, lawyer Mikhail Fomin noted that psychiatrists were given preference in order to encroach upon the homes of the elderly and single people. It would seem that the law must counteract such manipulations in psychiatry but, in reality, the law leads to numerous abuses following which single pensioners are sent to internats to live the rest of their life there. In Fomin's words, no one disputes that only a specialist can make a diagnosis but vesting a psychiatrist with the unlimited power to decide the fate of a person is an extreme legislative innovation peculiar at present only to Russia. The very strict control over involuntary interment in a psychiatric institution is exercised in other countries, specifically on the part of the Church, but Russian public organizations are almost powerless.\n\nIn 2008, during a scientific and practical conference held by the Advocacy Chamber of the Moscow Oblast, 200 leading legal scholars and human rights defenders noted the same trend when a tool for \"relatively honest\" encroachment upon property more and more often became the Mental Health Law. In 2014, legal proceedings started against a criminal group that took away apartments from patients of a town narcology dispensary in Novocherkassk. According to the data of law-enforcement agencies alone, the doctors sold seven apartments of patients and tried to do so in six cases more. An ill person who has lost his home often becomes a tramp, and citizens with no fixed abode, as a rule, do not appeal to the police.\n\nAccording to the 2013 interview of the representatives of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia to Radio Free Europe, because of the Russian Mental Health Law, sending people away for a month in a mental hospital is easy for prosecutors—with the help of pliable judges—and becomes an increasingly common tactic in the country's campaigns against political dissidence, extremism, and corruption.\n\nRobert van Voren says, \"The law itself is OK but the abuse of it exists.\" The same occasionally happens in many countries monitored by the Global Initiative on Psychiatry. Psychiatry is regarded as a handy tool to solve disputes, and one can easily buy a diagnosis from a psychiatrist. In most of the countries, forensic psychiatry has changed only slightly, the strong resistance to introducing the modern practices of forensic psychiatry is due to not disparities in schools or views but the fact that the reform of the system would mean the end of corruption. Criminals pay off their imprisonment of many years by having themselves declared insane. Wealthy husbands declare about the mental illnesses in their wives to get rid of them and yet keep control over their children. Children declare their parents and grandparents legally incapable to sell their apartments. Even medical institutions recognize their patients as insane to take their property.\n\nRussian psychiatrists Valery Krasnov, Isaak Gurovich and Alexey Bobrov suppose the Law works successfully enough, though the results of monitorings show that the violations of the rights of patients in psychiatric hospitals are massive. Most psychiatric institutions deny patients the right to receive information about the condition of their mental health, copies of medical documents. The grounds of placing in a hospital are not only undisclosed and unexplained to patients, but even are concealed from them, their consent to hospitalization and treatment are forged. The patient's right to send uncensored complaints and petitions to authorities, the prosecutor's office, court is ignored. Such correspondence is opened and inspected and, instead of being sent to the recipient, is filed to the medical history. Some hospitals censor not only outgoing correspondence (as doctors say, \"not to send claptrap\") but also ingoing one (\"not to injure the patient\").\n\nBecause of omissions of the administration of hospitals, patients are, as a rule, deprived of daily walks, the right to use the telephone. They are forbidden to see lawyers and other representatives chosen by them, to receive representatives of human rights organizations. In many hospitals, telephone calls and appointments with relatives are allowed only in the presence of attendant staff (a nurse, social worker or hospital attendant), that violates the privacy of such meetings. Receiving an appointment requires beforehand permission of the administration. The patient's natural right to privacy is not implemented. In all psychiatric hospitals, there are patients who are there not for medical but exclusively for social indications, including conflict relationships with family members who live with them.\n\nAccording to former Radio Liberty commentator Eugene Novozhilov, who was persecuted by psychiatrists, human rights of a person registered in a psychiatric dispensary in Russia exist only on paper. In the eyes of so-called \"law-enforcement agencies\", such a person in any situation is always guilty even if attacked and beaten by hooligans. Such a person under any hollow pretext can be deprived of his liberty by being placed in a mental hospital for an indefinite period of time. Then he can easily be declared legally incapable and stripped of property and all his \"paper\" rights, when being turned into a silent animal that spends the rest of his days. With the help of psychotropic drugs in a psychiatric hospital, a vegetable can be made out of a person within a week. To a person trapped in psychiatric torture chambers, the rest of his life can be turned into a long, painful and humiliating agony.\n\nLyubov Vinogradova believes the law is good in theory, but in reality there has been a continuous reduction in patients' rights as independent experts are now excluded from processes, cannot speak in court and can do nothing against the State experts.\n\nIn the countries of the former Soviet Union, there is very limited knowledge and understanding of declarations and international documents that guarantee the rights of the mentally ill and include the ethical codes, adopted by the World Psychiatric Association, and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with far-reaching implications for the mental health profession. Individual cases can be solved by litigation at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, however it does not change the attitudes of both mental health professionals and government officials.\n\nIn December 2013, the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia wrote to the World Psychiatric Association the open letter \"On the failure of the Mental Health Law and alarming trends in domestic forensic psychiatry.\" The letter reports on the failure of article 38 of the Law and requests to dispatch the audit commission to investigate a number of cases published in the \"Nezavisimiy Psikhiatricheskiy Zhurnal\"—the herald of the IPA, and at first to express formal concern about the contents of its letter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7413343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7413343", "title": "Microsatellite instability", "text": "Microsatellite instability\n\nMicrosatellite instability (MSI) is the condition of genetic hypermutability (predisposition to mutation) that results from impaired DNA mismatch repair (MMR). The presence of MSI represents phenotypic evidence that MMR is not functioning normally.\n\nMMR corrects errors that spontaneously occur during DNA replication, such as single base mismatches or short insertions and deletions. The proteins involved in MMR correct polymerase errors by forming a complex that binds to the mismatched section of DNA, excises the error, and inserts the correct sequence in its place. Cells with abnormally functioning MMR are unable to correct errors that occur during DNA replication and consequently accumulate errors. This causes the creation of novel microsatellite fragments. Polymerase chain reaction-based assays can reveal these novel microsatellites and provide evidence for the presence of MSI.\n\nMicrosatellites are repeated sequences of DNA. These sequences can be made of repeating units of one to six base pairs in length. Although the length of these microsatellites is highly variable from person to person and contributes to the individual DNA \"fingerprint\", each individual has microsatellites of a set length. The most common microsatellite in humans is a dinucleotide repeat of the nucleotides C and A, which occurs tens of thousands of times across the genome. Microsatellites are also known as simple sequence repeats (SSRs).\n\nMicrosatellite instability structure consists of repeated nucleotides, most often seen as GT/CA repeats.\n\nResearchers have yet to confirm the precise definition of the MSI structure. While all researchers agree that microsatellites are repeat sequences, the lengths of the sequences remain in question. Some research suggest that MSIs are short tandem DNA repeat sequences of one to six base pairs throughout the genome, while other research suggests that the range may be two to five.\n\nAlthough researchers do not agree on a specific threshold for the number of tandem repeats that constitute a microsatellite, there is a consensus around their relative size. Longer sequences are called minisatellite, and even longer sequences are called satellite DNA sites. Some scientists distinguish among the three categories by a minimum number of base pairs, and others use a minimum number of repeated units. The majority of repeats occur in untranslated regions, specifically introns. However, microsatellites that occur in coding regions often inhibit the expansion of most downstream events. Microsatellites make up approximately three percent of the human genome, or more than one million fragments of DNA. Microsatellite density increases with genome size and is seen twice as much at the ends of chromosome arms than in the chromosome bodies.\n\nMSI was discovered in the 1970s and 1980s. The first human disease attributed to MSI was xeroderma pigmentosum. This disease resulted from two alleles activating mutations on nucleotide excision repair.\n\nIn a broad sense, MSI results from the inability of the mismatch repair (MMR) proteins to fix a DNA replication error. DNA replication occurs in the \"S\" phase of the cell cycle; the faulty event creating an MSI region occurs during the second replication event. The original strand is unharmed, but the daughter strand experiences a frame-shift mutation due to DNA polymerase slippage. Specifically, DNA polymerase slips, creating a temporary insertion-deletion loop, which is usually recognized by MMR proteins. However, when the MMR proteins do not function normally, as in the case of MSI, this loop results in frame-shift mutations, either through insertions or deletions, yielding non-functioning proteins.\n\nMSI is unique to DNA polymorphisms in that the replication errors vary in length instead of sequence. The rate and direction of the mutations yielding MSIs are the major components in determining genetic differences. To date, scientists agree that the mutation rates differ in loci position. The greater the length of the MSI, the greater the mutation rate.\n\nAlthough most mutations of MSI are the result of frame-shift mutations, occasionally the mutation events leading to MSI are derived from the hypermethylation of the hMLH1 (MMR protein) promoter. Hypermethylation occurs when a methyl group is added to a DNA nucleotide, resulting in gene silencing, thus yielding MSI.\n\nResearchers have shown that oxidative damage yields frame-shift mutations, thus yielding MSI, but they have yet to agree on a precise mechanism. It has been shown that the more oxidative stress is placed on the system, the more likely it is that mutations will occur. Additionally, catalase reduces mutations, whereas copper and nickel increase mutations by increasing reduction of peroxides. Some researchers believe that the oxidative stress on specific loci results in DNA polymerase pausing at those sites, creating an environment for DNA slippage to occur.\n\nResearchers first believed that MSI was random, but there is evidence suggesting that MSI targets include a growing list of genes. Examples include the transforming growth factor Beta receptor gene and the BAX gene. Each target leads to different phenotypes and pathologies.\n\nMicrosatellite instability is associated with colon cancer, gastric cancer, endometrium cancer, ovarian cancer, hepatobiliary tract cancer, urinary tract cancer, brain cancer, and skin cancers. MSI is most prevalent in associations with colon cancers. Each year, there are over 500,000 colon cancer cases worldwide. Based on findings from over 7,000 patients stratified for MSI-High (MSI-H), MSI-Low (MSI-L), or Microsatellite Stable (MSS) colon cancers, those with MSI-H had a more positive prognosis by 15% compared to MSI-L or MSS tumors.\n\nColorectal tumors with MSI are found in the right colon, associated with poor differentiated tissue, high mucinogens, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, and a presence of a Crohn's-like host response. MSI-H tumors contributing to colorectal cancer exhibit less metastasis than other derived colorectal cancer. This is demonstrated by previous research showing that MSI-H tumors are more representative in Stage II rather than Stage III cancers.\n\nScientists have explored the connection of vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) proteins to MSI. Like MSI, VPS is linked to gastric and colon cancers. One study reports that VPS proteins were linked to MSI-H cancers, but not MSI-L cancers, thus restricting VPS to MSI-H-specific cancers.\n\nFurthermore, researchers agree that MSI-H status indicates the diagnosis of Lynch syndrome, non-metastatic prognosis, and less aggressive treatment regimens. Lynch syndrome is associated with MSI and increases the risk for colon, endometrium, ovary, stomach, small intestine, hepatobiliary tract, urinary tract, brain, and skin cancers.\n\nOne study conducted over 120 Lynch syndrome patients attributing Crohn's like reaction (CLR) associated with MSI to \"tumor specific neopeptides generated during MSI-H carcinogenesis.\" This study further corroborated that the \"presence of antimetastatic immune protection in MSI-H CRC patients may explain recent findings that adjuvant 5-FU chemotherapy has no beneficial or even adverse effects in this collective.\" The researchers assume that there is a protective role of lymphocytes against the MSI-H CRC that prevents tumor metastasis.\n\nMSI tumors in 15% of sporadic colorectal cancer result from the hypermethylation of the MLH 1 gene promoter, whereas MSI tumors in Lynch syndrome are caused by germline mutations in MLH 1, MSH 2, MSH 6, and PMS2.\n\nMSI has been evident in the cause of sebaceous carcinomas. Sebaceous carcinomas are a subset of a larger pathology, Muir-Torre syndrome. MSI is variably expressed in Muir-Torre syndrome, most often expressed with shared pathologies in patients with colon cancer. Furthermore, MMR proteins MLH 1, MSH 2, MSH6, and PMS2 are instrumental in periocular sebaceous carcinoma, which is seen on the eyelid in 40% of sebaceous carcinomas.\n\nIn May 2017 the FDA made a historic announcement regarding an immunotherapeutic manufactured by Merck with the brand name called Keytruda® (pembrolizumab) (PD-1 inhibitor) was approved for patients with unresectable or metastatic microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) solid tumors that have progressed following prior treatment. This indication is independent of PD-L1 expression assessment, tissue type and tumor location.\n\nMSI is a good marker for determining Lynch syndrome and determining a prognosis for cancer treatments. In 1996, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) hosted an international workshop on Lynch Syndrome, which led to the development of the “Bethesda Guidelines” and loci for MSI testing. During this first workshop the NCI has agreed on five microsatellite markers necessary to determine MSI presence: two mononucelotides, BAT25 and BAT26, and three dinucelotide repeats, D2S123, D5S346, and D17S250. MSI-H tumors result from MSI of greater than 30% of unstable MSI loci (>2 or more of the 5 loci). MSI-L tumors result from less than 30% of unstable MSI biomarkers. MSI-L tumors are classified as tumors of alternative etiologies. Several studies demonstrate that MSI-H patients respond best to surgery alone, rather than chemotherapy and surgery, thus preventing patients from needlessly experiencing chemotherapy. \n\nSix years later, during the second NCI hosted workshop to revisit Lynch Syndrome in 2002, the Bethesda Guidelines were revised (later published in 2004) which recommended new criteria for MSI testing. Specifically, they identified the five mononucleotide loci as being superior, over the mixture of mono and dinucleotide loci because the dinucleotide loci could appear shifted, when in fact they were not, thus increasing the possibility of a false positive MSI-H result. The first commercially available kit was provided by Promega Corporation, Madison, Wisconsin called the Microsatellite Instability 1.2 Analysis System (RUO). Since then, the Promega MSI RUO has been widely adopted since 2004, with over 120 peer-reviewed publications citing it's global standing as the gold standard in determining the MSI status of cancer tissue. \n\nRecently, real-time PCR based MSI detection kits have been introduced in the market successfully. Single step closed-tube format, high accuracy and sensitivity of the real-time PCR based products without any additional analysis after the PCR amplification comparing to the traditional (PCR followed with fragment analysis) methods has been considered as critical advantages.\n\nDirect and indirect mechanisms contribute to chemotherapy resistance. Direct mechanisms include pathways that metabolize the drug, while indirect mechanisms include pathways that respond to the chemotherapy treatment. The NER DNA repair pathway plays a substantial role in reversing cell damage caused by chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-FU.\n\nResearchers have found another MSI, called elevated microsatellite alterations at selected tetranucleotide repeats (EMAST). However, EMAST is unique in that it is not derived from MMR, and it is commonly associated with TP53 mutations.\n\nEMAST is seen in a variety of cancers including those of the lung, head and neck, colorectal, skin, urinary tract, and the reproductive organs. External organ sites have more potential for EMAST. Some researchers believe that EMAST maybe a consequence of mutagenesis. EMAST positive margins in otherwise negative cancer margins suggest disease relapse for patients.\n"}
{"id": "4470909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4470909", "title": "Midwakh", "text": "Midwakh\n\nA midwakh, also spelled \"medwakh\", is a small smoking pipe of Arabian origin, in which dokha, a sifted Iranian tobacco product mixed with aromatic leaf and bark herbs, is smoked. The bowl of a midwakh pipe is typically smaller than that of a traditional western tobacco pipe. It is usually loaded by dipping the bowl into a container of dokha flakes.\n\nMidwakh are primarily produced in the United Arab Emirates, and are especially popular in Abu Dhabi and Al Ain.\n\nThe pipes may be custom made, allowing the smoker to specify the dimensions and design. Midwakh are crafted from a variety of materials including wood, bone, base metal, marble, steel, gold, silver, plastic (with a metal bowl), or glass. They may incorporate precious items such as diamonds, gemstones and rings of precious metal inscribed with symbols, such as a falcon similar to the one shown in the UAE coat of arms. The pipe may be crafted to resemble a dromedary camel, a highly revered animal in the UAE; the opening of the bowl shaped as the camel's mouth, with a small hole connected to a metal shaft inside the body of the pipe to conduct the smoke to the user. Among many modern variations of the midwakh, some are covertly disguised as pens, some can be split apart for cleaning, and some can have double bowls or double stems. Most midwakhs crafted today have a mouthpiece sized to fit a plastic filter.\n\n"}
{"id": "20509113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20509113", "title": "Mirko Beljanski", "text": "Mirko Beljanski\n\nMirko Beljanski (1923 – 27 October 1998) was a French-Serbian molecular biologist, notable in the latter part of his career for devising and promoting a number of ineffective cancer treatments, and for treating French president François Mitterrand with them.\n\nBeljanski was found guilty of medical malpractice in 1994. Both he and Mitterrand subsequently died of cancer.\n\nBeljanski was born in 1923 in Yugoslavia. He came to France to study, and lived there for the rest of his life. He was married to Monique Lucas, daughter of and granddaughter of . He received a PhD in 1948 from the University of Paris. In 1948, he entered the CNRS and worked at the Pasteur Institute in Paris as a researcher in molecular biology. Beljanski was made to leave the Pasteur Institute in 1978, after pursuing research against the advice of the institute, but still continued to publish scientific papers. He was at the Faculty of Pharmacy of Châtenay-Malabry until his retirement in 1988.\n\nBeljanski believed he had found antivirals effective against cancer and AIDS. A product made from extracts of the Brazilian Pao pereira tree and called PB100 was claimed to be superior to AZT, which Beljanksi called \"real poison\". Customers included François Mitterrand (via a homeopath called Philippe de Kuyper). There was never any evidence that any of the products Beljanski promoted were effective medicine; the French Department of Health accused him of illegally practicing medicine in 1991, and he was found guilty of malpractice in 1994. In 2002, the European court of human rights ruled that the length of a second criminal investigation had been excessive and made a financial award to his widow.\n\nBeljanski died from cancer in Paris on 27 October 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "52648714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52648714", "title": "Multiple sex partners", "text": "Multiple sex partners\n\nMultiple sex partners (MSP) is the measure and incidence of engaging in sexual activities with two or more people within a specific time period. Sexual activity with MSP can happen simultaneously or serially. MSP includes sexual activity between people of a different gender or the same gender. MSP can also mean that one person may have a long-term relationship or relationships, and when the second relationship begins, the person can be said to have multiple sex partners. Another term, \"polyamoruous\", is a behavior and not a measure describing multiple romantically sexually or romantically committed relationships at the same time.\n\nYoung people having MSP in the last year is an indicator used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to evaluate risky sexual behavior in adolescents and monitoring changes in the worldwide HIV/AIDS infection rates and deaths.\n\nEpidemiologists and clinicians who quantify risks associated with MSP do so to identify those who have had sexual intercourse with more than one partner in the past 12 months. For the purposes of the World Health Organization (WHO)'s effort to eliminate HIV infection, quantifying measures progress in reducing the percentage of those with AIDS. The World Health Organization (WHO) has described their rationale by assuming that the spread of HIV in most locales depends upon the number of MSP. Those who have MSP possess a higher risk of HIV transmission than individuals that do not have multiple sex partners.\n\nWHO uses indicators, such as MSP, age, mortality, morbidity, geographical location and signs and symptoms of disease. This is done so that change can be measured and so that the effect of indicators can be assessed.\n\nFollowing the initial quantification of the number of MSP, the respondent is again surveyed three and then five years later. In addition to the survey, respondents' sexual histories are obtained. Analysis assists those conducting the study to verify and help define the term MSP.\n\nFor the indicator MSP, WHO has defined a summary of what it measures, rationale for the indicator, numerator, denominator and calculation, recommended measurement tools, measurement, frequency, and the strengths and weaknesses of the indicator.\n\nWHO's definition of MSP has some strengths and weaknesses The quantification is an indicator and a picture of the levels of higher-risk sex in a locale. If those surveyed changed their activity to one sexual partner, the change will be quantified by changes in the indicator. This disadvantage is that though a respondent may reduce the number of MSP in a 12 month period, the indicator will not reflect this change in sexual activity. Even so, decreasing the number of MSP may not indicate a change. Potentially this definition and quantification may have a significant impact on the pandemic of HIV and used as a measure of program success. WHO recommends that additional indicators that quantify MSP more precisely to capture the reduction in multiple sexual partners in general. According to the CDC’s Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, having multiple sex partners has been quantified to mean that those greater than or equal to age 25 had four or more sexual partners in one year.\n\nEpidemiologists in Tanzania used the indicator MSP in their study of AIDS incidence among 15-19-year-olds by documenting the respondent as being sexually active and having MSP in the last 12 months.\n\nA complete medical history includes an assessment of the number sexual partners with which a person has had within a certain time period.\n\nA social history (abbreviated \"SocHx\") that part of a medical exam addressing familial, occupational, and recreational aspects of the patient's personal life that have the potential to be clinically important. MSP is only the description of the behavior described in clinical terms. Promiscuity can mean that a moral judgement is made because some parts of societies promote sexual activity to occur only within exclusive, single-partner, committed relationships. is often the way researchers define a society's promiscuity levels at any given time. MSP increases the risk of many diseases and other conditions.\n\nThe CDC in the past has quantified MSP for adolescents with the following descriptions:\n\nSome clinicians define MSP by also taking into account concurrent sexual relationships.\n\nThe likelihood of developing substance abuse or dependence increases linearly with the number of sex partners, an effect more pronounced for women. People who have a higher number of sex partners do not have higher rates of anxiety or depression.\n\nMSP increases the risk of developing bacterial vaginosis. MSP can result in pregnant women with a greater risk of contracting HIV. HIV is strongly associated with having MSP. Having multiple sex partners is associated with higher incidences of STIs. \n\nPrevention of disease strategies include intensive counseling of those who have met the definition of multiple sex partners.\n\nIn Jamaica one of the primary contributing associations to the AIDS/HIV epidemic is the risky behavior of having multiple sex partners. A 2004 Behavioral Surveillance Survey demonstrated that 89 percent of males and 78 percent of females aged 15 to 24 had sex with a nonmarital or noncohabitating partner in the preceding 12 months. Fifty-six percent of males and 16 percent of females had multiple sex partners in the preceding 12 months.\n\nIn Sub-sahara Africa, travel and wealth is a risk factor in engaging in sexual activities with multiple sex partners.\n"}
{"id": "16709519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16709519", "title": "Narrative verdict", "text": "Narrative verdict\n\nA narrative verdict is a verdict available to coroners in England and Wales and in Ireland following an inquest. In such a verdict the circumstances of a death are recorded with a brief free-form conclusion either instead of or in addition to one of the standard (and familiar) Short-Form Conclusions. Narrative verdicts were introduced in 2004.\n\nThe inquest into the death of Charlotte Shaw concluded with a narrative verdict in October 2010. Charlotte Shaw drowned while crossing a swollen stream on Dartmoor during training for Ten Tors in 2007.\n\nA coroner delivered a narrative verdict into the death of Secret Intelligence Service officer Gareth Williams whose decaying corpse was found padlocked into a red sports bag in the bath at his home in August 2010.\n"}
{"id": "17323086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17323086", "title": "National Association of Free and Charitable Clinics", "text": "National Association of Free and Charitable Clinics\n\nThe National Association of Free & Charitable Clinics (NAFC) is a national non-profit association of free medical clinics in the United States, which are themselves community-based, non-profit, volunteer-supported free clinics serving the people without or with little health insurance.\n\nThe national organization performs public policy advocacy and acts as a conduit for donations to free clinics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7009723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7009723", "title": "National Birth Control League", "text": "National Birth Control League\n\nThe National Birth Control League was a United States organization founded in the early 20th century to promote the education and use of birth control. \nIt was founded in 1915 by Mary Dennett, Jesse Ashley and Clara Gruening Stillman, while Margaret Sanger was in Europe, to improve birth control education and prevent legislation that would prohibit the dissemination of birth control information. It published birth control literature, drafted federal legislation, and held conferences at its Fifth Avenue headquarters. Its activities were published in the \"Birth Control Review\". \n\nA committee was formed of 100 women to support the birth control activism work of Margaret Sanger. On the whole, though, the organization was subtler than Sanger in approach. It targeted much of its activities towards conservative and wealthy individuals. It eschewed membership of extremists, like Emma Goldman, and it particularly sought to spotlight the \"scientific\" aspects of birth control in an era when the topic was considered obscene. Parents in 24 states were not allowed to discuss contraception with their married children.\n\nIn 1919, Mary Dennett pushed for a birth control bill in the New York legislature, which failed. As a result, the National Birth Control League was dismantled. Dennett immediately formed a new organization, the Voluntary Parenthood League. Her sole purpose was to revise federal obscenity-focused legislation to exclude birth control, rather than tackle the issue on a state-by-state basis.\n\nThe organization's successor was the American Birth Control League, founded by Margaret Sanger \"to enlighten and educate all sections of the American public in the various aspects of the dangers of uncontrolled procreation and the imperative necessity of a world program of Birth Control.\" The American Birth Control League later became Planned Parenthood.\n\n"}
{"id": "5853960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5853960", "title": "Natural growth promoter", "text": "Natural growth promoter\n\nNatural growth promoters (NGPs) are feed additives for farm animals.\n\nDifferent categories of feed additives for farm animals are referred to as natural growth promoters (NGPs) or non-antibiotic growth promoters. They are commonly regarded as favorable alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) in livestock production.\n\nNGPs include predominantly organic acids, probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics, phytogenics, tannins, feed enzymes and immune stimulants., an ongoing search for alternatives has created a large variety of NGPs for pigs, poultry, ruminants and aquatic species.\n\nThe main advantage of NGPs over AGPs is that they do usually not bear any risk regarding bacterial resistance or undesired residues in animal products such as meat, milk or eggs. Addition of NGPs to feeds of farm animals may have a number of beneficial effects, including:\n\nAcidifiers, such as organic acids or their salts, are used to prevent microbial degradation of raw materials or finished feeds, especially under poor storage conditions (e.g. high moisture content, high levels of contamination with molds). Moreover, acidifiers may improve growth performance through establishment of low gastrointestinal pH conditions which support endogenous digestive enzymes and reduce undesired gut microorganisms. Many dietary acidifiers are based on propionic acid, formic acid, lactic acid and others, either as single components or in combination. Some acidifiers also contain inorganic acids (e.g. phosphoric acid).\n\nProbiotics are live microorganisms or viable spores which support the development of a beneficial gut microflora. Probiotic bacteria (e.g. from the genera \"Lactobacillus\", \"Bifidobacterium\", \"Enterococcus\") counteract undesired microorganisms such as \"Salmonella\" or \"E. coli\" by blocking receptors on the gut wall, production of antimicrobial substances or activation of the immune system.\n\nPrebiotics are carbohydrates which are indigestible for the host animal. On the other hand, they are selectively fermented by beneficial gut bacteria and, therefore, support a healthy gut microflora. These include fructose oligosaccharides (FOS) including inulin, transgalactose oligosaccharides (GOS), xylooligosaccharides (XOS) and soy oligosaccharides such as stachyose, verbose and raffinose. Mannan oligosaccharides are sometimes included as prebiotics but are not fermentable. This was confirmed by Smiricky-Tjardes \"et al.\" at the University of Illinois and so might be more appropriately termed immunosaccharides since they act as decoys for pathogen attachment (\"Salmonella\" and \"E. Coli\") and result in increased immunoglobulins (IgAs) at intestinal level.\n\nCombined administration of probiotics and prebiotics, referred to as synbiotics, is supposed to cause synergistic effects in terms of gut health and performance.\n\nPhytogenics are derived from herbs, spices or aromatic plants and have shown antimicrobial, antifungal, antiviral, antioxidant or sedative properties. They are known for their appetizing effects, since they increase the palatability of the feed and stimulate endogenous digestive enzymes. Moreover, phytogenics have a pronounced impact on the gut microflora.\n\nTannins are polyphenolic compounds produced by plants, ranging in concentrations from <2% to more than 20% of dry weight and may protect plants from herbivore, increase resistance against pathogens, or protect tissues such as wood against decay. In-vitro and in-vivo results suggest that two of the most abundant and common source of tannins, chestnut (\"Castanea sativa\"; hydrolyzable tannins) and quebracho (\"Schinopsis lorentzii\", condensed tannins) extracts, are effective to reduce and control infection. Moreover are considered a natural alternative to AGPs due to the difficulty of bacteria to develop resistance against the diverse range of molecules that contain these plant compounds.\n\nAnimal feeds contain varying levels of indigestible nutrients and undesired components such as fiber, phytate or proteins with antigenic effects. Different feed enzymes such as, carbohydrases, phytases or proteases, can be included in feeds to improve the utilization of energy and nutrients or to degrade several undesired components. Moreover, some enzymes (e.g. amylases, lipases) can be added to the feed of young animals in order to support the endogenous enzyme secretions.\n\nDifferent feed additives may function as stimulator or modulator of immunity processes. Specific cell wall fragments from bacteria or yeasts or sea algae may induce activation of immune cells (e.g. macrophages, lymphocytes).\n\nThis Article\n\n"}
{"id": "21525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21525", "title": "Nutrition", "text": "Nutrition\n\nNutrition is the science that interprets the interaction of nutrients and other substances in food in relation to maintenance, growth, reproduction, health and disease of an organism. It includes food intake, absorption, assimilation, biosynthesis, catabolism, and excretion.\n\nThe diet of an organism is what it eats, which is largely determined by the availability and palatability of foods. For humans, a healthy diet includes preparation of food and storage methods that preserve nutrients from oxidation, heat or leaching, and that reduce risk of foodborne illnesses.\n\nIn humans, an unhealthy diet can cause deficiency-related diseases such as blindness, anemia, scurvy, preterm birth, stillbirth and cretinism, or nutrient excess health-threatening conditions such as obesity and metabolic syndrome; and such common chronic systemic diseases as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and osteoporosis. Undernutrition can lead to wasting in acute cases, and the stunting of marasmus in chronic cases of malnutrition.\n\nThe first recorded dietary advice, carved into a Babylonian stone tablet in about 2500 BC, cautioned those with pain inside to avoid eating onions for three days. Scurvy, later found to be a vitamin C deficiency, was first described in 1500 BC in the Ebers Papyrus.\n\nAccording to Walter Gratzer, the study of nutrition probably began during the 6th century BC. In China, the concept of \"qi\" developed, a spirit or \"wind\" similar to what Western Europeans later called \"pneuma\". Food was classified into \"hot\" (for example, meats, blood, ginger, and hot spices) and \"cold\" (green vegetables) in China, India, Malaya, and Persia. \"Humours\" developed perhaps first in China alongside \"qi\". Ho the Physician concluded that diseases are caused by deficiencies of elements (Wu Xing: fire, water, earth, wood, and metal), and he classified diseases as well as prescribed diets. About the same time in Italy, Alcmaeon of Croton (a Greek) wrote of the importance of equilibrium between what goes in and what goes out, and warned that imbalance would result in disease marked by obesity or emaciation.\n\nThe first recorded nutritional experiment with human subjects is found in the Bible's Book of Daniel. Daniel and his friends were captured by the king of Babylon during an invasion of Israel. Selected as court servants, they were to share in the king's fine foods and wine. But they objected, preferring vegetables (pulses) and water in accordance with their Jewish dietary restrictions. The king's chief steward reluctantly agreed to a trial. Daniel and his friends received their diet for ten days and were then compared to the king's men. Appearing healthier, they were allowed to continue with their diet.\n\nAround 475 BC, Anaxagoras stated that food is absorbed by the human body and, therefore, contains \"homeomerics\" (generative components), suggesting the existence of nutrients. Around 400 BC, Hippocrates, who recognized and was concerned with obesity, which may have been common in southern Europe at the time, said, \"Let food be your medicine and medicine be your food.\" The works that are still attributed to him, \"Corpus Hippocraticum\", called for moderation and emphasized exercise.\nSalt, pepper and other spices were prescribed for various ailments in various preparations for example mixed with vinegar. In the 2nd century BC, Cato the Elder believed that cabbage (or the urine of cabbage-eaters) could cure digestive diseases, ulcers, warts, and intoxication. Living about the turn of the millennium, Aulus Celsus, an ancient Roman doctor, believed in \"strong\" and \"weak\" foods (bread for example was strong, as were older animals and vegetables).\n\nOne mustn't overlook the doctrines of Galen: In use from his life in the 1st century AD until the 17th century, it was heresy to disagree with him for 1500 years. Galen was physician to gladiators in Pergamon, and in Rome, physician to Marcus Aurelius and the three emperors who succeeded him. Most of Galen's teachings were gathered and enhanced in the late 11th century by Benedictine monks at the School of Salerno in \"Regimen sanitatis Salernitanum\", which still had users in the 17th century. Galen believed in the bodily \"humours\" of Hippocrates, and he taught that \"pneuma\" is the source of life. Four elements (earth, air, fire and water) combine into \"complexion\", which combines into states (the four temperaments: sanguine, phlegmatic, choleric, and melancholic). The states are made up of pairs of attributes (hot and moist, cold and moist, hot and dry, and cold and dry), which are made of four humours: blood, phlegm, green (or yellow) bile, and black bile (the bodily form of the elements). Galen thought that for a person to have gout, kidney stones, or arthritis was scandalous, which Gratzer likens to Samuel Butler's \"Erehwon\" (1872) where sickness is a crime.\n\nIn the 1500s, Paracelsus was probably the first to criticize Galen publicly. Also in the 16th century, scientist and artist Leonardo da Vinci compared metabolism to a burning candle. Leonardo did not publish his works on this subject, but he was not afraid of thinking for himself and he definitely disagreed with Galen. Ultimately, 16th century works of Andreas Vesalius, sometimes called the father of modern human anatomy, overturned Galen's ideas. He was followed by piercing thought amalgamated with the era's mysticism and religion sometimes fueled by the mechanics of Newton and Galileo. Jan Baptist van Helmont, who discovered several gases such as carbon dioxide, performed the first quantitative experiment. Robert Boyle advanced chemistry. Sanctorius measured body weight. Physician Herman Boerhaave modeled the digestive process. Physiologist Albrecht von Haller worked out the difference between nerves and muscles.\n\nSometimes forgotten during his life, James Lind, a physician in the British navy, performed the first scientific nutrition experiment in 1747. Lind discovered that lime juice saved sailors that had been at sea for years from scurvy, a deadly and painful bleeding disorder. Between 1500 and 1800, an estimated two million sailors had died of scurvy. The discovery was ignored for forty years, after which British sailors became known as \"limeys.\" The essential vitamin C within citrus fruits would not be identified by scientists until 1932.\n\nAround 1770, Antoine Lavoisier discovered the details of metabolism, demonstrating that the oxidation of food is the source of body heat. Called the most fundamental chemical discovery of the 18th century, Lavoisier discovered the principle of conservation of mass. His ideas made the phlogiston theory of combustion obsolete.\n\nIn 1790, George Fordyce recognized calcium as necessary for the survival of fowl. In the early 19th century, the elements carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen were recognized as the primary components of food, and methods to measure their proportions were developed.\n\nIn 1816, François Magendie discovered that dogs fed only carbohydrates (sugar), fat (olive oil), and water died evidently of starvation, but dogs also fed protein survived, identifying protein as an essential dietary component. William Prout in 1827 was the first person to divide foods into carbohydrates, fat, and protein. During the 19th century, Jean-Baptiste Dumas and Justus von Liebig quarrelled over their shared belief that animals get their protein directly from plants (animal and plant protein are the same and that humans do not create organic compounds). With a reputation as the leading organic chemist of his day but with no credentials in animal physiology, Liebig grew rich making food extracts like beef bouillon and infant formula that were later found to be of questionable nutritious value. In the 1860s, Claude Bernard discovered that body fat can be synthesized from carbohydrate and protein, showing that the energy in blood glucose can be stored as fat or as glycogen.\nIn the early 1880s, Kanehiro Takaki observed that Japanese sailors (whose diets consisted almost entirely of white rice) developed beriberi (or endemic neuritis, a disease causing heart problems and paralysis), but British sailors and Japanese naval officers did not. Adding various types of vegetables and meats to the diets of Japanese sailors prevented the disease, (not because of the increased protein as Takaki supposed but because it introduced a few parts per million of thiamine to the diet, later understood as a cure).\n\nIn 1896, Eugen Baumann observed iodine in thyroid glands. In 1897, Christiaan Eijkman worked with natives of Java, who also suffered from beriberi. Eijkman observed that chickens fed the native diet of white rice developed the symptoms of beriberi but remained healthy when fed unprocessed brown rice with the outer bran intact. His assistant, Gerrit Grijns correctly identified and described the anti-beriberi substance in rice. Eijkman cured the natives by feeding them brown rice, discovering that food can cure disease. Over two decades later, nutritionists learned that the outer rice bran contains vitamin B1, also known as thiamine.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Carl von Voit and Max Rubner independently measured caloric energy expenditure in different species of animals, applying principles of physics in nutrition. In 1906, Edith G. Willcock and Frederick Hopkins showed that the amino acid tryptophan aids the well-being of mice but it did not assure their growth. In the middle of twelve years of attempts to isolate them, Hopkins said in a 1906 lecture that \"unsuspected dietetic factors,\" other than calories, protein, and minerals, are needed to prevent deficiency diseases. In 1907, Stephen M. Babcock and Edwin B. Hart started the cow feeding, single-grain experiment, which took nearly four years to complete.\nIn 1912, Casimir Funk coined the term vitamin, a vital factor in the diet, from the words \"vital\" and \"amine,\" because these unknown substances preventing scurvy, beriberi, and pellagra, were thought then to be derived from ammonia. The vitamins were studied in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nIn 1913, Elmer McCollum and Marguerite Davis discovered the first vitamin, fat-soluble vitamin A, then water-soluble vitamin B (in 1915; now known to be a complex of several water-soluble vitamins) and named vitamin C as the then-unknown substance preventing scurvy. Lafayette Mendel and Thomas Osborne also performed pioneering work on vitamins A and B. In 1919, Sir Edward Mellanby incorrectly identified rickets as a vitamin A deficiency because he could cure it in dogs with cod liver oil. In 1922, McCollum destroyed the vitamin A in cod liver oil, but found that it still cured rickets. Also in 1922, H.M. Evans and L.S. Bishop discover vitamin E as essential for rat pregnancy, originally calling it \"food factor X\" until 1925.\n\nIn 1925, Hart discovered that trace amounts of copper are necessary for iron absorption. In 1927, Adolf Otto Reinhold Windaus synthesized vitamin D, and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1928. In 1928, Albert Szent-Györgyi isolated ascorbic acid, and in 1932 proved that it is vitamin C by preventing scurvy. In 1935, he synthesized it, and in 1937, he won a Nobel Prize for his efforts. Szent-Györgyi concurrently elucidated much of the citric acid cycle.\n\nIn the 1930s, William Cumming Rose identified essential amino acids, necessary protein components that the body cannot synthesize. In 1935, Underwood and Marston independently discovered the necessity of cobalt. In 1936, Eugene Floyd DuBois showed that work and school performance are related to caloric intake. In 1938, Erhard Fernholz discovered the chemical structure of vitamin E and then he tragically disappeared. It was synthesised the same year by Paul Karrer.\n\nIn 1940, rationing in the United Kingdom during and after World War II took place according to nutritional principles drawn up by Elsie Widdowson and others. In 1941, the first Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) were established by the National Research Council.\n\nIn 1992, The U.S. Department of Agriculture introduced the Food Guide Pyramid. This replaced the Four Food Groups (1956-1992) and was superseded by the concept of MyPlate (2011–present).\n\nThe list of nutrients that people are known to require is, in the words of Marion Nestle, \"almost certainly incomplete\". As of 2014, nutrients are thought to be of two types: macro-nutrients which are needed in relatively large amounts, and micronutrients which are needed in smaller quantities. A type of carbohydrate, dietary fiber, i.e. non-digestible material such as cellulose, is required, for both mechanical and biochemical reasons, although the exact reasons remain unclear. Some nutrients can be stored - the fat-soluble vitamins - while others are required more or less continuously. Poor health can be caused by a lack of required nutrients, or for some vitamins and minerals, too much of a required nutrient.\n\nThe macronutrients are carbohydrates, fiber, fats, protein, and water.\nThe macronutrients (excluding fiber and water) provide structural material (amino acids from which proteins are built, and lipids from which cell membranes and some signaling molecules are built) and energy. Some of the structural material can be used to generate energy internally, and in either case it is measured in Joules or kilocalories (often called \"Calories\" and written with a capital \"C\" to distinguish them from little 'c' calories). Carbohydrates and proteins provide 17 kJ approximately (4 kcal) of energy per gram, while fats provide 37 kJ (9 kcal) per gram, though the net energy from either depends on such factors as absorption and digestive effort, which vary substantially from instance to instance. Vitamins, minerals, fiber, and water do not provide energy, but are required for other reasons.\n\nMolecules of carbohydrates and fats consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. Carbohydrates range from simple monosaccharides (glucose, fructose and galactose) to complex polysaccharides (starch). Fats are triglycerides, made of assorted fatty acid monomers bound to a glycerol backbone. Some fatty acids, but not all, are essential in the diet: they cannot be synthesized in the body. Protein molecules contain nitrogen atoms in addition to carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. The fundamental components of protein are nitrogen-containing amino acids, some of which are essential in the sense that humans cannot make them internally. Some of the amino acids are convertible (with the expenditure of energy) to glucose and can be used for energy production, just as ordinary glucose, in a process known as gluconeogenesis. By breaking down existing protein, the carbon skeleton of the various amino acids can be metabolized to intermediates in cellular respiration; the remaining ammonia is discarded primarily as urea in urine.\n\nCarbohydrates may be classified as monosaccharides, disaccharides, or polysaccharides depending on the number of monomer (sugar) units they contain. They constitute a large part of foods such as rice, noodles, bread, and other grain-based products, also potatoes , yams, beans, fruits, fruit juices and vegetables.\nMonosaccharides, disaccharides, and polysaccharides contain one, two, and three or more sugar units, respectively. Polysaccharides are often referred to as \"complex\" carbohydrates because they are typically long, multiple branched chains of sugar units.\n\nTraditionally, simple carbohydrates are believed to be absorbed quickly, and therefore to raise blood-glucose levels more rapidly than complex carbohydrates. This, however, is not accurate. Some simple carbohydrates (e.g., fructose) follow different metabolic pathways (e.g., fructolysis) that result in only a partial catabolism to glucose, while, in essence, many complex carbohydrates may be digested at the same rate as simple carbohydrates. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that added sugars should represent no more than 10% of total energy intake.\n\nDietary fiber is a carbohydrate that is incompletely absorbed in humans and in some animals. Like all carbohydrates, when it is metabolized it can produce four Calories (kilocalories) of energy per gram. However, in most circumstances it accounts for less than that because of its limited absorption and digestibility. Dietary fiber consists mainly of cellulose, a large carbohydrate polymer which is indigestible as humans do not have the required enzymes to disassemble it. There are two subcategories: soluble and insoluble fiber. Whole grains, fruits (especially plums, prunes, and figs), and vegetables are good sources of dietary fiber. There are many health benefits of a high-fiber diet. Dietary fiber helps reduce the chance of gastrointestinal problems such as constipation and diarrhea by increasing the weight and size of stool and softening it. Insoluble fiber, found in whole wheat flour, nuts and vegetables, especially stimulates peristalsis;– the rhythmic muscular contractions of the intestines, which move digest along the digestive tract. Soluble fiber, found in oats, peas, beans, and many fruits, dissolves in water in the intestinal tract to produce a gel that slows the movement of food through the intestines. This may help lower blood glucose levels because it can slow the absorption of sugar. Additionally, fiber, perhaps especially that from whole grains, is thought to possibly help lessen insulin spikes, and therefore reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. The link between increased fiber consumption and a decreased risk of colorectal cancer is still uncertain.\n\nA molecule of dietary fat typically consists of several fatty acids (containing long chains of carbon and hydrogen atoms), bonded to a glycerol. They are typically found as triglycerides (three fatty acids attached to one glycerol backbone). Fats may be classified as saturated or unsaturated depending on the detailed structure of the fatty acids involved. Saturated fats have all of the carbon atoms in their fatty acid chains bonded to hydrogen atoms, whereas unsaturated fats have some of these carbon atoms double-bonded, so their molecules have relatively fewer hydrogen atoms than a saturated fatty acid of the same length. Unsaturated fats may be further classified as monounsaturated (one double-bond) or polyunsaturated (many double-bonds). Furthermore, depending on the location of the double-bond in the fatty acid chain, unsaturated fatty acids are classified as omega-3 or omega-6 fatty acids. Trans fats are a type of unsaturated fat with \"trans\"-isomer bonds; these are rare in nature and in foods from natural sources; they are typically created in an industrial process called (partial) hydrogenation. There are nine kilocalories in each gram of fat. Fatty acids such as conjugated linoleic acid, catalpic acid, eleostearic acid and punicic acid, in addition to providing energy, represent potent immune modulatory molecules.\n\nSaturated fats (typically from animal sources) have been a staple in many world cultures for millennia. Unsaturated fats (e. g., vegetable oil) are considered healthier, while trans fats are to be avoided. Saturated and some trans fats are typically solid at room temperature (such as butter or lard), while unsaturated fats are typically liquids (such as olive oil or flaxseed oil). Trans fats are very rare in nature, and have been shown to be highly detrimental to human health, but have properties useful in the food processing industry, such as rancidity resistance.\n\nMost fatty acids are non-essential, meaning the body can produce them as needed, generally from other fatty acids and always by expending energy to do so. However, in humans, at least two fatty acids are essential and must be included in the diet. An appropriate balance of essential fatty acids—omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids—seems also important for health, although definitive experimental demonstration has been elusive. Both of these \"omega\" long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids are substrates for a class of eicosanoids known as prostaglandins, which have roles throughout the human body. They are hormones, in some respects. The omega-3 eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which can be made in the human body from the omega-3 essential fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), or taken in through marine food sources, serves as a building block for series 3 prostaglandins (e.g., weakly inflammatory PGE3). The omega-6 dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (DGLA) serves as a building block for series 1 prostaglandins (e.g. anti-inflammatory PGE1), whereas arachidonic acid (AA) serves as a building block for series 2 prostaglandins (e.g. pro-inflammatory PGE 2). Both DGLA and AA can be made from the omega-6 linoleic acid (LA) in the human body, or can be taken in directly through food. An appropriately balanced intake of omega-3 and omega-6 partly determines the relative production of different prostaglandins, which is one reason why a balance between omega-3 and omega-6 is believed important for cardiovascular health. In industrialized societies, people typically consume large amounts of processed vegetable oils, which have reduced amounts of the essential fatty acids along with too much of omega-6 fatty acids relative to omega-3 fatty acids.\n\nThe conversion rate of omega-6 DGLA to AA largely determines the production of the prostaglandins PGE1 and PGE2. Omega-3 EPA prevents AA from being released from membranes, thereby skewing prostaglandin balance away from pro-inflammatory PGE2 (made from AA) toward anti-inflammatory PGE1 (made from DGLA). Moreover, the conversion (desaturation) of DGLA to AA is controlled by the enzyme delta-5-desaturase, which in turn is controlled by hormones such as insulin (up-regulation) and glucagon (down-regulation). The amount and type of carbohydrates consumed, along with some types of amino acid, can influence processes involving insulin, glucagon, and other hormones; therefore, the ratio of omega-3 versus omega-6 has wide effects on general health, and specific effects on immune function and inflammation, and mitosis (i.e., cell division).\n\nProteins are structural materials in much of the animal body (e.g. muscles, skin, and hair). They also form the enzymes that control chemical reactions throughout the body. Each protein molecule is composed of amino acids, which are characterized by inclusion of nitrogen and sometimes sulphur (these components are responsible for the distinctive smell of burning protein, such as the keratin in hair). The body requires amino acids to produce new proteins (protein retention) and to replace damaged proteins (maintenance). As there is no protein or amino acid storage provision, amino acids must be present in the diet. Excess amino acids are discarded, typically in the urine. For all animals, some amino acids are \"essential\" (an animal cannot produce them internally) and some are \"non-essential\" (the animal can produce them from other nitrogen-containing compounds). About twenty amino acids are found in the human body, and about ten of these are essential and, therefore, must be included in the diet. A diet that contains adequate amounts of amino acids (especially those that are essential) is particularly important in some situations: during early development and maturation, pregnancy, lactation, or injury (a burn, for instance). A \"complete\" protein source contains all the essential amino acids; an \"incomplete\" protein source lacks one or more of the essential amino acids.\n\nIt is possible with protein combinations of two incomplete protein sources (e.g., rice and beans) to make a complete protein source, and characteristic combinations are the basis of distinct cultural cooking traditions. However, complementary sources of protein do not need to be eaten at the same meal to be used together by the body. Excess amino acids from protein can be converted into glucose and used for fuel through a process called gluconeogenesis.\n\nWater is excreted from the body in multiple forms; including urine and feces, sweating, and by water vapour in the exhaled breath. Therefore, it is necessary to adequately rehydrate to replace lost fluids.\n\nEarly recommendations for the quantity of water required for maintenance of good health suggested that 6–8 glasses of water daily is the minimum to maintain proper hydration. However the notion that a person should consume eight glasses of water per day cannot be traced to a credible scientific source. The original water intake recommendation in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council read: \"An ordinary standard for diverse persons is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this quantity is contained in prepared foods.\" More recent comparisons of well-known recommendations on fluid intake have revealed large discrepancies in the volumes of water we need to consume for good health. Therefore, to help standardize guidelines, recommendations for water consumption are included in two recent European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) documents (2010): (i) Food-based dietary guidelines and (ii) Dietary reference values for water or adequate daily intakes (ADI). These specifications were provided by calculating adequate intakes from measured intakes in populations of individuals with “desirable osmolarity values of urine and desirable water volumes per energy unit consumed.”\n\nFor healthful hydration, the current EFSA guidelines recommend total water intakes of 2.0 L/day for adult females and 2.5 L/day for adult males. These reference values include water from drinking water, other beverages, and from food. About 80% of our daily water requirement comes from the beverages we drink, with the remaining 20% coming from food. Water content varies depending on the type of food consumed, with fruit and vegetables containing more than cereals, for example. These values are estimated using country-specific food balance sheets published by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations.\n\nThe EFSA panel also determined intakes for different populations. Recommended intake volumes in the elderly are the same as for adults as despite lower energy consumption, the water requirement of this group is increased due to a reduction in renal concentrating capacity. Pregnant and breastfeeding women require additional fluids to stay hydrated. The EFSA panel proposes that pregnant women should consume the same volume of water as non-pregnant women, plus an increase in proportion to the higher energy requirement, equal to 300 mL/day. To compensate for additional fluid output, breastfeeding women require an additional 700 mL/day above the recommended intake values for non-lactating women. Dehydration and over-hydration - too little and too much water, respectively - can have harmful consequences. Drinking too much water is one of the possible causes of hyponatremia, i.e., low serum sodium.\n\nPure ethanol provides 7 calories per gram. For distilled spirits, a standard serving in the United States is 1.5 fluid ounces, which at 40% ethanol (80 proof), would be 14 grams and 98 calories. Wine and beer contain a similar range of ethanol for servings of 5 ounces and 12 ounces, respectively, but these beverages also contain non-ethanol calories. A 5 ounce serving of wine contains 100 to 130 calories. A 12 ounce serving of beer contains 95 to 200 calories. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, based on NHANES 2013-2014 surveys, women ages 20 and up consume on average 6.8 grams/day and men consume on average 15.5 grams/day. Ignoring the non-alcohol contribution of those beverages, the average ethanol calorie contributions are 48 and 108 cal/day. Alcoholic beverages are considered empty calorie foods because other than calories, these contribute no essential nutrients.\n\nThe micronutrients are minerals, vitamins, and others.\n\nDietary minerals are inorganic chemical elements required by living organisms, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen that are present in nearly all organic molecules. The term \"mineral\" is archaic, since the intent is to describe simply the less common elements in the diet. Some are heavier than the four just mentioned, including several metals, which often occur as ions in the body. Some dietitians recommend that these be supplied from foods in which they occur naturally, or at least as complex compounds, or sometimes even from natural inorganic sources (such as calcium carbonate from ground oyster shells). Some minerals are absorbed much more readily in the ionic forms found in such sources. On the other hand, minerals are often artificially added to the diet as supplements; the most famous is likely iodine in iodized salt which prevents goiter.\n\nMany elements are essential nutrients called dietary minerals. Some have roles as cofactors, while others are electrolytes. Elements with recommended dietary allowance (RDA) greater than 150  mg/day are, in alphabetical order:\n\nMany elements are required in trace amounts, usually because they play a catalytic role in enzymes. Some trace mineral elements (RDA < 200 mg/day) are, in alphabetical order:\n\nVitamins are essential nutrients, necessary in the diet for good health. (Vitamin D is an exception, as it can be synthesized in the skin in the presence of UVB radiation, and many animal species can synthesize vitamin C.) Vitamin deficiencies may result in disease conditions, including goitre, scurvy, osteoporosis, impaired immune system, disorders of cell metabolism, certain forms of cancer, symptoms of premature aging, and poor psychological health, among many others. Excess levels of some vitamins are also dangerous to health. The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine has established Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs) for seven vitamins.\n\nPhytochemicals such as polyphenols are compounds produced naturally in plants (phyto means \"plant\" in Greek). In general, the term identifies compounds that are prevalent in plant foods, but are not proven to be essential for human nutrition, as of 2018. There is no conclusive evidence in humans that polyphenols or other non-nutrient compounds from plants confer health benefits, mainly because these compounds have poor bioavailability, i,e., following ingestion, they are digested into smaller metabolites with unknown functions, then are rapidly eliminated from the body. \n\nWhile initial studies sought to reveal if dietary supplements might promote health, one meta-analysis concluded that supplementation with antioxidant vitamins A and E and beta-carotene did not convey any benefits, and may increase risk of death. Vitamin C and selenium supplements did not impact mortality rate. Health effects of non-nutrient phytochemicals such as polyphenols were not assessed in this review.\n\nAnimal intestines contain a large population of gut flora. In humans, the four dominant phyla are Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria. They are essential to digestion and are also affected by food that is consumed. Bacteria in the large intestine perform many important functions for humans, including breaking down and aiding in the absorption of fermentable fiber, stimulating cell growth, repressing the growth of harmful bacteria, training the immune system to respond only to pathogens, producing vitamin B, and defending against some infectious diseases. \"Probiotics\" refers to the idea of deliberately consuming live bacteria in an attempt to change the bacterial population in the large intestine, to the health benefit of the host human or animal. \"Prebiotic (nutrition)\" refers to the idea that consuming a bacterial energy source such as soluble fiber could support the population of health-beneficial bacteria in the large intestine. There is not yet a scientific consensus as to health benefits accruing from probiotics or prebiotics.\n\nCarnivore and herbivore diets are contrasting, with basic nitrogen and carbon proportions vary for their particular foods. Many herbivores rely on bacterial fermentation to create digestible nutrients from indigestible plant cellulose, while obligate carnivores must eat animal meats to obtain certain vitamins or nutrients their bodies cannot otherwise synthesize.\n\nPlant nutrition is the study of the chemical elements that are necessary for plant growth. There are several principles that apply to plant nutrition. Some elements are directly involved in plant metabolism. However, this principle does not account for the so-called beneficial elements, whose presence, while not required, has clear positive effects on plant growth.\n\nA nutrient that is able to limit plant growth according to Liebig's law of the minimum is considered an essential plant nutrient if the plant cannot complete its full life cycle without it. There are 16 essential plant soil nutrients, besides the three major elemental nutrients carbon and oxygen that are obtained by photosynthetic plants from carbon dioxide in air, and hydrogen, which is obtained from water.\n\nPlants uptake essential elements from the soil through their roots and from the air (consisting of mainly nitrogen and oxygen) through their leaves. Green plants obtain their carbohydrate supply from the carbon dioxide in the air by the process of photosynthesis. Carbon and oxygen are absorbed from the air, while other nutrients are absorbed from the soil. Nutrient uptake in the soil is achieved by cation exchange, wherein root hairs pump hydrogen ions (H) into the soil through proton pumps. These hydrogen ions displace cations attached to negatively charged soil particles so that the cations are available for uptake by the root. In the leaves, stomata open to take in carbon dioxide and expel oxygen. The carbon dioxide molecules are used as the carbon source in photosynthesis.\n\nAlthough nitrogen is plentiful in the Earth's atmosphere, very few plants can use this directly. Most plants, therefore, require nitrogen compounds to be present in the soil in which they grow. This is made possible by the fact that largely inert atmospheric nitrogen is changed in a nitrogen fixation process to biologically usable forms in the soil by bacteria.\n\nPlant nutrition is a difficult subject to understand completely, partially because of the variation between different plants and even between different species or individuals of a given clone. Elements present at low levels may cause deficiency symptoms, and toxicity is possible at levels that are too high. Furthermore, deficiency of one element may present as symptoms of toxicity from another element, and vice versa.\n\nCanada's Food Guide is an example of a government-run nutrition program. Produced by Health Canada, the guide advises food quantities, provides education on balanced nutrition, and promotes physical activity in accordance with government-mandated nutrient needs. Like other nutrition programs around the world, Canada's Food Guide divides nutrition into four main food groups: vegetables and fruit, grain products, milk and alternatives, and meat and alternatives. Unlike its American counterpart, the Canadian guide references and provides alternative to meat and dairy, which can be attributed to the growing vegan and vegetarian movements.\n\nIn the US, nutritional standards and recommendations are established jointly by the US Department of Agriculture and US Department of Health and Human Services and these recommendations are published as the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. Dietary and physical activity guidelines from the USDA are presented in the concept of MyPlate, which superseded the food pyramid, which replaced the Four Food Groups. The Senate committee currently responsible for oversight of the USDA is the \"Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee\". Committee hearings are often televised on C-SPAN. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides a sample week-long menu that fulfills the nutritional recommendations of the government.\n\nGovernmental organisations have been working on nutrition literacy interventions in non-primary health care settings to address the nutrition information problem in the U.S. Some programs include:\n\nThe Family Nutrition Program (FNP) is a free nutrition education program serving low-income adults around the U.S. This program is funded by the Food Nutrition Service’s (FNS) branch of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) usually through a local state academic institution that runs the program. The FNP has developed a series of tools to help families participating in the Food Stamp Program stretch their food dollar and form healthful eating habits including nutrition education.\n\nExpanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (ENFEP) is a unique program that currently operates in all 50 states and in American Samoa, Guam, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. It is designed to assist limited-resource audiences in acquiring the knowledge, skills, attitudes, and changed behavior necessary for nutritionally sound diets, and to contribute to their personal development and the improvement of the total family diet and nutritional well-being.\n\nAn example of a state initiative to promote nutrition literacy is Smart Bodies, a public-private partnership between the state’s largest university system and largest health insurer, Louisiana State Agricultural Center and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Louisiana Foundation. Launched in 2005, this program promotes lifelong healthful eating patterns and physically active lifestyles for children and their families. It is an interactive educational program designed to help prevent childhood obesity through classroom activities that teach children healthful eating habits and physical exercise.\n\nNutrition is taught in schools in many countries. In England and Wales, the Personal and Social Education and Food Technology curricula include nutrition, stressing the importance of a balanced diet and teaching how to read nutrition labels on packaging. In many schools, a Nutrition class will fall within the Family and Consumer Science or Health departments. In some American schools, students are required to take a certain number of FCS or Health related classes. Nutrition is offered at many schools, and, if it is not a class of its own, nutrition is included in other FCS or Health classes such as: Life Skills, Independent Living, Single Survival, Freshmen Connection, Health etc. In many Nutrition classes, students learn about the food groups, the food pyramid, Daily Recommended Allowances, calories, vitamins, minerals, malnutrition, physical activity, healthful food choices, portion sizes, and how to live a healthy life.\n\nA 1985, US National Research Council report entitled \"Nutrition Education in US Medical Schools\" concluded that nutrition education in medical schools was inadequate. Only 20% of the schools surveyed taught nutrition as a separate, required course. A 2006 survey found that this number had risen to 30%. Membership by physicians in leading professional nutrition societies such as the American Society for Nutrition has generally declined from the 1990s.\n\nIn the US, Registered dietitian nutritionists (RDs or RDNs) are health professionals qualified to provide safe, evidence-based dietary advice which includes a review of what is eaten, a thorough review of nutritional health, and a personalized nutritional treatment plan. They also provide preventive and therapeutic programs at work places, schools and similar institutions. Certified Clinical Nutritionists or CCNs, are trained health professionals who also offer dietary advice on the role of nutrition in chronic disease, including possible prevention or remediation by addressing nutritional deficiencies before resorting to drugs. Government regulation especially in terms of licensing, is currently less universal for the CCN than that of RD or RDN. Another advanced Nutrition Professional is a Certified Nutrition Specialist or CNS. These Board Certified Nutritionists typically specialize in obesity and chronic disease. In order to become board certified, potential CNS candidate must pass an examination, much like Registered Dieticians. This exam covers specific domains within the health sphere including; Clinical Intervention and Human Health.\n\nThe findings of the 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) provide a basis upon which to frame the nutrition literacy problem in the U.S. NAAL introduced the first ever measure of \"the degree to which individuals have the capacity to obtain, process and understand basic health information and services needed to make appropriate health decisions\" – an objective of Healthy People 2010 and of which nutrition literacy might be considered an important subset. On a scale of below basic, basic, intermediate and proficient, NAAL found 13 percent of adult Americans have proficient health literacy, 44% have intermediate literacy, 29 percent have basic literacy and 14 percent have below basic health literacy. The study found that health literacy increases with education and people living below the level of poverty have lower health literacy than those above it.\n\nAnother study examining the health and nutrition literacy status of residents of the lower Mississippi Delta found that 52 percent of participants had a high likelihood of limited literacy skills. While a precise comparison between the NAAL and Delta studies is difficult, primarily because of methodological differences, Zoellner et al. suggest that health literacy rates in the Mississippi Delta region are different from the U.S. general population and that they help establish the scope of the problem of health literacy among adults in the Delta region. For example, only 12 percent of study participants identified the My Pyramid graphic two years after it had been launched by the USDA. The study also found significant relationships between nutrition literacy and income level and nutrition literacy and educational attainment further delineating priorities for the region.\n\nThese statistics point to the complexities surrounding the lack of health/nutrition literacy and reveal the degree to which they are embedded in the social structure and interconnected with other problems. Among these problems are the lack of information about food choices, a lack of understanding of nutritional information and its application to individual circumstances, limited or difficult access to healthful foods, and a range of cultural influences and socioeconomic constraints such as low levels of education and high levels of poverty that decrease opportunities for healthful eating and living.\n\nThe links between low health literacy and poor health outcomes has been widely documented and there is evidence that some interventions to improve health literacy have produced successful results in the primary care setting. More must be done to further our understanding of nutrition literacy specific interventions in non-primary care settings in order to achieve better health outcomes.\n\nMalnutrition refers to insufficient, excessive, or imbalanced consumption of nutrients by an organism. In developed countries, the diseases of malnutrition are most often associated with nutritional imbalances or excessive consumption. In developing countries, malnutrition is more likely to be caused by poor access to a range of nutritious foods or inadequate knowledge. In Mali, the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) and the Aga Khan Foundation trained women's groups to make \"equinut\", a healthy and nutritional version of the traditional recipe \"di-dèguè\" (comprising peanut paste, honey and millet or rice flour). The aim was to boost nutrition and livelihoods by producing a product that women could make and sell, and which would be accepted by the local community because of its local heritage.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Nutrition Board sets Estimated Average Requirements (EARs) and Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) for vitamins and minerals. EARs and RDAs are part of Dietary Reference Intakes. The DRI documents describe nutrient deficiency signs and symptoms.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Nutrition Board sets Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (known as ULs) for vitamins and minerals when evidence is sufficient. ULs are set a safe fraction below amounts shown to cause health problems. ULs are part of Dietary Reference Intakes. The European Food Safety Authority also reviews the same safety questions and set its own ULs.\n\nWhen too much of one or more nutrients is present in the diet to the exclusion of the proper amount of other nutrients, the diet is said to be unbalanced. High calorie food ingredients such as vegetable oils, sugar and alcohol are referred to as \"empty calories\" because they displace from the diet foods that also contain protein, vitamins, minerals and fiber.\n\nHealth and nutrition appear to have close links with overall educational success.\n\nNutritional supplement treatment may be appropriate for major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and obsessive compulsive disorder, the four most common mental disorders in developed countries. Supplements under study for possible effects on mood elevation and stabilization include eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, which are omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil.\n\nSince the Industrial Revolution some two hundred years ago, the food processing industry has invented many technologies that both help keep foods fresh longer and alter the fresh state of food as they appear in nature. Cooling is the primary technology used to maintain freshness, whereas many more technologies have been invented to allow foods to last longer without becoming spoiled. These latter technologies include pasteurisation, autoclavation, drying, salting, and separation of various components, all of which appearing to alter the original nutritional contents of food. Pasteurisation and autoclavation (heating techniques) have no doubt improved the safety of many common foods, preventing epidemics of bacterial infection. But some of the (new) food processing technologies have downfalls as well.\n\nModern separation techniques such as milling, centrifugation, and pressing have enabled concentration of particular components of food, yielding flour, oils, juices, and so on, and even separate fatty acids, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals. Inevitably, such large-scale concentration changes the nutritional content of food, saving certain nutrients while removing others. Heating techniques may also reduce food's content of many heat-labile nutrients such as certain vitamins and phytochemicals, and possibly other yet-to-be-discovered substances. Because of reduced nutritional value, processed foods are often 'enriched' or 'fortified' with some of the most critical nutrients (usually certain vitamins) that were lost during processing. Nonetheless, processed foods tend to have an inferior nutritional profile compared to whole, fresh foods, regarding content of both sugar and high GI starches, potassium/sodium, vitamins, fiber, and of intact, unoxidized (essential) fatty acids. In addition,\nprocessed foods often contain potentially harmful substances such as oxidized fats and trans fatty acids.\n\nA dramatic example of the effect of food processing on a population's health is the history of epidemics of beri-beri in people subsisting on polished rice. Removing the outer layer of rice by polishing it removes with it the essential vitamin thiamine, causing beri-beri. Another example is the development of scurvy among infants in the late 19th century in the United States. It turned out that the vast majority of sufferers were being fed milk that had been heat-treated (as suggested by Pasteur) to control bacterial disease. Pasteurisation was effective against bacteria, but it destroyed the vitamin C.\n\nAs mentioned, lifestyle- and obesity-related diseases are becoming increasingly prevalent all around the world. There is little doubt that the increasingly widespread application of some modern food processing technologies has contributed to this development. The food processing industry is a major part of modern economy, and as such it is influential in political decisions (e.g., nutritional recommendations, agricultural subsidising). In any known profit-driven economy, health considerations are hardly a priority; effective production of cheap foods with a long shelf-life is more the trend. In general, whole, fresh foods have a relatively short shelf-life and are less profitable to produce and sell than are more processed foods. Thus, the consumer is left with the choice between more expensive, but nutritionally superior, whole, fresh foods, and cheap, usually nutritionally inferior, processed foods. Because processed foods are often cheaper, more convenient (in both purchasing, storage, and preparation), and more available, the consumption of nutritionally inferior foods has been increasing throughout the world along with many nutrition-related health complications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13115986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13115986", "title": "Nutritional rating systems", "text": "Nutritional rating systems\n\nNutritional rating systems are methods of ranking or rating food products or food categories to communicate the nutritional value of food in a simplified manner to a target audience. Rating systems are developed by governments, nonprofit organizations, or private institutions and companies.\n\nThe methods may use point systems to rank or rate foods for general nutritional value or they may rate specific food attributes such as cholesterol content. Graphics or other symbols may be used to communicate the ratings to the target audience.\n\nNutritional rating systems differ from nutritional labeling in that they attempt to simplify food choices, rather than listing specific amounts of nutrients or ingredients. Dietary guidelines are similar to nutritional rating systems in that they attempt to simplify the communication of nutritional information, however, they do not rate individual food products.\n\nGlycemic index is a ranking of how quickly food is metabolized into glucose when digested. It compares available carbohydrates gram for gram in individual foods, providing a numerical, evidence-based index of postprandial (post-meal) glycemia. The concept was invented by Dr. David J. Jenkins and colleagues in 1981 at the University of Toronto.\n\nThe glycemic load (GL) of food is a number that estimates how much the food will raise a person's blood glucose level after eating it.\n\nGuiding Stars is patented food rating system that rates food based on nutrient density using a scientific algorithm. Foods are credited for vitamins, minerals, dietary fibre, whole grains, and Omega-3 fatty acids, and debited for saturated fats, trans fats, added sodium (salt) and added sugar. Rated foods are marked with tags indicating one, two or three stars. The program first launched a Hannaford Supermarkets in 2006, and is currently found in about 1,900 supermarkets in the US and Canada. Guiding Stars has also expanded into public schools, colleges and hospitals.\n\nThe evidence-based proprietary algorithm is based on the dietary guidelines and recommendations of regulatory and health organizations including the US Food and Drug Administration, the US Department of Agriculture, and the World Health Organization. It was developed by a scientific advisory panel composed of experts in nutrition and health from Dartmouth College, Harvard University, Tufts University, University of North Carolina and other colleges.\n\nNutripoints is a system for rating foods on a numerical scale for their overall nutritional value. The method is based on an analysis of 26 positive (such as vitamins, minerals, protein, fiber) and negative factors (such as cholesterol, saturated fat, sugar, sodium) compared to the calories in the food. The overall Nutripoint score of the food is the result. The higher the value, the more nutrition per calorie (nutrient density) and the least negative factors in the food. Thus, the higher the Nutripoint score, the better the food for overall health. The system rates 3600+ foods including basic foods like apples and oranges, fast-foods, and brand-name foods.\n\nNutripoints was developed by Dr. Roy E. Vartabedian (a Doctor of Public Health) in the 1980s and was released to the general public in 1990 with his book, \"Nutripoints,\" published in 13 countries and 10 languages worldwide. The food rating system is part of an overall program designed to help people measure, balance, and upgrade their diet's nutritional quality for overall health improvement and well-being.\n\nThe Nutrition iQ program is a joint venture of the Joslin Clinic and multi-banner supermarket operator Supervalu. The labeling system consists of color-coded tags denoting a food product's superior status with respect to attributes such as vitamin and mineral content, fiber content, 100% juice content, Omega-3 or low saturated fat content, whole grain content, calcium content, protein content, low or reduced sodium content and low or reduced caloric content. The first phase of the program launched in 2009 covering center store food products, with coverage of fresh food departments rolling out in 2011.\n\nWeight Watchers developed the POINTS Food System for use with their Flex Plan. Healthy weight control is the primary objective of the system. The system is designed to allow customers to eat any food while tracking the number of points for each food consumed. Members try to keep to their POINTS Target, a number of points for a given time frame. The daily POINTS Target is personalized based on members' height, weight and other factors, such as gender. A weekly allowance for points is also established to provide for special occasions, mistakes, etc.\n\nDeveloped by Adam Drewnowski, University of Washington, NNR \"is based on mean percentage daily values (DVs) for 14 nutrients in 2000 kcal food, can be used to assign nutrient density values to foods within and across food groups. Use of the NNR score allows consumers to identify and select nutrient-dense foods while permitting some flexibility where the discretionary calories are concerned.\"\n\nDeveloped by ReViVer, a nutritionally-oriented restaurant in New York City, the ReViVer Score expresses the nutrient density of menu items from a variety of fast food and casual restaurants, based on the amount of 10 nutrients (Vitamins A, C, and E, folate, calcium, magnesium, potassium, iron, fiber, and omega-3 fats) per calorie. A score of 100 indicates that the meal provides at least 100% of the recommended daily intake for all ten nutrients, proportionate to the energy (calorie) content of the meal. The score allows consumers to compare the nutritional quality of various restaurant offerings with similar calorie content.\n\nDeveloped by Efficiency Is Everything, a Data Science website. This expresses the amount of micronutrients in produce per the caloric value based on 40+ vitamins and minerals. Based off a sum of each nutrient vs that nutrients maximum value per calorie, Spinach, Parsely, Romaine Lettuce, and turnip greens top the list. This allows consumers to compare the nutritional quality of various produce.\n\nLaunched late in 2009, the Smart Choices Program (SCP) was a rating system developed by a coalition of companies from the food industry. The criteria for rating food products used 18 different attributes, however, the system had varying levels of acceptability based on 16 types of food which allowed for wide discretion in the selection of foods to include in the program. The program was discontinued in October 2009 after sharp criticism for including products such as \"Froot Loops\", \"Lucky Charms\" and \"Frosted Flakes\" as Smart Choices. As a consequence of the backlash from the program, General Mills announced on December 10, 2009 that it would reduce the amount of sugar in many of its cereal brands.\n\nOn August 19, 2009, the FDA wrote a letter to SCP manager, saying: \"FDA and FSIS would be concerned if any FOP labeling systems used criteria that were not stringent enough to protect consumers against misleading claims; were inconsistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans; or had the effect of encouraging consumers to choose highly processed foods and refined grains instead of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.\" SCP was suspended in 2009 after the FDA's announcement that they will be addressing both on front-of- package and on-shelf systems. SCP Chair Mike Hughes said: \"It is more appropriate to postpone active operations and channel our information and learnings to the agency to support their initiative.\"\n\nSmart Choices Program \"was developed by a coalition of scientists and nutrition educators, experts with experience with dietary guidelines, public health organizations, and food manufacturers in response to consumer confusion over multiple front-of-the-package systems based on different criteria. Representatives from different government organizations acted as observers. The process of developing the program was facilitated by the nonprofit Keystone Center, an organization that develops consensus solutions to complex health and social policy changes. The nutrition criteria for receiving the SCP icon are specific for product category by indicating \"smarter\" products within that category. A calorie indicator noting calories per serving and servings per package accompanies the SCP icon to remind consumers that calories do count, even for smarter food choices. For a product to qualify, it first has to be below the threshold for \"nutrients to limit\" and then (in most cases) it must be above the threshold for one or more nutrients or food groups to encourage. The criteria are based on the 2005 Dietary Guidelines and other consensus science and are transparent and available on the SCP website.\"\n"}
{"id": "55052130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55052130", "title": "Permanent Representative of Moldova to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Moldova to the United Nations\n\nThis is a list of the Permanent Representatives of Moldova to the United Nations. Permanent Representative is a head of the permanent mission of Moldova to the United Nations. The current office holder is Victor Moraru, since July 5, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326018", "title": "Portman Group", "text": "Portman Group\n\nThe Portman Group is a trade group composed of alcoholic beverage producers and brewers in the UK.\n\nIt was set up in 1989 as part of a campaign to raise awareness of alcohol-related issues, and its members account for the majority of alcohol products sold in the UK. It takes its name from the Portman Square, London, head office of Guinness, one of its co-founders.\n\nThe Portman Group established the Drinkaware website in 2004 and went on to establish the Drinkaware Trust in 2006. The Drinkaware Trust is now an independent trust which runs all alcohol education campaigns, that had been previously the responsibility of the Portman Group.\n\nThere are four stated main aims of group:\n\nThe Portman Group operates a \"Code of Practice on the Naming, Packaging and Promotion of Alcoholic Drinks\" which was first introduced in 1996. The code, which is supported throughout the industry, seeks to ensure that drinks are marketed in a socially responsible way and to an adult audience only.\nThe code applies to all pre-packaged alcoholic drinks and covers the drink's naming, packaging, point-of-sale advertising, brand websites, sponsorship, branded merchandise, advertorials, press releases and sampling. \nThe code has an open and accessible complaints system. Complaints under the Code are ruled on by an independent complaints panel.\n\n\n\nThere have been several full campaigns run by the group. These include:\n\nThese campaigns have been strongly criticised by, amongst others, Professor Ian Gilmore of Royal College of Physicians and Professor Martin Plant of the University of the West of England, both noted alcohol harm experts, as not only ineffective but even favourable to the alcohol industry.\n\nPublic Health England was attacked by Martin McKee and others for giving unwarranted credibility to the drinks industry by involving Drinkaware in their Drink Free Days campaign in 2018. Professor Ian Gilmore resigned from his position with the agency when they refused to break the connection.\n\n"}
{"id": "6928255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6928255", "title": "Raksi", "text": "Raksi\n\nRaksi (Limbu:Sijongwaa aara) () or Rakshi is a traditional distilled alcoholic beverage in Nepal, India (Darjeeling, Sikkim) and Tibet. It is often made at home. \n\nIt is also the traditional beverage of newari people and of course mongol people. The Limbus especially, drink an enormous amount of Tongba and raksi served with pieces of Pork, Water buffalo or Goat meat Sekuwa.\nRaksi is usually made from kodo millet (kodo) or rice; different grains produce different flavors. It is a strong drink, clear like vodka or gin, tasting somewhat like Japanese sake.\n\nIn the CNN's list of World's 50 most delicious drinks, it was ranked 41st and was described as \"Made from millet or rice, Raksi is strong on the nose and sends a burning sensation straight down your throat that resolves itself into a surprisingly smooth, velvety sensation. Nepalese drink this home brew to celebrate festivals, though some think that the prized drink itself is the reason to celebrate.\"\n\nBecause of its popularity, various temperance movements exist in Nepal, including various women's groups. Raksi, however, remains an important requirement of various religious rituals and social events, due in part perhaps to its antiseptic properties.\n\nRaksi is often served in a bhatti glass and during special occasions, the drink is poured from a great height via a pitcher with a small spout, making an entertaining spectacle.\n\nRaksi is produced, sold and mostly consumed at rustic distilleries scattered around the countryside. Usually it is not aged before consumption. A large amount of wood is used in the distillation process.\n\n"}
{"id": "9903822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9903822", "title": "Safe Care Campaign", "text": "Safe Care Campaign\n\nThe Safe Care Campaign is an Atlanta, Georgia (United States) based corporation seeking to help eradicate hospital acquired infections. Its goal is to instigate a national change in ideology and practices within the health care environment in regard to hand hygiene. The organization compiles, develops, distributes and promotes educational resource material and targeted media campaigns to inform and assist patients and medical providers.\n\nThe campaign partners with other like-minded organizations and individuals to promote its patient safety efforts and has been active in efforts against so-called 'Superbugs' which are resistant to antibiotics.\n\nSafe Care Campaign was founded by Victoria and Armando Nahum after three members of their family acquired nosocomial infections in hospitals in three different states in the timespan of a year, ultimately resulting in the death of their son, Joshua.\n\n"}
{"id": "24598699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24598699", "title": "Sexual maturation disorder", "text": "Sexual maturation disorder\n\nSexual maturation disorder is a disorder of anxiety or depression related to an uncertainty about one's gender identity or sexual orientation. The World Health Organization (WHO) lists sexual maturation disorder in the ICD-10, under \"Psychological and behavioural disorders associated with sexual development and orientation\".\n\nSexual orientation, by itself, is not a disorder and is not classified under this heading. It differs from ego-dystonic sexual orientation where the sexual orientation or gender identity is repressed or denied.\n\nPuberty usually occurs from the ages of 10 to 16 years of age and varies between boys and girls with girls normally starting earlier than boys (Shiel, Stoppler 2012). During the time of puberty is when sexual maturation starts to occur. Numerous physical changes happen during the period of puberty. Girls start to develop breasts, have growth of pubic hair and eventually begin having menstrual cycles. Boys have an enlargement of testicles and penis, growth of pubic hair, deepened voices and muscular development. Along with physical changes during puberty there are many mental changes happening. During the adolescence stage of life, boys and girls start developing thoughts related to sexual identity and start to explore and experiment with sexual behaviors. This stage of life is when sexual maturation starts to develop and one’s gender identity and sexual orientation is being developed. This is a timeframe that can possibly become confusing for the youth going through this stage of adolescence. Feelings of frustration, anxiety or depression may occur. This could be the first signs of disorder during sexual maturation.\nSexual maturity is a natural progression during the pubertal stages of adolescence. It is the timeframe where youth explore and experience sexual thoughts, situations and behaviors which ultimately lead to the identification of their gender and sexual orientation. During this timeframe abnormal feelings and thoughts can affect the progression of maturity. These abnormal occurrences would be identified as sexual maturation disorder.\n\nGender identity on the surface would appear easily explained. Most of society is born with either male or female genitalia which make it easy to identify a person as male or female physically. Where confusion comes into play is when a person has the genitalia of either a male or female, but emotionally and mentally feel that they are of the opposite gender. “A child whose biological sex is that of a typical female can have a gender identity and role of a boy”. This can create stressful situations for those who are experiencing these feelings. Society refers to someone who experiences this internal contradiction as a transgender.\n“Gender identity disorders can manifest themselves in varying degrees of severity from early childhood onward” (Korte, 2008). Children and adolescents who develop this often show behavioral characteristics attributed to the opposite sex, and in some cases claim to belong to that gender. Each person with gender identity disorder is different, and it has various levels of severity. Some can exhibit little gender identity confusion, while others’ behaviors can be more obvious and apparent. They may prefer to associate with peers of the opposite sex, can cross-dress, and may prefer games and activities that are typically accredited to the opposite sex.\n“Transgender is the umbrella term for the feeling that one’s interior, mind/body experience of gender does not readily conform to the cultural assumptions assigned to their biological sex.” (McKenzie 2010) During the period of sexual maturation, a person who experiences questionable feelings dealing with their gender identity may find it hard to mature at the same rate of another who adheres to the acceptable “societal view” of gender identity. These questionable feelings could be viewed as abnormal and/or signs of disorder related to sexual maturation. A person dealing with gender identity confusion may or may not have confused emotions about sexual orientation.\nSexual orientation is normally developed after a person has an understanding of their gendered self. (McKenzie 2010) It is described as “an erotic inclination toward people of one or more genders, most often described as sexual or erotic attractions” (Ream, Savin-Williams). A person can experience abnormal feelings with both sexual orientation and gender identity or only one of the two. Sexual maturity can be stunted if gender identity is not fully recognized prior to developing one’s sexual orientation. It is possible for someone to have abnormal gender identity, but have normal sexual orientation based on society’s view of what is normal. This means that a biological male who is experiencing gender identity issues (feels like a female internally) can still be attracted to a female, which would be considered normal sexual orientation for a male. If that same male was attracted to a male, he would be considered abnormal with both his gender identity and sexual orientation. This can be applied to either gender or their sexual orientation. Sexual maturity can be affected by both gender identity and sexual orientation and can ultimately lead to disorder causing heightened anxiety or depression.\n\nAs the disorder progresses in life, it can increase in severity, and cause other behaviors or actions in late adolescence and adulthood. “A strong and persistent cross-gender identification in adolescents and adults [can cause a] disturbance manifested by symptoms such as a stated desire to be the other sex, frequent passing as the other sex, desire to live or be treated as the other sex, or the conviction that he or she has the typical feelings and reactions of the other sex” (APA, 2000). This can cause severe conflict for the individual living in a society which endorses and enforces adherence to strict gender roles. In a more persistent disassociation with one’s own body or gender, someone can go to more extreme lengths to feel as though they are fulfilled or satisfied with themselves. This can lead these individuals to engage in behavior that displaces their emotions. These individuals may also seek to undergo sex reassignment surgery. “Persistent discomfort with his or her sex or sense of inappropriateness in the gender role of that sex in adolescents and adults [can cause a] disturbance manifested by symptoms such as preoccupation with getting rid of primary and secondary sex characteristics (e.g., request for hormones, surgery, or other procedures to physically alter sexual characteristics to simulate the other sex) or belief that he or she was born the wrong sex” (APA, 2000).\n\n"}
{"id": "10625886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10625886", "title": "St. Mary Medical Center (Long Beach)", "text": "St. Mary Medical Center (Long Beach)\n\nSt. Mary Medical Center (SMMC) is a hospital in Long Beach, California, US. It is currently operated by Dignity Health. SMMC has all private acute care rooms for patients.\n\nIn December 1983, the emergency department at SMMC was designated as a level I trauma center for adults. This was changed to level II in 1992. SMMC has partnered with California State University, Long Beach to provide the only mental health trauma recovery center in Southern California. The hospital also has a heart center, orthopedic institute, cancer center and pediatrics and maternity services.\n\nSMMC provides many services such as:\n\n\nIn 1923, the Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word answered the call from Rev. J.M. Hegarty, pastor at St. Anthony’s, to care for the sick and poor in Long Beach, by purchasing what is now St. Mary Medical Center from Dr. T.O. Boyd. \n\nThe building was damaged so significantly in the 1933 Long Beach earthquake that the entire building had to be razed and a new, 100-bed facility built on the site. The new hospital opened in 1937 and was financed by a Public Works Administration loan. It was designed by architect I.E. Loveless in the Art Deco style.\n\nOver the years the hospital has been a pioneering institution in many areas including cardiology, radiology, cancer care, kidney transplantation, trauma services and rehabilitation. The mission of the hospital is no different from what it was 87 years ago when the Sisters of Charity first came to Long Beach. St. Mary is no longer a small 70-bed hospital with a handful of doctors and nurses. Today, St. Mary Medical Center is a 389 bed, non-profit medical center offering award winning, quality medical services. With its 1,462 staff, over 500 physicians and commitment to the Long Beach area.\n\nCatholic Healthcare West (now Dignity Health) acquired St. Mary Medical Center from the Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "244338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244338", "title": "T-1000", "text": "T-1000\n\nThe T-1000, also known as a Prototype Series 1000 Terminator, is a fictional character in the Terminator franchise. A shapeshifting android assassin, the T-1000 is the main antagonist of \"\", as well as a minor antagonist in \"Terminator Genisys\" and a theme park attraction in \"\". A similar Terminator, referred to as a T-1001 appears in the Fox television series, \"\".\n\nCreated by the franchise's main antagonist, Skynet, a machine artificial intelligence that directs its robotic creations against the Human Resistance in an all-out war, the T-1000 is described in \"Terminator 2\" as being composed of liquid metal, or a mimetic polyalloy (nanorobotics) that it can manipulate to assume various forms. Aside from being able to camouflage itself by assuming the appearance of a nondescript object or take on the likeness of other humans that it terminates in pursuit of its goals, the T-1000's shapeshifting abilities enable it to form its hands into stabbing blades, slip through physical openings by oozing its liquid form, and instantly reform itself from any physical damage. It is further explained in the prologue of the film's novelization, that the T-1000 was created through nanotechnology, and is a 'Nanomorph', able to scan the molecular structure of whatever it is touching and visually mimic it.\n\nIn \"Terminator 2\", the T-1000's default form is portrayed by Robert Patrick, and in \"Terminator Genisys\", by Lee Byung-hun, while other actors portray the T-1000 in the disguise of specific characters. In \"Terminator 2\" and \"Terminator 2: 3-D Battle Across Time\", the T-1000 is presented as a technological leap over the \"800 Series\" Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger). Described by Allmovie as \"one of the most memorable roles in one of the most memorable films of the decade\", Patrick's portrayal of the T-1000 earned him nominations for Best Villain and Best Supporting Actor at the 1992 MTV and Saturn Awards and was ranked #39 in the Online Film Critics Society's \"Top 100 Villains of All Time\" in 2002.\n\nTeaser trailers for \"Terminator 2\" deliberately withheld the notion that the T-1000 character was the villain. A tagline for the film was \"This time there are \"two\". Terminator 2.\" Prior to the film's release, Robert Patrick was promoted as portraying \"Austin\", the name on the T-1000's police uniform's ID tag.\n\nWriter/director James Cameron stated that his original intention for the sequel was that both Terminators sent to the past would be T-800s like the one played by Arnold Schwarzenegger, with one being stripped down to a metal endoskeleton like the one from the original film. Once Cameron actually started working on the script, in 1990, he figured a better way was to turn the evil Terminator into a more advanced model.\n\nCameron's original pick to play the T-1000 was rock musician Billy Idol, and storyboards had the robot resembling him, but a serious motorcycle accident prevented Idol from accepting the role. Then, he thought of casting actor Michael Biehn, who played Kyle Reese in \"The Terminator\", in the role with the explanation that Skynet managed to acquire Reese's DNA and use it for a new Terminator. Cameron ultimately dropped this idea after deciding the audience would find it too confusing: eventually casting came down to Robert Patrick, as a deliberate contrast to the original Terminator - Cameron stated \"I wanted to find someone who would be a good contrast to Arnold. If the 800 series is a kind of human Panzer tank, then the 1000 series had to be a Porsche.\" For a more machine-like performance, Patrick had to learn how to both fire a pistol without flinching (or blinking) and run effortlessly without heavy breathing or signs of exhaustion.\n\nThe development of computer-generated imagery (CGI) by Industrial Light & Magic to manipulate, re-create, and \"morph\" the image of an actor was used in the creation of the T-1000 character in the film. The computer graphics composed 6 of the 15 minutes that the T-1000 displays its morphing and healing abilities. The other 9 were achieved in camera with the use of advanced animatronic puppets and prosthetic effects created by Stan Winston and his team, who were also responsible for the metal skeleton effects of the T-800. The visual effects used in \"Terminator 2\" to create the T-1000 won the Academy Award for Visual Effects.\n\nEntity FX, Inc. is responsible for the visual effects of the T-1001 on \"Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles\", along with the digital animation of endoskeletons, Hunter-Killers, and the future war sequences on the second season of the show. The company also contributed the digital imagery of James Cameron's \"True Lies\" and \"Titanic\".\n\nIn \"Terminator Genisys\", the effects of the T-1000 were made by British effects company Double Negative, also responsible for the T-3000 and T-5000 terminators. The animation was mostly similar to how it was done in \"Terminator 2\", only with more advanced fluid simulations. To properly depict the liquid metal being dissolved by acid, Double Negative's artists studied acid burning through aluminum, and had its final distorted forms inspired by \"The Thing\".\n\nIn the \"Terminator 2\" storyline, the T-1000 is made of liquid metal. The T-800 explains that the T-1000 is a more advanced Terminator, composed entirely of a \"mimetic polyalloy\", rendering it capable of rapid shape shifting, near-perfect mimicry and rapid recovery from damage. Furthermore, it can use its ability to quickly liquify and assume forms in innovative and surprising ways, including fitting through narrow openings, morphing its arms into solid metal tools or bladed weapons, walking through prison bars, flattening itself and imitating the pattern and texture of the ground to hide or ambush targets.\n\nThe T-1000 also has the ability to extrude small, simple items from itself. For example, it creates a motorcycle helmet and sunglasses when these items were necessary for its disguise (the motorcycle cop disguise is used for the T-1000 action figure). The T-1000 can also change its surface color and texture to convincingly simulate flesh, clothing, and other nonmetallic materials. It is capable of accurately mimicking voices as well, including the ability to extrapolate a relatively small voice sample to generate a wider array of words or inflections as required. However, its morphing abilities are limited by complexity, mass, and volume: it cannot transform into complex machines with mechanical moving parts or chemical fuels (like guns or bombs), limiting it to stabbing weapons unless it acquires external hardware, and its volume prevents it from taking the form of a small object like a pack of cigarettes, although it is capable of impersonating larger people (Most likely by simply making its interior somewhat hollow rather than remaining a solid mass).\n\nLike all Terminators, the T-1000 possesses superhuman strength. While relatively equal in strength to the T-800, thanks to its morphing abilities and immunity to mechanical damage, it is shown to be capable of overpowering the T-800 in hand-to-hand combat, despite its more slender frame and lack of mass compared to its predecessor. It can also run fast enough to catch up to a police car accelerating away from it, although at times it can acquire and drive vehicles if it requires increased speed. Since the slender, smaller frame is its default appearance, when assuming a person that is physically taller and bulkier than it, the T-1000's density decreases and becomes slightly hollow, also causing it to lose the center of gravity, forcing it to take harder steps and slower pace to make an appearance of a bulkier person.\n\nThe T-1000 is effectively impervious to physical injury and any damage to its body will only momentarily stagger it for as long as it takes to repair any wound or deformation. Bullet wounds are a minor inconvenience; the T-1000 can shrug off and repair injuries from small arms fire but a high-kinetic impacts from shotgun blasts or a large explosion will knock it out for a few moments before it can recover. If a part of its body is detached, it will liquefy and flow back into the T-1000's body, with its detached nano parts being able to track the core of the body from a far range, up to 9 miles(14.5 km). It is explained in the prologue to the novel adaptation of the film, that the T-1000 is able to completely reform and reshape itself at will, due to its \"cells\" having been programmed by Skynet with on-board nanotechnology. This technology can be programmed with commands from Skynet, and can help the T-1000 scan the cellular makeup of whatever it is touching (including the DNA of living animals), and can magnetically attract broken off pieces of itself back to the main body.\n\nThe T-1000's weaknesses are extreme temperatures and it's overall lack of knowledge concerning other Terminators. When it was frozen solid from a coating of liquid nitrogen, it could not move; it was then shot by the Terminator and split into several pieces. However, the heat from a nearby crucible thawed out the individual pieces and they liquefied and flowed back together, reforming the T-1000's body. After the Terminator shot it with a grenade launcher, it was so distorted and off balance from the gap in its torso that it slipped and fell into a molten steel vat and after it shapeshifted uncontrollably into its previous human disguises/victims and it turned itself inside-out to try to shield itself from the molten steel. It was permanently destroyed when the searing heat disassembled its nanotechnological \"cells\" on a microscopic level. The T1000 is also not specifically designed to encounter other Terminators and has little knowledge of their diagnostics. This allows the T-800 to take it by surprise. The T1000 had previously shut the T-800 down, but did not know of the older model's emergency reboot power mode. It is stated in Terminator 3, the T-X was designed with the knowledge necessary to destroy other Terminators and thus diagnostic files of other Terminators was in its internal database. \n\nThe Special Edition DVD release of \"T:2\" contains additional scenes in the steel foundry showing that the damaging effects of being frozen, shattered and thawed caused the T-1000 to glitch, causing it to uncontrollably morph and match its surface with objects it touches against the T-1000's will (such as its hand sticking to, and taking on the metallic texture and yellow/black caution striping of a guardrail). In the Special Edition, this glitch is what enabled John Connor to see through its ruse when it impersonates his mother, as its feet took on the color and texture of the grated metal floor on which it stood. The DVD also contains a Deleted Scene where the T-1000 uses its hands to \"scan\" John Connor's bedroom for genetic and psychological information, including DNA, an ability it may have in common with the T-X. As stated above, the film's novelization explained this feature by expanding on the origins of the T-1000 in its prologue, where it is explained that the T-1000 is controlled through nanotechnology, that allows it to \"scan\" the basic molecular structure of objects, both living and inanimate, it is in contact with.\n\nThe T-1000 series are apparently capable of espionage and detective skills, as they often attempt to accomplish their goals by subterfuge and deception instead of brute force and extreme violence as the original T-800 resorted to. For example, in \"Terminator 2,\" it disguises itself as a police officer to gain trust, access information, and provide a benign, friendly appearance. It also imitates family members of its human target to gain that person's confidence. In fact, the T-1000 is able to pass as human, possessing a larger repertoire of emotional expression and interpersonal skills than earlier Terminator models. Despite the fact that the original T-800 also had some non-violent interactions and used a phone book to track Sarah Connor, T-1000 used a variety of deceptions and was much more human-like.\n\nIt is also capable of exploiting the emotions of its targets, as in the steel foundry when it tortured Sarah Connor to call out for her son, anticipating that she would respond accordingly. A T-1000 demonstrates annoyance when dealing with the T-800, in \"T:2\" and another T-1000 demonstrates annoyance with Kyle Reese, in \"Terminator: Genisys\", and tilts its head in salute to Sarah Connor when she devised a method to distinguish it from the person it mimics. Additionally, it is able to express fear and pain, demonstrated when the T-1000 gives a brief look of shock after the T-800 shoots a grenade into its stomach, and when it writhes in agony after falling into a vat of molten metal. The same is shown in \"Genisys\", when the Guardian holds it under an hydrochloric acid shower and it frantically struggles to get free before it is destroyed.\n\nIn \"Genisys\", it is also shown that the T-1000 has the ability to repair damaged machines and use its own body as independent weapons and gadgets, such as a spear or a tracking device. It severs its own arm and hurls it as a javelin to impale the Guardian to a wall, it reactivates a broken T-101 by infusing the 101 with some polyalloy and it latches a piece of itself onto a lock in order to track the Guardian's truck.\n\nIn \"\", the T-1000 (Patrick) is sent by Skynet back in time to kill a young John Connor (Edward Furlong), the future leader of the Human Resistance against Skynet. The T-1000 ambushes a Los Angeles Police Department police officer, Austin, on arrival and takes on his identity, tracking down John Connor through the police cruiser's on-board computer and eventually confronting him in a shopping mall, where it meets a T-800 Model 101 similar to the one from the first \"Terminator\" film. It is at this point in the film where it is revealed that the T-800 (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is now the protector, and \"Austin\" is in fact a new, advanced prototype T-1000 sent to assassinate John. Following a brief scuffle and a lengthy car chase, the T-800 and John escape from the T-1000. The T-1000 is thwarted again at a psychiatric institution, where John and the T-800 rescue John's mother, Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton), and again escape from him.\n\nThe T-1000 uses its morphing capabilities to track down John Connor, eliminating any who stand in its way, including John's foster parents (Jenette Goldstein and Xander Berkeley). After tracking the Connors and the T-800 to Cyberdyne Systems Corporation headquarters, it gives chase and crashes a truck carrying liquid nitrogen into a steel mill.\n\nThe T-1000 is frozen solid by leaking liquid nitrogen, allowing the T-800 to shatter it with a single pistol round. After the T-1000 reforms (but its shapeshifting capability malfunctions) the T-800 engages it in hand-to-hand combat, to buy time for Sarah and John, but is defeated and shut down in the process. The T-1000 then continues the hunt for John, unaware that the T-800 has rerouted power and reactivated itself.\n\nThe T-1000 copies John's mother's form and confronts John but is stopped by John's real mother. It survives Sarah's shotgun blasts but is finally done in by the T-800 who fires his last grenade, which detonates inside the T-1000. While attempting to reform, it stumbles and falls backwards into a vat of molten steel. Unable to stand the high temperature it is melted and consumed.\n\nDespite failing to eliminate John Connor (Nick Stahl), it is later revealed in \"\" that the T-1000 \"inadvertently interfered\" with the development of his relationships with Kate Brewster (Claire Danes), with whom he attended junior high school, and her father, Robert (David Andrews), who was the primary creator of Skynet by using Cyberdyne Systems' research.\n\nThe T-1000's successor is the T-X, designed to not only terminate humans but also rogue Terminators reprogrammed by the Resistance, an \"anti-terminator terminator\" as stated by John Connor. The T-X is a composite of the T-800 and T-1000, combining the former's solid endoskeleton covered with the latter's liquid metal \"mimetic polyalloy\", allowing it to take the shape of any humanoid it touches. Because it is only coated in this material, it is possible to remove it from the endoskeleton using immensely strong magnetic force, such as that from a cyclic particle accelerator. Having a solid endoskeleton did solve some of the T-1000's problems, namely being deformed by temperature extremes and explosives while also lacking built-in ranged weaponry. However, the endoskeleton makes the T-X less flexible than its T-1000 predecessor, in that the T-X does not have the ability to liquefy and assume forms in innovative and surprising ways, including fitting through narrow openings, morphing its arms into solid metal tools or bladed weapons, walking through prison bars and narrow openings, or flattening itself.\n\nSouth Korean actor Lee Byung-hun portrays a T-1000 in \"Terminator Genisys\". In the film, it is revealed that a T-1000 was sent back to terminate Sarah Connor (portrayed by Willa Taylor as a child) at Big Bear Lake in 1973. It kills her parents but she escaped, and is subsequently found by a reprogrammed T-800 (Brett Azar with Schwarzenegger's digitally de-aged head superimposed on top), sent by an unknown party to be her guardian. The subsequent arrivals of the two androids effectively alters the course of Sarah's life. Eleven years later, in the form of an Asian American LAPD police officer, the T-1000 intercepts Kyle Reese (Jai Courtney) after Kyle arrives from 2029. As Kyle has no experience battling a T-1000, he is unable to defeat it and is only saved by the arrival of Sarah Connor (Emilia Clarke) and the Guardian (Schwarzenegger). By latching a piece of itself onto the Guardian's truck, the T-1000 tails the three to the Guardian's warehouse base and attacks them again. It uses pieces of itself to pin the Guardian to a wall and to reactivate Skynet's T-800 to chase Kyle Reese while pursuing Sarah. It masquerades as Reese in an attempt to fool Sarah, but Sarah sees through the ruse and lures the T-1000 into a shower of hydrochloric acid, severely destabilizing its molecular structure and weakening it. Despite this, it tries to kill Sarah, but the Guardian grabs it and holds it under the acid shower until it disintegrates completely, destroying it.\n\nIn the film's climactic battle, the damaged Guardian is thrown into a vat of liquid metal to be used for the creation of T-1000s, which restores it and gives it shapeshifting abilities similar to a T-1000.\n\nMcG, the director of \"Terminator Salvation\", has previously mentioned that the T-1000 would be reintroduced in what was to be his concept of the fifth film: \"I like the idea and the perspective for the next picture that you meet Robert Patrick the way he looks today, and he's a scientist that's working on, you know, improving cell replication so we can stay healthier and we can cure diabetes and do all these things that sound like good ideas, and to once again live as idealized expressions as ourselves.\" He also said the origin story they had in mind for the T-1000 would satirize the world's \"obsession\" with youth and aging. With the rebooting of the franchise with \"Terminator Genisys\", this concept has since been scrapped.\n\n\n\nRobert Patrick reprised his role as the T-1000 in a Universal Studios Theme Park movie ride. In this short film, The Terminator (Schwarzenegger) takes John Connor (Furlong) to the year 2029 to aid him in destroying Skynet once and for all. On their way, the T-1000 chases after John and the Terminator while they are on a motorcycle. But it is once again defeated when The Terminator shoots at it with a shotgun.\n\nA T-1001 Terminator, a second liquid metal prototype, is introduced in the 2008 television series, \"\" at the start of the show's second season (though sometimes misidentified as a T-1000 by reviewers). It masquerades as Catherine Weaver (Shirley Manson), the co-founder and current CEO of ZeiraCorp. \"Weaver\" often has mixed results when socially interacting both with subordinates at ZeiraCorp and Weaver's daughter (portrayed by Mackenzie Smith), but was written with an improved ability to adapt to and sustain itself in changing situations more adeptly than prior Terminators. It was unable to make convincing smiles or relate to people, despite being more advanced than the T-1000, which seemed to be better at social interaction. However, the T-1001 was able to successfully lead a company and use literary allegories.\n\nThe T-1001's mission remains unclear throughout the television series, but diverts from the single-minded attempts to assassinate the Connors, as seen in the prior films. Through most of the TV series, the T-1001, as well as Sarah Connor and her allies, did not appear to be aware of each other's existence. As the head of ZeiraCorp, the T-1001 diverts that company's resources into developing an artificial intelligence, titled \"Project Babylon\", which appeared sufficient to combat Skynet's development. Catherine Weaver is first seen in the second season opener when she purchases the late Andy Goode's Turk computer system for $300,000 from an associate and then introduces this new computer system to her department heads to reveal her plans to create a new artificial intelligence computer system. Towards this end, Catherine Weaver recruits FBI Special Agent James Ellison to find and capture a Terminator in order to reverse engineer it using a variety of deceptions. Until the end of the series, Ellison is never aware of Weaver's true nature. Ellison delivers a T-888 Terminator's body to Weaver after it was critically damaged by Connor's Terminator bodyguard. The T-1001 advocates learning more about the 'robots' ironically in order to \"prevent\" Judgment Day. With Ellison's initial mission complete, it assigns him to act as tutor/mentor to the nascent AI now connected to the T-888's body, which Weaver nicknames \"John Henry\".\n\nJohn Henry quickly identifies Weaver as a machine, albeit different from itself, but obeys Weaver's instruction not to share that information with anyone, assuring him that everything done at ZeiraCorp is for John Henry's benefit. At one point, Weaver reveals a clue to the nature of its mission when it tells Ellison that Savannah's future safety is dependent upon John Henry, but that the reverse is not the case. This appears to be in contradiction to the assumption that Weaver was coordinating the efforts to develop Skynet to eradicate humanity.\n\nIn the television series, the true nature of the T-1001's entire mission is never revealed, and much of what Weaver does in furtherance of it seems contradictory. In one of the episodes that shifts between the present day and post-Judgment Day, it is learned that leader of the resistance, John Connor, asked a liquid metal Terminator to join him, and the Terminator refused. In the series finale, by way of introduction, the T-1001 asks (using the same phrase) the same of Connor (and his bodyguard Cameron, who was privy to the aforementioned events in the future) through Ellison, sent as intermediary.\n\nAlso in the season/series finale, when Sarah Connor and John Connor finally meet Catherine Weaver face-to-face at her office, Ellison, Sarah, and John all discover Weaver's true nature when she uses her Terminator liquid metal abilities to form a shield to protect them from a flying Kaliba Corp drone which crash-dives into the ZeiraCorp building. When Sarah Connor discovers that ZeiraCorp possesses Andy Goode's Turk, she assumes that Weaver is constructing Skynet but Weaver corrects her by stating that she is \"building something to fight it.\" Upon entering the basement, the four discover that John Henry has transported himself to the future with Cameron's chip, leaving Cameron's empty body. When Ellison and Sarah Connor decline to jump forward in time with Weaver and John Connor, Weaver instructs Ellison to pick up Savannah from gymnastics.\n\nWeaver then transports itself and John Connor to a post-Judgment Day future in which John Connor is not known to the human resistance. Though Connor and the T-1001 arrived naked, the T-1001 forms \"clothing\" a moment later. After briefly talking to John, the Terminator slips away when the human resistance encounters John, thus leaving its whereabouts unknown.\n\nIn the \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day – Nuclear Twilight\" comic published by Malibu Comics in 1996, an injured Tech-Com soldier named \"Griffith\" is abducted by a troop of T-800 Terminators and brought back to Skynet. He is drugged and, while in a delirious state (believing he has died and gone to Heaven), questioned by Skynet about Tech-Com's acquisition of a T-800 unit. After he has supplied all the information he is aware of, two T-1000 Terminators enter the room and assume his appearance before killing him. One is sent to infiltrate the human resistance, the other sent through time to kill John Connor as outlined in the \"Terminator 2\" movie. In the simultaneously published \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day – Cybernetic Dawn\", set just after the film, a female T-1000 and two T-800s come to the present to make sure the creation of Skynet happens as planned.\n\nIn the second crossover between Terminator and Robocop, the T-1000 plays a fairly significant role. It's the same model as from \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day\". His role is not changed, he still intends to kill John Connor, but this time he must confront Robocop as well to get to John Connor. Robocop manages to save John and Sarah because he came from the future to stop the downfall of humanity, which even with the resistance fighting back, the war was lost for humanity. Robocop shows no interest in keeping John and Sarah safe however, all he wants to do is prevent the future from happening. The T-1000 finds his targets on a naval base, set up by Robocop. He gets in, but the vessel they are on begins to sink, but even with some help from the re-activated T-800 unit, John Connor is dead and the vessel sinks to the bottom of the sea, with everyone on board possibly drowning in the fight. Even the two Terminators and Robocop who are destroyed by a chemical compound designed to destroy metals, which has seeped into the waters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34907549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34907549", "title": "Thomas Baffes", "text": "Thomas Baffes\n\nThomas G. Baffes (April 3, 1923 - June 15, 1997) was an American surgeon and attorney noted for developing a surgical procedure to repair a heart defect known as transposition of the great vessels, which often caused \"blue baby\" deaths.\n\nBaffes was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, to Greek immigrant parents, Gustave \"Gus\" Baffes (1893-) (English attribution for the Greek name Konstantinos) and Tina (née Bores) (1905-). They came from Tripoli, Greece. Thomas had one younger sister, Bessie and one younger brother, Christian. He received his M.D. from Tulane University Medical School.\n\nBaffes was chairman of the surgery department at Mt. Sinai Hospital Medical Center in Chicago. He was also a partner in a Chicago law firm, Pierce Daley Baffes and O'Sullivan, and taught classes at DePaul University Law School.\n"}
{"id": "5108068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108068", "title": "Varenicline", "text": "Varenicline\n\nVarenicline (trade name Chantix and Champix), is a prescription medication used to treat nicotine addiction. It reduces both craving for and decreases the pleasurable effects of cigarettes and other tobacco products.\n\nIt is a high-affinity partial agonist for the α4β2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype (nACH) that leads to the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens when activated, and therefore, has the capacity to reduce the feelings of craving and withdrawal caused by smoking cessation. In this respect it is similar to cytisine and different from the nicotinic antagonist bupropion and nicotine replacement therapies (NRTs) like nicotine patches and nicotine gum.\n\nVarenicline is used for smoking cessation. In a 2009 meta-analysis varenicline was found to be more effective than bupropion (odds ratio 1.40) and NRTs (odds ratio 1.56).\n\nA 2013 Cochrane overview and network meta-analysis concluded that varenicline is the most effective medication for tobacco cessation and that smokers were nearly three times more likely to quit on varenicline than with placebo treatment. Varenicline was more efficacious than bupropion or NRT and as effective as combination NRT for tobacco smoking cessation.\n\nThe United States' Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) has approved the use of varenicline for up to twelve weeks. If smoking cessation has been achieved it may be continued for another twelve weeks.\n\nVarenicline has not been tested in those under 18 years old or pregnant women and therefore is not recommended for use by these groups. Varenicline is considered a class C pregnancy drug, as animal studies have shown no increased risk of congenital anomalies, however, no data from human studies is available. An observational study is currently being conducted assessing for malformations related to varenicline exposure, but has no results yet. An alternate drug is preferred for smoking cessation during breastfeeding due to lack of information and based on the animal studies on nicotine.\n\nMild nausea is the most common side effect and is seen in approximately 30% of people taking varenicline though this rarely (<3%) results in discontinuation of the medication. Other less common side effects include headache, difficulty sleeping, and nightmares. Rare side effects reported by people taking varenicline compared to placebo include change in taste, vomiting, abdominal pain, flatulence, and constipation. It has been estimated that for every five subjects taking varenicline at maintenance doses, there will be an event of nausea, and for every 24 and 35 treated subjects, there will be an event of constipation and flatulence respectively. Gastrointestinal side-effects lead to discontinuation of the drug in 2% to 8% of people using varenicline. Incidence of nausea is dose-dependent: incidence of nausea was higher in people taking a larger dose (30%) versus placebo (10%) as compared to people taking a smaller dose (16%) versus placebo (11%).\n\nIn 2007, the US FDA had announced it had received post-marketing reports of thoughts of suicide and occasional suicidal behavior, erratic behavior, and drowsiness among people using varenicline for smoking cessation. In 2009, the US FDA required varenicline to carry a boxed warning that the drug should be stopped if any of these symptoms are experienced.\n\nA 2014 systematic review did not find evidence of an increased suicide risk. Other analyses have reached the same conclusion and found no increased risk of neuropsychiatric side effects with varenicline. No evidence for increased risks of cardiovascular events, depression, or self-harm with varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy has been found in one post-marketing surveillance study.\n\nIn 2016 the FDA removed the black box warning. People are still advised to stop the medication if they \"notice any side effects on mood, behavior, or thinking.\"\n\nIn June 2011, the US FDA issued a safety announcement that varenicline may be associated with \"a small, increased risk of certain cardiovascular adverse events in people who have cardiovascular disease.\"\n\nA prior 2011 review had found increased risk of cardiovascular events compared with placebo. Expert commentary in the same journal raised doubts about the methodology of the review, concerns which were echoed by the European Medicines Agency and subsequent reviews. Of specific concern were \"the low number of events seen, the types of events counted, the higher drop-out rate in people receiving placebo, the lack of information on the timing of events, and the exclusion of studies in which no-one had an event.\"\n\nIn contrast, multiple recent systematic reviews and meta-analyses have found no increase in overall or serious adverse cardiovascular events (including for individuals at risk of developing cardiovascular disease) associated with varenicline use.\n\nIt is recommended that people reduce the amount of alcohol they drink.\n\nVarenicline displays full agonism on αnicotinic acetylcholine receptors and is a partial agonist on the αβ, αβ, and αβ subtypes. In addition, it is a weak agonist on the αβ containing receptors.\n\nVarenicline's partial agonism on the αβ receptors rather than nicotine's full agonism produces less effect of dopamine release than nicotine's. This αβ competitive binding reduces the ability of nicotine to bind and stimulate the mesolimbic dopamine system - similar to the method of action of buprenorphine in the treatment of opioid addiction.\n\nMost of the active compound is excreted by the kidneys (92–93%). A small proportion is glucuronidated, oxidised, \"N\"-formylated or conjugated to a hexose. The elimination half-life is about 24 hours.\n\nUse of Cytisus plant as a smoking substitute during World War II led to use as a cessation aid in eastern Europe and extraction of cytisine. Cytisine analogs led to varenicline at Pfizer.\n\nVarenicline received a \"priority review\" by the US FDA in February 2006, shortening the usual 10-month review period to 6 months because of its demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials and perceived lack of safety issues. The agency's approval of the drug came on May 11, 2006. On August 1, 2006, varenicline was made available for sale in the United States and on September 29, 2006, was approved for sale in the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16642512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16642512", "title": "Šance Dam", "text": "Šance Dam\n\nŠance Dam () is a water reservoir and dam in the Moravian-Silesian Beskids mountain range, Moravian-Silesian Region, Czech Republic. The dam is built on upper course of the Ostravice River and has a surface of 3.37 km². It was constructed in 1964-1969 and began operating in 1974. Part of the village of Staré Hamry was demolished and subsequently flooded during the construction. The name of the dam comes from the hill that overlooks the dam.\n\nThe dam is used mainly to supply drinking water to nearby towns and villages and to subdue floods on the Ostravice River.\n"}
