{"id": "51133696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51133696", "title": "ACCC v Cabcharge Australia Ltd", "text": "ACCC v Cabcharge Australia Ltd\n\nACCC v Cabcharge Australia Ltd is a 2010 decision of the Federal Court of Australia brought by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) against Cabcharge Australia Ltd. In June 2009, the ACCC began proceedings in the Federal Court against Cabcharge alleging that Cabcharge had breached section 46 of the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act (TPA) by misusing its market power and entering into an agreement to substantially lessen competition. The action alleged predatory pricing by Cabcharge and centred on Cabcharge's conduct in refusing to deal with competing suppliers to allow Cabcharge payments to be processed through EFTPOS terminals provided by rival companies and supplying taxi meters and fare updates at below actual cost or at no cost.\n\nIn September 2010, to settle the action, Cabcharge admitted a number of contraventions of TPA and the Federal Court imposed a fine of $15 million ($14 million in civil penalties and $1 million in costs), the highest ever penalty imposed for misuse of market power. The judgement was delivered by Justice Raymond Finkelstein on 17 November 2010.\n\nCabcharge provides various products and services in Australia and overseas, predominantly to taxi drivers, owners and networks (the firms that provide booking and dispatch services to drivers and owners). The services that Cabcharge provide include non-cash payment processing systems for taxi fares, payment processing systems for taxis and provision of taxi meters. The company holds a dominant market position in these services across Australia as it supplies almost 97% of Australian taxis with its electronic payment system.\n\nThe ACCC began proceedings in June 2009 in the Federal Court against Cabcharge Australia Ltd. The ACCC action alleged that Cabcharge had breached section 46 of the Trade Practices Act (TPA) by misusing its market power and entering into an agreement to substantially lessen competition. The action alleged predatory pricing by Cabcharge and centred on Cabcharge's conduct in refusing to deal with competing suppliers to allow Cabcharge payments to be processed through EFTPOS terminals provided by rival companies and supplying taximeters and meter updates at below actual cost or at no cost.\nAt the relevant date, to breach Section 46 of the TPA, a corporation must have misused its substantial market power to:\nSection 46 of the TPA was amended numerous times since September 2007 to strengthen the ACCC's ability to successfully bring proceedings for alleged contraventions. For example, in September 2007, a sub-section 46(1AA) was introduced into the TPA to prohibit corporations with substantial market share from engaging in predatory pricing. Predatory pricing occurs when a company sets its prices below cost for a sustained period for one of the anti-competitive purposes referred to above. In November 2008, the TPA was amended again to make clear the circumstances when corporations had 'taken advantage' of their market power. This change sought to deal with the evidentiary difficulties the regulator encountered in establishing this element in earlier cases. Since January 2007, the courts have also been given power to impose a civil penalty for each act or omission contravening the TPA. Civil penalties can now be imposed up to the greater of $10 million, three times the value of the benefit obtained from the misconduct, or 10% of the annual Australian turnover of the company involved.\n\nTo settle the proceedings, Cabcharge admitted to three contraventions of the TPA. The company agreed to the issue by the court of declarations, compliance orders, civil penalties of $14 million and costs of $1 million.\n\nOn 24 September 2010, Justice Finkelstein approved the settlement of the action and declared that Cabcharge had breached the TPA by taking advantage of its substantial degree of power in the Australian markets for the supply of services to enable non-cash payments for taxi fares and charges by taxi passengers and non-cash instruments that could be used only for the payment of taxi fares and charges.\n\nIt was found that since 2005 Cabcharge had unreasonably refused to deal with a potential competitor (namely Travel Tab which had changed its name to Mpos in January 2007) in the payments and instruments markets by refusing to allow Travel Tab/MPos to process Cabcharge instruments (e.g., Cabcharge cards) on Mpos EFTPOS equipment. It was found that: \"With respect to both refusals, Cabcharge acknowledges that although there would have been time and costs involved in developing appropriate interfaces, there was no technical reason that would prevent any electronic taxi-specific payment product from being processed by any EFTPOS terminal as long as that taxi-specific instrument and the relevant EFTPOS terminals complied with all relevant banking/financial industry protocols, including security protocols.\"\n\nIt was found that: \"Cabcharge’s refusals were for the purpose of preventing Travel Tab/MPos from processing Cabcharge instruments electronically and resulted in Cabcharge’s payment processing system remaining the only system that processed Cabcharge’s instruments electronically.\"\n\nBetween September 2004 and October 2007 Cabcharge acquired taximeters at a cost of $250 per meter. Of these, Cabcharge supplied approximately 727 units free of charge and approximately 5613 units at an invoiced price of $100 (of which it did not obtain any payment for approximately 758 units). At the time its competitors sold meters for between $430–550 plus GST. Cabcharge installed 197 meters free of charge at an estimated cost of $120 to $160 per installation. From 9 November 2007, it sold meters at a retail price of $250.\n\nIn addition, Cabcharge supplied meter updates free to networks and operators, notwithstanding that it incurred costs of around $75,000 to supply these updates. At the time its competitors charged $70 to $110 plus GST per update. Cabcharge funded its losses from profits it made from its payment processing systems.\n\nIt was found that Cabcharge took advantage of the substantial degree of power it had in the payment processing market for the purposes of: (1) affecting the profitability of other suppliers of meters and updates; (2) ensuring that other suppliers of meters and updates could not match or be price competitive with Cabcharge; and (3) ensuring that alternative suppliers did not commence supplying electronic processing services.\n"}
{"id": "36494245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36494245", "title": "Alan Isaac", "text": "Alan Isaac\n\nAlan Raymond Isaac (born 20 January 1952) is a New Zealand businessman, cricket administrator and former player.\n\nBorn in Wellington on 20 January 1952, Isaac was educated at Onslow College and Victoria University of Wellington. He graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration from Victoria in 1974.\n\nA left-handed batsman, Isaac represented Wellington at age-group level, and captained the Wellington second team for three years. However, it has been as a cricket administrator that he has gained prominence. He became president of New Zealand Cricket in 2008, and succeeded Sharad Pawar, former president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, as president of the International Cricket Council in 2012.\n\nIsaac had a 35-year career with KPMG in New Zealand. with roles including managing partner, chairman and chief executive officer. He holds directorships with a range of companies, including Skellerup Holdings, Opus International Consultants, and Oceania Healthcare, and is a trustee of the New Zealand Community Trust and the New Zealand Red Cross Foundation.\n\nIn the 2013 New Year Honours, Isaac was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to cricket and business.\n\nIn 2015, Isaac received a distinguished alumni award from Victoria University of Wellington.\n"}
{"id": "1792744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792744", "title": "American Jobs", "text": "American Jobs\n\nAmerican Jobs is a 2004 independent film, documentary, written, produced and directed by Greg Spotts. The film is about the loss of American jobs to low-wage foreign competition, covering the phenomenon of outsourcing in manufacturing and high-paying white-collar jobs. The filmmaker visited 19 cities and towns throughout the United States interviewing recently laid-off workers, focusing on three industries: textiles, commercial aircraft and information technology. It also contains interviews with a number of members of Congress, including: Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Rosa DeLauro (D-Connecticut), Robin Hayes (R-North Carolina), Donald Manzullo (R-Illinois), and Hilda Solis (D-California), and includes an extended section of clips from the 1993 congressional debate on NAFTA. (North American Free Trade Agreement).\n\nSpotts self-released the film on DVD via a website on Labor Day, 2004. The CNN program \"Lou Dobbs Tonight\" featured excerpts from \"American Jobs\" on seven consecutive weeknights in September 2004, exposure which attracted a distribution deal. The Disinformation Company, publisher of Robert Greenwald's series of documentary DVDs, released \"American Jobs\" on DVD in February 2005, along with a companion book penned by Spotts, \"CAFTA and Free Trade: What Every American Should Know\". The book was used as a lobbying tool by the AFL-CIO and members of the US Congress during the summer of 2005 when Congress was debating ratification of the Central American Free Trade Agreement.\n\nSpotts subsequently wrote the official companion book to Robert Greenwald's 2005 documentary \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23659139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23659139", "title": "Andrey Andreev", "text": "Andrey Andreev\n\nAndrey Andreev () (born on 3 February 1974) is a Russian British entrepreneur who founded the social discovery and dating network Badoo, as well as other internet businesses: SpyLog, Begun and Mamba.\n\nIn a 2017 interview with \"The Times\", Andrey discussed an early interest in communication technology. According to Andreev, at ten years old he built a radio out of electronic hardware he found around his family home, which he successfully used to chat to a friend a block away. \n\nBefore dropping out to start his first company, he studied management at the local university, while working as a partner in an advertising and public relations company.\n\nIn the mid-90s, his family moved to Spain; Andreev himself relocated in 1995, but went back and forth between Spain and Russia.\n\nAndreev has been based in central London since 2005 and lists cooking as one of his greatest passions. The sweet onion soup 'Andreï Style' at two-Michelin-starred L'Atelier de Joël Robuchon in Covent Garden, London is named after him.\n\nIn 1995 Andreev started his first business in Russia - an online store that sold computers and computer accessories via Internet. He sold Virus in 1997 for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn 1999, Andreev founded SpyLog, a web-tracking business which helped webmasters track visits to their sites, as well as track users' habits on the web. Although there were already existing services from Rambler and Mail.ru, SpyLog grew quickly.\n\nIn 2002, Andreev started contextual advertising firm Begun, often described as an earlier version of Google AdWords. A majority share of the company was purchased by Russian investment firm FINAM in 2004. Google tried to purchase Begun for $140 million in 2008. \n\nMamba was founded in 2004. Today it is the most popular dating site in Russia, with roughly 8 million users (or 13% of Russia’s Internet population) using its service. A majority share was sold in 2006 to FINAM and Mail.ru.\n\nAndreev launched Badoo in 2006, with the product quickly spreading in popularity throughout Europe and into Latin America. Today it is the largest social network in the world for meeting new people, with over 360 million registered users, generating over $150 million per year and operating in 190 countries. In an article in 2011, \"Wired\" described Badoo as a 'mass phenomenon' in Brazil, Mexico, France, Spain and Italy.\n\nAndreev has spoken of his unique management style and the company culture at Badoo. In an interview in October 2017, he told Shortlist magazine that his philosophy in work is ‘to make people happy’, before discussing the food, perks and parties that are provided for Badoo’s staff. The company has since been named one of the Top 20 UK companies to work in, by Glassdoor. \n\nBadoo has main offices in Central London and Moscow and employs a staff of around 500.\n\nIn 2014, Andreev connected with previous Tinder co-founder Whitney Wolfe. After he persuaded her to move back into the dating space, together they built Bumble, the women-focused dating app. Speaking to \"The Guardian\", Wolfe named Andreev as her biggest mentor in business. she also admits that Andreev \"took the chance on her when no one else would,” and that “without him, the bumble journey wouldn’t have been possible.”\n\nIn 2018, Andreev was named on \"Forbes\" global list of billionaires for the first time.\n"}
{"id": "1884557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884557", "title": "Badri Patarkatsishvili", "text": "Badri Patarkatsishvili\n\nArkady Shalvovich \"Badri\" Patarkatsishvili ( 31 October 1955 – 12 February 2008) was a Georgian businessman who also became extensively involved in politics. He contested the 2008 Georgian presidential election and came third with 7.1% of the votes. Although his first name was Arkady, he was best known by the nickname \"Badri\". From the early 1980s, until the time of his death, he was a flamboyant figure in business and was behind some of the most successful companies in today's Russia. From humble origins, he became the wealthiest citizen in Georgia with an estimated wealth of $12bn. He was also one of the country's largest philanthropists. \n\nPatarkatsishvili suddenly died intestate in February 2008 sparking one of the largest estate battles in legal history. In October 2018 the government of Georgia officially accused the former president of Georgia Mikheil Saakashvili of ordering assassination of Badri Patarkatsishvili.\n\nBorn in Tbilisi to a Jewish family, Patarkatsishvili became an active member of the Komsomol, the youth wing of the Soviet Communist Party during the 1980s. He eventually became Komsomol leader at Maudi, a large textile operation.\n\nIn 1984, Badri became Deputy Director General of Gruzavtovazprom, a company that purchased and delivered cars and spare parts from AvtoVAZ, which was at the time, the largest car manufacturer in the Soviet Union. It was during trips made to the AvtoVAZ plant that he first met Boris Berezovsky who was to become a close friend and business associate. In 1989, Badri and Berezovsky founded LogoVaz with some of the senior executives of AvtoVAZ. LogoVaz developed software for AvtoVAZ, sold Soviet-made cars and serviced foreign cars. It was established as a joint venture with Logo Systems, an Italian company, which at the time was seen as pioneering in commercial relationships between East and West. LogoVaz established an office in Georgia and Badri became Deputy Director General of the company.\n\nIn 1992, Badri and his family moved to Moscow where he quickly became part of Berezovsky's increasingly influential political circle. LogoVaz had by this time become an extremely successful company and had made Badri a wealthy man. At the time, the Soviet Union was collapsing and there was a great deal of political uncertainty in the region. Badri, along with Berezvosky and other successful businessmen were supportive of Boris Yeltsin as he had liberalised trade with foreign countries, allowing their businesses to grow, however the wider economy was performing badly and there was growing support for Nikolai Ryzhkov's reformed communist party.\n\nBy 1994, Berezovsky had secured control of ORT, the largest TV station in Russia at the time, and he installed Badri as First Deputy General Director. Badri and Berezovsky then use the station's influence to assist Boris Yeltsin to victory in the 1996 presidential election. From 1994 until mid 2000, Badri was a key figure at ORT.\n\nIn 1997, he was selected to oversee the privatization of the Sibneft oil company. Sibneft was the youngest oil holding company in Russia at the time having been created hastily in early 1995 out of Rosneft. An unknown entity, Oil Finance Corporation (NFK), that had been created out of Menatep, a holding company started by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, won the auction. Berezovsky had an interest in the Menatep Group and for this reason, there was some speculation that the auction had been fixed. It later emerged that the company had been sold for a fraction of the market value.\n\nAfter Badri died, in 2012, the Sibneft privatisation was to become the subject of a high court legal battle between Chelsea football club owner Roman Abramovich and Berezovsky. According to \"The Times\", Roman Abramovich submitted a 53-page court defence that accused Boris Berezovsky and Badri Patarkatsishvili of demanding huge sums for helping him to rise from obscurity. Badri emerged as the key intermediary, passing messages between Abramovich and Berezovsky. Badri was offered $500 million by Roman Abramovich, the defence papers that were submitted admit, for protecting Roman in Russia's aluminium wars.\n\nFollowing his success at ORT, in April 2001, Badri was appointed General Director of Russia's TV6 channel, which, like ORT, was partly owned by Berezovsky. Under his control, TV6 became notorious for its anti-Kremlin line.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Berezovsky and Badri also purchased Kommersant the one of Russia's most influential political newspapers. In 2006, Berezovsky sold his controlling stake to Badri increasing Badri's holding to 100%. Badri then organised the sale of Kommersant in August 2006 to senior Gazprom executive Alisher Usmanov.\n\nBy mid 1999, Boris Yeltsin began losing his grip on power and Boris Berezovsky began to play an important role in the hunt for his successor. He did this in order to counter the political aspirations of the Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, who was seen as more of a statist. As Berezovsky lost favour with the Kremlin, investigations began into his business affairs which Berezovsky claimed to be politically motivated. This eventually led to an arrest warrant for Berezovsky being issued in April 1999 by the Prosecutor General, Yury Skuratov. Although Badri had sought to distance himself from Berezovsky's political dealings his proximity to Berezovsky was such that he began to fear that he may also be arrested so in 2000 Badri left Moscow for his native Georgia.\n\nWhen Vladimir Putin was elected in March 2000, Badri hoped that the situation for Berezovsky and himself in Russia would improve. He and Berezovsky had supported Putin in his election campaign. Badri later claimed that he had recommended Putin to Pavel Borodin, then a senior member of President Boris Yeltsin's Kremlin administration. Berezovsky had also gotten Putin appointed as Russian FSB director.\n\nHowever, Berezovsky quickly fell out with the new president. On May 31, Berezovsky sharply attacked the constitutional reform proposed by Putin, which would give the Kremlin the right to dismiss elected governors. In an open letter to Putin published in Kommersant Berezovsky, then a Duma deputy, said that he would be obliged to vote against the president's legislative project, which was \"directed toward changing the state's structure\" and represented a \"threat to Russia's territorial integrity and democracy.\" Things came to ahead in August 2000 when Berezovsky used ORT to attack Putin for his handling of the sinking of the Kursk submarine, blaming the death of 118 sailors on the Kremlin's reluctance to accept foreign help. This began to put pressure also on to Badri, whose association with Berezovsky was well known and was at the time, controlling the ORT station.\n\nIn December 2000, Nikolay Glushkov a co-founder of AvtoVAZ and a close associate of Badri and Berezovsky was arrested as part of the Russian Prosecutor General's investigation in Aeroflot, a company that Berezovsky had an interest in. Badri and Berezovsky believed the arrest to be politically motivated and part of the Kremlin's attempt to put pressure on their businesses. Glushkov suffered from a hereditary blood disease and had to receive special medical treatment in hospital. Badri and Berezovsky began negotiations with the Government for his release agreeing to give up their media interests and for Berezovsky to end his political ambitions. However, in June 2001, the Russian Prosecutor General's Office charged Badri with organizing an attempted escape from prison of Glushkov and issued an arrest warrant for him through Interpol. Knowing that he would not be given a fair trial, Badri refused to come in for questioning and, on July 4, 2001, he gave an interview to the \"Kommersant\" newspaper setting out his version of events in an attempt to clear his name. To avoid prosecution in Russia, Badri moved to Tbilisi where he had been granted political asylum. Further charges relating to the misappropriation of AvtoVaz were added in October 2002.\n\nUpon his return Badri began investing much of the vast wealth that he had accumulated in Russia into his native country. He had become personally wealthier than the entire state budget and so was able to invest in business ventures and charitable projects in a scale that had been previously unimaginable to the impoverished country. He bought the Tbilisi city football team, Dinamo Tbilisi, the Kulevi oil terminal and financed a new shopping centre in the capital and a holiday resort on the Black Sea. He also became the head of the federation of Georgian businessmen and head of the Georgian National Olympic Committee, subsidized social programs and cultural activities, and on two occasions paid debts for the gas and electricity consumed by Tbilisi residents. He funded several charity projects including schools, amusement parks - even a monastery. In return for these paternal gifts, the then president Eduard Shevardnadze agreed to allow Badri the state's protection from charges against him in Russia.\n\nIn December 2001, he founded Imedi Media Holding, the first independent broadcasting station in Georgia.\n\nDuring his early career, Badri had shown little interest in politics. However, when the Rose Revolution began in 2003 and Badri could see that Eduard Shevardnadze was losing his grip on power, he used his wealth to support the new opposition candidate Mikheil Saakashvili.\n\nRelations between Badri and Saakashvili soon deteriorated however and they became bitter rivals. Badri claimed that this was due to the coverage given by Imedi to opposition parties, Saakasvili however claimed that Badri was attempting to use his wealth to gain control of business life in Georgia. Badri began financing opposition parties in late 2006 and early 2007 and a pro-Patarkatsishvili group in parliament soon emerged that developed into the Our Georgia party. \nIn late 2007, he became embroiled in a political scandal after former defense minister Irakli Okruashvili on September 25, 2007, accused Mikheil Saakashvili, the President of Georgia, of planning Patarkatsishvili's assassination. Arrested on corruption charges, however, Okruashvili retracted his accusations against the president, winning release on bail of 10 million Georgian lari (about 6,250,000 USD). He also said that his earlier accusations levelled against Saakashvili were not true and were aimed at gaining political dividends for himself and Badri Patarkatsishvili and at discrediting the President of Georgia. On November 6, Okruashvili, said on Patarkatsishvili's Imedi TV - by then managed by Fox TV's parent News Corporation - that he had been forced into retracting his accusations against Saakashvili by pressure that he endured in prison. Down the line from Munich, he said: \"All of those accusations, all of those facts that I brought against Saakashvili, everything I said about him is the plain truth.\"\n\nAs Badri lost favour with Saakashvili's government In 2007, numerous allegations of corruption were made against him. He was impeached as president of the Georgian National Olympic Committee, and also quit as a president of the Georgian Business Federation. Tbilisi-based Rustavi 2 TV, a channel controlled by Saakashvili's government, linked his name with several notorious murders in Russia and Georgia, including the assassination of Vlad Listyev.\n\nOn October 29, 2007, Badri publicly announced his plans to finance ten opposition parties' campaign aimed at holding early parliamentary elections in April 2008. On November 2, 2007, he addressed a large anti-government rally held in downtown Tbilisi and pledged to further support it. He left Georgia for London shortly afterwards. After the demonstration turned violent, following police attacks, on November 7, 2007, Georgia's Chief Prosecutor's Office announced that he was suspected of conspiracy to overthrow the government. Nevertheless, he said he would run in the January 5, 2008, snap presidential elections under the slogan \"Georgia without Saakashvili is Georgia without Terror.\" Leaders of the major opposition parties distanced themselves from Patarkatsishvili, who had to run as an independent presidential candidate.\n\nOn December 24 and 25, 2007, the prosecutor-general's office of Georgia released a series of audio and video recordings of the two separate meetings of the high-ranking Georgian Interior Ministry official Erekle Kodua with Patarkatsishvili and the head of his pre-election campaign Valeri Gelbakhiani. According to the government, Patarkatsishvili was trying to bribe Kodua to take part in what the Georgian officials described as an attempted coup d'état on January 6, 2008, the next of the scheduled presidential elections. The plan included to stage a mass manifestation against the government and to \"neutralize\" the Interior Minister Vano Merabishvili. Later independent journalist Vakhtang Komakidze produced what he said was the full transcript of the recorded conversation which showed that Patarkatsishvili was advising against violence and the extracts released had been doctored The accusations forced Patarkatsishvili onto the defensive. He confirmed that he met with Kodua in London, but denied that the bribe was in connection to an alleged coup plot and claimed instead that his intention was to uncover what he said were official plans to rig the election. He also confirmed that he offered Kodua \"a huge amount of money\" in exchange for defecting from the authorities allegedly to avert a possible use of force by the government against the planned January rallies.\n\nOn December 28, 2007, Patarkatsishvili announced that he would withdraw his bid for presidency, but would nominally remain a candidate until January 4, 2008. On January 3, 2008, he reversed himself, however, and decided to run in presidential elections. In response, his top campaign official Giorgi Zhvania (brother of Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania) resigned, declaring that Patarkasishvili did not have the unquestionable reputation one would expect of a country's president.\n\nPatarkatsishvali was chairman of the Dinamo Tbilisi soccer club.\nHe also served as president of the Georgian National Olympic Committee (GNOC), until being impeached on October 9, 2007, after falling out with the government.\n\nIn September 2006, Badri announced that he was considering a bid for the London football club West Ham. However, the deal never came to fruition.\n\nPatarkatsishvili was married to Inna Gudavadze. The couple have two children, Lianna Zhmotova and Iya Patarkatsishvili.\n\nPatarkatsishvili, aged 52, collapsed at Downside Manor, his mansion in Leatherhead, Surrey, England on February 12, 2008, at 10.45 pm. Ambulance crew members tried unsuccessfully to resuscitate him, but he was pronounced dead at 10.52 pm. As in any other case of unexpected death, Surrey police treated the case as \"suspicious\" and launched an official investigation.\n\nThe businessman spent his last day in the City of London office of international law firm Debevoise and Plimpton, meeting his business partner Boris Berezovsky, his spokesperson Lord Bell and his lawyer Lord Goldsmith QC, as well as fellow exiles, the Russians Nikolai Glushkov and Yuli Dubov From the City he left for Down Street, Mayfair, to visit Berezovsky's office, and at 7.00 pm was returned to Leatherhead with his Maybach. Shortly after dining, Patarkatsishvili told his family he felt unwell and went upstairs to his bedroom where he was found unconscious after a heart attack.\n\nPreliminary reports indicated a heart attack as the cause of death. According to the first post-mortem tests, the death of Patarkatsishvili appeared to have been from natural cardiac-related causes. According to the pathologist Ashley Fegan-Earl, he could identify a \"severity that could have resulted in a sudden and unexplained collapse and death at any time.\" He also concluded that chest pain that Patarkatsishvili had had and a sudden collapse \"were consistent with death due to coronary heart diseases.\" Patarkatsishvili's father, Shalva Patarkatsishvili, also died of a heart attack at an early age of 48. The businessman had no history of illness but was reported to have led an unhealthy lifestyle, smoking excessively and taking no exercise. According to Lord Bell, \"he [Badri] always looked 10 years older than he was.\" However, theories of a possible assassination were considered seriously by some. \"[A] number of compounds known to be used by the former KGB can induce heart failure, but leave virtually no trace. One is sodium fluoroacetate, a fine white powder derived from pesticide.\" The British police checked Patarkatishvili's Surrey mansion for radioactive elements but reportedly found none.\n\n\"London Lite\" was the first newspaper to inform the British public of the Georgian oligarch's death on the evening of 13 February 2008. In the news of 14 February 2008, Patarkatsishvili's death was covered in The Guardian, The Times, Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Independent, etc. Most newspapers discussed Patarkatsishvili's business history, including his close ties with Boris Berezovsky, Roman Abramovich, Alexander Litvinenko, Mikheil Saakashvili and Vladimir Putin.\n\nReuters reported that Patarkatsishvili feared the Georgian authorities were plotting to kill him, a source close to the late businessman said on the day of death.\"\n\nAssociated Press reported that on December 26, 2007, Patarkatsishvili said that he had obtained a tape recording of an official in his homeland's Interior Ministry asking a Chechen warlord to murder the tycoon in London. \"I believe they want to kill me,\" he said. He said the tape had been given to police.\n\n\"Novaya Gazeta\" reported the following information. Patarkatsishvili, living in London, was approached by members of the Saakashvili government demanding that he sell his controlling share in the dissident Imedi TV network. Initially, Patarkatsishvili refused, but was then offered an unprecedented deal: exchanging ownership of Imedi for ownership of the entire Georgian railroad system. Being a businessman, Patarkatsishvili reportedly agreed; however, when the Saakashvili side sent him the contract, there was a new clause, which required Badri to invest $2,000,000,000 in the \"improvement\" of the railroad property. He refused, but died shortly after. Novaya Gazeta's source is one of the lawyers from the legal side of this deal.\n\nFollowing Badri's death, several of his closest business associates made attempts to fraudulently claim his business assets from his family members, who were (Badri having died without leaving an valid will), under Georgian law, entitled to his residual estate.\n\nShortly after Badri died, Joseph Kay, the stepson of Patarkatsishvili's aunt and someone who had assisted Badri with his business affairs, along with the American lawyer, Emmanuel Zeltser, attempted to take control of Imedi, Mtatsminda Park and the Rustavi Metallurgical Plant in Georgia, as well as other assets belonging to Inna Gudavadze and the Patarkatsishvili family, including a large development on Fisher Island in Florida, by claiming to be in possession of Patarkatsishvili's last will and testament that appointed Kay as executor of the estate. These documents were later declared to be forgeries in the UK High Court. Kay's case was comprehensively dismissed by Mr Justice Dudley in the Supreme Court of Gibraltar in February 2010. Justice Dudley described Kay's case as \"wholly unconvincing\" adding that he was a \"mendacious individual\" and \"certainly not a witness of truth.\" After several further legal battles in the US, UK, and Georgia, the assets were returned to the Patarkatsishvili family.\n\nAnother claim over the estate was launched in 2012 by Boris Berezovsky. Berezovsky claimed that half of Badri's assets belong to him under a handshake agreement that the two men made in 1995 to split all their commercial interests equally. However, following the judgement of Gloster J in Berezovsky v Abramovich 2012 that gave a damming report of Berezovsky's character, Berezovsky quickly settled his case against the Patarkatsishvili family. The details of the settlement however remained confidential.\n\nIn 2013, Inna Gudavadze, her two daughters, Iya Patarkatsishvili and Liana Zhmotova, and Badri's mother Natela Patarkatsishvili brought a $1.8bn action against another of Badri's business associates, Vasily Anisimov. The family claimed that they had a part-entitlement to the 20% share formerly held by Anisimov in mining company Metalloinvest. The case was settled in March 2014 before it came to court.\n\n"}
{"id": "4184980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4184980", "title": "Business International (TV programme)", "text": "Business International (TV programme)\n\nBusiness International is a news television programme which aired on CNN International. It was anchored by Adrian Finighan and Becky Anderson from CNN's London studios.\n\n\"Business International\" was launched in 2000. As the title implies, it covered international business news. During the programme, market reports would come from the London Stock Exchange. However, in later years, the programme devoted more air time to breaking world news.\n\nThe European evening edition of the programme, presented by Anderson, also had sports updates and a preview of the following day's newspaper headlines.\n\n\"Business International\" aired up to three live one-hour editions on weekdays. The show aired at 8.00, 11.00 and 22.00 GMT on weekdays.\n\n\"Business International\" was cancelled in 2009 and replaced by \"World Business Today\" and \"Quest Means Business\".\n"}
{"id": "47342128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47342128", "title": "Christiaan Justus Enschedé", "text": "Christiaan Justus Enschedé\n\nChristiaan Justus Enschedé (9 December 1788 in Haarlem –26 June 1829 in Haarlem) was a Haarlem newspaper editor and printer.\n\nHe was a son of Johannes Enschedé Jr. and Johanna Elisabeth Swaving. For some time he was a partner in the family company. On 9 August 1827 in Rotterdam he married Adriana Maria van Dalen (Rotterdam, 10 May 1801 – Haarlem, 31 January 1858) the daughter of Abraham Cornelis Dalen and Jacoba Catharina Durselen.\n\n"}
{"id": "38386396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38386396", "title": "Construction Data Company", "text": "Construction Data Company\n\nConstruction Data Company, is a publisher of business information which caters to the commercial construction industry. They are also known as CDC News and CDC Publishing, and are the third largest provider of commercial SaaS construction reports in the United States, next to Dodge Report and Reed Construction Data. They supply construction data and project information for the commercial construction industry through numerous regional reports in 30 states.\n\nInformation products are targeted to general contractors, sub-contractors, suppliers and manufacturers reps and are available in print or online. CDC is headquartered in Vero Beach, Florida and owned by an investment group, ALTA, LLC. CDC's Lead Manager software has consistently achieved the highest ratings of customer satisfaction and product innovation in the industry. They have a partnership with eTakeoff.com which allows general contractors and sub-contractors whom subscribe to the service to download blueprints (or \"plans\") and spec books directly to a plotter through computer-aided design. Contractors also have access to a given project's architectural reprography.\n\nCDC operates three companies under its umbrella, each focusing on a different geographic location. BidTool.net covers the construction activity in Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Colorado, while CDC covers most of the rest of the country, with the exception of the southeastern US, which is covered by its DataFax arm.\n\nThe company, founded in the late 1970s, offers both online reports in all markets and a paper report is maintained in a few select markets, such as New England. The company generates approximately $10M in annual revenue. CDC's president is L. William Black.\n\nIn 2016 Construction Data became a part of ConstructConnect which was the result of a merger with iSqFt, BidClerk, and Construction Market Data.\n\n"}
{"id": "15244575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15244575", "title": "Danske Dandridge", "text": "Danske Dandridge\n\nDanske Dandridge (November 19, 1854 – June 3, 1914) was a Danish-born American poet, historian, and garden writer. Along with her contemporaries, Waitman T. Barbe and Thomas Dunn English, Dandridge was considered a major poet of late 19th-century West Virginia.\n\nBy marriage, Dandridge secured not only the sympathy, encouragement and criticism she needed, but alliteration of name. She had scribbled verses since she was a child of eight. But the morbid, sensitive child had not attempted ambitious verse, nor did she as a grown woman till she had been married some years. Her works were \"Joy and Other Poems\", \"Twilight in the Woods\", \"The Lover in the Woods\", \"Rose Brake\", and miscellaneous contributions to the periodicals.\n\nCaroline \"Danske\" Bedinger was born on November 19, 1854 in Copenhagen, Denmark. Her father was Hon. Henry Bedinger, was the first United States ambassador to Denmark, having been appointment by President Buchanan. He wrote poems for \"The Southern Literary Messenger\". Her mother was Caroline Lawrence Bedinger (from Rhode Island), was a granddaughter of Eliza Southgate Bowne (1797–1802), whose “Letters of a Young Girl Eighty Years Ago” gave a picture of New England society in the early years of the 19th-century. \n\nShe was brought to the United States in 1857, living in Flushing, New York. \nMr. Bedinger's death took place shortly before the beginning of the American Civil War, and his widow returned with her three children – of whom Danske was the youngest — to the homestead at Shepherdstown, Virginia.\nIn Shepherdstown, her mother purchased an estate called \"Poplar Grove\", renaming it \"Rose Brake\" and here the family cared for wounded soldiers during the Battle of Antietam. \nShe did not survive her husband many years; and the orphans were taken into the care of their grandfather, Hon. J. W. Lawrence, at Flushing, Long Island. \n\nDandridge was frail in health and nervous in temperament. Early in life, she developed the practice of singing, and, later, the study of the composition of verse. She wrote in rhyme from childhood, but refrained from publishing until her work was no longer immature. \n\nDanske married Adam Stephen Dandridge, Jr. on May 3, 1877, and they moved back to Shepherdstown. He owned an agricultural implements and machinery shop, and like his wife, was a member of a prominent Virginia family. The Dandridges went on to have three children. Her husband was not rich, and they lived upon a farm. Thus, Dandridge did not have access to books or opportunities for literary culture. At times, she did not have a dictionary, and she was burdened with ill health.\n\nShe began writing poetry again in 1883 and had her first poem, \"Chrysanthemum\", published in \"Godey's Lady's Book\" in 1885. She renamed her husband's Shepherdstown family home \"Rose Brake\" at about the same time. In the following summer, she wrote “The Lover in the Woods” for \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\"; and “Twilight in the Woods” for the \"New York Independent\". To the latter journal, she was a constant and favorite contributor, writing also for various magazines and other periodicals. Her first volume, entitled \"Joy, and Other Poems\" (G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1888), a collection of fugitive verses, made a distinct impression. The critics united in praise of the delicate, aerial music, the sensitive sympathy with nature, the luminous and capricious fancy, and the bright and healthful tone of these poems. Dandridge never overstrained the clear light voice that is hers; not even when she touches tragic notes, as in the finely imaginative ode, “The Dead Moon,” or in the more directly human theme of the terse and significant lyric, “Fate.” Her comprehension and utterance of the realities of life appeared delicately remote. The volume was also recalled as a sweet, simple first venture. None of the poems were profound or great; but many were striking for thought and expression, and they all had a delicate freshness. \n\nThe second volume of poems by Dandridge was published in 1890. It took its title, “Rose Brake,” from the name of her estate in Shepherdstown. One reviewer stated that the volume fully confirmed the favorable impression already made by her first publication. In the poem \"Fancy\", she was said to have excelled; while in the expression of sentiment less imaginative, her work was good, but not surpassing. Yet another reviewer stated that Dandridge's first volume, \"Joy and Other Poems\", raised hopes which her second volume, \"Rose Brake\", did not satisfy. There was no lack of metrical skill, or appreciation of nature and subtle moods, but there was lacking the deeper interpretation of life which poetry demands.\n\nDuring the period of 1891 till 1904, she turned to writing garden articles, more than 200 of them, for \"Forest and Stream\", \"Garden and Forest\", \"Gardening\", among other publications. After that, she devoted her time to writing works of early American history. \n\nDandridge created a \"remarkable\" garden at Rose Brake, assisted by Afro-American gardeners Tom and Charity Devonshire. Here, she spent time in her hammock. She had three children, but the death of two of them led her to be withdrawn. There was speculation that Dandridge's death at home in Shepherdstown, on June 3, 1914, was a suicide, though it was refuted by the family.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20958702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20958702", "title": "Detroit Economic Club", "text": "Detroit Economic Club\n\nThe Detroit Economic Club, headquartered at 211 West Fort Street in downtown Detroit, Michigan, was formed in 1934 as a platform for the discussion and debate of important business, government and social issues. It is known internationally as a top speaking forum for prominent business, academic, and government officials, who address members and their guests at the Club's 35-meeting season. With more than 3,500 members, the DEC is a forum for vital issues. The DEC claims to have hosted every sitting U.S. President since Richard Nixon and is ranked among the top speaking platforms in the world. The DEC is one of the most valued podiums for CEO's in the world and one of the top five executive speaking forums in America.\n\nThe Detroit Economic Club was founded in 1934 by Allen Crow. The objective of the Club was and still is: to promote an interest in, and to enlighten its members on important governmental, economic and societal issues. The growth in the Club was rapid in the first year, with 275 men joining. Specifically \"men\" because women were not admitted until 1973. That was the year after Michigan ratified the Equal Rights Amendment. Within five years of the inception, the Club's membership had grown to 1,100 and post World War II the membership was approaching 2,000. The logo of the Club is an Aladdin's Lamp, which Crow selected it because it was the Greek symbol for enlightenment. That is what the Club is all about. Born out of the Depression, the Club tends to succeed, even when the economy is not. Founder, Allen Crow, had a big idea: \"Maybe if you gathered a lot of smart people in one room, on a regular basis, they could figure the way out (The Great Depression).\"\n\nThe main activity of the Club is usually is in the form of a breakfast or lunch/business meeting setting. The Club presents, on average, 35 meetings per year. Where the speaker(s) take the podium/stage and address whatever their topic is at that time. Speakers usually speak for about 20–30 minutes and there is reserved times for networking and questions. Traditionally, the club would meet on Monday's. You might wonder why the Club met on a Monday. The history goes back before commercial air travel and the meetings were scheduled by Allen Crow on Monday's so that the speakers could travel to Detroit by train over the weekend and this would conserve their weekly business time. Originally, annual dues were $5.00 and tickets were $1.50. Over the years the dues have naturally increased to keep pace with inflation and growth. Now the Club has five categories of memberships ranging from Young Leader dues at $75.00 to Gold Membership at $500.00. The Club's meeting place was and still are some of the same venues from the early stages of the Club such as: the Book Cadillac Hotel (now the Westin Book Cadillac), and later a number of the Club's meetings took place at Cobo Hall, and is still a principal location.\n\nHow The Club obtain speakers, is often asked. In early days, they did pay, but this costly practice was eliminated. Now, the speakers come because they welcome the opportunity to address the Club's prestigious forum, and for the extensive outreach they know their message will receive. In addition to the newspaper coverage that the speakers receive, a number of radio stations use to broadcast the meetings and was carried to about 400,000 Metro-Detroit area homes. Now, there is still the newspaper and radio coverage, but by technology advancing the way that it has, the Club sometimes have a live-stream for viewers at home or members on the road. The Club has always pushed to obtain some of the region's most prominent and well spoken leaders around the globe. To be fair, The Club has hosted a meeting with every President of the United States since former President Nixon. The first woman speaker at the DEC was Catherine Curtis on November 1, 1937 and she spoke on \"The Housewife as Capitalist.\" The first Black speaker was Lester Granger, President of the National Urban League on January 19, 1948. In addition to those groundbreaking speakers, there has been a number of international level leaders as well to grace the Club with their wisdom and words of enlightenment such as: Soviet Ambassador to the U.S. Antoly Dobrynin, Bruno Kreisky when he was the Australian Chancellor, Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba to the U.S. Jose Ramon Cabanas Rodriguez, and countless others.\n\nThe President of the Club, historically was the chief operating officer as well as the president. Nowadays, those titles and tasks are handled by two separate individuals with the same goal in mind. Since the first President and Founder, Allen B. Crow, there has been eight other fantastic Leaders of this great Club. Lester Skene Bork, Walker Lee Cisler, (who was also one of the founding members of the National Academy of Engineering) Russel A. Swaney, Theodore H. Mecke, Jr., Wesley R. Johnson, (also served as President of Woodall Industries and Libbey Owens Ford Plastics before retiring and serving the DEC) Gerald E. Warren, William R. Halling, (served on the Board of Directors for: Compuware and KPMG, LLP and also the third longest presidential term for the Club) and current President, Elizabeth \"Beth\" Chappell, who has been serving the Club for 15 years, which is the second longest term after the Founder, Allen B. Crow. Mrs. Chappell has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Detroit Economic Club since 2002. Previously, she served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Investor Relations for Compuware Corporation. From 1995 to 2000, Mrs. Chappell was President and Chief Executive Officer of a consulting firm she founded, The Chappell Group, Inc. For 16 years, Mrs. Chappell held executive positions at AT&T. From 1999 to 2009. Recently, Beth has announced that she will be moving forward with her career and starting a company that she co-founded with her son-in-law, but insist that members and supporters know that she will always be a part of the Club, as she has been for 27 years.\n\nThe Young Leader Program has been growing steadily over the years since its launch in 2007. The Young Leader members are made up of over 1,200 young professionals in out of the Metro-Detroit area. All YL members are under the age of 40 years, which is the only requirement to join the Young Leaders program. Not only do are the YL members allowed to regular DEC meetings, but also have their very own Young Leader Series meetings of their own. In addition to hosting an annual Young Leader Conference. The Young Leader program is continuously growing with more young professionals who are invested into the economic and political future of the great City of Detroit.\n\nThe Detroit Economic Club’s Career Readiness Academy is a 6-month program that brings high school and Young Leader (YLs) members together for monthly meetings that aim to teach skills that will help the students effectively navigate their high school journey to find greater success in the working world. The same team of YLs and students meet each month which not only provides the opportunity for more personalized attention but also forges important mentor-mentee relationships. The monthly sessions are broke up into 6 groups, specifically to educate these students on career exploration, economic realities, college, and a number of other amazing tools that they will need as they work their way into the career path of their liking.\n\nIn June 2009, the DEC assembled some of America’s top business, government and academic leaders, among others, in debate and dialogue on four issues of vital importance to America’s future in a global economy - Technology, Energy, Environment, and Manufacturing. The goal of The National Summit was to bring attention to actions that would improve America’s ability to compete in the 21st century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2176325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2176325", "title": "Downtown Louisville", "text": "Downtown Louisville\n\nDowntown Louisville is the largest central business district in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the urban hub of the Louisville, Kentucky Metropolitan Area. Its boundaries are the Ohio River to the north, Hancock Street to the east, York and Jacob Streets to the south, and 9th Street to the west. As of 2015, the population of Downtown Louisville was 4,700, although this does not include directly surrounding areas such as Old Louisville, Butchertown, NuLu,and Phoenix Hill.\n\nThe five main areas of the Central Business District consist of:\nThe tallest buildings in Kentucky are located in Downtown Louisville and include 400 West Market designed by John Burgee, National City Tower designed by Harrison & Abramovitz, PNC Plaza designed by Welton Becket, and the Humana Building designed by Michael Graves. Of the 16 buildings in Kentucky over , 12 are in Downtown Louisville. In addition, it is the center of local and regional government.\n\nA glassed-in skywalk called the Louie Link stretches six city blocks and links together the Kentucky International Convention Center (KICC), Fourth Street Live!, three hotels (Galt House Hotel & Suites, Marriott and Hyatt Regency), and 2,300 hotel rooms. In 2010 it was extended from the Galt House to the new $16 million Skywalk Garage, an eight-level, 860-space parking facility on Third Street, and a second skywalk connects from the garage across Third Street to the new KFC Yum! Center.\n\nDowntown Louisville is the oldest part of the city of Louisville, whose initial development was closely tied to the Ohio River. The largest early fort, Fort Nelson, was built in 1781 near what is today the corner of 7th and Main streets. Many early residents lived nearby after moving out of the forts by the mid-1780s, although little remains of the earliest (mostly wood) structures.\n\nEarly plans of the city, such as William Pope's original plan in 1783, show a simple grid on an east/west axis along the river. The earliest streets, Main, Market and Jefferson retain their original names from the plan, while the smaller Green Street is now known as Liberty (it was renamed after Green Street acquired a seedy reputation due to its many burlesque theaters). Main Street was the city's initial commercial hub for nearly a century.\n\nBy 1830 Louisville passed Lexington as Kentucky's largest city, with a population over 10,000. The steamboat era saw the opening of the Louisville and Portland Canal just west of downtown, and local commerce picked up further with the founding of banks and manufacturing. Most of Louisville's population was packed into downtown, which by this time stretched as far south as Prather Street (later renamed Broadway). Many still-remaining buildings reveal what the area was like at this time, with narrow, two to four-story buildings packing the streets.\n\nThe area and the city continued to grow during the railroad era. However, the increased mobility of early trolleys, as well as the sheer number and diversity of people moving to Louisville, saw a shift in focus as areas like Phoenix Hill, Russell and what is now Old Louisville began to be built on the edges of downtown, particularly after the city annexed those areas in 1868. Railroads lead to a diminished role for the river in transportation, further reducing the importance of downtown in favor of areas on what was then the edge of the city, along rail lines.\n\nIn 1886, the first skyscraper, the Kenyon Building, was completed on Fifth Street, followed in 1890 by the ten-story Columbia Building. The development of three large suburban parks and the electrified streetcar lead to the first true movement to the suburbs at this time. Some of downtown's business and industry followed people toward these areas. But by the 1920s the commercial center of Louisville was still nearby, at 4th and Broadway, dubbed the \"magic corner\" by the \"Herald-Post\". The riverfront area of downtown was still being actively improved, such as with the building of what is now George Rogers Clark Memorial Bridge across the Ohio at Second Street in 1929.\n\nAfter World War II, suburbanization increased and downtown began to decline as interstate highways further reduced the importance of its central location. Since the 1970s, downtown has been the subject of both urban renewal and historic preservation efforts. While many new buildings have been built, it has sometimes been at the expense of older landmarks, such as the Tyler Block.\n\nMany buildings sat totally or mostly vacant at this time, and some became dilapidated to the point where they burned down or had to be razed. Many riverfront industrial sites were abandoned or saw limited use, many were eventually redeveloped into Louisville Waterfront Park. Other issues in the 1970s through the early 1990s included a former theater district on Jefferson Street that had become dubbed the \"porno district\". The businesses there were seen by the city as an eyesore since they were so close to the convention center, and most were demolished or burned down by the late 1990s. A few adult book stores and bars remained in the general area as of 2007.\n\nFrom the late 1970s to early 1990s, nine new high rises over in height were built in downtown. Unlike the city's previous tallest buildings, which were all set along the Broadway corridor, these new buildings were set closer to the riverfront along Main and Market Streets.\n\nSince 2000, downtown has seen another major growth spurt, although this one not only includes new high rises, but also a large scale return of large scale residential and retail back to the city center. The completion of Louisville Slugger Field along with a mass expansion of the city's\nWaterfront Park, both completed in 1998, sparked new development along the eastern edge of downtown, with entire abandoned blocks rebuilt with new condominium units and shops. Also, new to Louisville is the 22,000-seat KFC Yum! Center at Second and Main Streets which was completed in 2010.\n\nEarly residences outside of the forts, still mostly wood structures, were built along the modern street grid on early lots sold to settlers, but have all been demolished over time. What became the almost entirely office and parking-lot dominated downtown still had many solidly single family residential blocks on its fringes up until the early 20th century. Streets near Broadway, such as Chestnut, were lined with large mansions of the owners of businesses on Main and Market streets.\n\nThough these houses were built of brick and other longer-lasting materials, none remained single family homes by the 21st century, although some had been converted for other uses, such as office space. The Brennan House at 631 S. Fifth, which is operated as a historic property with daily tours, shows a glimpse of Downtown Louisville's residential past. A structure at 432 South Fifth Street is the only example of a pre-Civil War residence remaining Downtown; built in 1829 it has been converted to commercial use.\n\nBy the late 20th century, downtown Louisville had acquired a reputation as a place to work and visit during the week but which shuts down evenings and weekends. The first changes to this were the conversion of old warehouse and factory space to loft apartments in the late 1980s. By the late 1990s and early 2000s, new developments of luxury condominiums such as the 22-story \"Waterfront Park Place\", and the $30 million project \"Fleur de Lis on Main\", indicate increasing residential interest in Downtown Louisville. On September 9, 2013, Mayor Greg Fischer joined groundbreaking ceremonies for the second phase of \"RiverPark Place\", a marina apartment/condominium development covering 40 acres along River Road, with a walkway west to Waterfront Park. In 1997, the Kentucky Towers was the largest residential building in Downtown Louisville, and in 2015, just south of downtown, The 800 Apartments started undergoing a more than $10 million modernization. In 2007 Downtown Louisville became Jefferson County's tenth Multiple Listing Service zone.\n\nHousing units available downtown were expected to double between 2005 and 2010, from 1,800 to nearly 4,000, after increasing by only 900 units from 1985 to 2005. This is both a result of new condominium construction and efforts to convert existing buildings into mixed usage, such as the $20 million redevelopment of the historic eight-story \"Henry Clay\" building at Third and Chestnut streets into a mix of residential, restaurant, retail and event space. The redevelopment also includes property that extends east to Fourth Street, which will become a public piazza, and the historic \"Wright-Taylor\" building, a two-story, structure that faces Fourth Street and is located behind the Henry Clay, and is now an upscale restaurant that occupies the entire Wright-Taylor building.\n\nProjects in the works include the construction of a wharf along the Riverwalk Trail, and the Ohio River Bridges Project, involving the reconstruction of Spaghetti Junction (the intersection of I-65, I-64 and I-71) along with the addition of a new bridge for northbound I-65 traffic. One recently completed project was the conversion of the former Big Four railroad bridge into a pedestrian and bicycle only bridge, which opened on the Kentucky side in 2013 and the Indiana side in 2014.\n\nOn August 19, 2007, city leaders and the Cordish Company, developers of 4th Street Live!, announced \"Center City\", a $442 million, multi-year plan to develop , bounded by Second, Third and Liberty streets and Muhammad Ali Boulevard, that will include new housing, restaurants, a cinema and a boutique hotel. An estimated of floor space being created, including a 15-story structure. As the plan would require $130 million in local and state tax rebates for Cordish, it requires approval from the Louisville Metro Council and Kentucky General Assembly. There is no official start time for the project, as financing is still being secured by the Cordish Company.\n\nAlso announced in 2007, the glass and steel $50 million shopping and office complex \"Iron Quarter\" was to be constructed within the Whiskey Row Historic District, but the project was delayed and eventually set aside when property owner Todd Blue made an agreement with the city of Louisville in January 2011 to demolish the seven original buildings. In May 2011, after all seven buildings had been landmarked, a new agreement was made with the city to save five of the seven buildings by donating one and selling the other four, with the remaining two to be demolished. Facades of all seven buildings are to be preserved.\n\nMany attractions are located in Downtown Louisville.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41216876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41216876", "title": "Downtown Triangle (Jerusalem)", "text": "Downtown Triangle (Jerusalem)\n\nThe Downtown Triangle (, \"Ha-Meshulash\", lit. \"The Triangle\") is a central commercial and entertainment district in Western Jerusalem. Measuring , the area is bounded by Jaffa Road on the north, King George Street on the west, and Ben Yehuda Street on the southeast. Its vertices are the intersections of Jaffa Road and King George Street, King George and Ben Yehuda Streets, and Ben Yehuda Street and Jaffa Road (the latter known as Zion Square).\n\nFrom the mid-1940s through the 1960s, the Triangle was the commercial and cultural heart of Jerusalem, with many upscale shops and restaurants operated by German-Jewish immigrant businessmen that appealed to an affluent clientele. Following the reunification of Jerusalem in 1967 and the expansion of the city away from the downtown core, the commercial viability of the Triangle declined. The area was revitalized by the conversion of Ben Yehuda Street and the interior streets of the Triangle to an open-air pedestrian mall in 1982. Over the next two decades, outdoor cafes and souvenir shops moved in, cementing the reputation of the Triangle as a popular shopping and entertainment venue for tourists and young Israelis.\n\nBefore the British Mandatory government took over in 1917, the main commercial district in Jerusalem was in the Old City. With an eye to the continuing development of new neighborhoods outside the Old City Walls, the British drew up a master town plan that called for the establishment of two commercial hubs in the New City. The first commercial district to be built was the Downtown Triangle, although it was intended to play a secondary role to the other planned commercial district in the Mamilla area, which was closer to the Old City. However, the Mamilla development did not garner as much interest as the Triangle.\n\nThe land used for the Downtown Triangle had been purchased by the Jewish Colonization Association from the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate, which began selling off some of its holdings in Jerusalem after World War I. The British developed the field into a triangular district (hence its appellation, \"The Triangle\") demarcated by Jaffa Road, Ben Yehuda Street (constructed by the British in 1922) and King George Street (constructed by the British in 1924). Lots were sold to large companies and cooperatives as well as private businesses. Other streets adjacent to the Triangle – Shlomzion Hamalka, Mamilla, Agron, and King David Streets – were zoned for commercial and residential use.\n\nAccording to Jerusalem architectural historian David Kroyanker, the heyday of the Downtown Triangle lasted from the early 1930s to the 1970s. Many stores and restaurants were opened by German Jewish immigrants who sought to recreate a European ambience in the city center. Their upscale boutiques, coffeehouses, delicatessens, and exclusive restaurants were frequented by senior Mandate officials and wealthy, English-speaking tourists. Unlike Israeli stores that sold all kinds of unrelated products under one roof, the Europeans introduced boutiques that featured only one item, such as gloves or ties. Some shops offered unique extras, such as coffeehouses that included an orchestra and dance floor, and a bookstore with a second-floor library.\n\nThe European immigrant-owned bookstores fueled the demand for detective fiction, historical reading, and periodicals from Germany and England. Steimatzky, which opened its first bookstore on Jaffa Road in the Triangle in 1925, identified the growing taste for imported newspapers and magazines and bought the franchises for many of them. The European immigrants also created a market for cold cuts and cheeses, with three competing delicatessens on King George and Ben Yehuda Streets. For many years, the Triangle was also the only place where Jerusalem residents could purchase clothing, shoes, furniture, and household goods.\n\nAt its peak, the district was home to 14 cinemas screening the newest Hollywood fare. Located in close proximity to one another, the cinemas would attract both adults and youth, who would afterwards patronize the coffeehouses and restaurants. The Downtown Triangle was the cultural heart of the city and the place \"to see and be seen\".\n\nThe cosmopolitan flavor of the Triangle extended to its buildings. The Sansur building, for example, has an \"eclectic\" design that combines \"neo-Renaissance and classicist elements\". Approximately 15 buildings in the Triangle were designed by architect Reuven Avraham Rabinowitz, who often added a row of roughly dressed stone to the facade to demarcate each story.\n\nFollowing the reunification of Jerusalem in 1967, the city embarked on significant expansion. Large commercial centers were opened in the new, outlying neighborhoods of Talpiot, Givat Shaul, and Malha, drawing customers away from the city center. Government offices began moving out as well, precipitating the economic decline of the Downtown Triangle in the 1970s. The clientele of the upscale European boutiques had also aged, and the neighborhoods adjacent to downtown became occupied by poor and Haredi Jews who did not patronize the Triangle. The elegant shops gave way to hummus restaurants, dollar stores, and money changers. The advent of television precipitated the closure of most of the Triangle's cinemas.\nIn 1982, the city attempted to revitalize the downtown district by closing Ben Yehuda Street and the Triangle's interior streets (Luncz, Dorot Rishonim, Yavetz, Ben Hillel, and HaHistadrut Streets) to traffic, and converting the entire area to an open-air pedestrian mall. Though taxi companies demonstrated against the renovation and merchants claimed it would fail, the idea proved successful. Outdoor cafes, pizzerias, and fast-food restaurants moved into the Triangle, together with shops selling souvenirs, Judaica, and jewelry to tourists. Street musicians, street artists, political promoters, and tables manned by Chabad and Breslov Hasidim add to the lively nature of the mall. The pedestrian mall restored the Triangle's reputation as the \"heart\" of the city, although the formerly upscale, European tone was replaced by a more populist image. The introduction of the Jerusalem Light Rail in December 2011 further increased local and visitor traffic: estimates show that 36,000 pedestrians per day visited the Triangle in April 2012, up from 16,000 per day in April 2004. The mall is especially busy on Saturday nights, as eateries that have closed for Shabbat reopen and the streets are crowded with young Israelis from Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, the pedestrian mall became noted for hosting a growing presence of at-risk and homeless youth. Three youth centers – Hameshulash, Hezroni's Squat, and The Zone – operate in the vicinity of Zion Square.\n\nDue to its centrality and large concentration of visitors and entertainment venues, the Downtown Triangle has been the target of numerous bombing attacks and attempted attacks. On 22 February 1948, three British Army trucks led by an armored car driven by Arab irregulars and British deserters exploded on Ben Yehuda Street, killing 58 Jewish civilians and injuring 140. On 4 July 1975, a refrigerator containing of explosives detonated in Zion Square, killing 15 and wounding 77. On 24 March 1979, a bomb exploded in a trash can in Zion Square, killing one and wounding 13.\n\nDuring the suicide bomber era in the late 1990s, three suicide bombers stationed at different points on Ben Yehuda Street exploded themselves almost simultaneously, causing eight deaths and 277 injuries. A similar \"relay\" bombing attack took place on 1 December 2001: Police and emergency medical personnel were rushing to the scene of a double suicide bombing attack in the Triangle when a car bomb exploded; 20 died and 150 were wounded. Earlier, in August, a Sbarro restaurant at the corner of Jaffa Road and King George Street, packed with lunchtime customers, was bombed; 15 people died and 90 were wounded.\n\nIn February 2014, in response to lobbying by terror victims groups, the Jerusalem municipality held a ceremony and mounted a memorial plaque at the site of the 1948 bombing on Ben Yehuda Street.\n\nThe tallest building in the Triangle is the seven-story, Hamashbir Lazarchan department store, which opened on the eastern side of Zion Square in 2011. It is the largest department store in Israel and the flagship store of the 38-store chain. Hamashbir is intimately associated with the Downtown Triangle, as the first Hamashbir store was established across the street from its current location in 1947, and moved to another vertex of the Triangle, at King George and Ben Yehuda Streets, from 1970 to 2010.\n\nFreimann and Bein (50 Jaffa Road) was the first luxury shoe store in Israel. Founded by German-Jewish immigrants, it imported quality leather shoes from Europe and attracted a clientele of British officers and Arab sheikhs. The store originally opened in the Generali Building further east on Jaffa Road in 1935 and moved to 50 Jaffa Road in 1947. It closed in 2014. Khalifa Shoes (44 Jaffa Road), founded in 1954, is a Jewish family-owned business specializing in Israeli-made shoes and sandals.\n\nThe longest-lasting dining establishments in the Triangle were Atara Cafe and Fink's Bar. Atara Cafe operated at 7 Ben Yehuda Street from 1938 to 1996. The European-style coffeehouse was a favorite of Mandate officers, pre-state paramilitary groups, and Israeli politicians, journalists, and bohemians. Fink's Bar, at the corner of King George and HaHistadrut Streets, was open from 1936 to 2006. The intimate, exclusive restaurant was one of the most prestigious dining addresses in Jerusalem. Specializing in European cuisine, the restaurant/bar made its kitchen kosher in 2003 in order to overcome several years of declining business and broaden its customer base beyond \"politicians, journalists and diplomats\".\n\nThe Downtown Triangle includes two hotels. Kikar Zion Hotel (Zion Square Hotel), which faces Zion Square from the south, occupies the site of the former Zion Cinema that gave the square its name. The cinema was demolished in 1972 and a high-rise building containing the Kikar Zion Hotel (on the upper floors) and a branch of Bank Hapoalim (on the lower floors) was erected. As of 2016, the hotel is being renovated for reopening as the Herbert Samuel Hotel. On the northern side of Zion Square stands the Jerusalem Hostel. This lodging opened as the Tel Aviv Hotel in 1926 and later became known as the Ron Hotel. Menachem Begin stood on one of the hotel's balconies on 3 August 1948, to announce the dissolution of the Irgun and the sign-up of his soldiers with the Israel Defense Forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "53273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53273", "title": "Duke University", "text": "Duke University\n\nDuke University is a private research university in Durham, North Carolina. Founded by Methodists and Quakers in the present-day town of Trinity in 1838, the school moved to Durham in 1892. In 1924, tobacco and electric power industrialist James Buchanan Duke established The Duke Endowment and the institution changed its name to honor his deceased father, Washington Duke.\n\nDuke's campus spans over on three contiguous campuses in Durham as well as a marine lab in Beaufort. The main campus—designed largely by architect Julian Abele—incorporates Gothic architecture with the Duke Chapel at the campus' center and highest point of elevation. The first-year-populated East Campus contains Georgian-style architecture, while the main Gothic-style West Campus away is adjacent to the Medical Center. The university runs two concurrent universities in Asia, Duke Kunshan University in Kunshan, China, and Duke-NUS Medical School in Singapore.\n\nDuke is ranked 8th in the \"U.S. News & World Report\" Best Colleges Ranking and 22nd in the \"U.S. News & World Report\" Best Global University Ranking. In 2017, \"Forbes\" lists Duke among the top ten universities to \"produce the most Forbes 400 billionaires\". In a corporate study carried out by \"The New York Times\", Duke's graduates were shown to be among the most sought-after and valued in the world, and \"Forbes\" magazine ranked Duke 7th in the world on its list of 'power factories'.\n\n, 13 Nobel laureates and 3 Turing Award winners have been affiliated with the university. Further, Duke alumni include 40 Rhodes Scholars and 25 Churchill Scholars. The university has produced the 5th highest number of Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, Goldwater, and Udall Scholars of any American university between 1986 and 2015. In 2018, the \"Wall Street Journal\" ranked Duke first (tied with Harvard and Yale) for graduate outcomes. , Duke also holds a top-ten position in several national rankings.\n\nDuke started in 1838 as Brown's Schoolhouse, a private subscription school founded in Randolph County in the present-day town of Trinity. Organized by the Union Institute Society, a group of Methodists and Quakers, Brown's Schoolhouse became the Union Institute Academy in 1841 when North Carolina issued a charter. The academy was renamed Normal College in 1851 and then Trinity College in 1859 because of support from the Methodist Church. In 1892, Trinity College moved to Durham, largely due to generosity from Julian S. Carr and Washington Duke, powerful and respected Methodists who had grown wealthy through the tobacco and electrical industries. Carr donated land in 1892 for the original Durham campus, which is now known as East Campus. At the same time, Washington Duke gave the school $85,000 for an initial endowment and construction costs—later augmenting his generosity with three separate $100,000 contributions in 1896, 1899, and 1900—with the stipulation that the college \"open its doors to women, placing them on an equal footing with men.\"\n\nIn 1924 Washington Duke's son, James B. Duke, established The Duke Endowment with a $40 million trust fund. Income from the fund was to be distributed to hospitals, orphanages, the Methodist Church, and four colleges (including Trinity College). William Preston Few, the president of Trinity at the time, insisted that the institution be renamed Duke University to honor the family's generosity and to distinguish it from the myriad other colleges and universities carrying the \"Trinity\" name. At first, James B. Duke thought the name change would come off as self-serving, but eventually he accepted Few's proposal as a memorial to his father. Money from the endowment allowed the University to grow quickly. Duke's original campus, East Campus, was rebuilt from 1925 to 1927 with Georgian-style buildings. By 1930, the majority of the Collegiate Gothic-style buildings on the campus one mile (1.6 km) west were completed, and construction on West Campus culminated with the completion of Duke Chapel in 1935. \n\nIn 1878, Trinity (in Randolph County) awarded A.B. degrees to three sisters—Mary, Persis, and Theresa Giles—who had studied both with private tutors and in classes with men. With the relocation of the college in 1892, the Board of Trustees voted to again allow women to be formally admitted to classes as day students. At the time of Washington Duke's donation in 1896, which carried the requirement that women be placed \"on an equal footing with men\" at the college, four women were enrolled; three of the four were faculty members' children. In 1903 Washington Duke wrote to the Board of Trustees withdrawing the provision, noting that it had been the only limitation he had ever put on a donation to the college. A woman's residential dormitory was built in 1897 and named the Mary Duke Building, after Washington Duke's daughter. By 1904, fifty-four women were enrolled in the college. In 1930, the Woman's College was established as a coordinate to the men's undergraduate college, which had been established and named Trinity College in 1924.\n\nEngineering, which had been taught since 1903, became a separate school in 1939. In athletics, Duke hosted and competed in the only Rose Bowl ever played outside California in Wallace Wade Stadium in 1942. During World War II, Duke was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission. In 1963 the Board of Trustees officially desegregated the undergraduate college. Increased activism on campus during the 1960s prompted Martin Luther King Jr. to speak at the University in November 1964 on the progress of the Civil Rights Movement. Following Douglas Knight's resignation from the office of university president, Terry Sanford, the former governor of North Carolina, was elected president of the university in 1969, propelling The Fuqua School of Business' opening, the William R. Perkins library completion, and the founding of the Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs (now the Sanford School of Public Policy). The separate Woman's College merged back with Trinity as the liberal arts college for both men and women in 1972. Beginning in the 1970s, Duke administrators began a long-term effort to strengthen Duke's reputation both nationally and internationally. Interdisciplinary work was emphasized, as was recruiting minority faculty and students. During this time it also became the birthplace of the first Physician Assistant degree program in the United States. Duke University Hospital was finished in 1980 and the student union building was fully constructed two years later. In 1986 the men's soccer team captured Duke's first National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship, and the men's basketball team followed shortly thereafter with championships in 1991 and 1992, then again in 2001, 2010, and 2015.\n\nDuke's growth and academic focus have contributed to continuing the university's reputation as an academic and research powerhouse.\n\nIn 2013, Duke Kunshan University (DKU), a partnership between Duke University, Wuhan University, and the city of Kunshan was established in Kunshan, China. DKU blends liberal education with Chinese tradition in a new approach to elite higher education in China, in both undergraduate and graduate divisions. Students are awarded degrees from both Duke University and Duke Kunshan University upon graduation and become members of Duke and DKU's alumni organizations.\n\nDKU will conduct research projects on climate change, health-care policy and tuberculosis prevention and control.\n\nDuke and the National University of Singapore signed a formal agreement in April 2005 under which the two institutions would partner to establish a Duke-NUS Medical School in Singapore. Duke-NUS is intended to complement the National University of Singapore's existing undergraduate medical school, and had its first entering class in 2007. The school's curriculum is patterned after that of the Duke University School of Medicine. 60% of matriculates are from Singapore and 40% are from over 20 countries. The school is part of the National University of Singapore system, but unique in that it is overseen by a Governing Board, including a Duke representative who has veto power over any academic decision made by the Board.\n\nDuke Forward, a seven-year fundraising campaign, raised $3.85 billion through June 30, 2017. The record giving by more than 315,000 donors and foundations will enrich the student experience in and out of the classroom, invest in faculty and support research and initiatives. \n\nAmong academic achievements at Duke, three students were named Rhodes Scholars in both 2002 and 2006, a number surpassed only by Harvard in 2002 and the United States Military Academy in 2006. Overall, Duke has produced 46 Rhodes Scholars through 2015, including 24 between 1990 and 2015.\n\nAlso, the first working demonstration of an invisibility cloak was unveiled by Duke researchers in October 2006.\n\nIn 2006, three men's lacrosse team members were falsely accused of rape, which garnered significant media attention. On April 11, 2007, North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper dropped all charges and declared the three players innocent. Cooper stated that the charged players were victims of a \"tragic rush to accuse.\"\n\nThe university has \"historical, formal, ongoing, and symbolic ties\" with the United Methodist Church, but is a nonsectarian and independent institution.\n\nOn August 19, 2017, following the violent clashes at the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee was removed from the entrance to the Duke University Chapel, after having been vandalized by protesters.\n\nDuke is the second-largest private employer in North Carolina with more than 37,000 employed and is consistently ranked among the top places to work by multiple publications, including \"Forbes\" and \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\".\n\nDuke University owns 254 buildings on of land, which includes the Duke Forest. The campus is divided into four main areas: West, East, and Central campuses and the Medical Center, which are all connected via a free bus service. On the Atlantic coast in Beaufort, Duke owns as part of its marine lab. One of the major public attractions on the main campus is the Sarah P. Duke Gardens, established in the 1930s.\n\nDuke students often refer to the campus as \"the Gothic Wonderland\", a nickname referring to the Collegiate Gothic architecture of West Campus. Much of the campus was designed by Julian Abele, one of the first prominent African-American architects and the chief designer in the offices of architect Horace Trumbauer. The residential quadrangles are of an early and somewhat unadorned design, while the buildings in the academic quadrangles show influences of the more elaborate late French and Italian styles. The freshmen campus (East Campus) is composed of buildings in the Georgian architecture style. In 2011, Travel+Leisure listed Duke among the most beautiful college campuses in the United States.\n\nThe stone used for West Campus has seven primary colors and seventeen shades of color. The university supervisor of planning and construction wrote that the stone has \"an older, more attractive antique effect\" and a \"warmer and softer coloring than the Princeton stone\" that gave the university an \"artistic look.\" James B. Duke initially suggested the use of stone from a quarry in Princeton, New Jersey, but later amended the plans to purchase a local quarry in Hillsborough to reduce costs. Duke Chapel stands at the center of West Campus on the highest ridge. Constructed from 1930 to 1935, the chapel seats 1,600 people and, at is one of the tallest buildings in Durham County.\n\nA number of construction projects were in progress during 2015, including renovations to Duke Chapel, Wallace Wade Stadium (football) and Cameron Indoor Stadium (basketball).\n\nIn early 2014, the Nicholas School of the Environment opened a new home, Environmental Hall, a five-story, glass-and-concrete building that incorporates the highest sustainable features and technologies, and meets or exceeds the criteria for LEED platinum certification. The School of Nursing in April 2014 opened a new 45,000-square-foot addition to the Christine Siegler Pearson Building. In summer 2014, a number of construction projects were completed. The project is part of the final phase of renovations to Duke's West Campus libraries that have transformed one of the university's oldest and most recognizable buildings into a state-of-the-art research facility. The David M. Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library reopened in August 2015 after about $60 million in renovations to the sections of the building built in 1928 and 1948. The renovations include more space, technology upgrades and new exhibits.\n\nIn 2013, construction projects included transforming buildings like Gross Hall and Baldwin Auditorium, plus new construction such as the Events Pavilion. About 125,000 square feet was updated at Gross Hall, including new lighting and windows and a skylight. Baldwin's upgrades include a larger stage, more efficient air conditioning for performers and audience and enhanced acoustics that will allow for the space to be \"tuned\" to each individual performance. The 25,000-square-foot Events Pavilion opened to students in 2013 and serves as temporary dining space while the West Campus Union undergoes major renovations, expected to be completed in the spring of 2016.\nFrom February 2001 to November 2005, Duke spent $835 million on 34 major construction projects as part of a five-year strategic plan, \"Building on Excellence.\" Completed projects since 2002 include major additions to the business, law, nursing, and divinity schools, a new library, the Nasher Museum of Art, a football training facility, two residential buildings, an engineering complex, a public policy building, an eye institute, two genetic research buildings, a student plaza, the French Family Science Center, and two new medical-research buildings.\n\nIn early 2012, the Duke Cancer Center opened next to Duke Hospital in Durham. The patient care facility consolidates nearly all of Duke's outpatient clinical care services.\n\"See main article, Duke University West Campus\"\n\nWest Campus, considered the main campus of the University, houses the sophomores and juniors, along with some seniors. Most of the academic and administrative centers are located there. Main West Campus, with Duke Chapel at its center, contains the majority of residential quads to the south, while the main academic quad, library, and Medical Center are to the north. The campus, spanning , includes Science Drive, which is the location of science and engineering buildings. The residential quads on West Campus are Craven Quad, Crowell Quad, Edens Quad, Few Quad, Keohane Quad, Kilgo Quad, and Wannamaker Quad. Most of the campus eateries and sports facilities—including the historic basketball stadium, Cameron Indoor Stadium—are on West Campus.\n\nEast Campus, the original location of Duke after it moved to Durham, functions as a first-year campus, housing the university's freshmen dormitories as well as the home of several academic departments. Since the 1995–96 academic year, all freshmen—and only freshmen, except for upperclassmen serving as Resident Assistants—have lived on East Campus, an effort to build class unity. The campus encompasses and is from West Campus. African and African American Studies, Art History, History, Cultural Anthropology, Literature, Music, Philosophy, and Women's Studies are housed on East. Programs such as dance, drama, education, film, and the University Writing Program reside on East. The self-sufficient East Campus contains the freshmen residence halls, a dining hall, coffee shop, post office, Lilly Library, Baldwin Auditorium, a theater, Brodie Gym, tennis courts, several disc golf baskets, and a walking track as well as several academic buildings. The East Campus dorms are Alspaugh, Basset, Bell Tower, Blackwell, Brown, East House (formerly known as Aycock), Epworth, Gilbert-Addoms, Giles, Jarvis, Pegram, Randolph, Southgate, Trinity, and Wilson. Separated from downtown by a short walk, the area was the site of the Women's College from 1930 to 1972.\n\nCentral Campus, consisting of between East and West campuses, houses around 1,000 sophomores, juniors, and seniors, as well as around 200 professional students in double or quadruple apartments. There are 26 specific houses, accommodating 22 selective living groups (sororities and fraternities), 3 independent houses and 1 administrative house. Central Campus is home to the Nasher Museum of Art, the Freeman Center for Jewish Life, the Center for Muslim Life, the Duke Police Department, the Duke Office of Disability Management, a Ronald McDonald House, and administrative departments such as Duke Residence Life and Housing Services. Central Campus has several recreation and social facilities such as basketball courts, a sand volleyball court, a turf field, barbecue grills and picnic shelters, a general gathering building called \"Devil's Den\", a restaurant known as \"Devil's Bistro\", a convenience store called Uncle Harry's, and the Mill Village. The Mill Village consists of a gym and group study rooms.\n\n\"See main article,\" Duke Kunshan University#Campus\n\nLocated within the Kunshan Yangcheng Lake Science Park in China, the first phase of the DKU campus includes classroom and research spaces, student and faculty residences, dining facilities, an executive conference center, and recreation and leisure spaces. An innovation center is set to open in 2019. An expansive Phase II development will see the addition of numerous new residence halls, academic spaces, and student recreational facilities by 2021, with plans for Phases III and IV under way. The 200-acre site has a high water table, so designers elected to preserve 40 acres as community gardens. \n\nDuke Forest, established in 1931, consists of in six divisions, just west of West Campus. The largest private research forest in North Carolina and one of the largest in the nation, the Duke Forest demonstrates a variety of forest stand types and silvicultural treatments. Duke Forest is used extensively for research and includes the Aquatic Research Facility, Forest Carbon Transfer and Storage (FACTS-I) research facility, two permanent towers suitable for micrometerological studies, and other areas designated for animal behavior and ecosystem study. More than of trails are open to the public for hiking, cycling, and horseback riding.\n\nThe Duke Lemur Center, located inside the Duke Forest, is the world's largest sanctuary for rare and endangered strepsirrhine primates. Founded in 1966, the Duke Lemur Center spans and contains nearly 300 animals of 25 different species of lemurs, galagos and lorises.\nThe Sarah P. Duke Gardens, established in the early 1930s, is situated between West Campus and the apartments of Central Campus. The gardens occupy , divided into four major sections: the original Terraces and their surroundings; the H.L. Blomquist Garden of Native Plants, devoted to flora of the Southeastern United States; the W.L. Culberson Asiatic Arboretum, housing plants of Eastern Asia, as well as disjunct species found in Eastern Asia and Eastern North America; and the Doris Duke Center Gardens. There are of allées and paths throughout the gardens.\n\nDuke University Medical Center, bordering Duke's West Campus northern boundary, combines one of the top-rated hospitals and one of the top-ranked medical schools in the U.S. Founded in 1930, the Medical Center occupies 8 million square feet (700,000 m²) in 99 buildings on .\n\nDuke University Marine Laboratory, located in the town of Beaufort, North Carolina, is also technically part of Duke's campus. The marine lab is situated on Pivers Island on the Outer Banks of North Carolina, across the channel from Beaufort. Duke's interest in the area began in the early 1930s and the first buildings were erected in 1938. The resident faculty represent the disciplines of oceanography, marine biology, marine biomedicine, marine biotechnology, and coastal marine policy and management. The Marine Laboratory is a member of the National Association of Marine Laboratories. In May 2014, the newly built Orrin H. Pilkey Marine Research Laboratory was dedicated.\n\nDuke University has 12 schools and institutes, three of which host undergraduate programs: Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, Pratt School of Engineering, and Duke Kunshan University.\n\nDuke's endowment had a market value of $7.9 billion in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2017. The University's special academic facilities include an art museum, several language labs, the Duke Forest, the Duke Herbarium, a lemur center, a phytotron, a free electron laser, a nuclear magnetic resonance machine, a nuclear lab, and a marine lab. Duke is a leading participant in the National Lambda Rail Network and runs a program for gifted children known as the Talent Identification Program.\n\nAdmission to Duke is defined by \"U.S. News & World Report\" as \"most selective.\" Duke received 37,302 applications for the Class of 2022, an 8% increase in applications comparable to that of peer institutions like Harvard and Yale. The yield rate (the percentage of accepted students who choose to attend) for the Class of 2020 was 50.4%. For the Class of 2021, the Trinity School of Arts and Science had an ACT range of 31-35 and an SAT range of 1440-1570, and the Pratt School of Engineering had an ACT range of 33-35 and an SAT range of 1490-1570. (Test score ranges account for the 25th-75th percentile of accepted students.)\n\nFrom 2001 to 2011, Duke has had the sixth highest number of Fulbright, Rhodes, Truman, and Goldwater scholarships in the nation among private universities. The University practices need-blind admissions and meets 100% of admitted students' demonstrated need. About 50 percent of all Duke students receive some form of financial aid, which includes need-based aid, athletic aid, and merit aid. The average need-based grant for the 2015–16 academic year was nearly $45,074.\n\nRoughly 60 merit-based full tuition scholarships are offered, including the Angier B. Duke Memorial Scholarship awarded for academic excellence, the Benjamin N. Duke Scholarship awarded for community service, and the Robertson Scholars Leadership Program, a joint scholarship and leadership development program granting full student privileges at both Duke and UNC-Chapel Hill. Other scholarships are geared toward students in North Carolina, African-American students, children of alumni, and high-achieving students requiring financial aid.\n\nIn 2009, the School of Medicine received 5,166 applications and accepted approximately 4% of them, while the average GPA and MCAT scores for accepted students from 2002 through 2009 were 3.74 and 34, respectively. The School of Law accepted approximately 13% of its applicants for the Class of 2014, while enrolling students had a median GPA of 3.75 and median LSAT of 170.\n\nThe University's graduate and professional schools include the Graduate School, the Pratt School of Engineering, the Nicholas School of the Environment, the School of Medicine, the Duke-NUS Medical School, the School of Nursing, the Fuqua School of Business, the School of Law, the Divinity School, and the Sanford School of Public Policy.\n\nDuke offers 46 arts and sciences majors, four engineering majors, 52 Minors (including two in engineering) and Program II, which allows students to design their own interdisciplinary major in arts & sciences, and IDEAS, which allows students to design their own engineering major. Twenty-four certificate programs also are available. Students pursue a major, and can pursue a combination of a total of up to three including minors, certificates, and/or a second major. Eighty-five percent of undergraduates enroll in the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, while the rest are in the Pratt School of Engineering.\n\nTrinity's curriculum operates under the revised version of \"Curriculum 2000.\" It ensures that students are exposed to a variety of \"areas of knowledge\" and \"modes of inquiry.\" The curriculum aims to help students develop critical faculties and judgment by learning how to access, synthesize, and communicate knowledge effectively. The intent is to assist students in acquiring perspective on current and historical events, conducting research and solving problems, and developing tenacity and a capacity for hard and sustained work. Freshmen can elect to participate in the FOCUS Program, which allows students to engage in an interdisciplinary exploration of a specific topic in a small group setting.\n\nPratt's curriculum is narrower in scope, but still accommodates double majors in a variety of disciplines. The school emphasizes undergraduate research—opportunities for hands-on experiences arise through internships, fellowship programs, and the structured curriculum. More than 27 percent of Pratt undergraduates study abroad, small compared to about half of Trinity undergraduates, but much larger than the recent national average for engineering students (3.2%).\n\nDuke Libraries includes the Perkins, Bostock, and Rubenstein Libraries on West Campus, the Lilly and Music Libraries on East Campus, the Pearse Memorial Library at the Duke Marine Lab, and the separately administered libraries serving the schools of business, divinity, law and medicine.\n\nDuke's art collections are housed at the Nasher Museum of Art on Central Campus. The museum was designed by Rafael Viñoly and is named for Duke alumnus and art collector Raymond Nasher. The museum opened in 2005 at a cost of over $23 million and contains over 13,000 works of art, including works by William Cordova, Marlene Dumas, Olafur Eliasson, David Hammons, Barkley L. Hendricks, Christian Marclay, Kerry James Marshall, Alma Thomas, Hank Willis Thomas, Bob Thompson, Kara Walker, Andy Warhol, Carrie Mae Weems, Ai Weiwei, Fred Wilson, and Lynette Yiadom Boakye.\n\nDuke's research expenditures in the 2015 fiscal year were $1.037 billion, the seventh largest in the nation. In the 2013 fiscal year, Duke University Medical Center received $270 million in funding from the National Institutes of Health (exclusive of contracts and Economic Stimulus Program awards).\n\nDuke's faculty is among the most productive in the nation. Throughout the school's history, Duke researchers have made breakthroughs, including the biomedical engineering department's development of the world's first real-time, three-dimensional ultrasound diagnostic system and the first engineered blood vessels and stents. In 2015, Paul Modrich shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. In 2012, Robert Lefkowitz along with Brian Kobilka, who is also a former affiliate, shared the Nobel Prize in chemistry for their work on cell surface receptors. Duke has pioneered studies involving nonlinear dynamics, chaos, and complex systems in physics. \n\nIn May 2006 Duke researchers mapped the final human chromosome, which made world news as the Human Genome Project was finally complete. Reports of Duke researchers' involvement in new AIDS vaccine research surfaced in June 2006. The biology department combines two historically strong programs in botany and zoology, while one of the divinity school's leading theologians is Stanley Hauerwas, whom \"Time\" named \"America's Best Theologian\" in 2001. The graduate program in literature boasts several internationally renowned figures, including Fredric Jameson, Michael Hardt, and Rey Chow, while philosophers Robert Brandon and Lakatos Award-winner Alexander Rosenberg contribute to Duke's ranking as the nation's best program in philosophy of biology, according to the \"Philosophical Gourmet Report\".\n\nThe Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index ranked Duke's faculty first in the nation in the fields of Oncology and Cancer Biology, Biomedical Engineering and Applied Economics. The Public Policy, Statistics, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Medicine and Molecular Genetics departments (among others) all ranked in the top five. Several other departments including Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Nursing ranked in the top ten.\n\nDuke University is ranked in the top 10 in the following college ranking publications: \"U.S. News & World Report\" (8th), \"USA Today\" (3rd),\"Washington Monthly\" (6th), Kiplinger (4th), The Wall Street Journal \"Student Outcomes\" (1st), \"The Wall Street Journal\" (7th), Forbes (10th), Forbes (9th most billionaires), \"The Washington Post\" (7th), Princeton Review (5th dream colleges), CollegeFactual (3rd) and \"Business Insider\" (7th). In the past twenty years, \"U.S. News & World Report\" has placed Duke as high as 3rd and as low as 10th. In 2014, Duke was ranked 1st in the United States for majors in psychology, and 10th overall for computer science and engineering. In 2014 and 2018, Duke was ranked 1st in the United States for majors in economics. In 2016, \"The Washington Post\" ranked Duke 7th overall based on the accumulated weighted average of the rankings from \"U.S. News & World Report\", \"Washington Monthly\", \"Wall Street Journal\"/\"Times Higher Education\", \"Times Higher Education\" (global), \"Money\" and \"Forbes\".\n\nIn 2016–17, Duke was ranked 19th in the world by \"U.S. News & World Report\", 17th in the world by the \"Times Higher Education World University Rankings\", 14th in the world by \"Newsweek\". \"QS World University Rankings\" ranked Duke 21st in the world for its 2017–18 rankings. Duke was ranked 25th best globally by the \"Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU)\" in 2016, focusing on quality of scientific research and the number of Nobel Prizes.The university also ranks 22nd in the world on the alternative Academic Ranking of World Universities which excludes Nobel Prize and Fields Medal indicators. The 2010 report by the \"Center for Measuring University Performance\" puts Duke at 6th in the nation.\n\nThe 2011 Global Employability Ranking as published by \"The New York Times\" surveyed hundreds of chief executives and chairmen from around the world and asked them to select the best universities from which they recruited. Duke placed 13th in the world and 9th in the country. Duke also ranked 18th in the world and 8th in the country on \"Times Higher Education\"s global employability ranking in 2015.\n\nIn 2013, Duke enrolled 139 National Merit Scholars, the 6th university in rank by number. Duke ranks 5th among national universities to have produced Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, Goldwater, and Udall Scholars. , Duke graduates have received 25 Churchill Scholarships to the University of Cambridge. Only graduates of Princeton and Harvard have received more Churchill awards. \"Kiplinger\"s \"50 Best Values in Private Universities 2013–14\" ranks Duke at 5th best overall after taking financial aid into consideration.\n\nAccording to a study by \"Forbes\", Duke ranks 11th among universities that have produced billionaires and 1st among universities in the South. A survey by the \"Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\" in 2002 ranked Duke as the #1 university in the country in regard to the integration of African American students and faculty. According to a poll of recruiters conducted by \"The Wall Street Journal\", Duke ranks 2nd in terms of producing the best graduates who have received either a marketing or liberal arts degree. In a corporate study carried out by \"The New York Times\", Duke's graduates were shown to be among the most valued in the world, and \"Forbes\" magazine ranked Duke 7th in the world on its list of 'power factories' in 2012. Duke was ranked 17th on Thomson Reuters' list of the world's most innovative universities in 2015. The ranking graded universities based on patent volume and research output among other factors. In 2015, NPR ranked Duke first on its list of \"schools that make financial sense\". Time\" magazine\" ranked Duke third on its list of the \"Best 50 Colleges for African Americans\". The ranking was based on representation, affordability and post-graduate earnings. In 2016, \"Forbes\" ranked Duke sixth on its list of \"Expensive Schools Worth Every Penny\". Duke also ranked 5th in the U.S. on the \"Wall Street Journal\"/\"Times Higher Education\" College Ranking in 2017.\n\nIn \"U.S. News & World Report\"s \"America's Best Graduate Schools 2018\", Duke's medical school ranked tied for 7th in research and 34th in primary care. The School of Law was ranked 10th in the 2018 rankings by the same publication, with Duke's nursing school ranked 1st while the Sanford School of Public Policy ranked tied for 13th overall for 2017.\nAmong business schools in the United States, the Fuqua School of Business was ranked tied for 12th overall by \"U.S. News & World Report\" for 2018, while \"BusinessWeek\" ranked its full-time MBA program 1st in the nation in 2014. The graduate program for the Pratt School of Engineering was ranked 30th in the U.S. by \"U.S. News & World Report\" in its 2017 rankings.\n\n\"Times Higher Education\" ranked the mathematics department tenth in the world in 2011. Duke's graduate level specialties that are ranked among the top ten in the nation include areas in the following departments: biological sciences, medicine, nursing, engineering, law, business, English, history, physics, statistics, public affairs, physician assistant (ranked #1), clinical psychology, political science, and sociology. In 2007, Duke was ranked 22nd in the world by Wuhan University's Research Center for Chinese Science Evaluation. The ranking was based on journal article publication counts and citation frequencies in over 11,000 academic journals from around the world. A 2012 study conducted by academic analytics ranks Duke fourth in the nation (behind only Harvard, Stanford, and MIT) in terms of faculty productivity. In 2013, Duke Law ranked 6th in \"Forbes\" magazine's ranking of law schools whose graduates earn the highest starting salaries. In 2013, Duke's Fuqua School of Business was ranked 6th in terms of graduate starting salaries by \"U.S. News & World Report\". In the same year, a ranking compiled by the University of Texas at Dallas ranked Fuqua 5th in the world based on the research productivity of its faculty. The MEM (Masters in Engineering Management) program has been ranked 3rd in the world by Eduniversal In 2013, \"Forbes\" ranked Duke 4th in the nation in terms of return on investment (ROI). The ranking used alumni giving as a criterion to determine which private colleges offer the best returns. In 2018, Above the Law ranked Duke Law 3rd in the nation in its ranking of law schools based on employment outcomes. In 2013, \"Business Insider\" ranked Duke's Fuqua School of Business 5th in the world based on an extensive survey of hiring professionals. In the same year, \"Forbes\" magazine ranked Fuqua 8th in the country based on return on investment. In 2014, Duke was named the 20th best global research university according to rankings published by \"U.S. News & World Report\" and the University Ranking by Academic Performance published by Middle East Technical University. The \"U.S. News\" ranking was based on 10 indicators that measure academic research performance and global reputations. The University Ranking by Academic Performance uses citation data obtained from Thomson Reuters' Web of Science to rank universities based on research output.\n\nDuke's student body consists of 6,994 undergraduates and 8,898 graduate and professional students (as of fall 2018).\n\nDuke requires its students to live on campus for the first three years of undergraduate life, except for a small percentage of second-semester juniors who are exempted by a lottery system. This requirement is justified by the administration as an effort to help students connect more closely with one another and sustain a sense of belonging within the Duke community. Thus, 85% of undergraduates live on campus. All freshmen are housed in one of 14 residences on East Campus. These buildings range in occupancy size from 50 (Epworth—the oldest residence hall, built in 1892 as \"the Inn\") to 250 residents (Trinity). Most of these are in the Georgian style typical of the East Campus architecture. Although the newer residence halls differ in style, they still relate to East's Georgian heritage. Learning communities connect the residential component of East Campus with students of similar academic and social interests. Similarly, students in FOCUS, a first-year program that features courses clustered around a specific theme, live together in the same residence hall as other students in their cluster.\n\nSophomores, juniors and seniors can choose to reside on either West or Central campuses, although the majority of undergraduate seniors choose to live off campus. West Campus contains six quadrangles—the four along \"Main\" West were built in 1930s, while two newer ones have since been added. Central Campus provides housing for over 1,000 students in apartment buildings. All housing on West and Central is organized into about 80 \"houses\"—sections of residence halls or clusters of apartments—to which students can return each year. House residents create their house identities. There are houses of unaffiliated students, as well as wellness houses and living-learning communities that adopt a theme such as the arts or foreign languages. There are also numerous \"selective living groups\" on campus for students wanting self-selected living arrangements. SLGs are residential groups similar to fraternities or sororities, except they are generally co-ed and unaffiliated with any national organization. Many of them also revolve around a particular interest such as entrepreneurship, civic engagement or African-American or Asian culture. Fifteen fraternities and nine sororities also are housed on campus, primarily on Central. Most of the non-fraternity selective living groups are coeducational.\n\nAbout 30% of undergraduate men and about 40% of undergraduate women at Duke are members of fraternities and sororities. Most of the 17 Interfraternity Council recognized fraternity chapters live in sections within the residence halls. Starting in 2012, the nine (now ten) Panhellenic Association sorority chapters decided to live in houses (clusters of apartments) on Central Campus. Not all sorority members live with their chapters, though, as membership exceeds house space. Eight National Pan-Hellenic Council (historically African American) fraternities and sororities also hold chapters at Duke. The first historically African American Greek letter organization at Duke University was the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc., Omega Zeta Chapter, founded on April 12, 1974. In addition, there are seven other fraternities and sororities that are a part of the Inter-Greek Council, the multicultural Greek umbrella organization. Duke also has Selective Living Groups, or SLGs, on campus for students seeking informal residential communities often built around themes. SLGs are residential groups similar to fraternities or sororities, except they are generally co-ed and unaffiliated with any national organizations. Fraternity chapters and SLGs frequently host social events in their residential sections, which are often open to non-members.\n\nIn the late 1990s, a new keg policy was put into effect that requires all student groups to purchase kegs through Duke Dining Services. According to administrators, the rule change was intended as a way to ensure compliance with alcohol consumption laws as well as to increase on-campus safety. Some students saw the administration's increasingly strict policies as an attempt to alter social life at Duke. As a result, off-campus parties at rented houses became more frequent in subsequent years as a way to avoid Duke policies. Many of these houses were situated in the midst of family neighborhoods, prompting residents to complain about excessive noise and other violations. Police have responded by breaking up parties at several houses, handing out citations, and occasionally arresting party-goers. In the mid-to-late 2000s (decade), the administration made a concerted effort to help students re-establish a robust, on-campus social life and has worked with numerous student groups, especially the Duke University Union, to feature a wide array of events and activities. In March 2006, the university purchased 15 houses in the Trinity Park area that Duke students had typically rented and subsequently sold them to individual families in an effort to encourage renovations to the properties and to reduce off-campus partying in the midst of residential neighborhoods.\n\nDuke athletics, particularly men's basketball, traditionally serves as a significant component of student life. Duke's students have been recognized as some of the most creative and original fans in all of collegiate athletics. Students, often referred to as Cameron Crazies, show their support of the men's basketball team by \"tenting\" for home games against key Atlantic Coast Conference rivals, especially University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). Because tickets to all varsity sports are free to students, they line up for hours before each game, often spending the night on the sidewalk. For a mid-February game against UNC, some of the most eager students might even begin tenting before spring classes begin. The total number of participating tents is capped at 100 (each tent can have up to 12 occupants), though interest is such that it could exceed that number if space permitted. Tenting involves setting up and inhabiting a tent on the grass near Cameron Indoor Stadium, an area known as Krzyzewskiville, or K-Ville for short. There are different categories of tenting based on the length of time and number of people who must be in the tent. At night, K-Ville often turns into the scene of a party or occasional concert. The men's basketball coach, Mike Krzyzewski, occasionally buys pizza for the inhabitants of the tent village.\n\nMore than 400 student clubs and organizations operate on Duke's campus. These include numerous student government, special interest, and service organizations. Duke Student Government (DSG) charters and provides most of the funding for other student groups and represents students' interests when dealing with the administration. The Duke University Union (DUU) is the school's primary programming organization, serving a center of social, cultural, intellectual and recreational life. Cultural groups are provided funding directly from the university via the Multicultural Center as well as other institutional funding sources. One of the most popular activities on campus is competing in sports. Duke has 37 sports clubs, and several intramural teams that are officially recognized. Performance groups such as Hoof 'n' Horn, the country's second-oldest student-run musical theater organization, a cappella groups, student bands, and theater organizations are also prominent on campus. As of the 2016–2017 school year, there are seven a cappella groups recognized by the Duke University A Cappella Council: Deja Blue, Lady Blue, Out of the Blue, the Pitchforks, Rhythm & Blue, Something Borrowed Something Blue, and Speak of the Devil. The Duke University mock trial team won the national championship in 2012. The Duke University Student Dining Advisory Committee provides guidance to the administration on issues regarding student dining, life, and restaurant choices.\n\nCultural groups on campus include the Asian Students Association, Blue Devils United (the student lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender group), Black Student Alliance, Diya (South Asian Association), Jewish Life at Duke, Mi Gente (Latino Student Association), International Association/International Council, Muslim Student Association, Native American Student Coalition, Newman Catholic Student Center, Languages Dorm, and Students of the Caribbean.\n\nMore than 75 percent of Duke students pursue service-learning opportunities in Durham and around the world through DukeEngage and other programs that advance the university's mission of \"knowledge in service to society.\" Launched in 2007, DukeEngage provides full funding for select Duke undergraduates who wish to pursue an immersive summer of service in partnership with a U.S. or international community. As of summer 2013, more than 2,400 Duke students had volunteered through DukeEngage in 75 nations on six continents. Duke students have created more than 30 service organizations in Durham and the surrounding area. Examples include a weeklong camp for children of cancer patients (Camp Kesem) and a group that promotes awareness about sexual health, rape prevention, alcohol and drug use, and eating disorders (Healthy Devils). The Duke-Durham Neighborhood Partnership, started by the Office of Community Affairs in 1996, attempts to address major concerns of local residents and schools by leveraging university resources. Another community project, \"Scholarship with a Civic Mission\", is a joint program between the Hart Leadership Program and the Kenan Institute for Ethics. Another program includes Project CHILD, a tutoring program involving 80 first-year volunteers; and an after-school program for at-risk students in Durham that was started with $2.25 million grant from the Kellogg Foundation in 2002. Two prominent civic engagement pre-orientation programs also exist for incoming freshmen: Project CHANGE and Project BUILD. Project CHANGE is a free weeklong program co-sponsored by the Kenan Institute for Ethics and the Duke Women's Center with the focus on ethical leadership and social change in the Durham community; students are challenged in a variety of ways and work closely with local non-profits. Project BUILD is a freshman volunteering group that dedicates 3,300 hours of service to a variety of projects such as schools, Habitat for Humanity, food banks, substance rehabilitation centers, homeless shelters. Some courses at Duke incorporate service as part of the curriculum to augment material learned in class such as in psychology or education courses (known as service learning courses).\n\n\"The Chronicle\", Duke's independent undergraduate daily newspaper, has been continually published since 1905 and now, along with its website, has a readership of about 70,000. Its editors are responsible for selecting the term \"Blue Devil\". The newspaper won Best in Show in the tabloid division at the 2005 Associated Collegiate Press National College Media Convention. Cable 13, established in 1976, is Duke's student-run television station. It is a popular activity for students interested in film production and media. WXDU, licensed in 1983, is the university's nationally recognized, noncommercial FM radio station, operated by student and community volunteers.\n\n\"The Rival Duke\" is an online-only, student run publication. The three sections, campus, culture, and current, feature opinion and commentary.\n\nDuke Alumni Association (DAA) is an alumni association automatically available to all Duke graduates. Benefits include alumni events, a global network of regional DAA alumni chapters, educational and travel opportunities and communications such as The Blue Note, social media and \"Duke Magazine\". It provides access to the Duke Lemur Center, Nasher Museum of Art, Duke Rec Centers and other campus facilities.\n\nDuke Magazine, an alumni magazine, is the university's flagship vehicle for stories about the Duke community. It has been published five-six times a year by the Office of Alumni Affairs since 2002.\n\nThe Duke University Athletic Association chairs 27 sports and more than 650 student-athletes. The Blue Devils are members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I level, the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and Atlantic Coast Conference. Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, fencing, football, golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and wrestling; women's sports include basketball, cross country, fencing, field hockey, golf, lacrosse, rowing, soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and volleyball.\n\nDuke's teams have won 16 NCAA team national championships—the women's golf team has won six (1999, 2002, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2014), the men's basketball team has won five (1991, 1992, 2001, 2010, and 2015), the men's lacrosse team has won three (2010, 2013, and 2014), and the men's soccer (1986) and women's tennis (2009) teams have won one each. Duke consistently ranks among the top in the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA) Directors' Cup, an overall measure of an institution's athletic success. For Division I in 2015, Duke finished 20th overall and fifth in the ACC. The Blue Devils have finished within the top 10 six times since the inception of the Cup in 1993–94. Also, Athletic Director Kevin White earned multiple awards in 2014, including the National Football Foundation's John L. Toner Award.\n\nOn the academic front, nine Duke varsity athletics programs registered a perfect 1,000 score in the NCAA's multi-year Academic Progress Report (APR) released in April 2016.\n\nDuke's men's basketball team is one of the nation's most successful basketball programs. The team's success has been particularly outstanding over the past 30 years under coach Mike Krzyzewski (often simply called \"Coach K\"). The Blue Devils are the only team to win five national championships since the NCAA Tournament field was expanded to 64 teams in 1985, 11 Final Fours in the past 25 years, and eight of nine ACC tournament championships from 1999 to 2006. Duke's 2017 NCAA tournament appearance ended in an upset to the University of South Carolina. Coach K has also coached the USA men's national basketball team since 2006 and led the team to Olympic golds in 2008, 2012, and 2016. His teams also won World Championship gold in 2010 and 2014. Overall, 32 Duke players have been selected in the first round of the NBA Draft in the Coach K era. More than 50 Duke players have been selected in the NBA Draft.\n\nThe Blue Devils have won seven ACC Football Championships, have had ten players honored as ACC Player of the Year (the most in the ACC), and have had three Pro Football Hall of Famers come through the program (second in the ACC to only Miami's four). The Blue Devils have produced 11 College Football Hall of Famers, which is tied for the 2nd most in the ACC. Duke has also won 18 total conference championships (7 ACC, 9 Southern Conference, and 1 Big Five Conference). That total is tied with Clemson for the highest in the ACC.\n\nThe most famous Duke football season came in 1938, when Wallace Wade coached the \"Iron Dukes\" that shut out all regular season opponents; only three teams in history can claim such a feat. That same year, Duke made their first Rose Bowl appearance, where they lost 7–3 when USC scored a touchdown in the final minute of the game. Wade's Blue Devils lost another Rose Bowl to Oregon State in 1942, this one held at Duke's home stadium due to the attack on Pearl Harbor, which resulted in the fear that a large gathering on the West Coast might be in range of Japanese aircraft carriers. The football program proved successful in the 1950s and 1960s, winning six of the first ten ACC football championships from 1953 to 1962 under coach Bill Murray; the Blue Devils would not win the ACC championship again until 1989 under coach Steve Spurrier.\n\nDavid Cutcliffe was brought in prior to the 2008 season, and amassed more wins in his first season than the previous three years combined. The 2009 team won 5 of 12 games, and was eliminated from bowl contention in the next-to-last game of the season. Mike MacIntyre, the defensive coordinator, was named 2009 Assistant Coach of the Year by the American Football Coaches Association (AFCA).\n\nWhile the football team has struggled at times on the field, the graduation rate of its players is consistently among the highest among Division I FBS schools. Duke's high graduation rates have earned it more AFCA Academic Achievement Awards than any other institution.\n\nFor the 2014 season, Duke finished 9–3, 5–3 (ACC) and earned a trip to the Sun Bowl, where the Blue Devils lost to the Pac-12's Arizona State 36–31. In 2015, the Detroit Lions drafted Duke offensive guard Laken Tomlinson and the Washington Redskins drafted wide receiver Jamison Crowder.\n\nIn 2003 Norm Ogilvie was promoted to Director of Track and Field, and has led athletes to over 60 individual ACC championships, and 81 All-America selections, along with most of the track and field records being broken during his tenure. A new facility, the Morris Williams Track and Field Stadium, opened in 2015.\n\nDuke's active alumni base of more than 145,000 devote themselves to the university through organizations and events such as the annual Reunion Weekend and Homecoming. There are 75 Duke clubs in the U.S. and 38 such international clubs. For the 2008–09 fiscal year, Duke tied for third in alumni giving rate among U.S. colleges and universities according to \"U.S. News & World Report\". Based on statistics compiled by PayScale in 2011, Duke alumni rank seventh in mid-career median salary among all U.S. colleges and universities. A number of alumni have made significant contributions in the fields of government, law, science, academia, business, arts, journalism, and athletics, among others.\n\nRichard Nixon, 37th President of the United States graduated with a law degree in 1937. Former U.S. Senator and Secretary of Transportation Elizabeth Dole, 33rd President of Chile Ricardo Lagos, former U.S. Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps, congressman and three-time presidential candidate Ron Paul, U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs and former Chief of Staff of the United States Army Eric Shinseki, and the first United States Chief Performance Officer Jeffrey Zients and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin Dempsey are among the most notable alumni with involvement in politics and government. Sheikha Al-Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani Chairperson of Qatar Museum Authority.\n\nDuke graduates who have won the Nobel Prize in Physics include Hans Dehmelt for his development of the ion trap technique, Robert Richardson for his discovery of superfluidity in helium-3, and Charles Townes for his work on quantum electronics. Other alumni in research and academia include Turing Award winners Fred Brooks, Edmund M. Clarke and John Cocke, Templeton Prize winning physicist and religion scholar Ian Barbour, MacArthur Award recipient Paul Farmer, and former Dean of the Graduate School at Princeton Theodore Ziolkowski.\nDuke professor Robert J. Lefkowitz shared the 2012 Nobel Prize in Chemistry and Ingrid Daubechies, currently a James B. Duke professor of mathematics, served as the first woman president of the International Mathematical Union and is known for pioneering work on Wavelets.\n\nProminent journalists include talk show host Charlie Rose, \"The Washington Post\" sports writer John Feinstein, Chief Washington Correspondent for CNBC and \"The Wall Street Journal\" writer John Harwood, CBS News President Sean McManus, chief legal correspondent for \"Good Morning America\" Dan Abrams, and CNN anchor and senior correspondent for \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\" Judy Woodruff. Basketball analysts and commentators include Jay Bilas, Mike Gminski, Jim Spanarkel, and Jay Williams. Magazine editors include Rik Kirkland of \"Fortune\" and Clay Felker, founder of \"New York Magazine.\"\n\nIn the area of literature, William Styron won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1968 for his novel \"The Confessions of Nat Turner\" and is well known for his 1979 novel \"Sophie's Choice.\" Anne Tyler also received the Pulitzer Prize for her 1988 novel \"Breathing Lessons\". Additionally, Elizabeth A. Fenn won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 2015. Other acclaimed writers include John W. Campbell and Reynolds Price.\n\nIn the visual arts realm, Annabeth Gish (actress in the \"X-Files\" and \"The West Wing\"), Ken Jeong (actor in \"The Hangover\" and \"Community\"), Retta (actress and comedian), Jared Harris (actor in \"Mad Men\"), Randall Wallace (screenwriter, producer, and director, \"Braveheart\", \"Pearl Harbor\", \"We Were Soldiers\"), Mike Posner (singer, songwriter, and producer, \"Cooler Than Me\", \"Please Don't Go\", \"I Took A Pill in Ibiza\"), David Hudgins (television writer and producer, \"Everwood\", \"Friday Night Lights\") and Robert Yeoman (cinematographer, \"The Grand Budapest Hotel\") headline the list.\n\nThe current or recent president, CEO, or chairman of each of the following Fortune 500 companies is a Duke alumnus: Apple (Tim Cook), BB&T (John A. Allison IV), Boston Scientific Corporation (Peter Nicholas), Chesapeake Energy (Aubrey McClendon), Cisco Systems (John Chambers), General Motors (Rick Wagoner), JPMorgan Chase (Steven Black), Medtronic (William A. Hawkins), Morgan Stanley (John J. Mack), Norfolk Southern (David R. Goode), Northwest Airlines (Gary L. Wilson), PepsiCo (Karl von der Heyden), Procter & Gamble (David S. Taylor), Pfizer (Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.), The Bank of New York Mellon (Gerald Hassell), and Wachovia (Robert K. Steel). Kevin Martin was Chairman of the FCC, and Rex Adams serves as the Chairman of PBS. Another alumna, Melinda Gates, is the co-founder of the $31.9 billion Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the nation's wealthiest charitable foundation. Some startups founded by Duke alumni include Box (Dylan Smith), Yext (Howard Lerman), and Coinbase (Fred Ehrsam).\n\nManagement and ownership of professional athletic franchises include Adam Silver (NBA commissioner), John P. Angelos (Executive Vice President of the Baltimore Orioles), Aubrey McClendon (former part owner of the Oklahoma City Thunder), John Canning, Jr. (co-owner of Milwaukee Brewers), Danny Ferry (former general manager of the Cleveland Cavaliers), Stephen Pagliuca (co-owner of Boston Celtics), and Jeffrey Vinik (owner of the Tampa Bay Lightning).\n\nSeveral athletes have become stars at the professional level, especially in basketball's NBA. Art Heyman, Shane Battier, Corey Maggette, Elton Brand, Carlos Boozer, Luol Deng, Christian Laettner, Bobby Hurley, Grant Hill, Kyrie Irving and J. J. Redick are among the most famous. Offensive linesman Lennie Friedman played for four National Football League teams, and Ed Newman was an All-Pro offensive lineman.\n\nMen's basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski led the US men's team to three gold medals (2008, 2012, 2016), and Abigail Johnston won a silver medal in synchronized diving at the 2012 Olympic Games while an undergraduate at Duke and competed in the 2016 Olympic Games while attending Duke Medical School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "855850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855850", "title": "Extrusion", "text": "Extrusion\n\nExtrusion is a process used to create objects of a fixed cross-sectional profile. A material is pushed through a die of the desired cross-section. The two main advantages of this process over other manufacturing processes are its ability to create very complex cross-sections, and to work materials that are brittle, because the material only encounters compressive and shear stresses. It also forms parts with an excellent surface finish.\n\nDrawing is a similar process, which uses the tensile strength of the material to pull it through the die. This limits the amount of change which can be performed in one step, so it is limited to simpler shapes, and multiple stages are usually needed. Drawing is the main way to produce wire. Metal bars and tubes are also often drawn.\n\nExtrusion may be continuous (theoretically producing indefinitely long material) or semi-continuous (producing many pieces). The extrusion process can be done with the material hot or cold. Commonly extruded materials include metals, polymers, ceramics, concrete, modelling clay, and foodstuffs. The products of extrusion are generally called \"extrudates\".\n\nAlso referred to as \"hole flanging\", hollow cavities within extruded material cannot be produced using a simple flat extrusion die, because there would be no way to support the centre barrier of the die. Instead, the die assumes the shape of a block with depth, beginning first with a shape profile that supports the center section. The die shape then internally changes along its length into the final shape, with the suspended center pieces supported from the back of the die. The material flows around the supports and fuses together to create the desired closed shape.\n\nThe extrusion process in metals may also increase the strength of the material.\n\nIn 1797, Joseph Bramah patented the first extrusion process for making pipe out of soft metals. It involved preheating the metal and then forcing it through a die via a hand-driven plunger. In 1820 Thomas Burr implemented that process for lead pipe, with a hydraulic press (also invented by Joseph Bramah). At that time the process was called \"squirting\". In 1894, Alexander Dick expanded the extrusion process to copper and brass alloys.\n\nThe process begins by heating the stock material (for hot or warm extrusion). It is then loaded into the container in the press. A dummy block is placed behind it where the ram then presses on the material to push it out of the die. Afterward the extrusion is stretched in order to straighten it. If better properties are required then it may be heat treated or cold worked.\n\nThe extrusion ratio is defined as the starting cross-sectional area divided by the cross-sectional area of the final extrusion. One of the main advantages of the extrusion process is that this ratio can be very large while still producing quality parts.\n\nHot extrusion is a hot working process, which means it is done above the material's recrystallization temperature to keep the material from work hardening and to make it easier to push the material through the die. Most hot extrusions are done on horizontal hydraulic presses that range from . Pressures range from , therefore lubrication is required, which can be oil or graphite for lower temperature extrusions, or glass powder for higher temperature extrusions. The biggest disadvantage of this process is its cost for machinery and its upkeep.\n\nThe extrusion process is generally economical when producing between several kilograms (pounds) and many tons, depending on the material being extruded. There is a crossover point where roll forming becomes more economical. For instance, some steels become more economical to roll if producing more than 20,000 kg (50,000 lb).\n\nCold extrusion is done at room temperature or near room temperature. The advantages of this over hot extrusion are the lack of oxidation, higher strength due to cold working, closer tolerances, better surface finish, and fast extrusion speeds if the material is subject to hot shortness.\n\nMaterials that are commonly cold extruded include: lead, tin, aluminum, copper, zirconium, titanium, molybdenum, beryllium, vanadium, niobium, and steel.\n\nExamples of products produced by this process are: collapsible tubes, fire extinguisher cases, shock absorber cylinders and gear blanks.\n\nIn March 1956, a US Patent was filed for \"process for warm extrusion of metal.\" Patent US3156043 A outlines that a number of important advantages can be achieved with warm extrusion of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals and alloys if a billet to be extruded is changed in its physical properties in response to physical forces by being heated to a temperature below the critical melting point. Warm extrusion is done above room temperature, but below the recrystallization temperature of the material the temperatures ranges from 800 to 1800 °F (424 to 975 °C). It is usually used to achieve the proper balance of required forces, ductility and final extrusion properties.\n\nFriction extrusion was invented at The Welding Institute in the UK and patented in 1991. It was originally intended primarily as a method for production of homogenous microstructures and particle distributions in metal matrix composite materials. Friction extrusion differs from conventional extrusion in that the charge (billet or other precursor) rotates relative to the extrusion die. An extrusion force is applied so as to push the charge against the die. In practice either the die or the charge may rotate or they may be counter-rotating. The relative rotary motion between the charge and the die has several significant effects on the process. First, the relative motion in the plane of rotation leads to large shear stresses, hence, plastic deformation in the layer of charge in contact with and near the die. This plastic deformation is dissipated by recovery and recrystallization processes leading to substantial heating of the deforming charge. Because of the deformation heating, friction extrusion does not generally require preheating of the charge by auxiliary means potentially resulting in a more energy efficient process. Second, the substantial level of plastic deformation in the region of relative rotary motion can promote solid state welding of powders or other finely divided precursors, such as flakes and chips, effectively consolidating the charge (friction consolidation) prior to extrusion.\n\nMicroextrusion is a microforming extrusion process performed at the submillimeter range. Like extrusion, metal is pushed through a die orifice, but the resulting product's cross section can fit through a 1mm square. Several microextrusion processes have been developed since microforming was envisioned in 1990. Forward (ram and billet move in the same direction) and backward (ram and billet move in the opposite direction) microextrusion were first introduced, with forward rod-backward cup and double cup extrusion methods developing later. Regardless of method, one of the greatest challenges of creating a successful microextrusion machine is the manufacture of the die and ram. \"The small size of the die and ram, along with the stringent accuracy requirement, needs suitable manufacturing processes.\" Additionally, as Fu and Chan pointed out in a 2013 state-of-the-art technology review, several issues must still be resolved before microextrusion and other microforming technologies can be implemented more widely, including deformation load and defects, forming system stability, mechanical properties, and other size-related effects on the crystallite (grain) structure and boundaries.\n\n. This is often caused by the extrusion temperature, friction, or speed being too high. It can also happen at lower temperatures if the extruded product temporarily sticks to the die.\n\nThere are many different variations of extrusion equipment. They vary by four major characteristics:\n\n\nA single or twin screw auger, powered by an electric motor, or a ram, driven by hydraulic pressure (often used for steel and titanium alloys), oil pressure (for aluminium), or in other specialized processes such as rollers inside a perforated drum for the production of many simultaneous streams of material.\n\nTypical extrusion presses cost more than $100,000, whereas dies can cost up to $2000.\n\nThere are several methods for forming internal cavities in extrusions. One way is to use a hollow billet and then use a fixed or floating mandrel. A fixed mandrel, also known as a German type, means it is integrated into the dummy block and stem. A floating mandrel, also known as a French type, floats in slots in the dummy block and aligns itself in the die when extruding. If a solid billet is used as the feed material then it must first be pierced by the mandrel before extruding through the die. A special press is used in order to control the mandrel independently from the ram. The solid billet could also be used with a spider die, porthole die or bridge die. All of these types of dies incorporate the mandrel in the die and have \"legs\" that hold the mandrel in place. During extrusion the metal divides, flows around the legs, then merges, leaving weld lines in the final product.\n\nDirect extrusion, also known as forward extrusion, is the most common extrusion process. It works by placing the billet in a heavy walled container. The billet is pushed through the die by a ram or screw. There is a reusable dummy block between the ram and the billet to keep them separated. The major disadvantage of this process is that the force required to extrude the billet is greater than that needed in the indirect extrusion process because of the frictional forces introduced by the need for the billet to travel the entire length of the container. Because of this the greatest force required is at the beginning of process and slowly decreases as the billet is used up. At the end of the billet the force greatly increases because the billet is thin and the material must flow radially to exit the die. The end of the billet (called the butt end) is not used for this reason.\n\nIn indirect extrusion, also known as backwards extrusion, the billet and container move together while the die is stationary. The die is held in place by a \"stem\" which has to be longer than the container length. The maximum length of the extrusion is ultimately dictated by the column strength of the stem. Because the billet moves with the container the frictional forces are eliminated. This leads to the following advantages:\n\nThe disadvantages are:\n\nIn the hydrostatic extrusion process the billet is completely surrounded by a pressurized liquid, except where the billet contacts the die. This process can be done hot, warm, or cold, however the temperature is limited by the stability of the fluid used. The process must be carried out in a sealed cylinder to contain the hydrostatic medium. The fluid can be pressurized two ways:\n\n\nThe advantages of this process include:\n\n\nThe disadvantages are:\n\n\nMost modern direct or indirect extrusion presses are hydraulically driven, but there are some small mechanical presses still used. Of the hydraulic presses there are two types: direct-drive oil presses and accumulator water drives.\n\nDirect-drive oil presses are the most common because they are reliable and robust. They can deliver over 35 MPa (5000 psi). They supply a constant pressure throughout the whole billet. The disadvantage is that they are slow, between 50 and 200 mm/s (2–8 ips).\n\nAccumulator water drives are more expensive and larger than direct-drive oil presses, and they lose about 10% of their pressure over the stroke, but they are much faster, up to 380 mm/s (15 ips). Because of this they are used when extruding steel. They are also used on materials that must be heated to very hot temperatures for safety reasons.\n\nHydrostatic extrusion presses usually use castor oil at pressure up to 1400 MPa (200 ksi). Castor oil is used because it has good lubricity and high pressure properties.\n\nThe design of an extrusion profile has a large impact on how readily it can be extruded. The maximum size for an extrusion is determined by finding the smallest circle that will fit around the cross-section, this is called the \"circumscribing circle\". This diameter, in turn, controls the size of the die required, which ultimately determines if the part will fit in a given press. For example, a larger press can handle diameter circumscribing circles for aluminium and 55 cm (22 in) diameter circles for steel and titanium.\n\nThe complexity of an extruded profile can be roughly quantified by calculating the \"shape factor\", which is the amount of surface area generated per unit mass of extrusion. This affects the cost of tooling as well as the rate of production.\n\nThicker sections generally need an increased section size. In order for the material to flow properly legs should not be more than ten times longer than their thickness. If the cross-section is asymmetrical, adjacent sections should be as close to the same size as possible. Sharp corners should be avoided; for aluminium and magnesium the minimum radius should be 0.4 mm (1/64 in) and for steel corners should be and fillets should be . The following table lists the minimum cross-section and thickness for various materials.\n\nMetals that are commonly extruded include:\n\nMagnesium and aluminium alloys usually have a RMS or better surface finish. Titanium and steel can achieve a RMS.\n\nIn 1950, Ugine Séjournet, of France, invented a process which uses glass as a lubricant for extruding steel. The Ugine-Sejournet, or Sejournet, process is now used for other materials that have melting temperatures higher than steel or that require a narrow range of temperatures to extrude, such as the platinum-iridium alloy used to make kilogram mass standards. The process starts by heating the materials to the extruding temperature and then rolling it in glass powder. The glass melts and forms a thin film, 20 to 30 mils (0.5 to 0.75 mm), in order to separate it from chamber walls and allow it to act as a lubricant. A thick solid glass ring that is 0.25 to 0.75 in (6 to 18 mm) thick is placed in the chamber on the die to lubricate the extrusion as it is forced through the die. A second advantage of this glass ring is its ability to insulate the heat of the billet from the die. The extrusion will have a 1 mil thick layer of glass, which can be easily removed once it cools.\n\nAnother breakthrough in lubrication is the use of phosphate coatings. With this process, in conjunction with glass lubrication, steel can be cold extruded. The phosphate coat absorbs the liquid glass to offer even better lubricating properties.\n\nPlastics extrusion commonly uses plastic chips or pellets, which are usually dried, to drive out moisture, in a hopper before going to the feed screw. The polymer resin is heated to molten state by a combination of heating elements and shear heating from the extrusion screw. The screw, or screws as the case with twin screw extrusion, forces the resin through a die, forming the resin into the desired shape. The extrudate is cooled and solidified as it is pulled through the die or water tank. A \"caterpillar haul-off\" (called a \"puller\" in the US) is used to provide tension on the extrusion line which is essential for overall quality of the extrudate. Pelletizers can also create this tension while pulling extruded strands in to be cut. The caterpillar haul-off must provide a consistent pull; otherwise, variation in cut lengths or distorted product will result. In some cases (such as fibre-reinforced tubes) the extrudate is pulled through a very long die, in a process called \"pultrusion\". The configuration of the interior screws are a driving force dependent on the application. Mixing elements or convey elements are used in various formations. Extrusion is common in the application of adding colorant to molten plastic thus creating specific custom color.\n\nA multitude of polymers are used in the production of plastic tubing, pipes, rods, rails, seals, and sheets or films.\n\nWith the advent of industrial manufacturing, extrusion found application in food processing of instant foods and snacks, along with its already known uses in plastics and metal fabrication. The main role of extrusion was originally developed for conveying and shaping fluid forms of processed raw materials. Present day, extrusion cooking technologies and capabilities have developed into sophisticated processing functions including: mixing, conveying, shearing, separation, heating, cooling, shaping, co-extrusion, venting volatiles and moisture, encapsulation, flavor generation and sterilization. Products such as certain pastas, many breakfast cereals, premade cookie dough, some french fries, certain baby foods, dry or semi-moist pet food and ready-to-eat snacks are mostly manufactured by extrusion. It is also used to produce modified starch, and to pelletize animal feed.\n\nGenerally, high-temperature extrusion is used for the manufacture of ready-to-eat snacks, while cold extrusion is used for the manufacture of pasta and related products intended for later cooking and consumption. The processed products have low moisture and hence considerably higher shelf life, and provide variety and convenience to consumers.\nIn the extrusion process, raw materials are first ground to the correct particle size. The dry mix is passed through a pre-conditioner, in which other ingredients may be added, and steam is injected to start the cooking process. The preconditioned mix is then passed through an extruder, where it is forced through a die and cut to the desired length. The cooking process takes place within the extruder where the product produces its own friction and heat due to the pressure generated (10–20 bar). The main independent parameters during extrusion cooking are feed rate, particle size of the raw material, barrel temperature, screw speed and moisture content. The extruding process can induce both protein denaturation and starch gelatinization, depending on inputs and parameters. Sometimes, a catalyst is used, for example, when producing texturised vegetable proteins (TVP).\n\nFor use in pharmaceutical products, extrusion through nano-porous, polymeric filters is being used to produce suspensions of lipid vesicles liposomes or transfersomes with a particular size of a narrow size distribution. The anti-cancer drug Doxorubicin in liposome delivery system is formulated by extrusion, for example. Hot melt extrusion is also utilized in pharmaceutical solid oral dose processing to enable delivery of drugs with poor solubility and bioavailability. Hot melt extrusion has been shown to molecularly disperse poorly soluble drugs in a polymer carrier increasing dissolution rates and bioavailability. The process involves the application of heat, pressure and agitation to mix materials together and ‘extrude’ them through a die. Twin-screw high shear extruders blend materials and simultaneously break up particles. The resulting particle can be blended with compression aids and compressed into tablets or filled into unit dose capsules.\n\nThe extrusion production technology of fuel briquettes is the process of extrusion screw wastes (straw, sunflower husks, buckwheat, etc.) or finely shredded wood waste (sawdust) under high pressure when heated from 160 to 350 °C. The resulting fuel briquettes do not include any of the binders, but one natural – the lignin contained in the cells of plant wastes. The temperature during compression causes melting of the surface of bricks, making it more solid, which is important for the transportation of briquettes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4009244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4009244", "title": "Financial News &amp; Daily Record", "text": "Financial News &amp; Daily Record\n\nThe Financial News & Daily Record (or simply Daily Record) is daily newspaper that has been published in Jacksonville, Florida, United States, since 1912.\n\nThe \"Daily Record\" primarily publishes urban development, financial, and legal related news, articles, and profiles. It is the official newspaper of The Jacksonville Bar Association, Duval County Court, and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Florida. The paper is the primary publisher of legal notices in Duval County. Synopses from documents filed by The Clerk of the Circuit Court are published.\n\nFounded in 1912, The \"Daily Record\" is currently published by Observer Media Group, which bought the newspaper from third-generation owner James F. Bailey Jr. in January 2017. Bailey was publisher for 41 years. His family owned the newspaper for 104 years.\n"}
{"id": "56460269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56460269", "title": "Florida Board of Accountancy", "text": "Florida Board of Accountancy\n\nThe Florida Board of Accountancy (FLBOA) regulates Certified Public Accountants and Certified Public Accounting Firms for the State of Florida. The FLBOA is created in Florida Statutes Chapter 473 and is administered by the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation. Florida Statutes Chapter 473 permits the FLBOA to establish rules that are codified in the Florida Administrative Code (FAC) in sections 61H1-19 through 61H1-39.\n\nThe FLBOA members are appointed by the Governor of the State of Florida and confirmed by the Florida Senate. There are nine members, seven are licensed CPAs and two are public members who are not and have never been a CPA. \n\nThe FLBOA has three main functions:\nAll current and past members of the FLBOA are members of the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA). \n\nThe Florida Board of Accountancy handles applications to sit for the Uniform CPA Examination. The requirements to take the Uniform CPA Examination include: \nThe Florida Board of Accountancy also handles applications for licenses for individual license to practice public accounting. The requirements for individual licensure include: \nThe Florida Board of Accountancy also handles applications for firm licenses. Firms are required to have a Firm license if they \nFirms without an office in Florida may practice in Florida without a license, if \n\nFlorida's disciplinary system is complaint based. All complaints are administered on a confidential basis. Complaints are presented to a Probable Cause Panel to determine if there is probable cause that there is a violation of Florida Statutes or Administrative Code. If no probable cause is not found or if the Probable Cause Panel issues a letter of guidance in lieu of a finding of probable cause, the matter is closed and remains a confidential issue. If probable cause is found, the matter is made public and brought before the Board at a Public Meeting. Discipline is considered and if approved is evidenced through a Final Order. \n\nThe Florida Board of Accountancy is authorized by Florida Statutes Chapter 455 Professions and Chapter 473 Public Accountancy. These laws establish authority to create the Board of Accountancy and create, amend and repeal administrative rules. The Administrative Rules are contained in the Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 61H1-19 thru 39. The provisions of these rules may be temporarily or permanently waived by a majority vote of the Board. \n\nAffected persons, or licensees, may request the Board of Accountancy make a \"Declaratory Statement\" interpreting how the Board will rule on a matter in advance. The licensee must provide specific facts and circumstances and the Declaratory Statement only applies to those specific facts and circumstances. The most recent Declaratory Statement covered accounting and tax services provided to companies in the marijuana industry.\n\nFlorida Governor Napoleon B. Broward signed the Florida Accountancy Act in 1905, beginning the regulation of the public accounting profession in 1905. The Act began both the regulation of CPA's and the regulation of unlicensed activity in Florida. In 1927, Florida prohibited the use of \"public accountant\" by nonlicensees. In 1937, the Board used that power to prohibit the use of \"public accountant\" in the case \"Abess v. Heller.\" The courts granted the injunction and Heller appealed leading to the Florida Supreme Court decision in 1938 upholding the ability to license unregulated activity. The Florida Supreme Court narrowed the ability of the Board of Accountancy to limit unlicensed activity in the 1957 case \"Florida Accountants Association v. Dandelake.\" The court ruled that unlicensed activity could only be limited if the accountant used the title CPA or PA or if the public was confused in the title of a CPA and a non-CPA. The Accountancy Act was changed in 1969 to remove the restriction of non-CPAs practicing public accounting, recognizing that many accounting activities could be performed by non CPAs so long as the public was not confused. \n\nNational Firms Enter Florida \n\nThe movement towards national and international enterprises who relied on larger CPA firms and more national and international CPA firms led to problems in Florida. The Florida regulations required that all partners and CPAs be licensed in Florida. Other than three firms grandfathered in before the licensing requirements, CPA firms would need to obtain a temporary license for each engagement because even one partner in another state who did not have a Florida CPA license could prevent a Firm from being licensed in Florida. Two cases heard by the Florida Supreme Court, \"Mercer v. Hemmings\" (1964 and 1966), limited the ability of the State to restrict national firms from practicing in Florida. The election in 1967 of Florida Governor Claude Kirk, the first Republican governor since reconstruction, a progrowth governor resulted in the appointment of Board of Accountancy members who favored allowing national firms to practice in Florida. R. Bob Smith, on behalf of the national firms, led an effort to separate the Board of Accountancy (a Florida Regulatory body) and the Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants (a membership organization representing the CPA profession). In 1967, Clifford Beasely was the executive director of both entities. Mr. Beasley remained the FICPA Executive Director and Douglas Thompson, an auditor with the Auditor General of the State of Florida, became the Executive Director of the Board of Accountancy. In 1969, the Accountancy Act was amended to permit national firms to practice public accounting in Florida. The last impediment to national firms practicing public accounting in Florida was the requirement that all partners be CPAs, limiting the ability for firms with Tax and Consulting partners who were not licensed CPAs. in 1997, the Board of Accountancy Act was amended to require only a majority of partners be licensed CPAs. \n\nContinuing Professional Education \n\nIn 1969, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants recommended mandatory Continuing Professional Education to improve quality in the profession. Following this movement, in 1973 Florida enacted a law requiring 90 hours of Continuing Professional Education every three years. Statutory changes over the next 30 years led to the current law passed in 2004 requiring 80 hours of Continuing Professional Education every two years. \n\nIncreasing College Credit from 120 hours to 150 hours \n\nAlso in 1969, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants recommended additional education beyond the bachelor's degree as a requirement for licensure. Over the next ten years, Florida discussed increasing the number of college credits required for licensure. In 1979, the State of Florida enacted the 150 hour requirement, becoming only the second state to enact such requirement. The requirement was phased in beginning in 1984. Ultimately, all 50 states would follow and the 150 hour requirement of college credit is now the standard for the profession in the United States.\n\nAdvertising by CPAs \n\nDuring the 1990s, Florida was a party in two US Supreme Court cases shaped the way the CPA profession was regulated. \n\n\nPeer Review \n\nPeer Review began as a concept in the 1960s as a way of self-regulation of the CPA profession, where peer CPA's would review the CPA practice of another CPA and conclude on whether CPA was following standards. in 1972, the American Institute began a program to review firms who audited public companies. US congressional hearings to determine if government oversight of the profession resulted in the 1976 \"Metcalf Report \"The Accounting Establishment\"\"\".\" In 1988, the American Institute made Peer Review a Mandatory requirement for Firm membership. Several states began requiring Peer Review as a condition for licensure. Two famous Accounting Scandals in 2001 and 2002 (Eron and WorldCom) would lead to the 2002 enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). SOX would replace Peer Review for public company auditors with a structure for government inspections of CPA firms. Florida was slow to enact any Peer Review legislation. Finally in 2013, Florida became the 49th state to enact Peer Review legislation. Florida's Peer Review statute only requires enrollment in a Peer Review program and does not require completion of a Peer Review. \n\nPeer Review was first designed as a process to improve practices of CPA firms and the original intent was to be rehabilitative in nature. As such, generally, the peer review reports are used as a basis for discipline. Some states have gone beyond the original intent and required CPA firms to provide Peer Review reports to their State Accountancy Board, posted Peer Review Reports on public websites or used the issuance of multiple failed Peer Reviews as a basis for discipline. Also, the Governmental Accountability Office has issued the Yellow Book, which requires CPA Firms that issue audit reports on financial statements or performance audit reports to provide their Peer Review report to the client prior to commencing the audit. \n\nExecutive Directors \n\nThe Executive Director of the Florida Board of Accountancy shared the position of the Executive Director of Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants at its inception until 1968: \n\n\nThe Florida Board of Accountancy has adopted both individual mobility for CPAs and Firm mobility for CPA Firms. \n\nIndividual Mobility \n\nNASBA and the AICPA changed the Uniform Accountancy Act in 2007 to encourage mobility of CPA licenses. The concept of mobility allows a CPA to be licensed in its Home State and then to practice as a CPA in other states without completing the unique regulatory requirements of the other states. The principle of mobility is based on three things: 1) no notice requirement of the non home state, 2) no fee paid to the non home state, and 3) agreement to abide by the laws of the non home state and accepting jurisdiction of discipline of the non home state. Florida enacted Individual mobility in 2009. Hawaii is the only state yet to enact mobility. \n\nFirm Mobility \n\nNASBA and the AICPA further changed the Uniform Accountancy Act in 2014 to encourage mobility of CPA Firm licenses. The concept of Firm mobility allows a CPA Firm to be licensed in states where it has a physical office to practice as a CPA Firm in other states without completing the unique regulatory requirements of the other states. CPA Firm mobility requires compliance with Peer Review requirements and CPA ownership requirements. Florida enacted Firm mobility in 2017. Approximately 26 have either enacted or are in the process of enacting Firm mobility. \n"}
{"id": "11390999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11390999", "title": "Flybmi", "text": "Flybmi\n\nflybmi, legally \"British Midland Regional Limited\" and formerly branded as bmi regional, is a British regional airline that operates scheduled passenger services across the UK and Europe. The airline's head office is in East Midlands Airport in North West Leicestershire, with its registered office at Glasgow Airport. The airline has operating bases at Aberdeen, Brussels, Bristol, East Midlands, Newcastle and Munich.\n\nflybmi, previously known as bmi Regional, was a former subsidiary of British Midland International (bmi), which was purchased from Lufthansa by International Airlines Group (IAG) on 20 April 2012. Regional was sold to Sector Aviation Holdings in May 2012 and operated as an independent airline from October 2012. In August 2015, the airline became part of a new regional airline group, Airline Investments Limited (AIL), along with Loganair.\n\nThe airline was established in 1987 as \"Business Air\" and started operations in August 1987. In 1998 Business Air was purchased by British Midland and became British Midland Commuter. In 2001, it changed its name to bmi regional and later to flybmi in December 2017.\n\nAs a subsidiary of BMI, BMI Regional known then was owned by Sir Michael Bishop (50%), Lufthansa (30%) and Scandinavian Airlines (20%). Lufthansa purchased Sir Michael Bishop and SAS' stakes in October 2009, taking full ownership of the airline group. A restructuring of the group was announced the following month, which also affected Regional's operations. A suspension of loss-making routes and capacity adjustments within the group resulted in Regional having a surplus of three Embraer aircraft in 2010, and the company began consultations with staff over possible job losses. The excess aircraft were leased to other carriers.\n\nflybmi was acquired by Sector Aviation Holdings, a company predominantly owned and funded by Stephen and Peter Bond, whose family sold helicopter operator Bond Aviation Group in 2010. Sector Aviation Holdings also included the founders of Regional's predecessor Business Air, Ian Woodley and Graeme Ross. The sale was announced on 1 June 2012.\n\nIn 2014 flybmi was named the most punctual scheduled airline in the UK for the ninth consecutive year. Based on Civil Aviation Authority statistics, the airline achieved an on-time performance of over 92% in 2013.\n\nOn 5 July 2018, BMI Regional rebranded to flybmi.\n\nSince being founded as Business Air, the company had always had its Operations Control Centre located at Aberdeen. The occupied building was shared with CHC Helicopter which utilises the hangar space for helicopter maintenance and storage for its North Sea fleet. Aircraft maintenance is still carried out at the shared hangar, however all other functions have been moved elsewhere.\n\nFollowing the purchase of Regional in May 2012, Sector Aviation Holdings took the decision to relocate the company headquarters from Aberdeen to Pegasus Business Park, on the grounds of East Midlands Airport. Whilst a subsidiary, some head office functions were provided by British Midland International at its head office in Donington Hall, Castle Donington.\n\nBritish Midland Regional Limited holds a Civil Aviation Authority Type A Operating Licence, permitting it to carry passengers, cargo and mail on aircraft with 20 or more seats.\n\nSince becoming an independent airline, flybmi has changed its callsign from \"Kittiwake\" to \"Midland\" and on 28 October 2012 announced that it would be using \"BM\" as the company IATA airline designator in place of the previously used \"BD\" which belonged to British Midland International.\n\nThe airline's three main operating bases are Aberdeen Airport and Bristol Airport in the UK, as well as Munich Airport in Germany. On 23 January 2014, flybmi launched a new domestic operation in Norway with an aircraft based in Stavanger. This new service provided the first scheduled direct air link between Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes and Stavanger, however this service no longer operates.\n\nAlong with the current operating bases, flybmi previously had numerous bases throughout the United Kingdom with crew stationed at Edinburgh Airport, Glasgow Airport, Leeds Bradford Airport, Manchester Airport and London Heathrow Airport. All of these bases had Regional routes operated from them along with routes on behalf of British Midland International (BMI), Heathrow which was solely mainline routes. A base at Birmingham Airport opened during May 2013, but on 28 October 2013 it was announced that following a network review the base would close at the end of December 2013.\n\nUsing its Embraer 145 aircraft, flybmi previously operated a number of shuttle services on behalf of aircraft manufacturer Airbus. These linked manufacturing sites at Broughton, Filton and Toulouse. Despite previously having crew based at Manchester Airport and no scheduled services operating from Chester Hawarden, flybmi based crew at Hawarden for the Airbus shuttle flights. Originally the Airbus shuttle operated to Filton Aerodrome but following its closure in December 2012, the shuttle operation transferred to Bristol Lulsgate in January 2013. This had no impact on crew as they were already based at Bristol. The contract for these corporate shuttle flights was won by Eastern Airways and as a result flybmi ceased operating these flights in late 2015.\n\nIn early 2014, flybmi commenced a contract to operate a further staff shuttle on behalf of helicopter manufacturer AgustaWestland. This shuttle was previously operated by Eastern Airways using an Embraer 135 between Milan Malpensa and RNAS Yeovilton. In 2015 flybmi chose to operate the route from nearby Bristol Airport instead, therefore enabling them to carry commercial passengers on the route also, as well as upgrading the aircraft type.\n\nIn summer 2015 the airline based an Embraer 135 and an Embraer 145 at Munich to operate services to Bern, Liège and Rotterdam in conjunction with Lufthansa and replacing Lufthansa CityLine. This follows the signing of a code-share agreement with Lufthansa in April 2014. During 2015 the service to Liège was cancelled, while new service to Brno commenced. Since early 2016 a further Embraer 145 aircraft has been based in Munich in order to allow them to serve further routes from there bringing the total number to eight.\n\nAs a subsidiary of British Midland International, the airline operated regional services for its parent. Since becoming independent of BMI, the airline has completed an entire network review which has resulted in numerous route and base closures along with the introduction of a number of new routes during 2012 and 2013.\n\nflybmi operates scheduled services to over 27 destinations throughout continental Europe including Scandinavia and also United Kingdom. Commencing 30 March 2014, the start of the IATA Northern Summer Season 2014, the airline operated a scheduled service on behalf of Brussels Airlines between Brussels and Bristol. Previously, Flybmi also operated a scheduled service on behalf of Brussels Airlines between Brussels and Newcastle.\n\nAt present, flybmi has codeshare agreements in place with other airlines. flybmi operates codeshares with Lufthansa on its routes from Bristol to Frankfurt and on all of its routes to/from Munich. It also operates a codeshare with Brussels Airlines from both East Midlands Airport and Newcastle to Brussels.\n\nflybmi also operates regular holiday charter flights over the summer months. These destinations have include Bastia on the island of Corsica on behalf of specialist tour operator Corsican Places, from Bristol, and Verona from Bristol on behalf of another specialist tour operator Inghams. During 2011 Regional aircraft operated, on behalf of BMI, direct flights between Heathrow Airport and Beja in the Alentejo region of Portugal for Sunvil Discovery.\n\nAt the end of July 2016 the airline announced an extension to its codeshare agreement with Brussels Airlines by adding seven new routes to its network. This has allowed flybmi to sell fares to Heathrow Airport.\n\nAs of 2 November 2017, flybmi codeshares with:\n\nAs of July 2018, the flybmi fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nIn May 2018 CCO Jochen Schnadt said in a interview with Air Transport World that the carrier was evaluating adding larger regional jets to the fleet with both the Bombardier CRJ900 and Embraer 190 being considered In June 2018 it was announced that flybmi will transfer two Embraer ERJ-145 to its sister company Loganair for the start of the S19 schedule..\n\nflybmi has also operated the following aircraft:\n"}
{"id": "50139804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50139804", "title": "Gabriele Volpi", "text": "Gabriele Volpi\n\nGabriele Volpi (born 29 June 1943) is an Italian-born Nigerian businessman, active in various sectors in Nigeria and Angola, the owner of the Italian football club Spezia Calcio and the former owner of Croatian football club HNK Rijeka.\n\nGabriele Volpi was born in Recco, province of Genoa, Italy on 29 June 1943.\n\nHe moved to Nigeria in the 1970s, and became a naturalized citizen.\n\nHis holding company Orlean Invest Holding includes all of his Nigerian businesses including Intels Oilfield, Port Harcourt.\n\nGabriele Volpi (Male Residence Hall) at the American University of Nigeria is named after him.\n\nVolpi owns the Italian Serie B football club Spezia Calcio and the Italian water polo club Pro Recco. From September 2013 until December 2017 he was also the owner of the Croatian football club HNK Rijeka.\n\nHe is married to Rosi Volpi, and has two sons, Simone and Matteo, who both work in his businesses.\n\nVolpi owns a 60-metre yacht, \"Givi\".\n"}
{"id": "331020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331020", "title": "Getty Images", "text": "Getty Images\n\nGetty Images, Inc. is a visual media company, with headquarters in Seattle, Washington, United States. It is a supplier of stock images, editorial photography, video and music for business and consumers with an archive of over 200 million assets. It targets three markets—creative professionals (advertising and graphic design), the media (print and online publishing), and corporate (in-house design, marketing and communication departments).\n\nGetty has distribution offices around the world and capitalizes on the Internet and for distribution. As Getty has acquired other older photo agencies and archives, it has digitized their collections, enabling online distribution. Getty Images operates a large commercial website that clients use to search and browse for images, purchase usage rights, and download images. Image prices vary according to resolution and type of rights. Cost-per-image is typically around . The company also offers custom photo services for corporate clients.\n\nIn 1995, Mark Getty and Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Klein co-founded Getty Investments LLC. Mark Getty is the company's chairman. In September 1997, Getty Communications, as it was called at the time, merged with PhotoDisc, Inc. to form Getty Images. In April 2003, Getty Images entered into a partnership with Agence France-Presse (AFP) to market each other's images.\n\nGetty Images acquired the Michael Ochs Archives in February 2007. The Michael Ochs Archives were described by \"The New York Times\" as \"the premier source of musician photography in the world\".\n\nIn 2008, the private equity firm Hellman & Friedman (H&F) acquired Getty Images. In 2012, H&F put Getty up for sale. As of the ensuing sale to Carlyle Group, the company was said to have an archive that included 80 million stills and illustrations.The company was aquired by the Getty family in 2018.\n\nIn 2015, Jonathan Klein became the company's chairman and Dawn Airey was hired as chief executive officer (CEO) of Getty Images.\n\nSince its formation, Getty Images has pursued an aggressive programme of acquisition, buying up many privately owned agencies that had built up the stock photography industry, from small family-run firms to larger agencies. By 1999 it had acquired one of the largest agencies, Tony Stone Images; the online art seller Art.com; the sports photography agency Allsport; the market leader in the Benelux and Scandinavia: Word View (1996, from Mr. Bert Blokhuis, four offices, for undisclosed sum); journalistic specialists Liaison Agency; Newsmakers the first digital news photo agency; Online USA, a specialist in celebrity shots; and the Hulton Press Library, the former archive of the British photojournalistic magazine \"Picture Post\". The Hulton collection was sold by the BBC to Brian Deutsch in 1988, when it was renamed Hulton Deutsch. In 1996, the Hulton collection was sold on once more, this time purchased by Getty Images and renamed Hulton Getty. With the acquisition of the Hulton library, Getty Images took ownership of the rights to some 15 million photographs from the British press archives dating back to the Nineteenth Century. Hulton Getty also included photographs from the Keystone Collection, as well as images by notable photographers such as Bert Hardy, Bill Brandt, Weegee and Ernst Haas.\n\nGetty has branched out into stock audio, music and sound effects. And also video with the acquisition of EyeWire and Energy Film Library. Getty has partnered with other companies including Slidely for companies and advertisers to use the Getty Images video library of around 2 million videos.\n\nIn 2000, Getty acquired one of its main competitors, Archive Photos of New York (a division of The Image Bank), for US$183 million. The Archive Photos library was combined with the Hulton Getty collection to form a new subsidiary, Hulton Archive. Archive Photos had been formed in 1990 from the merger of Pictorial Parade (est. 1935) and Frederick Lewis Stock Photos (est. 1938), two well-established US photo agencies. Their collections included archive images from \"The New York Times\", \"Metronome\" and George Eastman House, and works by photographers such as Ruth Orkin, Anacleto Rapping, Deborah Feingold, Murray Garrett, Nat Fein and John Filo.\n\nFurther acquisitions followed, with the purchase in 2004 of image.net for US$20 million. On February 9, 2006, the microstock photo website iStockphoto was acquired by Getty Images for US$50 million. In 2007, Getty successfully purchased its largest competitor, MediaVast, for $207 million. The acquisition gave Getty Images control of WireImage (Entertainment, creative, and sports photography), FilmMagic (fashion and red carpet photography), and Contour Photos (portrait and studio photography). Getty Images also acquired other subsidiaries, including Master Delegates, which includes Isifa Image Service in Prague and Laura Ronchi in Italy. In 2008, Getty purchased Redferns Music Picture Library, the music photo library built up by British jazz photographer David Redfern.\n\nOn October 23, 2008, Getty Images announced their intention to buy Jupitermedia's online images division, Jupiterimages, for $96 million in cash. The sale went ahead in February 2009; Jupiterimages (including the sites stock.xchng and StockXpert) is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Getty. Jupitermedia, now trading as WebMediaBrands, continues its Internet publishing business, which they didn't sell to Getty Images.\n\nOn January 25, 2016, Corbis announced that it had sold its image licensing business, including the Corbis Images, Corbis Motion and Veer libraries and their associated assets, to an affiliate of Visual China Group—Getty's exclusive distributor in China. Concurrently, it was announced that VCG would, after a transition period, license distribution and marketing of the Corbis library outside of China to Getty. The firm will also manage Corbis's physical archives.\n\nIn February 2008, it was announced that Getty Images would be acquired by the private equity firm Hellman & Friedman in a transaction valued at an estimated US$2.4 billion. On July 2, 2008, Getty Images announced the completion of its acquisition. Getty Images common stock ceased trading on the New York Stock Exchange at the close of the acquisition and was delisted from the NYSE.\n\nIn 2012, H&F engaged investment bankers to sell the company. While a price of $4 billion was initially discussed, in August when the private equity firm Carlyle Group emerged as the likely acquirer, the price under consideration was said to be $3.3–3.4 billion. CVC Capital Partners Ltd. was also said to have been bidding but had yet to top Carlyle's price. The sale to Carlyle thereafter was announced at $3.3 billion, with co-founders Getty and Klein and the Getty family all carrying their investments over into the new ownership structure. Getty continues to serve as chairman and Klein as chief executive.\n\nIn September 2018, the Getty family announced it would acquire majority stake in the company from Carlyle Group.\n\nBeginning in 2008, Getty Images has created controversy for its methods of pursuing copyright enforcement on behalf of its photographers. Rather than pursue a policy of sending \"cease and desist\" notices, Getty typically mails a demand letter that claims substantial monetary damages from owners of websites it believes infringed on their photographers' copyrights. Getty commonly tries to intimidate website owners by sending collection agents, even though a demand letter does not create a debt.\n\nOne photographer noted, \"Courts don't like to be used as a means of extortion.\" In one case, Getty sent a church in Lichfield, Staffordshire, a £6,000 bill for photographs it used on its website, apparently placed there by a church volunteer. In this case, the church offered to pay Getty what it thought was a reasonable amount. The diocese's communications director said:\n\nGetty was not playing ball or following the normal litigation or dispute resolution procedures and [I advised the church] to ignore them. We don't deal with bullies; we deal with legal threats appropriately. I told [Getty] by letter that's what [the church was] doing, that we were not going to play, and didn't hear any more. \n\n\"The Guardian\" described other instances in which Getty or other stock photo businesses dropped a claim when a website owner refused to pay and hired a lawyer. A law firm was quoted as saying: \"Once we get involved generally Getty does back off.\"\n\nIn 2009, Oscar Michelen, a New York attorney who focuses on such damages claims, said: \"The damages they're requesting aren't equal to the copyright infringement,\" and \"there's no law that says definitively what images are worth in the digital age.\" He called Getty's effort to assess four-figure fines \"a legalized form of extortion\".\n\nIn an effort to combat online copyright infringement, in March 2014 Getty Images made over 35 million images available free for non-commercial online use via embedding with attribution and a link back to the Getty Images website. According to Getty Images executive Craig Peters, \"The principle is to turn what's infringing use with good intentions, turning that into something that's valid licensed use with some benefits going back to the photographer\".\n\nIn 2016, Getty Images entered a lawsuit with Google, taking issue with the way the search giant handled their images scraping methods. Two years later in 2018, Google removed the \"View Image\" button from their image search results. This led to outrage from users around the world, and a number of articles referencing this lawsuit. The button was removed as part of a settlement Google made with Getty Images.\n\nIn 2009, Car-Freshner Corp. filed a lawsuit against Getty Images in U.S. Federal Court, Northern District New York (Case 7:09-cv-01252-GTS -GHL). Car-Freshner claimed that Getty Images had in its catalog photos that included the famous \"tree-shaped\" trademarked car fresheners. In 2011, Getty Images attempted to have the case dismissed, but its motion was denied. In 2012, Getty Images agreed to settle by paying $100,000 to Car-Freshener Corp., but admitted no wrongdoing.\n\nIn September 2013, Avril Nolan brought a $450,000 suit against Getty Images. Nolan alleged that Getty Images improperly let her image be used in advertisements that depicted her as HIV-positive. She claimed the ad's depiction of her as HIV-positive (she is not) hurt her personal and professional relationships and caused her emotional distress. In March 2014 a judge ruled the lawsuit will be taken to court rather than dismissed. Getty Images settled with Nolan in January 2015.\n\nIn November 2013, Getty and Agence France-Presse were ordered to pay $1.2 million compensation to freelance photojournalist Daniel Morel for using his images posted on Twitter related to the 2010 Haiti earthquake without his permission, in violation of copyright and Twitter's terms of service.\n\nIn July 2016, Getty was sued, unsuccessfully, for over $1 billion by Carol Highsmith, an American photographer notable for donating her 100,000+ image collection, royalty-free, to the Library of Congress, when Highsmith found that Getty has been selling unauthorized licenses of her work (an instance of copyfraud). Carol Highsmith found out about this when she received a letter from a law firm representing Getty demanding $120 for displaying her pictures on a personal website of hers.\n\nIn August 2016, Zuma Press, an independent press agency, filed suit against Getty for alleged copyright violations and unauthorized licensing of more than 47,000 images.\n\nGetty Images has continued practice Corbis (whose license it acquired in 2016) has been criticized for, namely of claiming copyright, watermarking and selling images that are in public domain, including images related to The Holocaust like the Warsaw Ghetto boy photo or the Polish cavalry in Sochaczew photograph.\n\nThe Getty Images Prestige Grant is awarded to two commercial photographers to realise a dream project, awarding them USD$15,000 and $7,500 respectively. The first recipients, in 2015, were Lisa Barnard and Andy Lo Po.\n\n"}
{"id": "44234764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44234764", "title": "IT operations analytics", "text": "IT operations analytics\n\nIn the fields of information technology (IT) and systems management, IT operations analytics (ITOA) is an approach or method to retrieve, analyze, and report data for IT operations. ITOA may apply big data analytics to large datasets to produce business insights. In 2014, Gartner predicted its use might increase revenue or reduce costs. By 2017, it predicted that 15% of enterprises will use IT operations analytics technologies.\n\nIT operations analytics (ITOA) (also known as advanced operational analytics, or IT data analytics) technologies are primarily used to discover complex patterns in high volumes of often \"noisy\" IT system availability and performance data. Forrester Research defined IT analytics as \"The use of mathematical algorithms and other innovations to extract meaningful information from the sea of raw data collected by management and monitoring technologies.\"\n\nOperations research as a discipline emerged from the Second World War to improve military efficiency and decision-making on the battlefield. However, only with the emergence of machine learning tech in the early 2000s could an artificially intelligent operational analytics platform actually begin to engage in the high-level pattern recognition that could adequately serve business needs. A critical catalyst towards ITOA development was the rise of Google, which pioneered a predictive analytics model that represented the first attempt to read into patterns of human behavior on the Internet. IT specialists then applied predictive analytics to the IT Industry, coming forward with platforms that can sift through data to generate insights without the need for human intervention.\n\nDue to the mainstream embrace of cloud computing and the increasing desire for businesses to adopt more Big Data practices, the ITOA industry has grown significantly since 2010. A 2016 ExtraHop survey of large and mid-size corporations indicates that 65 percent of the businesses surveyed will seek to integrate their data silos either this year or the next. The current goals of ITOA platforms are to improve the accuracy of their APM services, facilitate better integration with the data, and to enhance their predictive analytics capabilities.\n\nITOA systems tend to be used by IT operations teams, and Gartner describes five applications of ITOA systems: \n\nIn their \"Data Growth Demands a Single, Architected IT Operations Analytics Platform\", Gartner Research describes five types of analytics technologies: \n\nAIOps stands for and is the acronym of \"Algorithmic IT Operations\", synonymously titled as \"Artificial Intelligence for IT Operations\". Such operation tasks include automation, performance monitoring and event correlations among others.\n\nThere are two main aspects of an AIOps platform: Machine learning and big data. In order to collect observational data and engagement data that can be found inside a big data platform and requires a shift away from sectionally segregated IT data, a holistic machine learning and analytics strategy is implemented against the combined IT data.\n\nThe goal is to receive continuous insights which provide continuous fixes and improvements via automation. This is why AIOps can be viewed as CI/CD for core IT functions.\n\nA number of vendors operate in the ITOA space:\n\n"}
{"id": "5804154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5804154", "title": "International Qualification Examination", "text": "International Qualification Examination\n\nThe International Qualification Examination (IQEX) is an examination sat by certain non-U.S. qualified accountants seeking the Certified Public Accountant designation in the United States.\n\nThe examination is set by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and administered by the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA).\n\nIn principle the following members of the following overseas bodies are eligible :\n\n\nNote: The Mutual Recognition Agreement between the U.S. International Qualifications Appraisal Board and CPA Australia (Australian Certified \"Practicing\" Accountants) has expired and is not being considered for renewal. Members of CPA Australia interested in becoming licensed as a CPA in the U.S. must complete the Uniform CPA Examination.\n\nThose who have acquired their overseas membership through mutual recognition or reciprocity are not eligible. For example, an Australian or Irish Chartered Accountant who originally qualified as a Scottish Chartered Accountant would not be eligible.\n\nThose from recognized overseas bodies who are not eligible to sit for IQEX may apply to a U.S. State Board of Accountancy to sit for the Uniform CPA Exam under normal rules. The \"Colorado State Board of Accountancy\", \"Delaware State Board of Accountancy\" and \"Illinois State Board of Accountancy\" are popular choices for overseas qualified accountants.\n\nDetails on IQEX eligibility, IQEX training programs and CPA licensure are available at \n\nThe administration of the IQEX exam is similar to that for the Uniform CPA Exam, with a few key differences:\n\n\nThe fee to sit IQEX is USD845 as a first time candidate, and USD795 as a re-examination candidate. Australian CPAs required to sit the AUD section of the Uniform CPA Exam must pay USD1,030 as a first time candidate, and USD795 for re-examination. Should AUD be applied for on its own the fee is USD185.\n\nAfter successfully passing IQEX, candidates must still meet the requirements of one of the 55 State Boards of Accountancy in order to be licensed or certified as a CPA.\n\nAlthough state boards are not involved in the IQEX examination itself, they still reserve the right to decide on CPA licensure and certification.\n\n"}
{"id": "19924018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19924018", "title": "Jens Carl Peter Brandt", "text": "Jens Carl Peter Brandt\n\nJens Carl Peter Brandt (20 June 1848 – 10 August 1912) was a Norwegian lawyer, property owner and politician with the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born on the Froen farm of Frogn parish (\"Froen gård i Frogn\") in Akershus, Norway. He was the son of Captain Ole Peter Brandt (1793-1875) and his second wife Mathilde Kristine Brandt. Members of this family still own this property.\n\nHe finished his secondary education in 1865 and graduated with the cand.jur. degree in 1869. He then worked six years as an attorney, before taking over his family manor in 1875. In addition to a farm, the estate had a mill, a sawmill, a planing mill and a brickworks. He was also among the co-founders of the local savings bank, Frogn sparebank, in 1884 and was chairman of the board.\n\nBrandt was a member of Frogn municipal council from 1884 to 1912, serving as mayor from 1884 to 1895. He was elected to the Parliament of Norway in 1900 and 1903, representing the constituency of Akershus Amt. Brandt was also a deputy member of the Norwegian Nobel Committee. He died in August 1912.\n"}
{"id": "52615396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52615396", "title": "Jiba Lamichhane", "text": "Jiba Lamichhane\n\nJiba Lamichhane () is business entrepreneur and former president of International Coordination Council (ICC) of Non Resident Nepali Association (NRNA). He was one of the founder members of NRNA (Non Resident Nepali Association).\n\nHe was graduated MSc in Civil Engineering from Moscow, Russia.\n\nHe was awarded “Prawal Janasewshree” one of the highest state honor in Nepal by the President of Nepal Dr Ram Baran Yadav for his outstanding contribution to Nepal and Nepali Diaspora.\n\nHe published travel memoir ‘Sarsarti Sansaar’.\n"}
{"id": "728579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=728579", "title": "L'Oréal", "text": "L'Oréal\n\nL'Oréal S.A. is a French personal care company headquartered in Clichy, Hauts-de-Seine with a registered office in Paris. It is the world's largest cosmetics company and has developed activities in the field concentrating on hair colour, skin care, sun protection, make-up, perfume, hair care and men's skincare .\nIn 1909, Eugène Paul Louis Schueller, a \nyoung French chemist of German descent, developed a hair dye formula called \"Auréale\". Schueller formulated and manufactured his own products, which he then decided to sell to Parisian hairdressers.\nOn 31 July 1919, Schueller registered his company, the Société Française de Teintures Inoffensives pour Cheveux (Safe Hair Dye Company of France). The guiding principles of the company, which eventually became L'Oréal, were research and innovation in the field of beauty. In 1920, the company employed three chemists. By 1950, the team was 100 strong; that number reached 1,000 by 1984 and is nearly 82,000 today.\n\nSchueller provided financial support and held meetings for La Cagoule at L'Oréal headquarters. La Cagoule was a violent French fascist-leaning and anti-communist group whose leader formed a political party Mouvement Social Révolutionnaire (MSR, Social Revolutionary Movement) which in Occupied France supported the Vichy collaboration with the Germans. L'Oréal hired several members of the group as executives after World War II, such as Jacques Corrèze, who served as CEO of the United States operation. This involvement was extensively researched by Michael Bar-Zohar in his book, \"Bitter Scent\".\n\nL'Oréal got its start in the hair-colour business, but the company soon branched out into other cleansing and beauty products. L'Oréal currently markets over 500 brands and thousands of individual products in all sectors of the beauty business: hair colour, permanents, hair styling, body and skin care, cleansers, makeup and fragrance. The company's products are found in a wide variety of distribution channels, from hair salons and perfumeries to hyper - and supermarkets, health/beauty outlets, pharmacies and direct mail.\n\nL'Oréal has six worldwide research and development centres: two in France: Aulnay and Chevilly; one in the U.S.: Clark, New Jersey; one in Japan: Kawasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture; in 2005 one was established in Shanghai, China, and one in India. A future facility in the US will be in Berkeley Heights, New Jersey.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1989, L'Oréal controlled the film company Paravision, whose properties included the Filmation and De Laurentiis libraries. StudioCanal acquired the Paravision properties in 1994.\n\nL'Oréal purchased Synthélabo in 1973 to pursue its ambitions in the pharmaceutical field. Synthélabo merged with Sanofi in 1999 to become Sanofi-Synthélabo. Sanofi-Synthélabo merged with Aventis in 2004 to become Sanofi-Aventis.\n\nOn 17 March 2006, L'Oréal purchased cosmetics company The Body Shop for £562 million.\n\nL'Oréal's advertising slogan is \"Because I'm worth it\". In the mid 2000s, this was replaced by \"Because you're worth it\". In late 2009, the slogan was changed again to \"Because we're worth it\" following motivation analysis and work into consumer psychology of Dr. Maxim Titorenko. The shift to \"we\" was made to create stronger consumer involvement in L'Oréal philosophy and lifestyle and provide more consumer satisfaction with L'Oréal products. L'Oréal also owns a Hair and Body products line for kids called L'Oréal Kids, the slogan for which is \"Because we're worth it too\".\n\nIn 1987, during the growth years of the mail order business, L'Oréal and 3 Suisses founded Le Club des Créateurs de Beauté for mail-order sales of cosmetic products, with brands including Agnès b., Cosmence and Professeur Christine Poelman among others. In March 2008, L'Oréal acquired 3 Suisse's stake, taking sole control of the company. In November 2013, L'Oréal announced that Le Club des Créateurs de Beauté would cease activity in the first half of 2014.\n\nIn November 2012, L'Oréal inaugurated the largest factory in the Jababeka Industrial Park, Cikarang, Indonesia, with a total investment of US$100 million. The production will be absorbed 25 percent by domestic market and the rest will be exported. In 2010, significant growth occurred at Indonesia with 61 percent increase of unit sales or 28 percent of net sales.\n\nIn January 2014, L'Oréal finalised the acquisition of major Chinese beauty brand Magic Holdings for $840 million.\n\nOn 11 February 2014 it was announced that L'Oreal had sealed a deal worth €3.4bn to buy back 8% of its shares from Swiss consumer goods giant Nestle. As a result of the deal, Nestle's stake in L'Oreal will be reduced from 29.4pc to 23.29pc while the Bettencourt Meyers family's stake will increase from 30.6pc to 33.2pc. Nestle has owned a stake in L'Oreal since 1974 when it bought into the company at the request of Liliane Bettencourt, the daughter of the founder of L'Oreal and world's richest woman, who was trying to prevent the French state's intervention in the company.\n\nOn 20 February 2014, Shiseido agreed to sell its Carita and Decléor brands to L'Oréal for €227.5 million (US$312.93 million (2014)).\n\nOn 18 June 2014, L'Oréal agreed to acquire NYX Cosmetics for an undisclosed price, bolstering its makeup offer in North America where its consumer-products unit has faltered.\n\nIn September 2014, L'Oréal announced it had agreed to purchase Brazilian hair care company Niely Cosmeticos Group for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn October 2014, L'Oréal acquired multi-cultural brand Carol's Daughter.\n\nIn May 2018, L'Oréal announce a brand-new beauty and fragrance partnership with Valentino.\n\nIn 2015, Soo Joo Park became L'Oréal's first Asian-American global spokesmodel.\n\nIn 2015, Kristina Bazan became L'Oreal's first international e-spokesperson.\n\nIn July 2016, L'Oréal announced it had agreed to acquire IT Cosmetics for $1.2 billion.\n\nL'Oréal Group has its head office in the Centre Eugène Schueller in Clichy, Hauts-de-Seine, near Paris. The building, constructed in the 1970s from brick and steel, replaced the former Monsavon factory, and employees moved into the facility in 1978. 1,400 employees work in the building. In 2005, Nils Klawitter of \"Der Spiegel\" said \"the building, with its brown glazed façade of windows, is every bit as ugly as its neighbourhood.\" Klawitter added that the facility \"gives the impression of a high-security zone\" due to the CCTV cameras and security equipment. The world's largest hair salon is located inside the head office building. As of 2005, 90 hairdressers served 300 women, including retirees, students, and unemployed people, per day; the customers are used as test subjects for new hair colours.\n\nInternational units include:\n\n\nJean-Paul Agon is the chairman and chief executive officer of L'Oréal. Jean-Pierre Meyers and Peter Brabeck-Letmathe are vice chairmen of the board of directors.\n\nAs at year end 2013:\n\nIn 2003, L'Oréal announced its 19th consecutive year of double-digit growth. Its consolidated sales were €14.029 bn and net profit was €1.653 bn. 96.7% of sales derived from cosmetic activities and 2.5% from dermatological activities. L'Oréal has operations in over 130 countries, employing 50,500 people, 24% of which work in France. 3.3% of consolidated sales is invested in research and development, which accounts for 2,900 of its employees. In 2003, it applied for 515 patents. It operates 42 manufacturing plants throughout the world, which employ 14,000 people.\n\n\nIn 2007, L'Oréal was ranked 353 in the Fortune Global 500. The company had earned $2,585 million on sales of $19,811 million. There were 60,850 employees.\n\nBy 19 March 2016 the company had a share value of 89,542 million euros, distributed in 562,983,348 shares. Its reported operating profit in 2016 was €4.54 bn based on revenue of €25.8 bn.\n\nL'Oréal holds 10.41% of the shares of Sanofi-Aventis, the world's number three and Europe's number one pharmaceutical company. The Laboratoires Innéov is a joint venture in nutritional cosmetics between L'Oréal and Nestlé; they draw on L'Oréal's knowledge in the fields of nutrition and food safety.\n\nL'Oreal announced a new sustainability plan in 2013, which they hope will help reach the goal of 1 billion new consumers by 2020 by producing more products with less environmental impact and helping customers make sustainable lifestyle choices. The main commitments to achieve by 2020 include: aiming for 100 percent of its products to have an environmental or social benefit; reducing the company's environmental footprint by 60 percent; and empowering consumers to make sustainable consumption choices.\n\nIn 2009, L'Oréal declared their intention to cut greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and waste by 50% over the period 2005-2015 – a deduction in carbon dioxide emissions that is to be in part achieved by the use of solar panels, biogas and electricity and hot water produced from the combustion of methane gas recovered from agricultural waste. In 2012, the company declared a 37.1% deduction in C02 Emissions, a 24% deduction in water consumption and a 22% deduction in transportable waste, and was named a sector leader by Climate Counts for its practices and achievements in the management of carbon emissions.\nIn 2014, L'Oréal made the commitment to ensure that none of its products were linked to deforestation, and to source 100% renewable raw materials by 2020. The group was included in the Corporate Knights \"Global 100\" list of the 100 most sustainable companies.\n\nSince the 80s, L'Oréal has invested €900 million in researching alternatives to animal testing for product safety, using methods such as reconstructed skin models, like the Episkin model at their research centers in Gerland, France, and Pudong, China.\n\nNevertheless, this is complicated by markets such as China, where animal testing of all cosmetics for human use is mandatory. Cosmetics by brands such as The Body Shop, which refuses to do animal testing, are thus not available for sale in the Chinese market.\n\nIn 2013, L'Oréal was part of a consortium calling on the EU to invest more in research on alternatives to animal testing.\n\nIn 2014, L'Oreal was listed 61st among 1200 of India's most trusted brands according to the Brand Trust Report 2014, a study conducted by Trust Research Advisory, a brand analytics company.\n\nIn 2008, L'Oréal was named Europe's top business employer by the European Student Barometer, a survey conducted by Trendence that covers 20 European countries and incorporates the responses of over 91,000 students.\n\nThe L'Oréal-UNESCO Awards for Women in Science was established to improve the position of women in science by recognizing outstanding women researchers who have contributed to scientific progress.\n\nThe awards are a result of a partnership between the French cosmetics company L'Oréal and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and carry a grant of $100,000 USD for each laureate.\n\nThe same partnership awards the UNESCO-L'Oréal International Fellowships, providing up to $40,000 USD in funding over two years to fifteen young women scientists engaged in exemplary and promising research projects.\n\nL'Oréal organises the yearly L'Oréal Brandstorm, a business game for students in 43 countries. The game is related to marketing and has a first prize of $10,000, a second prize of $5,000 and a third prize of $2500.\n\nL'Oréal is also a founding member of the \"Look Good...Feel Better\" project, a charity which was formed over 16 years ago to help women combat the visible side effects of cancer treatment.\n\nIn 2015, Standard Ethics Aei gave a rating to L'Oreal in order to include it in its Standard Ethics French Index.\n\nEpiskin is a reconstructed skin model developed by engineers at L'Oréal France to provide an alternatives to animal testing. Human skin cells left over from breast surgery are developed under in vitro laboratory conditions to form sheets of reconstructed skin. This has advantages over animal testing other than the sparing of animals: it can be adapted to create reconstructions of a range of skin colours, as well as younger and older skin, meaning that safety tests give more relevant results for humans.\nIn 2006, the Episkin division acquired SkinEthic, a leading tissue engineering company.\n\nThe aim for L'Oréal is to produce products that cater to their diverse customers specifically, in the emerging markets that currently account for 53% of the entire global beauty market. Through these research methods L'Oréal aims to tap into one billion new consumers in these markets for the upcoming years.\n\nIn 2003, the L'Oréal Institute for Ethnic Hair & Skin Research was inaugurated in Chicago to continue their research on African American hair and skin among other ethnicities. The L'Oréal Group opened \"the Predictive Evaluation Center\" in Lyon, France in 2011. This centre is devoted to evaluating the quality of the products without testing on animals. Additionally, L'Oréal built an international \"Consumer Insights\" division as well as, regional Research and Innovation centres in six countries: Japan, China, India, the United States, Brazil, and France. The aim of these centres is to collect information on their diverse consumers in order to develop products according to their various needs. In 2011, L'Oréal announced its intention to build a \"Research and Innovation Center\" in Bom Jesus Island Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Estimated at 30 million euros (70,000,000 reals), this project is expected to create about 150 jobs by 2015.\n\nThe L'Oreal Global Hair Research Centre, a facility in Paris Saint-Ouen opened in March 2012. It serves as the headquarters for the international departments of hair color, hair care and hair styling. One of the largest investments in company R&I history, the 25,000m² Centre hosts 500 employees. These include chemists, physico-chemists, opticians, materials scientists, metrologists, rheologists, computer scientists and statisticians. The facility offers automation, modelling and sensory evaluation.\n\nL'Oreal announced in May 2015 that it was partnering with bioprinting startup Organovo to figure out how to 3D print living, breathing derma that can be used to test products for toxicity and efficacy. \"We're the first beauty company that Organovo has worked with,\" said Guive Balooch, global vice president of L'Oreal's tech incubator.\n\nOn 16 March 2018, L'Oréal announced that it had acquired Modiface, a beauty tech company that uses augmented reality to allow users to digitally try on different makeup products and hairstyles.\n\nIn May 2007, L'Oréal was one of several cosmetic manufacturers (along with Clinique, Estee Lauder, Payot, Lancôme) ordered by the Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia to withdraw advertising regarding the wrinkle removal capabilities of their products.\n\nIn the UK, L'Oréal has faced criticism from OFCOM regarding the truth of their advertising and marketing campaigns concerning the product performance of one of their mascara brands. In July 2007, the British Advertising Standards Authority attacked L'Oréal for a television advert on its \"Telescopic\" mascara, featuring Penélope Cruz, stating, \"it will make your eyelashes 60% longer.\" In fact, it only made the lashes look 60% bigger, by separating and thickening at the roots and by thickening the tips of the lashes. They also failed to state that the model was wearing false eyelashes.\n\nIn July 2011, the British Advertising Standards Authority took action against L'Oréal, banning two airbrushed Lancôme advertisements in the UK featuring actress Julia Roberts and supermodel Christy Turlington. The agency issued the ban after British politician Jo Swinson argued that the two ads misrepresented reality and added to the self-image problem amongst females in the UK. L'Oréal acknowledged that the photos had been airbrushed but argued that the two cosmetic products could actually produce the results depicted in the ads and that the results of the products had been scientifically proven.\n\nIn June 2014 the company reached agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission not to make claims about its anti-aging products unless it had credible scientific evidence supporting the claims. The settlement followed an investigation by the commission into claims being made in relation to two products, which the commission described as \"false and unsubstantiated.\"\n\nL'Oréal has a team of 400 members of staff who post content to Facebook every day, according to Marc Menesguen, the company's chief marketing officer.\n\nOn 11 August 2005, the Supreme Court of California ruled that former L'Oréal sales manager Elyse Yanowitz had adequately pleaded a cause of action for retaliatory termination under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, and remanded the case for trial. The case arose out of a 1997 incident in which Jack Wiswall, then the general manager for designer fragrances, allegedly told Yanowitz to fire a dark-skinned sales associate despite the associate's good performance. When Yanowitz refused, Wiswall pointed to a \"sexy\" blonde-haired woman and said \"God damn it, get me one that looks like that.\" Wiswall retired as president of the luxury products division of L'Oréal USA at the end of 2006.\n\nThe company has recently faced discrimination lawsuits in France related to the hiring of spokesmodels and institutional racism. In July 2007, the Garnier division and an external employment agency were fined €30,000 for recruitment practices that intentionally excluded non-white women from promoting its hair wash, \"Fructis Style\". L'Oréal is reported as saying the decision was \"incomprehensible\", and would challenge the measure in court.\n\nIn August 2017, L'Oréal dismissed Munroe Bergdorf, a mixed-race transgender model, after she responded to the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia by stating in a Facebook post that racism is institutionalized in society by white people. Shortly after terminating Bergdorf, L'Oréal released a statement reaffirming their commitment to \"[support] diversity and tolerance towards all people irrespective of their race, background, gender and religion\" and had terminated their partnership with Bergdorf because her comments were \"at odds with those values.\"\n\nL'Oréal pays companies to test on animals for the China market as China requires cosmetics companies perform animal testing in government labs before regulators approve products for sale. \nAll brands that import products to sell in China must animal test. In CNBC's 2017 article, \"In China, Big Cosmetic Firms are Selling Products Tested on Animals,\" the author reached out to L'Oréal for a comment but they didn't respond.\n\nEugène Schueller, the company's founder, was an alleged Nazi sympathizer. L'Oréal concedes that Schueller was an anti-Semitic fascist. He was also a member of La Cagoule, which supported the Vichy regime, and was a violent, pro-fascist and anti-communist organization. Eugène bankrolled La Cagoule and some meetings of La Cagoule were held at L'Oréal headquarters. Some of the criminal activities perpetrated by La Cagoule include firearms transportation, assassinating a former minister, and firebombing six synagogues.\n\nOther controversy arose when Jean Frydman, a shareholder and board member of Paravision, a film subsidiary of L'Oréal, was fired. He claims that he was let go because L'Oréal wanted to avoid an Arab boycott of businesses associated with Jews. In turn, Frydman decided to expose the past of L'Oréal executives. André Bettencourt who married Schueller's daughter, Liliane Bettencourt, and became deputy chairman for L'Oréal, wrote 60 articles for La Terre Française. La Terre Française was an anti-Semitic Nazi propaganda sheet. André has admitted ownership of the propaganda but claimed he was poisoned by the Vichy regime and said, \"I have repeatedly expressed my regrets concerning them in public and will always beg the Jewish community to forgive me for them.\" André Bettencourt also sheltered Schueller and several collaborators from the French Resistance after Liberation. It was also revealed that Eugène Schueller hired Jacques Correze, who was the honorary head of L'Oréal's U.S. affiliate, Cosmair, and was involved with La Cagoule.\n\nFurther controversy arose when it was revealed that L'Oréal had its German headquarters for over 30 years, before being sold in 1991, on land confiscated from a Jewish family during World War II. The Jewish family has been battling for restitution from the company for three generations, the latest of which is Edith Rosenfelder, a Holocaust survivor. Fritz Rosenfelder, was forced to sell the house to a Nazi official, of which the family never received the proceeds of the sale. Instead, the family was deported. The Allies passed Jewish restitution legislation which states that transactions with Nazis, even if appearing to be with the owner's consent, can be considered invalid. As the land was sold to an offshoot of L'Oréal, which was later bought out in 1961 by L'Oréal, the company claims that it is not responsible for anything that happened before then. The basis for Rosenfelder's argument is that since the original sale was illegal, all subsequent sales are equally unlawful. There was restitution paid in 1951 to the Jewish Restitution Successor Organization, though this was done without the family's consent and none of the money ever reached the family. A book by Monica Waitzfelder, daughter of Edith Rosenfelder, published in French as \"L'Oréal a pris ma maison\" and in English as \"L'Oréal stole my house!\", details how L'Oréal, took over the Waitzfelder home in the German city of Karlsruhe (after the Nazis had engineered the removal of the family) to make it its German headquarters. Monica Waitzfelder is quoted as saying, \"All the other businesses which took Jewish property have since returned it, without any great debate. I don't understand why L'Oréal should be any different from the others.\" A case was brought before the Supreme Court in France, but the public prosecutor ruled that there could be no trial. As of 2007, she is bringing the case to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nFollowing L'Oréal's 2006 purchase of The Body Shop, which does not support animal testing, The Body Shop's founder Anita Roddick was forced to defend herself against allegations of abandoning her principles over L'Oréal's track record on animal testing. Calls were made for shoppers to boycott The Body Shop.\n\nOn 31 July 2014 during Operation Protective Edge launched by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) in the Gaza Strip, the Israel advocacy organisation StandWithUs posted several Facebook photos of care packages, which they said were donated by Garnier Israel to female IDF soldiers. This sparked several calls to boycott Garnier and L'Oreal worldwide. As of no official statement was made by Garnier or L'Oreal regarding the donation.\n\nL'Oréal was fined by Autorité de la concurrence in France in 2016 for price-fixing on personal hygiene products.\n\nBrands are generally categorized by their targeted markets, such as the mass, professional, luxury, and active cosmetics markets. The Body Shop and Galderma are directly attached to the head office. L'Oréal also owns interests in various activities such as fine chemicals, health, finance, design, advertising, and insurance.\n"}
{"id": "39968286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39968286", "title": "Malaysia International Islamic Financial Centre", "text": "Malaysia International Islamic Financial Centre\n\nThe Malaysia International Islamic Financial Centre (MIFC) is an initiative of Malaysia’s financial market regulators and relevant government agencies dedicated to developing Malaysia’s Islamic finance market by engaging with industry and government. The initiative was launched in 2006 and is based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.\n\nThe MIFC is supported by Bank Negara Malaysia, Securities Commission Malaysia, Labuan Financial Services Authority, and Bursa Malaysia. The MIFC’s private sector partners include Islamic banks, conventional banks with Islamic banking windows, investment banks, brokers, lawyers, Shariah advisory firms, Shariah scholars, accounting and tax advisers, ratings agencies and takaful providers.\n\nIslamic finance in Malaysia has developed into a comprehensive and sophisticated Islamic finance marketplace. The marketplace is characterised by a robust regulatory, supervisory, Shariah and legal framework, a deep primary market and active secondary sukuk market, a diverse players and talent base with global capabilities and connectivity for business deals anywhere in the world, product innovation, breadth and depth and an efficient system for multi-currency clearing and settlement.\n\nMalaysia’s Islamic finance marketplace is open to global industry players and market participants to collaborate with and mutually benefit from a highly conducive business environment of innovation, expertise and deal flow.\n\nMalaysia is strategically located at the heart of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), a region that pulses with a population of over 600 million, total GDP of more than USD2 trillion, total trade of USD2.5 trillion and with total FDI of USD108 billion. Being located in ASEAN, one of the world’s fastest growing regions, has attracted a thriving community of participants in the global Islamic finance industry. This has resulted in an integrated, end-to-end marketplace that has been recognised as a global destination for expertise, innovation and deal flow.\n\nMalaysia is a fast-growing economy whose liberal market policies are aimed at promoting trade, entrepreneurship, industrial and economic development. Initiatives undertaken by the Malaysian Government and the private sector have always been investor-centric and business friendly with the aim of encouraging market development. This has transformed Malaysia into one of the most dynamic business environments in Southeast Asia.\n\nCharacteristics of The marketplace\n\nMalaysia remained the key issuer accounting for 69.3% or USD19.73bln of the total quarterly issuance. Cumulatively in 3Q14 YTD, Malaysia represents 64.9% of total issuances this year to date with more than USD61.4bln in new issuances volume, an increase of 6% in absolute volume compared to the USD58.2bln issued in the same period last year.\n\nThe Malaysian sukuk market has been tapped by a wide variety of issuers including benchmark sukuk of various maturities issued by the Malaysian central bank; capital raising and liquidity management sukuk issued by various Malaysian corporate institutions; infrastructure and fund-raising sukuk by the Malaysian government-related entities such as Pengurusan Air SPV Berhad; retail sukuk issued by Dana Infra giving Shariah-compliant capital market fixedincome investment opportunities to individuals; and also by foreign issuers such as Bumitama Agri from Singapore that have issued sukuk in the Malaysian capital markets.\n\nSukuk were also issued denominated in foreign currencies including the world’s first Japanese Yen sukuk. Overall, a total of 114 sukuk tranches were domiciled in the Malaysian sukuk market in 3Q14.\n\nThe \"Emas\" designation is given to foreign-currency denominated sukuk issues. \"Emas\", which means gold in Bahasa Malaysia symbolized universal value and security.\n\nThe Malaysian Islamic financial sector continues its growth trajectory, with robust growth in Islamic banking assets and takaful assets. The Islamic Banking sector in Malaysia has witnessed an increased market share on the back of growing demand for Islamic financial services.\n\nIslamic banking has grown twice as fast in Malaysia as its conventional counterpart at a compounded annual growth rate of 22%, representing 24% to 25%% of total banking system.\n\nThe country is domicile to 11 takaful operators, two of which are foreign owned. The rate of growth in the takaful industry has been gaining traction to become one of the main segments of the country's insurance sector.\n\nRetakaful operators in Malaysia add an extra layer of depth to the takaful industry through the spreading of risk and added capacity so that more risk can be underwritten.\n\nMalaysia’s Islamic finance marketplace has an efficient and transparent price discovery infrastructure. Fund raising and investment activities in the Islamic capital market adhere to Islamic principles. Islamic equity market products in Malaysia include Shariah-compliant equities, Shariah-compliant collective investment schemes (unit trust funds, wholesale funds, I-REITs, I-ETFs), structured products, alternative funds(real estate, leasing, commodities) private equity funds and mixed asset (equity + fixed income + cash).\n\n73% of total listed securities on Bursa Malaysia are Shariah-compliant. The updated list of Shariah-compliant securities approved by its Shariah Advisory Council (SAC), which takes effect on 30 May 2014, features a total of 665 Shariah-compliant securities.\n\nMalaysia had different asset classed to suit various investor needs. The industry in Malaysia grew from two Shariah-compliant unit trust funds in 1993 to more than 220 approved funds. Malaysia’s Islamic fund management industry with RM97.5bil in assets under management, is managed by 20 asset management companies licensed to exclusively manage shariah-compliant funds. Of the total assets under management, RM42bil is in the form of syariah-compliant unit trust funds which grew by 21% in 2013.\n\nThe growth of Islamic finance in the past decade has been extraordinary. As the industry expands into untapped markets, there is a need to develop new talent that understands the industry and its underlying Shariah principles to support this growth. In response, Malaysia has undertaken initiatives to support the development of a highly skilled Islamic finance human capital workforce.\n\nThe MIFC Executive Committee (MIFC EXCO), made up of senior industry and government figures, provides strategic direction to MIFC through policy review and role assignment powers. . The MIFC Promotions Unit serves as a liaison between investors, issuers, investment and Islamic banks, tertiary education institutions and the MIFC.\n\nThe MIFC Promotions Unit has implemented three communications campaigns since its launch in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "57900188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57900188", "title": "Martin Bucksbaum", "text": "Martin Bucksbaum\n\nMartin Bucksbaum (c. 1920 - July 7, 1995) was an American business executive. He served as the chairman and chief executive officer of GGP Inc., a publicly-traded real estate investment trust that invests in shopping centers.\n\nBucksbaum was born circa 1920. His father, Louis Bucksbaum, owned three grocery stores in Marshalltown, Iowa. He had two brothers, Matthew and Maurice. Bucksbaum served in the United States Army during World War II.\n\nWith his brothers Matthew and Maurice, Bucksbaum took a $1.2 million loan to develop Town & Country in Cedar Rapids, Iowa in 1953. At the time, it was one of the first malls in the United States. In 1954, the three brothers co-founded General Growth Properties, now known as GGP Inc.. Bucksbaum served as its chairman and chief executive officer. By 1995, the company owned 21 malls in the US. In Iowa, the malls that Bucksbaum helped develop were located in small towns like Waterloo, Bettendorf, Council Bluffs, Davenport, Sioux City, Cedar Falls, Keokuk, West Burlington, Muscatine as well as cities like Ames and Des Moines. \n\nBucksbaum served on the board of directors of the Offitbank. He was a member of the International Council of Shopping Centers and a governor of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.\n\nBucksbaum married Melva Venezky. They had two sons, Gene and Glenn, and a daughter, Mary. They resided in Des Moines, Iowa. Bucksbaum served on the board of governors of Drake University as well as the national committee of the Whitney Museum of American Art. He was a member of the Marshalltown Masonic Lodge.\n\nBucksbaum died of a heart attack on July 7, 1995 in Des Moines, Iowa, at 74. His funeral was held at Temple B'Nai Jeshurun, and he was buried in the Jewish Glendale Cemetery.\n\nShortly after his death, Bucksbaum was succeeded as chairman and CEO of GPP by his brother Matthew Bucksbaum.\n"}
{"id": "31573544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31573544", "title": "Michel de Kemmeter", "text": "Michel de Kemmeter\n\nMichel de Kemmeter (born ) is a Belgian entrepreneur, real estate investor and author from Ghent. He started in the field of specialized renovation. Since 2005 he researches and writes about personal development, intangible assets and human sustainable development. Today he is an expert in economic transition.\n\nMichel de Kemmeter attended the Rijksuniversiteit Gent University in Belgium. Later on, he attended the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven for the degree in Sales Engineer. His works were published in French language, English and German.\n\nHis first published books were reference books on construction materials, such as natural stone, blue stone and wood. In this field of work, he has started a business specialized on treatment and solutions to pathology of natural stone and chemistry/physics of the stone after installation.\n\nIn 1996 he has started to invest on Real Estate in Belgium and since then has been sharing experiences as investor in private housing with \"Fortune de Briques\" at Éditions Racine.\n\nIn 2001 he worked on the \"Motivation Wheel\", a psychological tool for a circular analysis of human characteristics, such as behavior, values, concerns, needs and desires for inner fulfillment. This work explained about an interpretative framework for connecting \"doing\" and \"being\" through aspirations, fears and internal strengths. The model was designed to be used for corporate aspects, such as corporate culture development, time management and values, evaluation of intangible assets, coaching and individual's mentoring. The 7D-Value approach, based on the 7 levels of value is also used to map excellence and potential of individuals.\n\nLater, in 2005, he published the book \"The Value of Time\" and the \"Die Werte der Zeit\" edition by the publisher Swinti Verlag GmbH, and \"La Valeur du Temps\" in 2006 by Éditions Racine. The book was a work of philosophy and psychology applied to management and life. It gave a different perspective to the Greek nations of \"chronos\", \"kairos\" and \"aion\" in a way to find openness of self to life. Today, he is a consultant and trainer of this subject at the Free University of Brussels and at the University of Louvain-la-Neuve (Louvain School of Management).\n\nDe Kemmeter has started in 2006 a network of reflection and innovation on human development and societal development, named UHDR (Universal Human Development and Research). This network of collaborators has been creating tools for development of human potential, self-connection and experiential conscious mentoring, in collaboration with medics, sportsmen, companies, universities, philosophers and therapists.\n\nSome works of the network were \"7D-Value\" (for purpose, knowledge, communication, processes and emotional balance sheets within companies), and \"Culture Coherence\" (approaching circles of coherence in organizations). These tools aim to give assessments of perceived corporate identity, positioning relative to competitors, values, strengths and development areas, assessment and quantification of intangible assets, customers satisfaction, and a consistency's degree of the company.\n\nIn 2008, he has founded UniverseCité UHDR (UHDR UniverseCity) of Sustainable Human Development, which has the goal of bringing \"soft skills development\" based on concepts of collective intelligence and experimental learning. In his research, he works on transdisciplinarity, on systems theory, systemics, prospective, on sociology and applied psychology.\n\nHe is the inventor of the \"Resources Systemics\" approach, new model for systemic economy and society. It is based on 3 principles: \n(1) Every project, company or organisation should contribute to common good.\n(3) Every project should add value on different levels in its stakeholders ecosystem.\nIt activates underused or hidden resources in its stakeholdres ecosystem for the project. It creates \"multiple value streams\", and thus new solutions, new business models.\nThe result is more agility, faster implementation, less risk, more output with less resources. These resources can only be activated if the project answers needs of stakeholders.\nHe works on transition economy and transition methodologies based on metamorphosis principles. Specialized in updated transition economy principles and models, he brings these new principles to corporations and governments.\n\nHe initiated the \"Club of Brussels\" inside the Economic Transition Center in Brussels, school of new economic thinking. A group of 250 experts worldwide. It is an international network of ready-for-change human beings. The idea is not only to think about the new economic models based on systemic use of resources, but also to implement actions for the promotion of economic transition.\n\n\n\n\n\nPublishers:\n"}
{"id": "2248253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248253", "title": "Negligence in employment", "text": "Negligence in employment\n\nNegligence in employment encompasses several causes of action in tort law that arise where an employer is held liable for the tortious acts of an employee because that employer was negligent in providing the employee with the ability to engage in a particular act. Four basic causes of action may arise from such a scenario: negligent hiring, negligent retention, negligent supervision and negligent training. While negligence in employment may overlap with negligent entrustment and vicarious liability, the concepts are distinct grounds of liability.\n\nAs with all negligence claims, the claimant must prove four elements:\n\nIn order for such a duty to exist, the injury to the claimant must be \"reasonably foreseeable\", meaning, for example, that the type of employment must be one in which an unfit employee could cause harm of the type which occurred, and the claimant is the type of person to whom such harm would be a \"reasonably foreseeable consequence\".\n\nNegligent hiring may be found where the employee (the tortfeasor) had a reputation or record that showed his/her propensity to misuse the kind of authority given by the employer, and this record would have been easily discoverable by the employer, had the employer exercised 'due diligence'. For example, a victim of sexual harassment in the workplace may have a cause of action for negligent hiring on the part of her employer if she can show that the employer was aware of the harasser's termination from a previous position for the same behaviour.\n\nIn the sexual harassment example described above, the employer may be held liable for negligent hiring if the harasser had a previous history of harassment. This is because an employer has an obligation to its employees and others who will come in contact with them to provide a safe and productive working environment.\n\nOne preventive measure for negligent hiring is to perform a reasonable investigation on potential employees. This may include conducting interviews, verifying work and educational histories, checking references and conducting a background check on all applicants who have accepted an offer of conditional hire, and if an adverse assessment is found, to deny employment to such an applicant.\n\nNote that simply conducting a criminal background check on an applicant may not be a sufficient investigation. In Minnesota, for example, such a check was determined to be insufficient by the court in \"Ponticas v. K.M.S. Investments,\" 331 N.W.2d 907 (Minn. 1983). This will not guarantee the employer will not be held liable, but it will show that the employer used a diligent search to screen potential harassers from the workplace, and will assist the employer in demonstrating that it took reasonable care in hiring.\nIt is important to also note that, in the United States, background checks for job applicants are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (2003). If an adverse assessment is found in an employment screen, the applicant has the right to dispute the report.\n\nNegligent retention occurs where a party failed to remove an employee from a position of authority or responsibility after it became apparent that the employee was in fact misusing that authority or responsibility in a way that posed a danger to others.\n\nNegligent supervision is closely related, as it occurs where a party fails to reasonably monitor or control the actions of an employee. A variation of negligent retention or supervision is negligent training, which arises where the employer's training of the employee fails to prevent the employee from engaging in the acts that injure the claimant, or fails to remediate a pattern of behaviour which leads to an injury. Suits for negligent retention often plead negligent supervision or training as an alternate theory, as the employer who knows of an employee's improper conduct should either terminate that employee, or take steps to penalise that conduct and/or train the employee not to engage in that conduct.\n\nNegligent entrustment arises where the entrustor is held liable for negligence because they negligently provided the entrustee with a dangerous instrument, and the entrusted party caused injury to a third party with that instrument. \nWhere such a claim is brought against an employer, the employer will be held liable if the entrustee's record was known, or would have been easily discoverable, to the employer. For example, if a bus company hires a driver who has a record of reckless driving, of which the company could have learned through a search of publicly available records, the company would be liable for the negligent entrustment of the bus to that driver, should the driver cause an accident.\n\nNegligent entrustment differs from negligent hiring, retention, supervision, and training in two key respects. \n\nVicarious liability is a separate theory of liability, which provides that an employer is liable for the torts of an employee under an agency theory, even if the employer did nothing wrong. The principle is that the acts of an agent of the company are assumed, by law, to be the acts of the company itself, provided the tortfeasor was acting within the course of his employment.\n\nBy contrast, each of the above negligence theories requires proof of actual negligence on part of the employer \"before\" the injury occurred, for example when the employee was first hired.\n"}
{"id": "50552199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50552199", "title": "Nezu Kaichirō", "text": "Nezu Kaichirō\n\nBorn into an established merchant family in Yamanashi, Yamanashi Prefecture, he moved to Tokyo in 1897, and became independently wealthy through stock investments.\n\nNezu was elected as a member of the House of Representatives in the National Diet in 1904 and won three subsequent reelections. He was elevated to the House of Peers in 1926.\n\nIn 1905 Nezu became President of Tobu Railway and successfully helped to grow the company to one of the largest private rail operators in the Kanto region. Other business interests included managerial and shareholding roles in Tokyo Basha Tetsudo (Tokyo Horse-Drawn Carriage Railways), Tokyo Dento (Tokyo electric Light Company) and in Tokyo Gas.\n\nAccompanying Shibusawa Eiichi on a trade mission to the United States in 1909, Nezu was inspired by American industrialist's enthusiasm for civic and philanthropic activities. On his return to Japan Nezu founded and donated to a number of new educational and cultural initiatives including Musashi Junior and Senior High School.\n\nNezu was a keen practitioner of the Japanese tea ceremony and his extensive private collection of pre-modern Japanese and East Asian art, served as the basis for the Nezu Museum in Minato, Tokyo. The museum buildings were rebuilt in 2006 to modern design by Japanese architect Kengo Kuma, but the gardens of the museum also retain multiple traditional Chashitsu structures for tea ceremony gatherings.\n\nConstructed in 1933, Nezu's family home in Yamanashi has been preserved as the Nezu Memorial Museum. The main house, gate house and three story Kura (storehouse), were listed as registered tangible cultural properties in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "2305881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305881", "title": "Octav Botnar", "text": "Octav Botnar\n\nOctav Botnar (October 21, 1913 – July 11, 1998) was a self-made businessman who founded Datsun UK (later Nissan UK) and its associated car retail business Automotive Financial Group (AFG). He was a noted philanthropist, who donated over £100 million in his lifetime.\n\nHe was born in Chernivtsi, which was then called Czernowitz and belonged to Austria-Hungary. During his childhood, in 1918, Austria-Hungary dissolved and his hometown, renamed Cernăuţi, became part of Romania. Under its present name it is now part of Ukraine.\n\nHe spent 1932–1936 in prison. Afterwards, he moved to France, where he joined the French Resistance and fought against the Nazis in World War II. He returned to Romania in 1946 and remained there until 1960. In 1966, he fled Communist Eastern Europe and ended up in Worthing in England. It was in Worthing where he founded Datsun UK (now Nissan UK) in 1970. \n\nBotnar had originally run the UK import business for the German manufacturer NSU, however this business was dissolved when NSU was taken over by Volkswagen in 1969 (ultimately becoming Audi), and Botnar was looking for a new venutre. He successfully became the UK franchisee and importer for Nissan, and its Datsun range of cars. Under Botnar's leadership, Datsun had become one of the biggest car imports in Britain, outselling not only its arch Japanese rival Toyota but eventually became the most popular foreign brand in the UK. At its peak, Botnar owned more than 200 Nissan dealerships throughout the country and was considered one of Britain's wealthiest men. \n\nOctav's only child, Camelia Botnar was killed in a car crash near Stonehenge in 1968 at the age of 20. Her death led to a wave of philanthropy that saw Botnar donate millions to charity throughout his later life. One of his larger donations was £13 million to London's Great Ormond Street Hospital. He also established the \"Camelia Botnar Foundation\" in his daughters memory. The foundation is still active today, providing residential training and work experience, helping young people to learn a skilled trade, embark on a useful career path and successfully make their own way in life.\n\nIn June 1991, the Inland Revenue raided Nissan UK's headquarters, as well as Mr. Botnar's home and the homes of other company officials. The tax authority accused Botnar of evading more than £200 million in taxes. Botnar left for Switzerland and lived there for the rest of his life in Villars-sur-Ollon. \n\nThe Nissan UK and AFG businesses subsequently foundered, after Nissan took its UK distribution and import activities completely in-house in 1991.\n\nAlthough Botnar maintained his innocence up until his final hours, he had agreed to pay £59 million to settle the case. Following settling, he opened a suit against the Inland Revenue for damages and malicious prosecution. At the time he said: \"The damages I am seeking are only token, but I want to clear my name. I want my day in court\". \n\nBotnar spent his last years as a tax exile in Switzerland fighting the Inland Revenue. \n\nHe died on July 11th 1998 at the age of 84 after suffering from stomach cancer. He is buried in the Passy Cemetery, Paris. Tory party chairman Lord Parkinson once described Botnar as <nowiki>\"truly one of our greatest philanthropists\"</nowiki>. \n\nA biography of the life of Octav Botnar, written by John Laughland is due to be published in October 2018. The book will be available for purchase from OMC Investments Limited. \n\n\n7. Octav Botnar , www.omci.co.uk/founder \n\n8. Biography of Octav Botnar, www.omci.co.uk/biography \n"}
{"id": "47059196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47059196", "title": "Open Food Facts", "text": "Open Food Facts\n\nOpen Food Facts is a free, online and crowdsourced database of food products from around the world licensed under the Open Database License (ODBL) while its artwork —uploaded by contributors— is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike license.\n\nThe project was launched on 19 May 2012 by French programmer Stéphane Gigandet during the \"Food Revolution Day\" organized by Jamie Oliver and has won the \"2013 Dataconnexions Award\" from Etalab and the 2015 OKFN Award from Open Knowledge.\n\nIn May 2016, its database contained more than 80,000 products from 141 countries. In June 2017, thanks to the growing ecosystem of apps and open data imports from various countries, this number rose to 330,000.\n\nThe project gathers information and data on food products from around the world.\n\nFor each item, the database stores its generic name, quantity, type of packaging, brand, category, manufacturing or processing locations, countries and stores where the product is sold, list of ingredients, any traces (for allergies, dietary laws or any specific diet), food additives and nutritional information.\n\nEach contributor can add or edit food items based on the information explicitly shown on the package. As a result, the barcode (when available) is generally used as the identifier. Mobile phone applications allow for capturing photos and information that are reprocessed manually by volunteers.\n\nDue to similar mechanisms for modification, extension, or deletion of content and structure, the project is sometimes compared to Wikipedia in the media.\n\nThe data is reused by various projects on issues related to palm oil, sugar, and location of the producers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25124217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25124217", "title": "Our World with Black Enterprise", "text": "Our World with Black Enterprise\n\nOur World with Black Enterprise is a weekly television show currently hosted by Paul Brunson, and, during its first season, Marc Lamont Hill which is produced by Black Enterprise, Inc. It airs on Saturday and Sunday across a range of local television stations and focuses on various issues of interest to the urban (i.e. Black) general and upwardly mobile community. \n\n"}
{"id": "3896816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3896816", "title": "Peter Bawden", "text": "Peter Bawden\n\nPeter Colwell Bawden, (January 1, 1929 – February 28, 1991) was a prominent Canadian oilman, cabinet minister, former Member of Parliament and in 1990 was appointed as an Officer of the Order of Canada. Bawden was elected to the House of Commons of Canada representing the riding of Calgary South, the heart of Canada’s oil industry. A Progressive Conservative, he was re-elected in 1974.\n\n Bawden founded and built the world’s largest (at the time) privately owned oil and gas drilling company. In business for over 35 years, and consisting of a large fleet of offshore and land rigs operated from offices worldwide, Bawden Drilling worked closely with Shell Oil, Mobil Corporation and Dome Petroleum, among others.\n\nHe moved to Alberta in the fall of 1950 and founded Peter Bawden Drilling in 1952 shortly after his arrival in Calgary. In 1960, at the age of 31, Peter Bawden’s first drilling rig struck oil. With its acquisition of Trident Drilling, Bawden Drilling became Canada’s largest drilling company. In 1968, Peter Bawden Drilling acquired Brown Drilling in California. Thereafter, as a land drilling contractor, Bawden expanded the company's on-shore operations throughout North America, from the Arctic to the Gulf of Mexico, to Norway, Algeria, Australia, New Guinea, Indonesia, Philippines, Guatemala, Venezuela, Colombia, Madagascar, and the Middle East. Eventually having operations on every continent in the world.\n\nA notable contribution of the Bawden organization was the development of Canadian oilfield expertise and technology in many parts of the world. Bawden’s first offshore assignments began in 1968 off the coast of Australia where the company operated that continent’s first self-containing platform rigs. In the North Sea, Bawden Drilling became the largest development-drilling contractor in the United Kingdom. Well known for technological, industry advances, Bawden designed and built the world’s largest (at that time) semi-submersible rig for Shell Oil. They also had large platform rig operations off the California coast, in the Persian Gulf and off the coast of Malaysia.\n\nBawden set many industry records including drilling a deviated well -11,324 feet in eighteen days from a fixed platform in the North Sea. Other notable rigs were located in the middle of the Pasadena Raceway and behind the Beverly Hills high school. He was a visionary trailblazer in his 1964 activities to promote Canada as an exporter of LNG (Liquefied Petroleum Gases). In 1977, he created Mosswood Oil & Gas expanding into oil production.\n\nPeter Bawden committed his life to the search for oil, gas and geothermal energy. Geothermal Drilling was a Bawden specialty with over 20 years of experience in the challenging tapping of hot water and steam reservoirs. Bawden won numerous industry awards for its emphasis on safety. The company also received the Canadian Export Award in 1985 and Export Achievement Awards in the years 1981, 1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986.\n\n Bawden was honored in 1990 as an Officer of the Order of Canada for being \"largely responsible for pioneering oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Circle and for the international transfer of Canadian expertise and technology in this field\". Peter Bawden was the first drilling contractor to drill in the Canadian Arctic where the harsh and remote environment demanded special logistical planning. He is recognized for the first offshore crude oil discovery in Canadian history on Sable Island earning the cover story of Mobil Corporation's magazine in 1971.\n\nHis community service included acting as a Director in the Business Council of National Issues, Calgary Special Olympics and Trustee of the Canadian Olympic Association and Wycliffe College in Toronto. His membership included Canada West Foundation, Ducks Unlimited Canada, and he was an Honorary Colonel of the 14th (Calgary) Service Battalion, Honorary Vice-President of the Calgary Regional Council of the Boy Scouts of Canada and Director of the Confederation of Church and Business People, and he was the founding donor to The Calgary Foundation.\n\nPeter Bawden served as a director on a number of prestigious Canadian companies including Barclays Bank, Air Canada, Boeing, Safeway, Procor Limited, Jannock Ltd, Westair Resources Ltd and Mosswood Oil & Gas Ltd. He was a member of the Business Council on National Issues, the World Business Council and the Washington Quarterly Roundtable.\n\nA pilot at age 17, Bawden also made a substantial contribution to the aviation industry and founded in 1991, Executive Flight Centre, Canada's largest aviation service company, including a large fleet of planes and jets.\n\nBorn into the Toronto establishment, Peter Bawden attended Upper Canada College in Toronto. He was the son of Harry Norman Bawden, who was President, CEO and later Vice Chairman of Dominion Securities, one of Canada’s largest investment banks before it was acquired by the Royal Bank of Canada in 1996.\n\nHarry Bawden was Director of the War Finance Committee; a board member of Molson's Brewery; a board member of Dominion Foundries & Steel, among others.\n\nDuring the late 1950s and 1960s the Peter Bawden chuck wagon dominated the World Chuck Wagon Races at the Calgary Stampede and broke several world track records.\n\n"}
{"id": "13228814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13228814", "title": "Production (economics)", "text": "Production (economics)\n\nProduction is a process of combining various material inputs and immaterial inputs (plans, know-how) in order to make something for consumption (the output). It is the act of creating output, a good or service which has value and contributes to the utility of individuals.\n\nEconomic well-being is created in a production process, meaning all economic activities that aim directly or indirectly to satisfy human wants and needs. The degree to which the needs are satisfied is often accepted as a measure of economic well-being. In production there are two features which explain increasing economic well-being. They are improving quality-price-ratio of goods and services and increasing incomes from growing and more efficient market production.\n\nThe most important forms of production are:\n\nIn order to understand the origin of the economic well-being, we must understand these three production processes. All of them produce commodities which have value and contribute to well-being of individuals.\n\nThe satisfaction of needs originates from the use of the commodities which are produced. The need satisfaction increases when the quality-price-ratio of the commodities improves and more satisfaction is achieved at less cost. Improving the quality-price-ratio of commodities is to a producer an essential way to improve the competitiveness of products but this kind of gains distributed to customers cannot be measured with production data. Improving the competitiveness of products means often to the producer lower product prices and therefore losses in incomes which are to compensated with the growth of sales volume.\n\nEconomic well-being also increases due to the growth of incomes that are gained from the growing and more efficient market production. Market production is the only production form which creates and distributes incomes to stakeholders. Public production and household production are financed by the incomes generated in market production. Thus market production has a double role in creating well-being, i.e. the role of producing goods and services and the role of creating income. Because of this double role market production is the “primus motor” of economic well-being and therefore here under review.\n\nIn principle there are two main activities in an economy, production and consumption. Similarly there are two kinds of actors, producers and consumers. Well-being is made possible by efficient production and by the interaction between producers and consumers. In the interaction, consumers can be identified in two roles both of which generate well-being. Consumers can be both customers of the producers and suppliers to the producers. The customers’ well-being arises from the commodities they are buying and the suppliers’ well-being is related to the income they receive as compensation for the production inputs they have delivered to the producers.\n\nStakeholders of production are persons, groups or organizations with an interest in a producing company. Economic well-being originates in efficient production and it is distributed through the interaction between the company’s stakeholders. The stakeholders of companies are economic actors which have an economic interest in a company. Based on the similarities of their interests, stakeholders can be classified into three groups in order to differentiate their interests and mutual relations. The three groups are as follows:\nThe interests of these stakeholders and their relations to companies are described briefly below. Our purpose is to establish a framework for further analysis. \n\"Customers\"\n\nThe customers of a company are typically consumers, other market producers or producers in the public sector. Each of them has their individual production functions. Due to competition, the price-quality-ratios of commodities tend to improve and this brings the benefits of better productivity to customers. Customers get more for less. In households and the public sector this means that more need satisfaction is achieved at less cost. For this reason the productivity of customers can increase over time even though their incomes remain unchanged.\n\n\"Suppliers\"\n\nThe suppliers of companies are typically producers of materials, energy, capital, and services. They all have their individual production functions. The changes in prices or qualities of supplied commodities have an effect on both actors’ (company and suppliers) production functions. We come to the conclusion that the production functions of the company and its suppliers are in a state of continuous change.\n\n\"Producer community\"\n\nThe incomes are generated for those participating in production, i.e., the labour force, society and owners. These stakeholders are referred to here as producer communities or, in shorter form, as producers. The producer communities have a common interest in maximizing their incomes. These parties that contribute to production receive increased incomes from the growing and developing production.\n\nThe well-being gained through commodities stems from the price-quality relations of the commodities. Due to competition and development in the market, the price-quality relations of commodities tend to improve over time. Typically the quality of a commodity goes up and the price goes down over time. This development favourably affects the production functions of customers. Customers get more for less. Consumer customers get more satisfaction at less cost. This type of well-being generation can only partially be calculated from the production data. The situation is presented in this study.\nThe producer community (labour force, society, and owners) earns income as compensation for the inputs they have delivered to the production. When the production grows and becomes more efficient, the income tends to increase. In production this brings about an increased ability to pay salaries, taxes and profits. The growth of production and improved productivity generate additional income for the producing community. Similarly the high income level achieved in the community is a result of the high volume of production and its good performance. This type of well-being generation – as mentioned earlier - can be reliably calculated from the production data.\n\nA producing company can be divided into sub-processes in different ways; yet, the following five are identified as main processes, each with a logic, objectives, theory and key figures of its own. It is important to examine each of them individually, yet, as a part of the whole, in order to be able to measure and understand them. The main processes of a company are as follows:\n\nProduction output is created in the real process, gains of production are distributed in the income distribution process and these two processes constitute the production process. The production process and its sub-processes, the real process and income distribution process occur simultaneously, and only the production process is identifiable and measurable by the traditional accounting practices. The real process and income distribution process can be identified and measured by extra calculation, and this is why they need to be analyzed separately in order to understand the logic of production and its performance.\n\nReal process generates the production output from input, and it can be described by means of the production function. It refers to a series of events in production in which production inputs of different quality and quantity are combined into products of different quality and quantity. Products can be physical goods, immaterial services and most often combinations of both. The characteristics created into the product by the producer imply surplus value to the consumer, and on the basis of the market price this value is shared by the consumer and the producer in the marketplace. This is the mechanism through which surplus value originates to the consumer and the producer likewise. Surplus values to customers cannot be measured from any production data. Instead the surplus value to a producer can be measured. It can be expressed both in terms of nominal and real values. The real surplus value to the producer is an outcome of the real process, real income, and measured proportionally it means productivity.\n\nThe concept “real process” in the meaning quantitative structure of production process was introduced in Finnish management accounting in 1960s. Since then it has been a cornerstone in the Finnish management accounting theory. (Riistama et al. 1971)\n\nIncome distribution process of the production refers to a series of events in which the unit prices of constant-quality products and inputs alter causing a change in income distribution among those participating in the exchange. The magnitude of the change in income distribution is directly proportionate to the change in prices of the output and inputs and to their quantities. Productivity gains are distributed, for example, to customers as lower product sales prices or to staff as higher income pay.\n\nThe production process consists of the real process and the income distribution process. A result and a criterion of success of the owner is profitability. The profitability of production is the share of the real process result the owner has been able to keep to himself in the income distribution process. Factors describing the production process are the components of profitability, i.e., returns and costs. They differ from the factors of the real process in that the components of profitability are given at nominal prices whereas in the real process the factors are at periodically fixed prices.\n\nMonetary process refers to events related to financing the business. Market value process refers to a series of events in which investors determine the market value of the company in the investment markets.\n\nEconomic growth is often defined as a production increase of an output of a production process. It is usually expressed as a growth percentage depicting growth of the real production output. The real output is the real value of products produced in a production process and when we subtract the real input from the real output we get the real income. The real output and the real income are generated by the real process of production from the real inputs.\n\nThe real process can be described by means of the production function. The production function is a graphical or mathematical expression showing the relationship between the inputs used in production and the output achieved. Both graphical and mathematical expressions are presented and demonstrated. The production function is a simple description of the mechanism of income generation in production process. It consists of two components. These components are a change in production input and a change in productivity.\n\nThe figure illustrates an income generation process(exaggerated for clarity). The Value T2 (value at time 2) represents the growth in output from Value T1 (value at time 1). Each time of measurement has its own graph of the production function for that time (the straight lines). The output measured at time 2 is greater than the output measured at time one for both of the components of growth: an increase of inputs and an increase of productivity. The portion of growth caused by the increase in inputs is shown on line 1 and does not change the relation between inputs and outputs. The portion of growth caused by an increase in productivity is shown on line 2 with a steeper slope. So increased productivity represents greater output per unit of input.\n\nThe growth of production output does not reveal anything about the performance of the production process. The performance of production measures production’s ability to generate income. Because the income from production is generated in the real process, we call it the real income. Similarly, as the production function is an expression of the real process, we could also call it “income generated by the production function”.\n\nThe real income generation follows the logic of the production function. Two components can also be distinguished in the income change: the income growth caused by an increase in production input (production volume) and the income growth caused by an increase in productivity. The income growth caused by increased production volume is determined by moving along the production function graph. The income growth corresponding to a shift of the production function is generated by the increase in productivity. The change of real income so signifies a move from the point 1 to the point 2 on the production function (above). When we want to maximize the production performance we have to maximize the income generated by the production function.\n\nThe sources of productivity growth and production volume growth are explained as follows. Productivity growth is seen as the key economic indicator of innovation. The successful introduction of new products and new or altered processes, organization structures, systems, and business models generates growth of output that exceeds the growth of inputs. This results in growth in productivity or output per unit of input. Income growth can also take place without innovation through replication of established technologies. With only replication and without innovation, output will increase in proportion to inputs. (Jorgenson et al. 2014,2) This is the case of income growth through production volume growth.\n\nJorgenson et al. (2014,2) give an empiric example. They show that the great preponderance of economic growth in the US since 1947 involves the replication of existing technologies through investment in equipment, structures, and software and expansion of the labor force. Further they show that innovation accounts for only about twenty percent of US economic growth.\n\nIn the case of a single production process (described above) the output is defined as an economic value of products and services produced in the process. When we want to examine an entity of many production processes we have to sum up the value-added created in the single processes. This is done in order to avoid the double accounting of intermediate inputs. Value-added is obtained by subtracting the intermediate inputs from the outputs. The most well-known and used measure of value-added is the GDP (Gross Domestic Product). It is widely used as a measure of the economic growth of nations and industries.\n\nThe production performance can be measured as an average or an absolute income. Expressing performance both in average (avg.) and absolute (abs.) quantities is helpful for understanding the welfare effects of production. For measurement of the average production performance, we use the known productivity ratio\n\n\nThe absolute income of performance is obtained by subtracting the real input from the real output as follows:\n\nThe growth of the real income is the increase of the economic value which can be distributed between the production stakeholders. With the aid of the production model we can perform the average and absolute accounting in one calculation. Maximizing production performance requires using the absolute measure, i.e. the real income and its derivatives as a criterion of production performance.\n\nMaximizing productivity also leads to the phenomenon called \"jobless growth\" This refers to economic growth as a result of productivity growth but without creation of new jobs and new incomes from them. A practical example illustrates the case. When a jobless person obtains a job in market production we may assume it is a low productivity job. As a result, average productivity decreases but the real income per capita increases. Furthermore, the well-being of the society also grows. This example reveals the difficulty to interpret the total productivity change correctly. The combination of volume increase and total productivity decrease leads in this case to the improved performance because we are on the “diminishing returns” area of the production function. If we are on the part of “increasing returns” on the production function, the combination of production volume increase and total productivity increase leads to improved production performance. Unfortunately we do not know in practice on which part of the production function we are. Therefore, a correct interpretation of a performance change is obtained only by measuring the real income change.\n\nA production model is a numerical description of the production process and is based on the prices and the quantities of inputs and outputs. There are two main approaches to operationalize the concept of production function. We can use mathematical formulae, which are typically used in macroeconomics (in growth accounting) or arithmetical models, which are typically used in microeconomics and management accounting. We do not present the former approach here but refer to the survey “Growth accounting” by Hulten 2009.\n\nWe use here arithmetical models because they are like the models of management accounting, illustrative and easily understood and applied in practice. Furthermore, they are integrated to management accounting, which is a practical advantage. A major advantage of the arithmetical model is its capability to depict production function as a part of production process. Consequently, production function can be understood, measured, and examined as a part of production process.\n\nThere are different production models according to different interests. Here we use a production income model and a production analysis model in order to demonstrate production function as a phenomenon and a measureable quantity.\n\nThe scale of success run by a going concern is manifold, and there are no criteria that might be universally applicable to success. Nevertheless, there is one criterion by which we can generalise the rate of success in production. This criterion is the ability to produce surplus value. As a criterion of profitability, surplus value refers to the difference between returns and costs, taking into consideration the costs of equity in addition to the costs included in the profit and loss statement as usual. Surplus value indicates that the output has more value than the sacrifice made for it, in other words, the output value is higher than the value (production costs) of the used inputs. If the surplus value is positive, the owner’s profit expectation has been surpassed.\n\nThe table presents a surplus value calculation. We call this set of production data a basic example and we use the data through the article in illustrative production models. The basic example is a simplified profitability calculation used for illustration and modelling. Even as reduced, it comprises all phenomena of a real measuring situation and most importantly the change in the output-input mix between two periods. Hence, the basic example works as an illustrative “scale model” of production without any features of a real measuring situation being lost. In practice, there may be hundreds of products and inputs but the logic of measuring does not differ from that presented in the basic example.\n\nIn this context we define the quality requirements for the production data used in productivity accounting. The most important criterion of good measurement is the homogenous quality of the measurement object. If the object is not homogenous, then the measurement result may include changes in both quantity and quality but their respective shares will remain unclear. In productivity accounting this criterion requires that every item of output and input must appear in accounting as being homogenous. In other words, the inputs and the outputs are not allowed to be aggregated in measuring and accounting. If they are aggregated, they are no longer homogenous and hence the measurement results may be biased.\n\nBoth the absolute and relative surplus value have been calculated in the example. Absolute value is the difference of the output and input values and the relative value is their relation, respectively. The surplus value calculation in the example is at a nominal price, calculated at the market price of each period.\n\nA model used here is a typical production analysis model by help of which it is possible to calculate the outcome of the real process, income distribution process and production process. The starting point is a profitability calculation using surplus value as a criterion of profitability. The surplus value calculation is the only valid measure for understanding the connection between profitability and productivity or understanding the connection between real process and production process. A valid measurement of total productivity necessitates considering all production inputs, and the surplus value calculation is the only calculation to conform to the requirement. If we omit an input in productivity or income accounting, this means that the omitted input can be used unlimitedly in production without any cost impact on accounting results.\n\nThe process of calculating is best understood by applying the term \"ceteris paribus\", i.e. \"all other things being the same,\" stating that at a time only the impact of one changing factor be introduced to the phenomenon being examined. Therefore, the calculation can be presented as a process advancing step by step. First, the impacts of the income distribution process are calculated, and then, the impacts of the real process on the profitability of the production.\n\nThe first step of the calculation is to separate the impacts of the real process and the income distribution process, respectively, from the change in profitability (285.12 – 266.00 = 19.12). This takes place by simply creating one auxiliary column (4) in which a surplus value calculation is compiled using the quantities of Period 1 and the prices of Period 2. In the resulting profitability calculation, Columns 3 and 4 depict the impact of a change in income distribution process on the profitability and in Columns 4 and 7 the impact of a change in real process on the profitability.\n\nThe accounting results are easily interpreted and understood. We see that the real income has increased by 58.12 units from which 41.12 units come from the increase of productivity growth and the rest 17.00 units come from the production volume growth. The total increase of real income (58.12) is distributed to the stakeholders of production, in this case 39.00 units to the customers and to the suppliers of inputs and the rest 19.12 units to the owners.\n\nHere we can make an important conclusion. Income formation of production is always a balance between income generation and income distribution. The income change created in a real process (i.e. by production function) is always distributed to the stakeholders as economic values within the review period. Accordingly, the changes in real income and income distribution are always equal in terms of economic value.\n\nBased on the accounted changes of productivity and production volume values we can explicitly conclude on which part of the production function the production is. The rules of interpretations are the following:\n\nThe production is on the part of “increasing returns” on the production function, when\n\nThe production is on the part of “diminishing returns” on the production function, when\n\nIn the basic example the combination of volume growth (+17.00) and productivity growth (+41.12) reports explicitly that the production is on the part of “increasing returns” on the production function (Saari 2006 a, 138–144).\n\nAnother production model (Production Model Saari 1989) also gives details of the income distribution (Saari 2011,14). Because the accounting techniques of the two models are different, they give differing, although complementary, analytical information. The accounting results are, however, identical. We do not present the model here in detail but we only use its detailed data on income distribution, when the objective functions are formulated in the next section.\n\nAn efficient way to improve the understanding of production performance is to formulate different objective functions according to the objectives of the different interest groups. Formulating the objective function necessitates defining the variable to be maximized (or minimized). After that other variables are considered as constraints or free variables. The most familiar objective function is profit maximization which is also included in this case. Profit maximization is an objective function that stems from the owner’s interest and all other variables are constraints in relation to maximizing of profits in the organization.\n\nThe procedure for formulating different objective functions, in terms of the production model, is introduced next. In the income formation from production the following objective functions can be identified:\nThese cases are illustrated using the numbers from the basic example. The following symbols are used in the presentation:\nThe equal sign (=) signifies the starting point of the computation or the result of computing and the plus or minus sign (+ / -) signifies a variable that is to be added or subtracted from the function. A producer means here the producer community, i.e. labour force, society and owners.\n\nObjective function formulations can be expressed in a single calculation which concisely illustrates the logic of the income generation, the income distribution and the variables to be maximized.\n\nThe calculation resembles an income statement starting with the income generation and ending with the income distribution. The income generation and the distribution are always in balance so that their amounts are equal. In this case it is 58.12 units. The income which has been generated in the real process is distributed to the stakeholders during the same period. There are three variables which can be maximized. They are the real income, the producer income and the owner income. Producer income and owner income are practical quantities because they are addable quantities and they can be computed quite easily. Real income is normally not an addable quantity and in many cases it is difficult to calculate.\n\nHere we have to add that the change of real income can also be computed from the changes in income distribution. We have to identify the unit price changes of outputs and inputs and calculate their profit impacts (i.e. unit price change x quantity). The change of real income is the sum of these profit impacts and the change of owner income. This approach is called the dual approach because the framework is seen in terms of prices instead of quantities (ONS 3, 23).\n\nThe dual approach has been recognized in growth accounting for long but its interpretation has remained unclear. The following question has remained unanswered: “Quantity based estimates of the residual are interpreted as a shift in the production function, but what is the interpretation of the price-based growth estimates?” (Hulten 2009, 18). We have demonstrated above that the real income change is achieved by quantitative changes in production and the income distribution change to the stakeholders is its dual. In this case the duality means that the same accounting result is obtained by accounting the change of the total income generation (real income) and by accounting the change of the total income distribution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44992543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44992543", "title": "Richard A. Walsh", "text": "Richard A. Walsh\n\nRichard A. Walsh (November 25, 1930 – January 25, 2005) was an American lawyer and politician.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Walsh served in the United States Navy from 1954 to 1957. He received his bachelor's degree from Loyola University Chicago and his law degree from Loyola University Chicago School of Law. He practiced law in Illinois and Wisconsin. He served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 1963 until 1977 and then in the Illinois State Senate from 1977 until 1983 and was a Republican. His uncle Arthur J. Bidwill and his brother William D. Walsh also served in the Illinois General Assembly. Walsh died in River Forest, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "39313902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39313902", "title": "Robert Black (mayor)", "text": "Robert Black (mayor)\n\nRobert Sheriff Black (1868 – 4 January 1939) was Mayor of Dunedin from 1929 to 1933. \n\nBlack was born in Liverpool in 1868 and migrated to Melbourne in Victoria, Australia. He came to New Zealand in 1897, where he entered the trade of exporting rabbit skins. In 1924, he married Helen Black, who was 30 years his junior. Black already had adult sons who were his wife's age, and together they had a further two sons and two daughters.\n\nHe first stood for the Dunedin mayoralty in 1919, but was beaten by William Begg. He won election in 1929 and served for two terms until the 1933 election, when he was beaten by Edwin Thomas Cox. He stood in the in the electorate as an independent candidate in support of the United Party, but withdrew shortly before the election, too late for his name to be removed from the ballot.\n\nHe died in Dunedin on 4 January 1939.\n"}
{"id": "1546480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1546480", "title": "Rockefeller", "text": "Rockefeller\n\nRockefeller is a German surname, originally given to people from the village of Rockenfeld near Neuwied in the Rhineland. It may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25309324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25309324", "title": "Scott Bolzan", "text": "Scott Bolzan\n\nScott Louis Bolzan (born July 25, 1962) is a motivational speaker, author, entrepreneur, former NFL and USFL football player, and the founder and CEO of Legendary Jets in Tempe, Arizona. In December 2008, he suffered a brain injury which has left him with profound retrograde amnesia. Scott, along with Joan Bolzan and Caitlin Rother, have written a book titled \"My Life: Deleted\", which was published by Harper Collins and was released on October 4, 2011. \"My Life: Deleted\" appeared on The New York Times Best Seller List on October 8 at #16 for ebooks non-fiction and #29 for combined hardcover and ebooks non-fiction.\n\nScott Bolzan was born to Louis and Alice Bolzan in 1962. He grew up in Chicago, Illinois where he attended Northern Illinois University from 1980 to 1984 on a full athletic scholarship. It was there that he met his wife, Joan, whom he married in 1984.\n\nIn college, Bolzan played football for the Northern Illinois Huskies. After graduating, he went on to play professionally, though his career lasted only two years.\n\nBolzan was drafted in May 1984 by the New England Patriots in the 9th round. He was waived by the Patriots in August of that year.\n\nHe went on to play for the Memphis Showboats in the USFL in 1985.\n\nBolzan was then picked up by the Cleveland Browns in May 1985 and later waived in September 1985. He was re-signed later in the month and cut in October. Bolzan was signed by the Browns again in May 1986. He was injured in August 1986 and retired soon after.\n\nAfter his football career ended due to an injury, Bolzan entered the financial services field where he owned his own financial planning firm specializing in insurance and investments. After moving to Arizona in 1993, he took up aviation, and later developed West Jet Aircraft—a charter company specializing in the charter of Lear Jets and King Airs in the Scottsdale area of Arizona. West Jet grew to become the Number 1 Charter Operator in Arizona according to \"Arizona Ranking Magazine\" in 2007. He sold West Jet aircraft in February 2008 and opened the doors of Legendary Jets shortly after, where he is the CEO/Founder specializing in private jet management.\n\nOn December 17, 2008, Scott Bolzan slipped in the men's bathroom at his place of work. He says his last \"actual memory\" was \"my feet going above my head\". The fall caused a severe concussion. Bolzan was initially told his memory loss was normal and temporary, but as months passed by and he still did not remember any part of his life before the fall, he revealed his condition to his wife and they sought help from neurologists.\n\nA SPECT scan of Bolzan's brain showed that he had no blood flow to his right temporal lobe—the part of the brain that stores long-term memory. Blood flow to the front of his brain on both sides is also dramatically reduced. He suffered brain atrophy, which killed brain cells and damaged connections between them. The loss of blood flow caused Bolzan to suffer an unusually severe case of retrograde amnesia. Dr. Teresa Lanier, Bolzan's primary physician, has said \"It would basically have to be a miracle for him to one day wake up and have complete and intact memory of everything he has lost. That's probably just never going to happen.\"\n\nBolzan's wife has tried to help him remember parts of his life since his fall, showing him photographs of key events in his life in hopes of jogging his memory. Along with memories of his personal life, he has lost memories of historical events and basic interpersonal relationship concepts. He did not understand birthdays or the relationship between a husband and wife. He had no reference points. He did, however, remember basic life tasks, like using eating utensils and how to drive a car.\n\nScott has appeared on talk shows such as Dr. Phil, The View, Fox and Friends, Good Morning America, The Huckabee Show, The Doctors, Nightline, guest appearance on Couples Therapy. Scott has also been a guest on numerous syndicated radio shows and local news stations.\n\nThe New York Post published an article on October 9, 2011 reporting that a doctor who examined Bolzan after his fall stated that Bolzan was possibly \"feigning his alleged memory deficits\", explaining that it is questionable that an injury to one part of the brain could affect all the different memories distributed among the organ, while not damaging his cognitive abilities or his ability to form new memories. The article also cited other neurologists who, while having not examined Bolzan, stated that his amnesia violates fundamental knowledge of neurobiology, in that old memories are more resistant to brain damage than recent ones, in contrast to Bolzan's case.\n\n"}
{"id": "1087159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087159", "title": "Situation analysis", "text": "Situation analysis\n\nSituation analysis refers to a collection of methods that managers use to analyze an organization's internal and external environment to understand the organization's capabilities, customers, and business environment. The situation analysis consists of several methods of analysis: The 5Cs Analysis, SWOT analysis and Porter five forces analysis. A Marketing Plan is created to guide businesses on how to communicate the benefits of their products to the needs of potential customer. The situation analysis is the second step in the marketing plan and is a critical step in establishing a long term relationship with customers.\n\nMarketing Plan\n\nThe situation analysis looks at both the macro-environmental factors that affect many firms within the environment and the micro-environmental factors that specifically affect the firm. The purpose of the situation analysis is to indicate to a company about the organizational and product position, as well as the overall survival of the business, within the environment. Companies must be able to summarize opportunities and problems within the environment so they can understand their capabilities within the market.\n\nWhile a situation analysis is often referred to as the \"3C analysis\", the extension to the 5c analysis has allowed businesses to gain more information on the internal, macro-environmental and micro-environmental factors within the environment. The 5C analysis is considered the most useful and common way to analyze the market environment, because of the extensive information it provides.\n\nThe company analysis involves evaluation of the company's objectives, strategy, and capabilities. These indicate to an organization the strength of the business model, whether there are areas for improvement, and how well an organization fits the external environment.\n\nThe competitor analysis takes into consideration the competitors position within the industry and the potential threat it may pose to other businesses. The main purpose of the competitor analysis is for businesses to analyze a competitor's current and potential nature and capabilities so they can prepare against competition. The competitor analysis looks at the following criteria: \n\nCustomer analysis can be vast and complicated. Some of the important areas that a company analyzes includes:\n\nCollaborators are useful for businesses as they allow for an increase in the creation of ideas, as well as an increase in the likelihood of gaining more business opportunities. The following type of collaborators are:\n\nBusinesses must be able to identify whether the collaborator has the capabilities needed to help run the business as well as an analysis on the level of commitment needed for a collaborator-business relationship.\n\nTo fully understand the business climate and environment, many factors that can affect the business must be researched and understood. An analysis on the climate is also known as the PEST analysis. The types of climate/environment firms have to analyse are:\n\nA SWOT Analysis is another method under the situation analysis that examines the \"Strengths\" and \"Weaknesses\" of a company (internal environment) as well as the \"Opportunities\" and \"Threats\" within the market (external environment). A SWOT analysis looks at both current and future situations, where they analyze their current strengths and weaknesses while looking for future opportunities and threats. The goal is to build on strengths as much as possible while reducing weaknesses. A future threat can be a potential weakness while a future opportunity can be a potential strength. This analysis helps a company come up with a plan that keeps it prepared for a number of potential scenarios.\n\nThe Porter models involves scanning the environment for threats from competitors and identifying problems early on to minimize threats imposed by competitors. This model can apply for any type of business, from small to larger sized businesses. It is important to take note that the Porter’s five forces model are not just for businesses, but can also be applied to a country to help gain insight into creating a competitive advantage in the global market. The ultimate purpose of the Porter's five forces model is to help businesses compare and analyze their profitability and position with the industry against indirect and direct competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "28381078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28381078", "title": "Sprouts of capitalism", "text": "Sprouts of capitalism\n\nThe sprouts of capitalism, seeds of capitalism or capitalist sprouts are features of the economy of the late Ming and early Qing dynasties (16th to 18th centuries) that mainland Chinese historians have seen as resembling developments in pre-industrial Europe, and as precursors of a hypothetical indigenous development of industrial capitalism. Korean nationalist historiography has also adopted the idea. In China the sprouts theory was denounced during the Cultural Revolution, but saw renewed interest after the economy began to grow rapidly in the 1980s.\n\nThe Chinese term was first used in the first chapter, \"Chinese Society\", of \"The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party\", edited by Mao Zedong in 1939:\n\nSimilar ideas had been explored by Chinese Marxists in the 1920s and 1930s, and provided a way of reconciling Chinese history with Joseph Stalin's five stages of modes of production: primitive, slavery, feudal, capitalist and socialist.\n\nShang Yue and other Chinese historians sought to justify Mao's hypothesis in the 1950s, producing a series of papers collected in two volumes entitled \"Essays on the debate on the sprouts of capitalism in China\" published in 1957 and 1960.\nThey identified a number of developments in the Chinese economy between the 16th and 18th centuries, including improved farming and handicraft technologies, improvement and expansion of markets, and changes in wage labor relationships.\nThese developments were compared to earlier changes in European economies, and held to constitute a new proto-capitalist phase of Chinese economic history.\nSome versions of the theory held that indigenous development of industrial capitalism was forestalled by the 17th-century Manchu invasion or 19th-century conflicts with European powers such as the Opium War,\nwhile others believed that the sprouts were always weak and had withered by the 19th century.\n\nThese ideas were also explored by Japanese historians of China in the 1950s, though they concluded that a decisive transformation was unlikely.\nIn 1980 the late-Ming historian Mori Masao said this work \"failed to produce satisfactory theoretical results, though it uncovered a wealth of historical facts which had hitherto been unknown\".\nWestern economic historians have tended to dismiss the suggestion that these developments presaged a capitalist transformation.\n\nIn China, Shang Yue and the \"sprouts\" theories were denounced in the Anti-rightist Movement and Cultural Revolution for their emphasis on capitalism, and for contradicting Mao's emphasis on Chinese reaction to Western imperialism in the 19th century.\nThe fall of the Gang of Four in 1976 and the resurgence of the Chinese economy in the 1980s led to renewed Chinese interest in these ideas.\nA notable contribution was the 3-volume \"A History of the Development of Capitalism in China\", by Wu Chengming and colleagues in 1985, with the second volume dealing with the sprouts of capitalism.\nMany Chinese historians now accept that the \"sprouts\" did not amount to a decisive new phase of economic development.\n\nEconomists such as Philip Huang and Li Bozhong have attacked \"sprouts\" research and other approaches measuring Chinese economic history against developments in Western Europe. They challenge the underlying assumption of a single path of development reflected by the European experience, and argue that focusing on similarities with Europe distorts the study of Chinese history.\n\nThe sprouts researchers tended to identify the expansion of markets with capitalism.\nIn an influential study in 1957, Fu Yiling placed the origin of the sprouts in a 16th-century \"commercial revolution\".\nChinese exports to the West generated an inflow of silver from the Americas which expanded the money supply, driving the monetization of markets and taxation.\nThe following centuries saw increased regional specialization and the\nintegration of rural markets.\n\nResearchers have pointed to the rise of wage labour in late Ming and early Qing workshops in textile, paper and other industries.\nHowever, they lacked the production accounting methods found in European factories, achieving large-scale production by using many small workshops, each with a small team of workers under a master craftsman.\n\nThe organization of silk weaving in 18th-century Chinese cities was compared with the putting-out system used in European textile industries between the 13th and 18th centuries.\nAs the interregional silk trade grew, merchant houses began to organize manufacture to guarantee their supplies, providing silk to households for weaving as piece work.\nIn contrast to Europe, where putting-out aimed to harness rural labour to bypass the urban guild system, the Chinese system was a mechanism of spreading risk.\nIn addition, although putting-out began much earlier in continental Europe, it was only in the English cotton industry that it led to industrialization.\n\nKorean nationalist historians advanced a \"sprouts\" theory as a counter to the claim that Korean industrialization was the \"offspring\" of Japanese industrialization.\nAccording to this theory, farmers responded to the 17th-century labour shortage caused by foreign invasions by adopting more efficient farming methods, leading to greater commercialization and proto-industrialization, which was curtailed by the Japanese interference from the late 19th century.\nIt became the orthodox theory in school textbooks in both North and South Korea.\nHowever, since the 1980s South Korean historians have largely discredited the theory.\n\n\n\nWorks cited\n"}
{"id": "54342072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54342072", "title": "Steve Harvey's Funderdome", "text": "Steve Harvey's Funderdome\n\nSteve Harvey's Funderdome is an American business reality competition show that premiered June 11, 2017 on ABC and produced by MGM Television. In a format similar to \"Shark Tank\", the show features two contestants who pitch products to a studio audience which votes on who will get seed funding for their project.\n\nEach show features three competitions between two inventors (or teams of inventors) competing for the same amount of seed funding—$10,000, $20,000, $50,000, or $100,000. One inventor gives a pitch, followed by a short question-and-answer period with Harvey; the process then repeats for the other inventor. After this, the audience votes on which product they would like to see funded.\n\nBefore the winner is revealed, both competitors are offered the opportunity to \"cash out.\" Both inventors (or one chosen member from a team) stand next to a button. A series of amounts—which may increase or decrease—are shown on a screen, along with a timer; to cash out at a particular value, a contestant must hit the button before the timer runs out. Most cash out offers are between 5 and 25 percent of the desired amount (e.g., $5,000–$25,000 for inventors seeking $100,000). In some cases, Harvey has revealed the percentages of the vote before giving the inventors the chance to cash out.\n\nThere are three possible outcomes for each competition:\n\nShortly before the show's debut, MGM Worldwide Television Distribution announced that TF1 acquired the rights to the French version of the show.\n\nOn June 5, 2017, a message from a believed to be cybercriminal stated that eight episodes of this series were already online. A similar group had earlier leaked episodes of \"Orange Is the New Black\". However, ABC had no public comment about the piracy of the show, which was not expected to affect the show's viewership because the target audience was considered unlikely to use piracy websites.\n\n"}
{"id": "55878448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55878448", "title": "Tebogo Mashego", "text": "Tebogo Mashego\n\nTebogo Anna Mashego, is a South African entrepreneur and industrialist, who is the co-founder and chief executive officer of \"Ditsogo Projects Proprietary Limited\", a metal fabrication enterprise that designs and manufactures aluminium window frames, steel gates, burglar proofing, steel bunk beds, aluminium patio doors, steel furniture and other related items.\n\nShe was born in South Africa in 1982. She attended \"Sekete IV High School\" in Rustenburg, North West Province, graduating in 1998. Over time, she became married and took up a job as a human resources officer at a municipality.\n\nIn 2004, Tebogo and her husband established \"Diep K Steel & Aluminum Proprietary Limited\". Tebogo managed the business part-time, while still working as a human resources officer for a local government entity. In 2008, she resigned from her job at the municipality and went to run her business full-time. The same year, her husband divested from the company.\n\nIn 2014, the company re-branded to Ditsogo Projects Proprietary Limited and relocated to the industrial area in the town of Rustenburg. It is wholly owned and managed by women. The business has hired new talent both in management and on the shop floor. By upgrading their business model, the business was able to reduce their operational costs by 20 per cent.\n\nTebogo Anna Mashego's work is inline with promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization, building resilient infrastructure and fostering innovation (United Nations Millennium Development Goal 9), with sustainable production and consumption patterns (Sustainable Development Goal 12).\n\nIn 2014, Tebogo Mashego was named among \"The 20 Youngest Power Women In Africa 2014\", by Forbes Magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "44522822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44522822", "title": "Tianshui Association", "text": "Tianshui Association\n\nTianshui Association (, pronounced in Japanese \"Tensui Kai\" and in Chinese \"Tianshui Hui\") is a mutual assistance association in Japan of the 300 Japanese railway engineers who worked under forced labor for the construction of the Tianshui-Lanzhou Railway, Gansu Province, China.\n\nChina Railway Corporation in 1950 restarted the construction of the Tianshui-Lanzhou Railway (354 km), now part of Longhai Railway between Lianyungang and Lanzhou, and gathered 300 Japanese former South Manchuria Railway engineers and others with their families in Tianshui, Gansu Province, to work under forced labor for this project. The railway was completed in 1952 and those Japanese workers, who were repatriated to Japan in 1953, formed Tianshui Association, a mutual assistance association.\n\n"}
{"id": "20612744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20612744", "title": "Trade in Morocco", "text": "Trade in Morocco\n\nMoroccan trade is still dominated by its main import and export partner France, although France's share in Moroccan trade is declining, in favour of the US, the Persian Gulf region and China. If seen as a single entity, the EU is by far Morocco's largest trading partner.\n\nIn recent years, Morocco has reduced its dependence on phosphate exports, emerging as an exporter of manufactured and agricultural products, and as a growing tourism destination. However, its competitiveness in basic manufactured goods, such as textiles, is hampered by low labour productivity and high wages. Morocco is dependent on imported fuel and its food import requirement can rise substantially in drought years, as in 2007. Although Morocco runs a structural trade deficit, this is typically offset by substantial services earnings from tourism and large remittance inflows from the diaspora, and the country normally runs a small current-account surplus. \n\nMorocco signed in 1996 an agreement of association with the European Union which came into effect in 2000. This agreement, which lies within the scope of the Barcelona Process (Euro-Mediterranean partnership) started in 1995 and envisages the progressive implementation of a free trade area planned for 2012.\n\nMorocco's FTA with the EU, which was signed in 1996, entered into force in 2000 and is being incrementally implemented with the aim of creating an EU-Morocco free trade zone by 2012, noting that the abolition of tariffs on industrial goods has been a boom for Moroccan manufacturers as some 75% of Morocco's exports go to Europe. France is Morocco's largest trading partner, followed by Spain.\n\nFrance is Morocco’s largest trading partner for both imports and exports, controlling more than 60% of foreign direct investment in Morocco. Morocco has emerged as a major cheap-labour platform for European manufacturers, as well as a commercial trans-shipment point for goods from all around the world passing through the Straits of Gibraltar. Moroccans’ knowledge of French has also led French banking and call-centre firms to set up service operations in Morocco. \n\nIn October 2007, French President Nicolas Sarkozy travelled to Morocco on an official state visit to King Mohammed VI. Accompanied by 70 top French business executives, Sarkozy confirmed several billion dollars' worth of contracts for French firms in Morocco.\n\nMoroccan-US trade has risen to $2.3 billion in 2007 from the $1.4 billion since the enforcement of the free trade agreement signed between the 2 countries in 2006, former Moroccan Minister of Trade and Economy Salaheddine Mezouar said in 2007. Mezouar pointed out that Moroccan clothing exports to the USA had increased by 122% in 2006 while perfume sales had grown by 41%, also noting that US investment in Morocco exceeded $1.5 billion, mainly in tourism and clothing. In 2006, Moroccan-US trade was up 44% over 2005. Moroccan exports to the US netted $521.2 million while American exports to Morocco reached $875.5 million, up 67% from 2005. According to the FTA agreement, Morocco can export to the US a duty-free quota of 15 million square meters of finished goods and 500 tonnes of thread and materials made from fibres and cotton from less developed Sub-Saharan African countries. Morocco is looking to expand its textile markets outside the EU due to strong competition after the EU abolished quotas for Asian textiles in January 2005. Moroccan exports to the US rose by 25% in 2007, and noted that trade has been facilitated and promoted by the FTA between the 2 countries. The establishment of a direct merchant maritime line between Tangier and ports on the US East coast would be an essential step to taking trade to the next level.\n\nMorocco was the 2nd African country to establish diplomatic ties with China since the founding of the People's Republic in 1949. \"Sino-Moroccan relations have all along developed soundly and stably with friendly cooperation deepening continuously in all fields, thanks to the joint efforts by the leaders and peoples of the 2 countries, no matter how international situation changes,\"Wu Bangguo, chairman of the Standing Committee of the Chinese National People's Congress, said during his meeting with Abdeloughed Radi, president of Morocco's Chamber of Representatives, in 2005.\n\nIn trade and economic cooperation, the volume of bilateral trade has increased incessantly, reaching $1.16 billion US dollars in 2004,\"Wu said. Nothing marked results in bilateral cooperation such as in traditional fields like fisheries, agriculture, health and engineering projects. \n\nThe heads of the parliaments of China and Morocco vowed in Rabat in 2005 to work for the further development of bilateral ties in all fields, including trade.\n\nAs part of its economic liberalization policy, Morocco has concluded free trade agreements with GCC countries, thereby lining Morocco with 1 of the largest free trade networks in the world and giving it duty-free access to a huge market.\n\nMorocco's trade with the African countries has jumped from $533 million in 1998 to around $3 billion in 2008, up 460%.\nThis was facilitated thanks to opening by Morocco's carrier, Royal Air Maroc, of 27 links serving the continent's major cities as well as the existence in Africa of a number of Moroccan operators, especially Royal Air Maroc, mobile operator Maroc Telecom and Attijariwafa Bank.\n\nMorocco's trade imbalance rose from $86 billion to $118 billion dirhams between 2006 and 2007 – a 26.6% increase bringing the total amount to 17% of GDP. The Caisse de dépôt et de gestion forecasts that if imports continue to rise faster than exports, the disparity could reach 21% of GDP. \nForeign Trade Minister Abdellatif Maâzouz said earlier in September that members of the government have agreed to a plan focused on four major areas: a concerted export development strategy, the regulation of imports, market and economic monitoring, and the adaptation of regulations and working practices. \nThe plan, Maâzouz said, \"will enable us to redress the external trade situation and to reduce Morocco’s trade deficit.\" The minister added that he expects to see a reversal of the imbalance by 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "3036874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3036874", "title": "Tsunao Okumura", "text": "Tsunao Okumura\n\nTsunao Okumura (奥村 綱雄 \"Okumura Tsunao\"; 5 March 1903 - 7 November 1972) was the president of Nomura Securities between 1948 - 1959. He was seen as the king of Japanese stockbroking in the 1950s.\n\nAs the son of a wealthy confectioner, Okumura showed little ambition from a young age. At nineteen, he entered Kyoto University where he enjoyed the softer pleasures offered to a well-to-do college student. His father gave him 100 yen a month spending money, at a time when twenty yen was enough to enjoy a very comfortable life-style. Taking his classes lightly, he spent much time in Kyoto's dance halls along with other rich young men. Okumura left university without impressive grades and was rejected by the Mitsubishi, Mitsui and Yamaguchi banks. He succeeded in entering Nomura's research department by a personal introduction.\n\nHis colleagues observed that Okumura was pleasant and self-assured but lacked the hunger that characterised other Nomura executives. He often came to work late, was despondent and left early. Shortly after joining Nomura, his parents arranged for him to marry the eldest daughter of a wealthy Osaka landowner. His marriage into wealth further discouraged his ambition.\n\nIn 1935, Okumura made a serious error which nearly cost him his career. As a research analyst in marketing, Okumura published a secret book for investors espousing the merits of purchasing overseas bonds. At the time, the Bank of Japan prohibited the purchase of overseas bonds by the Japanese. Japan needed all the money it could get to expand its military. Bank of Japan officials found out about the brochure and consequently reprimanded the then-president of Nomura securities, Otogo Kataoka. Kataoka furiously ordered Okumura's resignation but was persuaded by other senior colleagues to simply demote Okumura instead. Disgraced, Okumura was transferred to the registration section. The registration section, where only women worked, involved hand numbering every security as it was bought and sold. The only compensation for Okumura there was that the women spoiled him shamelessly.\n\nLater on, Okumura's book on purchasing overseas bonds put him back in favor with Nomura's senior management, sending his career on an upward path.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42655837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42655837", "title": "Umestan", "text": "Umestan\n\nUmestan is a business park in Umeå, Sweden.\n\nThe business park took over these facilities in 1998, when Västerbottens regementes' military operations were shut down. Umeå Municipality bought the entire area in order to create a business-and knowledge center. The buildings were renovated to meet the needs of modern business regarding comfort, environment and IT capabilities. The business park contains about 40 buildings, which have about 120 different tenants. Around 3 000 people visit the area every day.\nIn 2012 Umeå Municipality sold the park to Lersten for about 470 million kronor.\n\n"}
{"id": "46739096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46739096", "title": "Unstoppable (book)", "text": "Unstoppable (book)\n\nUnstoppable: Finding Hidden Assets to Renew the Core and Fuel Profitable Growth is a non-fiction book on business strategy by American business consultant Chris Zook. This is the third book in his \"Profit from the Core\" trilogy, preceded by \"Profit from the Core\" released in 2001 and \"Beyond the Core\" in 2004.\n\nIn previous books in the trilogy, Zook explaines how to expand, exploit, and support the current core of a company's business model. Firms usually go through a common growth cycle. Initially, they focus their resources on establishing their core businesses and using them against competition. Then, companies should leverage their strengths and move into closely related areas of business. Finally, companies exhaust these opportunities and have to redefine their cores, making hard decisions and launching a necessary transformation. When a company tries to redefine its core, often managers follow one of three paths—they commit ever more deeply to what they currently do, they move into segments where they have no experience, or they merge with some other group to create a new megacompany.\n\nZook argues that each of those moves has a very small chance of success over the long term. The chances are much better when companies examine what they already have, and then map out how to leverage those hidden assets. Zook divides these assets in three categories: undervalued business platforms, unexploited customer assets, and underutilized capabilities. If the company moves in these areas where it already has experience, it may successfully redefine itself to meet the next growth period.\n\n—Review by First Friday Book Synopsis\n\n\n"}
{"id": "76656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76656", "title": "Workflow", "text": "Workflow\n\nA workflow consists of an orchestrated and repeatable pattern of business activity enabled by the systematic organization of resources into processes that transform materials, provide services, or process information. It can be depicted as a sequence of operations, the work of a person or group, the work of an organization of staff, or one or more simple or complex mechanisms.\n\nFrom a more abstract or higher-level perspective, workflow may be considered a view or representation of real work. The flow being described may refer to a document, service, or product that is being transferred from one step to another.\n\nWorkflows may be viewed as one fundamental building block to be combined with other parts of an organization's structure such as information technology, teams, projects and hierarchies.\n\nThe development of the concept of workflow occurred above a series of loosely defined, overlapping eras.\n\nThe modern history of workflows can be traced to Frederick Taylor and Henry Gantt, although the term \"workflow\" was not in usage as such during their lifetimes. One of the earliest usages of the term \"work flow\" was in a railway engineering journal from 1921.\n\nTaylor and Gantt launched the study of the deliberate, rational organization of work, primarily in the context of manufacturing. This gave rise to time and motion studies. Related concepts include job shops and queuing systems (Markov chains).\n\nThe 1948 book \"Cheaper by the Dozen\" introduced the emerging concepts to the context of family life.\n\nThe invention of the typewriter and the copier helped spread the study of the rational organization of labor from the manufacturing shop floor to the office. Filing systems and other sophisticated systems for managing physical information flows evolved. Several events likely contributed to the development of formalized information workflows. First, the field of optimization theory matured and developed mathematical optimization techniques. For example, Soviet mathematician and economist Leonid Kantorovich developed the seeds of linear programming in 1939 through efforts to solve a plywood manufacturer's production optimization issues. Second, World War II and the Apollo program drove process improvement forward with their demands for the rational organization of work.\n\nIn the post-war era, the work of W. Edwards Deming and Joseph M. Juran led to a focus on quality, initially in Japanese companies, and from the 1980s on a more global level, giving rise to a variety of movements ranging from total quality management to Six Sigma, then to more qualitative notions of business process re-engineering. Under the influence of the quality movement, workflows, in knowledge economy sectors as well as in manufacturing, became the subject of further scrutiny and optimization efforts. Acknowledgement of the dynamic and changing nature of the demands on workflows came in the form of recognition of the phenomena associated with critical paths and moving bottlenecks.\n\nA workflow management system (WfMS) is a software system for setting up, performing, and monitoring of a defined sequence of processes and tasks, with the broad goals of increasing productivity, reducing costs, becoming more agile, and improving information exchange within an organization. These systems may be process-centric or data-centric, and they may represent the workflow as graphical maps. The workflow management system may also include an extensible interface so that external software applications can be integrated and provide support for wide area workflows that provide faster response times and improved productivity.\n\nThe concept of workflow is closely related to several fields in operations research and other areas that study the nature of work, either quantitatively or qualitatively, such as artificial intelligence (in particular, the sub-discipline of AI planning) and ethnography. The term \"workflow\" is more commonly used in particular industries, such as in printing or professional domains such as clinical laboratories, where it may have particular specialized meanings.\n\n\nThe following examples illustrate the variety of workflows seen in various contexts:\n\n\n\nSeveral workflow improvement theories have been proposed and implemented in the modern workplace. These include:\n\n\nEvaluation of resources, both physical and human, is essential to evaluate hand-off points and potential to create smoother transitions between tasks.\n\nA workflow can usually be described using formal or informal flow diagramming techniques, showing directed flows between processing steps. Single processing steps or components of a workflow can basically be defined by three parameters:\n\nComponents can only be plugged together if the output of one previous (set of) component(s) is equal to the mandatory input requirements of the following component(s). Thus, the essential description of a component actually comprises only input and output that are described fully in terms of data types and their meaning (semantics). The algorithms' or rules' descriptions need only be included when there are several alternative ways to transform one type of input into one type of output – possibly with different accuracy, speed, etc.\n\nWhen the components are non-local services that are invoked remotely via a computer network, such as Web services, additional descriptors (such as QoS and availability) also must be considered.\n\nMany software systems exist to support workflows in particular domains. Such systems manage tasks such as automatic routing, partially automated processing, and integration between different functional software applications and hardware systems that contribute to the value-addition process underlying the workflow. There are also software suppliers using the technology process driven messaging service based upon three elements:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12179301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12179301", "title": "Yekaterinburg-City", "text": "Yekaterinburg-City\n\nYekaterinburg-City (, \"Yekaterinburg-Siti\") is a commercial district in central Yekaterinburg, Russia. It is located on Boris Yeltsin Street on the embankment of the Iset River and is currently under development. The area occupies five hectares.\n\nThe project's architectural planning and design belonged to French architectural bureau ValoDia and Pistre. The project's primary investor is UMMK-Holding. Construction would be responsible to Deputy Mayor for Construction and Architecture, Vladimir Kritskii. The project combines about 450,000 square meters of commercial space, offices, hotels, entertainment centers, cafes, and restaurants. The plans include 12 buildings: four office towers, a commercial area to accommodate typical small and average-sized businesses, a so-called trading gallery and two hotels.\n\nConstruction of Yekaterinburg-City started in 2007 and is scheduled to complete in 2014. Progress had a setback in 2014 due to the Russian financial crisis but government officials stated that it would still be finished by 2014. However, two skyscrapers of Yekaterinburg-City were finished over the expected completion date of 2014 in 2015.\n\nYekaterinburg-City currently has three skyscrapers, one hotel, and two high-rises.\n\n\"Main Article: Iset\"\n\nIset is a 52-story residential skyscraper in Yekaterinburg-City. The skyscraper's height is 209 meters, and its total floor area is 80,983 square feet. Construction of the skyscraper began in 2010 and completed in 2015. Named after the Iset River which goes through central Yekaterinburg.\n\nIset is currently the tallest building of Yekaterinburg, the second tallest building in Russia outside of the capital city of Moscow, and the 16th tallest building in Russia.\n\nDe Luxe is a 43-story residential skyscraper in Yekaterinburg-City. The skyscraper's height is 138.79 meters. Construction of the skyscraper began in 2006 and completed in 2010. \n\nDemidov Plaza is a 35-story office skyscraper in Yekaterinburg-City. The skyscraper's height is 130.15 meters. Construction of the skyscraper began in 2007 and completed in 2015.\n\nThe Sverdlovsk Oblast Government Building is a 22-story office high-rise used by the federal state of Sverdlovsk Oblast in Yekaterinburg-City. The skyscraper's height is 91.44 meters. Construction of the high-rise was completed in 1982.\nThe Baron de Gennin Hyatt Regency Ekaterinburg is a 21-story 5 star hotel owned by Hyatt Regency, a brand of Hyatt, in Yekaterinburg-City. The high-rise's height is 83 meters. Construction of the high-rise began in 2005 and completed in 2009.\n\nPresident is a 20-story office high-rise in Yekaterinburg-City. The high-rise's height s 82 meters. Construction of the high-rise was completed in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43461144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43461144", "title": "Yi Xiqun", "text": "Yi Xiqun\n\nYi Xiqun (Simplified Chinese: 衣锡群) (born 1947) is a Chinese entrepreneur.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1987, Mr. Yi was in charge of the Beijing Municipal Government Economic Structure Reform Committee, and from 1987 to 1991, he was Head of the Xicheng District in Beijing.\nHe has served as the Chairman of Beijing Enterprises Holdings, Assistant to the Mayor of Beijing and Director of the Economic and Foreign Trade Commission of Beijing Municipality and the Management Committee of the Beijing Economic and Technology Development Area. He joined the Beijing Enterprises Holdings in 1999. He was eventually appointed as Chairman of Beijing Enterprises Holdings in 2003. Under his leadership as Chairman, Beijing Enterprises Holdings underwent a large-scale restructuring and successful turnaround from 2003-2009. During those years, the stock returned 32.3% per annum (33.7% including dividends), driven by operational improvements, bolt-on acquisitions and sale of non-core assets. \nHe has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of SOHO China, since 2007, an Independent Non-Executive Director at Asian Capital Holdings since 2010, and Independent Non-Executive Director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China since 2013 and has previously served as an Independent Director of China Merchants Bank.\nHe serves as Executive Vice-Chairman of China Association of Private Equity, 1st Interim Chairman and Vice President of Beijing Private Equity Association, Vice President of China Association for the Promotion of Industrial Development, and President of Capital Enterprises Association.\nHe is a graduate of Tsinghua University.\n"}
