{"id": "42617062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42617062", "title": "3DFLOW", "text": "3DFLOW\n\n3DFlow, srl is an Italian software house operating in the field of Computer Vision and Image Processing. It was established in 2011 as a spin-off of the University of Verona and in 2012 it became a spin-off of the University of Udine.\n\nMost known for its photogrammetry software 3DF Zephyr that allows the user to automatically create 3D models starting with a random set of pictures, 3DFlow is also involved as a consulting company with other well known software house such as Activision and Quantel. Part of its technology has been made available for free such as 3DF Samantha and JLinkage which overall have been cited on more than 50 papers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30586232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30586232", "title": "Achaemenid architecture", "text": "Achaemenid architecture\n\nAchaemenid architecture (Persian: معماری هخامنشیان) includes all architectural achievements of the Achaemenid Persians manifesting in construction of spectacular cities used for governance and inhabitation (Persepolis, Susa, Ecbatana), temples made for worship and social gatherings (such as Zoroastrian temples), and mausoleums erected in honor of fallen kings (such as the burial tomb of Cyrus the Great). The quintessential feature of Persian architecture was its eclectic nature with elements of Assyrian, Egyptian, Median and Asiatic Greek all incorporated, yet producing a unique Persian identity seen in the finished product. Achaemenid architecture is academically classified under Persian architecture in terms of its style and design.\n\nAchaemenid architectural heritage, beginning with the expansion of the empire around 550 B.C.E., was a period of artistic growth that left an extraordinary architectural legacy ranging from Cyrus the Great's solemn tomb in Pasargadae to the splendid structures of the opulent city of Persepolis. With the advent of the second Persian Empire, the Sassanid dynasty (224–624 C.E.), revived Achaemenid tradition by construction of temples dedicated to fire, and monumental palaces.\n\nPerhaps the most striking extant structures to date are the ruins of Persepolis, a once opulent city established by the Achaemenid king, Darius the Great for governmental and ceremonial functions, and also acting as one of the empire's four capitals. Persepolis, would take 100 years to complete and would finally be ransacked and burnt by the troops of Alexander the Great in 330 B.C.E. Similar architectural infrastructures were also erected at Susa and Ecbatana by Darius the Great, serving similar functions as Persepolis, such as reception of foreign dignitaries and delegates, performance of imperial ceremonies and duties, and also housing the kings.\n\nDespite having ruled over much of the ancient world, Cyrus the Great would design a tomb that depicts extreme simplicity and modesty when compared to those of other ancient kings and rulers. The simplicity of the structure has a powerful effect on the viewer, since aside from a few cyma moldings below the roof and a small rosette above its small entrance, there are no other stylistic distractions.\n\nAfter his death, Cyrus the Great's remains were interred in his capital city of Pasargadae, where today his limestone tomb (built around 540–530 B.C.E.) still exists. The translated ancient accounts give a vivid description of the tomb both geometrically and aesthetically; The tomb's geometric shape has changed little over the years, still maintaining a large stone of quadrangular form at the base (forty five feet by forty two feet), followed by a pyramidal succession of seven, irregular smaller rectangular stones (possibly as a reference to the seven planets of the solar system) reaching a height of eighteen feet, until the structure is curtailed by a rectangularly formed cubical edifice with a small opening or window on the side, where the slenderest man can barely squeeze through. The roof of the edifice and indeed the structure, is an elongated limestone pediment.\n\nThe edifice, or the \"small house\" is a rectangular, elongated cube that lies directly on top of the pyramidal stone steps, and is in width, in height, and in length. The inside of the edifice is occupied by a small chamber a few feet in width and height, and around ten feet deep. It was inside this chamber where the bed and coffin of Cyrus the Great would have been situated. The edifice has a pediment roof possessing the same length and width dimensions as the edifice itself. Around the tomb were a series of columns, the original structure which they supported is no longer present. Arrian's direct testimony indicates that Cyrus the Great was indeed buried in the chamber inside the edifice, as he describes Alexander seeing it during his visit to Pasargadae, but it is also a possibility that the body of Cyrus the Great had been interred below the structure, and that the tomb seen on the top is in fact a cenotaph or a false tomb.\n\nThere was originally a golden coffin inside the mausoleum, resting on a table with golden supports, inside of which the body of Cyrus the Great was interred. Upon his resting place, was a covering of tapestry and drapes made from the best available Babylonian materials, using fine Median workmanship; below his bed was a fine red carpet, covering the narrow rectangular base of his tomb.\n\nTranslated Greek accounts describe the tomb as having been placed in the fertile Pasargadae gardens, surrounded by trees and ornamental shrubs, with a group of Achaemenian protectors (the \"Magi\"), stationed nearby to protect the edifice from theft or damage.\n\nThe magi were a group of on-site Zoroastrian observers, located in their separate but attached structure possibly a caravanserai, paid and cared for by the Achaemenid state (by some accounts they received a salary of daily bread and flour, and one sheep payment a day). The magi were placed in charge of maintenance and also prevention of theft. Years later, in the ensuing chaos created by Alexander the Great's invasion of Persia and loss of a centralized authority directing and caring for the Magi, Cyrus the Great's tomb was broken into and most of its luxuries were looted. When Alexander reached the tomb, he was horrified by the manner in which the tomb was treated, and questioned the Magi and put them to court. On some accounts, Alexander's decision to put the Magi on trial was more about his attempt to undermine their influence and his show of power in his newly conquered empire, than a concern for Cyrus's tomb. Regardless, Alexander the Great ordered Aristobulus of Cassandreia to improve the tomb's condition and restore its interior.\n\nThe tomb was originally ornamented with an inscription that, according to Strabo (and other ancient sources), stated:\n\nThe edifice has survived the test of time for some 2,500 years. After the Arab invasion into Persia and collapse of the Sassanid Empire, Arab armies wanted to destroy this historical artifact, on the basis that it was not in congruence to their Islamic tenets, but quick thinking on the part of the local Persians prevented this disaster. The Persians renamed the tomb, and presented it to the invading army as the tomb of King Solomon's mother. It is likely that the inscription was lost at this time.\n\nMohammad Reza Pahlavi (Shah of Iran), the last official monarch of Persia, during his 2,500 year celebration of the Persian Empire paid significant homage to the Achaemenid kings and specially Cyrus the Great. Just as Alexander the Great before him, the Shah of Iran wanted to appeal to Cyrus's legacy to legitimize his own rule by extension. Shah of Iran however was generally interested in protection of imperial historical artifacts.\n\nAfter the Iranian revolution, the tomb of Cyrus the Great survived the initial chaos and vandalism propagated by the Islamic revolutionary hardliners who equated Persian imperial historical artifacts with the late Shah of Iran. There are allegations of the tomb being in danger of damage from the construction of the Sivand Dam on river Polvar (located in the province of Pars) and water related damage, but there is no official acknowledgement of this claim. United Nations recognizes the tomb of Cyrus the Great and Pasargadae as a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nScholars agree that it was Darius the Great who initiated the construction and expansion of the Persepolis project, however German archaeologist Ernst E. Herzfeld, believed that it was Cyrus the Great who chose the site for the construction, although it ultimately came down to Darius the Great to finish the construction and create its impressive buildings. Excavations on behalf of the Oriental Institute of Chicago University, headed by Herzfeld in 1931 and later cooperation by Eric F. Schmidt in 1933 led to some of the most impressive uncovering of Achaemenid artifacts, palaces, and structures. Herzfeld felt that the site of Persepolis was made for special ceremonies and was meant to convey the power of the Achaemenid empire to its subject nations.\n\nOn some accounts, Persepolis was never officially finished as its existence was cut short by Alexander the Great, who in a fit of anger, ordered the burning of the city in 330 B.C.E. Started originally by Darius the Great a century earlier, the structure was constantly changing, receiving upgrades from subsequent Persian monarchs, and undergoing renovation to maintain its impressive façade. After the burning of the city, Persepolis was deserted and it was relatively lost to history until the excavations of Herzfeld, Schmidt, and the Chicago team uncovered it in the 1930s. This great historical artifact is unfortunately at serious risk of \"irreparable damage\" from neglect, the elements, and vandalism.\n\nPersepolis was by no means the only large scale Achaemenid project, as Susa also hosted a similar structure initiated by Darius for similar ceremonial purposes. However, that history is able to enjoy the remains of Persepolis as opposed to meager remnants of Susa, owes partly to selection of stone in construction of Persepolis over mud-brick in Susa, and the fact that it had been relatively uninhabited, protecting it from wear and tear of inhabitants. Politically, Persepolis also was a significant find because nearby discovery of Naqsh-e Rustam, the Persian necropolis home to Darius the Great shed light on the significance it has had as one of the major capitals of the empire. Naqsh-e Rustam would not only house Darius the Great, but also his son Xerxes the Great, Artaxerxes I, and Darius II as well. The necropolis complex was looted following invasion of Alexander, and possibly in the Sassanid period and during the Arab invasion.\n\nDuring the time of Shah of Iran, the structure enjoyed protection and coverage as Mohammad Reza Shah appeased to its royal and national symbolism. During this time period many western politicians, poets, artists, and writers were gravitated to Iran, and Persepolis, either as a function of the political relations with the Iranian monarchy or to report on, or visit the ruins. Such figures include the procession of international dignitaries attending the 2,500 year celebration of the Persian Empire held by Shah, as well as individual visits by such figures as Heinrich Lübke of Germany, and Ralph Graves of \"Life\" magazine. In an article in ``Life`` in 1971, Graves describes his experience at Persepolis in the following way:\n\nPerhaps one of the most memorable remaining architectural and artistic works is the bas-relief of Cyrus the Great in Pasargadae. This is a bas-relief cut upon a stone slab depicting a figure or a guardian man, most likely a resemblance of Cyrus himself, possessing four wings shown in an Assyrian style, dressed in Elamite traditional clothing, assuming a pose and figure of an Egyptian god, and wearing a crown that has two horns, in what resembles an \"Ovis longipes palaeoaegyptiacus.\" The structure originally had an upper stone slab that in three different languages, (Old Persian, Elamite, Babylonian) declared, \"I, (am) Cyrus the king, an Achaemenid.\" This carved in limestone writing was in place when Sir Robert Ker Poter described the piece in 1818 but, at some point has been lost.\n\nDavid Stronach has suggested that there were originally four such figures, set against doorways to the Palace of Cyrus in Pasargadae. That this bas-relief has such an eclectic styling with elements of Egyptian, Elamite, and Assyrian, reflects \"..'the oecumenical attitude of the Achaemenian kings, who from the time of Cyrus, onward adopted a liberal policy of tolerance and conciliation toward the various religions embraced within their empire'...\" It would therefore depict the eclectic nature of Achaemenid life from policies of the kings to their choice of architecture.\n\nHerodotus, recounts that Cyrus saw in his sleep the oldest son of Hystaspes, [Darius the Great] with wings upon his shoulders, shadowing with the one wing Asia, and with the other wing Europe. Noted Iranologist, Ilya Gershevitch explains this statement by Herodotus and its connection with the four winged figure in the following way:\n\nThis relief sculpture, in a sense depicts the eclectic inclusion of various art forms by the Achaemenids, yet their ability to create a new synthetic form that is uniquely Persian in style, and heavily dependent on the contributions of their subject states. After all, that is what distinguishes Achaemenid architecture from those of other kingdoms. It is its originality in context of fusion and inclusion of existing styles, in such a way as to create awe-inspiring structures.\n\nPersepolis is the Latinized version of the Old Persian name, \"Parsa\" literally meaning the \"city of Persians.\" Another spectacular achievement of the Achaemenids, Persepolis became one of the four capitals of the empire. Initiated by Darius the Great around 518 B.C.E., it would grow to become a center for ceremonial and cultural festivities, a center for dignitaries and visitors to pay homage to the king, a private residence for the Persian kings, a place for satraps to bring gifts for the king in the Spring during the festival of Nowruz, as well as a place of governance and ordinance. Persepolis's prestige and grand riches were well known in the ancient world, and it was best described by the Greek historian Diodorus Siculus as \"the richest city under the sun\".\n\nToday the archaeological remnants of this once opulent city are about 70 kilometers northeast of the modern Iranian city of Shiraz, in the Pars province, in southwestern Iran. Persepolis is a wide, elevated complex 40 feet high, 100 feet wide, and a third of a mile long, composed of multiple halls, corridors, a wide terrace, and a special, double, symmetrical stairway that would provide access to the top of the terrace. The stairway would delineate relief scenes of various motifs of daily life or nature, including some that were literal as well as metaphorical; Some scenes would show natural acts such as a lion attacking its prey but bear symbolism of spring and the Nowruz festival. Other scenes would depict, subjects from all states of the empire presenting gifts to the king, as well as scenes depicting royal guards, or scenes of social interactions between the guards or the dignitaries. This stairway is sometimes referred to as \"All countries.\"\n\nThe structure was constructed from various halls and complexes that included, hall of Apadana (the largest hall with 36 columns), \"Tachar\" (the private chamber of Darius the Great), \"Hadish\" (added later on as a private chamber for king Xerxes the Great), the \"Talar-i-Takht\" also known as the 100-columned hall serving as the throne hall for general meeting with the king, \"Darvazeh-i-Mellal\" (the gate of all nations), the \"khazaneh\" (the royal treasury), a hall/palace complex later on developed by Artaxerxes III, Tripylon (council hall), and the \"rock cut tombs of the kings\" or Naqsh-e Rustam.\n\nThe most impressive hall in the complex is the Apadana hall, occupying an area of about 109 square meters with 36 Persian columns, each more than 19 m tall. Each column is fluted, with a square base (except a few in the porticos), and an elaborate capital with two animals supporting the roof. The structure was originally closed off from the elements by mud-brick walls over 5 meters thick and over 20 meters. The columns have a composite capital depicting addorsed bulls or creatures. Those columns in the porticoes not only would possess a circular base, but would also have an ornate capital after the end of the fluting, only to be curtailed by detailed addorsed bulls, supporting the roof.\n\nApadana's relief is also unique in that it delineates the presence and power of the king. Known as \"Treasure reliefs\" the depicted scenes on Apadana stress the continuity of the kingdom through Darius the Great, and stress his presence throughout the empire, as well as depict his army of Persian immortals. Perhaps this was Darius's attempt to create a symbol of the assured continuity of his line. Apadana hall and the adjacent structures in the complex are believed to have been designed to host large number of people. In fact, halls of Persepolis could at any one time host some ten thousand visitors easily with the king and the royal staff seated appropriately.\n\nThe grandeur of Persepolis is in its architectural details, its impressive, tall, and upright columns, in its skilfully crafted reliefs depicting people from all walks of life, and from all corners of the empire, and most importantly in its historical importance as both a political and a social center of Achaemenid royal life.\n\nPersepolis Fortifications (PF) Tablets, dating to between 509 and 494 B.C.E. are ancient Persian documents that describe many aspects of construction and maintenance of the Persepolis. The tablets are important because they highlight two important aspects of the Achaemenid life and the construction of Persepolis: Firstly, that the structure was created by workers, who were paid rations or wages, and secondly the structure had an intricate system of engineering involving weight bearing and architectural elements, and most notably an irrigation system composed of a system of closed pipes and open aqueducts. The following text from \"PF 1224\", delineates both points:\n\nThe runoff and sewer network of Persepolis are among the most complex in the ancient world. Persepolis is constructed on the foot of a mountain (Rahmat Mountain), with an elevated terrace that is partially man made and partially part of the mountain complex. As Persepolis was in essence an important cultural center often used by the beginning of the spring during the festival of Nowruz it enjoyed great precipitation and water runoffs from the molten ice and snow. The sewer network assumed great importance at this critical time as it was meant to both handle the water flow downward from higher areas as well as manage the inhabitant’s sewage runoffs, and their water needs.\n\nIn order to prevent flooding, the Achaemenids used two engineering techniques to divert molten snow and mountain runoff: The first strategy was to collect the runoff in a reservoir that was a well with a square opening with dimensions of 4.2 m for the square opening, and a depth of 60 m, allowing a volume of 554 cubic meters, or 554,000 liters, (60 x 4.2 x 4.2) of runoff to be collected. The water would be diverted toward the reservoir via multiple masonry gutters strategically located around the structure. The second strategy was to divert water away from the structure, should the reservoirs be filled to capacity; this system used a 180 m long conduit, with 7 m width, and 2.6 m depth located just west of the site.\n\nThe water system however was far more complex than just the reservoirs and the water conduits and involved a very sophisticated ancient system of closed pipes and irrigation. The irrigation was divided into five zones, two serving north part of the structure and three the southern part. Amazingly the irrigation system was designed to be harmonious with the structure so that at places there were central drainage canals in the center of the columns and small draining holes and conduits on each floor that would take the water out of roof, each floor, and the sewage portals into an underground sewage network and away from the structure.\n\nThe five zones (I–V) all possessed a runoff capacity of 260 L/s (liter/second) which is certainly more than the amount needed for handling mountain runoff indicating that the system was also used for water supply to the inhabitants, sewage management, and even irrigation of the gardens around the structure.\n\nIn order for such a massive structure to have functioned properly it meant that the weight of the roof, columns and indeed the terrace had to be distributed evenly. Construction at the base of the mountain offered some structural support. The ceiling material was a composite application of wood and stone decreasing its overall weight. Extensive use of stone in Persepolis, not only guaranteed its structural integrity for the duration of its use but also meant that its remains lasted longer than the mud-bricks of Susa palaces.\nScholars agree that it was Darius the Great who initiated the construction and expansion of the Persepolis project, however German archaeologist Ernst E. Herzfeld, believed that it was Cyrus the Great who chose the site for the construction, although it ultimately came down to Darius the Great to finish the construction and create its impressive buildings. Excavations on behalf of the Oriental Institute of Chicago University, headed by Herzfeld in 1931 and later cooperation by Eric F. Schmidt in 1933 led to some of the most impressive uncovering of Achaemenid artifacts, palaces, and structures. Herzfeld felt that the site of Persepolis was made for special ceremonies and was meant to convey the power of the Achaemenid empire to its subject nations.\n\nOn some accounts, Persepolis was never officially finished as its existence was cut short by Alexander the Great, who in a fit of anger, ordered the burning of the city in 330 B.C.E. Started originally by Darius the Great a century earlier, the structure was constantly changing, receiving upgrades from subsequent Persian monarchs, and undergoing renovation to maintain its impressive façade. After the burning of the city, Persepolis was deserted and it was relatively lost to history until the excavations of Herzfeld, Schmidt, and the Chicago team uncovered it in the 1930s. This great historical artifact is unfortunately at serious risk of \"irreparable damage\" from neglect, the elements, and vandalism.\n\nPersepolis was by no means the only large scale Achaemenid project, as Susa also hosted a similar structure initiated by Darius for similar ceremonial purposes. However, that history is able to enjoy the remains of Persepolis as opposed to meager remnants of Susa, owes partly to selection of stone in construction of Persepolis over mud-brick in Susa, and the fact that it had been relatively uninhabited, protecting it from wear and tear of inhabitants. Politically, Persepolis also was a significant find because nearby discovery of Naqsh-e Rustam, the Persian necropolis home to Darius the Great shed light on the significance it has had as one of the major capitals of the empire. Naqsh-e Rustam would not only house Darius the Great, but also his son Xerxes the Great, Artaxerxes I, and Darius II as well. The necropolis complex was looted following invasion of Alexander, and possibly in the Sassanid period and during the Arab invasion.\n\nDuring the time of Shah of Iran, the structure enjoyed protection and coverage as Mohammad Reza Shah appeased to its royal and national symbolism. During this time period many western politicians, poets, artists, and writers were gravitated to Iran, and Persepolis, either as a function of the political relations with the Iranian monarchy or to report on, or visit the ruins. Such figures include the procession of international dignitaries attending the 2,500 year celebration of the Persian Empire held by Shah, as well as individual visits by such figures as Heinrich Lübke of Germany, and Ralph Graves of \"Life\" magazine. In an article in ``Life`` in 1971, Graves describes his experience at Persepolis in the following way:\n\nThroughout history there have been instances of neglect or vandalism in Persepolis. The most notable historical figure to vandalize this structure was Alexander the Great, who after entering Persepolis in 330 B.C.E. called it the \"most hateful city in Asia\" and allowed his Macedonian troops to pillage it. Despite this stern hatred, Alexander also admired the Persians as is obvious through his respect for Cyrus the Great, and his act of giving a dignified burial to Darius III. Years later upon revisiting the city he had burnt, Alexander would regret his action. Plutarch depicts the paradoxical nature of Alexander when he recounts an anecdote in which Alexander pauses and talks to a fallen statue of Xerxes the Great as if it were a live person:\n\nIn retrospect, it must be understood that despite his momentary lapse of judgment and his role as having been the single most significant figure to bring an end to Persepolis, Alexander is not by any means the only. Many individuals in the following centuries would damage Persepolis including thieves and vandals during the Sassanid era. When the Arab armies invaded in the seventh century, they took to causing civil disturbances, religious persecution of Persians, and burning of the books. That no clear record of their vandalism remains to date, is most likely due to their destruction of books and historical records.\n\nDuring the colonial era, and in WWII, the structure would also suffer vandalism at the hands of the Allies. Natural causes such as earthquakes and winds have also contributed to the overall demise of the structure.\n\nThe first French excavation in Susa carried out by the Dieulafoys and the looting and the destruction of Persian antiquities by the so-called archeologists had a deep impact on the site. Jane Dieulafoy writes in her diary:\n\nEven to date the structure is not safe from destruction and vandalism. After the Iranian revolution, a group of fundamentalists serving Khomeini, including his right-hand man Sadegh Khalkhali, tried to bulldoze both the renown Persian poet, Ferdowsi's tomb, and Persepolis, but they were stopped by the provisional government.\n\nThe gallery below highlights only some of these unfortunate acts of vandalism mostly by foreign visitors from the late 1800s to mid-1900s. Currently the structure is at high risk of \"irreparable damage.\"\n\nFrench archaeologist, Egyptologist, and historian Charles Chipiez (1835–1901) has created some of the most advanced virtual drawings of what Persepolis would have looked like as a metropolis of the Persian Empire. The following mini-gallery depicts his virtual recreations.\n\nThe first image on the left is a view of the \"Talar-i-Takht\" or the 100 columns hall of Persepolis. Note on the far left portion of the image, the famous \"lamassu\" (or chimeric man, lion, eagle beast) greeting the visitors (look below for a picture of a lamassu). Chipiez's drawings delineate his technical prowess and attention to details.\n\nThe second picture from the left, is Chipiez's drawing of the columns, their capital ornation, and roof structure of the palace of Darius in Persepolis, also known as \"Tachar.\" Note the adorsed bull details, as well as the use of wood in construction of the roof. This explains why the palace caught fire when Alexander the Great, set it aflame.\n\nThe third picture from the left, is a more detailed, technical drawing of the \"Talar-i-Takht\" or the 100 column hall. Note the layering of the roof, the detailing on the edges of the roof, the window structures, and the technical detailing of the construction poles.\n\nThe last picture, on the right, is a panoramic view of the outside of the palace of Darius the Great in Persepolis. Details of the Persepolis reliefs are depicted as one can note the symbolic scenes of lions attacking bulls, accompanied by two groups of Persian soldiers protecting (symbolically in this case) the infrastructure above.\n\nSusa was an ancient city (5500 B.C.E) even by the time of the Achaemenids. Susa became a part of the Achaemenid Empire in 539 B.C.E., and was expanded upon by Darius the Great with construction of Palace of Darius, and later development of palace of Artaxerxes II. The palace had a unique Apadana, resembling the one in Persepolis, except this hall was much larger than its Persepolis counterpart covering some 9,200 square meters. Cyrus the Great chose Susa as a site for one of his fortifications creating a wall there that was significantly taller than older walls made by the Elamites. This choice might have been to facilitate the trade from Persian Gulf northward. What remains in way of structure from this once active capital, are five archaeological mounds, today located in modern Shush, in southwestern Iran, scattered over 250 hectares.\n\nDarius's design of his palace in Susa would resemble Persepolis structurally and aesthetically but would incorporate more of a local flair. The structure hosted a large hall of throne or \"Apadana\" similar to the Apadana of the Persepolis. This Susa version of Apadana would be composed of three porticoes at right angles to each other, one of which was closed in all three sides by the walls, and only open in its southward direction. The palace was decorated with reliefs in enameled terra-cotta of lions walking.\n\nIntricate scenes depicting archers of king Darius would decorate the walls, as well as motifs of nature such as double-bulls, unicorns, fasciae curling into volutes, and palms disposed as a flower or a bell. The archers in particular depict a unique symbiosis of Persian, Ionian and Greek artistry of the time probably reflecting the origin of the artists who were originally hired by Darius the Great, and their personal reflections on the finished work. Perhaps the most striking terra-cotta relief is that of the griffin, depicting a winged creature resembling a lion with wings of an eagle (picture not shown here). The terra-cotta brick reliefs were decorated with lively dye colorations often giving them a lifelike quality.\n\nArchitecturally, the palace of Darius in Susa, was the epitome of the Persian architecture at the height of the empire's growth. Originally erected by Darius, and extensively renovated and modified by Artaxerxes II, it was meant to reflect the same opulence and prestige as Persepolis. This was Darius the Great's attempt to decorate his summer capital of Susa and to show case its glory. French archaeologist Marcel-Auguste Dieulafoy discovered the remnants of the palace of Darius, among the ruins of Susa producing the artifacts of this once magnificent structure now at display in the Louvre museum, France. He also wrote a series of architectural observations known as \"L'Art antique de la Perse\" which made a significant impression on the art community as to the intricacy of the Achaemenid architecture. Although Dieulafoy and his wife Jane, made significant contributions in way of excavation, Susa remains were noted by many observers years before and were in fact officially noted by William K. Loftus in 1852.\n\nSusa was a wealthy city by the time Alexander the Great invaded it, and it is said that he required 10,000 camels and 20,000 donkeys to carry away the treasures. For the most part the architectural wealth of Susa lies in its palaces, and ceremonial structures most of which have been eroded away by time or wear and tear. Today the most important remnants of the Achaemenid contribution to the architecture of ancient Susa are found in remnants of the Palace of Darius the Great in the original excavation site, or hosted in foreign nations' museums as Persian artifacts. Today the archaeological remains of the structure remain exposed to the elements, wear and tear, and human activity, and it seems that remains of Susa would be forever lost to the humankind, except perhaps for few selected pieces on display at the Louvre or foreign nations' museums.\n\nBelow are a few selected photos from the palace of Darius. The photo on the far left depicts the famous Archers' relief from the palace of Darius, from Susa. The second picture from the right, is a two-dimensional \"lamassu\" a mythical creature with wings of an eagle, head of a man, and body of a lion. The picture in the middle, is of the base of a column from the palace of Darius in Susa, inscribing in its rim, in three languages (Babylonian, Elamite, and Old Persian), that Darius, is the \"great king of kings.\"\n\nNaqsh-e Rustam is an archaeological site located about 6 kilometers to the northwest of Persepolis in Marvdasht region in the Fars province of Iran. Nash-e Rustam acts as a necropolis for the Achaemenid kings, but is a significant historical entity in that it also housed ancient Elamite relief, as well as later relief by the Sassanid kings. Naqsh-e Rustam is not the actual name of this massive structure, but is the New Persian compound word composed of \"Naqsh\" meaning \"face\", or \"facade\", and \"Rustam\" referring to the hero of the Persian epic Shahnameh. The Elamites, Achaemenids, and the Sassanids lived centuries before the drafting of the Shahnameh by the Persian poet Ferdowsi, and therefore the name is a misnomer, the result of the great amnesia of Persians about their ancient past, that settled over them after being conquered by the Arabs.\n\nThe name therefore is a retrospective creation, due to lack of historical documents and lack of any inclusive knowledge of its origin. In ancient Persia, this structure would overlook the now long gone city of Istakhr easily accessible from Persepolis. Istakhr had a religious role as it was the place where Achaemenids held their reverence of the water goddess Anahita. The structure is carved into a native limestone rock mountain, and houses the burial chambers of Darius the Great, Xerxes I, Artaxerxes I, and Darius II, all Achaemenid monarchs of Persia. There is also an incomplete tomb, as only its lower cruciform arm is carved out of the rock, while the rest is unfinished. It is speculated to belong to king Darius III.\n\nThe kings were interred behind a facade and rock relief, that would resemble an accurate depiction of the king's own palace and its structural details. The accuracy of the facade and its association with the actual structure of the kings' palaces is so close that they almost produce a view of how the structures would have looked before time reduced them to remains; Tomb of Darius the Great, for instance mirrors his palace in Persepolis, the \"Tachar\" even in scale and dimensions.\n\nThe tombs are carved into the mountain's side, in form of a cross (Old Persian: \"chalipa\"), depressed into the mountain's limestone background, and elevated from the ground. The relief which is found in the depressed cruciform is that which depicts the respective king's palace, and also depicts on its roof, the relief figure of the king praying, to Ahuramazda or what most believe is a reference to the Zoroastrian icon, Faravahar.\n\nOne of the enigmatic features of the complex is a cubical, stone structure standing 12.5 meters tall, and around 7 meters wide, called the \"Ka'ba-ye Zartosht\" translating to the \"Cube of Zoroaster\" believed to have been constructed during the Acahemenid era and modified and changed during the Sassanid era. The structure is cubical in base, with blind impressions on the side resembling windows, and a ruined staircase leading to a small door in the front leading to a completely empty interior. There are varied speculations as to its function discussed below.\n\nThe structure also once housed an ancient Elamite relief which has been almost entirely replaced by the Sassanid reliefs. Today but a figure of a man remains of the Elamite contribution to this mountain. The later Sassanids, also created their own historical signature on the structure, called the Naqsh-e Rajab. Though numerous and very detailed, the study of the Sassanid architectural achievements sheds light on some of the architectural achievements during the second Persian empire's reign.\nThis enigmatic structure stands erect around 12.5 meters tall (~ 35 feet), with a linear, cubical shape and a square base (~ 22 feet in sides), constructed in what is essentially a dug out rectangular depression, having on all but one of its sides, four rectangular depressions resembling blind windows, and multiple minute rectangular depressions in the façade interdispersed among the blind windows as well as the side housing the staircase. The staircase leads to a small door (5 feet by 6 feet in dimensions) opening to an interior apartment of about 12 feet square. The structure's roof houses a minimal entablature of a repeating square pattern. The entire structure is posited on a raised stone platform that is composed of a few stone slabs, in a sequentially smaller yet in a concentric, pyramidally shaped succession. This structure is enigmatic, both in its aesthetic choice seen in its rather odd design, and façade, as well as its location, and supposed function.\n\nFrom one perspective, its proximity to the kings' tombs, and its simple design, is by some scholars thought to indicate that the cube was a Zoroastrian temple, and the Naqsh-e Rustam was more than a mere place for grieving of the deceased kings, but a grand festive center where crowds would gather on festive days to observe the king pray to Ahuramazda, and bask in the structure's magnitude while praying to Ahuramazda. This would certainly be logical as the city was also adjacent to Istakhr, a major religious and cultural center. The concept of the temple being used as a fire sanctuary, is however not likely because there is no general ventilation for smoke and gasses, and also that it differs so drastically, architecturally and aesthetically from other well known contemporary temple sites in Pars.\n\nCuriously the design although unique, is not the only one of its kind. Located not far away from the Cube of Zoroaster, there exists in Pasargadae, even to date, remnants of a structure that is very similar in its square shape and design to the \"\"Cube of Zoroaster\", called \"Zendan-i-Suleiman\".\" The name \"Zendan-i-Suleiman,\" is a compound word composed of the words, \"Zendan\" which is Persian for \"jail\", and \"Suleiman\" which is a local Persian dialect name of the King Solomon, translating to \"Jail of Solomon.\" Structurally both \"Jail of Solomon\" and \"Cube of Zoroaster\" have the same cubic shape, and even resemble each other in the most minute of details, including facade, and dimensions. The name \"Jail of Solomon\" is of course a misnomer since Solomon never did erect this structure. The term must have come as a result of a Persian tactic advised by local Persians, to protect both Cyrus the Great's tomb, and the surrounding structures including this temple, from invading Arabs' destruction, by calling the mausoleum, the \"tomb of Solomon's mother\" and the temple in Pasargadae, the \"Jail of Solomon.\"\n\nJust like the \"Cube of Zoroaster\", the function of the \"Solomon's Jail\" is not well understood. There are theories about the structures being used as a depository of objects of dynastic or religious importance as well as theories of it being a temple of fire. It should also be noted, that the structures as they exist today are not simply the work of the Achaemenid architects and have been modified, and improved by the Sassanids, who also used them for their festive, and political needs.\nCarved high in Mount Behistun of Kermanshah, one can find the Behistun inscription, a text etched into the stone of the mountain describing the manner in which Darius became the king of Persia, after the previous ruler (Cambyses II), and how he overthrew the magus usurper of the throne. In this inscription Darius also details his satraps and delineates his position as the king and emperor of the Persian empire.\n\nArchitecturally speaking, the Behistun inscription is a massive project, that entailed cutting into the rough edge of the mountain in order to create bas-relief figures as seen in the pictures above. The Behistun mountain, rises up to some 1700 feet as part of the Zagros mountain chains in Iran. The mountain's location is ideal being close to both Ecbatana and Babylonia. The bas-relief itself is located some 300 feet above the base of the mountain. The figures represent two of the king's soldiers, the king himself standing over a fallen usurper and captives of several nations possibly dissidents, or co-conspirators. The inscription itself is written in cuneiform character in Old Persian, Babylonian, and Median.\n\nThe inscription is interpreted and deciphered with the help of many intellectuals and scholars, but the Orientalist Sir Henry Rawlinson is credited as being most critical in the process of deciphering the piece. Part of why the understanding of the text is so vivid today is owed to Darius the Great himself, for he wrote the message of the inscription in three language, and so allowed the modern scholars to decipher one language and follow through the other two, since the message was essentially similar in all three forms. In this sense, the Behistun inscription is not only a significant architectural work, but also a significant linguistic tool, as important to the old world understanding of ancient Persia and its languages, as Rosetta Stone is to understanding ancient Egypt and its languages.\nElements of the Achaemenid style can be seen in contemporary Iranian architecture. Buildings built by the Pahlavi dynasty, in particular, show extensive influence of Achaemenid architecture and art.\n\n"}
{"id": "23716391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23716391", "title": "African Journal of International Affairs and Development", "text": "African Journal of International Affairs and Development\n\nThe African Journal of International Affairs and Development is a peer-reviewed biannual academic journal covering the study of Africa in global affairs and development. It is hosted by African Journals OnLine.\n"}
{"id": "23665489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23665489", "title": "Afroasiatic Urheimat", "text": "Afroasiatic Urheimat\n\nThe term Afroasiatic \"Urheimat\" refers to the hypothetical place where speakers of the proto-Afroasiatic language lived in a single linguistic community, or complex of communities, before this original language dispersed geographically and divided into separate distinct languages. This speech area is known as the \"Urheimat\" (\"original homeland\" in German). Afroasiatic languages are today distributed in parts of Africa and Western Asia.\n\nThe contemporary Afroasiatic languages are spoken in the Near East, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and parts of the Sahara/Sahel. The various hypotheses for the Afroasiatic \"Urheimat\" are distributed throughout this territory; that is, it is generally assumed that proto-Afroasiatic was spoken in some region where Afroasiatic languages are still spoken today. However, there is argument as to which part of the contemporary Afroasiatic speech area corresponds with the original homeland.\n\nThe earliest written evidence of an Afroasiatic language is an Ancient Egyptian inscription dated c. 3400 BC (5,400 years ago). Symbols on Gerzean pottery resembling Egyptian hieroglyphs date back to c. 4000 BC, suggesting a still earlier possible date. This gives us a minimum date for the age of Afroasiatic. However, Ancient Egyptian is highly divergent from proto-Afroasiatic (Trombetti 1905: 1–2), and considerable time must have elapsed in between them. Estimates of the date at which the proto-Afroasiatic language was spoken vary widely. They fall within a range between approximately 7,500 BC (9,500 years ago) and approximately 16,000 BC (18,000 years ago). According to Igor M. Diakonoff (1988: 33n), proto-Afroasiatic was spoken c. 10,000 BC. According to Christopher Ehret (2002: 35–36), proto-Afroasiatic was spoken c. 11,000 BC at the latest, and possibly as early as c. 16,000 BC. These dates are older than dates associated with most other protolanguages. Culturally this falls within the period of the Halfan culture which may have been proto-Afroasiatic.\n\nSupporters of a non-North or north East African origin for Afroasiatic are particularly common among those with a background in Semitic or Egyptological studies, or amongst archaeological proponents of the \"farming/language dispersal hypothesis\" according to which major language groups dispersed with early farming technology in the Neolithic. The leading linguistic proponent of this idea in recent times is Alexander Militarev. Arguments for and against this position depend upon the contested proposal that farming-related words can be reconstructed in Proto-Afroasiatic, with farming technology being widely thought to have spread from the Levant into North Africa and then the Horn of Africa.\n\nMilitarev, who linked proto-Afroasiatic to the Levantine Natufian culture, that preceded the spread of farming technology, believes the language family to be about 10,000 years old. He wrote (Militarev 2002, p. 135) that the \"Proto-Afrasian language, on the verge of a split into daughter languages\", meaning, in his scenario, into \"Cushitic, Omotic, Egyptian, Semitic and Chadic-Berber\", \"should be roughly dated to the ninth millennium BC\". But an Asiatic origin need not be associated exclusively with the migration of agricultural populations: according to linguists, words for dog (an Asian domesticate) reconstruct to Proto-Afroasiatic as well as words for bow and arrow, which according to archaeologists spread rapidly across North Africa once they were introduced from the Near East i.e. Ounan points. A scenario that also fits the linguistic evidence is one in which Afroasiatic languages were introduced into Africa together with advanced hunting techniques before the subsequent introduction of agriculture.\n\nThe Horn of Africa, particularly the area of Ethiopia and Eritrea, has been proposed by some linguists as the origin of the language group because it includes the majority of the diversity of the Afroasiatic language family and has very diverse groups in close geographic proximity, sometimes considered a telltale sign for a linguistic geographic origin. Within this hypothesis there are several variants:\nAlthough at Lake Turkana microlithic arrowheads appear in southern Africa (71,000 BP) and with the Aterian culture (30,000 BP) suggests that arrowheads \"may\" have been an invention originating in Africa taken into the Near East by a pre-Afroasiatic late glacial migration. At the site of Nataruk in Turkana County, Kenya, obsidian bladelets found embedded in a skull and within the thoracic cavity of another skeleton, may suggest the use of stone-tipped arrows as weapons. After the end of the last glacial period, use of the bow seems to have spread to every inhabited continent, including the New World, except for Australia. However, these finds predate by far any proposed date for the evolution of Afroasiatic.\n\nIn the next phase, unlike many other authors Ehret proposed an initial split between northern, southern and Omotic. The northern group includes Semitic, Egyptian and Berber (agreeing with others such as Diakonoff). He proposed that Chadic stems from Berber (some other authors group it with southern Afroasiatic languages such as Cushitic ones).\n\nAnother proposal is that Semitic is an offshoot of a northern family of Afroasiatic languages, including Berber, and possibly Egyptian. It then entered the Levant and was possibly spread by what Juris Zarins calls the Syro-Arabian nomadic pastoralism complex, spreading south along the shores of the Red Sea and northeast around the edge of the \"Fertile Crescent\". \nIt is thought that Semitic speakers then crossed from South Arabia back into Eritrea.\n\nIn contrast, Bender proposed on linguistic grounds that Cushitic (found in the Horn of Africa) shares important innovations with Semitic and Berber, and that these three split off early from the others, while still near an original homeland of all Afroasiatic.\n\nIgor Diakonoff proposed the Eastern Sahara region, specifically the southern fringe of the Sahara.\n\nLionel Bender proposed the area near Khartoum, Sudan, at the confluence of the Blue Nile and White Nile. The details of his theory are widely cited but controversial, as it involves the proposal that Semitic originated in Ethiopia and crossed to Asia directly from there over the Red Sea. This could also potentially solidify Bender's argument, in that scholars today believe that there is a relationship between the Cushitic branch and the Chadic Branch; arguing that perhaps Chadic descends from Cushitic.\n\nPrior to Colonialism the Hausa peoples of present-day Niger, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, and Chad were not united as a single polity, but rather they existed as a sequence of seven city-states (situated between the Niger River and Lake Chad); each with their own Sovereign dynasty named after their shared common progenitor known as Bayajidda, who apparently came from the \"East\" to which a great deal of scholars attribute to being the \"Middle East', though this is contested. Each City-State were their own entities but were intertwined through trade, language, religion, customs, and ethnic identity/relations; hence comprising a sizable cultural stock that had greater trade links with larger states and empires such as the Ghana Empire, Mali Empire, Kanem-Bornu Empires, etc.\n\nIn current day southwestern Chad and northeastern Cameroon in the Lake Chad Basin, there are several ethnic groups that also speak an Afroasiatic language similar to the Hausas. They are known as respectively: the Biu–Mandara, Tumak, Nancere, Kera, Dangaléat, Mukulu, Sokoro, etc. Together with the Hausa, they collectively comprise the Chadic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. There are also remnants of a civilization on the Cameroon side of Lake Chad that date back to at least the sixth Century BCE; which is suspected of being the remains of the late Sao civilisation, which scholars suspect as being the result of waves of Nubian migrations into West Africa (further substantiating the claims that 'Bayajidda' hence Hausas, came from the \"East\"). Sub-groups such as the Gamergu, Kanembu, Sokoro, and Musgum all claim relations to one another as well as descent from the Sao.\n\nThe most commonly cited genetic marker in recent decades has been the Y chromosome, which is passed from father to son along paternal lines in un-mixed form, and therefore gives a relatively clear definition of one human line of descent from common ancestors. There is a high frequency of haplogroup E1b1b in select Afro-Asiatic speakers.\n\nSeveral branches of humanity's Y DNA family tree have been proposed as having an association with the spread of Afroasiatic languages.\n\n1. Haplogroup E1b1b is thought to have originated in Horn of Africa. In general, Afroasiatic speaking populations have relatively high frequencies of this haplogroup, with the notable exception of Chadic speaking populations. Christopher Ehret and Shomarka Keita have suggested that the geography of the E1b1b lineage coincides with the distribution of Afroasiatic languages.\n\n2. Haplogroup J1c3 (Y-DNA), formally known as \"J1e\", is actually a more common paternal lineage than E1b1b in most Semitic speaking populations, but this is associated with Middle Eastern origins and has apparently been spread from there after the original dispersion of Afroasiatic.\n3. Haplogroup R1b1a (R-V88), and specifically its sub-clade R-V69, has a very strong relationship with Chadic speaking populations, who unlike other Afroasiatic speakers have low frequencies of Haplogroup E1b1b. The majority of R-V88 was found in northern and central Africa, in Chadic speaking populations. It is less common in neighbouring populations. The authors also found evidence of high concentration in Western Egypt and evidence that the closest related types of R1b are found in the Middle East in the Levant, and to a lesser extent southern Europe. They proposed that an Eastern Saharan origin for Chadic R1b would agree with linguistic theories such as those of Christopher Ehret, that Chadic and Berber form a related group within Afroasiatic, which originated in the area of the Sahara. R1b-V88 had probably entered Africa from Western Asia, via Egypt, and moved south along the Nile river and eventually crossing over to West Africa between 9,200 and 5,600 years ago. Semitic-speaking Assyrians were reported to have the Indo-European-linked haplogroup R-M269 at a frequency of 40%.\n\nIn contrast to the evidence from paternally inherited Y DNA, a recent study has shown that a branch of mitochondrial haplogroup L3 links the maternal ancestry of Chadic speakers from the Sahel with Cushitic speakers from Horn of Africa.\n\nOther mitochondrial lineages that are associated with Afroasiatic include mitochondrial haplogroups M1 and haplogroup U6. Gonzalez et al. 2007 suggest that Afroasiatic speakers may have dispersed from Horn of Africa carrying the subclades M1a and U6a1.\n\nAccording to an autosomal DNA study by Hodgson et al. (2014), the Afroasiatic languages were likely spread across Africa and the Near East by an ancestral population(s) carrying a newly identified non-African genetic component, which the researchers dub the \"Ethio-Somali\". This Ethio-Somali component is today most common among Afroasiatic-speaking populations in the Horn of Africa. It is most closely related to the Maghrebi non-African genetic component, and is believed to have diverged from all other non-African ancestries at least 23,000 years ago. On this basis, the researchers suggest that the original Ethio-Somali carrying population(s) probably arrived in the pre-agricultural period from the Near East, having crossed over into northeastern Africa via the Sinai peninsula. The population then likely split into two branches, with one group heading westward toward the Maghreb and the other moving south into the Horn. A related hypothesis that associates the origin of the ancestors of Afroasiatic speakers as the result of a reflux population from Southwest Asia during the Late Palaeolithic was previously put forward by Daniel McCall.\n\nThe Nostratic language family is a proposed macrofamily grouping together a number of language families including Indo-European, Uralic, Altaic, and more controversially Afroasiatic. Following Pedersen, Illich-Svitych, and Dolgopolsky, most advocates of the theory have included Afroasiatic in Nostratic, though criticisms by Joseph Greenberg and others from the late 1980s onward suggested a reassessment of this position.\n\nIlya Yabonovich and other linguists, in examining the differences between the various members of the Afroasiatic family have realised that all of the old etymologies for this group were inherently semitocentric. The differences between Chadic, Omotic, Cushitic and Semitic, were wider than those seen between any members of the Indo-European family and as wide as some of the differences seen within and between separate language families, for example, Indo-European and Altaic. Certainly the exclusion of Afroasiatic from the controversial Nostratic family has simplified matters of phonemics, not having to include the complex patterns seen in Afroasiatic languages.\n\nAllan Bomhard (1994) retains Afroasiatic within Nostratic, despite his admission that Proto–Afroasiatic is very different from the other members of the proposed linguistic Nostratic superfamily. As a result, he suggests it was probably the first language to have split from the Nostratic linguistic superfamily.\nRecently, however, a consensus has been emerging among proponents of the Nostratic hypothesis. Greenberg in fact basically agreed with the Nostratic concept, though he stressed a deep internal division between its northern 'tier' (his Eurasiatic) and a southern 'tier' (principally Afroasiatic and Dravidian). The American Nostraticist Bomhard considers Eurasiatic a branch of Nostratic alongside other branches: Afroasiatic, Elamo-Dravidian, and Kartvelian. Similarly, Georgiy Starostin (2002) arrives at a tripartite overall grouping: he considers Afroasiatic, Nostratic and Elamite to be roughly equidistant and more closely related to each other than to anything else. Sergei Starostin's school has now re-included Afroasiatic in a broadly defined Nostratic, while reserving the term Eurasiatic to designate the narrower subgrouping which comprises the rest of the macrofamily. Recent proposals thus differ mainly on the precise placement of Dravidian and Kartvelian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599665", "title": "Alice Waters", "text": "Alice Waters\n\nAlice Louise Waters (born April 28, 1944) is an American chef, restaurateur, activist and author. She is the owner of Chez Panisse, a Berkeley, California restaurant famous for its organic, locally grown ingredients and for pioneering California cuisine, which she opened in 1971.\n\nIn addition to her restaurant, Waters has written several books on food and cooking, including \"Chez Panisse Cooking\" (with Paul Bertolli), \"The Art of Simple Food I and II,\" and \"40 Years of Chez Panisse.\" Her memoir, \"Coming to my Senses: The Making of a Counterculture Cook\" was published in September 2017 and released in paperback in May 2018.\n\nShe founded the Chez Panisse Foundation in 1996, and created the Edible Schoolyard program at the Martin Luther King Middle School in Berkeley, California. Waters serves as a public policy advocate on the national level for school lunch reform and universal access to healthy, organic foods, and the impact of her work in organic food and nutrition is typified by Michelle Obama's White House organic vegetable garden.\n\nWaters was born in Chatham Borough, New Jersey on April 28, 1944 to Charles Allen Waters, a Rutgers University graduate who was a management consultant, and Margaret Waters who was a stay at home mom. Alice graduated from the University of California, Berkeley after transferring there from UC Santa Barbara. She received a degree in French Cultural Studies in 1967. During her time at UC Berkeley, she studied abroad in France, where she shopped for local produce and prepared fresh foods simply in order to enhance the experience of the table. During her time in France, she says she \"lived at the bottom of a market street\" and \"took everything in by osmosis\".\n\nShe brought this style of food preparation back to Berkeley, where she popularized the concept of market-fresh cooking with the local products available to her in Northern California. For her, food is a way of life and not just something to eat.\n\nDuring her time at UC Berkeley, Waters became active in the Free Speech Movement, which was sweeping across the campus.\n\nWaters worked on the congressional campaign of Robert Scheer, an anti-Vietnam War politician. She often cooked for and entertained her fellow campaigners.\n\nWaters eventually returned to Europe, where she first trained at a Montessori school in London, and then spent time traveling in Turkey and then in France once again. Principles of the Montessori method, which emphasize practical and hands-on activities for children, are evident in Waters' idea of \"edible education\" and her Edible Schoolyard, which engages children in the preparation of fruits and vegetables that they tend to with the supervision of their teachers.\n\nAfter training in London, Waters next traveled to Turkey, which she credits with influencing her approach to hospitality and deepening her respect for local communities. In his book \"Alice Waters and Chez Panisse\", Thomas McNamee recounts Waters' experience in Turkey, where a young Turkish boy shared tea and a small bit of cheese with Waters and her traveling companions, even though he had very little. This small act of kindness had an effect on Waters's approach to hospitality and generosity in her own restaurant.\n\nFrom Turkey, Waters then returned to France, where she embarked upon a year-long journey. Her travels solidified her love of all things food and French and inspired her to return to California and open Chez Panisse.\n\nWaters counts Elizabeth David, the English cookbook author and writer, as one of her influences. She also credits Richard Olney, an American authority on French food who spent much of his life living in France, with influencing her simple, rustic cuisine.\n\nOlney introduced Waters to Lucien and Lulu Peyraud, owners of the Domaine Tempier vineyard in Provence. Lulu Peyraud's vineyard cooking significantly influenced Waters' cooking and her menus at Chez Panisse. In her foreword to Olney's book, \"Lulu's Provençal Table\", Waters wrote: \"Lucien and Lulu's warmhearted enthusiasm for life, their love for the pleasures of the table, their deep connection to the beautiful earth of the South of France – these were things I had seen at the movies. But this was for real. I felt immediately as if I had come home to second family.\"\n\nIn addition, Waters has said that she learned Chinese cooking from Cecilia Chiang, and the two became lifelong friends. Waters has said that what Chiang did to popularize Chinese cuisine in America is what Julia Child did for French Cuisine.\n\nIn 1971, Waters opened Chez Panisse, which she named for a favorite character in a trilogy of Marcel Pagnol films. From the beginning, the restaurant was a collaborative effort; one notable collaboration was with Jeremiah Tower, who created the recipes that she later published under her name. Tower took the organic ingredients and melded them into a more refined menu. Chez Panisse was intended to serve primarily as a place where Waters could entertain her friends. Realizing the difficulty in sourcing fresh, high-quality ingredients, Waters began building a network of local farmers, artisans, and producers, and continues to source the restaurant's ingredients through her local network. Waters opened the upstairs Chez Panisse Café, a concept championed by Tower, in 1980. Café serves an a la carte menu for lunch and dinner. In 1984, Waters opened Café Fanny, named after her daughter, a few blocks from the restaurant. Café Fanny, which served breakfast and lunch in a casual, European-café setting, closed in 2012.\nThe Waters mainly focused on the importance of organic farmers. Through Chez Panisse foundation, the project called \"Edible Schoolyard\" was organized in order to make an environment for the students to grow their own products.\n\nCentral to the operations and philosophy of Chez Panisse is Waters' and the restaurant's dedication to using organic ingredients. Waters has become a crusader for organic foods, believing that they are both better for the environment and for people's health in addition to tasting superior to commercially grown, non-organic foods.\n\nWaters became an organic devotee almost by accident, claiming that what she was originally after was taste. She says: \"When I opened up Chez Panisse, I was only thinking about taste. And in doing that, I ended up at the doorstep of [organic farmers].\"\n\nWaters' current organic food agenda includes reforming the USDA school lunch program to include organic, local fruits and vegetables and changing the way America eats, but her passion for organics started at her restaurant, where she discovered that organic ingredients were the essential element necessary to create delicious food. \n\nWaters' effort to promote fresh, sustainable food grown by local farms has extended into her work as a food activist and humanitarian. Waters has always been an outspoken supporter of the restaurant's approach to food, cooking, and supporting the local community, but has more recently formalized her efforts through the Chez Panisse Foundation.\n\nIn celebration of the restaurant's 25th anniversary, Waters founded the Chez Panisse Foundation in 1996, whose mission is to transform public education by using food to teach, nurture, and empower young people. In particular, the Foundation has worked with the Berkeley Unified School District to develop a public school curriculum that is integrated with the school dining services and incorporates growing, cooking, and sharing food at the table into the school day in order to build a humane and sustainable future for the school's students.\n\nThe Chez Panisse Foundation is a publicly supported 501(c)(3) organization.\n\nThe primary work of the Chez Panisse Foundation has been to establish and sustain the Edible Schoolyard program at Berkeley's Martin Luther King, Jr. Middle School. The Edible Schoolyard was established in 1995 and is a organic garden and kitchen classroom. Students at the middle school are involved in growing, harvesting, and preparing the foods from the garden, with the aim of promoting the environmental and social well-being of the school community.\n\nWaters' work at the Edible Schoolyard has also developed into her School Lunch Initiative, which has the broader goal of bringing school children into a new relationship with food by making a healthy, fresh, sustainable meal a part of the school day. The School Lunch Initiative is a collaborative project with the Center for Ecoliteracy, also in Berkeley, and is also the topic of a series of studies through the Center for Weight and Health, at UC Berkeley.\n\nThe School Lunch Initiative is focused on bringing wholesome school lunch to the 10,000 students in the Berkeley Unified School District. In 2005, the Chez Panisse Foundation provided a grant to Berkeley schools to hire Ann Cooper as the Director of Nutrition Services for the district. Cooper and the Foundation eliminated almost all processed foods from the district and introduced organic fruits and vegetables to the daily menu, all while staying within the district's budget. Waters' vision is to teach subjects such as history, science, and art through the vehicle of food.\n\nIn September 2010, the Center for Weight and Health at UC Berkeley, Center for Ecoliteracy, and Chez Panisse Foundation released an evaluation report on the School Lunch Initiative. The report tracked elementary and middle school students over three years to determine the effects of the School Lunch Initiative on children's eating habits and knowledge. The report found that students in schools with highly developed School Lunch Initiative components ate more daily servings of fruit and vegetables than students in schools with lesser developed programs, and that they scored higher on food knowledge assessments. Schools with highly developed School Lunch Initiative components integrated kitchen and garden classes into the school curriculum, in addition to overhauling the school lunch program.\n\nAlthough the work of the Chez Panisse Foundation has focused primarily on the Berkeley Unified School District, Waters has become a vocal and familiar advocate for school lunch reform and activism at the national level, as well. She encouraged President Bill Clinton to plant a White House garden. In 2009, she appeared on the CBS television program \"60 Minutes,\" and made a public call for President Obama to plant an organic garden at the White House to catalyze change in the US food system. Michelle Obama, in conjunction with her anti-obesity campaign Let's Move!, planted the White House organic vegetable garden that year. An article in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" states that:\n\nObama's Let's Move campaign, which replaced her predecessor's literacy drive, addresses much of what Waters has been preaching…Chris Lehane, a political consultant who has worked for Al Gore and Bill Clinton, sees Waters as \"the George Washington of the movement and Northern California as the 13 colonies…If you're going to pick a figure who's responsible for it all, it all comes back to her.\"\n\nIn addition to the Edible Schoolyard in Berkeley, there are five affiliate Edible Schoolyard programs around the country. These include Edible Schoolyards in New Orleans, New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Greensboro, North Carolina. The Edible Schoolyard in New Orleans serves students in grades K through 8 from the Green Charter and Arthur Ashe Charter Schools. In addition to Open Garden, which includes the entire community in preparing a seasonal meal, the Edible Schoolyard has become a part of the school curriculum, and helps students learn about Creole cooking and indigenous food traditions. The affiliate program in New York City, located in Brooklyn at P.S. 216, will boast a newly designed kitchen and a four-season greenhouse in addition to a quarter-acre organic farm. P.S. 216 has nearly 500 students in grades K though 5, with 16% English language learners. The Greensboro affiliate program opened in 2009 at the Greensboro Children's Museum, and hosts a variety of weekend, after-school, and summer programs for children in the community. The program will also provide training and education for community parents and early childhood professionals.\n\nThe Larchmont Charter Schools in Los Angeles incorporate several gardens into their four campuses, which infuse the school curriculum with real-life applications through gardening and science. Participation in the school lunch program at the Larchmont Charter Schools is mandatory, and often features a family-style lunch made from local and organic ingredients. The San Francisco Edible Schoolyard program is operated through the Boys and Girls Club in Hunters Point, where there is a distinct need for access to healthy food and nutrition education. In addition to hosting an garden, the program hosts cooking classes and organizes trips to local farmers markets.\n\nCurrently, Waters is working at the national policy level to extend free school meals to all public school children in the United States. She hopes to expand programs like the Edible Schoolyard and the School Lunch Initiative in order to reach schools across the US. She supports the Child Nutrition Reauthorization Act, and believes that providing all public school students with free food in school would build the foundation for a healthier and more sustainable food culture in the US.\n\nIn 2003, Waters helped create the Yale Sustainable Food Project, which aims to make sustainable food an important part of university-level education. The project maintains an on-campus organic farm and integrates organic, local products into the university's dining program \n\nSince 2002, Waters has served as a Vice President of Slow Food International, an organization dedicated to preserving local food traditions, protecting biodiversity, promoting small-scale quality products around the world. She was drawn to the Slow Food movement because of its work in passing food knowledge and traditions to future generations.\n\n\n\"Gourmet\" magazine awarded Chez Panisse restaurant as the Best Restaurant in America in 2001. In addition, Waters has won other honors.\n\n"}
{"id": "47192798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47192798", "title": "Amarna letter EA 11", "text": "Amarna letter EA 11\n\nAmarna letter EA11 is a letter of correspondence to Akhenaten of Egypt from the king of Babylon, Burna-Buriash II.\n\nThe tablet onto which letter EA11 is inscribed is badly damaged.\n\nThe letter content suggests of the place Amarna having experienced an epidemic of some kind of plague.\n\nThe letter (together with letter EA10) seems to undoubtedly indicate that Akhenaten married his daughters Meritaten and Ankhesenpaaten at a time when they were both 11 of 12 years of age. Meritaten is described as the mistress of the royal house within the text. \n\nThe letter is part of a series of correspondences from Babylonia to Egypt, which run from EA2 to EA4 and EA6 to EA14. EA1 and EA5 are from Egypt to Babylonia. \n\n"}
{"id": "386565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386565", "title": "Amelia Peabody", "text": "Amelia Peabody\n\nAmelia Peabody Emerson is the protagonist of the Amelia Peabody series, a series of historical mystery novels written by author Elizabeth Peters (a pseudonym of Egyptologist Barbara Mertz, 1927–2013). Peabody is married to Egyptologist Radcliffe Emerson and has one biological child, Walter \"Ramses\" Peabody Emerson.\n\nAmelia Peabody is first introduced in the novel \"Crocodile on the Sandbank\", set in 1884. She is the spinster daughter of a reclusive scholar who left her to deal with practical issues such as shopping and administering the household while he spent time in his office. He nurtured her scholarly interest, while the rest of her immediate family dismissed them both. Following his death, Peabody's devotion to her father was rewarded with her being named sole beneficiary of his substantial fortune of over £500,000 (over £30 million in 2006 values). Partly in order to escape the attention of numerous fortune-hunting suitors and relatives begging for money, she embarks on a tour of classical sites, beginning in Italy and moving on to Egypt with the eventual aim of visiting Palestine. While in Rome, she rescues a young woman in trouble, Evelyn Barton Forbes, whom she hires to be her companion.\n\nIn Egypt, the pair encounters the Emerson brothers, Radcliffe, an archaeologist, and Walter, a philologist. Over the course of the novel, Walter pursues Evelyn resulting in their engagement by the book's end—while less overt, the relationship between Amelia and Radcliffe develops toward their own marriage. In keeping with the egalitarian nature of their relationship, the two propose to each other, with Amelia teasing that she agreed because marriage to Emerson was the only way that she could engage in Egyptology without causing a scandal.\n\nThe pair refer to each other by their respective surnames: Emerson refers to Amelia as \"Peabody,\" using her first name only when he is annoyed with her. In turn, Peabody refers to Radcliffe Emerson almost exclusively by his surname, \"Emerson\", although some other family members call him Radcliffe. It is eventually revealed that he dislikes his first name as it was his estranged mother's maiden name.\n\nPeabody's first (and only) child, Walter, was born in 1887. Walter quickly became known as \"Ramses\", after Emerson remarked that he was \"swarthy as an Egyptian and arrogant as a pharaoh.\"\n\nThe majority of the series is written in Amelia's voice, with Ramses providing a supplemental parallel narrative in many of the later books, identified as \"Manuscript H.\"\n\nAmelia Peabody is presented as a head-strong, confident woman who capably ran her father's household and bullied local merchants in the course of bargaining. It is quickly established that she has no patience with \"helpless\" women who play on their femininity to manipulate others into doing their will; i.e., \"swooning, weak-minded females\", according to Emerson. When home in England, she is a strong supporter of and is occasionally involved in the Suffragette Movement. She is a proponent of rational dress, and often refuses to wear a corset. (See \"Deeds of the Disturber\" for a notable exception.)\n\nWith the introduction of the Manuscript H fragments in \"Seeing a Large Cat\" the reader is introduced to her family's loving perceptions of her, which includes recognition of her extraordinary stubbornness, and utter conviction that she is right, even when she contradicts herself in the assertion. This is dealt with in good humor and affection by her family. Amelia is also addicted to romance (although she denies it vehemently), much more sentimental than she admits to and, despite her disdain for weak-willed women who employ impractical fashion, vain enough to go to great lengths to color her graying hair and hide her efforts particularly from Emerson.\n\nAt the core of her personality is her deep love for her husband (and his for her), as well as the mutual respect they share for one another.. A favourite expression of hers is \"Another shirt ruined...\" because Emerson regularly bursts out of his shirt, either in the course of an adventure or in the throes of passion. The relationship between Amelia and Emerson may best be described as 'Brontean'; the story of the handsome but rough-mannered hero tamed by the right woman plays out according to classic Romantic formula. She extends this view to her family and acquaintances, often imagining relationships that are not there, while totally missing those that are, until she is shocked by the revelation of who has proposed to whom.\n\nAmelia's dress and mannerisms are frequently the cause of comment and wonder from outsiders. In earlier books in the series it is established that her favorite ruins to explore are pyramids. She usually carries one of her collection of parasols, which she uses as discreet, or not so discreet, weapons (including a sword-parasol). Her other usual accessory is her belt, later partially replaced with a vest with many pockets. It contains: \"Pistol and knife, canteen, bottle of brandy, candle and matches in a waterproof box, notebook and pencil, needle and thread, compass, scissors, first-aid kit and a coil of stout cord (useful for tying up captured enemies).\" (\"He Shall Thunder in the Sky\", Chapter 2)\n\nThough she carries a small pistol, she is a terrible shot and rarely makes an effort to improve her skill, laughing off Emerson's suggestions that she could do more harm than good. Unfortunately, on more than one occasion she has come close to harming a member of the family while wielding the pistol, rarely blaming herself for the near miss (e.g. her shooting at Ramses and an assailant in \"The Ape Who Guards the Balance\"). Because her family is frequently involved in stopping criminal activity, and she has successfully deduced facts of numerous cases, she views herself as an expert in such matters, to the point of denigrating truly competent law enforcement officers. And because some of the plots they have uncovered were in fact complex, she tends to make all solutions, even those not involving crime, complex and even outlandish while missing the obvious. Joined with her stubbornness, this tendency to over-analyze a problem frequently leads to her holding an incorrect belief far longer than is safe for her or her family.\n\nAnother feature of the novels is the egalitarian theme, with Amelia and her family being very close to the family of their original Egyptian \"reis\" (foreman) Abdullah, to the extent that there is a marriage between Amelia's English niece and Abdullah's Coptic Christian grandson. Following the covenant of the time, this pairing is initially met with resistance from all—including Amelia, much to her own surprise—because of David's origins and nationality. It is when she has a change of heart and is able to convince others that the young couple's affection should take precedence over notions of race that the pairing is allowed to proceed. Following Abdullah's death, Amelia begins to see him in dreams, where he gives her warnings and advice, further illustrating how close they were.\n\nAmelia is a proponent of equality between the sexes, and brings up her adopted daughter, Nefret Emerson, accordingly. This does not prevent her from routinely criticizing Nefret or other young women for acting as rashly as she herself regularly does. Her name among the Egyptians is \"Sitt Hakim\", or Lady Doctor. This was given her when, soon after her initial arrival in Egypt, she showed such care for the Egyptians she encountered, particularly in treating a number of eye diseases—such as ophthalmia—that were common at the time. Her love for Egypt and its people is as deep and often reveals itself in her distaste for Europeans that view Egyptians with either condescension or disgust.\n\nPerhaps her greatest personal conflict is her long term love-hate relationship with Sethos. From the first encounter with him as the “Master Criminal”, she has seen him behind many of the plots they encounter; even when it is clear to everyone else that he is not involved. Yet she is strangely drawn to him and feels that there is something about him that fills her with emotions that are otherwise restricted to Emerson. She becomes convinced that she alone has brought about his reformation, even though it is a number of years after that “reformation” that Sethos is actually rehabilitated.\n\nWhile certainly being far more open minded than many Victorians, she is still a product of her age. Her conviction of British superiority in most everything is third, only behind her own self-confidence and her belief that Emerson is the “greatest Egyptologist of this or any age.”\n\nAmelia's age is initially given as 32 in \"Crocodile on the Sandbank\", set in 1884. In a 1994 article, Elizabeth Peters discussed the obstacle this presented:\n\n\"If I had intended \"Crocodile\" to be the first in a series, I probably wouldn't have been as specific about dates. Not only did Amelia inform the reader of her age (curse her!), but historical events mentioned in the book tied it to a particular year. As the series continued, there was no way I could get around this, or fudge the date of Ramses' birth, or keep him and his parents from aging a year every twelve months.\"\n\nAccording to this timeline, Amelia would be seventy years old in the eighteenth book, \"Tomb of the Golden Bird\", set in 1922-23. In \"The Hippopotamus Pool\", however, the Introduction contains what is supposed to be an excerpt from \"\"The National Autobiographical Dictionary\" (45th edition)\", in which Amelia herself states that she was her late twenties at the time of her first visit to Egypt. The statement is footnoted, and the footnote provides specific instructions not to question the discrepancy (pp. xii and xvi.).\n\nIn \"Seeing a Large Cat\", Emerson's age at the time they married is given as 29, making him three years younger than his wife.\n\nThe latest chronological mention of Amelia is in the compendium \"\", which mentions her taking a souvenir from her visit to Egypt in 1939, as war is looming and she was uncertain that she would ever return. Her age is given as 87, which would be correct according to the original timeline.\n\nIn an interview with Diane Rehm, Peters discussed the correct pronunciation of \"Peabody,\" which she had intended to be pronounced \"PEA-b-d\" (piːbʌdi) in the style of upper class English and New England society, not \"pea-BOD-i\" (piːbaːdiː). By contrast, in the audio versions of the books—including those recorded by voice actress Barbara Rosenblat, whom Peters has praised for her accurate pronunciation—Amelia's surname is pronounced \"pea-BOD-i.\"\n\nThe difference in nationality between the Emersons and their creator is sometimes revealed through the use of American terms like \"railroad\", spelling differences, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "52808644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52808644", "title": "Baby jumper", "text": "Baby jumper\n\nA baby jumper is a device that can be used by infants to exercise and play in. The original baby jumper consists of a hoop suspended by an elastic strap. More elaborate baby jumbers have a base made of hard plastic sitting in a frame and a suspended fabric seat with two leg holes, often with trays holding toys. The door jumpers lack the tray. There are also mobile play centers (baby walkers), which look very similar to baby jumpers, but which have wheels.\n\nThe Jolly Jumper brand refers to a Native American origin, where mothers used cradleboards to keep their infants in when travelling or working. When working outside, the mother could attach the cradleboard to a tree limb using its straps. By pulling the limb, thus causing a bouncing motion, the baby would be soothed. Jolly Jumper claims to have invented the baby jumper in 1910, using an axe handle for the spreader; however the baby jumper existed long before that. In the 1880s, various patents were granted for a “new and improved” baby jumpers, while in the 1830s, Goodyear foresaw the use of latex for baby jumpers.\n\nSome professionals warn against potential safety issues when using a jumper for prolonged periods of time, claiming that it could cause muscle imbalance if the child is placed in a sitting position before they would be able to on their own. Choice, an Australian consumer organization, warns against the use of door jumpers because of the risk of the door clamps breaking.\n\n"}
{"id": "39700014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39700014", "title": "Berman Jewish DataBank", "text": "Berman Jewish DataBank\n\nThe Berman Jewish DataBank, founded as the North American Jewish Data Bank, is the central online source for social scientific studies of North American Jewry and world Jewish populations and communities. The DataBank’s primary functions are to acquire and archive materials from quantitative studies of North American Jews, including data sets and reports, and to encourage and aid the production and utilization of quantitative research on North American Jews.\n\nThe DataBank maintains partnerships with the Berman Jewish Policy Archive and the University of Connecticut’s Center for Judaic Studies and Contemporary Jewish Life.\n\nThe DataBank holds more than 375 surveys and studies of North American Jews, including more than 200 local community studies usually commissioned by local Jewish federations. \n\nFunding for the DataBank comes from an endowment provided by the Mandell and Madeleine Berman Foundation and from The Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA), and management is provided by JFNA. The DataBank’s professional staff includes Laurence Kotler-Berkowtiz, Director of the Berman Jewish DataBank; Ron Miller, Senior Research Consultant at the Berman Jewish DataBank; and Arnold Dashefsky, Director Emeritus and Senior Academic Consultant of the Berman Jewish DataBank. \n\nThe Berman Jewish DataBank was founded as the North American Jewish Data Bank in 1986 and operated under that name until July 2013. Funded throughout that time by the Berman Foundation under an arrangement with the Jewish Federation system, the North American Jewish Data Bank was located at the City University of New York from 1986 until 2002, at Brandeis University (2003-04) and the University of Connecticut (2004-2013) before moving to JFNA and changing names as of July 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300854", "title": "Boskin Commission", "text": "Boskin Commission\n\nThe Boskin Commission, formally called the \"Advisory Commission to Study the Consumer Price Index\", was appointed by the United States Senate in 1995 to study possible bias in the computation of the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is used to measure inflation in the United States. Its final report, titled \"Toward A More Accurate Measure Of The Cost Of Living\" and issued on December 4, 1996, concluded that the CPI overstated inflation by about 1.1 percentage points per year in 1996 and about 1.3 percentage points prior to 1996. \n\nThe report was important because inflation, as calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, is used to index the annual payment increases in Social Security and other retirement and compensation programs. This implied that the federal budget had increased by more than it should have, and that projections of future budget deficits were too large. The original report calculated that the overstatement of inflation would add $148 billion to the deficit and $691 billion to the national debt by 2006.\n\nThe report highlighted four sources of possible bias:\n\nThe members of the Boskin Commission were:\n\nThe Boskin Commission was the first extensive evaluation of inflation measurement since the Stigler Commission in 1961. Griliches was also on that commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "22210696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22210696", "title": "Centre for the Study of Developing Societies", "text": "Centre for the Study of Developing Societies\n\nThe Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) is an Indian research institute for the social sciences and humanities. It was founded in 1963 by Rajni Kothari and is largely funded by the Indian Council of Social Science Research Govt of India. It is located in New Delhi, close to Delhi University. \nKothari left his position as assistant director of the National Institute of Community Development in 1963 to start the CSDS. It was housed initially in a building owned by the Indian Adult Education Association at Indraprastha Estate, Delhi. CSDS later moved in 1966-1967 to its present location.\n\nThe library at CSDS started with a few bookshelves in the basement of IAEA and grew up into a full-fledged one by 1970. It is meant primarily for research and higher learning in the field of social sciences and humanities. The collection consists of about 29,000 books and 5,000 bound volumes of journals and a modest set of reports and booklets. More than 130 journals are received regularly. Apart from works on contemporary themes, the library houses a collection of works on Asia and Africa, arms race and peace movement, non-European perspectives, science studies, ecology and environment, and human rights. There is a separate collection of Hindi books covering a broad range of subjects including literature. The access to the collection has been computerized and the catalogue can be accessed through any computer in the centre. The CSDS library is a member of the Developing Libraries Network and the Social Science Libraries Network.\n\nThe CSDS Data Unit, established in 1965, maintains an archive of survey data on political behaviour and attitudes, spanning over four decades. The unit also holds a number of secondary data sets, especially on elections in India.\n\nProgrammes in the Centre include:\n\n"}
{"id": "40361251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40361251", "title": "Conspiracy theories in the Arab world", "text": "Conspiracy theories in the Arab world\n\nConspiracy theories are a prevalent feature of Arab culture and politics. Prof. Matthew Gray writes they \"are a common and popular phenomenon.\" \"Conspiracism is an important phenomenon in understanding Arab Middle Eastern politics ...\" Variants include conspiracies involving colonialism, Zionism, superpowers, oil, and the war on terrorism, which may be referred to as a War against Islam. Roger Cohen theorizes that the popularity of conspiracy theories in the Arab world is \"the ultimate refuge of the powerless\", and Al-Mumin Said noted the danger of such theories in that they \"keep us not only from the truth but also from confronting our faults and problems...\"\n\nGray points out that actual conspiracies such as the British-French-Israeli 1956 Suez Crisis encourage speculation and creation of imagined conspiracies. After the 1967 war, conspiracy theories became popular. The war was perceived as a conspiracy by Israel and the US—or its opposite: a Soviet plot to bring Egypt into the Soviet sphere of influence. Thomas Friedman notes the numerous conspiracy theories concerning the Lebanese civil war. They \"were usually the most implausible, wild-eyed conspiracy theories one could imagine ... Israelis, the Syrians, the Americans, the Soviets, or Henry Kissinger—anyone but the Lebanese—in the most elaborate plots to disrupt Lebanon's naturally tranquil state.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League lists Zionist conspiracies including spreading poisons (Jan 1995, \"Al-Ahram\"), spreading AIDS (\"Al-Shaab\"), blood rituals (June 1995, \"Al-Ahram\"), leading an international conspiracy against Islam (March 1995, \"Al-Ahram\"), and creating the myth of the Holocaust (Dec 1995 – Feb 1996, \"Egyptian Gazette\").\n\nConspiracy theories holds the Jews responsible for killing American Presidents Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy, and causing the French and Russian revolutions. Zionists are seen as a threat to the world. A widespread conspiracy theory after the September 11 attacks blamed Israel and Mossad for the attacks.\n\n\"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", an infamous hoax document purporting to be a Jewish plan for world domination, is commonly read and promoted in the Muslim world.\n\nConspiracy theorists in the Arab world have claimed that ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is in fact an Israeli Mossad agent and actor called Simon Elliot. The rumors claim that NSA documents leaked by Edward Snowden reveal this connection. Snowden's lawyer has called the story \"a hoax.\"\n\nAnimal-related conspiracy theories involving Israel are prominent, alleging use of animals by Israel to attack civilians or to conduct espionage. These conspiracies are often reported as evidence of a Zionist or Israeli plot. Examples include the December 2010 shark attacks in Egypt and the 2011 capture in Saudi Arabia of a griffon vulture carrying an Israeli-labeled satellite tracking device.\n\nWriting in \"The Times\", James Hider linked the responses to the shark incident with those to the vulture incident and ascribed the reactions in Arab countries to \"paranoia among Israel's enemies and its nominal friends\", adding that \"evidence of Mossad using animals is scant.\"\n\nGil Yaron wrote in \"The Toronto Star\" that \"Many animals undoubtedly serve in Israel’s army and security services: dogs sniff out bombs and alpaca help mountaineers carry their loads. [...] But tales about the use of sharks, birds, rodents or, as has also been claimed, insects in the service of the military are more the fruit of imagination than hard fact.\"\n\nFollowing Egypt's 2012 presidential election, an Egyptian television station stated that the United States government and Egypt's ruling military council had rigged the election in favor of the Muslim Brotherhood candidate Mohammed Morsi. The theory was seen as fueling a 15 July 2012 attack of tomatoes and shoes by Egyptian Copt protestors on the motorcade of the visiting US Secretary of State. The widespread view that America was conspiring to support Morsi prompted President Barack Obama to note that conspiracy theories abound both alleging US support for and against Morsi. The rise of the Islamic State gave rise to conspiracy theories that it had been created by the US, CIA, Mossad, or Hillary Clinton. The same happened after the rise of Boko Haram.\n\nConspiracy theorists in the Arab world have advanced rumors that the US is secretly behind the existence and emboldening of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, as part of an attempt to further destabilize the Middle East. After such rumors became widespread, the US embassy in Lebanon issued an official statement denying the allegations, calling them a complete fabrication.\n\n\"War against Islam\", also called the \"War on Islam\" or \"Attack on Islam\", is a conspiracy theory narrative in Islamist discourse to describe an alleged conspiracy to harm, weaken or annihilate the societal system of Islam, using military, economic, social and cultural means. The perpetrators of the conspiracy are alleged to be non-Muslims, particularly the Western world and \"false Muslims\", allegedly in collusion with political actors in the Western world. While the contemporary conspiracy theory narrative of the \"War against Islam\" mostly covers general issues of societal transformations in modernization and secularization as well as general issues of international power politics among modern states, the Crusades are often narrated as its alleged starting point.\n\nAfter the fall of Morsi, xenophobic conspiracy theories have singled out Palestinians and Syrian refugees as part of a plot to bring the Muslim Brotherhood back to power. Pro-Morsi supporters single out Saudis and Emiratis as part of a counter conspiracy.\n\nA common conspiracy theory is about soft drink brands Coca-Cola and Pepsi, that the drinks deliberately contain pork and alcohol and their names carry pro-Israel and anti-Islamic messages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29451267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29451267", "title": "Copilco", "text": "Copilco\n\nCopilco was an important Mesoamerican ceremonial center, southwest of Mexico City, Mexico. Copilco is located approximately four kilometers north of Cuicuilco. Both were covered by lava from several eruptions of the Xitle volcano three thousand years ago.\n\nIt is very likely that founding, development and destiny of both cities had common causes, from their geographical location, and chronology.\n\nThe area is located on the west side of Coyoacán or Coyohuacán (Nahuatl: coyō-hua-cān, 'place of coyotes') in the area covered by the lava from the Xitle volcano (according to Chronicles, one eruption of the volcano occurred on April 24, 76).\n\nThere are several theories regarding its founding; some historical records may establish Copilco's founding in the year 100 BCE. Another version places it at 500 BCE.\n\nCopilco was one of the first and most important ceremonial centers in the Valley of Mexico. In the mid-Preclassical (800 BC), several villages developed in this place and slowly evolved and grew, becoming cities and eventually major civic-ceremonial urban centers in the late-preclassical period (ca. 100 CE.). As urban centers, these were very important, with an advanced and hierarchized society. Copilco's decline began early in the 1st century BCE, with the increasing rise of Teotihuacán as an important cultural and religious center. By 400 CE, the Xitle volcano near the Ajusc erupted, burying and destroying what still remained of Cuicuilco and Copilco as important ceremonial centers. Lava spread in an area of 13 by 15 kilometers of what is today known as “Pedregal de San Ángel”. This disaster dispersed the population to Toluca and Teotihuacan.\n\nCopilco was an altépetl and ceremonial center located on the shores of the Texcoco Lake. It had an incipient agriculture with an economy based on maize, hunting and fishing and the inhabitants supplemented their diet with amphibians, insects and mammals from the nearby forest. This area was explored by Dr. Manuel Gamio in 1917 and a burial site was found covered by lava from the eruption. Gamio made three tunnels under the lava, finding a cultural sequence and bone remains from three individuals, containing offerings consisting of pottery, vessels, clay figurines, and Metates. Human remains are known as the “Hombre del Pedregal”. Several tunnels have been made, finding places with corpses occupying their original location, surrounded by funerary offerings items, such as ceramic ware.\n\nIt is very likely that there were several population eras, for all areas of the Valley of Mexico, which could be related to the different cultures that inhabited the area at different times, and the results of the different wars, conquests and alliances. It will be necessary for specialists and scholars to conclude their important research and build an up-to-date overview of the history of the Valley of Mexico. There is evidence of occupation of this area since the Preclassical period.\n\nIn the specific case of Copilco, from what is known, it is estimated that at during the late prehispanic Mesoamerican chronology (1332), Copilco was tributary to Azcapotzalco, and therefore the Tepanec, who in turn were somehow descendants of the Chichimecs.\n\nThe Tepanecs formed a culture with political, social and military organization; settled in Azcapotzalco, they dominated minor villages establishing their culture in Coyoacan around 1332 CE. Their growth continued by their taking of other villages: Copilco, Quiahuac (\"Los Reyes\"), Xotepingo, Tepetlapan and Coapan.\n\nTepaneca can be translated as “the stone People”. This definition is supported by the fact that the Tepanec Glyph appears on several documents (Boturini Codex or “Tira de la peregrinación”, Azcatitlan and Xolotl Codexes), which, associated with the \"calli\" glyph, portray the idea of a “nation” or human group, appear one of the most normalized Nahuatl glyphs, the one meaning \"piedra\" (stone).\n\nName is a derivation of the real people name, from their original mythic city, Tepanohuayan \"the pasadero\", also called Tepano whose name is tepaneca (tl). Graphically it is represented by a stone, hence the etymology of Tepan is created \"on the stones\". Tepanec conquered territories were called “Tepanecapan” (“tepanecas land\", literally \"over the tepanecas\").\n\nAccording to chronicler Fernando de Alva Cortés Ixtlilxochitl (1568–1648), this was a Chichimec group, that settled in 1012 CE in the western region of the Texcoco Lake. Their lineage begins when their leader Acolhua marries Cuetlaxochitzin, daughter of Xólotl, another Chichimeca leader.\n\nDomingo Francisco de San Antón Muñón Chimalpahin Quauhtlehuanitzin (1579–1660) establishes this settlement before, at 995 CE. In fact archaeological investigations have revealed that Azcapotzalco was inhabited from the classical period (around 600 CE) and were related to the Teotihuacan’s in culture and language, as it is known the spoke otomíana language in the 14th century while the Nahuatl was lingua franca from 1272. Continuing with data provided by Chimalpain, he mentions that the tepanecas entered a triple alliance from 1047 (this alliance is different from that with the Mexicas, much later).\n\nThe Register establish that the last lineage begins with Matlacohuatl, who ruled from 1152 to 1222, married to Cuitlachtepetl. The second \"tlatoani\" was Chiconquiauhtzin, married to Xicomoyahual, daughter of Ohpantzin.\n\nHe was succeeded by Tezcapoctzin, who ruled from 1248 to 1283. In his time the mexitin appeared, who requested permission to found their second capital on the islet of Lake Texcoco; it was originally named Cuauhmixtitlan in 1274. With his rule Tepaneca military expansion began, establishing partnerships with the Acolhua in the Valley of Mexico, the mazahuaques in the Ixtlahuaca Valley and the matlatzincas in the Toluca Valley, while acquiring a great commercial power. In 1272 he accepted the substitution of Coatlinchan by Tetzcoco in the Triple Alliance of that time, thus consolidating the achievements of his predecessor.\n\nTheir language probably had Uto-Aztecan languages and Oto-Manguean languages roots.\n\nHowever, from the information recollection by Spaniards as of 1521, some sparse information is available about the languages spoken in different Tepanecas cities. Fray Bernardino de Sahagún includes Tepanecas among Nahuatl speaker groups although this claim seems rather a –synchronous, non-historical- attempt, of describing ethnical conditions in times near the Spaniard presence, it is known that the consolidation of major political units of the Central Highlands, also entailed the Nahuatl acceptance as a common pipiltin language of the different altépetl.\n\nThe Chichimec (Dog lineage or Arc warriors), was a culture which controlled priests, by putting pressure on social nobility which was almost always military and oppressive. These were nomadic groups nourished from hunting, then learned to eat cooked meat and maize; cultivated beans, corn, pumpkin, nopales, oilseeds, among other things. They believed in various gods as Quetzalcoatl, Tezcatlipoca, Mimixcotal and Mixcoatl. They thought that the stars were warriors killed in battles, honoring the Sun.\n\nThey continued the Toltec art as can be seen in the Tenayuca pyramid. As well as their sculpture as for example the \"Espejo de la Cruz\", the mantle braided with fur and various ceramic figures. Left the great Tenayuca pyramid as cultural contribution. The chichimeca disappeared since the Tepanec defeated and the only leader left was Netzahualcoyotl who fled with the tlaxcaltecas.\n\nManuel Gamio recounts the following: \"... in the month of August 1917...\" the staff proceeded to make a methodical recognition all quarries being exploited... realizing that where more items were available, was at Copilco, bordering “Colonia del Carmen in San Ángel \".\n\nFrom that place many archaeological vestiges and human remains were extracted. He noted:\n\nThe archaeological vestiges discovered in four tunnels that were excavated in Copilco can be categorized in three groups: 1° Sepulcher;\" 2 ° Pavements and stone rows; 3 ° Objects of mud and stone.\n\nThe tombs consist of cylindrical hollows excavated in tepetate...\n\nNot all skeletons were buried in cylindrical graves... also found bones inside a vase\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35343748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35343748", "title": "Cultural group selection", "text": "Cultural group selection\n\nCultural group selection is an explanatory model within cultural evolution of how cultural traits evolve according to the competitive advantage they bestow upon a group. This multidisciplinary approach to the question of human culture engages research from the fields of anthropology, behavioural economics, evolutionary biology, evolutionary game theory, sociology, and psychology.\n\nWhile cultural norms are often beneficial to the individuals who hold them, they need not be. Norms can spread by cultural group selection when they are practiced within successful groups, and norms are more likely to spread from groups that are successful. But, for cultural group selection to occur, there must exist, between groups, cultural differences that when transmitted across time affect the persistence or proliferation of the groups. Cultural norms that provide these advantages will, in turn, lead to the displacement, absorption or even extinction of other, less successful cultural groups. However, game theoretic models suggest that if individuals are able to migrate between groups (which is common in small-scale societies), differences between groups should be difficult to maintain. Research in psychology reveals that humans have a particular set of traits, which include imitation, conformity, and in-group bias, that are capable of supporting the maintenance of these group differences over extended periods of time.\n\nCultural group selection gives a compelling explanation for how large-scale complex societies have formed. While altruistic behaviour such as kin selection and reciprocity can explain the behaviour of small social groups common in many species, it is unable to explain the large complex societies of unrelated, anonymous individuals that we see in the human species. However, one of the major distinctions between humans and other species is our reliance on social learning in acquiring behaviours. These instincts allow for the acquisition and persistence of culture. Through cultural group selection, culturally specific cooperative behaviour can evolve to support large societies. For example, in a study that spanned a variety of cultures, testing behaviour in Ultimatum, Dictator, and Third-party punishment games, it was found that standards of fairness and inclination to punish were correlated with both participation in world religions and market integration. This indicates how many of the behaviours necessary for complex societies are the result of cultural exposure rather than any evolution of our psychology.\n\nFor cultural knowledge and behaviour to persist across multiple generations, humans need to have the capacity to acquire, retain, and transmit cultural information. While many species engage in social learning, humans consistently rely upon it for behavioural cues and information about the environment. In a study comparing human children and young chimpanzees, it was shown that, when given a demonstration on how to retrieve a reward from a box, chimps copy relevant behaviour, while ignoring irrelevant behaviour, to solve the task. Meanwhile, human children will faithfully imitate both relevant and irrelevant behaviour to solve the same task. While this may seem like a negative quality, it is what allows for reliable, high-fidelity transmission of cultural information, and produces stable behavioural equilibria within cultural groups.\n\nMichael Tomasello suggests the following three adaptations are necessary for human culture:\n\nAt around 9–12 months infants begin engaging in joint attention. This involves following the gaze of an adult or using them as social reference points. Put simply, they become aware of the adult's attention and behaviour towards objects in the environment. In this sense, the child is beginning to understand people as goal-oriented intentional agents. This is vitally important for learning through imitation and, eventually, language acquisition.\n\nBy about 1 year of age, children begin to learn by imitation. At this point, children are capable of discriminating intentional actions from unintentional ones, and will attempt to accurately copy those intentional actions to accomplish tasks they've seen adults do. Because of imitative learning, children will copy those intentional acts which have no perceivable effect on the outcome, as well as strange or unnatural actions when easier methods are available. For example, an Andrew Meltzoff study found that 14-month-old children will, after seeing an adult do it, bend at the waist and press a panel with their head to turn on a light, instead of using their hands. According to Tomasello, imitative learning is necessary for learning the symbolic conventions of language.\n\nThrough imitatively learning, the child comprehends that linguistic symbols are intended to focus attention to some specific aspect of the shared experience. In doing this, the child must be able to take the perspective of the speaker. Due to the intersubjectivity of linguistic symbols, language allows one to communicate various perspectives and shift attention to one aspect of the world over another. In learning a language, a child is inheriting a vast set of linguistic symbols that have been passed down many generations. What is inherited then is the methods of shifting attention and perspective that were historically of importance to the people of that culture.\n\nWithout between-group variation, cultural group selection could not occur, as there would be no group differentiation to select for. While processes such as cultural drift, epidemics, and natural disasters increase between-group variation, migration and genetic mixing decrease between-group variation \"and\" increase within-group variation. Variation is only maintained when cultural groups have mechanisms that prevent the norms of outside groups from invading the cultural group. These ‘mechanisms’ are those uniquely human psychological traits and behaviours that encourage imitation, conformity, and in-group biases.\n\nAccording to Joseph Henrich, between-group variation is maintained by the following four mechanisms:\n\nConformist transmission refers to the psychological bias to preferentially imitate high frequency behaviors in the cultural group. This homogenizes the social group and reinforces widely held cultural norms. This explains why individuals within a social group hold the same beliefs and why these beliefs persist over time. While individuals will rely on copying high frequency behaviors under various conditions, this reliance increases when an individual is exposed to ambiguous environmental or social information. Conformist transmission can maintain between-group variation by reducing within-group variation, but it also facilitates the rapid spread of novel ideas, which increases between-group variation. Taken together, reduced within-group variation and increased between-group variation lead to the cultural divergence between groups that is the driving force of cultural group selection.\n\nPrestige-biased transmission is the tendency the copy those members of the group that are more successful. Preferentially copying successful members of the group allows individuals to avoid costly trial-and-error learning by imitating the better-than-average skills of the more prestigious cultural models. Individual can determine the rank of potential models by how much deference they are shown by the rest of the group. Deference is shown to high-prestige individuals to gain the opportunity to copy their successful models. We can see evidence for this bias in how new technologies, or economic practices spread to different groups according to how quick \"opinion leaders\" adopt them.\n\nMeanwhile, self-similarity transmission is the tendency to copy those individuals who are similar in language, appearance, social standing and other behavioral and cultural traits. In the context of prestige-biased transmission, self-similarity means that individuals will preferentially imitate those high-prestige individuals who are similar to them. From the perspective of an imitator, this trait is adaptive. By only imitating those high-prestige individuals who are similar, the imitator avoids adopting traits or behaviors that are not compatible with his or her knowledge or social environment.\n\nThese two social biases act together in reducing within-group variation. Additionally, prestige-biased transmission increases between-group variation by contributing to the spread of novel ideas.\n\nNon-conformists threaten to increase within-group variation by introducing deviant behaviours to the group and must receive costly punishment to maintain a homogenous social group. As a consequence of being punished, non-conformists will be less successful than other members of the group. Prestige-biased transmission would suggest that non-conformist behaviors would, therefore, not spread through the population. Papers on the topic suggest that this kind of punishment is prevalent across many different societies.\n\nNormative conformity is the act of changing one’s visible behaviour, simply to appear to match the majority, and without actually internalizing the groups opinions. This differs from conformist transmission since normative conformity does not consider frequency of a behaviour as an indicator of worth. The Asch conformity experiments are a perfect example of how robust this effect is and its replication across many cultures shows that this behaviour is very common. Henrich suggests that normative conformity may have evolved to respond to the spread of punishing behaviour toward non-conformists. By appearing similar to the group, one can gain the advantages of in-group membership, while also avoiding punishment. A curious byproduct of normative conformity is that it can contribute to the conformity transmission of norms that the transmitter does not hold, because they were mistakenly attributed by the imitator.\n\nAs Donald T. Campbell says, for cultural group selection to occur, there must be cultural differences between groups which affect their persistence or proliferation. This means groups are selected \"for\" or \"against\" according to their respective \"gains\" or \"losses\" relative to other groups.\n\nJoseph Henrich describes the three mechanisms through which this process occurs:\n\nDemographic swamping occurs when one or more cultural groups reproduces individuals faster than other groups in the region because of stable, culturally transmitted ideas or practices. This is the slowest kind of cultural groups selection as it depends on natural selection of between-group cultural variation operating on a scale of millennia. It has been suggested that this is how early agriculturalist displaced hunter-gatherer societies.\n\nDirect intergroup competition is the process by which cultural groups compete with each other over resources by engaging in warfare and raiding. The cultural practices and behaviour that gives an advantage to one group over another will proliferate at the expense of those who cannot compete. There are many possible traits that could contribute to a group's success, such as technological development, social and political organization, economic development, nationalism, etc. According to Joseph Soltis, it would take 500–1000 years for group selection to happen this way.\n\nIn prestige-biased group selection, when individuals have opportunities to copy people from nearby groups, they will preferentially imitate the members of groups that are more cooperative than their own. Since cooperative groups have a higher average payoff than non-cooperative groups, members of cooperative groups will be considered more prestigious and worthy of imitation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8805", "title": "Distributism", "text": "Distributism\n\nDistributism is an economic ideology asserting that the world's productive assets should be widely owned rather than concentrated. It was developed in Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries based upon the principles of Catholic social teaching, especially the teachings of Pope Leo XIII in his encyclical \"Rerum novarum\" (1891) and Pope Pius XI in \"Quadragesimo anno\" (1931). It views both capitalism and socialism as equally flawed and exploitative, and it favors economic mechanisms such as small-scale cooperatives and family businesses, and large-scale anti-trust regulations.\n\nSome Christian Democratic political parties have advocated distributism in their economic policies.\n\nAccording to distributists, property ownership is a fundamental right, and the means of production should be spread as widely as possible, rather than being centralized under the control of the state (state capitalism/state socialism), a few individuals (plutocracy), or corporations (corporatocracy). Distributism, therefore, advocates a society marked by widespread property ownership. Co-operative economist Race Mathews argues that such a system is key to bringing about a just social order.\n\nDistributism has often been described in opposition to both socialism and capitalism, which distributists see as equally flawed and exploitative. Further, some distributists argue that socialism is the logical conclusion of capitalism, as capitalism's concentrated powers eventually capture the state, resulting in a form of socialism. Thomas Storck argues: \"Both socialism and capitalism are products of the European Enlightenment and are thus modernizing and anti-traditional forces. In contrast, distributism seeks to subordinate economic activity to human life as a whole, to our spiritual life, our intellectual life, our family life.\" A few distributists were influenced by the economic ideas of Proudhon and his mutualist economic theory, thus the lesser-known anarchist branch of distributism of Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker Movement could be considered a form of free-market libertarian socialism due to their opposition to both state capitalism and state socialism.\n\nSome have seen it more as an aspiration, which has been successfully realised in the short term by commitment to the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity (these being built into financially independent local cooperatives and small family businesses), though proponents also cite such periods as the Middle Ages as examples of the historical long-term viability of distributism. Particularly influential in the development of distributist theory were Catholic authors G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc, the \"Chesterbelloc\", two of distributism's earliest and strongest proponents.\n\nThe mid-to-late 19th century witnessed an increase in popularity of political Catholicism across Europe. According to historian Michael A. Riff, a common feature of these movements was opposition not only to secularism, but also to both capitalism and socialism. In 1891 Pope Leo XIII promulgated \"Rerum novarum\", in which he addressed the \"misery and wretchedness pressing so unjustly on the majority of the working class\" and spoke of how \"a small number of very rich men\" had been able to \"lay upon the teeming masses of the laboring poor a yoke little better than that of slavery itself\". Affirmed in the encyclical was the right of all men to own property, the necessity of a system that allowed \"as many as possible of the people to become owners\", the duty of employers to provide safe working conditions and sufficient wages, and the right of workers to unionise. Common and government property ownership was expressly dismissed as a means of helping the poor.\n\nAround the start of the 20th century, G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc drew together the disparate experiences of the various cooperatives and friendly societies in Northern England, Ireland, and Northern Europe into a coherent political ideology which specifically advocated widespread private ownership of housing and control of industry through owner-operated small businesses and worker-controlled cooperatives. In the United States in the 1930s, distributism was treated in numerous essays by Chesterton, Belloc and others in \"The American Review\", published and edited by Seward Collins. Pivotal among Belloc's and Chesterton's other works regarding distributism are \"The Servile State\", and \"Outline of Sanity\".\n\nAlthough a majority of distributism's later supporters were not Catholics and many were in fact former radical socialists who had become disillusioned with socialism, distributist thought was adopted by the Catholic Worker Movement, conjoining it with the thought of Dorothy Day and Peter Maurin concerning localized and independent communities. It also influenced the thought behind the Antigonish Movement, which implemented cooperatives and other measures to aid the poor in the Canadian Maritimes. Its practical implementation in the form of local cooperatives has been documented by Race Mathews in his 1999 book \"Jobs of Our Own: Building a Stakeholder Society\".\n\nThe position of distributists when compared to other political philosophies is somewhat paradoxical and complicated (see Triangulation). Strongly entrenched in an organic but very English Catholicism, advocating culturally traditionalist and agrarian values, directly challenging the precepts of Whig history—Belloc was nonetheless an MP for the Liberal Party and Chesterton once stated \"As much as I ever did, more than I ever did, I believe in Liberalism. But there was a rosy time of innocence when I believed in Liberals.\" This liberalism is different from most modern forms, taking influence from William Cobbett and John Ruskin, who combined elements of radicalism, challenging the establishment position, but from a perspective of renovation, not revolution; seeing themselves as trying to restore the traditional liberties of England and her people which had been taken away from them, amongst other things, since the Industrial Revolution.\n\nWhile converging with certain elements of traditional Toryism, especially an appreciation of the Middle Ages and organic society, there were several points of significant contention. While many Tories were strongly opposed to reform, the distributists in certain cases saw this not as conserving a legitimate traditional concept of England, but in many cases, entrenching harmful errors and innovations. Belloc was quite explicit in his opposition to Protestantism as a concept and schism from the Catholic Church in general, considering the division of Christendom in the 16th century one of the most harmful events in European history. Elements of Toryism on the other hand were quite intransigent when it came to the Church of England as the established church, some even spurning their original legitimist ultra-royalist principles in regards to James II to uphold it.\n\nMuch of Dorothy L. Sayers' writings on social and economic matters has affinity with distributism. She may have been influenced by them, or have come to similar conclusions on her own; as an Anglican, the reasonings she gave are rooted in the theologies of Creation and Incarnation, and thus are slightly different from the Catholic Chesterton and Belloc.\n\nUnder such a system, most people would be able to earn a living without having to rely on the use of the property of others to do so. Examples of people earning a living in this way would be farmers who own their own land and related machinery, carpenters and plumbers who own their own tools, etc. The \"cooperative\" approach advances beyond this perspective to recognise that such property and equipment may be \"co-owned\" by local communities larger than a family, e.g., partners in a business.\n\nIn \"Rerum novarum\", Leo XIII states that people are likely to work harder and with greater commitment if they themselves possess the land on which they labour, which in turn will benefit them and their families, as workers will be able to provide for themselves and their household. He puts forward the idea that when men have the opportunity to possess property and work on it, they will “learn to love the very soil which yields in response to the labor of their hands, not only food to eat, but an abundance of the good things for themselves and those that are dear to them”. He states also that owning property is not only beneficial for a person and their family, but is in fact a right, due to God having “...given the earth for the use and enjoyment of the whole human race”.\n\nSimilar views are presented by G. K. Chesterton in his 1910 book \"What’s Wrong with the World\". Chesterton believes that whilst God has limitless capabilities, man has limited abilities in terms of creation. As such, man therefore is entitled to own property and to treat it as he sees fit. He states “Property is merely the art of the democracy. It means that every man should have something that he can shape in his own image, as he is shaped in the image of heaven. But because he is not God, but only a graven image of God, his self-expression must deal with limits; properly with limits that are strict and even small.” Chesterton summed up his distributist views in the phrase \"Three acres and a cow\".\n\nAccording to Belloc, the distributive state (the state which has implemented distributism) contains \"an agglomeration of families of varying wealth, but by far the greater number of owners of the means of production\". This broader distribution does not extend to all property, but only to productive property; that is, that property which produces wealth, namely, the things needed for man to survive. It includes land, tools, and so on. Distributism allows for society to have public goods such as parks and transit systems.\n\nThe kind of economic order envisaged by the early distributist thinkers would involve the return to some sort of guild system. The present existence of labor unions does not constitute a realization of this facet of distributist economic order, as labour unions are organized along class lines to promote class interests and frequently class struggle, whereas guilds are mixed class syndicates composed of both employers and employees cooperating for mutual benefit, thereby promoting class collaboration.\n\nDistributism favors the dissolution of the current private bank system, or more specifically its profit-making basis in charging interest. Dorothy Day, for example, suggested abolishing legal enforcement of interest-rate contracts (usury). It would not entail nationalization but could involve government involvement of some sort. Distributists look favorably on credit unions as a preferable alternative to banks.\n\nDistributism appears to have one of its greatest influences in anti-trust legislation in America and Europe designed to break up monopolies and excessive concentration of market power in one or only a few companies, trusts, interests, or cartels. Embodying the philosophy explained by Chesterton, above, that too much capitalism means too few capitalists, not too many, America's extensive system of anti-trust legislation seeks to prevent the concentration of market power in a given industry into too few hands. Requiring that no company gain too great a share of any market is an example of how distributism has found its way into government policy. The assumption behind this legislation is the idea that having economic activity decentralized among many different industry participants is better for the economy than having one or a few large players in an industry. (Note that anti-trust regulation does take into account cases when only large companies are viable because of the nature of an industry, as in the case of natural monopolies like electricity distribution. It also accepts that mergers and acquisitions may improve consumer welfare; however, it generally prefers more economic agents to fewer, as this generally improves competition.)\n\nSocial credit is an interdisciplinary distributive philosophy developed by C. H. Douglas (1879–1952), a British engineer, who wrote a book by that name in 1924. It encompasses the fields of economics, political science, history, accounting, and physics. Its policies are designed, according to Douglas, to disperse economic and political power to individuals.\n\nDistributism sees the family of two parents and their child or children as the central and primary social unit of human ordering and the principal unit of a functioning distributist society and civilization. This unit is also the basis of a multi-generational extended family, which is embedded in socially as well as genetically inter-related communities, nations, etc., and ultimately in the whole human family past, present and future. The economic system of a society should therefore be focused primarily on the flourishing of the family unit, but not in isolation: at the appropriate level of family context, as is intended in the principle of subsidiarity. Distributism reflects this doctrine most evidently by promoting the family, rather than the individual, as the basic type of owner; that is, distributism seeks to ensure that most families, rather than most individuals, will be owners of productive property. The family is, then, vitally important to the very core of distributist thought.\n\nDistributism puts great emphasis on the principle of subsidiarity. This principle holds that no larger unit (whether social, economic, or political) should perform a function which can be performed by a smaller unit. Pope Pius XI, in \"Quadragesimo anno\", provided the classical statement of the principle: \"Just as it is gravely wrong to take from individuals what they can accomplish by their own initiative and industry and give it to the community, so also it is an injustice and at the same time a grave evil and disturbance of right order to assign to a greater and higher association what lesser and subordinate organizations can do.\" Thus, any activity of production (which distributism holds to be the most important part of any economy) ought to be performed by the smallest possible unit. This helps support distributism's argument that smaller units, families if possible, ought to be in control of the means of production, rather than the large units typical of modern economies.\n\nPope Pius XI further stated, again in \"Quadragesimo anno\", \"every social activity ought of its very nature to furnish help to the members of the body social, and never destroy and absorb them\". To prevent large private organizations from thus dominating the body politic, distributism applies this principle of subsidiarity to economic as well as to social and political action.\n\nDistributism favors the elimination of social security on the basis that it further alienates man by making him more dependent on the Servile State. Distributists such as Dorothy Day did not favor social security when it was introduced by the United States government. This rejection of this new program was due to the direct influence of the ideas of Hilaire Belloc over American Distributists.\n\nDistributism promotes a society of artisans and culture. This is influenced by an emphasis on small business, promotion of local culture, and favoring of small production over capitalistic mass production. A society of artisans promotes the distributist ideal of the unification of capital, ownership, and production rather than what distributism sees as an alienation of man from work.\n\nThis does not, however, suggest that distributism necessarily favors a technological regression to a pre-Industrial Revolution lifestyle, but a more local ownership of factories and other industrial centers. Products such as food and clothing would be preferably returned to local producers and artisans instead of being mass-produced overseas.\n\nDistributism does not favor one political order over another (political accidentalism). While some distributists, such as Dorothy Day, have been anarchists, it should be remembered that most Chestertonian distributists are opposed to the mere concept of anarchism. Chesterton thought that Distributism would benefit from the discipline that theoretical analysis imposes, and that distributism is best seen as a widely encompassing concept inside of which any number of interpretations and perspectives can fit. This concept should fit in a political system broadly characterized by widespread ownership of productive property.\n\nThe Brazilian political party, Humanist Party of Solidarity is a distributist party, and distributism has influenced Christian Democratic parties in Continental Europe and the Democratic Labor Party in Australia. Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam view their \"Grand New Party\", a roadmap for revising the Republican Party in the United States, as \"a book written in the distributist tradition\".\n\nDistributists usually use Just War Theory in determining whether a war should be fought or not. Historical positions of distributist thinkers provide insight into a distributist position on war. Both Belloc and Chesterton opposed British imperialism in general, as well as specifically opposing the Second Boer War, but supported British involvement in World War I.\n\nOn the other hand, prominent distributists such as Dorothy Day and those involved in the Catholic Worker Movement were/are strict pacifists, even to the point of condemning involvement in World War II at much personal cost.\n\nDistributism is known to have had an influence on the economist E. F. Schumacher, a convert to Catholicism.\n\nThe Mondragon Corporation, based in the Basque Country in a region of Spain and France, was founded by a Catholic priest, Father José María Arizmendiarrieta, who seems to have been influenced by the same Catholic social and economic teachings that inspired Belloc, Chesterton, Father Vincent McNabb, and the other founders of distributism.\n\nDistributist ideas were put into practice by The Guild of St Joseph and St Dominic, a group of artists and craftsmen who established a community in Ditchling, Sussex, England, in 1920, with the motto \"Men rich in virtue studying beautifulness living in peace in their houses\". The Guild sought to recreate an idealised medieval lifestyle in the manner of the Arts and Crafts Movement; it survived almost 70 years, until 1989.\n\nThe Big Society was the flagship policy idea of the 2010 UK Conservative Party general election manifesto. Some distributists claim that the rhetorical marketing of this policy was influenced by aphorisms of the distributist ideology and promotes distributism. It purportedly formed a part of the legislative programme of the Conservative – Liberal Democrat Coalition Agreement. The stated aim was \"to create a climate that empowers local people and communities, building a big society that will 'take power away from politicians and give it to people.'\" The idea of the Big Society was suggested by Steve Hilton, who worked as director of strategy for David Cameron during the Coalition government before moving on to live and work in California.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7861415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7861415", "title": "Election surprise", "text": "Election surprise\n\nAn election surprise (also a pre-election surprise, or, in the U.S., October surprise, where elections are held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November) is an event which occurs preceding an election which has enough shock value that it may be able to sway voters in close elections. When planned, an election surprise may be an act of propaganda. Election surprises typically fall into categories such as terrorism, political scandals, etc.\n\nThere may be disagreement as to what constitutes an election surprise for several reasons:\n\nRumours of potential election surprises may also abound preceding an election.\n\n\"The term \"election surprise\" may also be used to denote an election with a surprising outcome.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38703024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38703024", "title": "Encyclopedia of Hinduism", "text": "Encyclopedia of Hinduism\n\nEncyclopedia of Hinduism, 1st ed., 2012, is a comprehensive, multi-volume, English language encyclopedia of Hinduism, comprising \"\", a Sanskrit phrase, meaning \"the eternal law\", or the \"eternal way\", that is used to refer to Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism. It is a 7,184 page, 11-volume publication with full-color illustrations of temples, places, thinkers, rituals and festivals. \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" is an inspiration and dream project of Swami Chidanand Saraswati, President of Parmarth Niketan and India Heritage Research Foundation. Under preparation for 25 years, it has been edited by Dr. Kapil Kapoor with contribution from over 2000 scholars.\n\nThe encyclopaedia provides conceptual perspective and a general understanding of the different facets of Hinduism. It does not confine itself to religion alone, and has in it entries on art, history, language, literature, philosophy, polity, sciences, and women's studies. The editorial introduction records:\n\nOn 3–4 April 2010, a preview and blessings ceremony for the \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" was held at Parmarth Niketan, attended by the Dalai Lama, M.M. Swami Gurusharananand, Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Sant Shri Rameshbhai Oza, Swami Ramdev, Sant Shri Morari Bapu and other religious leaders as well as top political leaders, including Shri L.K. Advani and then-Chief Minister of Uttarakhand Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, and IHRF board members and trustees.\n\nThe International Edition of the \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" was launched at the University of South Carolina on 26 September 2013.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" was presented to the President of India Shri Pranab Mukherjee on 23 June 2014.\n\nThe idea was conceived by Swami Chidanand Saraswati, president of Parmarth Niketan Ashram, at a Hindu-Jain Temple in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1987. Subsequently, in November of the same year, the India Heritage Research Foundation was formed to execute the idea of preparing an authoritative, comprehensive and up-to-date \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\". Dr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor Emeritus in Religious Studies at University of Virginia was appointed the Chief Editor.\n\nOver the next five years, Swami Chidanand Saraswati and Dr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao assembled an international team of scholars. In 1998, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Prime Minister of India at the time, spoke effusively in praise of the project:\n\nIn early 2006, Dr. Kapil Kapoor, Professor of English and Concurrent Professor of Sanskrit Studies who had retired as rector for Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi the previous year, was appointed chief editor of the project.\n\nThe first volume of the encyclopedia contains a 44-page foreword by Dr. Karan Singh. In the opening paragraph, he writes:\n\nThe closing comments of Dr. Singh's forward begin with the following note:\n\nIndrajit Hazra, writing for \"Hindustan Times\", said its \"entries are crisp, provide background and foreground, and come with a bibliography.\" The review goes on to add:\n\nHazra concludes his review by calling the encyclopedia \"a startlingly good treasure trunk for anyone interested in the history of ideas to dip into.\" Former Home Minister of India L.K. Advani called the work \"a landmark publication.\"\n"}
{"id": "8081066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8081066", "title": "Fundamental plane (spherical coordinates)", "text": "Fundamental plane (spherical coordinates)\n\nThe fundamental plane in a spherical coordinate system is a plane of reference that divides the sphere into two hemispheres. The latitude of a point is then the angle between the fundamental plane and the line joining the point to the centre of the sphere.\n\nFor a geographic coordinate system of the Earth, the fundamental plane is the Equator. Celestial coordinate systems have varying fundamental planes:\n\n"}
{"id": "6820801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6820801", "title": "Gastronomicon", "text": "Gastronomicon\n\nGastronomicon is a short story and recipe collection published by the Canberra Speculative Fiction Guild. Printed in 2005 and edited by Stuart Barrow, it contains stories and recipes from several Australian speculative fiction authors.\nIt is also the title of a short story by Joanne Harris, published in March 2005 in her collection \"Jigs & Reels.\"\n\nThe collection contains the following stories:\n\nThe collection contains the following recipes:\n\nThe stories are illustrated by Brian Smith, Mik Bennett, Tony Flowers, and Ian McHugh. The cover art is by Les Petersen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46206844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46206844", "title": "Gender roles in non-heterosexual communities", "text": "Gender roles in non-heterosexual communities\n\nGender roles in non-heterosexual communities are a topic of much debate; some people believe traditional, heterosexual gender roles are often erroneously enforced on non-heterosexual relationships by means of heteronormative culture and attitudes towards these non-conformative relationships.\n\n Gender roles in non-heterosexual communities have been the subject of debate in Western society. Peter M. Nardi of Pitzer College says: \nThe connection between sexual orientation and gender roles has been confused by many people. Too often, assumptions about homosexuality or heterosexuality have led to assumptions about masculinity or femininity ... Understanding the differences between sexual identity and gender roles is enhanced when focusing on the issues of friendship and sex among gay men. For many people, being gay has been interpreted in terms of not being masculine or, more specifically, being seen as feminine.\n\nAccording to human rights campaigner Peter Tatchell:\nQueers subvert the gender system. Gay men love males and are not adequately macho and aggressive. Lesbians love women and are insufficiently passive and dependent on men. That's why we're persecuted. Our nonconformity threatens the system which sustains the social hegemony of male heterosexuality and misogyny.\n\nThis has been described as \"gender fuck politics\".\n\nHavelock Ellis and Sigmund Freud thought homosexuality resulted from reversed gender roles. Most modern scientists accept there is no strong evidence that a homosexual or bisexual orientation must be associated with atypical gender roles. Many factors have been linked to homosexuality, including genetic factors, anatomical factors, birth order, and hormones in the prenatal environment.\n\nTerms such as \"butch\", are used within the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT), and cross-dressing subcultures to ascribe or acknowledge a masculine identity with its associated traits, behaviours, styles, and self-perception.\n\nAlthough many bisexual and pansexual people may consider themselves \"gender blind\", writers on bisexual issues often disagree with the idea that bisexuals make a conscious decision to disregard socially-constructed gender roles.\n\nThe application of the traditional \"man\" and traditional \"woman\" in lesbian relationships is common, as with gay male relationships. Most often in lesbian relationships, there will come a point when someone asks the question: \"So which one's the guy?\", even if no males are involved in the relationship. This is believed to stem from heteronormative and patriarchal setups of traditional heterosexual relationships.\n\nDr. Joseph Pleck says the hierarchy of masculinities among men exist largely in a dichotomy of homosexual and heterosexual males, and says, \"our society uses the male heterosexual-homosexual dichotomy as a central symbol for all the rankings of masculinity, for the division on any grounds between males who are 'real men' and have power, and males who are not\". Michael Kimmel furthers this notion; he says the trope 'you're so gay' indicates that one is devoid of masculinity, rather than being sexually attracted to members of the same sex. Pleck says that to avoid the continuation of male oppression of women and themselves and other men, patriarchal structures, institutions, and discourse must be eliminated from North American society.\n\nGay men are considered by some to \"deviate from the masculine norm\", and are benevolently stereotyped as \"gentle and refined\" (even among other gay men), and pertain a specific mode of masculinity for themselves, according to human rights activists such as Peter Tatchell, which each make their contributions to society.\n\nIn a documentary called \"The Butch Factor\", a number of gay men—one of them transgender—were asked about their views on masculinity. The consensus was that showing masculine traits was an advantage, both in and out the closet. For the \"butch\" gay men, this allowed them to conceal their sexual orientation for longer when doing masculine activities such as playing sports, as effeminacy is often incorrectly associated with homosexuality— so much so that they doubted their own sexual orientation; because they did not see themselves as effeminate, they did not feel they were gay. Because of this, they did not feel as much of a connection with gay culture. Men who had a more feminine appearance were the first to come out of the closet; they were the first to be labelled gay by their peers. They were more likely to face bullying and harassment throughout their lives; many gay men have been taunted using derogatory words that imply feminine qualities, for example, \"sissy\". Effeminate or \"camp\"-acting gay men sometimes use what John R. Ballew describes as \"camp humour\", such as referring to one another using female pronouns as \"a funny way of defusing hate directed toward [gay men]\". Ballew has also said this \"can cause [gay men] to become confused in relation to how we feel about being men\".\n\nSome feminine gay men in the documentary felt uncomfortable about their femininity, even if they were comfortable with their sexuality. Feminine gay men are often looked down upon by stereotypically masculine men in the gay community.\n\nA study conducted by researchers from the Center for Theoretical Study at Charles University in Prague and The Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic found there are significant differences in the shape of faces of heterosexual and gay men; gay men have masculine features, which they say \"undermined stereotypical notions of gay men as more feminine looking\".\n\nFollowing a period of non-recognition from the media, gay men have been presented in the media in a stereotypical feminine way, which is open to ridicule (as well as lesbians and transvestites). Films such as \"Brokeback Mountain\" challenge this stereotype, though there is disagreement over the definition of the lead characters' sexuality. A newer portrayal of gay men in the LGBT community is as \"bears\"—a sub-culture of gay men who celebrate rugged masculinity and \"secondary sexual characteristics of the male: facial hair, body hair, proportional size, baldness\". Smyth (2004) identified four classic stereotypes of gay men as effeminate, mentally ill, predatory or libido-driven maniacs; these stereotypes arrived in popular discourse during different time periods. This is significant, as if an individual does not interact with LGBT people on a regular basis, they may rely on the mass media for information on LGBT people and LGBT issues and thus retain these stereotypes.\n\nMultiple studies have correlated childhood gender nonconformity with eventual homosexual or bisexual outcomes in males, and gay and bisexual boys who adopted more feminine gender roles at a younger age are at higher risk of reporting suicide, sexual abuse, drug abuse, and arrests for sexual misconduct than other gay and bisexual youth. Many cultures, such as the kathoey in Thailand, have their own categorisations of sexual orientation and identity, and gender identity that are difficult to categorise using the Western labels gay and transgender.\n\nIn the United States, boys are often homosocial, and gender role performance determines social rank. While homosexual boys receive the same enculturation, they are less compliant. Martin Levine says: \nHarry (1982, 51–52), for example, found that 42 percent of his gay respondents were 'sissies' during childhood. Only 11 percent of his heterosexual samples were gender role nonconformists. Bell, Weinberg, and Hammersmith (1981, 188) reported that half of their man homosexual subjects practiced gender-inappropriate behaviour in childhood. Among their heterosexual men, the rate of noncompliance was 25 percent. Saghir and Robins (1973, 18) found that one-third of their gay man respondents conformed to gender role dictates. Only 3 percent of their heterosexual men deviated from the norm. Thus, effeminate boys, or \"sissies\", are physically and verbally harassed, causing them to feel worthless and to \"de-feminise\" themselves.\n\nPrior to the Stonewall riots, changes in stereotypical gender role performance were observed among certain segments of the gay male population: According to Stearn:\nThey have a different face for different occasions. In conversations with each other, they often undergo a subtle change. I have seen men who appeared to be normal suddenly smile roguishly, soften their voices, and simper as they greeted homosexual friends ... Many times I saw these changes occur after I had gained a homosexual's confidence and he could safely risk my disapproval. Once as I watched a luncheon companion become an effeminate caricature of himself, he apologised, [saying] \"It is hard to always remember that one is a man.\"\n\nPre-Stonewall \"closet\" culture accepted homosexuality as effeminate behaviour, and thus emphasised camp, drag, and swish behaviour, including an interest in fashion and decorating. Masculine gay men were marginalised and formed their own communities, such as the leather subculture and bear subculture, and wore clothes such as sailor uniforms that were commonly associated with working-class people. Post-Stonewall, \"clone culture\" became dominant and effeminacy is now marginalised. This is evident in a definite preference shown in personal ads for masculine-behaving men. Sheila Jeffreys termed this the \"butch shift\" of the 1970s, described it as having been inspired by the success of the gay liberation movement, and saw it as being exemplified in the Village People dance music group.\n\nThe avoidance of effeminacy by men, including gay ones, has been linked to possible impedance of personal and public health. Regarding HIV/AIDS, masculine behaviour was stereotyped as being unconcerned about safe sex practices while engaging in promiscuous sexual behaviour. Early reports from New York City indicated more women had been tested for HIV/AIDS at their own behest than men.\n\nDavid Halperin compares \"universalising\" and \"minoritising\" notions of gender deviance. He says, \"'Softness' either may represent the specter of potential gender failure that haunts all normative masculinity, an ever-present threat to the masculinity of every man, or it may represent the disfiguring peculiarity of a small class of deviant individuals.\" The term \"effeminaphobia\" was coined to describe strong anti-effeminacy. In 1995, J. Michael Bailey coined the similar term, \"femiphobia\", to describe the ambivalence gay men and culture have about effeminate behaviour. Gay author Tim Bergling also coined the term \"sissyphobia\" in his work \"\".\n\nIn gay slang, \"to top\" means to have anal sex in an insertive capacity (penetrating with one's penis); \"to bottom\" means to have anal sex in a receptive capacity (being penetrated). When the terms are used as designations of self-identity, \"a top\" may be a man who has a clear preference for topping, and \"a bottom\" may be a man who has a clear preference for bottoming; \"versatile\" refers to a man who enjoys both and has no clear preference. Studies suggest that most gay men are in this sense \"versatiles\". One study has found that a \"top\" is also more likely to act as an insertive partner in other forms of penetrative sex, such as penetrative fellatio and sex toy play.\n\nBecause in heterosexual penetrative sex a man normally performs an insertive function and a woman normally performs a receptive function, popular opinion associates \"topping\" with masculinity and \"bottoming\" with femininity. Gender roles often color power dynamics in a hierarchical manner. Although this is not a requirement, some expect a \"top\" to be dominant in a relationship or at least during sex, while a \"bottom\" may be expected to be submissive. The expression \"\" refers to a \"bottom\" who tends to be dominant during sex.\n\nThere is considerable debate as to whether childhood gender stereotypes are inborn or are influenced by environmental factors. The presence of homosexual or heterosexual relationships in families influences play patterns in children: children of same-sex couples are raised differently, resulting in gender roles different from those of opposite-sex parents, according to the gender binary. A study by Goldberg, Kashy and Smith shows that sons of lesbian mothers play in a less-masculine way than sons of homosexual fathers or of heterosexual parents.\n\nNon-traditional families, that is families where e.g. the mothers work, are now in a majority in the United States; with the advent of artificial insemination, surrogate mothering, and adoption, families do not have to be formed by the biological union of a male and a female.\n\nThe consequences of these changes for the adults and children involved are much debated. In a 2009 Massachusetts spousal benefits case, developmental psychologist Michael Lamb testified that parental sexual orientation does not negatively affect childhood development. Columnist Maggie Gallagher says heteronormative social structures are beneficial to society because they are optimal for the raising of children. Psychologists, Costa and Davies (2012), found that enforcing conservative gender roles, a social structure, is correlated with holding negative feelings and ideas for the LGBT community. Australian-Canadian ethicist Margaret Somerville says, \"giving same-sex couples the right to found a family unlinks parenthood from biology\".\n\nThere has also been much research into childhood gender nonconformity and sexual orientation. Gay men often report having been feminine boys and lesbian women often report having been masculine girls. In men, CGN is a strong predictor of sexual orientation in adulthood, but this relationship is not as well understood in women. Women with congenital adrenal hyperplasia reported more male-typical play behaviours and showed less heterosexual interest.\n\nMaura Kelly and Elizabeth Hauck conducted research on the division of labour within same-sex relationships through interviewing a sample of same-sex couples (2015). Kelly and Hauck’s study found that labour in same-sex couples is divided on the basis of time availability and personal preference.These factors are more influential in the division of labour than the belief that the labour should be divided evenly between the partners in same-sex couples.\n\nKelly and Hauck's research found that divisions of labour within a same-sex relationship cannot be viewed as setting a precedent as to what gender roles are normal. A female partner in a same-sex relationship may perform chores that are considered feminine, like cooking, cleaning, and child-rearing. However, the other female partner may perform chores that are considered masculine, like outside work and employment outside of the home. The partners’ behaviours do not support gender roles because all the roles performed are done by women. There is not an inherent distinction made between masculine and feminine because women are performing both types of chores. This lack of gender role discrimination would be true in same-sex relationships between two men as well.\n\nOne large myth about lesbians is that they are all feminists. While this is not true, there is a specific branch of feminism called \"lesbian feminism\", a cultural movement in the Western world, most influential in the 1970s–1980s, that advocates lesbianism as the logical result of feminism.\n\nVanessa Thorpe says in \"The Observer\", \"... key members of the Votes For Women movement led a promiscuous lesbian lifestyle\". The women's suffrage movement is generally considered a feminist movement.\n\nLesbian feminism typically situates the state of being a lesbian as a form of resistance to patriarchal institutions. Sexual orientation is posited here as a choice, or at least a conscious response to a situation. It is also seen as a critique of male supremacy, chauvinism, and masculinity in general. Lesbian separatism is a form of separatist feminism specific to lesbians. In separatist feminism, lesbianism is posited as a key feminist strategy that enables women to invest their energies in other women, creating new space and dialogue about women's relationships, and typically limits their dealings with men.\n\nSecond-wave pro-feminism paid increased attention to issues of sexuality, particularly the relationship between homosexual men and hegemonic masculinity. This shift led to more cooperation between the men's liberation and gay liberation movements. In part, this cooperation arose because masculinity was understood to be a social construction, and as a response to the universalization of \"men\" seen in previous men's movements. In 2010, Elizabeth Wilson wrote that the Gay Liberation Front and feminism worked alongside one another to \"spark a way of thinking about human relations in society that has led to significant change\"; Peter Tatchell wrote about the GLF's \"idealistic vision [that] involved creating a new sexual democracy, without homophobia, misogyny, racism and class privilege\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43040461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43040461", "title": "GikII", "text": "GikII\n\nGikII is a series of European workshops on the intersections between law, technology and popular culture. It is hosted at a different institution every year. The first conference was in 2006 and was held in Edinburgh, and was organised by Lilian Edwards and Andres Guadamuz.\n\nThe conference has been held in several European universities and institutions, including UCL, Oxford, Edinburgh, Amsterdam, Humboldt Institute in Berlin, and Sussex.\n\nThe conference deals with what the organisers describe as \"geek law\", studying the intersection of law, regulation, popular culture and technology. The covered topics include artificial intelligence, cryptocurrencies, virtual worlds, games, tattoos, 3D printing, fan fiction, digital privacy, avatar rights, augmented reality, and robots.\n\nThe Call for Papers of the first workshop gave the following explanation:\n\nGeeks are the people who contribute to this knowledge: fellow travellers on the digital omnibus, who delight in finding, publishing, inventing and sharing nuggets of joyful knowledge and innovation from the worlds of technology, science, popular culture, and technotrivia. LIIs are Legal Information Institutes: invaluable on-line temples of legal knowledge. The patriarch of the field is AustLII, but the concept has spread through the world bringing us BAILII, PacLII, CommonLII, and no doubt, many more bad puns to come.\n\nGikII proposes to be the place where these worlds, institutions and players will come together for the first time at a major law and technology conference.\n"}
{"id": "16656457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16656457", "title": "Grave field", "text": "Grave field\n\nA grave field is a prehistoric cemetery, typically of Bronze Age and Iron Age Europe.\n\nGrave fields are distinguished from necropoleis by the former's lack of above-ground structures, buildings, or grave markers.\n\nGrave fields can be classified by type of burial custom:\n\n\n\n\nAlemannic grave fields date to the 5th to 8th century. Before the middle of the 5th century, grave fields are small, often including less than five graves, probably corresponding to a single homestead or family. The sparsity of graves in the early period may suggest partial cremation. In the mid- to late 5th century, burial customs appear to change, with the introduction of larger row-grave fields.\n\nGrave fields are often arranged on elevated ground outside settlements. The arrangement of graves is often east to west — the head of the body placed on the western end, looking east.\n\nUntil the beginning of the 6th century, these row graves are accompanied by more prestigious single graves including precious grave goods. Quast (1997) assumes that the 5th-century change in burial practice was due to a renewed influx of Elbe Germanic settlers (Danube Swabians displaced by Gothic migration).\n\nMale graves often include weapons — in the mid-5th century typically a Francisca axe, besides spathas and seaxes. Female graves often include jewellery, such as bracelets, ear-rings and fibulae.\n\nLarge Alemannic row grave fields have been excavated at Lauchheim, Gammertingen, Weingarten, Ravensburg, all in Swabia, the one in Ravensburg including over 1,000 graves dating to between 450 and 710. The field in Sasbach includes over 2,000 graves. Mengen has over 1,000 graves.\n\nAlemannic graves appear south of the Rhine, in the Swiss Plateau, from the 6th century. Alemannic colonization of the Swiss plateau apparently took place from the Basel area, since the number of graves there declines simultaneously. Significant influx of Alemannic settlers to the Swiss plateau begins only in the 7th century. Grave fields from this period include one at Elgg-Ettenbühl near Winterthur; with 340 graves it is the largest field south of the High Rhine.\n\nChristianization of the Alemanni during the 7th century brings about the end of the grave field traditions. The dead from this period were buried in graveyards near churches. Prestigious graves of local nobility appears to have resisted the Christianization of burial customs into the 8th century, possibly until the 786 decree of Charlemagne outlawing pagan burial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1094479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094479", "title": "Gustavus Adolphus College", "text": "Gustavus Adolphus College\n\nGustavus Adolphus College ( ) is a private, coeducational liberal arts college in St. Peter, Minnesota. A four-year, residential institution, Gustavus Adolphus College was founded in 1862 by Swedish Americans and is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. The college retains its Swedish and Lutheran heritage. The premier event on campus is the annual Nobel Conference, which features Nobel Laureates and other scholars explaining their expertise to a general audience. In 2015, Gustavus Adolphus College ranked as the 64th best liberal arts college in the United States.\n\nThe predecessor to the college was founded in 1862 as a Lutheran parochial school in Red Wing by Eric Norelius. The school offered classes for grade-school children; collegiate courses were not offered until nearly a decade later, but the college uses the earlier date as the year it was founded. Originally named Minnesota Elementarskola (\"elementary school\" in Swedish), it moved the following year to East Union, an unincorporated town in Dahlgren Township. In 1865, on the 1,000th anniversary of the death of St. Ansgar, known as the \"Apostle of the North\", the institution was renamed and incorporated as St. Ansgar's Academy.\n\nIn April 1873, the college was to be renamed Gustavus Adolphus Literary & Theological Institute in honor of King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden once the final location and buildings were secured. A delegation of residents from St. Peter won favor from the founders to relocate there as a result of an economic crisis and the town's offer of $10,000 and donation of acreage for a larger campus. Courses were initially to start in the fall of 1875 but slow progress on the construction of the first campus building, Old Main, delayed the opening. On October 16, 1876, Gustavus Adolphus College opened at the location that still stands today. It is the oldest of several Lutheran colleges founded in Minnesota. It was founded as a college of the Augustana Evangelical Lutheran Church. In 1962 it became affiliated with the Lutheran Church in America, when the Augustana Synod merged into that body. The Lutheran Church in America merged in 1988 to create the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.\n\nDuring World War II, Gustavus Adolphus College was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission.\n\nThe annual Nobel Conference was established in the mid-1960s when college officials asked the Nobel Foundation for permission to name the new science building the Alfred Nobel Hall of Science as a memorial to the Swedish inventor Alfred Nobel. Permission was granted, and the facility's dedication ceremony in 1963 included officials from the Nobel Foundation and 26 Nobel Laureates. Following the 1963 Nobel Prize ceremonies in Stockholm, college representatives met with Nobel Foundation officials, asking them to endorse an annual science conference at the College and to allow use of the Nobel name to establish credibility and high standards. At the urging of several prominent Nobel laureates, the foundation granted the request, and the first conference was held at the college in January 1965.\n\n\nStudents choose from over 70 programs of study with 75 majors in 25 academic departments and three interdisciplinary programs (including 17 honors majors), ranging from physics to religion to Scandinavian studies. Gustavus has been among the top 10 liberal-arts institutions nationally as the baccalaureate origin of physics PhDs. The college has 170 faculty, of whom 94% are tenure-track. The student-to-faculty ratio is 11:1, creating an average class size of approximately 15. The College's Writing Across the Curriculum program fosters writing skills in all academic disciplines. Since 1983, the college has had a chapter of the academic honor society Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nThe school offers an alternative interdisciplinary general education program known as the Three Crowns Curriculum. Recently the college instituted a test-optional admission policy, making it the first private college in Minnesota to forgo the ACT/SAT score requirement on its application.\n\nSince its founding, Gustavus Adolphus College has produced various Fulbright, Goldwater, Marshall, Rhodes, Truman, National Science Foundation, and NCAA Postgraduate fellowship winners and scholars.\n\nIn 2017, Gustavus Adolphus College was ranked 77th in the national liberal arts college category and 45th in the Best Value Schools category by \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\"/Times Higher Education College Rankings placed Gustavus 48th on its list of the top 100 liberal arts colleges in the United States in 2017, third among Minnesota private colleges after academic \"rivals\" Carleton and Macalester. Gustavus placed 140th out of 1,061 institutions measured, including public and private colleges.\n\nThe 2016 edition of the \"Washington Monthly\" college rankings placed Gustavus 58th among liberal arts colleges.\n\nIn 2016, Gustavus Adolphus College ranked 74th of 705 colleges and universities in MONEY magazine. The college also ranked 23rd on the magazine's list of the 50 Best Liberal Arts Colleges.\n\n\"The New York Times\" ranked Gustavus #35 in the United States in their third annual College Access Index of Top Colleges in 2017.\n\nGustavus Adolphus College is considered a highly selective, highly competitive private liberal arts college. In 2016, \"U.S. News & World Report\" classified Gustavus as \"more selective\" in its National Liberal Arts Ranking. To increase student enrollment, Gustavus offers an expenses-paid \"Gustavus Fly-In Program\" to US citizens and permanent residents. In 2014, the school had an acceptance rate of 61.1%.\n\nThe average ACT score in the middle 50% of enrolled students was between 24 and 30; 78% of students presented the ACT as part of their applications. The average SAT score in the middle 50% of enrolled students was 590-680 for math and 555-690 for reading; 11% of students submitted the SAT as part of their applications. Gustavus is a test-optional admissions policy college, reaffirming its commitment to holistic admissions. A student's coursework is the most important factor in admission. The average high school GPA for incoming freshmen was 3.67.\n\nIn 2017, Gustavus expanded scholarship funding for high-achieving students with a cumulative high school grade point average of 3.9 or above and an average composite ACT score of 32-36.\n\nThe college's first building in St. Peter, affectionately known as Old Main, originally housed the entire college. The campus, known as The Hill, comprises 340 landscaped acres and features science facilities, computer and language labs, and a large dining facility. The campus includes 33 sculptures by the late Minnesota sculptor Paul Granlund, an alumnus of the college who for many years was sculptor-in-residence.\n\nEvery tree indigenous to Minnesota is grown in the college's Linnaeus Arboretum. In 2009 students founded Big Hill Farm, which grows produce for the cafeteria and aims to connect the campus to sustainable agriculture. In the fall of 2011, a new social science center, Beck Hall, opened on campus.\n\n\n\"Old Main\" was the first building erected at Gustavus Adolphus College. Its cornerstone was laid on August 12, 1875. Contracted to O. N. Ostrom and constructed from Kasota limestone, the total cost of the building was estimated at $25,000. Old Main was completed in 1876 and dedicated on October 31 of that year. Originally called the School Building, as more buildings were erected it became known as the Main Building and by 1905 as Old Main.\n\nThe building was heated by wood stoves and housed the entire college in the institution's first years. It originally contained several classrooms and sleeping quarters for students, faculty, and the president as well as a kitchen, dining room, chapel, library, and museum. Until 1920, it was tradition for seniors to gather on the building's roof for a sunrise breakfast the morning of commencement.\n\nOn its 50th anniversary in 1926, Old Main underwent a renovation from funds provided by the Minnesota Conference. The 1998 tornado, which destroyed much of the Gustavus campus, damaged Old Main's bell tower. In 2005 another renovation was completed; the building now houses the Office of the Chaplains and the religion, political science, philosophy, and classics departments.\n\nA popular ghost story surrounding Old Main is the tale told by former Chaplain Richard Elvee of two deceased Gustavus security officers, Harley and Barney, occasionally wandering its halls while he composed his sermons on Sunday mornings.\n\nChrist Chapel is a church in the center of Gustavus Adolphus College. Constructed from March 2, 1959, to fall 1961, the chapel was dedicated on January 7, 1962. Its construction was made possible by gifts from the congregations of the Lutheran Augustana Synod, a predecessor body of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, which is affiliated with the college. Ecumenical services are held each weekday and on Sundays during the academic year. There is seating for 1,500 people in the chapel, 1,200 on the main floor and 300 in the balcony. It is the largest seating area on campus.\n\nThe chapel and surrounding grounds are adorned by the sculptures of Paul T. Granlund, the former artist-in-residence at Gustavus Adolphus College.\n\nChrist Chapel's organ was originally built by Hillgreen-Lane when the Chapel was built. It has been significantly altered in the last 30 years. These renovations, carried out by David Engen and more recently by the Hendrickson Organ Company of St. Peter, include a new console with solid state combination and relay, moving several ranks of pipes from an antiphonal position in the basement into the main organ above the balcony, restructuring the Swell mixture, and extensive repairs after the 1998 tornado. It has 55 speaking ranks of pipes, played from a four-manual console, and a preparation on the new Great chest for a mounted Kornet V stop. The Chapel also houses a small portative organ of three stops on one manual that is used for accompanying and especially for continuo playing in Baroque compositions.\n\nOn March 29, 1998, the chapel's spire was toppled by the tornado that left most of St. Peter, Minnesota in ruins. On March 17, 2008, the cross that had been atop the spire was hung from the chapel's ceiling during a service marking the 10-year anniversary of the tornado.\n\n\nStudents and alumni of the college are known as Gusties. Most students live in 14 residence halls on campus or in college-owned houses/apartments; a small minority live in theme areas such as the Carlson International Center, CHOICE substance-free housing, and the Swedish House. Students with permission from the college may choose to live off campus, in St. Peter or elsewhere.\n\nThe college has an independently operated dining service, serving the Market Place cafeteria and Courtyard Cafe. \n\nTraditions at Gustavus include traying down the hill from Old Main in the winter, random Gustie Rousers, stargazing on top of the academic building Olin, playing tennis in the Bubble, and streaking through the Linnaeus Arboretum. Gustie traditions are mostly exclusively known by Gusties.\n\nThere are more than 120 special interest groups and organizations at Gustavus Adolphus College. Students are very engaged on campus. In 2015, the Carnegie Foundation designated Gustavus a \"community-engaged campus\"—the highest national distinction available for higher education.\n\nActive student organizations on campus have included Model United Nations, the National Forensics Debate team, and the Gustavian Society of Filmmakers. Students are encouraged to create their own clubs or teams and apply to Student Senate for funding.\n\nNearly 1/5 of students are active in Greek life at Gustavus, where there are ten recognized Greek organizations on campus (some have been suspended and are no longer recognized by the college).\n\nMany musical ensembles perform throughout the year, including the Gustavus Choir, the Choir of Christ Chapel, the Lucia Singers, the Gustavus Adolphus Symphony Orchestra, Gustavus Wind Orchestra, Gustavus Jazz Lab Band, etc.\n\nIn 1942, Percy Grainger, writing in The Musical Quarterly, publicised the \"pathbreaking activities\" – as an historically appropriate ensemble – of the college's \"A Capella Choir\" and chamber orchestra, which toured a series of concerts of music from the 13th to 20th centuries. He praised the \"rare value\", \"practical skill\" and \"subtle esthetic intuition\" of conductor G. Adolph Nelson.\n\nGrainger had an opportunity to observe the work of Nelson, the choir and orchestra at close quarters by touring and performing with them that year. Nelson was the college's musical director from 1930 to 1945 and the driving force behind a group that toured the eastern states, winning both critical acclaim and financial success. He was particularly concerned to revive and share the music of the chapel, including not just voices but also the instruments that supported them, including organ, brass and strings. \"Nelson, through his dedication to choral singing and to Gustavus Adolphus College, his innate musicality, and his pioneering spirit, gave birth to the ensemble now known as the Gustavus Choir.\"\n\nGustavus has a very active theatre program. Theater and dance events are a vibrant part of Gustie life, with shows every fall and spring and a musical every other year. Students do not need to be a part of the theatre program to audition for plays. The Gustavus Dance Company and the Apprentice Company hold open auditions and perform a fully produced set of work.\n\nThe college is also home to the social justice theatre troupe I Am We Are.\n\nThere are two art galleries on campus, the Hillstrom Museum of Art and the Schaefer Art Gallery.\n\nThe college's study abroad program has included internships at BNU-HKBU United International College in Zhuhai, China.\nGustavus is also a member of the Intercollegiate Sri Lanka Education (ISLE) consortium, run by Bowdoin College.\n\nGustavus is a founding member of the Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, MIAC. Key sports at the college are tennis, swimming & diving, golf, basketball, ice hockey, football, and soccer. The school's team name is the Golden Gusties, represented by a lion mascot because Gustavus Adolphus was known as \"The Lion of the North.\" Gustavus has had three players drafted in the NFL Draft: Russ Buckley in 1940, Kurt Ploeger in 1985, and Ryan Hoag in 2003. On March 26, 2014, Gustavus announced it would not continue its men's and women's Nordic skiing team.\n\nThe Gustavus women's softball team placed third in the NCAA Division III national tournament in 2009. The Gustavus men's hockey team placed second in the NCAA Division III national tournament in 2009. The Gustavus soccer team finished second in the NCAA Division III national tournament in 2005 — led in part by three-time all American Robert \"Bobby\" Kroog. In 2003 the Gustavus men's basketball team finished second in the NCAA Division III national tournament. In the middle of the twentieth century, the Gustavus football team was coached by long-time coach/AD Moose Malmquist. In addition, the women's hockey team has won seven conference titles, including six straight, and has placed in the top four nationally in 2002, 2005, 2006 and 2010. The Gustavus men's tennis team have made 11 consecutive appearances at the NCAA Division III National Championships. Gustavus Adolphus College hosted the 2013 USTA/ITA Midwest Regional Championships at the Swanson Indoor Tennis Center and Brown Outdoor Courts in St. Peter, Minnesota. In 2003 Steve Wilkinson's squad placed third at the NCAA Division III Championships as well as a first-place finish at the ITA Indoor Championships. Steve Wilkinson retired in 2009 as the winningest coach in college tennis history with a record of 929-279. Gustavus player Eric Butorac, closed out his senior season of 2003 by winning both the NCAA Division III singles and doubles championships, with Kevin Whipple as his partner. In 2003, Eric Butorac turned pro. He is now a doubles specialist, and has achieved success being the no. 3 ranked American doubles player for the bulk of the past six years.\n\nA couple of women alumni who played ice hockey at Gustavus, have gone on to represent the United States at the 2016 Women's Bandy World Championship, and one represents the Unified Korean team at the 2018 Winter Olympics.\n\nGustavus placed 8th in the 2008–09 Learfield Sports Directors' Cup standings. The Directors' Cup is the only all-sports competition in intercollegiate athletics. In Division III, standings are based on national tournament finishes in 18 sports. In 2002–03 Gustavus placed a school-best sixth in the Directors' Cup standings.\n\nAlso known as the Gustie Rouser;\n\nCome on you Gusties, Fight on, Fight on. Shout out the battle cry of victory. Come on you Gusties fight to the end, fight on for dear old G – A – C. Gusties will shine tonight, Gusties will shine, Gusties will shine tonight, Gusties will shone. Beat 'em, bust 'em, that's our custom, Gusties will shine!\n\nGustavus Adolphus College is home to several publications and broadcasters:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22540578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22540578", "title": "Haferlschuh", "text": "Haferlschuh\n\nThe Haferlschuh () is the traditional Bavarian shoe. It was designed originally as a work shoe for alpine terrain, but it developed into a timeless classic. In Bavaria it may also be called a \"Bundschuh\". In Austria, it is known as a \"Schützenschuh.\"\n\nAccording to legend, in 1803 Franz Schratt, an alpine shoemaker from Oberstdorf (located in the Allgäu region of the Bavarian Alps), developed the Haferlschuh inspired by the goat hoof. However, Sternke asserts that the Haferlschuh is much older. With a boatlike front and a nailed sole, the shoes gave the wearer stability.\n\nSince 1900, the Haferlschuh has become a part of many alpine Trachten. Nonetheless the Haferlschuh is still worn as an everyday shoe, and not just for special occasions like the Oktoberfest.\n\n"}
{"id": "13097064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13097064", "title": "Harold Pinter bibliography", "text": "Harold Pinter bibliography\n\nBibliography for Harold Pinter is a list of selected published primary works, productions, secondary sources, and other resources related to English playwright Harold Pinter (1930–2008), the 2005 Nobel Laureate in Literature, who was also a screenwriter, actor, director, poet, author, and political activist. It lists works by and works about him, and it serves as the Bibliography (\"Works cited\") for the main article on Harold Pinter and for several articles relating to him and his works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3116273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116273", "title": "Imaginary Conversations", "text": "Imaginary Conversations\n\nImaginary Conversations is a publication consisting of five volumes of imaginary conversations, mainly between historical people of classical Greece and Rome, composed by the English author Walter Savage Landor. Landor's fame rests on this prose. The work is of great interest as a specimen of the poetic prose full of rich imagery & ornate diction as seen in De Quincey.\n\nThe Imaginary Conversations were begun when Landor, aged 46, was living with his family in Florence during 1821 where he had rooms in the Medici Palace and later rented the Villa Castigilione. The idea of the compositions began during his childhood as he wrote later: \"When I was younger..[a]mong the chief pleasures of my life, and among the commonest of my occupations was the bringing before me such heroes and heroines of antiquity, such poets and sages, such of the prosperous and unfortunate as most interested me … Engaging them in conversations best suited to their characters...\". The unenthusiastic reception of Landor's play “Count Julian” demonstrated that Landor, while adept at dialogue, lacked the dramatic capability necessary to convert it to stage performance, and he destroyed another tragedy “Ferranti and Giulio” in frustration at his publishers. \n\nAt Florence, Landor was corresponding with Robert Southey, who had planned to write a book of \"Colloquies\", and they considered collaborating on a project. Landor had finished fifteen dialogues by 9 March 1822, and sent them to Longman's company. Longman would not publish, so by the influence of his friend Julius Hare, he managed to get an agreement with the company of Taylor & Hessey to publish them. Some disputes with the publishers followed in which both Southey and William Wordsworth became involved, not without some embarrassment to Southey as one of the \"Conversations\" was between Southey and Porson on the merits of Wordsworth's poetry. During 1824, two volumes were published with eighteen conversations in each. The third volume of Imaginary Conversations was published by Henry Colburn during 1828 but Julius Hare was frustrated by Colburn’s delays, and the fourth and fifth volumes were finally published by James Duncan during 1829. Over the succeeding years Landor published occasional Imaginary Conversations as individual publications and collated a number of them during 1853.\n\nSome of the most notable conversations are as follows.\n\nVolume I (1824)\n\nVolume II (1824)\n\nVolume III (1828)\n\nVolume IV (1829)\n\nVolume V (1829)\n\nPublished in The Book of Beauty (1844)\nAesop and Rhodope.\n\n\"Imaginary Conversations\" was a favorite book of the character \"Tibby\" in E.M. Forster's 1910 novel, \"Howards End\".\n\nMentioned in the book and film 84 Charing Cross Road by Helene Hanff.\n\nIn \"The Gay Science\", Nietzsche praises Landor as a 'master of prose' for \"Imaginary Conversations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26859946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26859946", "title": "Leonard van der Kuijp", "text": "Leonard van der Kuijp\n\nLeonard W.J. van der Kuijp (born September 23, 1952) is a Dutch professor of Tibetan and Himalayan Studies and former chair of the Department of Sanskrit and Indian Studies (now the Department of South Asian Studies) at Harvard University.\n\nLeonard van der Kuijp began his studies in mathematics, but then shifted his attention to Tibet. He received his master's degree at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, Canada, and his doctorate at the University of Hamburg in Germany.\n\nIn 1993 van der Kuijp received the MacArthur Fellowship for \"pioneering contributions to the study of Tibetan epistemology, biography and poetry.\". Van der Kuijp worked with the Nepal Research Center of the Humboldt University of Berlin and the University of Washington in Seattle. In July 1995 he joined the faculty at Harvard University. In 1999, he founded the Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center (TBRC), together with E. Gene Smith.\n\nVan der Kuijp focuses his research primarily on the Indo-Tibetan Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhist intellectual history, Tibetan Buddhism and the relations of Tibet to Mongolia and China.\n\nHe coauthored \"An Early Tibetan Survey of Buddhist Literature\" which was published as volume 64 of the Harvard Oriental Series in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3693305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3693305", "title": "Magikano", "text": "Magikano\n\nThe anime series was also broadcast by Animax, who adapted and dubbed the series into English for broadcast across its English language networks in Southeast Asia and South Asia from February 2007, where the series received its English language premiere.\n\nADV Films has licensed the rights for the North American release of \"Magikano\" on DVD for $65,000, and released the first volume on December 4, 2007.\n\nADV Films' Anime Network began airing the anime on January 3, 2008 on their Subscription On Demand platform. On March 6, 2008 the anime began airing on their Free On Demand platform. In July 2008, the series became one of over 30 ADV titles to be transferred to Funimation.\n\nAyumi Mamiya is a witch cursed to lose her powers but there is one boy who can break the spell and save her. Haruo Yoshikawa thinks he is a normal boy but unknown to him his three sisters are witches who use their magical powers to keep him protected and ignorant about the existence of magic. Now Ayumi must wake up Haruo's latent powers to save herself but his sisters will have none of that.\n\nHe seems to want for the most part a quiet life he is often showing trying to relax and do normal things such as watch TV or just hang out and seems wary of his sisters antics and reluctant to get involved on schemes but will be kind and always help if he can\nHaruo is in his third year of junior high school (grade 9), in classroom B. Halfway though the manga series, he accidentally found out about magic but at first believes that his sisters are possessed demons, until his latent magic powers awaken after a misadventure.However, after this he still has a hard time believing in magic. In the last episode of the anime, Haruo is revealed to be an avatar, or incarnation of the Demon Lord/Maoh. \"Haru\" means \"spring\" in Japanese, as he is the oldest in his family.\n\n\"For a romantic comedy, Magikano has precious little romance. Or comedy for that matter. Indeed, with a third of the series already over by the close of this volume, it seems devoid of any ambition at all beyond testing how far sheer hyperactivity can be taken before viewers begin using their DVDs as doggy chew-toys.\" — Carl Kimlinger, \"Anime News Network\".\n\"Magikano has potential based on what's here so I'm curious as to how the two remaining volumes will play out but I'm just expecting more light and silly fun with no real meat to it.\" — Chris Beveridge, \"Mania\".\n\"Magikano has racy girls with magical means with more comedy and twists that harem fans can imaigne!\" — Holly Ellingwood, \"activeAnime\".\n\"This is a collection of gags in search of a plotline, and when it finally does find a story to tell, the change in tone is so abrupt that you end up wishing it had stayed pointless and stupid.\" — Carlo Santos, \"Anime News Network\".\n"}
{"id": "29097445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29097445", "title": "Mark Twain bibliography", "text": "Mark Twain bibliography\n\nSamuel Langhorne Clemens (November 30, 1835 – April 21, 1910), well known by his pen name Mark Twain, was an American author and humorist. Twain is noted for his novels \"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\" (1884), which has been called \"the Great American Novel,\" and \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\" (1876). He also wrote poetry, short stories, essays, and non-fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20947272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20947272", "title": "Medical Code of Ethics", "text": "Medical Code of Ethics\n\nMedical Code of Ethics this document establishing the ethical rules of behaviour of physicians and dental practitioners, defining the priorities of their professional work, showing the principles in the relations with patients, other physicians and the rest of community.\nThe greatest ethical imperative for the physician is the welfare of the patient.\n\nThe physician should approach patients with consideration, respecting their personal dignity, right to intimacy and privacy. \n\nThe physician should perform all diagnostic, therapeutic and preventive procedures with due exactitude and devoting the necessary time.\nThe physician has the duty to maintain confidentiality. Information obtained in the course of physician's professional duties concerning the patient and his background is to be kept confidential. The death of the patient does not release the physician from the duty of maintaining confidentiality.\nIt is the duty of every physician to continually update and develop professional knowledge and skills as well as to share them with co-workers. \n\n"}
{"id": "3848440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3848440", "title": "Mesostic", "text": "Mesostic\n\nA mesostic is a poem or other text arranged so that a vertical phrase intersects lines of horizontal text. It is similar to an acrostic, but with the vertical phrase intersecting somewhere in the midst of the line, as opposed to the beginning of each line.\n\nThe practice of using index words to select pieces from a preexisting text was developed by Jackson Mac Low as \"diastics\". It was used extensively by the experimental composer John Cage (Walsh 2001).\n\nThere are two types of mesostic: fifty percent and one hundred percent. (See also the example below.)\n\nBelow, an example of a one-hundred-percent mesostic:\n\nIt qualifies as a one-hundred-percent mesostic because there is no \"k\" or \"i\" in the text between the capital \"K\" of line 1 and the capital \"I\" of line 2 –\n– no \"i\" or \"t\" between the capital \"I\" and \"T\" –\n– and so on.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147606", "title": "Neath Abbey", "text": "Neath Abbey\n\nNeath Abbey () was a Cistercian monastery, located near the present-day town of Neath in South Wales, UK. It was once the largest abbey in Wales. Substantial ruins can still be seen, and are in the care of Cadw. Tudor historian John Leland called Neath Abbey \"the fairest abbey of all Wales.\"\n\nNeath Abbey is also the name of an area of Neath near to the abbey ruins.\n\nNeath Abbey was established in 1129 AD when Richard I de Grenville (d.post 1142), one of the Twelve Knights of Glamorgan, gave of his estate in Glamorgan, Wales, to Savigniac monks from western Normandy. The first monks arrived in 1130. Following the assumption of the Savigniac order into the Cistercian order in 1147, Neath Abbey also became a Cistercian house. The abbey was ravaged by the Welsh uprisings of the 13th century. \nDuring the Dissolution of the Monasteries by King Henry VIII of England the last abbot, Lleision ap Thomas, managed to buy time through payment of a large fine in 1536, but the abbey was dissolved in 1539.\n\nAt this time, the abbey was turned into a large estate, initially granted to Richard Williams, although by 1600 it was owned by Sir John Herbert, and had a substantial Tudor mansion occupying a part of the cloisters. The mansion itself was only habitable for 100 years or so, before being abandoned as the site became a scene of industry.\n\nBy 1730, some of the buildings were being used for copper smelting, and the rest were abandoned. In the late 18th century, an iron foundry was opened near the abbey ruins by a company owned by the Price, Fox and Tregelles families. The ruined walls of both the Abbey and later mansion were gradually engulfed in quantities of industrial waste. The ownership of the site passed to the Rice family, Barons Dynevor, and it was in the 1920s, under Walter FitzUryan Rice, 7th Baron Dynevor that a local group of amateur archaeologists began the process of uncovering the medieval ruins.\n\nThe archaeology of the abbey was eventually excavated between 1924 and 1935. The Neath Antiquarian Society was the driving force in this early archaology, in which 7,000 tons of slag and other industrial waste were removed by hand, to uncover the abbey ruins. In 1944 the ownership passed to the Ministry of Works, who undertook further stabilization of the walls. In 2014 Cadw, the successor body charged with the sites care, began a substantial project to further protect and stabilize parts of the ruins. The site is open to the public with some interpretation display boards on site.\n\nNorth of the abbey ruins are the remains of the gatehouse which would have controlled access into the abbey precinct. It now stands on New Road alongside the playground of Abbey Primary School. It was originally built around 1130, but the most prominent surviving features, two pointed windows that face onto the road, date from the 13th or 14th century. \n\nThe area adjacent to the ruins is used by a car retailer and a number of smaller businesses and workshops.\n\nThe site has been used to film several episodes of television series Doctor Who. The Time Lord (played by Matt Smith) and his companion Amy Pond (Karen Gillan) have filmed several times at the site, which was transformed into a complete structure.\n\nThe site was also used for shots during the filming of the BBC television series Merlin, for example the castle of the ancient kings where Arthur rediscovered the round table in Series 3 episode 13\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52376811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52376811", "title": "Nintendo Power Line", "text": "Nintendo Power Line\n\nThe Nintendo Power Line was a hotline that provided readers of \"Nintendo Power\" magazine hints to their favorite video games on Nintendo consoles, such as the Nintendo Entertainment System. It ran from the publishing of the first issue publication of Nintendo Power to June 2010, due to the Internet becoming more widespread. It was revived from November 11 to November 13, 2016 in celebration of the release of the NES Classic Edition. The messages, however, were automated rather than being live.\n"}
{"id": "6258906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6258906", "title": "Numerical cognition", "text": "Numerical cognition\n\nNumerical cognition is a subdiscipline of cognitive science that studies the cognitive, developmental and neural bases of numbers and mathematics. As with many cognitive science endeavors, this is a highly interdisciplinary topic, and includes researchers in cognitive psychology, developmental psychology, neuroscience and cognitive linguistics. This discipline, although it may interact with questions in the philosophy of mathematics, is primarily concerned with empirical questions.\n\nTopics included in the domain of numerical cognition include:\n\nA variety of research has demonstrated that non-human animals, including rats, lions and various species of primates have an approximate sense of number (referred to as \"numerosity\") (for a review, see ). For example, when a rat is trained to press a bar 8 or 16 times to receive a food reward, the number of bar presses will approximate a Gaussian or Normal distribution with peak around 8 or 16 bar presses. When rats are more hungry, their bar pressing behavior is more rapid, so by showing that the peak number of bar presses is the same for either well-fed or hungry rats, it is possible to disentangle time and number of bar presses. In addition, in a few species the parallel individuation system has been shown, for example in the case of guppies which successfully discriminated between 1 and 4 other individuals.\n\nSimilarly, researchers have set up hidden speakers in the African savannah to test natural (untrained) behavior in lions . These speakers can play a number of lion calls, from 1 to 5. If a single lioness hears, for example, three calls from unknown lions, she will leave, while if she is with four of her sisters, they will go and explore. This suggests that not only can lions tell when they are \"outnumbered\" but that they can do this on the basis of signals from different sensory modalities, suggesting that numerosity is a multisensory concept.\n\nDevelopmental psychology studies have shown that human infants, like non-human animals, have an approximate sense of number. For example, in one study, infants were repeatedly presented with arrays of (in one block) 16 dots. Careful controls were in place to eliminate information from \"non-numerical\" parameters such as total surface area, luminance, circumference, and so on. After the infants had been presented with many displays containing 16 items, they habituated, or stopped looking as long at the display. Infants were then presented with a display containing 8 items, and they looked longer at the novel display.\n\nBecause of the numerous controls that were in place to rule out non-numerical factors, the experimenters infer that six-month-old infants are sensitive to differences between 8 and 16. Subsequent experiments, using similar methodologies showed that 6-month-old infants can discriminate numbers differing by a 2:1 ratio (8 vs. 16 or 16 vs. 32) but not by a 3:2 ratio (8 vs. 12 or 16 vs. 24). However, 10-month-old infants succeed both at the 2:1 and the 3:2 ratio, suggesting an increased sensitivity to numerosity differences with age (for a review of this literature see ).\n\nIn another series of studies, Karen Wynn showed that infants as young as five months are able to do very simple additions (e.g., 1 + 1 = 2) and subtractions (3 - 1 = 2). To demonstrate this, Wynn used a \"violation of expectation\" paradigm, in which infants were shown (for example) one Mickey Mouse doll going behind a screen, followed by another. If, when the screen was lowered, infants were presented with only one Mickey (the \"impossible event\") they looked longer than if they were shown two Mickeys (the \"possible\" event). Further studies by Karen Wynn and Koleen McCrink found that although infants' ability to compute exact outcomes only holds over small numbers, infants can compute approximate outcomes of larger addition and subtraction events (e.g., \"5+5\" and \"10-5\" events).\n\nThere is debate about how much these infant systems actually contain in terms of number concepts, harkening to the classic nature versus nurture debate. suggested that a child innately has the concept of natural number, and only has to map this onto the words used in her language. , disagreed, saying that these systems can only encode large numbers in an approximate way, where language-based natural numbers can be exact. Without language, only numbers 1 to 4 are believed to have an exact representation, through the parallel individuation system. One promising approach is to see if cultures that lack number words can deal with natural numbers. The results so far are mixed (e.g., ); , .\n\nHuman neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that regions of the parietal lobe, including the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) are activated when subjects are asked to perform calculation tasks. Based on both human neuroimaging and neuropsychology, Stanislas Dehaene and colleagues have suggested that these two parietal structures play complementary roles. The IPS is thought to house the circuitry that is fundamentally involved in numerical estimation , number comparison (; ) and on-line calculation, or quantity processing (often tested with subtraction) while the IPL is thought to be involved in rote memorization, such as multiplication (see ). Thus, a patient with a lesion to the IPL may be able to subtract, but not multiply, and vice versa for a patient with a lesion to the IPS. In addition to these parietal regions, regions of the frontal lobe are also active in calculation tasks. These activations overlap with regions involved in language processing such as Broca's area and regions involved in working memory and attention. Additionally, the inferotemporal cortex is implicated in processing the numerical shapes and symbols, necessary for calculations with Arabic digits. More current research has highlighted the networks involved with multiplication and subtraction tasks. Multiplication is often learned through rote memorization and verbal repetitions, and neuroimaging studies have shown that multiplication uses a left lateralized network of the inferior frontal cortex and the superior-middle temporal gyri in addition to the IPL and IPS. Subtraction is taught more with quantity manipulation and strategy use, more reliant upon the right IPS and the posterior parietal lobule.\n\nSingle-unit neurophysiology in monkeys has also found neurons in the frontal cortex and in the intraparietal sulcus that respond to numbers. Andreas Nieder (; ; ) trained monkeys to perform a \"delayed match-to-sample\" task. For example, a monkey might be presented with a field of four dots, and is required to keep that in memory after the display is taken away. Then, after a delay period of several seconds, a second display is presented. If the number on the second display match that from the first, the monkey has to release a lever. If it is different, the monkey has to hold the lever. Neural activity recorded during the delay period showed that neurons in the intraparietal sulcus and the frontal cortex had a \"preferred numerosity\", exactly as predicted by behavioral studies. That is, a certain number might fire strongly for four, but less strongly for three or five, and even less for two or six. Thus, we say that these neurons were \"tuned\" for specific quantities. Note that these neuronal responses followed Weber's law, as has been demonstrated for other sensory dimensions, and consistent with the ratio dependence observed for non-human animals' and infants' numerical behavior .\n\nIt is important to note that while primates have remarkably similar brains to humans, there are differences in function, ability, and sophistication. They make for good preliminary test subjects, but do not show small differences that are the result of different evolutionary tracks and environment. However, in the realm of number, they share many similarities. As identified in monkeys, neurons selectively tuned to number were identified in the bilateral intraparietal sulci and prefrontal cortex in humans. Piazza and colleagues investigated this using fMRI, presenting participants with sets of dots where they either had to make same-different judgments or larger-smaller judgments. The sets of dots consisted of base numbers 16 and 32 dots with ratios in 1.25, 1.5, and 2. Deviant numbers were included in some trials in larger or smaller amounts than the base numbers. Participants displayed similar activation patterns as Neider found in the monkeys. The intraparietal sulcus and the prefrontal cortex, also implicated in number, communicate in approximating number and it was found in both species that the parietal neurons of the IPS had short firing latencies, whereas the frontal neurons had longer firing latencies. This supports the notion that number is first processed in the IPS and, if needed, is then transferred to the associated frontal neurons in the prefrontal cortex for further numerations and applications. Humans displayed Gaussian curves in the tuning curves of approximate magnitude. This aligned with monkeys, displaying a similarly structured mechanism in both species with classic Gaussian curves relative to the increasingly deviant numbers with 16 and 32 as well as habituation. The results followed Weber's Law, with accuracy decreasing as the ratio between numbers became smaller. This supports the findings made by Neider in macaque monkeys and shows definitive evidence for an approximate number logarithmic scale in humans.\n\nWith an established mechanism for approximating non-symbolic number in both humans and primates, a necessary further investigation is needed to determine if this mechanism is innate and present in children, which would suggest an inborn ability to process numerical stimuli much like humans are born ready to process language. Cantlon and colleagues set out to investigate this in 4 year old healthy, normally developing children in parallel with adults. A similar task to Piazza's was used in this experiment, without the judgment tasks. Dot arrays of varying size and number were used, with 16 and 32 as the base numerosities. in each block, 232 stimuli were presented with 20 deviant numerosities of a 2.0 ratio both larger and smaller. For example, out of the 232 trials, 16 dots were presented in varying size and distance but 10 of those trials had 8 dots, and 10 of those trials had 32 dots, making up the 20 deviant stimuli. The same applied to the blocks with 32 as the base numerosity. To ensure the adults and children were attending to the stimuli, they put 3 fixation points throughout the trial where the participant had to move a joystick to move forward. Their findings indicated that the adults in the experiment had significant activation of the IPS when viewing the deviant number stimuli, aligning with what was previously found in the aforementioned paragraph. In the 4 year olds, they found significant activation of the IPS to the deviant number stimuli, resembling the activation found in adults. There were some differences in the activations, with adults displaying more robust bilateral activation, where the 4 year olds primarily showed activation in their right IPS and activated 112 less voxels than the adults. This suggests that at age 4, children have an established mechanism of neurons in the IPS tuned for processing non-symbolic numerosities. Other studies have gone deeper into this mechanism in children and discovered that children do also represent approximate numbers on a logarithmic scale, aligning with the claims made by Piazza in adults.\n\nA study by Izard and colleagues investigated abstract number representations in infants using a different paradigm than the previous researchers because of the nature and developmental stage of the infants. For infants, they examined abstract number with both auditory and visual stimuli with a looking-time paradigm. The sets used were 4vs.12, 8vs.16, and 4vs.8. The auditory stimuli consisted of tones in different frequencies with a set number of tones, with some deviant trials where the tones were shorter but more numerous or longer and less numerous to account for duration and its potential confounds. After the auditory stimuli was presented with 2 minutes of familiarization, the visual stimuli was presented with a congruent or incongruent array of colorful dots with facial features. they remained on the screen until the infant looked away. They found that infants looked longer at the stimuli that matched the auditory tones, suggesting that the system for approximating non-symbolic number, even across modalities, is present in infancy. What is important to note across these three particular human studies on nonsymbolic numerosities is that it is present in infancy and develops over the lifetime. The honing of their approximation and number sense abilities as indicated by the improving Weber fractions across time, and usage of the left IPS to provide a wider berth for processing of computations and enumerations lend support for the claims that are made for a nonsymbolic number processing mechanism in human brains.\n\nThere is evidence that numerical cognition is intimately related to other aspects of thought – particularly spatial cognition. One line of evidence comes from studies performed on number-form synaesthetes. Such individuals report that numbers are mentally represented with a particular spatial layout; others experience numbers as perceivable objects that can be visually manipulated to facilitate calculation. Behavioral studies further reinforce the connection between numerical and spatial cognition. For instance, participants respond quicker to larger numbers if they are responding on the right side of space, and quicker to smaller numbers when on the left—the so-called \"Spatial-Numerical Association of Response Codes\" or SNARC effect. This effect varies across culture and context, however, and some research has even begun to question whether the SNARC reflects an inherent number-space association, instead invoking strategic problem solving or a more general cognitive mechanism like conceptual metaphor. Moreover, neuroimaging studies reveal that the association between number and space also shows up in brain activity. Regions of the parietal cortex, for instance, show shared activation for both spatial and numerical processing. These various lines of research suggest a strong, but flexible, connection between numerical and spatial cognition.\n\nModification of the usual decimal representation was advocated by John Colson. The sense of complementation, missing in the usual decimal system, is expressed by signed-digit representation.\n\nThe numeracy of indigenous peoples is studied to identify universal aspects of numerical cognition in humans. Notable examples include the Pirahã people who have no words for specific numbers and the Munduruku people who only have number words up to five. Pirahã adults are unable to mark an exact number of tallies for a pile of nuts containing fewer than ten items. Anthropologist Napoleon Chagnon spent several decades studying the Yanomami in the field. He concluded that they have no need for counting in their everyday lives. Their hunters keep track of individual arrows with the same mental faculties that they use to recognize their family members. There are no known hunter-gatherer cultures that have a counting system in their language. The mental and lingual capabilities for numeracy are tied to the development of agriculture and with it large numbers of indistinguishable items.\n\nThe \"Journal of Numerical Cognition\" is an open-access, free-to-publish, online-only Journal outlet specifically for research in the domain of numerical cognition. Journal link\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24860867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24860867", "title": "Ox-Tales", "text": "Ox-Tales\n\nOx-Tales refers to four anthologies of short stories written by 38 of the UK's best known authors. All the authors donated their stories to Oxfam. The books and stories are loosely based on the four elements (Earth, Fire, Air and Water)\n\nThe Ox-Tales books were published in partnership with Green Profile in order to raise revenue to fund Oxfam's projects which fight poverty around the world. Oxfam receives a percentage of the cover price of each book sold (£3.50 per book if bought directly from an Oxfam shop or Oxfam's online store and 50p if the books are purchased through other retailers).\n\nThe themes of the collections are intended to represent four aspects of Oxfam's work:\n\n\nEach book contains a poem by Vikram Seth and an afterword written by Oxfam, detailing their work in that area.\n\n38 British and Irish based authors contributed to this project.\n\nEarth:\nRose Tremain, Jonathan Coe, Marti Leimbach, Kate Atkinson, Ian Rankin, Marina Lewycka, Hanif Kureishi, Jonathan Buckley, Nicholas Shakespeare, Vikram Seth.\n\nAir:\nAlexander McCall Smith, Helen Simpson, DBC Pierre, AL Kennedy, Kamila Shamsie, Beryl Bainbridge, Louise Welsh, Diran Adebayo, Helen Fielding, Vikram Seth.\n\nWater:\nEsther Freud, David Park, Hari Kunzru, Zoë Heller, Michel Faber, William Boyd, Giles Foden, Joanna Trollope, Michael Morpurgo, Vikram Seth.\nFire:\nMark Haddon, Geoff Dyer, Victoria Hislop, Sebastian Faulks,\nJohn Le Carré, Xiaolu Guo, William Sutcliffe, Ali Smith, Lionel Shriver, Jeanette Winterson, Vikram Seth.\n\nOx-Tales were published by Green Profile (a section of Profile Books) on 2 July 2009. They were originally published to mark the start of Oxfam's first annual book festival - \"Bookfest\" (4–18 July 2009).\n\nIn Autumn 2009, the National Association for the Teaching of English (NATE) recommended Ox-Tales to its readers as \"enjoyable, thought-provoking reading for you and also for older students — well worth a place in the secondary school stock cupboard for KS4 of KS5.\"\n\nNATE reprinted Marina Lewycka's story \"The Importance of Having Warm Feet\" from the \"Ox-Tales: Earth\" collection in the October 2009 edition of their magazine, \"Classroom\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4989076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4989076", "title": "Politeness theory", "text": "Politeness theory\n\nPoliteness theory accounts for the redressing of affronts to a person's 'face' by face-threatening acts. The concept of face was derived from Chinese into English in the 19th century. Erving Goffman would then go on to introduce the concept into academia through his theories of 'face' and 'facework'. Although politeness has been studied in a variety of cultures for many years, Penelope Brown and Stephen Levinson's politeness theory has become very influential. In 1987, Brown and Levinson proposed that politeness was a universal concept, which has had some disagreement within academia. Politeness is the expression of the speakers' intention to mitigate face threats carried by certain face threatening acts toward the listener. Another definition is \"a battery of social skills whose goal is to ensure everyone feels affirmed in a social interaction\". Therefore, being polite can be an attempt for the speaker to save their own face or the face of who he or she is talking to.\n\nFace is the public self-image that every person tries to protect. Brown and Levinson defined positive face two ways: as \"the want of every member that his wants be desirable to at least some others executors\" (p. 62), or alternatively, \"the positive consistent self-image or 'personality' (crucially including the desire that this self-image be appreciated and approved of) claimed by interactants\" (p. 61). Negative face was defined as \"the want of every 'competent adult member' that his actions be unimpeded by others\", or \"the basic claim to territories, personal preserves, rights to non-distraction—i.e. the freedom of action and freedom from imposition\". Whereas positive face involves a desire for connection with others, negative face needs include autonomy and independence.\n\nTen years later, Brown characterized positive face by desires to be liked, admired, ratified, and related to positively, noting that one would threaten positive face by ignoring someone. At the same time, she characterized negative face by the desire not to be imposed upon, noting that negative face could be impinged upon by imposing on someone. Positive face refers to one's self-esteem, while negative face refers to one's freedom to act. These two aspects of face are the basic wants in any social interaction; during any social interaction, cooperation is needed amongst the participants to maintain each other's face. Participants can do this by using positive politeness and negative politeness, which pay attention to people's positive and negative face needs respectively.\n\nAccording to Brown and Levinson, positive and negative face exist universally in human culture; it has been argued that the notion of face is the actual universal component to their proposed politeness theory. A face threatening act is an act that inherently damages the face of the addressee or the speaker by acting in opposition to the wants and desires of the other. Face threatening acts can be verbal (using words/language), paraverbal (conveyed in the characteristics of speech such as tone, inflection, etc.), or non-verbal (facial expression, etc.). Based on the terms of conversation in social interactions, face-threatening acts are at times inevitable. At minimum, there must be at least one of the face threatening acts associated with an utterance. It is also possible to have multiple acts working within a single utterance.\n\nNegative face is threatened when an individual does not avoid or intend to avoid the obstruction of their interlocutor's freedom of action. It can cause damage to either the speaker or the hearer, and makes one of the interlocutors submit their will to the other. Freedom of choice and action are impeded when negative face is threatened.\n\nPositive face is threatened when the speaker or hearer does not care about their interactor's feelings, wants, or does not want what the other wants. Positive face threatening acts can also cause damage to the speaker or the hearer. When an individual is forced to be separated from others so that their well being is treated less importantly, positive face is threatened.\n\nIn their study of refusals to requests, Johnson et al. argue refusals can threaten both the positive and negative face of the refuser (the person who was asked a favor), and the positive face of the requester (the person asking for a favor). Obstacles, or reasons for non-compliance with a person's request, can \"vary on three dimensions: willingness-unwillingness, ability-inability, and focus on-focus away from the requester\".\n\nChoosing to refuse or not refuse a request can threaten the requester's positive and negative faces in different ways. When a person refuses to comply with a request from an intimate, they are violating relational expectations and increasing threat to their positive face; however, focusing attention away from the requester can decrease threat to the requester's positive face even if they are unwilling to help. In contrast, focusing attention on the requester can increase threat to positive face since it highlights the requester's unwillingness. Accepting a request is the least threatening act.\n\nThreats to the refuser's negative face vary along the ability and focus dimensions. Focusing away from the requester allows the refuser to maintain their autonomy while maintaining the relationship; this leads to less face-threat if the refuser has high ability because they can choose whether to comply or not. Focusing on the requester would threaten their relationship with the requester and their long-term autonomy (the requester may be unwilling to comply to future requests when the roles are reversed); however, if the refuser has low ability, focusing on the requester can actually decrease threats to negative face by showing they are unable to comply even if they wanted to.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Note: the requester and refuser would be analogous to the \"speaker\" and \"hearer\" roles discussed earlier in the section \"Face-threatening acts\".\n\nPoliteness strategies are used to formulate messages in order to save the hearer's positive face when face-threatening acts are inevitable or desired. Brown and Levinson outline four main types of politeness strategies: bald on-record, negative politeness, positive politeness, and off-record (indirect) as well as simply not using the face-threatening act.\n\nBald on-record strategy does not attempt to minimize the threat to the hearer's face, although there are ways that bald on-record politeness can be used in trying to minimize face-threatening acts implicitly, such as giving advice in a non-manipulative way. Often using such a strategy will shock or embarrass the addressee, and so this strategy is most often utilized in situations where the speaker has a close relationship with the listener, such as family or close friends. Brown and Levinson outline various cases in which one might use the bald on-record strategy, including:\n\nPositive politeness strategies seek to minimize the threat to the hearer's positive face. These strategies are used to make the hearer feel good about themselves, their interests or possessions, and are most usually used in situations where the audience knows each other fairly well. In addition to hedging and attempts to avoid conflict, some strategies of positive politeness include statements of friendship, solidarity, compliments, and the following examples from Brown and Levinson:\n\nPositive politeness strategies can also emerge in situations where the speakers do not know each other well. For example, Charlotte Rees and Lynn Knight have explored the role politeness theory plays in general practice consultations. They found that, in an effort to remain polite, patients agreed to the presence of a student observer during a general practice consultation even when the patient preferred a private consultation. Rees and Knight concluded that politeness strategies in the medical field can inhibit patients from providing complete and accurate information.\n\nAnother use of positive politeness is polite or formal speech such as Japanese honorifics. Again, this type of formal speech can be used to protect the hearer's positive face.\n\nNegative politeness strategies are oriented towards the hearer's negative face and emphasize avoidance of imposition on the hearer. By attempting to avoid imposition from the speaker, the risk of face-threat to the hearer is reduced. These strategies presume that the speaker will be imposing on the listener. Additionally, there is a higher potential for awkwardness or embarrassment than in bald on record strategies and positive politeness strategies. Negative face is the desire to remain autonomous so the speaker is more apt to include an out for the listener through distancing styles like apologies or indirect speech. The use of negative politeness strategies assume a direct relationship between indirectness and politeness. Examples from Brown and Levinson include:\n\nFavor seeking, or a speaker asking the hearer for a favor, is a common example of negative politeness strategies in use. Held observes three main stages in favor-seeking: the preparatory phase, the focal phase, and the final phase:\nMcCarthy and Carter provide an example of negative politeness using the following dialogue from the Australian television soap opera, \"Neighbours\":\n\nAll of this is done in attempt to avoid imposition on the hearer. Negative politeness is concerned with proceeding towards a goal in the smoothest way and with sensitivity to one's interlocutors. In English, deference ('Excuse me, sir, could you please close the window') is associated with the avoidance or downplaying of an imposition; the more we feel we might be imposing, the more deferential we might be. It is clearly a strategy for negative politeness and the redressing of a threat to negative face, through actions such as favor-seeking.\n\nThe final politeness strategy outlined by Brown and Levinson is the indirect strategy; This strategy uses indirect language and removes the speaker from the potential to be imposing. For example, a speaker using the indirect strategy might merely say \"wow, it's getting cold in here\" insinuating that it would be nice if the listener would get up and turn up the thermostat without directly asking the listener to do so. This strategy relies heavily on pragmatics to convey the intended meaning while still utilizing the semantic meaning as a way to avoid losing face (see below in Choice of strategy).\n\nPaul Grice argues that all conversationalists are rational beings who are primarily interested in the efficient conveying of messages. Brown and Levinson use this argument in their politeness theory by saying that rational agents will choose the same politeness strategy as any other would under the same circumstances to try to mitigate face. They show the available range of verbal politeness strategies to redress loss of face. Face-threatening acts have the ability to mutually threaten face, therefore rational agents seek to avoid face-threatening acts or will try to use certain strategies to minimize the threat. It should be noted that in certain situations, an over application of any particular strategy may actually achieve the opposite of the intended effect, as \"certain speakers consistently evaluate polite behavior as unnecessary and offensive.\"\n\nSpeaker (S) will weigh:\nIn most cooperative circumstances where 3. is greater than 2., S will want to minimize the face-threatening act.\n\nThe greater potential for loss of face requires greater redressive action. If the potential for loss of face is too great, the speaker may make the decision to abandon the face-threatening acts completely and say nothing.\n\nThe number next to each strategy corresponds to the danger-level of the particular face-threatening act. The more dangerous the particular face-threatening act is, the more S will tend to use a higher numbered strategy.\n\n\nIn deciding which strategy to use, the speaker runs through the individual payoffs of each strategy.\n\nAlthough Brown and Levinson's theory is widely applicable, some weaknesses in their theory have been noted:\n\nAdditionally, Brown and Levinson do not discuss all types of speech acts in their framework of politeness, including some that are very common in discourse (such as refusals of requests).\n\nScholars suggest power differences vary between strangers and acquaintances, which in turn, shape the effects of the politeness strategies. Social similarity and intimacy are other aspects to consider, as these connections create an increased awareness of the other person's meaning and request and therefore minimize the face-threatening act. In 1964, socio-psychologist Edward E. Jones wrote a book on ingratiation and defines it as \"a class of strategic behaviors illicitly designed to influence a particular other person concerning the attractiveness of one's personal qualities.\" The concept of ingratiation has helped spur further investigation into how it power dynamics play into Brown and Levinson's politeness theory. The claim has been made that Brown and Levinson's theory does not take into account the effect unique dynamic power relations and rankings has on the way people interact with one another (i.e. ingratiation).\n\nAn article written by Akio Yabuuchi argues a case for a new trichotomous politeness system to replace politeness theory's dichotomous politeness system; hierarchy politeness The proposed system is made up of fellowship politeness (similar to Brown and Levinson's positive politeness), autonomy politeness (similar to Brown and Levinson's negative politeness), and hierarchy politeness. Hierarchy politeness recognizes ingratiation as a way to communicate within power dynamics.\n\nAs discussed in the first shortcoming of politeness theory, academia's main critique of Brown and Levinson's theory is their claim of universality. Many sociologists criticize that politeness theory is heavily based on Western cultures where individualism is highly valued compared to many non-Western cultures where group identity is valued over the individual. One example of this is the Japanese honorific system which is used in even non face threatening circumstances, which goes against the theory that the politeness strategies are used to mitigate face threats. However, defendants of Brown and Levinson's theory reason that people have been socialized so that the absence of these forms would be considered a face threat, qualifying these forms as mitigating a face threatening act.\n\nIn a series of interviews conducted by Blum-Kulka, House and Kasper in 1989 of fifty-two Israeli families representing a wide spectrum of Israeli society, varying in terms of parents' ages (from early twenties to late fifties), socio-economic status (lower to upper middle class) and degree of religious observance, definitions and descriptions of polite and impolite speech and behavior were elicited by the researchers. They asked for verbalizations and evaluations of modes of situated speech performance, and encouraged exemplification via personal narratives. Both \"nimus\" and \"adivut\" are translation equivalents of 'politeness' and definitions offered by the families interviewed for both terms of \"politeness\" showed a positively association with tolerance, restraint, good manners, showing deference and being nice to people, but simultaneously referred to in a negative manner as something external, hypocritical, unnatural. Their analysis concluded that systems of social politeness seem to represent culturally colored interpretations of basic notions of tact, (e.g., face concerns) as conventionalized in any given culture or even speech event type. As suggested already by the semantic definitions offered for the term \"politeness\" by Israelis, the constituents of \"tact\" and its appropriate modes of expression are very much subject to cultural interpretation.\n\nDespite some shortcomings in the theory, it cannot be argued that the politeness theory is certainly a unique area of study within the communication field; it is very applicable and helpful in guiding individuals in ways to improve their speech and actions. Two qualities in particular stand out:\n\nAlthough the politeness theory originated from the curiosity of linguistics and language forming, scholars are beginning to see its other benefits: its ability to not only help with interpersonal relationships, workplace environments, and beyond.\n\nOne study by Cynthia Dunn observed a Japanese business that required etiquette training for their new employers. Employers were taught the company's definition of politeness; they were expected to incorporate these beliefs into their day-to-day behavior, such as \"kindness,\" \"consideration for others,\" and \"deference and respect\". However, self-presentation was also a critical feature employers wanted their employees to improve upon. An attractive self-presentation through various nonverbals and word choice would not only reflect the individual's politeness but the corporation's as well. This decision had very positive consequences in the workplace environment.\n\nThrough new studies there is the possibility that the politeness theory may penetrate deeper areas. For example, maybe more businesses will begin to take on these concepts and incorporate them into their discussion and conflict-resolution strategies. These could be effective in achieving long-term goals. Whatever the case may be, the politeness theory has a solid foundation in the field of communication and will certainly contribute positively to the assimilation of language and civility.\n\nIn his 1967 work, \"Interaction Ritual: Essays on Face-to-Face Behavior\", Goffman posits numerous times that with every remark people make, they risk maintaining their face and the face of others. Politeness theory is generally applied when assessing speech acts or remarks. However, a study conducted by Jurgita Sribaitė looked at politeness theory as it applied to written art reviews. The study focused on art reviews in Lithuania in the early and mid-1970s and analyzed the different strategies used by the art reviewers as they attempted to critique pieces of art while maintaining their face as well as the face of the artists. The study was able to identify face-saving acts and all four politeness strategies at work. The author states, \"Reviewers usually appear to have in mind the addressee's positive \"face\" (the desire to be liked and be approved of) as well as his negative \"face\" (the desire to be left free to act as he chooses).\" The examples given show that even the reviewers, who hold the obvious advantage over the addressees, cared to save both their face and the face of the artists.\n\nPositive politeness strategies are used as a way of giving someone a sense of belonging and as seen in the politeness strategies section, jokes are considered a positive politeness strategy. Therefore, joking can be a way of making someone feel as if though they belong. However, some contemporary researchers have noted that humor is complex and not all jokes can be considered polite. In fact, many instances of humor usage can negatively affect face for a number of reasons: the hearers ability to understand the joke is tested, the hearer may interpret verification of the willingness to hear a joke as aggressive, and the hearer can be threatened even by non aggressive humor if it tests their ability to understand the joke or their emotions. In a study conducted by Marta Dynel, in 2016, different occasions of humor used in the television show, House, were assessed and analyzed as polite or (im)polite. In reference to the conclusions of study Dynel states, \"Specifically, humor may serve politeness and/or impoliteness depending on the speaker's intention and awareness of the consequences his/her utterance may carry, the hearer's recognition of the speaker's intention, as well as his/her ultimate amusement or taking offense.\" In general, humor can provide face-saving tactics that enable solidarity, but it can also be a risky strategy to use because the speaker and the hearer must be on the same page.\n\nWhen delivering bad news the speaker has a lot to consider regarding his or her own face and the face of the hearer. In 2015, Miroslav Sirota and Marie Juanchich conducted a study on uncertainty communication with negative outcomes. The authors suggest \"First, speakers making a prediction may intend not only to inform about a probability level, but also to manage the hearer's faces or their own...Second, speakers perform face-managing intentions by altering (e.g. lessening or magnifying) the explicitly communicated probablility of a negative outcome...Thus, politeness theory posits that speakers use uncertainty quantifiers to pursue informative intentions and also to sugar-coat threatening news to manage the hearers' or their own faces.\"\n\nThe study conducted required people to communicate bad news to a friend regarding two scenarios. In the first scenario the subjects had to communicate a 50% probability that their friend's new car was going to break-down, and in the second scenario the subjects communicated a 50% chance that their friend's stock were going to lose their value. The subjects of the study reported that \"speakers intended to manage hearer's faces from threatening news or to manage their own facees from being wrong...speakers communicated an altered (in the case of our scenarios, lower) outcome probability when they intended to be tactful or cautious than when they intended to be informative.\"\n\nIn 2002, an oncologist by the name of Jerome Groopman wrote an article entitled, \"Dying Words; How should doctor's deliver bad news?\". In his article he recalls one of the first experiences in which he had to tell a young woman that she has malignint terminal cancer. He said to her, \"Claire, with this disease, a remission would ordinarily last three to six months. A person could expect to survive between one to two years.\" He found that this type of strategy (bald on-record) deeply shook the patient (negatively threatened her negative face). He now uses different strategies and realized that with sensitive information tact must be used, but also that the patient must be aware of the true probability of negative outcome. Many doctors, he argues, do not find that balance and tend to hedge information, \"More than forty percent of oncologists withhold a prognosis from a patient if he or she does not ask for it or if the family requests that the patient not be told. A similar number speak in euphemisms, skirting the truth.\" This statement reads similarly to the Sirota and Juanchich study; bad news is very frequently sugar-coated in attempt to save face.\n\nThree sociological factors affect the choice of politeness strategy and the seriousness of the face threatening action, social distance between speaker and listener, the power difference between the speaker and listener, and the seriousness of the face threat.\n\nIn his book, \"Outliers\", Malcolm Gladwell wrote a chapter entitled, \"The Ethnic Theory of Plane Crashes.\" The chapter attempts to explain why so many planes that crash end up crashing from human error, and not mechanical issues. One of the most prominent reasons, Gladwell points out, is the lack of effective communication due to the power dynamic between the captain and the first officer. He uses numerous examples of black box recordings in which the first officer hints at a problem instead of addressing it outright. He introduces the linguistic term, mitigated speech, and states, \"We mitigate when we're being polite, or when we're ashamed or embarrassed, or when we're being deferential to authority.\" First officers tend to use mitigated speech when addressing their captain and this has caused plane crashes in the past.\n\nLinguists Ute Fischer and Judith Orasanu conducted a study with a group of captains and first officers. They gave them a scenario in which they had to communicate to each other the need to change course to avoid a thunderstorm. Overwhelmingly the captains used commands, or what Brown and Levinson would consider bald on-record politeness strategy, to communicate with their first officer. On the other hand, the first officers only used hints, similar to what politeness theory would consider an off-record politeness strategy, to communicate with their superior, the captain. Airlines have been taking this issue seriously and have made strides in teaching officers and first captains how to communicate with each other effectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "931859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=931859", "title": "Proto-Indo-European society", "text": "Proto-Indo-European society\n\nProto-Indo-European society is the hypothesized culture of the ancient speakers of Proto-Indo-European, ancestors of all modern Indo–European ethnic groups who are speakers of Indo-European languages. \n\nTheories about the culture are based primarily on linguistics and not ethnic, social, or cultural study, as the origin of Indo–European and their urheimat is still debated. There is no direct evidence of the nature of a \"Proto-Indo-European society\", as such. Any conclusions in this article or otherwise are only purely linguistic inferences, and not established facts.\n\nMuch of our modern ideas in this field involve the unsettled Indo-European homeland debate about the precise origins of the language itself. There are three main approaches researchers have employed in their attempts to study this culture, but all are subject to resolution of the debate and all are the subject of criticism: \n\nWhat follows in this page are interpretations based only on the assumption of the Kurgan hypothesis of Indo-European origins, and are by no means universally accepted.\n\nWhether these people regarded themselves as a linguistic or ethnic community cannot be known, nor by which name they may have referred to themselves.\n\nLinguistics has allowed the reliable reconstruction of a large number of words relating to kinship relations. These all agree in exhibiting a patriarchal, patrilocal and patrilineal social fabric. Patrilocality is confirmed by lexical evidence, including the word *\"\", \"to lead (away)\", being the word that denotes a male wedding a female (but not vice versa). It is also the dominant pattern in historical IE societies, and matrilocality would be unlikely in a patrilineal society.\n\nInferences have been made for sacral kingship, suggesting the tribal chief at the same time assumed the role of high priest. Georges Dumézil suggested for Proto-Indo-European society a threefold division of a clerical class, a warrior class and a class of farmers or husbandmen, on his interpretations that many historically known groups speaking Indo-European languages show such a division, but Dumézil's approach has been widely criticised.\n\nIf there was a separate class of warriors, it probably consisted of single young men. They would have followed a separate warrior code unacceptable in the society outside their peer-group. Traces of initiation rites in several Indo-European societies (e.g. early Slav, Volcae, Neuri and their lupine ritualism) suggest that this group identified itself with wolves or dogs (see Berserker, Werewolf, Wild Hunt).\n\nThe people were organized in settlements (; Sanskrit \"viś\", Polish \"wieś\" \"village\"; Ancient Greek \"woikos\" \"home\"; Latin \"vicus\"), probably each with its chief (—Sanskrit \"rājan\", Latin \"rex\", \"reg-\", Gaulish \"-riks\"). These settlements or villages were further divided in households (; Latin \"domus\", Polish \"dom\"), each headed by a patriarch (; Ancient Greek , Sanskrit , Polish \"pan domu\").\n\nTechnologically, linguistic reconstruction suggests a culture of the Bronze Age: words for bronze can be reconstructed () from Germanic, Italic and Indo-Iranian, while no word for iron can be dated to the proto-language. Gold and silver were known.\n\nAn (Vedic Sanskrit \"así\", Latin \"ensis\") was a bladed weapon, originally a dagger of bronze or (in earliest times) of bone. An was a spear or similar pointed weapon. Words for axe include (Germanic, Greek, Italic) and (Vedic Sanskrit \"paraśú\", Greek \"pélekus\"); these could have been either of stone or of bronze.\n\nThe wheel ( – Vedic Sanskrit \"cakrá\", Greek \"kúklos\", Old English \"hweol\", Serbo-Croatian \"kolo\"; or – Vedic Sanskrit \"rathá\", German \"Rad\", Latin \"rota\") was known, certainly for ox-drawn carts. The wheel was probably not invented by the Proto-Indo-Europeans, but the word is a native derivation of the root \"to turn\" rather than a borrowing, suggesting that the PIE speakers' contact with the people who introduced the wheel to them was short. Horse-drawn chariots developed after the breakup of the proto-language, originating with the Proto-Indo-Iranians around 2000 BC.\n\nJudging by the vocabulary, techniques of weaving, plaiting, tying knots etc. were important and well-developed and used for textile production as well as for baskets, fences, walls etc.\n\nProto-Indo-European society depended on animal husbandry. People valued cattle ( – Vedic Sanskrit \"páśu\", Latin \"pecu-\" – Sanskrit \"go\", Latin \"bo-\") as their most important animals, measuring a man's wealth by the number of cows he owned (Latin \"pecunia\" 'money' from \"pecus\"). Sheep () and goats () were also kept, presumably by the less wealthy. Agriculture and catching fish () also featured. \n\nThe domestication of the horse ( – Vedic Sanskrit \"áśvas\", Latin \"equus\", Greek \"hippos\") (see Tarpan) may have originated with these peoples: scholars sometimes invoke this as a factor contributing to their rapid expansion.\n\nThey practiced a polytheistic religion centered on sacrificial rites, probably administered by a class of priests or shamans.\n\nAnimals were slaughtered () and dedicated to the gods () in the hope of winning their favour. The king as the high priest would have been the central figure in establishing favourable relations with the other world.\n\nThe Kurgan hypothesis suggests burials in barrows or tomb chambers. Important leaders would have been buried with their belongings, and possibly also with members of their household or wives (sati). The practice of human sacrifice is inferred from the Luhansk sacrificial site.\n\nThe use of two-word compound words for personal names, typically but not always ascribing some noble or heroic feat to their bearer, is so common in Indo-European languages that it seems certainly inherited. These names are often of the class of compound words that in Sanskrit are called \"bahuvrihi\" compounds.\n\nThey are found in the Celtic region (\"Dumnorix\": \"king of the world\"), in Indo-Aryan (\"Asvaghosa\": \"tamer of horses\"); in Iranian (\"Vishtaspa\": \"possessing horses untied (for racing)\"); in Hellenic (\"Socrates\": \"good ruler\"); in Slavic (\"Vladimir\": \"ruler of the world\"); in Germanic (\"Godgifu\": \"gift of God\"), and in Anatolian (Piyama-Radu: \"gift of the devotee?\").\n\nPatronymics such as \"Gustafsson\" (\"son of Gustaf\"), \"Rostamzadeh\" (\"son of Rostam\"), \"Yusufzai\" (\"son of Yusuf\"), \"Hakopian\" (\"son of Hakop\"), and \"MacDòmhnaill\" (\"son of Donald\") are also frequently encountered in Indo-European languages.\n\nSome words connected with PIE world-view:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26197", "title": "Radiocarbon dating", "text": "Radiocarbon dating\n\nRadiocarbon dating (also referred to as carbon dating or carbon-14 dating) is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon, a radioactive isotope of carbon.\n\nThe method was developed in the late 1940s by Willard Libby, who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work in 1960. It is based on the fact that radiocarbon () is constantly being created in the atmosphere by the interaction of cosmic rays with atmospheric nitrogen. The resulting combines with atmospheric oxygen to form radioactive carbon dioxide, which is incorporated into plants by photosynthesis; animals then acquire by eating the plants. When the animal or plant dies, it stops exchanging carbon with its environment, and from that point onwards the amount of it contains begins to decrease as the undergoes radioactive decay. Measuring the amount of in a sample from a dead plant or animal such as a piece of wood or a fragment of bone provides information that can be used to calculate when the animal or plant died. The older a sample is, the less there is to be detected, and because the half-life of (the period of time after which half of a given sample will have decayed) is about 5,730 years, the oldest dates that can be reliably measured by this process date to around 50,000 years ago, although special preparation methods occasionally permit accurate analysis of older samples.\n\nResearch has been ongoing since the 1960s to determine what the proportion of in the atmosphere has been over the past fifty thousand years. The resulting data, in the form of a calibration curve, is now used to convert a given measurement of radiocarbon in a sample into an estimate of the sample's calendar age. Other corrections must be made to account for the proportion of in different types of organisms (fractionation), and the varying levels of throughout the biosphere (reservoir effects). Additional complications come from the burning of fossil fuels such as coal and oil, and from the above-ground nuclear tests done in the 1950s and 1960s. Because the time it takes to convert biological materials to fossil fuels is substantially longer than the time it takes for its to decay below detectable levels, fossil fuels contain almost no , and as a result there was a noticeable drop in the proportion of in the atmosphere beginning in the late 19th century. Conversely, nuclear testing increased the amount of in the atmosphere, which attained a maximum in about 1965 of almost twice what it had been before the testing began.\n\nMeasurement of radiocarbon was originally done by beta-counting devices, which counted the amount of beta radiation emitted by decaying atoms in a sample. More recently, accelerator mass spectrometry has become the method of choice; it counts all the atoms in the sample and not just the few that happen to decay during the measurements; it can therefore be used with much smaller samples (as small as individual plant seeds), and gives results much more quickly. The development of radiocarbon dating has had a profound impact on archaeology. In addition to permitting more accurate dating within archaeological sites than previous methods, it allows comparison of dates of events across great distances. Histories of archaeology often refer to its impact as the \"radiocarbon revolution\". Radiocarbon dating has allowed key transitions in prehistory to be dated, such as the end of the last ice age, and the beginning of the Neolithic and Bronze Age in different regions.\n\nIn 1939, Martin Kamen and Samuel Ruben of the Radiation Laboratory at Berkeley began experiments to determine if any of the elements common in organic matter had isotopes with half-lives long enough to be of value in biomedical research. They synthesized using the laboratory's cyclotron accelerator and soon discovered that the atom's half-life was far longer than had been previously thought. This was followed by a prediction by Serge A. Korff, then employed at the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, that the interaction of thermal neutrons with in the upper atmosphere would create . It had previously been thought that would be more likely to be created by deuterons interacting with . At some time during World War II, Willard Libby, who was then at Berkeley, learned of Korff's research and conceived the idea that it might be possible to use radiocarbon for dating.\n\nIn 1945, Libby moved to the University of Chicago where he began his work on radiocarbon dating. He published a paper in 1946 in which he proposed that the carbon in living matter might include as well as non-radioactive carbon. Libby and several collaborators proceeded to experiment with methane collected from sewage works in Baltimore, and after isotopically enriching their samples they were able to demonstrate that they contained . By contrast, methane created from petroleum showed no radiocarbon activity because of its age. The results were summarized in a paper in \"Science\" in 1947, in which the authors commented that their results implied it would be possible to date materials containing carbon of organic origin.\n\nLibby and James Arnold proceeded to test the radiocarbon dating theory by analyzing samples with known ages. For example, two samples taken from the tombs of two Egyptian kings, Zoser and Sneferu, independently dated to 2625 BC plus or minus 75 years, were dated by radiocarbon measurement to an average of 2800 BC plus or minus 250 years. These results were published in \"Science\" in 1949. Within 11 years of their announcement, more than 20 radiocarbon dating laboratories had been set up worldwide. In 1960, Libby was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this work.\n\nIn nature, carbon exists as two stable, nonradioactive isotopes: carbon-12 (), and carbon-13 (), and a radioactive isotope, carbon-14 (), also known as \"radiocarbon\". The half-life of (the time it takes for half of a given amount of to decay) is about 5,730 years, so its concentration in the atmosphere might be expected to reduce over thousands of years, but is constantly being produced in the lower stratosphere and upper troposphere, primarily by galactic cosmic rays, and to a lesser degree by solar cosmic rays. These generate neutrons that in turn create when they strike nitrogen-14 () atoms. The following nuclear reaction is the main pathway by which is created:\nwhere n represents a neutron and p represents a proton.\n\nOnce produced, the quickly combines with the oxygen in the atmosphere to form first carbon monoxide (), and ultimately carbon dioxide ().\n\nCarbon dioxide produced in this way diffuses in the atmosphere, is dissolved in the ocean, and is taken up by plants via photosynthesis. Animals eat the plants, and ultimately the radiocarbon is distributed throughout the biosphere. The ratio of to is approximately 1.25 parts of to 10 parts of . In addition, about 1% of the carbon atoms are of the stable isotope .\n\nThe equation for the radioactive decay of is:\nBy emitting a beta particle (an electron, e) and an electron antineutrino (), one of the neutrons in the nucleus changes to a proton and the nucleus reverts to the stable (non-radioactive) isotope .\n\nDuring its life, a plant or animal is in equilibrium with its surroundings by exchanging carbon either with the atmosphere, or through its diet. It will therefore have the same proportion of as the atmosphere, or in the case of marine animals or plants, with the ocean. Once it dies, it ceases to acquire , but the within its biological material at that time will continue to decay, and so the ratio of to in its remains will gradually decrease. Because decays at a known rate, the proportion of radiocarbon can be used to determine how long it has been since a given sample stopped exchanging carbon – the older the sample, the less will be left.\n\nThe equation governing the decay of a radioactive isotope is:\nwhere \"N\" is the number of atoms of the isotope in the original sample (at time \"t\" = 0, when the organism from which the sample was taken died), and \"N\" is the number of atoms left after time \"t\". \"λ\" is a constant that depends on the particular isotope; for a given isotope it is equal to the reciprocal of the mean-life – i.e. the average or expected time a given atom will survive before undergoing radioactive decay. The mean-life, denoted by \"τ\", of is 8,267 years, so the equation above can be rewritten as:\nThe sample is assumed to have originally had the same / ratio as the ratio in the atmosphere, and since the size of the sample is known, the total number of atoms in the sample can be calculated, yielding \"N\", the number of atoms in the original sample. Measurement of \"N\", the number of atoms currently in the sample, allows the calculation of \"t\", the age of the sample, using the equation above.\n\nThe half-life of a radioactive isotope (usually denoted by t) is a more familiar concept than the mean-life, so although the equations above are expressed in terms of the mean-life, it is more usual to quote the value of 's half-life than its mean-life. The currently accepted value for the half-life of is 5,730 ± 40 years. This means that after 5,730 years, only half of the initial will remain; a quarter will remain after 11,460 years; an eighth after 17,190 years; and so on.\n\nThe above calculations make several assumptions, such as that the level of in the atmosphere has remained constant over time. In fact, the level of in the atmosphere has varied significantly and as a result the values provided by the equation above have to be corrected by using data from other sources. This is done by calibration curves (discussed below), which convert a measurement of in a sample into an estimated calendar age. The calculations involve several steps and include an intermediate value called the \"radiocarbon age\", which is the age in \"radiocarbon years\" of the sample: an age quoted in radiocarbon years means that no calibration curve has been used − the calculations for radiocarbon years assume that the atmospheric / ratio has not changed over time.\n\nCalculating radiocarbon ages also requires the value of the half-life for . In Libby's 1949 paper he used a value of 5720 ± 47 years, based on research by Engelkemeir et al. This was remarkably close to the modern value, but shortly afterwards the accepted value was revised to 5568 ± 30 years, and this value was in use for more than a decade. It was revised again in the early 1960s to 5,730 ± 40 years, which meant that many calculated dates in papers published prior to this were incorrect (the error in the half-life is about 3%). For consistency with these early papers, it was agreed at the 1962 Radiocarbon Conference in Cambridge (UK) to use the “Libby half-life” of 5568 years. Radiocarbon ages are still calculated using this half-life, and are known as \"Conventional Radiocarbon Age\". Since the calibration curve (IntCal) also reports past atmospheric concentration using this conventional age, any conventional ages calibrated against the IntCal curve will produce a correct calibrated age. When a date is quoted, the reader should be aware that if it is an uncalibrated date (a term used for dates given in radiocarbon years) it may differ substantially from the best estimate of the actual calendar date, both because it uses the wrong value for the half-life of , and because no correction (calibration) has been applied for the historical variation of in the atmosphere over time.\n\nCarbon is distributed throughout the atmosphere, the biosphere, and the oceans; these are referred to collectively as the carbon exchange reservoir, and each component is also referred to individually as a carbon exchange reservoir. The different elements of the carbon exchange reservoir vary in how much carbon they store, and in how long it takes for the generated by cosmic rays to fully mix with them. This affects the ratio of to in the different reservoirs, and hence the radiocarbon ages of samples that originated in each reservoir. The atmosphere, which is where is generated, contains about 1.9% of the total carbon in the reservoirs, and the it contains mixes in less than seven years. The ratio of to in the atmosphere is taken as the baseline for the other reservoirs: if another reservoir has a lower ratio of to , it indicates that the carbon is older and hence that either some of the has decayed, or the reservoir is receiving carbon that is not at the atmospheric baseline. The ocean surface is an example: it contains 2.4% of the carbon in the exchange reservoir, but there is only about 95% as much as would be expected if the ratio were the same as in the atmosphere. The time it takes for carbon from the atmosphere to mix with the surface ocean is only a few years, but the surface waters also receive water from the deep ocean, which has more than 90% of the carbon in the reservoir. Water in the deep ocean takes about 1,000 years to circulate back through surface waters, and so the surface waters contain a combination of older water, with depleted , and water recently at the surface, with in equilibrium with the atmosphere.\n\nCreatures living at the ocean surface have the same ratios as the water they live in, and as a result of the reduced / ratio, the radiocarbon age of marine life is typically about 400 years. Organisms on land are in closer equilibrium with the atmosphere and have the same / ratio as the atmosphere. These organisms contain about 1.3% of the carbon in the reservoir; sea organisms have a mass of less than 1% of those on land and are not shown on the diagram. Accumulated dead organic matter, of both plants and animals, exceeds the mass of the biosphere by a factor of nearly 3, and since this matter is no longer exchanging carbon with its environment, it has a / ratio lower than that of the biosphere.\n\nThe variation in the / ratio in different parts of the carbon exchange reservoir means that a straightforward calculation of the age of a sample based on the amount of it contains will often give an incorrect result. There are several other possible sources of error that need to be considered. The errors are of four general types:\n\nIn the early years of using the technique, it was understood that it depended on the atmospheric / ratio having remained the same over the preceding few thousand years. To verify the accuracy of the method, several artefacts that were datable by other techniques were tested; the results of the testing were in reasonable agreement with the true ages of the objects. Over time, however, discrepancies began to appear between the known chronology for the oldest Egyptian dynasties and the radiocarbon dates of Egyptian artefacts. Neither the pre-existing Egyptian chronology nor the new radiocarbon dating method could be assumed to be accurate, but a third possibility was that the / ratio had changed over time. The question was resolved by the study of tree rings: comparison of overlapping series of tree rings allowed the construction of a continuous sequence of tree-ring data that spanned 8,000 years. (Since that time the tree-ring data series has been extended to 13,900 years.) In the 1960s, Hans Suess was able to use the tree-ring sequence to show that the dates derived from radiocarbon were consistent with the dates assigned by Egyptologists. This was possible because although annual plants, such as corn, have a / ratio that reflects the atmospheric ratio at the time they were growing, trees only add material to their outermost tree ring in any given year, while the inner tree rings don't get their replenished and instead start losing through decay. Hence each ring preserves a record of the atmospheric / ratio of the year it grew in. Carbon-dating the wood from the tree rings themselves provides the check needed on the atmospheric / ratio: with a sample of known date, and a measurement of the value of \"N\" (the number of atoms of remaining in the sample), the carbon-dating equation allows the calculation of \"N\" – the number of atoms of in the sample at the time the tree ring was formed – and hence the / ratio in the atmosphere at that time. Equipped with the results of carbon-dating the tree rings, it became possible to construct calibration curves designed to correct the errors caused by the variation over time in the / ratio. These curves are described in more detail below.\n\nCoal and oil began to be burned in large quantities during the 19th century. Both are sufficiently old that they contain little or no detectable and, as a result, the released substantially diluted the atmospheric / ratio. Dating an object from the early 20th century hence gives an apparent date older than the true date. For the same reason, concentrations in the neighbourhood of large cities are lower than the atmospheric average. This fossil fuel effect (also known as the Suess effect, after Hans Suess, who first reported it in 1955) would only amount to a reduction of 0.2% in activity if the additional carbon from fossil fuels were distributed throughout the carbon exchange reservoir, but because of the long delay in mixing with the deep ocean, the actual effect is a 3% reduction.\n\nA much larger effect comes from above-ground nuclear testing, which released large numbers of neutrons and created . From about 1950 until 1963, when atmospheric nuclear testing was banned, it is estimated that several tonnes of were created. If all this extra had immediately been spread across the entire carbon exchange reservoir, it would have led to an increase in the / ratio of only a few per cent, but the immediate effect was to almost double the amount of in the atmosphere, with the peak level occurring in 1964 for the northern hemisphere, and in 1966 for the southern hemisphere. The level has since dropped, as this bomb pulse or \"bomb carbon\" (as it is sometimes called) percolates into the rest of the reservoir.\n\nPhotosynthesis is the primary process by which carbon moves from the atmosphere into living things. In photosynthetic pathways is absorbed slightly more easily than , which in turn is more easily absorbed than . The differential uptake of the three carbon isotopes leads to / and / ratios in plants that differ from the ratios in the atmosphere. This effect is known as isotopic fractionation.\n\nTo determine the degree of fractionation that takes place in a given plant, the amounts of both and isotopes are measured, and the resulting / ratio is then compared to a standard ratio known as PDB. The / ratio is used instead of / because the former is much easier to measure, and the latter can be easily derived: the depletion of relative to is proportional to the difference in the atomic masses of the two isotopes, so the depletion for is twice the depletion of . The fractionation of , known as , is calculated as follows:\n\nwhere the ‰ sign indicates parts per thousand. Because the PDB standard contains an unusually high proportion of , most measured values are negative.\n\nFor marine organisms, the details of the photosynthesis reactions are less well understood, and the values for marine photosynthetic organisms are dependent on temperature. At higher temperatures, has poor solubility in water, which means there is less available for the photosynthetic reactions. Under these conditions, fractionation is reduced, and at temperatures above 14 °C the values are correspondingly higher, while at lower temperatures, becomes more soluble and hence more available to marine organisms. The value for animals depends on their diet. An animal that eats food with high values will have a higher than one that eats food with lower values. The animal's own biochemical processes can also impact the results: for example, both bone minerals and bone collagen typically have a higher concentration of than is found in the animal's diet, though for different biochemical reasons. The enrichment of bone also implies that excreted material is depleted in relative to the diet.\n\nSince makes up about 1% of the carbon in a sample, the / ratio can be accurately measured by mass spectrometry. Typical values of have been found by experiment for many plants, as well as for different parts of animals such as bone collagen, but when dating a given sample it is better to determine the value for that sample directly than to rely on the published values.\n\nThe carbon exchange between atmospheric and carbonate at the ocean surface is also subject to fractionation, with in the atmosphere more likely than to dissolve in the ocean. The result is an overall increase in the / ratio in the ocean of 1.5%, relative to the / ratio in the atmosphere. This increase in concentration almost exactly cancels out the decrease caused by the upwelling of water (containing old, and hence depleted, carbon) from the deep ocean, so that direct measurements of radiation are similar to measurements for the rest of the biosphere. Correcting for isotopic fractionation, as is done for all radiocarbon dates to allow comparison between results from different parts of the biosphere, gives an apparent age of about 400 years for ocean surface water.\n\nLibby's original exchange reservoir hypothesis assumed that the / ratio in the exchange reservoir is constant all over the world, but it has since been discovered that there are several causes of variation in the ratio across the reservoir.\n\nMarine effect\n\nThe in the atmosphere transfers to the ocean by dissolving in the surface water as carbonate and bicarbonate ions; at the same time the carbonate ions in the water are returning to the air as . This exchange process brings from the atmosphere into the surface waters of the ocean, but the thus introduced takes a long time to percolate through the entire volume of the ocean. The deepest parts of the ocean mix very slowly with the surface waters, and the mixing is uneven. The main mechanism that brings deep water to the surface is upwelling, which is more common in regions closer to the equator. Upwelling is also influenced by factors such as the topography of the local ocean bottom and coastlines, the climate, and wind patterns. Overall, the mixing of deep and surface waters takes far longer than the mixing of atmospheric with the surface waters, and as a result water from some deep ocean areas has an apparent radiocarbon age of several thousand years. Upwelling mixes this \"old\" water with the surface water, giving the surface water an apparent age of about several hundred years (after correcting for fractionation). This effect is not uniform – the average effect is about 400 years, but there are local deviations of several hundred years for areas that are geographically close to each other. These deviations can be accounted for in calibration, and users of software such as CALIB can provide as an input the appropriate correction for the location of their samples. The effect also applies to marine organisms such as shells, and marine mammals such as whales and seals, which have radiocarbon ages that appear to be hundreds of years old.\n\nHemisphere effect\n\nThe northern and southern hemispheres have atmospheric circulation systems that are sufficiently independent of each other that there is a noticeable time lag in mixing between the two. The atmospheric / ratio is lower in the southern hemisphere, with an apparent additional age of about 40 years for radiocarbon results from the south as compared to the north. This is because the greater surface area of ocean in the southern hemisphere means that there is more carbon exchanged between the ocean and the atmosphere than in the north. Since the surface ocean is depleted in because of the marine effect, is removed from the southern atmosphere more quickly than in the north. The effect is strengthened by strong upwelling around Antarctica.\n\nOther effects\n\nIf the carbon in freshwater is partly acquired from aged carbon, such as rocks, then the result will be a reduction in the / ratio in the water. For example, rivers that pass over limestone, which is mostly composed of calcium carbonate, will acquire carbonate ions. Similarly, groundwater can contain carbon derived from the rocks through which it has passed. These rocks are usually so old that they no longer contain any measurable , so this carbon lowers the / ratio of the water it enters, which can lead to apparent ages of thousands of years for both the affected water and the plants and freshwater organisms that live in it. This is known as the hard water effect because it is often associated with calcium ions, which are characteristic of hard water; other sources of carbon such as humus can produce similar results, and can also reduce the apparent age if they are of more recent origin than the sample. The effect varies greatly and there is no general offset that can be applied; additional research is usually needed to determine the size of the offset, for example by comparing the radiocarbon age of deposited freshwater shells with associated organic material.\n\nVolcanic eruptions eject large amounts of carbon into the air. The carbon is of geological origin and has no detectable , so the / ratio in the vicinity of the volcano is depressed relative to surrounding areas. Dormant volcanoes can also emit aged carbon. Plants that photosynthesize this carbon also have lower / ratios: for example, plants in the neighbourhood of the Furnas caldera in the Azores were found to have apparent ages that ranged from 250 years to 3320 years.\n\nAny addition of carbon to a sample of a different age will cause the measured date to be inaccurate. Contamination with modern carbon causes a sample to appear to be younger than it really is: the effect is greater for older samples. If a sample that is 17,000 years old is contaminated so that 1% of the sample is modern carbon, it will appear to be 600 years younger; for a sample that is 34,000 years old the same amount of contamination would cause an error of 4,000 years. Contamination with old carbon, with no remaining , causes an error in the other direction independent of age – a sample contaminated with 1% old carbon will appear to be about 80 years older than it really is, regardless of the date of the sample.\n\nSamples for dating need to be converted into a form suitable for measuring the content; this can mean conversion to gaseous, liquid, or solid form, depending on the measurement technique to be used. Before this can be done, the sample must be treated to remove any contamination and any unwanted constituents. This includes removing visible contaminants, such as rootlets that may have penetrated the sample since its burial. Alkali and acid washes can be used to remove humic acid and carbonate contamination, but care has to be taken to avoid removing the part of the sample that contains the carbon to be tested.\n\n\nParticularly for older samples, it may be useful to enrich the amount of in the sample before testing. This can be done with a thermal diffusion column. The process takes about a month and requires a sample about ten times as large as would be needed otherwise, but it allows more precise measurement of the / ratio in old material and extends the maximum age that can be reliably reported.\n\nOnce contamination has been removed, samples must be converted to a form suitable for the measuring technology to be used. Where gas is required, is widely used. For samples to be used in liquid scintillation counters, the carbon must be in liquid form; the sample is typically converted to benzene. For accelerator mass spectrometry, solid graphite targets are the most common, although gaseous can also be used.\n\nThe quantity of material needed for testing depends on the sample type and the technology being used. There are two types of testing technology: detectors that record radioactivity, known as beta counters, and accelerator mass spectrometers. For beta counters, a sample weighing at least is typically required. Accelerator mass spectrometry is much more sensitive, and samples containing as little as 0.5 milligrams of carbon can be used.\n\nFor decades after Libby performed the first radiocarbon dating experiments, the only way to measure the in a sample was to detect the radioactive decay of individual carbon atoms. In this approach, what is measured is the activity, in number of decay events per unit mass per time period, of the sample. This method is also known as \"beta counting\", because it is the beta particles emitted by the decaying atoms that are detected. In the late 1970s an alternative approach became available: directly counting the number of and atoms in a given sample, via accelerator mass spectrometry, usually referred to as AMS. AMS counts the / ratio directly, instead of the activity of the sample, but measurements of activity and / ratio can be converted into each other exactly. For some time, beta counting methods were more accurate than AMS, but AMS is now more accurate and has become the method of choice for radiocarbon measurements. In addition to improved accuracy, AMS has two further significant advantages over beta counting: it can perform accurate testing on samples much too small for beta counting; and it is much faster – an accuracy of 1% can be achieved in minutes with AMS, which is far quicker than would be achievable with the older technology.\n\nLibby's first detector was a Geiger counter of his own design. He converted the carbon in his sample to lamp black (soot) and coated the inner surface of a cylinder with it. This cylinder was inserted into the counter in such a way that the counting wire was inside the sample cylinder, in order that there should be no material between the sample and the wire. Any interposing material would have interfered with the detection of radioactivity, since the beta particles emitted by decaying are so weak that half are stopped by a 0.01 mm thickness of aluminium.\n\nLibby's method was soon superseded by gas proportional counters, which were less affected by bomb carbon (the additional created by nuclear weapons testing). These counters record bursts of ionization caused by the beta particles emitted by the decaying atoms; the bursts are proportional to the energy of the particle, so other sources of ionization, such as background radiation, can be identified and ignored. The counters are surrounded by lead or steel shielding, to eliminate background radiation and to reduce the incidence of cosmic rays. In addition, anticoincidence detectors are used; these record events outside the counter, and any event recorded simultaneously both inside and outside the counter is regarded as an extraneous event and ignored.\n\nThe other common technology used for measuring activity is liquid scintillation counting, which was invented in 1950, but which had to wait until the early 1960s, when efficient methods of benzene synthesis were developed, to become competitive with gas counting; after 1970 liquid counters became the more common technology choice for newly constructed dating laboratories. The counters work by detecting flashes of light caused by the beta particles emitted by as they interact with a fluorescing agent added to the benzene. Like gas counters, liquid scintillation counters require shielding and anticoincidence counters.\n\nFor both the gas proportional counter and liquid scintillation counter, what is measured is the number of beta particles detected in a given time period. Since the mass of the sample is known, this can be converted to a standard measure of activity in units of either counts per minute per gram of carbon (cpm/g C), or becquerels per kg (Bq/kg C, in SI units). Each measuring device is also used to measure the activity of a blank sample – a sample prepared from carbon old enough to have no activity. This provides a value for the background radiation, which must be subtracted from the measured activity of the sample being dated to get the activity attributable solely to that sample's . In addition, a sample with a standard activity is measured, to provide a baseline for comparison.\n\nAMS counts the atoms of and in a given sample, determining the / ratio directly. The sample, often in the form of graphite, is made to emit C ions (carbon atoms with a single negative charge), which are injected into an accelerator. The ions are accelerated and passed through a stripper, which removes several electrons so that the ions emerge with a positive charge. The ions, which may have from 1 to 4 positive charges (C to C), depending on the accelerator design, are then passed through a magnet that curves their path; the heavier ions are curved less than the lighter ones, so the different isotopes emerge as separate streams of ions. A particle detector then records the number of ions detected in the stream, but since the volume of (and , needed for calibration) is too great for individual ion detection, counts are determined by measuring the electric current created in a Faraday cup. The large positive charge induced by the stripper forces molecules such as , which has a weight close enough to to interfere with the measurements, to dissociate, so they are not detected. Most AMS machines also measure the sample's , for use in calculating the sample's radiocarbon age. The use of AMS, as opposed to simpler forms of mass spectrometry, is necessary because of the need to distinguish the carbon isotopes from other atoms or molecules that are very close in mass, such as and . As with beta counting, both blank samples and standard samples are used. Two different kinds of blank may be measured: a sample of dead carbon that has undergone no chemical processing, to detect any machine background, and a sample known as a process blank made from dead carbon that is processed into target material in exactly the same way as the sample which is being dated. Any signal from the machine background blank is likely to be caused either by beams of ions that have not followed the expected path inside the detector, or by carbon hydrides such as or . A signal from the process blank measures the amount of contamination introduced during the preparation of the sample. These measurements are used in the subsequent calculation of the age of the sample.\n\nThe calculations to be performed on the measurements taken depend on the technology used, since beta counters measure the sample's radioactivity whereas AMS determines the ratio of the three different carbon isotopes in the sample.\n\nTo determine the age of a sample whose activity has been measured by beta counting, the ratio of its activity to the activity of the standard must be found. To determine this, a blank sample (of old, or dead, carbon) is measured, and a sample of known activity is measured. The additional samples allow errors such as background radiation and systematic errors in the laboratory setup to be detected and corrected for. The most common standard sample material is oxalic acid, such as the HOxII standard, 1,000 lb of which was prepared by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in 1977 from French beet harvests.\n\nThe results from AMS testing are in the form of ratios of , , and , which are used to calculate Fm, the \"fraction modern\". This is defined as the ratio between the / ratio in the sample and the / ratio in modern carbon, which is in turn defined as the / ratio that would have been measured in 1950 had there been no fossil fuel effect.\n\nBoth beta counting and AMS results have to be corrected for fractionation. This is necessary because different materials of the same age, which because of fractionation have naturally different / ratios, will appear to be of different ages because the / ratio is taken as the indicator of age. To avoid this, all radiocarbon measurements are converted to the measurement that would have been seen had the sample been made of wood, which has a known δ value of −25‰.\n\nOnce the corrected / ratio is known, a \"radiocarbon age\" is calculated using:\n\nThe calculation uses 8,033, the mean-life derived from Libby's half-life of 5,568 years, not 8,267, the mean-life derived from the more accurate modern value of 5,730 years. Libby’s value for the half-life is used to maintain consistency with early radiocarbon testing results; calibration curves include a correction for this, so the accuracy of final reported calendar ages is assured.\n\nThe reliability of the results can be improved by lengthening the testing time. For example, if counting beta decays for 250 minutes is enough to give an error of ± 80 years, with 68% confidence, then doubling the counting time to 500 minutes will allow a sample with only half as much to be measured with the same error term of 80 years.\n\nRadiocarbon dating is generally limited to dating samples no more than 50,000 years old, as samples older than that have insufficient to be measurable. Older dates have been obtained by using special sample preparation techniques, large samples, and very long measurement times. These techniques can allow measurement of dates up to 60,000 and in some cases up to 75,000 years before the present.\n\nRadiocarbon dates are generally presented with a range of one standard deviation (usually represented by the Greek letter sigma as 1σ) on either side of the mean. However, a date range of 1σ represents only 68% confidence level, so the true age of the object being measured may lie outside the range of dates quoted. This was demonstrated in 1970 by an experiment run by the British Museum radiocarbon laboratory, in which weekly measurements were taken on the same sample for six months. The results varied widely (though consistently with a normal distribution of errors in the measurements), and included multiple date ranges (of 1σ confidence) that did not overlap with each other. The measurements included one with a range from about 4250 to about 4390 years ago, and another with a range from about 4520 to about 4690.\n\nErrors in procedure can also lead to errors in the results. If 1% of the benzene in a modern reference sample accidentally evaporates, scintillation counting will give a radiocarbon age that is too young by about 80 years.\n\nThe calculations given above produce dates in radiocarbon years: i.e. dates that represent the age the sample would be if the / ratio had been constant historically. Although Libby had pointed out as early as 1955 the possibility that this assumption was incorrect, it was not until discrepancies began to accumulate between measured ages and known historical dates for artefacts that it became clear that a correction would need to be applied to radiocarbon ages to obtain calendar dates.\n\nTo produce a curve that can be used to relate calendar years to radiocarbon years, a sequence of securely dated samples is needed which can be tested to determine their radiocarbon age. The study of tree rings led to the first such sequence: individual pieces of wood show characteristic sequences of rings that vary in thickness because of environmental factors such as the amount of rainfall in a given year. These factors affect all trees in an area, so examining tree-ring sequences from old wood allows the identification of overlapping sequences. In this way, an uninterrupted sequence of tree rings can be extended far into the past. The first such published sequence, based on bristlecone pine tree rings, was created by Wesley Ferguson. Hans Suess used this data to publish the first calibration curve for radiocarbon dating in 1967. The curve showed two types of variation from the straight line: a long term fluctuation with a period of about 9,000 years, and a shorter term variation, often referred to as \"wiggles\", with a period of decades. Suess said he drew the line showing the wiggles by \"cosmic \"schwung\"\", by which he meant that the variations were caused by extraterrestrial forces. It was unclear for some time whether the wiggles were real or not, but they are now well-established. These short term fluctuations in the calibration curve are now known as de Vries effects, after Hessel de Vries.\n\nA calibration curve is used by taking the radiocarbon date reported by a laboratory, and reading across from that date on the vertical axis of the graph. The point where this horizontal line intersects the curve will give the calendar age of the sample on the horizontal axis. This is the reverse of the way the curve is constructed: a point on the graph is derived from a sample of known age, such as a tree ring; when it is tested, the resulting radiocarbon age gives a data point for the graph.Over the next thirty years many calibration curves were published using a variety of methods and statistical approaches. These were superseded by the INTCAL series of curves, beginning with INTCAL98, published in 1998, and updated in 2004, 2009, and 2013. The improvements to these curves are based on new data gathered from tree rings, varves, coral, plant macrofossils, speleothems, and foraminifera. The INTCAL13 data includes separate curves for the northern and southern hemispheres, as they differ systematically because of the hemisphere effect. The southern curve (SHCAL13) is based on independent data where possible, and derived from the northern curve by adding the average offset for the southern hemisphere where no direct data was available. There is also a separate marine calibration curve, MARINE13. For a set of samples forming a sequence with a known separation in time, these samples form a subset of the calibration curve. The sequence can be compared to the calibration curve and the best match to the sequence established. This “wiggle-matching” technique can lead to more precise dating than is possible with individual radiocarbon dates. Wiggle-matching can be used in places where there is a plateau on the calibration curve, and hence can provide a much more accurate date than the intercept or probability methods are able to produce. The technique is not restricted to tree rings; for example, a stratified tephra sequence in New Zealand, known to predate human colonization of the islands, has been dated to 1314 AD ± 12 years by wiggle-matching. The wiggles also mean that reading a date from a calibration curve can give more than one answer: this occurs when the curve wiggles up and down enough that the radiocarbon age intercepts the curve in more than one place, which may lead to a radiocarbon result being reported as two separate age ranges, corresponding to the two parts of the curve that the radiocarbon age intercepted.\n\nBayesian statistical techniques can be applied when there are several radiocarbon dates to be calibrated. For example, if a series of radiocarbon dates is taken from different levels in a stratigraphic sequence, Bayesian analysis can be used to evaluate dates which are outliers, and can calculate improved probability distributions, based on the prior information that the sequence should be ordered in time. When Bayesian analysis was introduced, its use was limited by the need to use mainframe computers to perform the calculations, but the technique has since been implemented on programs available for personal computers, such as OxCal.\n\nSeveral formats for citing radiocarbon results have been used since the first samples were dated. As of 2014, the standard format required by the journal \"Radiocarbon\" is as follows.\n\nUncalibrated dates should be reported as \"<laboratory>: < year> ± <range> BP\", where:\n\nFor example, the uncalibrated date \"UtC-2020: 3510 ± 60 BP\" indicates that the sample was tested by the Utrecht van der Graaff Laboratorium, where it has a sample number of 2020, and that the uncalibrated age is 3510 years before present, ± 60 years. Related forms are sometimes used: for example, \"10 ka BP\" means 10,000 radiocarbon years before present (i.e. 8,050 BC), and yr BP might be used to distinguish the uncalibrated date from a date derived from another dating method such as thermoluminescence.\n\nCalibrated dates are frequently reported as cal BP, cal BC, or cal AD, again with BP referring to the year 1950 as the zero date. \"Radiocarbon\" gives two options for reporting calibrated dates. A common format is \"cal <date-range> <confidence>\", where:\n\nFor example, \"cal 1220–1281 AD (1σ)\" means a calibrated date for which the true date lies between 1220 AD and 1281 AD, with the confidence level given as 1σ, or one standard deviation. Calibrated dates can also be expressed as BP instead of using BC and AD. The curve used to calibrate the results should be the latest available INTCAL curve. Calibrated dates should also identify any programs, such as OxCal, used to perform the calibration. In addition, an article in \"Radiocarbon\" in 2014 about radiocarbon date reporting conventions recommends that information should be provided about sample treatment, including the sample material, pretreatment methods, and quality control measurements; that the citation to the software used for calibration should specify the version number and any options or models used; and that the calibrated date should be given with the associated probabilities for each range.\n\nA key concept in interpreting radiocarbon dates is archaeological association: what is the true relationship between two or more objects at an archaeological site? It frequently happens that a sample for radiocarbon dating can be taken directly from the object of interest, but there are also many cases where this is not possible. Metal grave goods, for example, cannot be radiocarbon dated, but they may be found in a grave with a coffin, charcoal, or other material which can be assumed to have been deposited at the same time. In these cases a date for the coffin or charcoal is indicative of the date of deposition of the grave goods, because of the direct functional relationship between the two. There are also cases where there is no functional relationship, but the association is reasonably strong: for example, a layer of charcoal in a rubbish pit provides a date which has a relationship to the rubbish pit.\n\nContamination is of particular concern when dating very old material obtained from archaeological excavations and great care is needed in the specimen selection and preparation. In 2014, Thomas Higham and co-workers suggested that many of the dates published for Neanderthal artefacts are too recent because of contamination by \"young carbon\".\n\nAs a tree grows, only the outermost tree ring exchanges carbon with its environment, so the age measured for a wood sample depends on where the sample is taken from. This means that radiocarbon dates on wood samples can be older than the date at which the tree was felled. In addition, if a piece of wood is used for multiple purposes, there may be a significant delay between the felling of the tree and the final use in the context in which it is found. This is often referred to as the \"old wood\" problem. One example is the Bronze Age trackway at Withy Bed Copse, in England; the trackway was built from wood that had clearly been worked for other purposes before being re-used in the trackway. Another example is driftwood, which may be used as construction material. It is not always possible to recognize re-use. Other materials can present the same problem: for example, bitumen is known to have been used by some Neolithic communities to waterproof baskets; the bitumen's radiocarbon age will be greater than is measurable by the laboratory, regardless of the actual age of the context, so testing the basket material will give a misleading age if care is not taken. A separate issue, related to re-use, is that of lengthy use, or delayed deposition. For example, a wooden object that remains in use for a lengthy period will have an apparent age greater than the actual age of the context in which it is deposited.\n\nArchaeology is not the only field to make use of radiocarbon dating. The ability to date minute samples using AMS has meant that palaeobotanists and palaeoclimatologists can use radiocarbon dating on pollen samples. Radiocarbon dates can also be used in geology, sedimentology, and lake studies, for example. Dates on organic material recovered from strata of interest can be used to correlate strata in different locations that appear to be similar on geological grounds. Dating material from one location gives date information about the other location, and the dates are also used to place strata in the overall geological timeline.\n\nThe Pleistocene is a geological epoch that began about 2.6 million years ago. The Holocene, the current geological epoch, begins about 11,700 years ago, when the Pleistocene ends. Establishing the date of this boundary − which is defined by sharp climatic warming − as accurately as possible has been a goal of geologists for much of the 20th century. At Two Creeks, in Wisconsin, a fossil forest was discovered (Two Creeks Buried Forest State Natural Area), and subsequent research determined that the destruction of the forest was caused by the Valders ice readvance, the last southward movement of ice before the end of the Pleistocene in that area. Before the advent of radiocarbon dating, the fossilized trees had been dated by correlating sequences of annually deposited layers of sediment at Two Creeks with sequences in Scandinavia. This led to estimates that the trees were between 24,000 and 19,000 years old, and hence this was taken to be the date of the last advance of the Wisconsin glaciation before its final retreat marked the end of the Pleistocene in North America. In 1952 Libby published radiocarbon dates for several samples from the Two Creeks site and two similar sites nearby; the dates were averaged to 11,404 BP with a standard error of 350 years. This result was uncalibrated, as the need for calibration of radiocarbon ages was not yet understood. Further results over the next decade supported an average date of 11,350 BP, with the results thought to be most accurate averaging 11,600 BP. There was initial resistance to these results on the part of Ernst Antevs, the palaeobotanist who had worked on the Scandinavian varve series, but his objections were eventually discounted by other geologists. In the 1990s samples were tested with AMS, yielding (uncalibrated) dates ranging from 11,640 BP to 11,800 BP, both with a standard error of 160 years. Subsequently, a sample from the fossil forest was used in an interlaboratory test, with results provided by over 70 laboratories. These tests produced a median age of 11,788 ± 8 BP (2σ confidence) which when calibrated gives a date range of 13,730 to 13,550 cal BP. The Two Creeks radiocarbon dates are now regarded as a key result in developing the modern understanding of North American glaciation at the end of the Pleistocene.\n\nIn 1947, scrolls were discovered in caves near the Dead Sea that proved to contain writing in Hebrew and Aramaic, most of which are thought to have been produced by the Essenes, a small Jewish sect. These scrolls are of great significance in the study of Biblical texts because many of them contain the earliest known version of books of the Hebrew bible. A sample of the linen wrapping from one of these scrolls, the Great Isaiah Scroll, was included in a 1955 analysis by Libby, with an estimated age of 1,917 ± 200 years. Based on an analysis of the writing style, palaeographic estimates were made of the age of 21 of the scrolls, and samples from most of these, along with other scrolls which had not been palaeographically dated, were tested by two AMS laboratories in the 1990s. The results ranged in age from the early 4th century BC to the mid 4th century AD. In all but two cases the scrolls were determined to be within 100 years of the palaeographically determined age. The Isaiah scroll was included in the testing and was found to have two possible date ranges at a 2σ confidence level, because of the shape of the calibration curve at that point: there is a 15% chance that it dates from 355–295 BC, and an 84% chance that it dates from 210–45 BC. Subsequently, these dates were criticized on the grounds that before the scrolls were tested, they had been treated with modern castor oil in order to make the writing easier to read; it was argued that failure to remove the castor oil sufficiently would have caused the dates to be too young. Multiple papers have been published both supporting and opposing the criticism.\n\nSoon after the publication of Libby's 1949 paper in \"Science\", universities around the world began establishing radiocarbon-dating laboratories, and by the end of the 1950s there were more than 20 active research laboratories. It quickly became apparent that the principles of radiocarbon dating were valid, despite certain discrepancies, the causes of which then remained unknown.\n\nThe development of radiocarbon dating has had a profound impact on archaeologyoften described as the \"radiocarbon revolution\". In the words of anthropologist R. E. Taylor, \" data made a \"world\" prehistory possible by contributing a time scale that transcends local, regional and continental boundaries\". It provides more accurate dating within sites than previous methods, which usually derived either from stratigraphy or from typologies (e.g. of stone tools or pottery); it also allows comparison and synchronization of events across great distances. The advent of radiocarbon dating may even have led to better field methods in archaeology, since better data recording leads to firmer association of objects with the samples to be tested. These improved field methods were sometimes motivated by attempts to prove that a date was incorrect. Taylor also suggests that the availability of definite date information freed archaeologists from the need to focus so much of their energy on determining the dates of their finds, and led to an expansion of the questions archaeologists were willing to research. For example, from the 1970s questions about the evolution of human behaviour were much more frequently seen in archaeology.\n\nThe dating framework provided by radiocarbon led to a change in the prevailing view of how innovations spread through prehistoric Europe. Researchers had previously thought that many ideas spread by diffusion through the continent, or by invasions of peoples bringing new cultural ideas with them. As radiocarbon dates began to prove these ideas wrong in many instances, it became apparent that these innovations must sometimes have arisen locally. This has been described as a \"second radiocarbon revolution\", and with regard to British prehistory, archaeologist Richard Atkinson has characterized the impact of radiocarbon dating as \"radical ... therapy\" for the \"progressive disease of invasionism\". More broadly, the success of radiocarbon dating stimulated interest in analytical and statistical approaches to archaeological data. Taylor has also described the impact of AMS, and the ability to obtain accurate measurements from very small samples, as ushering in a third radiocarbon revolution.\n\nOccasionally, radiocarbon dating techniques date an object of popular interest, for example the Shroud of Turin, a piece of linen cloth thought by some to bear an image of Jesus Christ after his crucifixion. Three separate laboratories dated samples of linen from the Shroud in 1988; the results pointed to 14th-century origins, raising doubts about the shroud's authenticity as an alleged 1st-century relic.\n\nResearchers have studied other radioactive isotopes created by cosmic rays to determine if they could also be used to assist in dating objects of archaeological interest; such isotopes include , , , , and . With the development of AMS in the 1980s it became possible to measure these isotopes precisely enough for them to be the basis of useful dating techniques, which have been primarily applied to dating rocks. Naturally occurring radioactive isotopes can also form the basis of dating methods, as with potassium–argon dating, argon–argon dating, and uranium series dating. Other dating techniques of interest to archaeologists include thermoluminescence, optically stimulated luminescence, electron spin resonance, and fission track dating, as well as techniques that depend on annual bands or layers, such as dendrochronology, tephrochronology, and varve chronology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26181", "title": "Ray Bradbury", "text": "Ray Bradbury\n\nRay Douglas Bradbury (; August 22, 1920June 5, 2012) was an American author and screenwriter. He worked in a variety of genres, including fantasy, science fiction, horror, and mystery fiction.\n\nWidely known for his dystopian novel \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1953), and his science-fiction and horror-story collections, \"The Martian Chronicles\" (1950), \"The Illustrated Man\" (1951), and \"I Sing the Body Electric\" (1969), Bradbury was one of the most celebrated 20th- and 21st-century American writers. While most of his best known work is in speculative fiction, he also wrote in other genres, such as the coming-of-age novel \"Dandelion Wine\" (1957) and the fictionalized memoir \"Green Shadows, White Whale\" (1992).\n\nRecipient of numerous awards, including a 2007 Pulitzer Citation, Bradbury also wrote and consulted on screenplays and television scripts, including \"Moby Dick\" and \"It Came from Outer Space\". Many of his works were adapted to comic book, television, and film formats.\n\nUpon his death in 2012, \"The New York Times\" called Bradbury \"the writer most responsible for bringing modern science fiction into the literary mainstream\".\n\nBradbury was born on August 22, 1920, in Waukegan, Illinois, to Esther (née Moberg) Bradbury (1888–1966), a Swedish immigrant, and Leonard Spaulding Bradbury (1890–1957), a power and telephone lineman of English ancestry. He was given the middle name \"Douglas\" after the actor Douglas Fairbanks. Bradbury was related to the American Shakespeare scholar Douglas Spaulding and descended from Mary Bradbury, who was tried at one of the Salem witch trials in 1692.\n\nBradbury was surrounded by an extended family during his early childhood and formative years in Waukegan. An aunt read him short stories when he was a child. This period provided foundations for both the author and his stories. In Bradbury's works of fiction, 1920s Waukegan becomes \"Green Town\", Illinois.\n\nThe Bradbury family lived in Tucson, Arizona, during 1926–1927 and 1932–1933 while their father pursued employment, each time returning to Waukegan. They eventually settled in Los Angeles in 1934 when Bradbury was 14 years old. The family arrived with only US$40, which paid for rent and food until his father finally found a job making wire at a cable company for $14 a week. This meant that they could stay, and Bradbury—who was in love with Hollywood—was ecstatic.\n\nBradbury attended Los Angeles High School and was active in the drama club. He often roller-skated through Hollywood in hopes of meeting celebrities. Among the creative and talented people Bradbury met were special-effects pioneer Ray Harryhausen and radio star George Burns. Bradbury's first pay as a writer, at age 14, was for a joke he sold to George Burns to use on the \" Burns and Allen\" radio show.\n\nThroughout his youth, Bradbury was an avid reader and writer and knew at a young age that he was \"going into one of the arts.\" Bradbury began writing his own stories at age 11 (1931), during the Great Depression — sometimes writing on the only available paper, butcher paper.\n\nIn his youth, he spent much time in the Carnegie library in Waukegan, reading such authors as H. G. Wells, Jules Verne, and Edgar Allan Poe. At 12, Bradbury began writing traditional horror stories and said he tried to imitate Poe until he was about 18. In addition to comics, he loved Edgar Rice Burroughs, creator of \"Tarzan of the Apes\", especially Burroughs' John Carter of Mars series. \"The Warlord of Mars\" impressed him so much that at the age of 12, he wrote his own sequel. The young Bradbury was also a cartoonist and loved to illustrate. He wrote about Tarzan and drew his own Sunday panels. He listened to the radio show \"Chandu the Magician\", and every night when the show went off the air, he would sit and write the entire script from memory.\n\nAs a teen in Beverly Hills, he often visited his mentor and friend science-fiction writer Bob Olsen, sharing ideas and maintaining contact. In 1936, at a secondhand bookstore in Hollywood, Bradbury discovered a handbill promoting meetings of the Los Angeles Science Fiction Society. Excited to find there were others sharing his interest, Bradbury joined a weekly Thursday-night conclave at age 16.\n\nBradbury cited H. G. Wells and Jules Verne as his primary science-fiction influences. Bradbury identified with Verne, saying, \"He believes the human being is in a strange situation in a very strange world, and he believes that we can triumph by behaving morally\".\n\nIn young adulthood Bradbury read stories published in \"Astounding Science Fiction\", and read everything by Robert A. Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke, and the early writings of Theodore Sturgeon and A. E. van Vogt.\n\nThe family lived about four blocks from the Uptown Theater on Western Avenue in Los Angeles, the flagship theater for MGM and Fox. There, Bradbury learned how to sneak in and watched previews almost every week. He rollerskated there, as well as all over town, as he put it, \"hell-bent on getting autographs from glamorous stars. It was glorious.\" Among stars the young Bradbury was thrilled to encounter were Norma Shearer, Laurel and Hardy, and Ronald Colman. Sometimes, he spent all day in front of Paramount Pictures or Columbia Pictures and then skated to the Brown Derby to watch the stars who came and went for meals. He recounted seeing Cary Grant, Marlene Dietrich, and Mae West, whom he learned made a regular appearance every Friday night, bodyguard in tow.\n\nBradbury relates the following meeting with Sergei Bondarchuk, director of Soviet epic film series \"War and Peace\", at a Hollywood award ceremony in Bondarchuk's honor:\n\nBradbury's first published story was \"Hollerbochen's Dilemma\", which appeared in the January 1938 number of Forrest J. Ackerman's fanzine \"Imagination!\". In July 1939, Ackerman and his then-girlfriend Morojo gave 19-year-old Bradbury the money to head to New York for the First World Science Fiction Convention in New York City, and funded Bradbury's fanzine, titled \"Futuria Fantasia\". Bradbury wrote most of its four issues, each limited to under 100 copies. Between 1940 and 1947, he was a contributor to Rob Wagner's film magazine, \"Script\".\n\nBradbury was free to start a career in writing, when owing to his bad eyesight, he was rejected admission into the military during World War II. Having been inspired by science-fiction heroes such as Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers, Bradbury began to publish science-fiction stories in fanzines in 1938. Bradbury was invited by Forrest J. Ackerman to attend the Los Angeles Science Fiction Society, which at the time met at Clifton's Cafeteria in downtown Los Angeles. This was where he met the writers Robert A. Heinlein, Emil Petaja, Fredric Brown, Henry Kuttner, Leigh Brackett, and Jack Williamson.\n\nIn 1939, Bradbury joined Laraine Day's Wilshire Players Guild, where for two years, he wrote and acted in several plays. They were, as Bradbury later described, \"so incredibly bad\" that he gave up playwriting for two decades. Bradbury's first paid piece, \"Pendulum\", written with Henry Hasse, was published in the pulp magazine \"Super Science Stories\" in November 1941, for which he earned $15.\n\nBradbury sold his first story, \"The Lake\", for $13.75 at 22, and became a full-time writer by 24. His first collection of short stories, \"Dark Carnival\", was published in 1947 by Arkham House, a small press in Sauk City, Wisconsin, owned by writer August Derleth. Reviewing \"Dark Carnival\" for the \"New York Herald Tribune\", Will Cuppy proclaimed Bradbury \"suitable for general consumption\" and predicted that he would become a writer of the caliber of British fantasy author John Collier.\n\nAfter a rejection notice from the pulp \"Weird Tales\", Bradbury submitted \"Homecoming\" to \"Mademoiselle\", which was spotted by a young editorial assistant named Truman Capote. Capote picked the Bradbury manuscript from a slush pile, which led to its publication. \"Homecoming\" won a place in the O. Henry Award Stories of 1947.\n\nIn UCLA's Powell Library, in a study room with typewriters for rent, Bradbury wrote his classic story of a book burning future, \"The Fireman\", which was about 25,000 words long. It was later published at about 50,000 words under the name \"Fahrenheit 451\", for a total cost of $9.80, due to the library's typewriter-rental fees of ten cents per half-hour.\n\nA chance encounter in a Los Angeles bookstore with the British expatriate writer Christopher Isherwood gave Bradbury the opportunity to put \"The Martian Chronicles\" into the hands of a respected critic. Isherwood's glowing review followed.\n\nBradbury attributed two incidents to his lifelong habit of writing every day. The first of these, occurring when he was three years old, was his mother's taking him to see Lon Chaney's performance in \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\". The second incident occurred in 1932, when a carnival entertainer, one Mr. Electrico, touched the young man on the nose with an electrified sword, made his hair stand on end, and shouted, \"Live forever!\" Bradbury remarked, \"I felt that something strange and wonderful had happened to me because of my encounter with Mr. Electrico...[he] gave me a future...I began to write, full-time. I have written every single day of my life since that day 69 years ago.\" At that age, Bradbury first started to do magic, which was his first great love. If he had not discovered writing, he would have become a magician.\n\nBradbury claimed a wide variety of influences, and described discussions he might have with his favorite poets and writers Robert Frost, William Shakespeare, John Steinbeck, Aldous Huxley, and Thomas Wolfe. From Steinbeck, he said he learned \"how to write objectively and yet insert all of the insights without too much extra comment\". He studied Eudora Welty for her \"remarkable ability to give you atmosphere, character, and motion in a single line\". Bradbury's favorite writers growing up included Katherine Anne Porter, who wrote about the American South, Edith Wharton, and Jessamyn West.\n\nBradbury was once described as a \"Midwest surrealist\" and is often labeled a science-fiction writer, which he described as \"the art of the possible.\" Bradbury resisted that categorization, however:\n\nBradbury recounted when he came into his own as a writer, the afternoon he wrote a short story about his first encounter with death. When he was a boy, he met a young girl at the beach and she went out into the water and never came back. Years later, as he wrote about it, tears flowed from him. He recognized he had taken the leap from emulating the many writers he admired to connecting with his voice as a writer.\n\nWhen later asked about the lyrical power of his prose, Bradbury replied, \"From reading so much poetry every day of my life. My favorite writers have been those who’ve said things well.\" He is quoted, \"If you're reluctant to weep, you won't live a full and complete life.\"\n\nIn high school, Bradbury was active in both the poetry club and the drama club, continuing plans to become an actor, but becoming serious about his writing as his high school years progressed. Bradbury graduated from Los Angeles High School, where he took poetry classes with Snow Longley Housh, and short-story writing courses taught by Jeannet Johnson. The teachers recognized his talent and furthered his interest in writing, but he did not attend college. Instead, he sold newspapers at the corner of South Norton Avenue and Olympic Boulevard. In regard to his education, Bradbury said:\nHe told \"The Paris Review\", \"You can't learn to write in college. It's a very bad place for writers because the teachers always think they know more than you do – and they don’t.\"\n\nBradbury described his inspiration as, \"My stories run up and bite me in the leg -- I respond by writing them down -- everything that goes on during the bite. When I finish, the idea lets go and runs off\".\n\nA reinvention of Waukegan, Green Town is a symbol of safety and home, which is often juxtaposed as a contrasting backdrop to tales of fantasy or menace. It serves as the setting of his semiautobiographical classics \"Dandelion Wine\", \"Something Wicked This Way Comes\", and \"Farewell Summer\", as well as in many of his short stories. In Green Town, Bradbury's favorite uncle sprouts wings, traveling carnivals conceal supernatural powers, and his grandparents provide room and board to Charles Dickens. Perhaps the most definitive usage of the pseudonym for his hometown, in \"Summer Morning, Summer Night\", a collection of short stories and vignettes exclusively about Green Town, Bradbury returns to the signature locale as a look back at the rapidly disappearing small-town world of the American heartland, which was the foundation of his roots.\n\nBradbury wrote many short essays on the culture and the arts, attracting the attention of critics in this field, but he used his fiction to explore and criticize his culture and society. Bradbury observed, for example, that \"Fahrenheit 451\" touches on the alienation of people by media:\nBradbury stated the novel worked as a critique of the later development of political correctness:\nIn a 1982 essay, he wrote, \"People ask me to predict the Future, when all I want to do is prevent it\". This intent had been expressed earlier by other authors, who sometimes attributed it to him.\n\nOn May 24, 1956, Bradbury appeared on television in Hollywood on the popular quiz show \"You Bet Your Life\" hosted by Groucho Marx. During his introductory comments and on-air banter with Marx, Bradbury briefly discussed some of his books and other works, including giving an overview of \"The Veldt\", his short story published six years earlier in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" under the title \"The World the Children Made\".\n\nBradbury was a consultant for the American Pavilion at the 1964 New York World's Fair and for the original exhibit housed in Epcot's Spaceship Earth geosphere at Walt Disney World. Bradbury concentrated on detective fiction in the 1980s. In the latter half of the 1980s and early 1990s, he also hosted \"The Ray Bradbury Theater\", a televised anthology series based on his short stories.\n\nBradbury was a strong supporter of public library systems, raising money to prevent the closure of several libraries in California facing budgetary cuts. He said \"libraries raised me\", and shunned colleges and universities, comparing his own lack of funds during the Depression with poor contemporary students. His opinion varied on modern technology. In 1985 Bradbury wrote, \"I see nothing but good coming from computers. When they first appeared on the scene, people were saying, 'Oh my God, I'm so afraid.' I hate people like that – I call them the neo-Luddites\", and \"In a sense, [computers] are simply books. Books are all over the place, and computers will be, too\". He resisted the conversion of his work into e-books, saying in 2010, \"We have too many cellphones. We've got too many internets. We have got to get rid of those machines. We have too many machines now\". When the publishing rights for \"Fahrenheit 451\" came up for renewal in December 2011, Bradbury permitted its publication in electronic form provided that the publisher, Simon & Schuster, allowed the e-book to be digitally downloaded by any library patron. The title remains the only book in the Simon & Schuster catalog where this is possible.\n\nSeveral comic-book writers have adapted Bradbury's stories. Particularly noted among these were EC Comics' line of horror and science-fiction comics. Initially, the writers plagiarized his stories, but a diplomatic letter from Bradbury about it led to the company paying him and negotiating properly licensed adaptations of his work. The comics featuring Bradbury's stories included \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"Weird Science\", \"Weird Fantasy\", \"Crime Suspenstories\", and \"Haunt of Fear\".\n\nBradbury remained an enthusiastic playwright all his life, leaving a rich theatrical legacy, as well as literary. Bradbury headed the Pandemonium Theatre Company in Los Angeles for many years and had a five-year relationship with the Fremont Centre Theatre in South Pasadena.\n\nBradbury is featured prominently in two documentaries related to his classic 1950s-1960s era: Jason V Brock's \"Charles Beaumont: The Life of Twilight Zone's Magic Man\", which details his troubles with Rod Serling, and his friendships with writers Charles Beaumont, George Clayton Johnson, and most especially his dear friend William F. Nolan, as well as Brock's \"The AckerMonster Chronicles!\", which delves into the life of former Bradbury agent, close friend, mega-fan, and \"Famous Monsters of Filmland\" editor Forrest J Ackerman.\n\nBradbury's legacy was celebrated by the bookstore Fahrenheit 451 Books in Laguna Beach, California, in the 1970s and 1980s. The grand opening of an annex to the store was attended by Bradbury and his favorite illustrator, Joseph Mugnaini, in the mid-1980s. The shop closed its doors in 1987, but in 1990, another shop with the same name (with different owners) opened in Carlsbad, California.\n\nIn the 1980s and 90s, Bradbury served on the advisory board of the Los Angeles Student Film Institute.\n\nBradbury was married to Marguerite McClure (January 16, 1922 – November 24, 2003) from 1947 until her death; they had four daughters: Susan, Ramona, Bettina, and Alexandra. Bradbury never obtained a driver's license, but relied on public transportation or his bicycle. He lived at home until he was 27 and married. His wife of 56 years, Maggie, as she was affectionately called, was the only woman Bradbury ever dated.\n\nHe was raised Baptist by his parents, who were themselves infrequent churchgoers. As an adult, Bradbury considered himself a \"delicatessen religionist\" who resisted categorization of his beliefs and took guidance from both Eastern and Western faiths. He felt that his career was \"a God-given thing, and I'm so grateful, so, so grateful. The best description of my career as a writer is 'At play in the fields of the Lord.'\"\n\nBradbury was a close friend of Charles Addams, and Addams illustrated the first of Bradbury's stories about the Elliotts, a family that resembled Addams' own Addams Family placed in rural Illinois. Bradbury's first story about them was \"Homecoming\", published in the 1946 Halloween issue of \"Mademoiselle\", with Addams' illustrations. Addams and he planned a larger collaborative work that would tell the family's complete history, but it never materialized, and according to a 2001 interview, they went their separate ways. In October 2001, Bradbury published all the Family stories he had written in one book with a connecting narrative, \"From the Dust Returned\", featuring a wraparound Addams cover of the original \"Homecoming\" illustration.\n\nAnother close friend was animator Ray Harryhausen, who was best man at Bradbury's wedding. During a BAFTA 2010 awards tribute in honor of Ray Harryhausen's 90th birthday, Bradbury spoke of his first meeting Harryhausen at Forrest J Ackerman's house when they were both 18 years old. Their shared love for science fiction, \"King Kong\", and the King Vidor-directed film \"The Fountainhead\", written by Ayn Rand, was the beginning of a lifelong friendship. These early influences inspired the pair to believe in themselves and affirm their career choices. After their first meeting, they kept in touch at least once a month, in a friendship that spanned over 70 years.\n\nLate in life, Bradbury retained his dedication and passion despite what he described as the \"devastation of illnesses and deaths of many good friends.\" Among the losses that deeply grieved Bradbury was the death of \"Star Trek\" creator Gene Roddenberry, who was an intimate friend for many years. They remained close friends for nearly three decades after Roddenberry asked him to write for \"Star Trek\", which Bradbury never did, objecting that he \"never had the ability to adapt other people's ideas into any sensible form.\"\n\nBradbury suffered a stroke in 1999 that left him partially dependent on a wheelchair for mobility. Despite this, he continued to write, and had even written an essay for \"The New Yorker\", about his inspiration for writing, published only a week prior to his death. Bradbury made regular appearances at science-fiction conventions until 2009, when he retired from the circuit.\nBradbury chose a burial place at Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles, with a headstone that reads \"Author of Fahrenheit 451\". On February 6, 2015, \"The New York Times\" reported that the house that Bradbury lived and wrote in for 50 years of his life, at 10265 Cheviot Drive in Cheviot Hills, Los Angeles, California, had been demolished by the buyer, architect Thom Mayne.\n\nBradbury died in Los Angeles, California, on June 5, 2012, at the age of 91, after a lengthy illness. Bradbury's personal library was willed to the Waukegan Public Library, where he had many of his formative reading experiences.\n\n\"The New York Times\" called Bradbury \"the writer most responsible for bringing modern science fiction into the literary mainstream.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" credited Bradbury with the ability \"to write lyrically and evocatively of lands an imagination away, worlds he anchored in the here and now with a sense of visual clarity and small-town familiarity\". Bradbury's grandson, Danny Karapetian, said Bradbury's works had \"influenced so many artists, writers, teachers, scientists, and it's always really touching and comforting to hear their stories\". \"The Washington Post\" noted several modern day technologies that Bradbury had envisioned much earlier in his writing, such as the idea of banking ATMs and earbuds and Bluetooth headsets from \"Fahrenheit 451\", and the concepts of artificial intelligence within \"I Sing the Body Electric\".\n\nOn June 6, 2012, in an official public statement from the White House Press Office, President Barack Obama said:\n\nNumerous Bradbury fans paid tribute to the author, noting the influence of his works on their own careers and creations. Filmmaker Steven Spielberg stated that Bradbury was \"[his] muse for the better part of [his] sci-fi career... On the world of science fiction and fantasy and imagination he is immortal\". Writer Neil Gaiman felt that \"the landscape of the world we live in would have been diminished if we had not had him in our world\". Author Stephen King released a statement on his website saying, \"Ray Bradbury wrote three great novels and three hundred great stories. One of the latter was called 'A Sound of Thunder'. The sound I hear today is the thunder of a giant's footsteps fading away. But the novels and stories remain, in all their resonance and strange beauty.\"\n\nBradbury is credited with writing 27 novels and over 600 short stories. More than eight million copies of his works, published in over 36 languages, have been sold around the world.\n\nIn 1949, Bradbury and his wife were expecting their first child. He took a Greyhound bus to New York and checked into a room at the YMCA for 50 cents a night. He took his short stories to a dozen publishers and no one wanted them. Just before getting ready to go home, Bradbury had dinner with an editor at Doubleday. When Bradbury recounted that everyone wanted a novel and he did not have one, the editor, coincidentally named Walter Bradbury, asked if the short stories might be tied together into a book-length collection. The title was the editor's idea; he suggested, \"You could call it \"The Martian Chronicles\".\" Bradbury liked the idea and recalled making notes in 1944 to do a book set on Mars. That evening, he stayed up all night at the YMCA and typed out an outline. He took it to the Doubleday editor the next morning, who read it and wrote Bradbury a check for $750. When Bradbury returned to Los Angeles, he connected all the short stories that became \"The Martian Chronicles.\"\n\nWhat was later issued as a collection of stories and vignettes, \"Summer Morning, Summer Night\", started out to be Bradbury's first true novel. The core of the work was Bradbury's witnessing of the American small-town life in the American heartland.\n\nIn the winter of 1955–56, after a consultation with his Doubleday editor, Bradbury deferred publication of a novel based on Green Town, the pseudonym for his hometown. Instead, he extracted 17 stories and, with three other Green Town tales, bridged them into his 1957 book \"Dandelion Wine\". Later, in 2006, Bradbury published the original novel remaining after the extraction, and retitled it \"Farewell Summer\". These two titles show what stories and episodes Bradbury decided to retain as he created the two books out of one.\n\nThe most significant of the remaining unpublished stories, scenes, and fragments were published under the originally intended name for the novel, \"Summer Morning, Summer Night\", in 2007.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1954, 31 of Bradbury's stories were adapted by Al Feldstein for EC Comics (seven of them uncredited in six stories, including \"Kaleidoscope\" and \"Rocket Man\" being combined as \"Home To Stay\" - for which Bradbury was retroactively paid - and EC's first version of \"The Handler\" under the title \"A Strange Undertaking\") and 16 of these were collected in the paperbacks, \"The Autumn People\" (1965) and \"Tomorrow Midnight\" (1966), both published by Ballantine Books with cover illustrations by Frank Frazetta.\nAlso in the early 1950s, adaptations of Bradbury's stories were televised in several anthology shows, including \"Tales of Tomorrow\", \"Lights Out\", \"Out There\", \"Suspense\", \"CBS Television Workshop\", \"Jane Wyman's Fireside Theatre\", \"Star Tonight\", \"Windows\" and \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\". \"The Merry-Go-Round\", a half-hour film adaptation of Bradbury's \"The Black Ferris\", praised by \"Variety\", was shown on \"Starlight Summer Theater\" in 1954 and NBC's \"Sneak Preview\" in 1956. During that same period, several stories were adapted for radio drama, notably on the science fiction anthologies \"Dimension X\" and its successor \"X Minus One\".\n\nProducer William Alland first brought Bradbury to movie theaters in 1953 with \"It Came from Outer Space\", a Harry Essex screenplay developed from Bradbury's screen treatment \"Atomic Monster\". Three weeks later came the release of Eugène Lourié's \"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms\" (1953), which featured one scene based on Bradbury's \"The Fog Horn\", about a sea monster mistaking the sound of a fog horn for the mating cry of a female. Bradbury's close friend Ray Harryhausen produced the stop-motion animation of the creature. Bradbury later returned the favor by writing a short story, \"Tyrannosaurus Rex\", about a stop-motion animator who strongly resembled Harryhausen. Over the next 50 years, more than 35 features, shorts, and TV movies were based on Bradbury's stories or screenplays.\nBradbury was hired in 1953 by director John Huston to work on the screenplay for his film version of Melville's \"Moby Dick\" (1956), which stars Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab, Richard Basehart as Ishmael, and Orson Welles as Father Mapple. A significant result of the film was Bradbury's book \"Green Shadows, White Whale\", a semifictionalized account of the making of the film, including Bradbury's dealings with Huston and his time in Ireland, where exterior scenes that were set in New Bedford, Massachusetts, were filmed.\n\nBradbury's short story \"I Sing the Body Electric\" (from the book of the same name) was adapted for the 100th episode of \"The Twilight Zone\". The episode was first aired on May 18, 1962.\n\nIn 1965, three of Bradbury's stories were adapted for the stage. These included \"The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit\", \"The Day It Rained Forever\", and \"Device Out of Time\". The last was adapted from his 1957 novel \"Dandelion Wine\". The plays debuted at the Coronet Theater in Hollywood and featured Booth Coleman, Joby Baker, Fredric Villani, Arnold Lessing, Eddie Sallia, Keith Taylor, Richard Bull, Gene Otis Shane, Henry T. Delgado, F. Murray Abraham, Anne Loos, and Len Lesser. The director was Charles Rome Smith and the production company was Pandemonium Productions.\n\nOskar Werner and Julie Christie starred in \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1966), an adaptation of Bradbury's novel directed by François Truffaut.\n\nIn 1966, Bradbury helped Lynn Garrison create \"AVIAN\", a specialist aviation magazine. For the first issue, Bradbury wrote a poem, \"Planes That Land on Grass\".\n\nIn 1969, \"The Illustrated Man\" was brought to the big screen, starring Rod Steiger, Claire Bloom, and Robert Drivas. Containing the prologue and three short stories from the book, the film received mediocre reviews. The same year, Bradbury approached composer Jerry Goldsmith, who had worked with Bradbury in dramatic radio of the 1950s and later scored the film version, to compose a cantata \"Christus Apollo\" based on Bradbury's text. The work premiered in late 1969, with the California Chamber Symphony performing with narrator Charlton Heston at UCLA.\n\n\"The Martian Chronicles\" became a three-part TV miniseries starring Rock Hudson, which was first broadcast by NBC in 1980. Bradbury found the miniseries \"just boring\".\n\nThe 1982 television movie \"The Electric Grandmother\" was based on Bradbury's short story \"I Sing the Body Electric\".\n\nThe 1983 horror film \"Something Wicked This Way Comes\", starring Jason Robards and Jonathan Pryce, is based on the Bradbury novel of the same name.\n\nIn 1984, Michael McDonough of Brigham Young University produced \"Bradbury 13\", a series of 13 audio adaptations of famous stories from Bradbury, in conjunction with National Public Radio. The full-cast dramatizations featured adaptations of \"The Ravine\", \"Night Call, Collect\", \"The Veldt\", \"There Was an Old Woman\", \"Kaleidoscope\", \"Dark They Were, and Golden-Eyed\", \"The Screaming Woman\", \"A Sound of Thunder\", \"The Man\", \"The Wind\", \"The Fox and the Forest\", \"Here There Be Tygers\", and \"The Happiness Machine\". Voiceover actor Paul Frees provided narration, while Bradbury was responsible for the opening voiceover; Greg Hansen and Roger Hoffman scored the episodes. The series won a Peabody Award and two Gold Cindy awards, and was released on CD on May 1, 2010. The series began airing on BBC Radio 4 Extra on June 12, 2011.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1992, Bradbury hosted a syndicated anthology television series, \"The Ray Bradbury Theater\", for which he adapted 65 of his stories. Each episode began with a shot of Bradbury in his office, gazing over mementoes of his life, which he states (in narrative) are used to spark ideas for stories. During the first two seasons, Bradbury also provided additional voiceover narration specific to the featured story and appeared on screen.\n\nDeeply respected in the USSR, Bradbury's fiction has been adapted into five episodes of the Soviet science-fiction TV series \"This Fantastic World\" which adapted the stories film version of \"I Sing The Body Electric\", \"Fahrenheit 451\", \"A Piece of Wood\", \"To the Chicago Abyss\", and \"Forever and the Earth\". In 1984 a cartoon adaptation of There Will Come Soft Rains («Будет ласковый дождь») came out by Uzbek director Nazim Tyuhladziev. He made a film adaptation of \"The Veldt\" in 1987. In 1989, a cartoon adaptation of \"Here There Be Tygers\" («Здесь могут водиться тигры») by director Vladimir Samsonov came out.\n\nBradbury wrote and narrated the 1993 animated television version of \"The Halloween Tree\", based on his 1972 novel.\n\nThe 1998 film \"The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit\", released by Touchstone Pictures, was written by Bradbury. It was based on his story \"The Magic White Suit\" originally published in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" in 1957. The story had also previously been adapted as a play, a musical, and a 1958 television version.\n\nIn 2002, Bradbury's own Pandemonium Theatre Company production of \"Fahrenheit 451\" at Burbank's Falcon Theatre combined live acting with projected digital animation by the Pixel Pups. In 1984, Telarium released a game for Commodore 64 based on \"Fahrenheit 451\". Bradbury and director Charles Rome Smith co-founded Pandemonium in 1964, staging the New York production of \"The World of Ray Bradbury\" (1964), adaptations of \"The Pedestrian\", \"The Veldt\", and \"To the Chicago Abyss\".\n\nIn 2005, the film \"A Sound of Thunder\" was released, loosely based upon the short story of the same name. The film \"The Butterfly Effect\" revolves around the same theory as \"A Sound of Thunder\" and contains many references to its inspiration. Short film adaptations of \"A Piece of Wood\" and \"The Small Assassin\" were released in 2005 and 2007, respectively.\n\nIn 2005, it was reported that Bradbury was upset with filmmaker Michael Moore for using the title \"Fahrenheit 9/11\", which is an allusion to Bradbury's \"Fahrenheit 451\", for his documentary about the George W. Bush administration. Bradbury expressed displeasure with Moore's use of the title, but stated that his resentment was not politically motivated, though Bradbury was conservative-leaning politically. Bradbury asserted that he did not want any of the money made by the movie, nor did he believe that he deserved it. He pressured Moore to change the name, but to no avail. Moore called Bradbury two weeks before the film's release to apologize, saying that the film's marketing had been set in motion a long time ago and it was too late to change the title.\n\nIn 2008, the film \"Ray Bradbury's Chrysalis\" was produced by Roger Lay Jr. for Urban Archipelago Films, based upon the short story of the same name. The film won the best feature award at the International Horror and Sci-Fi Film Festival in Phoenix. The film has international distribution by Arsenal Pictures and domestic distribution by Lightning Entertainment.\n\nIn 2010, \"The Martian Chronicles\" was adapted for radio by \"Colonial Radio Theatre on the Air\".\n\nBradbury's works and approach to writing are documented in Terry Sanders' film \"Ray Bradbury: Story of a Writer\" (1963).\n\nBradbury's poem \"Groon\" was voiced as a tribute in 2012.\n\nThe Ray Bradbury Award for excellency in screenwriting was occasionally presented by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America – presented to six people on four occasions from 1992 to 2009. Beginning 2010, the Ray Bradbury Award for Outstanding Dramatic Presentation is presented annually according to Nebula Awards rules and procedures, although it is not a Nebula Award. The revamped Bradbury Award replaced the Nebula Award for Best Script.\n\n\nBradbury appeared in the documentary \"The Fantasy Film Worlds of George Pal\" (1985), produced and directed by Arnold Leibovit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30041335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30041335", "title": "Repurposing", "text": "Repurposing\n\nRepurposing is the process by which an object with one use value is transformed or redeployed as an object with an alternative use value.\n\nRepurposing is as old as human civilization, with many contemporary scholars investigating that way that different societies re-appropriate the artifacts of older cultures in new and creative ways. More recently, repurposing has been celebrated by 21st century hobbyists and arts-and-crafts organizations such as Instructables and other Maker culture communities as a means of creatively responding to the ecological and economic crises of the 21st century. Recent scholarship has attempted to relate these activities to American left- and right-libertarianism.\n\nRepurposing is the use of a tool being re-channeled into being another tool, usually for a purpose unintended by the original tool-maker. Typically, repurposing is done using items usually considered to be junk, garbage, or obsolete. A good example of this would be the Earthship style of house, that uses tires as insulating walls and bottles as glass walls. Reuse is not limited to repeated uses for the same purpose. Examples of repurposing include using tires as boat fenders and steel drums or plastic drums as feeding troughs and/or composting bins. Incinerator and power plant exhaust stack fly-ash is used extensively as an additive to concrete, providing increased strength. This type of reuse can sometimes make use of items which are no longer usable for their original purposes, for example using worn-out clothes as rags.\n\nNot all repurposing is necessarily environmentally friendly, take for instance the idea of repurposing older work trucks for businesses in their infancy, in which their poor fuel economy can negate long term benefits since greater spending of money for fuel, and more fumes output to the sky can prove to be environmentally unfriendly, in which repurposing vehicles for electric car conversion can be the recommended alternative to that, though its cost can be negligible upfront.\n\n\n\n\n\nDrug repositioning (also known as \"drug repurposing\" or \"therapeutic switching\") is the application of known drugs and compounds to treat new diseases. Examples include Pfizer's Viagra for erectile dysfunction and Celgene's thalidomide for cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "51490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51490", "title": "Rights", "text": "Rights\n\nRights are legal, social, or ethical principles of freedom or entitlement; that is, rights are the fundamental normative rules about what is allowed of people or owed to people, according to some legal system, social convention, or ethical theory. Rights are of essential importance in such disciplines as law and ethics, especially theories of justice and deontology.\nRights are often considered fundamental to civilization, for they are regarded as established pillars of society and culture, and the history of social conflicts can be found in the history of each right and its development. According to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", \"rights structure the form of governments, the content of laws, and the shape of morality as it is currently perceived\".\n\nThere is considerable disagreement about what is meant precisely by the term \"rights\". It has been used by different groups and thinkers for different purposes, with different and sometimes opposing definitions, and the precise definition of this principle, beyond having something to do with normative rules of some sort or another, is controversial.\n\nOne way to get an idea of the multiple understandings and senses of the term is to consider different ways it is used. Many diverse things are claimed as rights: \n\nThere are likewise diverse possible ways to categorize rights, such as:\n\nThere has been considerable debate about what this term means within the academic community, particularly within fields such as philosophy, law, deontology, logic, political science, and religion.\n\n\nSome thinkers see rights in only one sense while others accept that both senses have a measure of validity. There has been considerable philosophical debate about these senses throughout history. For example, Jeremy Bentham believed that legal rights were the essence of rights, and he denied the existence of natural rights; whereas Thomas Aquinas held that rights purported by positive law but not grounded in natural law were not properly rights at all, but only a facade or pretense of rights.\n\n\nLiberty rights and claim rights are the inverse of one another: a person has a liberty right permitting him to do something only if there is no other person who has a claim right forbidding him from doing so. Likewise, if a person has a claim right against someone else, then that other person's liberty is limited. For example, a person has a \"liberty right\" to walk down a sidewalk and can decide freely whether or not to do so, since there is no obligation either to do so or to refrain from doing so. But pedestrians may have an obligation not to walk on certain lands, such as other people's private property, to which those other people have a claim right. So a person's \"liberty right\" of walking extends precisely to the point where another's \"claim right\" limits his or her freedom.\n\nIn one sense, a right is a permission to do something or an entitlement to a specific service or treatment from others, and these rights have been called \"positive rights\". However, in another sense, rights may allow or require inaction, and these are called \"negative rights\"; they permit or require doing nothing. For example, in some countries, e.g. the United States, citizens have the \"positive right\" to vote and they have the \"negative right\" to not vote; people can choose not to vote in a given election without punishment. In other countries, e.g. Australia, however, citizens have a positive right to vote but they don't have a negative right to not vote, since voting is compulsory. Accordingly:\n\nThough similarly named, positive and negative rights should not be confused with \"active rights\" (which encompass \"privileges\" and \"powers\") and \"passive rights\" (which encompass \"claims\" and \"immunities\").\n\nThe general concept of rights is that they are possessed by individuals in the sense that they are permissions and entitlements to do things which other persons, or which governments or authorities, can not infringe. This is the understanding of people such as the author Ayn Rand who argued that only individuals have rights, according to her philosophy known as Objectivism. However, others have argued that there are situations in which a group of persons is thought to have rights, or \"group rights\". Accordingly:\n\n\nThere can be tension between individual and group rights. A classic instance in which group and individual rights clash is conflicts between unions and their members. For example, individual members of a union may wish a wage higher than the union-negotiated wage, but are prevented from making further requests; in a so-called closed shop which has a union security agreement, only the union has a \"right\" to decide matters for the individual union members such as wage rates. So, do the supposed \"individual rights\" of the workers prevail about the proper wage? Or do the \"group rights\" of the union regarding the proper wage prevail? Clearly this is a source of tension.\n\nThe Austrian School of Economics holds that only individuals think, feel, and act whether or not members of any abstract group. The society should thus according to economists of the school be analyzed starting from the individual. This methodology is called methodological individualism and is used by the economists to justify individual rights.\n\nOther distinctions between rights draw more on historical association or family resemblance than on precise philosophical distinctions. These include the distinction between civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights, between which the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are often divided. Another conception of rights groups them into three generations. These distinctions have much overlap with that between negative and positive rights, as well as between individual rights and group rights, but these groupings are not entirely coextensive.\n\nRights are often included in the foundational questions that governments and politics have been designed to deal with. Often the development of these socio-political institutions have formed a dialectical relationship with rights.\n\nRights about particular issues, or the rights of particular groups, are often areas of special concern. Often these concerns arise when rights come into conflict with other legal or moral issues, sometimes even other rights. Issues of concern have historically included labor rights, LGBT rights, reproductive rights, disability rights, patient rights and prisoners' rights. With increasing monitoring and the information society, information rights, such as the right to privacy are becoming more important.\n\nSome examples of groups whose rights are of particular concern include animals, and amongst humans, groups such as children and youth, parents (both mothers and fathers), and men and women.\n\nAccordingly, politics plays an important role in developing or recognizing the above rights, and the discussion about which behaviors are included as \"rights\" is an ongoing political topic of importance. The concept of rights varies with political orientation. Positive rights such as a \"right to medical care\" are emphasized more often by left-leaning thinkers, while right-leaning thinkers place more emphasis on negative rights such as the \"right to a fair trial\".\n\nFurther, the term \"equality\" which is often bound up with the meaning of \"rights\" often depends on one's political orientation. Conservatives and libertarians and advocates of free markets often identify equality with equality of opportunity, and want equal and fair rules in the process of making things, while agreeing that sometimes these fair rules lead to unequal outcomes. In contrast, socialists often identify equality with equality of outcome and see fairness when people have equal amounts of goods and services, and therefore think that people have a right to equal portions of necessities such as health care or economic assistance or housing.\n\nIn philosophy, meta-ethics is the branch of ethics that seeks to understand the nature of ethical properties, statements, attitudes, and judgments. Meta-ethics is one of the three branches of ethics generally recognized by philosophers, the others being normative ethics and applied ethics.\n\nWhile normative ethics addresses such questions as \"What should one do?\", thus endorsing some ethical evaluations and rejecting others, meta-ethics addresses questions such as \"What \"is\" goodness?\" and \"How can we tell what is good from what is bad?\", seeking to understand the nature of ethical properties and evaluations.\n\nRights ethics is an answer to the meta-ethical question of \"what normative ethics is concerned with\" (Meta-ethics also includes a group of questions about how ethics comes to be known, true, etc. which is not directly addressed by rights ethics).\nRights ethics holds that normative ethics is concerned with rights. Alternative meta-ethical theories are that ethics is concerned with one of the following:\n\nRights ethics has had considerable influence on political and social thinking. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights gives some concrete examples of widely accepted rights.\n\nSome philosophers have criticised rights as ontologically dubious entities. For instance, although in favour of the extension of individual legal rights, the utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham opposed the idea of natural law and natural rights, calling them \"nonsense upon stilts\". Further, one can question the ability of rights to actually bring about justice for all.\n\nThe Modern English word \"right\" derives from Old English \"riht\" or \"reht\", in turn from Proto-Germanic \"*riχtaz\" meaning \"right\" or \"direct\", and ultimately from Proto-Indo-European \"*reg-to-\" meaning \"having moved in a straight line\", in turn from \"*(o)reg'(a)-\" meaning \"to straighten or direct\". In several different Indo-European languages, a single word derived from the same root means both \"right\" and \"law\", such as French \"droit\", Spanish \"derecho\", German \"Recht\", and Italian \"diritto\".\n\nMany other words related to normative or regulatory concepts derive from this same root, including \"correct\", \"regulate\", and \"rex\" (meaning \"king\"), whence \"regal\" and thence \"royal\". Likewise many more geometric terms derive from this same root, such as \"erect\" (as in \"upright\"), \"rectangle\" (literally \"right angle\"), \"straight\" and \"stretch\". Like \"right\", the English words \"rule\" and \"ruler\", deriving still from the same root, have both normative or regulatory and geometric meanings (e.g. a ruler as in a king, or a ruler as in a straightedge).\n\nSeveral other roots have similar normative and geometric descendants, such as Latin \"norma\", whence \"norm\", \"normal\", and \"normative\" itself, and also geometric concepts such as \"normal vectors\"; and likewise Greek \"ortho\" and Latin \"ordo\", meaning either \"right\" or \"correct\" (as in \"orthodox\", meaning \"correct opinion\") or \"straight\" or \"perpendicular\" (as in \"orthogonal\", meaning \"perpendicular angle\"), and thence \"order\", \"ordinary\", etc.\n\nThe specific enumeration of rights has differed greatly in different periods of history. In many cases, the system of rights promulgated by one group has come into sharp and bitter conflict with that of other groups. In the political sphere, a place in which rights have historically been an important issue, constitutional provisions of various states sometimes address the question of who has what legal rights.\n\nHistorically, many notions of rights were authoritarian and hierarchical, with different people granted different rights, and some having more rights than others. For instance, the right of a father to respected from his son did not indicate a right from the son to receive a return from that respect; and the divine right of kings, which permitted absolute power over subjects, did not leave a lot of room for many rights for the subjects themselves.\n\nIn contrast, modern conceptions of rights have often emphasized liberty and equality as among the most important aspects of rights, as was evident in the American and French revolutions.\n\nImportant documents in the political history of rights include:\n\n\n\nOrganisations:\n\n"}
{"id": "65823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65823", "title": "Snake Jailbird", "text": "Snake Jailbird\n\nSnake Jailbird (usually referred to as simply Snake) is a recurring fictional character in the animated television series \"The Simpsons\", who is voiced by Hank Azaria. Snake's first appearance was in the episode \"The War of the Simpsons\". His catchphrase is \"Bye!\", which he usually says when he is in trouble. His real name is Albert Knickerbocker Aloysius Snake, although a Simpsons card says his name is Chester Turley. He was named the 19th (out of 25) of IGN's Top 25 Simpsons Peripheral Characters.\n\nSnake is Springfield's resident recidivist felon, always getting arrested but rarely staying in jail. He speaks with a Valley Boy accent and has a tattoo of a snake on his arm, which is presumably the source of his nickname. He is partial to fast cars and fast women, and has a knack for reckless abandon. He was formerly an idealistic Indiana Jones-type archaeologist until Moe Szyslak stole the Mayan gold coins he had discovered and was going to donate to the museum, and he decided to take his revenge out on society (convenience stores).\n\nHe also attended Middlebury College and repaid his student loans after robbing Moe's tavern. He once ran a telemarketing scam, but could not stick to it because he did not like bothering people at home. He also wrote the books, \"The Ten Habits of Highly Successful Criminals\" and \"A Criminal's Guide to Hiding in Mexico\". When wearing a prison uniform, his prison number is 7F20, which is the production code of his debut episode.\n\nIn \"Pygmoelian\", it was revealed that Snake had a son. \"Luca$\" and \"The Seemingly Never-Ending Story\" both give the son's name as Jeremy. The episode reveals that Snake has custody issues with his son. He is a loving father to Jeremy; unfortunately he is raising his son to be much like himself. In \"Pygmoelian\", he helps his son steal Lisa's bicycle, and beams with pride when his son exclaims, \"Daddy, I'm stealing!\" In addition to his son, Snake has a brother (or other male relative) who looks and talks very similarly, as seen in \"The Springfield Connection\" where the two run a Three-card Monte game. His girlfriend Gloria (who is awkwardly a cop) briefly dated Mr. Burns, but then came back to him. Gloria was voiced by Julia Louis-Dreyfus on several occasions. (In one instance, she visits Snake in prison, where he tells her to kill someone who has been editing his Wikipedia page).\n\nIn \"Luca$\", he becomes friends with Bart Simpson, and Bart tries to protect him from the electric chair.\n\nHe is a major character in \"\", \"\", and a supporting character in \"The Simpsons Game\". He also appears in \"\". He appears in \"The Simpsons Movie\", as part of the local mob headed by Fat Tony.\n\nSnake first appeared in the season two episode \"The War of the Simpsons\". His first name was first mentioned by his cellmate Sideshow Bob in \"Black Widower\". In the script, the writers had simply mentioned a character named Snake and it had been the directors who had assigned that existing character design to the name. Snake's voice is based on Hank Azaria's old college roommate.\n\nIn the episode \"The Seemingly Never-Ending Story\", Lisa tells a story in which Snake refers to himself as Professor Jailbird. In \"Luca$\", his name is said to be Albert Knickerbocker Aloysius Snake.\n"}
{"id": "9964816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9964816", "title": "Stanley Nelson Jr.", "text": "Stanley Nelson Jr.\n\nStanley Earl Nelson Jr. (born June 7, 1951) is an American documentary filmmaker and a Macarthur \"genius\" fellow known as a director, writer and producer of documentaries examining African American history and experiences. He is a recipient of the 2013 National Humanities Medal from President Obama. He has won three Primetime Emmy Awards.\n\nAmong his notable films are \"Freedom Riders\" (2010), \"Wounded Knee\" (2009), \"\" (2006), \"\" (2005), \"A Place of Our Own\" (2004), \"The Murder of Emmett Till\" (2003), and \"The Black Press: Soldiers without Swords\" (1998).\n\nNelson was born in New York City on June 7, 1951, to Stanley Nelson Sr. and A’lelia (Ransom) Nelson, and the second of four children. Nelson's mother A'lelia Nelson was the last president of the Madame C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company, a famous early black enterprise established in 1906 that produced hair care products and cosmetics for black women. A’lelia was also a librarian at City College of New York and was acquisitions supervisor for the Library of Congress. Nelson's father Dr. Stanley Earl Nelson Sr. was a dentist who was a pioneer in reconstructive dentistry and taught at New York University. Dr. Nelson was also an active supporter of the civil rights movement. Nelson's sister Jill Nelson is a prominent African-American journalist and author.\n\nNelson attended New Lincoln School, a private Manhattan school, from kindergarten through high school. He attended Beloit College in Wisconsin, and later transferred to six different colleges including New York University, Morris Brown College, and Hunter College. He graduated from the Leonard Davis Film School at the City College of New York with a Bachelor in Fine Arts in 1976.\n\nAfter graduation, Nelson earned an apprenticeship with the documentary filmmaker William Greaves. Nelson wrote and produced his 1987 documentary about the first self-made American millionairess, \"Two Dollars and a Dream: The Story of Madam C.J. Walker\", which aired as part of Black History Month presentations on PBS in 1988. The film was named Best Production of the Decade by the Black Filmmakers Foundation, and won the CINE Golden Eagle Award.\n\nNelson soon found a job at PBS, working as a television producer with Bill Moyers for the TV series \"Listening to America.\" His next film releases included the Emmy Award-nominated documentary \"The Black Press: Soldiers Without Swords\" (1999), and \"Marcus Garvey: Look for Me in the Whirlwind\" (2000) about civil right activist Marcus Garvey was first place overall winner at the Black Filmmakers Hall of Fame in 2001 and won best documentary at the 2002 Black International Cinema Awards. Nelson has made several productions for the Smithsonian Institution, including a tribute to African-American artists, entitled \"Free Within Ourselves,\" and \"Climbing Jacob’s Ladder.\"\n\nHe received a MacArthur Fellows Program Fellowship in 2002. Nelson also received fellowships at American Film Institute, the New York Foundation for the Arts, and Columbia University. He was on the selection panel for three years for the Fulbright Fellowship in film.\n\nFor the 2003 \"The American Experience\" (PBS) episode \"The Murder Of Emmett Till\", Nelson won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for Nonfiction Programming, Sundance Film Festival Special Jury Prize, and the George Foster Peabody Award.\n\nNelson's 2004 film \"A Place of Our Own\" was nominated for the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. In 2004, he also won the Educational Video Center's Excellence in Community Service Award.\n\nIn 2007, he received an Emmy nomination for Exceptional Merit in Documentary Filmmaking as a producer of \"\" that aired on PBS series \"The American Experience\".\n\nOn May 4, 2011, Stanley Nelson and his film \"Freedom Riders\" was featured on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" in a special program celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Freedom Riders. Nelson won two Emmy awards for the film in 2011: Outstanding Writing for Nonfiction Programming, and Exceptional Merit in Documentary Filmmaking as one of the producers.\n\nNelson directed the 2015 documentary \"\", the first of what is to be a three-part series of documentaries about African-American history entitled \"America Revisited.\" He won an Emmy Award for Exceptional Merit in Documentary Filmmaking as one of the producers of this film in 2016.\n\nHe is a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and a recipient of the NEH National Humanities Medal presented by President Obama in 2014. In 2015 the American Film Institute paid tribute to him as its Guggenheim Symposium Honoree. In 2016 he received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the News & Documentary Emmy Awards.\n\nStanley Nelson is Executive Director and co-founder of Firelight Media with wife, writer and producer Marcia Smith, a non-profit which provides technical education and professional support to emerging documentarians. The organization received the MacArthur Award for Creative and Effective Institutions in 2015. He is co-founder of Firelight Films, the for-profit documentary production company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35676775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35676775", "title": "Statistical language acquisition", "text": "Statistical language acquisition\n\nStatistical language acquisition, is a branch of developmental psycholinguistics, that studies the process by which humans develop the ability to perceive, produce, comprehend, and communicate with natural language in all of its aspects (phonological, syntactic, lexical, morphological, semantic) through the use of general learning mechanisms operating on statistical patterns in the linguistic input. Statistical learning acquisition claims that infants language learning is based on pattern perception rather than an innate biological grammar. Several statistical elements such as frequency of words, frequent frames, phonotactic patterns and other regularities provide information on language structure and meaning for facilitation of language acquisition.\n\nFundamental to the study of statistical language acquisition is the centuries-old debate between rationalism (or its modern manifestation in the psycholinguistic community, nativism) and empiricism, with researchers in this field falling strongly in support of the latter category. Nativism is the position that humans are born with innate domain-specific knowledge, especially inborn capacities for language learning. Ranging from seventeenth century rationalist philosophers such as Descartes, Spinoza, and Leibniz to contemporary philosophers such as Richard Montague and linguists such as Noam Chomsky, nativists posit an innate learning mechanism with the specific function of language acquisition.\n\nIn modern times, this debate has largely surrounded Chomsky's support of a universal grammar, properties that all natural languages must have, through the controversial postulation of a language acquisition device (LAD), an instinctive mental 'organ' responsible for language learning which searches all possible language alternatives and chooses the parameters that best match the learner's environmental linguistic input. Much of Chomsky's theory is founded on the poverty of the stimulus (POTS) argument, the assertion that a child's linguistic data is so limited and corrupted that learning language from this data alone is impossible. As an example, many proponents of POTS claim that because children are never exposed to negative evidence, that is, information about what phrases are ungrammatical, the language structure they learn would not resemble that of correct speech without a language-specific learning mechanism. Chomsky's argument for an internal system responsible for language, biolinguistics, poses a three factor model. \"Genetic endowment\" allows the infant to extract linguistic info, detect rules, and have universal grammar. \"External environment\" illuminates the need to interact with others and the benefits of language exposure at an early age. The last factor encompasses the brain properties, learning principles, and computational efficiencies that enable children to pick up on language rapidly using patterns and strategies.\n\nStanding in stark contrast to this position is empiricism, the epistemological theory that all knowledge comes from sensory experience. This school of thought often characterizes the nascent mind as a tabula rasa, or blank slate, and can in many ways be associated with the nurture perspective of the \"nature vs. nurture debate\". This viewpoint has a long historical tradition that parallels that of rationalism, beginning with seventeenth century empiricist philosophers such as Locke, Bacon, Hobbes, and, in the following century, Hume. The basic tenet of empiricism is that information in the environment is structured enough that its patterns are both detectable and extractable by domain-general learning mechanisms. In terms of language acquisition, these patterns can be either linguistic or social in nature.\n\nChomsky is very critical of this empirical theory of language acquisition. He has said, \"It's true there's been a lot of work on trying to apply statistical models to various linguistic problems. I think there have been some successes, but a lot of failures.\" He claims the idea of using statistical methods to acquire language is simply a mimicry of the process, rather than a true understanding of how language is acquired.\n\nOne of the most used experimental paradigms in investigations of infants' capacities for statistical language acquisition is the Headturn Preference Procedure (HPP), developed by Stanford psychologist Anne Fernald in 1985 to study infants' preferences for prototypical child-directed speech over normal adult speech. In the classic HPP paradigm, infants are allowed to freely turn their heads and are seated between two speakers with mounted lights. The light of either the right or left speaker then flashes as that speaker provides some type of audial or linguistic input stimulus to the infant. Reliable orientation to a given side is taken to be an indication of a preference for the input associated with that side's speaker. This paradigm has since become increasingly important in the study of infant speech perception, especially for input at levels higher than syllable chunks, though with some modifications, including using the listening times instead of the side preference as the relevant dependent measure.\n\nSimilar to HPP, the Conditioned Headturn Procedure also makes use of an infant's differential preference for a given side as an indication of a preference for, or more often a familiarity with, the input or speech associated with that side. Used in studies of prosodic boundary markers by Gout et al. (2004) and later by Werker in her classic studies of categorical perception of native-language phonemes, infants are conditioned by some attractive image or display to look in one of two directions every time a certain input is heard, a whole word in Gout's case and a single phonemic syllable in Werker's. After the conditioning, new or more complex input is then presented to the infant, and their ability to detect the earlier target word or distinguish the input of the two trials is observed by whether they turn their head in expectation of the conditioned display or not.\n\nWhile HPP and the Conditioned Headturn Procedure allow for observations of behavioral responses to stimuli and after the fact inferences about what the subject's expectations must have been to motivate this behavior, the Anticipatory Eye Movement paradigm allows researchers to directly observe a subject's expectations before the event occurs. By tracking subjects' eye movements researchers have been able to investigate infant decision-making and the ways in which infants encode and act on probabilistic knowledge to make predictions about their environments. This paradigm also offers the advantage of comparing differences in eye movement behavior across a wider range of ages than others.\n\nArtificial languages, that is, small-scale languages that typically have an extremely limited vocabulary and simplified grammar rules, are a commonly used paradigm for psycholinguistic researchers. Artificial languages allow researchers to isolate variables of interest and wield a greater degree of control over the input the subject will receive. Unfortunately, the overly simplified nature of these languages and the absence of a number of phenomena common to all human natural languages such as rhythm, pitch changes, and sequential regularities raise questions of external validity for any findings obtained using this paradigm, even after attempts have been made to increase the complexity and richness of the languages used. The artificial language's lack of complexity or decreased complexity fails to account for a child's need to recognize a given syllable in natural language regardless of the sound variability inherent to natural language, though \"it is possible that the complexity of natural language actually facilitates learning.\"\n\nAs such, artificial language experiments are typically conducted to explore what the relevant linguistic variables are, what sources of information infants are able to use and when, and how researchers can go about modeling the learning and acquisition process. Aslin and Newport, for example, have used artificial languages to explore what features of linguistic input make certain patterns salient and easily detectable by infants, allowing them to easily contrast the detection of syllable repetition with that of word-final syllables and make conclusions about the conditions under which either feature is recognized as important.\n\nStatistical learning has been shown to play a large role in language acquisition, but social interaction appears to be a necessary component of learning as well. In one study, infants presented with audio or audiovisual recordings of Mandarin speakers failed to distinguish the phonemes of the language. This implies that simply hearing the sounds is not sufficient for language learning; social interaction cues the infant to take statistics. Particular interactions geared towards infants is known as \"child-directed\" language because it is more repetitive and associative, which makes it easier to learn. These \"child directed\" interactions could also be the reason why it is easier to learn a language as a child rather than an adult.\n\nStudies of bilingual infants, such as a study Bijeljac-Babic, et al., on French-learning infants, have offered insight to the role of prosody in language acquisition. The Bijeljac-Babic study found that language dominance influences \"sensitivity to prosodic contrasts.\" Although this was not a study on statistical learning, its findings on prosodic pattern recognition might have implications for statistical learning.\n\nIt is possible that the kinds of language experience and knowledge gained through the statistical learning of the first language influences one's acquisition of a second language. Some research points to the possibility that the difficulty of learning a second language may be derived from the structural patterns and language cues that one has already picked up from his or her acquisition of first language. In that sense, the knowledge of and skills to process the first language from statistical acquisition may act as a complicating factor when one tries to learn a new language with different sentence structures, grammatical rules, and speech patterns.\n\nThe first step in developing knowledge of a system as complex as natural language is learning to distinguish the important language-specific classes of sounds, called phonemes, that distinguish meaning between words. UBC psychologist Janet Werker, since her influential series of experiments in the 1980s, has been one of the most prominent figures in the effort to understand the process by which human babies develop these phonological distinctions. While adults who speak different languages are unable to distinguish meaningful sound differences in other languages that do not delineate different meanings in their own, babies are born with the ability to universally distinguish all speech sounds. Werker's work has shown that while infants at six to eight months are still able to perceive the difference between certain Hindi and English consonants, they have completely lost this ability by 11 to 13 months.\n\nIt is now commonly accepted that children use some form of perceptual distributional learning, by which categories are discovered by clumping similar instances of an input stimulus, to form phonetic categories early in life. Developing children have been found to be effective judges of linguistic authority, screening the input they model their language on by shifting their attention less to speakers who mispronounce words. Infants also use statistical tracking to calculate the likelihood that particular phonemes will follow each other.<ref name = \"Romberg/saffron\"> Romberg, Alexa R and Sarron, Jenny R. (2010). \"Statistical Learning and Language Acquisition.\" WIREs Cogn Sci 10.1002/wbs.78</ref>\n\nParsing is the process by which a continuous speech stream is segmented into its discrete meaningful units, e.g. sentences, words, and syllables. Saffran (1996) represents a singularly seminal study in this line of research. Infants were presented with two minutes of continuous speech of an artificial language from a computerized voice to remove any interference from extraneous variables such as prosody or intonation. After this presentation, infants were able to distinguish words from nonwords, as measured by longer looking times in the second case.\n\nAn important concept in understanding these results is that of transitional probability, the likelihood of an element, in this case a syllable, following or preceding another element. In this experiment, syllables that went together in words had a much higher transitional probability than did syllables at word boundaries that just happened to be adjacent. Incredibly, infants, after a short two-minute presentation, were able to keep track of these statistics and recognize high probability words. Further research has since replicated these results with natural languages unfamiliar to infants, indicating that learning infants also keep track of the direction (forward or backward) of the transitional probabilities. Though the neural processes behind this phenomenon remain largely unknown, recent research reports increased activity in the left inferior frontal gyrus and the middle frontal gyrus during the detection of word boundaries.\n\nThe development of syllable-ordering biases is an important step along the way to full language development. The ability to categorize syllables and group together frequently co-occurring sequences may be critical in the development of a \"protolexicon\", a set of common language-specific word templates based on characteristic patterns in the words an infant hears. The development of this protolexicon may in turn allow for the recognition of new types of patterns, e.g. the high frequency of word-initially stressed consonants in English, which would allow infants to further parse words by recognizing common prosodic phrasings as autonomous linguistic units, restarting the dynamic cycle of word and language learning.\n\nThe question of how novice language-users are capable of associating learned labels with the appropriate referent, the person or object in the environment which the label names, has been at the heart of philosophical considerations of language and meaning from Plato to Quine to Hofstadter. This problem, that of finding some solid relationship between word and object, of finding a word's meaning without succumbing to an infinite recursion of dictionary look-up, is known as the symbol grounding problem.\n\nResearchers have shown that this problem is intimately linked with the ability to parse language, and that those words that are easy to segment due to their high transitional probabilities are also easier to map to an appropriate referent. This serves as further evidence of the developmental progression of language acquisition, with children requiring an understanding of the sound distributions of natural languages to form phonetic categories, parse words based on these categories, and then use these parses to map them to objects as labels.\n\nThe developmentally earliest understanding of word to referent associations have been reported at six months old, with infants comprehending the words ' mommy' and 'daddy' or their familial or cultural equivalents. Further studies have shown that infants quickly develop in this capacity and by seven months are capable of learning associations between moving images and nonsense words and syllables.\n\nIt is important to note that there is a distinction, often confounded in acquisition research, between mapping a label to a specific instance or individual and mapping a label to an entire class of objects. This latter process is sometimes referred to as generalization or rule learning. Research has shown that if input is encoded in terms of perceptually salient dimensions rather than specific details and if patterns in the input indicate that a number of objects are named interchangeably in the same context, a language learner will be much more likely to generalize that name to every instance with the relevant features. This tendency is heavily dependent on the consistency of context clues and the degree to which word contexts overlap in the input. These differences are furthermore linked to the well-known patterns of under and overgeneralization in infant word learning. Research has also shown that the frequency in co-occurrence of referents is tracked as well, which helps create associations and dispel ambiguities in object-referent models.\n\nThe ability to appropriately generalize to whole classes of yet unseen words, coupled with the abilities to parse continuous speech and keep track of word-ordering regularities, may be the critical skills necessary to develop proficiency with and knowledge of syntax and grammar.\n\nAccording to recent research, there is no neural evidence of statistical language learning in children with autism spectrum disorders. When exposed to a continuous stream of artificial speech, neurotypical children displayed less cortical activity in the dorsolateral frontal cortices (specifically the middle frontal gyrus) as cues for word boundaries increased. However activity in these networks remained unchanged in autistic children, regardless of the verbal cues provided. This evidence, highlighting the importance of proper Frontal Lobe brain function is in support of the \"Executive Functions\" Theory, used to explain some of the biologically related causes of Autistic language deficits. With impaired working memory, decision making, planning, and goal setting, which are vital functions of the Frontal Lobe, Autistic children are at loss when it comes to socializing and communication (Ozonoff, et al., 2004). Additionally, researchers have found that the level of communicative impairment in autistic children was inversely correlated with signal increases in these same regions during exposure to artificial languages. Based on this evidence, researchers have concluded that children with autism spectrum disorders don't have the neural architecture to identify word boundaries in continuous speech. Early word segmentation skills have been shown to predict later language development, which could explain why language delay is a hallmark feature of autism spectrum disorders.\n\nLanguage learning takes place in different contexts, with both the infant and the caregiver engaging in social interactions. Recent research have investigated how infants and adults use cross-situational statistics in order to learn about not only the meanings of words but also the constraints within a context. For example, Smith and his colleagues proposed that infants learn language by acquiring a bias to label objects to similar objects that come from categories that are well-defined. Important to this view is the idea that the constraints that assist learning of words are not independent of the input itself or the infant's experience. Rather, constraints come about as infants learn about the ways that the words are used and begin to pay attention to certain characteristics of objects that have been used in the past to represent the words.\n\nInductive learning problem can occur as words are oftentimes used in ambiguous situations in which there are more than one possible referents available. This can lead to confusion for the infants as they may not be able to distinguish which words should be extended to label objects being referenced to. Smith and Yu proposed that a way to make a distinction in such ambiguous situations is to track the word-referent pairings over multiple scenes. For instance, an infant who hears a word in the presence of object A and object B will be unsure of whether the word is the referent of object A or object B. However, if the infant then hears the label again in the presence of object B and object C, the infant can conclude that object B is the referent of the label because object B consistently pairs with the label across different situations.\n\nComputational models have long been used to explore the mechanisms by which language learners process and manipulate linguistic information. Models of this type allow researchers to systematically control important learning variables that are oftentimes difficult to manipulate at all in human participants.\n\nAssociative neural network models of language acquisition are one of the oldest types of cognitive model, using distributed representations and changes in the weights of the connections between the nodes that make up these representations to simulate learning in a manner reminiscent of the plasticity-based neuronal reorganization that forms the basis of human learning and memory. Associative models represent a break with classical cognitive models, characterized by discrete and context-free symbols, in favor of a dynamical systems approach to language better capable of handling temporal considerations.\n\nA precursor to this approach, and one of the first model types to account for the dimension of time in linguistic comprehension and production was Elman's simple recurrent network (SRN). By making use of a feedback network to represent the system's past states, SRNs were able in a word-prediction task to cluster input into self-organized grammatical categories based solely on statistical co-occurrence patterns.\n\nEarly successes such as these paved the way for dynamical systems research into linguistic acquisition, answering many questions about early linguistic development but leaving many others unanswered, such as how these statistically acquired lexemes are represented. Of particular importance in recent research has been the effort to understand the dynamic interaction of learning (e.g. language-based) and learner (e.g. speaker-based) variables in lexical organization and competition in bilinguals. In the ceaseless effort to move toward more psychologically realistic models, many researchers have turned to a subset of associative models, self-organizing maps (SOMs), as established, cognitively plausible models of language development.\n\nSOMs have been helpful to researchers in identifying and investigating the constraints and variables of interest in a number of acquisition processes, and in exploring the consequences of these findings on linguistic and cognitive theories. By identifying working memory as an important constraint both for language learners and for current computational models, researchers have been able to show that manipulation of this variable allows for syntactic bootstrapping, drawing not just categorical but actual content meaning from words' positional co-occurrence in sentences.\n\nSome recent models of language acquisition have centered around methods of Bayesian Inference to account for infants' abilities to appropriately parse streams of speech and acquire word meanings. Models of this type rely heavily on the notion of conditional probability (the probability of A given B), in line with findings concerning infants' use of transitional probabilities of words and syllables to learn words.\n\nModels that make use of these probabilistic methods have been able to merge the previously dichotomous language acquisition perspectives of social theories that emphasize the importance of learning speaker intentions and statistical and associative theories that rely on cross-situational contexts into a single joint-inference problem. This approach has led to important results in explaining acquisition phenomena such as mutual exclusivity, one-trial learning or fast mapping, and the use of social intentions.\n\nWhile these results seem to be robust, studies concerning these models' abilities to handle more complex situations such as multiple referent to single label mapping, multiple label to single referent mapping, and bilingual language acquisition in comparison to associative models' successes in these areas have yet to be explored. Hope remains, though, that these model types may be merged to provide a comprehensive account of language acquisition.\n\nAlong the lines of probabilistic frequencies, the C/V hypothesis basically states all language hearers use consonantal frequencies to distinguish between words (lexical distinctions) in continuous speech strings, in comparison to vowels. Vowels are more pertinent to rhythmic identification. Several follow-up studies revealed this finding, as they showed that vowels are processed independently of their local statistical distribution.\nOther research has shown that the consonant-vowel ratio doesn't influence the sizes of lexicons when comparing distinct languages. In the case of languages with a higher consonant ratio, children may depend more on consonant neighbors than rhyme or vowel frequency.\n\nSome models of language acquisition have been based on adaptive parsing and grammar induction algorithms.\n"}
{"id": "32997809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32997809", "title": "The Guitar Player (Vermeer)", "text": "The Guitar Player (Vermeer)\n\nThe Guitar Player is a circa 1672 painting by Jan Vermeer, on display in Kenwood House, London as part of the Iveagh Bequest. In 2012 Kenwood closed for renovations until autumn 2013, and the painting was on display in the National Gallery for this period, next to their own two Vermeers. It was returned to Kenwood House in late December.\nOn February 23, 1974, the painting was stolen from Kenwood House and held for a ransom of over $1 million (US) in food to be distributed on the Caribbean island of Grenada, or else the painting would be destroyed by those who had stolen it. Later, a small strip of the painting was sent to \"The Times\" of London along with a demand that the Irish Republican sisters Marian and Dolours Price be allowed to serve their prison sentences near their homes in Northern Ireland. It was recovered by Scotland Yard in the cemetery of St Bartholomew-the-Great, in London's financial district, on May 7, 1974. Although the painting showed signs of dampness, it was otherwise undamaged.\n\nA period copy, \"A Lady Playing the Guitar\", is in the collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n"}
{"id": "34610257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34610257", "title": "The Theological Method of Samkara", "text": "The Theological Method of Samkara\n\nThe Theological Method of Samkara is Richard De Smet's doctoral dissertation, defended at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome, in 1953, with Fr Renatus Arnou, SJ as director. The dissertation, which rapidly became well-known, remains unpublished . The dissertation proposed that Sankara was not so much a pure philosopher, but rather a \"srutivadin\" or theologian, an exegete or hermeneutician of the scriptures. It also proposed that the doctrine of indirect signification (\"lakṣaṇā\") plays a central role in Sankara's theological method. However, in the dissertation itself, De Smet does not arrive clearly at his later rejection of the classical illusionist (\"mayavadin\") monistic interpretation of Sankara in favour of a non-dualist 'realist' one.\n\nDe Smet himself reports that he sent the dissertation to various specialists in 1954, people like Olivier Lacombe, Hajime Nakamura, S.K. Belvalkar, Dhirendra Mohan Datta, Paul Hacker, Helmuth von Glasenapp, Pierre Johanns, A.J. Alston, Louis Renou, A.C. Mukerji, Daniel Ingalls, Jacques-Albert Cuttat, H.O. Mascarenhas and J.B. van Buitenen, who seem to have appraised it positively.\n\nWhile De Smet's thesis has not been completely accepted among Indologists in general and among specialists of Sankara, it has received a positive reception by K. Satchidananda Murty in his \"Revelation and Reason in Advaita\" and by Anantanand Rambachan in his \"Accomplishing the Accomplished: The Vedas as a Source of Valid Knowledge in Sankara\".\n\nIn one of his last letters, De Smet had given permission for the publication of an updated and edited version of his thesis to George McLean, who worked with Bradley J. Malkovsky towards this end. In his introduction to the De Smet commemorative volume, Malkovsky indicates that publication is in process. The publication is still awaited.\n\n"}
{"id": "7707591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7707591", "title": "Thomas Hinde", "text": "Thomas Hinde\n\nDoctor Thomas Hinde (July 10, 1737 – September 28, 1828) was Northern Kentucky's first physician, a member of the British Royal Navy, an American Revolutionary, personal physician to Patrick Henry, and treated General Wolfe when he died in Quebec, Canada.\n\nThomas Hinde is the patriarch of the Hinde family in the United States. His youngest son, Thomas S. Hinde, was a notable Methodist minister and businessman, Charles T. Hinde, his grandson, was a shipping magnate, and Edmund C. Hinde, another grandson, was an adventurer. The Kavanaugh and Southgate branches of his family held elected office and positions of leadership in the Methodist church.\n\nAs personal physician to Patrick Henry, Hinde played a critical role in the American Revolutionary War through his vaccinations against smallpox and treatment of wounded soldiers. For his service he received a large land grant in Kentucky, where he moved with his family. Hinde was northern Kentucky's first physician, and a memorial was erected in Campbell County, Kentucky to honor his services to the state. He died in 1828 aged 91, which was unusually old for the time. According to Otto Juettner in 1909, who was a famous medical doctor and medical historian, Hinde \"never wrote a line in his life.\" His life has been described as being like a \"romance\", and he was called a \"patriarch\" to the American medical profession.\n\nHinde was born in Oxfordshire, England, in July 1737. He received a classical education in Oxfordshire and, after completing his studies, was sent to London, England to study medicine. He studied physics and surgery under Dr Thomas Brooke at Saint Thomas Hospital in London and, at the age of nineteen, was presented to the Company of Surgeons for a licence. Shortly after, he was commissioned as a Surgeons' Mate in the Royal Navy and sailed for America with the forces commanded by General Amherst. After landing in New York on June 10, 1757, he spent time at Halifax and Louisbourg. Hinde spent the winter of 1758 in Halifax and assisted Amherst with the reduction of Louisburg. He was attached to the ship which bore the commander in chief, General James Wolfe, on his way to Quebec.\n\nWolfe died in Hinde's arms during the 1759 Battle of Quebec of the Seven Years' War. According to one source, Hinde's relationship with General Wolfe and his experiences in Quebec were some of the most \"cherished\" experiences of his life. A painting of the death shows Dr Hinde compressing a wound to General Wolfe's torso.It is an oil on canvas of the Enlightenment period. Benjamin West, who painted it, made a nearly identical painting of the same scene for King George III in 1771. After Wolfe's death, Hinde remained in the British Navy and was present for the reduction of Bell'isle. Shortly after, Hinde was promoted and remained as a physician for a warship after the peace of 1763. He eventually resigned his commission.\n\nCopies of \"The Death of General Wolfe\" by West are currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada, the Royal Ontario Museum (Canadiana art collection), the William L. Clements Library at the University of Michigan and at Ickworth House, Suffolk, England.\n\nAfter the fall of Quebec, Hinde returned briefly to England. Peace with France was reached in 1763, and Hinde then returned to Virginia and settled. He formed a close friendship with an unnamed Virginian who persuaded him to settle in a place called Hobbs Hole in Essex County, Virginia and practice medicine. Another source states that an aged physician in Virginia wrote to Dr Thomas Brooke, Hinde's mentor, asking Brooke to send a young physician to assist him in his practice. Brooke reportedly choose Hinde and \"earnestly advised\" him to \"avail himself of the situation which was offered\". Hinde accepted, but moved soon after to settle in Newton, now in West Virginia, where he met his wife. After their wedding Hinde moved again and settled in Hanover County, Virginia.\n\nIn 1765, after he settled in Virginia, Hinde became acquainted with Patrick Henry one of the founding fathers of the United States, Samuel Davis, and Lord Dunmore. Two years later he married Mary T. Hubbard, settled near Henry, and became his family physician. His association with Henry and settlement in Virginia helped Hinde become acquainted with many of the leading members of society during the period. When Hinde first met Hubbard, he found her to \"possess a great flow of animal spirits, full of humor, gay and lively inner temperament and disposition, with strong powers of mind, and at the same time active and sociable\". The couple married on September 24, 1767. According to a biography written by George Coles in 1857, Henry's statesmanlike eloquence and political principles made a strong impression on Hinde and shifted him from being a staunch royalist to a \"sturdy republican\".\n\nHinde took an active part in the American Revolutionary War serving as a surgeon with Patrick and in various campaigns and battles. At the time of the 1775 Gunpowder Incident, Hinde was Chief Surgeon for Patrick Henry. His involvement in it was the turning point that led him to embrace the cause of the oppressed colonies against Lord Dunmore and the English royalty. The Gunpowder Incident was a conflict early in the American Revolutionary War, between Lord Dunmore, the Royal Governor of the Colony of Virginia, and militia led by Henry. Hinde originally planned to take a front-line post in Henry's regiment, but when Henry was elected Governor, Hinde was instead appointed to inoculate all members of the continental service. Because of insufficient funds in the continental army, Hinde was forced to cover the costs of inoculations, which \"seriously impaired his private fortune\". One source states that Hinde amputated limbs during the war by the \"cart-load\". After the war, Hinde continued to live in Hanover County for many years, primarily practicing medicine.\n\nAfter the American Revolutionary War, Hinde moved his family from Virginia to Kentucky, having received a large land grant for his services in the war. One source describes the land grant as follows:\nAt the close of the war, having drawn no part of his salary, and from his great skill as a surgeon having endeared himself to the Virginians, in settling up his accounts he was presented with a land warrant, to be located in lands selected in Kentucky, leaving a blank within the warrant for the number of acres to filled by Dr Hinde himself. The blank was filled with twenty thousand, and placed in the hands of Patrick Henry to select and locate the lands.\n\nFor undisclosed reasons, Henry was unable to complete the land grant to Hinde due to surveying difficulties, who then used his nephew Hubbard Taylor to go to Kentucky, find the location, and complete the transaction. Hinde gave Taylor half of the lands for this service. The land was in Clark County, Kentucky, between Winchester and Lexington.\n\nDuring his early years in England, Hinde was a member of the Church of England, but he abandoned the church as an adult and had become a Deist. One biographer stated that for a time Hinde \"took pride and pleasure in ridiculing Christianity\". In later years, however, his religious views \"underwent a radical change\".\n\nIn 1798, Methodist ministers arrived in Hinde's neighborhood and began to convert people. Susanna, one of Hinde's daughters, converted, causing distress to the family. Hinde banished her from his home, and she went to live with her aunt forty miles away. However, this failed because the aunt had already converted, and Hinde's wife converted soon after. Hinde became convinced that the disorder was in their heads, and treated them with medical procedures of the day, such as a \"blistering plaster to the whole length of the spine, which he left on for several days\". Drake states that, through this \"measure of violence, he hoped to deter her from further attendance at places of public worship\". The procedures were painful, but his wife stated afterwards that \"it was a punishment, but I never was so happy in all my life\". Hinde later felt guilt for having banished his daughter and performed medical operations on his wife, and he converted to Methodism. His daughter returned home and his wife began attending Methodist gatherings regularly. Two of his daughters married traveling preachers, and another daughter converted to Methodism too. By the end of his life, Hinde was a devout Methodist. According to one account:\nAt another time he was taking a morning walk and met Gen. James Taylor, a relative by marriage, who said, 'Good-morning, doctor; where are you going?' 'I am going to heaven; where are you going, general?' The general, at that time, had some doubts about whether his road led to the same country, and made no reply; but it is hoped he found the way to everlasting life before he left the world.'\n\nOne of Hinde's grandchildren states that Hinde built \"little houses of sticks and wood\" where he would pray. The grandchildren called them \"Grandpa's prayer-houses\". Hinde could be heard praying from a \"considerable distance\".\n\nHinde married Mary Todd Hubbard, the daughter of Benjamin Hubbard, an English merchant, and they were married for 61 years. They had eight children that lived to adulthood. His daughter Ann Winston Hinde married Richard Southgate on July 30, 1799, in Newport, Kentucky. Hinde and his family were members of the Grace Methodist Episcopal Church in Newport, Kentucky.\n\nOne of Hinde's sons was Thomas S. Hinde, who was a cofounder of Mount Carmel, Illinois, and became a well-respected Methodist minister. Hinde's grandson Captain Charles T. Hinde was a successful businessman and riverboat captain. Charles was one of the principal investors in the Hotel del Coronado in San Diego, California, and inspired Frederick Hinde Zimmerman, Dr Hinde's great-grandson, to build the Grand Rapids Hotel in Mount Carmel, Illinois.\n\nIn his later life, Hinde lived with his daughter Mary McKinney of Newport, Kentucky.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7147072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7147072", "title": "Vole clock", "text": "Vole clock\n\nThe Vole clock is a method of dating archaeological strata using vole teeth. Investigations at sites across Europe have allowed construction of a detailed framework of how different vole species evolved over the last million years, and where and when specific species became extinct.\n\nFor many sites it is considered the most accurate way of dating, and also provides information on the climate and local environment e.g. in the Pleistocene. Dr. Francis Wenban-Smith of Southampton University, a Stone Age specialist on assignment for Oxford Archaeology, described the Vole clock as \"one of the wonders of modern science\".\n\n"}
