{"id": "1061549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061549", "title": "2000 SG344", "text": "2000 SG344\n\nBecause of its very Earth-like orbit and because it would have been near the Earth in 1971 (coinciding with the Apollo program), there was speculation that might not be an asteroid but a man-made object such as an S-IVB booster stage from a Saturn V rocket (cf. J002E3, the S-IVB booster of Apollo 12 which was mistaken for an asteroid.)\n\nUntil December 2004, it was considered to have the highest (though still very low) likelihood of any near-Earth object to impact Earth in the next 100 years. It is ranked a zero on the Torino scale of impact risk because of its small size (the scale is 0–10) and is listed on Sentry Risk Table. It was briefly surpassed in December 2004 by 99942 Apophis (which at the time was known only by its provisional designation ). The smaller asteroids and have a greater chance of impacting Earth.\n\nBased on 31 observations of made from May 1999 to October 2000, there is about a 1 in 417 chance that it will collide with Earth between 2069 and 2113. Assuming the object is a rocky asteroid, the impact energy released would be an estimated 1.1 megatons of TNT, which would create an impact crater approximately wide assuming it does not explode in the atmosphere.\n\nNASA is considering it as a possible target for a manned mission (Exploration Mission 2) using the Orion spacecraft, prior to a projected 2030 push to Mars. will be observable in April 2028 at an apparent magnitude of 19.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31737472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31737472", "title": "2011 SEC Softball Tournament", "text": "2011 SEC Softball Tournament\n\nThe 2011 SEC Softball Tournament was held at the Ole Miss Softball Complex on the campus of the University of Mississippi in Oxford, Mississippi on May 12 through May 14, 2011. The winner of the tournament received the conference's automatic bid to the 2011 NCAA Division I Softball Tournament. The Tennessee Lady Volunteers were the 2011 SEC Softball Tournament champions.\n\nThe seeding for the tournament is as follows:\n\"All times are Central Standard Time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "59208808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59208808", "title": "2018 Anchorage earthquake", "text": "2018 Anchorage earthquake\n\nOn November 30, 2018, at 8:29 a.m. AKST (17:29 UTC), a magnitude 7.0 earthquake hit Anchorage, Alaska. The earthquake's epicenter was near Joint Base Elmendorf–Richardson, about north of the city, and occurred at a depth of . It was followed six minutes later by a magnitude 5.7 aftershock centered north-northwest of the city. The earthquake could be felt as far away as Fairbanks. \n\nThe National Tsunami Warning Center—itself located inside the quake zone, in Palmer, Alaska, northeast of Anchorage—issued tsunami warnings for nearby coastal areas, including Cook Inlet and the Kenai Peninsula, but they were lifted shortly after.\n\nSouthern Alaska lies at the eastern end of the Aleutian Trench, where the Pacific Plate is subducting beneath the North American Plate. Near Anchorage, the plates are converging at a rate of 57 mm per year. The region has experienced severe earthquakes in the past, including several megathrust earthquakes. The 1964 earthquake, with a magnitude of 9.2, was the largest earthquake in American history and the second largest to ever be recorded anywhere in the world. Though earthquakes are common in Alaska, they often occur out at sea.\n\nThe earthquake had a magnitude of 7.0 on the moment magnitude scale using a centroid moment tensor inversion of the W-phase. The focal mechanism shows that the earthquake was a result of normal faulting. A fault dipping at 29° towards the east gives the best match to the observed seismic waveforms. The depth and mechanism are consistent with faulting within the down-going Pacific Plate. This infers that the earthquake was an intraslab earthquake within that plate, rather than at the plate boundary between the Pacific and North American Plates beneath the Anchorage area. This is a different mechanism than megathrust faults in the region, which do occur on the plate boundary itself. This faulting in the Pacific Plate is caused by downward bending while the plate is being forced under Alaska.\n\nOver 80 aftershocks of various magnitudes were recorded throughout the day, with at least three having magnitudes greater than 5.0. \n\nSevere damage to several buildings and a highway overpass near Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport was reported. There were no casualties reported. The Kenai Peninsula Borough School District reported that all students were safe.\n\nLandings at four airports were temporarily affected by the earthquake: the Ted Stevens International Airport, Adak Airport, Merrill Field Airport and Joint Base Elmendorf–Richardson. The Anchorage Police Department reported major infrastructure damage across the city. One police station's roof collapsed. Liquefaction was reported. Several traffic lights were knocked down, bringing traffic to a halt. Many roads were also damaged. The Glenn Highway was damaged to the point where officials stated it would likely take a long time to repair. A ramp connecting Minnesota Drive to area streets collapsed, as well as the surrounding hillside. A driver in an SUV who was on the section of destroyed highway was stranded, but uninjured. The Alaska Railroad had to suspend all operations due to severe damage at their operations center and unknown condition of tracks. The operators of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline shut the system down as a precaution; however, they reported that there is no known damage to the pipeline and it later resumed service.\n\nThe newsroom studio of CBS-affiliate KTVA in Anchorage was heavily damaged, but the channel remained on the air. The Alaska Airlines Center, a large sports complex on the campus of the University of Alaska Anchorage, flooded due to broken fire sprinkler pipes. Several trophy cases were also damaged. The nearby Wells Fargo Sports Complex suffered similar damage. In South Anchorage, Dimond High School had ceiling tiles and other debris littering the floor throughout the campus. Most schools in the Anchorage School District suffered damage. Along with Dimond High, Colony Middle, Colony High, Bartlett High School was heavily damaged. Colony Middle School also suffered damage to ceiling tiles, water pipes, and lights and was being evaluated for structural damage.. During the earthquake, a student suffered a broken wrist, and a custodian was injured by breaking glass at area schools.\n\nIn Wasilla, the family residence of former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, as well as the home of her parents, were both heavily damaged. No members of the Palin family were injured.\n\nPresident Donald Trump stated on Twitter, \"To the Great people of Alaska. You have been hit hard by a 'big one.' Please follow the directions of the highly trained professionals who are there to help you. Your Federal Government will spare no expense. God Bless you ALL!\" A federal disaster was declared shortly after the earthquake and the Federal Emergency Management Agency deployed personnel from the state emergency operations center at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson to conduct relief operations.\n\nAlaska Governor Bill Walker said \"It's been a 7.2 earthquake, but our response was a 10.\"\n\nAnchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz likewise declared a state of emergency for his city, and requested both state and federal assistance. The local public bus system, People Mover, ended service for the day following the earthquake. The city announced that regular bus service would resume the following day, and would be free of charge for the two days following the earthquake to help city residents get around on damaged roads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "113113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113113", "title": "532 BC", "text": "532 BC\n\nThe year 532 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 222 \" Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 532 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10962721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10962721", "title": "Aalst (play)", "text": "Aalst (play)\n\nAalst is a play by the Belgian stage director Pol Heyvaert. Based on real-life events that took place in the town of Aalst in 1999, the play recounts the murder of two children by their parents. It was originally performed in 2005 by the Ghent-based theatre company Victoria. Since then, it has toured extensively in Europe and in Canada.\n\nIn January 1999, in the suburban Belgian town of Aalst, Luc de Winne and Maggie Strobbe checked into a hotel room with their two children, a boy aged seven and an infant girl of three months. They killed the daughter by suffocating her with a pillow, and the son by stabbing him with a pair of scissors. They were subsequently arrested, tried and sentenced to life imprisonment. The case caused a sensation in Belgium and was the subject of massive coverage in the press and media.\n\nIn 2005, Pol Heyvaert, a veteran stage designer who had a long-standing relationship with the Victoria theatre company, gave the story dramatic form. Heyvaert and his co-writer Dimitri Verhulst drew extensively on original source material, including statements and interviews given by the accused, television footage of the trial and a documentary on the murder investigation. Heyvaert also designed and directed the play, his first outing as a stage director. \n\nThe format of the play is simple. Separated by a few feet, the couple sit on two chairs with a microphone stand in front of each. A white curtain hangs behind them. The stage is bare of any other furnishing. Over the next 70-odd minutes, the two are interrogated by a disembodied, authoritative voice, and the story of their lives and that of the murder of the children pours forth. \n\nIt transpires that both parents had had horrific childhoods. The woman had been sexually abused by her father while the man had been raised in foster care and had become a petty criminal at an early age. They are both unemployed and live off generous state benefits, supplemented by income from moonlighting. Both exhibit a sense of entitlement and a lack of responsibility. They order consumer goods off catalogues, including three television sets and five stereos, but never pay for these items. Their domestic arrangements are wanting as well. Their house is filthy and constantly in the dark, with the bulbs painted black. Their relationship too is abusive and codependent. The murder of the children is described at length and in detail. The parents excuse their actions by saying that they did not want their children to be taken away by the state and put into foster care, and that they did not want them to suffer in life as they themselves had done. At the very end of the play, doubt is thrown over the veracity of their testimony. \n\nWith its difficult subject-matter and frequently graphic detail, \"Aalst\" has been described as a 'disturbing' and 'complex' play, one that raises hard questions about individual morality and the welfare society. \n\nThe play has been produced in theatres and festivals across Europe. The Scottish writer Duncan McLean has also adapted \"Aalst\" into a Scottish version. In March 2007, this version made its UK debut at the Tramway theatre in Glasgow as a joint production of Victoria and the National Theatre of Scotland. Kate Dickie and David McKay played the lead roles under Heyvaert's direction. The play then went on tour and made its London debut in April 2007 at the Soho Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1476342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476342", "title": "Abe Lincoln in Illinois (play)", "text": "Abe Lincoln in Illinois (play)\n\nAbe Lincoln in Illinois is a play written by the American playwright Robert E. Sherwood in 1938. The play, in three acts, covers the life of President Abraham Lincoln from his childhood through his final speech in Illinois before he left for Washington. The play also covers his romance with Mary Todd and his debates with Stephen A. Douglas, and uses Lincoln's own words in some scenes. Sherwood received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1939 for his work.\n\nThe play premiered on Broadway on October 15, 1938, at the Plymouth Theatre and closed in December 1939 after 472 performances. Directed by Elmer Rice, it starred Raymond Massey as Lincoln, Muriel Kirkland (Mary Todd), Adele Longmire (Ann Rutledge), and Albert Phillips (Stephen A. Douglas). It subsequently transferred to the Grand Opera House in Chicago where it ran for 12 weeks from January 8 through March 30, 1940. Massey's role in the play came about as the result of a promise he had made to Sherwood six years previously to \"be there when he needed me\". It was the first production of the newly established Playwrights' Company.\n\nThe play has twice been revived on stage. In 1963 Hal Holbrook starred as Lincoln in an off-Broadway revival at the Phoenix Theatre. A second revival took place in 1993 at the Vivian Beaumont Theatre, with Sam Waterston as Lincoln, and direction by Gerald Gutierrez. The cast included Marissa Chibas (Ann Rutledge), David Huddleston (Judge Bowling Green), Robert Joy (Joshua Speed), Lizbeth MacKay (Mary Todd) and Brian Reddy (Stephen A. Douglas). The revival ran from November 29, 1993, to January 2, 1994.\n\nThe play takes place in and around New Salem, Illinois, in the 1830s, then in Springfield, Illinois, in the 1840s, and in Act III in Springfield in 1858 to 1861. It is based principally on the 1926 biography \"\" by Carl Sandburg, which covers Lincoln's life up to his inauguration as President. The play depicts Lincoln's evolution from unambitious backwoodsman to a champion of freedom, and relies on the audience's knowledge of Lincoln's subsequent career to color the portrayal of his character. Sherwood wrote the play as a riposte to isolationist sentiment in the United States in the lead-up to the Second World War; he had fought in the First World War but had been disappointed by the way the post-war world had turned out. The play emphasizes the need to overcome laissez-faire sentiment and to stand up and take firm political action for the public good. As its star Raymond Massey put it, \"If you substitute the word dictatorship for the word slavery throughout Sherwood's script, it becomes electric with meaning for our time.\"\n\nWhile much of the dialog is of Sherwood's invention, the play uses some of Lincoln's own words at various points. Lincoln is portrayed not as a saint or a fount of wisdom, but as a humble man of ideas who constantly questions himself and his ability to make a difference. He is haunted by premonitions of death and disaster, prefiguring the bloodshed of the American Civil War and his own assassination. Ann Rutledge, the first great love of his life, is portrayed as Lincoln sees her, as a selfless but ultimately unattainable embodiment of female perfection. His wife Mary, by contrast, is portrayed with an increasingly sharp edge that foreshadows her descent into insanity. Stephen A. Douglas, Lincoln's political opponent in 1858, is portrayed as an adept politician rather than as a villain.\n\nThe opening scene of the play depicts New Salem's schoolmaster teaching grammar to Lincoln and encouraging him to appreciate poetry and oratory. Lincoln speaks of his life, referring to his failures as a businessman, his fear of city people and the death of his mother, and expresses his appreciation of John Keats's poem \"On Death\".\n\nIn Scene 2, Lincoln meets a number of young politicians at the Rutledge Tavern in New Salem to explore the possibility of him running for the Illinois General Assembly. By now he is serving as the local postmaster. He convinces them that he would make a good candidate and notes that the pay would help him clear his debts. When the politicians leave he talks with the tavern-keeper's daughter, Ann Rutledge, and declares his love for her. Ann appears receptive and he declares his intention to run for the assembly.\n\nA year later, Scene 3 sees his friends discussing Lincoln's relative lack of success in his career as an assemblyman and his unrequited romance with Ann, which they feel is a hindrance. He bursts in, announces that Ann has just died, and declares that he has to \"die and be with her again, or I'll go crazy!\"\n\nScene 4 opens five years later with Lincoln now a 31-year-old lawyer in Springfield. He has been aged greatly by the stress of Ann's death, but has been more successful in his career and has managed to pay off some of his debt. He is opposed to slavery but rejects the cause of the Abolitionists, who he regards as \"a pack of hell-roaring fanatics\". Lincoln's friends urge him to re-enter politics but he disclaims any desire to \"get down into the blood-soaked arena and grapple with all the lions of injustice and oppression\". In a bit to shake him out of his lethargy, a friend introduces him to Mary Todd, the daughter of the president of the Bank of Kentucky.\n\nHalf a year has passed by the time of Scene 5, when the ambitious Mary decides that she will marry Lincoln. Her sister criticises her decision, calling him a \"lazy and shiftless\" boor. Mary defends Lincoln, saying that she wants to shape a new life for the couple.\n\nThe wedding is set to take place in Scene 6 but Lincoln has developed cold feet. A friend tries to persuade him not to cancel it, and Mary's brother-in-law advises him to \"keep a tight rein\" on her ambition for him to become President. Lincoln's clerk applauds his betrothal to someone who will push him to fight for the freedom of the slaves. Lincoln himself decides that his ambitions lie elsewhere, cancels the wedding and leaves Springfield.\n\nIn Scene 7, Lincoln meets a friend who is heading west and is confronted by the fact that the infamous decision in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" has effectively extended slavery there as well. The friend, who is travelling with a free black companion, says that he will go to Canada or establish a new free country if his companion and other black people cannot be free in the United States. Lincoln realises that the country is in peril and urges his friend not to give up. He prays for help from God and urges the Almighty to grant his friend's child and all men their birthrights.\n\nLincoln heads back to Springfield in Scene 8 and meets again with Mary Todd. He appeals to her to marry him, telling her, \"The way I must go is the way you have always wanted me to go.\" He promises to devote the rest of his life to doing \"what is right.\" Mary falls into his arms and declares that she loves him eternally.\n\nScene 9 opens with Lincoln and his rival senatorial candidate Stephen A. Douglas making opposing speeches on slavery in an Illinois town during the 1858 campaign for the U.S. Senate.\n\nJumping to 1860 in Scene 10, Lincoln and Mary sit in the parlor of their house with their boys, awaiting the arrival of senior politicians intent on sounding him out for the Republican Party's presidential nomination. Mary is angered by her eldest son's habit of smoking in the house and Lincoln's failure to tell her about the politicians' visit, though she recognizes the burden of her growing irritability, which prefigures her eventual insanity. The visitors conclude that in his \"curious, primitive way,\" Lincoln could be a winning presidential candidate.\n\nThe 1860 presidential election is the focus of Scene 11, in which Lincoln and Mary await the election results. By now they are quarreling openly. She tells him that even if he wins, \"it's ruined, for me. It's too late.\" Lincoln does win but regrets having had to fight \"the dirtiest campaign in the history of corrupt politics.\" As he leaves home with a Secret Service escort, he feels the full weight of his responsibilities.\n\nThe play concludes in Scene 12 with Lincoln preparing to depart from Springfield's railroad station (the present Lincoln Depot) and go to Washington, D.C. for his inauguration. His Secret Service bodyguards worry about protecting him in the face of the many death threats he has received even before taking office. Lincoln appears before a crowd and gives a farewell address. As the train pulls out, the crowd sings (anachronistically), \"His soul goes marching on.\"\n\nThe play was adapted into a film, also called \"Abe Lincoln in Illinois\", which was released in 1940 and was directed by John Cromwell. When Sherwood agreed to sell the film rights, he added a condition that Massey was to be given the starring role. After receiving an Oscar nomination for the film, Massey went on to portray Lincoln twice more in films and in two television adaptations, leading him to complain jokingly that he was \"the only actor ever typecast as a president.\" There were six television adaptations in all, in 1945, 1950, 1951, 1957, 1963 and 1964. Massey reprised his stage role in the 1950 and 1951 adaptations. The 1964 production in the Hallmark Hall of Fame series featured Jason Robards in the title role, and Kate Reid as Mary Todd.\n\nThe play was critically acclaimed for its original 1938 run. The \"Herald Tribune's\" reviewer, Richard Watts Jr., called it \"Not only the finest of modern stage biographies, but a lovely, eloquent, endearing tribute to all that is best in the spirit of democracy.\" Burns Mantle of the \"New York Daily News\" called it \"biographical drama with a soul\", while Richard Lockridge of the \"New York Evening Sun\" described it as \"a satisfying and deeply impressive play.\" The critic Brooks Atkinson called it Sherwood's \"finest play\" and commended it for furthering \"the principles of American liberty\" while still providing an honest presentation of Lincoln's formative years. It was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1939 by a majority vote of the prize jury, with the supporting jurors describing it as \"a competent play by an experienced dramatist, with the chief figure movingly presented, with the minor characters done adequately and adroitly.\" Many critics highlighted Massey's performance for praise; his preparation was so meticulous and obsessive that the critic David S. Kaufman suggested that he would not be satisfied until he was assassinated.\n\nThe 1993 revival was less positively received than its predecessors. The original had been seen as ground-breaking and complex, but by 1990s standards it was viewed as too long and outdated. Some critics praised its sweep and Sam Waterston's performance, but others, like David Richards of \"The New York Times\", felt it was too \"didactic or melodramatic\". He wrote, \"'Abe Lincoln in Illinois' is an endeavor of daunting dimensions...for all its loftiness of purpose and the generosity of Lincoln's own words, some of which are incorporated into the script, Sherwood's dramaturgy seems dismayingly earthbound today. When the dialogue is not clumsy... it smacks of simple-mindedness... When Lincoln finds his life's purpose and steels himself for the ordeals to come, Mr. Waterston is able to suggest great stature simply by standing tall and motionless. Linda Winer suggested that the TV miniseries had taken over as audiences' preferred format for such historical or biographical dramas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17793105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17793105", "title": "Accident on the Rampe de Laffrey (1975)", "text": "Accident on the Rampe de Laffrey (1975)\n\nIn an accident on the Rampe de Laffrey on April 2, 1975, 29 pilgrims from Sully-sur-Loire in Loiret were killed when their bus lost its brakes at the bottom of the road, causing it to fly over a ravine at a speed estimated at 120 kilometers an hour; it then crashed into a garden and overturned. The accident came on the heels of one in 1973 that killed 43, and was very similar to one that occurred along the same road in 1946, killing 18.\n\nAs a result of this crash, more careful regulation of electronic braking systems was instituted across France, as were annual inspections of heavy vehicles.\n"}
{"id": "43053421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43053421", "title": "Alptakin", "text": "Alptakin\n\nAlptakin (also known as Haftakin and Aftakin) was a Turkish military officer of the Buyids, and later the ruler of Damascus.\n\nHe was a freedman of the Buyid ruler of Iraq, Izz al-Dawla Bakhtiyar. Nothing further is known about him until in 973, when he joined the rebellion of the Turkish officer Sebük-Tegin, who managed to occupy Baghdad and many other parts of Iraq. The Turkish rebels under Sebük-Tegin then besieged Wasit, where Izz al-Dawla had fortified himself. Sebük-Tegin died during the siege, and Alptakin was shortly chosen as the new leader of the Turks. Meanwhile, a Buyid army under Izz al-Dawla's cousin Adud al-Dawla was marching towards Iraq, and by 975 managed to completely defeat the rebels at the Diyala River.\n\nAfter his defeat at the hands of the Buyids, along with ca. 300 of his followers, Alptakin fled to Syria, where they managed to capture Hims. Alptakin then allied himself with the Qarmatians, and in the winter of 975 invaded the Mediterranean coast and laid siege to Fatimid city of Sidon. He shortly managed to capture the city, resulting in the massacre of 4,000 Fatimid troops. He then captured Tiberias, and marched towards to Damascus, which he took without much resistance. The Fatimid Caliph al-Aziz Billah then sent an army under his general Jawhar, who managed to reconquer the Mediterranean coast and reach as far as Damascus, which he besieged.\nAlptakin's Qarmatian allies soon arrived, and managed to force the Fatimids to lift the siege. The Fatimid army then fled to Ramla, but quickly abandoned it, leaving the city open to a Qarmatian invasion. The combined army of Alptakin and the Qarmatians then besieged Ascalon, where the Fatimid army had fled to. After a long siege which lasted over a year, the Fatimids agreed to make a peace treaty: Alptakin would receive Palestine, while the northern border of the Fatimid domain was set at Gaza. To make the treaty more palatable to the Fatimids, Alptakin agreed to recognize the Fatimid Caliph as his suzerain.\n\nIn 978, Izz al-Dawla, whose territories had been conquered by Adud al-Dawla, fled along with his two brothers and other Dailamite followers to Damascus, where they were warmly received by Alptakin, who incorporated the Dailamites into his army. Meanwhile, a new Fatimid army under al-Aziz himself was marching towards Damascus, and a battle ensued between the Turks and the Fatimids near Ramla; Alptakin charged the left wing of the Fatimids, killing many. However, the Fatimids turned the tide of the battle by making a counter-attack on the centre and right wing of Alptakin's army, killing ca. 20,000 of his men.\n\nAlptakin managed to flee from the battlefield to the desert, where he almost died of thirst, but was found by the leader of the Tayy tribe and an old friend of his, Mufarrij ibn Daghfal ibn al-Jarrah. Alptakin was brought to the latter's home, where he was treated with honour. During his stay the latter's home, however, Mufarrij betrayed him and gave him to al-Aziz in exchange for 100,000 gold dinars.\n\nAlptakin was then taken to the Fatimid capital of Cairo, where he was honourably treated by al-Aziz, who incorporated Alptakin along with his Turkish followers into the Fatimid army. However, Alptakin was later poisoned by al-Aziz's vizier, Yaqub ibn Killis.\n\n"}
{"id": "21654790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21654790", "title": "Biathlon World Championships 1969", "text": "Biathlon World Championships 1969\n\nThe 9th Biathlon World Championships were held in 1969 in Zakopane, Poland.\n"}
{"id": "20115862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20115862", "title": "Boobs! The Musical", "text": "Boobs! The Musical\n\nBoobs! The Musical: The World According to Ruth Wallis is a musical revue with lyrics and music by 1950s and 1960s star Ruth Wallis. Using 23 of Wallis' songs, \"Boobs!\" tells the story of Ruth Wallis' international career and struggles in performing her naughty songs. \"Boobs! The Musical\" opened at the Triad Theater in New York City on May 19, 2003, to critical praise.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" review noted that \"Boobs! The Musical\" \"exudes a joyous innocence\" and featured \"a lot of talent onstage\". \"Boobs!\" eventually transferred to Dillon's Reprise Room; by closing date it had played nearly 300 performances. It had subsequent long runs in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 2004, and in Wichita, Kansas, in 2005, with international productions beginning in New Zealand 2017. Broadway artists Lawrence Leritz was producer/choreographer and Donna Drake, director. Also notable were the costumes by J. Kevin Draves and Robert Pease and set by Eric Harriz. The book adaptation was written by Steve Mackes and Michael Whaley.\n\n\"Boobs!\" originally had a workshop at The Pulse Ensemble Theatre on the Off Broadway 42nd Street Theatre Row in December 2000. Various notable cast members from the three New York productions included J. Robert Spencer, Jenny-Lynn Suckling, Robert Hunt, Kristy Cates, Clyde Alves, Alena Watters, Brad Bradley, Tony Falcon, Benjie Randall and the New York theatre debut of Gennifer Flowers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40248052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40248052", "title": "Bárcenas affair", "text": "Bárcenas affair\n\nThe Bárcenas Affair is a corruption scandal in Spain that affects the People’s Party (PP), one of the country´s main political parties. Following revelations that Luis Bárcenas, who served as party treasurer and senator, held 48 million euros in Swiss bank accounts, extracts of handwritten accounts, the so-called “Bárcenas papers” (\"los papeles de Bárcenas\") were published in the press. Those accounts allegedly indicate that the PP kept, for many years, a parallel bookkeeping system to record undeclared and illegal cash donations, and used them to pay bonuses to senior members of the party as well as for daily party expenses.\n\nThe documents cover the period from 1990 to 2009, and suggest that regular cash payments had been made from a slush fund. Those include payments of 25,000 euros ($34,000) a year, for eleven years, to the current Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, including, according to \"El Mundo\", during three of the years that he served as minister in José María Aznar's government.\n\nOther leading party figures allegedly involved in the scandal include former ministers Rodrigo Rato, (also a former director general of the IMF, and now serving time for a separate corruption case), Ángel Acebes, Federico Trillo, and former secretaries-general, who also served as ministers, Francisco Álvarez-Cascos, who allegedly received 421,693 euros between 1990 and 2004, and Javier Arenas, who allegedly received 234,320 euros, the party’s current secretary general and Minister of Defence, María Dolores de Cospedal, the most senior party member summoned to date to appear before the investigating judge. and the President of the Senate, Pío García-Escudero \n\nOn 1 August 2013, after “weeks of holding out against demands that he give some sort of explanation for the corruption and illegal funding scandal that has engulfed” his party, Rajoy was finally forced to address Spain's parliament by the threat of a motion of censure. While admitting to having handled the scandal badly, he denied taking illegal funds.\n\nOn 22 November 2013, the investigating judge released a writ where he claimed that circumstantial evidence existed that the PP had maintained a parallel accounting system to the official one it presented to the Audit Court.\n\nThe trial for the related Gürtel case began in 2016. The verdicts in the first part of the Gürtel case, reached in 2018, had implications for the \"Caja B\" case, which was\nwas scheduled for trial later that year. \n\nThe Bárcenas affair broke out on 18 January 2013, when Spain's leading center-right daily, \"El Mundo\", revealed that the PP treasurer, Luis Bárcenas had, until stepping down in 2009 after being named a defendant in the Gürtel political corruption case, used the slush fund to pay out monthly amounts, ranging from 5,000 to 15,000 euros, to leading members of the party.\n\nOn 31 January 2013, Spain’s leading center-left daily, \"El País\", in turn published what became known as the \"Bárcenas papers\", which consist of facsimile excerpts from handwritten ledgers in Bárcenas’ hand.\n\nCurrent senate president Pío García Escudero, later stated that one of the payments that figure in Bárcenas’ handwriting corresponded to a cash loan he had been given to repair damage to his home after a terrorist attack, and on 13 August 2013, Cristóbal Páez, a former PP finance manager, testified that he had received 12,000 euros in two payments in 2007 and 2008, as reflected in Bárcenas' handwritten notes.\n\nAt the end of June 2013, the investigating judge, Pablo Ruz, faced with the risk of a defendant with access to considerable offshore funds fleeing the country, ordered that Bárcenas be remanded in prison without bail, on charges of tax fraud and money-laundering.\n\nOn 7 July 2013, \"El Mundo\" published an exclusive interview between Bárcenas and its editor-in-chief, Pedro J. Ramírez, in which the former admitted the authenticity of the so-called \"Bárcenas papers\", which he had initially denied out of loyalty to his party. He likewise admitted that both he and the previous party treasurer, Álvaro Lapuerta, had received cash donations from real estate agents and other businessmen in \"bags, suitcases and briefcases\" that were used as a slush fund.\n\nSummonses to testify before the High Court were issued to the following people:\n\n"}
{"id": "57304877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57304877", "title": "Coffee Fest Sarajevo", "text": "Coffee Fest Sarajevo\n\nCoffee Fest Sarajevo is an international coffee festival that is held annually in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The festival was established in 2014 by the \"Profesional\" Association in cooperation with the Bosnian Ministry of Trade. Festival partners include Robert Bosch GmbH and Tesla, Inc. It is held in numerous venues across the city, which include the Skenderija Center and MyFace. \n\nThe first edition of Coffee Fest Sarajevo was held from 24-27 February 2014 and hosted 29 brands that were showcased on 18 exhibition booths. Participating brands came from Brazil, Croatia, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Lebanon, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Tunisia, Turkey, Serbia, Switzerland and the United States. It attracted over 10,000 visitors from Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighboring countries. \n\nExhibitors at the Coffee Fest Sarajevo are manufacturers, distributors and companies whose business include:\n\nThe organizers provide free training for over 50 baristas per edition. A team of international trainers donate their time, energy and knowledge while also showcasing their moves to audiences. Barista Training has been headed by the Delta Cafés company from Portugal since 2015. \n\nAn annual competition in Latte art design is also organized. A panel of international baristas judges the designs, with the winner receiving a cash prize. \n"}
{"id": "9021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9021", "title": "Dot-com bubble", "text": "Dot-com bubble\n\nThe dot-com bubble (also known as the dot-com boom, the tech bubble, and the Internet bubble) was a historic economic bubble and period of excessive speculation that occurred roughly from 1995 to 2000, a period of extreme growth in the usage and adaptation of the Internet.\n\nThe Nasdaq Composite stock market index, which included many Internet-based companies, peaked in value on March 10, 2000 before crashing. The burst of the bubble, known as the dot-com crash, lasted from March 11, 2000 to October 9, 2002. During the crash, many online shopping companies, such as Pets.com, Webvan, and Boo.com, as well as communication companies, such as Worldcom, NorthPoint Communications and Global Crossing failed and shut down. Others, such as Cisco, whose stock declined by 86%, and Qualcomm, lost a large portion of their market capitalization but survived, and some companies, such as eBay and Amazon.com, declined in value but recovered quickly.\n\nIn 1993, the release of the Mosaic web browser made access to the World Wide Web possible (prior Internet services like Usenet, Gopher, FTP, etc existed but HTTP was the new invention which triggered this growth). Internet usage increased as a result of the reduction of the \"digital divide\" and advances in connectivity, uses of the Internet, and computer education. Between 1990 and 1997, the percentage of households in the United States owning computers increased from 15% to 35% as computer ownership progressed from a luxury to a necessity. This marked the shift to the Information Age, an economy based on information technology, and many new companies were founded.\n\nAt the same time, relatively lower interest rates increased the availability of capital compared to the 1970s and 1980s, where bouts of extreme inflation led to historically high interest rates to contain/reduce high inflation. The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, which lowered the top marginal capital gains tax in the United States, also made people more willing to make more speculative investments. Alan Greenspan, the former Chair of the Federal Reserve, allegedly fueled investments in the stock market by putting a positive spin on stock valuations. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 was expected to result in many new technologies, and people wanted to profit from them.\n\nAs a result of these factors, many investors were eager to invest, at any valuation, in any dot-com company, especially if it had one of the Internet-related prefixes or a \".com\" suffix in its name. Venture capital was easy to raise. Investment banks, which profited significantly from initial public offerings (IPO), fueled speculation and encouraged investment in technology. A combination of rapidly increasing stock prices in the quaternary sector of the economy and confidence that the companies would turn future profits created an environment in which many investors were willing to overlook traditional metrics, such as the price–earnings ratio, and base confidence on technological advancements, leading to a stock market bubble. Between 1995 and 2000, the Nasdaq Composite stock market index rose 400%. It reached a price–earnings ratio of 200, dwarfing the peak price–earnings ratio of 80 for the Japanese Nikkei 225 during the Japanese asset price bubble of 1991. In 1999, shares of Qualcomm rose in value by 2,619%, 12 other large-cap stocks each rose over 1,000% value, and 7 additional large-cap stocks each rose over 900% in value. Even though the Nasdaq Composite rose 85.6% and the S&P 500 Index rose 19.5% in 1999, more stocks fell in value than rose in value as investors sold stocks in slower growing companies to invest in Internet stocks.\n\nAn unprecedented amount of personal investing occurred during the boom and stories of people quitting their jobs to engage in full-time day trading were common. The news media took advantage of the public's desire to invest in the stock market; an article in \"The Wall Street Journal\" suggested that investors \"re-think\" the \"quaint idea\" of profits, and CNBC reported on the stock market with the same level of suspense as many networks provided to the broadcasting of sports events.\n\nAt the height of the boom, it was possible for a promising dot-com company to become a public company via an IPO and raise a substantial amount of money even if it had never made a profit—or, in some cases, realized any material revenue. People who received employee stock options became instant paper millionaires when their companies executed IPOs; however, most employees were barred from selling shares immediately due to lock-up periods. The most successful entrepreneurs, such as Mark Cuban, sold their shares or entered into hedges to protect their gains.\n\nMost dot-com companies incurred net operating losses as they spent heavily on advertising and promotions to harness network effects to build market share or mind share as fast as possible, using the mottos \"get big fast\" and \"get large or get lost\". These companies offered their services or products for free or at a discount with the expectation that they could build enough brand awareness to charge profitable rates for their services in the future. In January 2000, there were 16 dot-com commercials during Super Bowl XXXIV, each costing $2 million for a 30-second spot.\n\nThe \"growth over profits\" mentality and the aura of \"new economy\" invincibility led some companies to engage in lavish spending on elaborate business facilities and luxury vacations for employees. Upon the launch of a new product or website, a company would organize an expensive event called a dot com party.\n\nTelecommunications equipment providers, convinced that the future economy would require ubiquitous broadband access, went deeply into debt to improve their networks with high-speed equipment and fiber optic cables. In many areas, such as the Dulles Technology Corridor in Virginia, governments funded technology infrastructure and created favorable business and tax law to encourage companies to expand. In Europe, mobile phone companies overspent on 3G licences, which led them deep into debt. The investments in infrastructure were far out of proportion to cash flow. These were major factors that led to the telecoms crash.\n\nAround the turn of the millennium, spending on technology was volatile as companies prepared for the Year 2000 problem, which, when the clocks changed to the year 2000, actually had minimal impact.\n\nOn January 10, 2000, America Online, led by Steve Case and Ted Leonsis, announced a merger with Time Warner, led by Gerald M. Levin. The merger was the largest to date and was questioned by many analysts.\n\nIn February 2000, with the Year 2000 problem no longer a worry, Alan Greenspan announced plans to aggressively raise interest rates, which led to significant stock market volatility as analysts disagreed as to whether or not technology companies would be affected by higher borrowing costs.\n\nOn March 10, 2000, the NASDAQ Composite stock market index peaked at 5,048.62.\n\nOn March 13, 2000, news that Japan had once again entered a recession triggered a global sell off that disproportionately affected technology stocks.\n\nOn March 15, 2000, Yahoo! and eBay ended merger talks and the Nasdaq fell 2.6% but the S&P 500 Index rose 2.4% as investors shifted from strong performing technology stocks to poor performing established stocks.\n\nOn March 20, 2000, \"Barron's\" featured a cover article titled \"Burning Up; Warning: Internet companies are running out of cash -- fast\", which predicted the imminent bankruptcy of many internet companies. This led many people to rethink their investments. That same day, Microstrategy announced a revenue restatement due to aggressive accounting practices. Its stock price, which had risen from $7 per share to as high as $333 per share in a year, fell $140 per share, or 62%, in a day. The next day, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates, leading to an inverted yield curve, although stocks rallied temporarily.\n\nOn April 3, 2000, judge Thomas Penfield Jackson issued his \"conclusions of law\" in the case of United States v. Microsoft Corp. (2001) and ruled that Microsoft was guilty of monopolization and tying in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. This led to a one-day 15% decline in the value of shares in Microsoft and a 350-point, or 8%, drop in the value of the Nasdaq. Many people saw the legal actions as bad for technology in general. That same day, Bloomberg published a widely read article that stated: \"It's time, at last, to pay attention to the numbers\".\n\nOn Friday, April 14, 2000, the Nasdaq Composite index fell 9%, ending a week in which it fell 25%. Investors were forced to sell stocks ahead of Tax Day, the due date to pay taxes on gains realized in the previous year.\n\nBy June 2000, dot-com companies were forced to rethink their advertising campaigns.\n\nOn November 9, 2000, Pets.com, a much-hyped company that had backing from Amazon.com, went out of business only nine months after completing its IPO. By that time, most internet stocks had declined in value by 75% from their highs, wiping out $1.755 trillion in value.\n\nIn January 2001, just three dot-com companies bought advertising spots during Super Bowl XXXV: E-Trade, Monster.com, and Yahoo! HotJobs. The September 11 attacks accelerated the stock-market drop later that year.\n\nInvestor confidence was further eroded by several accounting scandals and the resulting bankruptcies, including the Enron scandal in October 2001, the Worldcom scandal in June 2002, and the Adelphia Communications Corporation scandal in July 2002.\n\nBy the end of the stock market downturn of 2002, stocks had lost $5 trillion in market capitalization since the peak. At its trough on October 9, 2002, the NASDAQ-100 had dropped to 1,114, down 78% from its peak.\n\nAfter venture capital was no longer available, the operational mentality of executives and investors completely changed. A dot-com company's lifespan was measured by its burn rate, the rate at which it spent its existing capital. Many dot-com companies ran out of capital and went through liquidation. Supporting industries, such as advertising and shipping, scaled back their operations as demand for services fell. However, many companies were able to endure the crash; 48% of dot-com companies survived through 2004, albeit at lower valuations.\n\nSeveral companies and their executives were accused or convicted of fraud for misusing shareholders' money, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission levied large fines against investment firms including Citigroup and Merrill Lynch for misleading investors.\n\nAfter suffering losses, retail investors transitioned their investment portfolios to more cautious positions.\n\nLayoffs of programmers resulted in a general glut in the job market. University enrollment for computer-related degrees dropped noticeably. Anecdotes of unemployed programmers going back to school to become accountants or lawyers were common.\n\nFailed startups liquidated all of their computer equipment and office equipment such as Herman Miller Aeron chairs.\n\nAs growth in the information technology sector stabilized, companies consolidated, some, such as Amazon.com, eBay, and Google gained market share and came to dominate their respective fields. The information technology industry came to more closely resemble other sectors of the economy, albeit with still a faster growth rate and higher valuations than other sectors. There are now many information technology companies ranked at the top of the Fortune 500.\n\nIn a 2015 book, venture capitalist Fred Wilson, who funded dot-com companies and lost 90% of his net worth when the bubble burst, said about the dot-com bubble: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56355063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56355063", "title": "El Junquito raid", "text": "El Junquito raid\n\nThe El Junquito raid (), whose official codename was Operación Gedeón also refererred to as El Junquito massacre, was a police and military raid that occurred on 15 January 2018 in El Junquito, Capital District, Venezuela, which resulted in the death of rebel Óscar Pérez and members of his movement.\n\nFor years, Venezuela has suffered from a political and economic crisis following the presidency of Hugo Chávez and his successor Nicolás Maduro. While working as a law enforcement agent, Óscar Pérez stated that he witnessed deep levels of corruption within the Bolivarian Government's structure, experiencing the collaboration between state authorities and pro-government gangs known as the Colectivos in acts of theft and extortion while also observing the movement of cocaine by government officials with full impunity, singling out Néstor Reverol as an official who hampered his investigations into the matters.\n\nPérez expressed in interviews how he had thought about incorporating his helicopter skills in a protest for some time. Finally in mid-June 2017, Pérez's brother was murdered near Carabobo Park in Caracas. It was determined that his brother was stabbed to death for the theft of his cell phone.\n\nWeeks later on the afternoon of 27 June 2017, a video was released showing men with assault rifles flanking Pérez, stating that \"We are nationalists, patriots and institutionalists. This fight is not with the rest of the state forces, it is against the tyranny of this government\".\n\nHours after the video was released, Pérez was seen piloting a CICPC helicopter over the Supreme Tribunal of Justice with a banner on the side reading \"350 Liberty\", a reference to Article 350 of the constitution which states that \"The people of Venezuela ... shall disown any regime, legislation or authority that violates democratic values, principles and guarantees or encroaches upon human rights\". While the helicopter was near the Supreme Court, gunfire was heard in the area. President Maduro stated that a military rebellion had occurred while opposition officials said that the actions were staged so Maduro could justify a crackdown on those who oppose his government and the constituent assembly.\n\nOn 18 December, Pérez successfully implemented \"Operation Genesis\", which resulted in the theft of 26 rifles and 3 automatic pistols from a command station of the National Guard in Los Teques, Miranda state. The surprise attack resulted in no deaths, with Pérez and about 50 other rebels gagging and tying up the National Guardsmen, ridiculing them for supporting the Bolivarian Government, asking \"Why do you continue to defend drug traffickers, some real terrorists? ... Be worthy of the uniform you are wearing, you are irresponsible, traitors to the country for not doing something\". The group then destroyed images of President Maduro and Hugo Chávez, Maduro's predecessor.\n\nPresident Maduro responded, stating \"Wherever they appear, I have ordered the Armed Forces, 'Lead for the terrorist groups! Lead them, compadre!' ... zero tolerance with terrorist groups that threaten with weapons the peace of the Republic.\"\n\nOn 15 January 2018, the Venezuelan Army and the Venezuelan National Guard launched an operation after discovering the location of Pérez, who was held up in the El Junquito parish of Capital District. Around 4:00 AM VST (8:00 AM UTC), about 500 troops were deployed to attack Pérez and his compatriots at their location. Around 6:45 AM VST (10:45 AM UTC), Pérez released video stating that his group had been fired upon, though he mentioned that negotiations were underway.\n\nBy about 8:30 AM VST (12:30 PM UTC), a firefight between the two factions ensued. Pérez and his team initially resisted the attack, though once he realized they were surrounded, Pérez attempted to surrender in order to spare the lives of the rebels as well as the family living in the home. Around 9:07 AM VST (1:07 PM UTC), troops began to fire rocket-propelled grenades at the group's location. Pérez then posted a video on the internet showing his face covered in blood stating that the police had not stopped attacking his group with snipers, grenades, grenade launchers and rocket-propelled grenades, with Pérez and others saying that authorities were only there on orders to kill them. During the raid, Pérez contacted several people on his phone, calling his former boss at CICPC pleading that he send staff of the attorney general and the media to provide coverage of the raid and to grant him a route for a safe surrender. Finally, a Russian-made BTR-80A was depolyed to the area and arrived to the site around 11:45 VST (3:45 PM UTC), where it proceeded to fire at the rebel location.\n\nAfter hours of shooting, Pérez's group succumbed to the Venezuelan forces around 12:00 PM VST (4:00 PM UTC), with members of the group likely being executed by troops according to Bellingcat and Forensic Architecture. Pérez and five of his men (Daniel Enrique Soto Torres, Abraham Lugo Ramos, Jairo Lugo Ramos, José Alejandro Díaz Pimentel, Abraham Israel Agostini) were shot dead while six others were arrested. His death was confirmed by the Venezuelan Police one day later. Pérez was reportedly observed in the morgue with three bullet wounds to the head, with official death certificates showing a similar pattern of shots to the head among his fallen rebels. Two days later, it was revealed that a pregnant woman and a child were also killed during the raid.\n\nThe police and the Colectivos also suffered losses, with two officers killed and five injured while one member of a colectivo from 23 de Enero was killed. The raid was described as highly unorganized, with Venezuelan troops being observed laughing and firing indiscriminately towards Pérez's, possibly causing friendly fire incidents. Evidence was never revealed by the Venezuelan Government and the home where the rebels were discovered was quickly destroyed.\n\nThe raid was met with outrage from the Venezuelan people and accusations of extrajudicial killing.\n\nVenezuelan President Nicolás Maduro applauded the operation, describing it as being an \"order fulfilled\" and said that \"every group that is armed and financed to bring terrorism will suffer the same fate\". Some leading opposition figures including Maria Corina Machado, Antonio Ledezma and Luisa Ortega Díaz condemned his killing.\n\nThe international media and some politicians and citizens all over the world defined what has happened in El Junquito as a massacre and harshly criticized Maduro and his government.\n\nSome of the countries were: Bolivia, Brasil, Colombia, with criticism from former President Andrés Pastrana, United States, with angry comments from Senator Marco Rubio, Guatemala, Paraguay, Uruguay, Spain and France. Additionally, the main media in Italy (including Corriere della Sera, La Stampa, Repubblica, Il Giornale) reported the news of the massacre on the first page for a full week.\n"}
{"id": "1293823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1293823", "title": "Feast of the Cross", "text": "Feast of the Cross\n\nIn the Christian liturgical calendar, there are several different Feasts of the Cross, all of which commemorate the cross used in the crucifixion of Jesus. While Good Friday is dedicated to the Passion of Christ and the Crucifixion, these days celebrate the cross itself, as the instrument of salvation. The most common day of commemoration is September 14 in Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nIn English, it is called The Exaltation of the Holy Cross in the official translation of the Roman Missal, while the 1973 translation called it The Triumph of the Cross. In some parts of the Anglican Communion the feast is called Holy Cross Day, a name also used by Lutherans. The celebration is also sometimes called Holy Rood Day.\n\nAccording to Christian tradition, the True Cross was discovered in 326 by Saint Helena, the mother of the Roman Emperor Constantine the Great, during a pilgrimage she made to Jerusalem. The Church of the Holy Sepulchre was then built at the site of the discovery, by order of Helena and Constantine. The church was dedicated nine years later, with a portion of the cross. One-third remained in Jerusalem, one-third was brought to Rome and deposited in the Sessorian basilica Santa Croce in Gerusalemme (Holy Cross in Jerusalem), and one-third was taken to Constantinople to make the city impregnable.\n\nThe date of the feast marks the dedication of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in 335. This was a two-day festival: although the actual consecration of the church was on September 13, the cross itself was brought outside the church on September 14 so that the clergy and faithful could pray before the True Cross, and all could come forward to venerate it.\n\nRed is the usual liturgical color in churches that follow such traditions. In Western Christianity, red vestments are worn at church services conducted on this day as well as Pentecost and other times of celebration. In the Roman Catholic liturgical observance, the red is worn only on this day, and if the day falls on a Sunday, its Mass readings are used instead of those for the occurring Sunday in Ordinary Time. The lectionaries of the Church of England (and other Anglican churches) and Western Rite Orthodoxy also stipulate red as the liturgical color for 'Holy Cross Day.'\n\nIn Eastern-Rite Orthodox Churches that use various liturgical colors, red vestments are also worn. Yet in these Orthodox churches, the wearing of red continues for a week after the feast.\n\nIn Western Rite Orthodox Parishes, the Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of the calendar week after the one in which the feast day occurs, are designated as one of each year's four sets of Ember days. In new calendar Western Rite Orthodox Parishes (e.g. those under the Antiochian Diocese) these ember days are the week following 14 September. In old calendar Western Rite Orthodox Parishes (e.g. those under the Russian Diocese) these ember days are the week following 27 September.\n\nUntil 1969, these ember days were a part of the liturgical calendar of the Roman Catholic Church. Organization of these celebrations in the ordinary form is now left to the decision of episcopal conferences in view of local conditions and customs. The ember days are still observed in the calendar of the Roman Rite's \"extraordinary form\" and in the Anglican Ordinariate calendar.\n\nSeptember 14 is the titular feast of the Congregation of Holy Cross, The Companions of the Cross and the Episcopal Church's Order of the Holy Cross. This date also marked the beginning of the period of fasting, except on Sundays and ending on Easter Sunday, that was stipulated for Carmelites in the Carmelite Rule of St. Albert of 1247. The Rule of St. Benedict also prescribes this day as the beginning of monastic winter (i.e., the period when there are three nocturns of psalms and readings at matins) which also ends at Easter.\n\nThe Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, celebrated every year on September 14, recalls three events: the finding of the True Cross by Saint Helena, the mother of the emperor Constantine; the dedication of churches built by Constantine on the site of the Holy Sepulchre and Mount Calvary; and the restoration of the True Cross to Jerusalem in AD 629 by the Byzantine emperor Heraclius after it had fallen into the hands of the Persian emperor Chosroes II in the AD 614 Sasanian conquest of Jerusalem.Under emperor Constantine, around 327, Macarius, Bishop of Jerusalem, caused excavations to be made in order to ascertain the location of Calvary as well as that of the Holy Sepulchre. It was in the course of these excavations that the wood of the Cross was recovered. It was determined by Macarius to be authentic (the crosses of the Two Thieves were also recovered) and for it Constantine built the Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre.\n\nThe feast was observed in Rome before the end of the seventh century. The Second Council of Nicæa of 787, drew the distinction between veneration of the cross and worship or \"latria\", \"which, according to the teaching of the faith, belongs to the Divine nature alone.\" Petavius noted that this cult must be considered as not belonging to the substance of religion, but as being one of the things not absolutely necessary to salvation.\n\nThe honor paid to the image passes to the prototype; and he who adores the image, adores the person whom it represents.\n\nIn the Gallican usage, beginning about the seventh century, the \"Feast of the Cross\" was celebrated on May 3, and called \"Crouchmas\" (for \"Cross Mass\") or \"Roodmas\". When the Gallican and Roman practices were combined, the September date was assigned to commemorating the rescue of the Cross from the Sassanid Persians, and the May date was kept as the Finding of the Holy Cross or Invention of the True Cross to commemorate the finding. (\"Invention\" is a rendering of the Latin term \"inventio\" \"discovery\".) Pope John XXIII removed this feast in 1960, so that the General Roman Calendar now celebrates the Holy Cross only on September 14. However, some usus antiquior communities still observe a feast on May 3.\n\nMay 3 is the date given in the Church of England's \"Book of Common Prayer\" liturgy, but the new \"Common Worship\" liturgy, following the Roman Catholic Church's lead, celebrates Holy Cross Day on September 14. The feast day joined the western calendar in the 7th century A.D.\n\nThe Syriac Church of the East celebrates the finding of the Cross on September 13, and considers it to be a major feast. The Syriac Church considers the Sign of the Cross to be a seventh sacrament, by which all of the other sacraments are sealed and perfected (it takes the place of marriage, which they do not name in their traditional list of sacraments). Saranaya (Syriac) hold a \"shara\" every year in cities like Chicago, Illinois, and Modesto, California, and other parts of the world. The \"shara\" in Modesto is held every Sunday prior to September 13 at East La Loma Park, where they sacrifice lambs in remembrance of the Feast Of the Cross. People gather and feast and sing and dance to celebrate a happy day.\n\nIn Byzantine liturgical observance, the Universal Exaltation (also called Elevation in Greek Churches) of the Precious and Life-creating Cross commemorates both the finding of the True Cross in 326 and its recovery from the Persians in 628, and is one of the Twelve Great Feasts of the church year. September 14 is always a fast day and the eating of meat, dairy products and fish is prohibited. The Feast of the Exaltation has a one-day forefeast and an eight-day afterfeast. The Saturday and Sunday before and after September 14 are also commemorated with special Epistle and Gospel readings about the Cross at the Divine Liturgy.\n\nOn the eve of the feast before small vespers the priest, having prepared a tray with the cross placed on a bed of fresh basil leaves or flowers, covered with an aër (liturgical veil), places it on the table of prothesis; after that service, the priest carries the tray on his head preceded by lighted candles and the deacon incensing the cross, processes to the holy table (altar), in the centre whereof he lays the tray, in the place of the Gospel Book, the latter being set upright at the back of the altar. Those portions of the vespers and matins which in sundry local customs take place before the Icon of the Feast (\"e.g.\",the chanting of the Polyeleos and the Matins Gospel) instead take place in front of the Holy Table. The bringing out of the cross and the exaltation ceremony occur at matins.\n\nThe cross remains in the centre of the temple throughout the afterfeast, and the faithful venerate it whenever they enter or leave the church. Finally, on the leave-taking (\"apodosis\") of the feast, the priest and deacon will incense around the cross, there will be a final veneration of the cross, and then they will solemnly bring the cross back into the sanctuary through the Holy Doors. This same pattern of bringing out the cross, veneration, and returning the cross at the end of the celebration is repeated at a number of the lesser times.\n\nOn March 6, the liturgical calendar of the Eastern Orthodox Church, commemorates the \"Uncovering of the Precious Cross and the Precious Nails by Empress Saint Helen\"—that is to say, the anniversary of the actual discovery; the date for the September 14 feast was determined by the consecration of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. This is a lesser feast, and does not have any of the liturgical peculiarities of the September 14 feast.\n\nThe Armenian Apostolic Church observes a five-day fast, called the Fast of the Holy Cross from September 10 through September 14, in preparation for the Feast of the Holy Church in view of the Holy Cross, which they celebrate on September 15. September 16 is observed as the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross (\"Khachverats\" in Armenian), a feast which continues for several days thereafter. It is counted as one of the five major feasts of the Armenian Church, and the most important of the four feasts of the Holy Cross. According to Armenian tradition, the first one to \"exalt\" the Cross was the Apostle James of Jerusalem, the \"Brother of the Lord\". On the Sunday nearest September 14, the liturgy is marked with an \"antasdan\" service (blessing of the fields) during which the processional cross is adorned with basil (a symbol of royalty) and the four corners of the church are blessed as a sign of the sanctification of the world.\n\nOn the Sunday nearest September 28 (always two weeks after the Exaltation) the Armenian Church celebrates the Feast of the Holy Cross of Varak (\"Varaka Khach\") commemorating the third century placement of an authentic relic of the cross in Armenian soil at Varagavank. This is a cross feast unique to the Armenian Church.\n\nOn the Sunday closest to October 26, the Armenian Church celebrates the Discovery of the Holy Cross (\"Kyood Khach\"), commemorating the finding of the True Cross by Saint Helena (327 AD).\n\nThe Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church (along with Protestant Ethio-Eritreans) and the Coptic Church of Alexandria, commemorate the finding of the true cross on Meskerem 17 of the Ethiopian Calendar (17 Thoout in the Coptic calendar) corresponding to September 27 in the Julian calendar (or, in leap years, one day later). The eve of this day is popularly called \"Demera\" in Amharic - meaning Bonfire. The patriarch of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church lights a large bonfire in Maskal Square, Addis Ababa's greatest open arena, and smaller bonfires are lit by individuals and local parishes throughout the country. Thousands attend the colourful and vibrant ceremony of religious chantings around the bonfire in Maskal Square, which owes its name to the ceremony, \"maskal\" meaning in Ge'ez \"cross\". According to tradition, the bonfire commemorates how Queen Helena, as legend has it, found with the smoke of a bonfire, where to search for the true cross in Jerusalem, or how, by a series of bonfires, she signalled to her son Constantine in Constantinople her success in finding it.\n\nIn the Malankara Syrian Orthodox Church a special offering called \"panchasarayumanda\" is made on this day, in particular at the Akaparambu Mor Sabor-Mor Aphroth Church in the Ernakulam District, Kerala.\n\nIn the Russian Orthodox Church, October 12 is the commemoration of the Translation of a Portion of the Life-Giving Cross from Malta to Gatchina.\nA portion of the Life-Giving Cross of the Lord, as well as the \"Philermos\" icon of the Mother of God and the right hand of John the Baptist were preserved on the island of Malta by the Knights of the Catholic Order of St. John of Jerusalem, who controlled the island.\n\nIn 1798, when the French seized the island, the Maltese Knights turned to the Russian Empire for defense and protection. To this end, they elected Paul I, the Tsar of Russia, as Grand Master of the Order. The Tsar accepted his election. On October 12, 1799, Maltese knights came to their new Priory Palace, just built for them by Paul in Gatchina (45  km. [27 miles] south of St.  Petersburg), and offered these ancient and holy treasures to their new Grand Master, the tsar.\n\nIn the autumn of 1799 the holy items were transferred to St. Petersburg and placed in the Winter Palace within the internal church dedicated to the Icon of the Savior Not-Made-by-Hands. The feast for this event was established in 1800.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox and Byzantine Rite Catholics commemorate the Procession of the Precious Wood of the Life-giving Cross of Jesus Christ on August 1, which is also the first day of the Dormition Fast. The propers of the feast are combined with those of the Holy Maccabean Martyrs, the commemoration of whose endurance is deemed appropriate for the first day of a fast. Unlike the September 14 observance, this commemoration is considered to be a minor feast, but it does have the bringing out of the cross and veneration by the faithful like the September feast.\n\nThe history of this feast begins in Constantinople where it was the custom to carry the relic of the True Cross through the streets and squares of the city to ask for God's blessing and for relief from sickness. On the eve of the feast (July 31), observed as a forefeast, it was taken out of the imperial treasury, and laid upon the altar of the \"Great Church\" (Hagia Sophia) and the following day solemnly placed in the middle of the Great Church for the faithful to venerate. It was taken in procession daily throughout the city, offering it to the people to venerate, until the Feast of the Dormition of the Theotokos (August 15), when it was returned to the imperial treasury.\n\nIn commemoration of this tradition, it is customary to have an outdoor procession with the \"Lesser Blessing of Water\" on August 1. It is the first of three \"Feasts of the Saviour\" in the month of August, the other two being the Transfiguration (August 6) and the Icon of Christ \"Not Made by Hands\" (August 16). Because of the blessing of holy water, this holy day is sometimes called \"Saviour of the Water.\" There may also be celebrated on this day the \"Rite of Blessing New Honey\", for which reason the day is also referred to as \"Saviour of the Honey.\"\n\nAccording to Saint Nikolaj Velimirović, this feast was instituted by mutual agreement of the Greeks and Russians to commemorate the simultaneous victories of the Byzantine Emperor Manuel I Komnenos over the Bulgarians and the Russian Prince Andrei Bogolyubsky over the Saracens in the 12th century.\n\nIn the Russian Orthodox Church, this feast also celebrates the Baptism of Rus, which occurred on August 1, 988.\n\nIn addition to celebrations on fixed days, the Cross may be celebrated during the variable, particularly in Lent and Eastertide.\n\nEastern Christians celebrate an additional Veneration of the Cross on the third Sunday of Great Lent. The services for this day are modeled on the Feast of the Exaltation (September 14), and include bringing the cross to the holy table at little vespers and with solemnity out into the center of church at matins, albeit without the ceremony of the Exaltation of the Cross, for veneration by the faithful. It remains in the centre of the church for nearly a week (the Fourth Week of Great Lent). On the Monday and Wednesday of that week, a veneration of the Cross takes place at the First Hour (repeating a portion of the service from matins of the previous Sunday). On Friday of that week, the veneration takes place after the Ninth Hour, after which the priest and deacons return the cross to the sanctuary.\n\nOrthodox Churches, the Roman Catholic Church, and some Anglican churches have a formal Adoration of the Cross during the services on Good Friday.\n\nIn the Roman Breviary before the 1961 reform, a Commemoration of the Cross is made during Eastertide except when the office or commemoration of a double or octave occurs, replacing the suffrage of the Saints said outside Eastertide.\n\nIn addition to all of the above commemorations, Orthodox also hold Wednesday and Friday throughout the year as a commemoration of the Cross.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, on several of the feast days mentioned above, there is a public veneration of the cross. It may take place at matins, after the cross is brought out, at the end of the celebration of the Divine Liturgy, or at the end of one of the Little Hours, depending upon the particular feast and local custom.\n\nThe faithful come forward and make two prostrations, make the sign of the cross on themselves, and kiss the feet of Christ on the cross, and then make a third prostration. After this, they will often receive a blessing from the priest and bow towards their fellow worshippers on each side of the church (this latter practice is most commonly observed in monasteries).\n\nAt the end of the Divine Liturgy, and at some other services as well, it is customary for the faithful to come forward and venerate the \"Blessing Cross\" (hand-cross) which is held by the bishop or priest, and to kiss his hand. This practice is also called the \"Veneration of the Cross\", though it does not involve making prostrations. The cross which is venerated is small (typically 10-16 inches). This cross is usually metal, often gold or gold-plated, and can be enameled or decorated with jewels. The figure of Jesus on the Cross (the \"soma\") is usually engraved, enameled, or painted on the cross, rather than being a separate three-dimensional figure as is found on a crucifix. This is due to the Orthodox practice of using icons rather than statues in church.\n\nThe readings for this day draw a comparison between the bronze serpent of Numbers 21, which was raised up on a pole so that all who looked upon it would be cured of the deadly poison of venomous snakes, and John 3: 14-15, \"And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the desert, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, so that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8452915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8452915", "title": "Flemish Secession hoax", "text": "Flemish Secession hoax\n\nInterviews with prominent Belgian politicians (some of whom had been informed about the hoax) as well as staged footage of the evacuation of the royal family as well as cheering crowds holding the Flag of Flanders were included so as to add credence to the news report. \n\nThe broadcast of the report led to widespread alarm and consternation in French-speaking Belgium. A hotline set up by the station was swamped by 2,600 calls, whilst RTBF's website crashed. Thirty minutes into the broadcast, on demand of the media minister of the French-speaking community in Belgium, , an on-screen message identified it as a fiction. \n\nThe hoax was the creation of the journalist and had been prepared over a period of 2 years under the codename \"BBB\" for \"Bye-bye Belgium\". Its goal was to show Belgians the intensity of the country's issue, and the real possibility of a split of Belgium. In the years coming to the hoax there was rising Flemish separatism and the Vlaams Belang party received strong support in the regional elections. The hoax almost became reality in 2007 after a major political crisis drove many to believe that the country's division was almost certain.\n\nProminent Belgian politicians, including Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt, Flemish Minister-President Yves Leterme and Walloon Minister-President Elio Di Rupo, condemned the report as \"irresponsible.\" International reaction included an angry statement by Jean-Claude Juncker, Prime Minister of Luxembourg, who said, \"This is not the kind of issue you play around with.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43111476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43111476", "title": "Fényszóró", "text": "Fényszóró\n\nFényszóró ('Spotlight') was a weekly publication on theatre and films, published from Budapest, Hungary between 1945 and 1946. The publication had a socialist orientation. Béla Balázs became the editor of the weekly in the fall of 1945.\n"}
{"id": "30857665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857665", "title": "Fórum Internacional Software Livre", "text": "Fórum Internacional Software Livre\n\nFórum Internacional do Software Livre (FISL) (International Free Software Forum) is an event sponsored by Associação Software Livre.Org (Free Software Association), a Brazilian NGO that, among other goals, seeks the promotion and adoption of free software. It takes place every year in Porto Alegre, the capital of Rio Grande Do Sul, the southernmost state of Brazil.\n\nThe event is meant as a \"get-together\" of students, researchers, social movements for freedom of information, entrepreneurs, Information Technology (IT) enterprises, governments, and other interested people. It is considered one of the world´s largest free software events, harboring technical, political and social debates in an integrated way. It gathers discussions, speeches, personalities and novelties both national and international in the free software world.\n\nOn 30 July 1999, a group of public servants, professors, students and members of the academic community, members of user groups and other interested people, joined efforts to start the \"PSL-RS\" (\"Free Software Project of Rio Grande do Sul\").\n\nThe project's goals were:\n\n\nAfter lots of difficulties and delays, the first FISL happened on 4–5 May 2000 in the Noble Hall of UFRGS (Rio Grande do Sul' Federal University). The event was attended by 2,120 people, which also had the first WSL (Free Software Workshop) with 19 works presented during the event.\n\nAmong others, the first FISL had such notable attendees as Richard Stallman, writer of the \"GNU Manifesto\" and Founder of the Free Software Foundation.\n\nSince then, the event has grown considerably in terms of visibility, influence and number of attendees.\nFISL 17 took place from July, 13 to 16, 2016, in the PUCRS Convention Center, Porto Alegre. There were 3937 attendants. \n\nFISL 16 took place from July, 08 to 11, 2015, in the PUCRS Convention Center, Porto Alegre. There were 5281 attendants. \n\nFISL 15 took place from May, 07 to 10, 2014, in the PUCRS Convention Center, Porto Alegre. There were 6017 attendants. \n\nFISL 14 took place from July, 3 to 6, 2013, in the PUCRS Convention Center, Porto Alegre. There were 7217 attendants. \n\nFISL 13 took place from July, 25 to 28, 2012, in the PUCRS Convention Center, Porto Alegre. There were 7709 attendants. \n\nThe 12th edition of the International Free Software Forum happened from June, 29 to July, 2, in 2011 and the main subject was \"Net Neutrality\", because it is believed that content must be equally accessible to every person with no interferences in online traffic. Following this edition´s subject, a contest for choosing the event´s logomark to be used in fisl´s graphic work was carried out. Raphael Greque´s work was chosen in an election between ASL´s associates. Freedom as a subject also was present between various discussions, in an effort to contribute to technological and socio-cultural evolution of the country. It also aimed at offering to participants the opportunity to get updated in free software usage in many different areas. The event also offered attendance in many speeches and workshops in areas such as mobility, free software in education, robotics, free networks, free culture, digital inclusion and women in IT.\n\nRepresentatives of both RS and national public sector attend fisl every year, and strengthen their commitment to free software. Hence the participation of the then Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, in 2009. In this edition, fisl hosted the presence of the Minister of Science and Technology Aloisio Mercadante, the RS Governor Tarso Genro and the Porto Alegre Mayor José fortunati, the President of the Federal Data Processing Service, Marcos Mazoni, the Manager of Technical Innovations of the Ministry of Planning Corinto Meffe, the Secretary of Logistics and IT of the MInistry of PLanning, Delfino Natal de Souza, the President of the RS Data Processing Company (Procergs), Carlson Aquistapasse, the President of the Data Processing Company of Porto Alegre, (Procempa), André Imar Kulczynski, federal deputies Paulo Pimenta e Manuela D'Avila, besides other authorities.\n\nPublic Hearing – the Minister of Science and Technology, Aloisio Mercadante participated in a public hearing with fisl´ organizers, people from the Hacker Transparency movement, developers from Ubuntu, Debian, Slackware and ODF among other groups, talking about how hackers can help increase government´s transparency and technological development.\n\nfisl12 in numbers\n\nParticipants: 6.914 Brazilian states: 25 +Federal district Countries: 13 Users groups: 40 Convoys: 58 Tracks: 21 Proposals submissions: 581 Speeches: 352 Speakers: 521 Total traffic: 391 GB Wireless: 104 GB Traffic peak: 151 Mbit/s Max simultaneous hosts: 267 Page views: 311.922 Sponsors: 28 Solutions showed: 21 Supporters: 6 Exhibitors: 26 Organization team people: 217 \n\nThis editions happened from 21 to 24 July 2010. It hosted a total of 7.511 participants [2] which circulated between the Free Solutions and Business Fair and fisl itself, attending speeches, workshops and debates. fisl11 developed more than 500 activities, overcoming all previous editions. Innovation began with speech selection, which relied on the participation of registered people in order to choose them. This was also the first edition with translation to libras (Brazilian language of signals, aimed at the hearing-impaired). The activities of the Free Culture Festival received a larger room, in an effort to broaden debates about knowledge sharing also in other areas of activity. Besides the record number of participants, 84 people helped build the largest free software event in Latin America together with organization teams. The presence of the traditional Convoys and Users Groups from various parts of Brazil and abroad confirmed the success, year after year. Up to the last day of the Forum, fisl11´ website had more than 2 million pageviews. Specialists in free software gave lectures in fisl11 such as Linux International Jon \"maddog\" Hall, developer Jon Phillips, Mozilla Foundation executive director Mark Shurman and GIT specialist Scott Chacon. \n\nThis edition happened from 24 to 27, June, 2009, with names such as Jon \"maddog\" Hall, Peter Sunde, creator of the famous torrent sharing site The Pirate Bay. with 8232 registered participants, it was the largest edition ever [3]. The picture of President Lula hugging Peter Sunde shot by Mariel Zasso walked around all blogosphere.[4] \n\nOBS: In this year the event´s name in form of versions was abandoned, and a normal running number scheme was adopted.\n\nThe 2008 edition had more than 7417 registered people coming from 21 countries[5]. It became acknowledged by the presence of companies such as Sun Microsystems, Google and Intel and of personalities such as Linux International´ Jon \"maddog\" Hall and Louis Suarez-Potts from OpenOffice.org. The event was carried on at the PUCRS Convention Center (PUCRS).\n\nThe 2007 edition hosted the presence of companies such as Sun Microsystems, IBM and Intel and people like Jon \"maddog\" Hall from Linux International, X.Org´s Keith Packard, Sun´s Simon Phipps and Louis Suarez-Potts from OpenOffice.org. It harboured 5363 participants[6]. The event happened at FIERGS Convention Center. 19 mobilizing activities to fisl 8.0 were carried on, among free software events, speeches, promotions, courses and institutional visits, between various Brazilian cities.\n\nAmong the outstanding attractions it may be quoted the participation of the educational coordinator from OLPC (One Laptop per Child) at the UFRGS Laboratory of Cognitive Studies Léa Fagundes, who introduced a prototype of the laptop developed for public school children. Paul Singer National Secretary of Solidarity Economy at the Ministry of Work and Employment and Edgar Piccino, from the Institute of IT, cabinet of the President of the Republic made a speech based on parallels between solidarity economy the development model of free software. In the panel \"Digital Communication and the Building of the Commons: viral networks, open spectra and the new ways of regulation\" the sociologist Sérgio Amadeu da Silveira, journalist Gustavo Gindre and Intervozes member João Brant and Jon \"maddog\" Hall debated the deep changes that digital technologies impose to the telecommunications sector.\n\n2006 edition happened from 19 to 22, April, and was marked by the presence of Richard Stallman and discussions around GPLv3. It is important to remark the discussions about digital inclusion, technical speeches about software usage and community meetings about communication and popular participation. More information can be found at the fisl 7.0 website.\n\nA total of 3.385 people (83,82% men and 12,67% women), 445 speakers, 119 journalists and 550 exhibitors. Speakers from 10 countries participated [7].\n\nThe 2005 edition had more than 4.300 registered people, according to the official website. The integration of new modules to the management system takes place. They are called GREVE and PAPERS.\n\nIn this year the event´s organization decides to abandon the roman numbering system and adopt the \"version\" scheme. Aiming at helping indigenous and maroons communities from Rio Grande do Sul, a fee of R$ 3,00 (about U$ 1,62 as of dec-2011) was charged at registration. The funds gathered were used to buy food donated to these communities.\n\nIn the event´s grid technical speeches, panels and cases in the banking, health, education, county management, hardware, networks and security areas were given, showing the strong evolution in applications that happened in the last years and trend analysis for the coming years.\n\nA total of 2.715 people (82.96% men and 13.54% women), 222 speakers, 298 scholars, 81 journalists, 500 exhibitors have been participated and about 4.400 people have been to the fair. 23 countries were represented [8].\n\nV FISL happened from 2 to 5, June, 2004 at PUCRS. The system PAPERS comes up as an update to the old system. In the 2004 edition, the Forum athered representatives from more than 35 countries, all the Brazilian states plus the Federal District. More than 300 speakers, 1.014 companies and institutions and 4.854 people.\n\nThe IV FISL happened at the PUCRS Convention Center from 5 to 7, June, 2003, in Porto Alegre.\n\nWith more than 4.000 people registered and the presence of famous speakers such as Sérgio Amadeu (then ITI President – Presidency of Brazil) and Miguel de Icaza (GNOME Foundation), the event had as a main subject Use of Free Software in the Private and Public Sector. It was the first edition to use an exclusive system for event management (called YES! Eventos).\n\nThe 2002 edition happened from 2 to 4, May, at the PUCRS Convention Center. Main subjects were Use of Free Software in the public sector, testimonies and case studies about free software use in companies, tech tutorials and debates about free software diffusion in universities.\n\nThe second edition of FISL took place from 29 to 31, 2001 at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul. The official opening ceremony was led by the Governor of Rio Grande do Sul and had the attendance of the President of the RS Deputy Assembly, Unesco, Mayors, Universities and NGO´s. The main speech was about Software License and Freedom, from Timothy Ney, Free Software Foundation Executive – USA. Other subjects were private and corporate security, Free Software use in the armed forces and popular computers.\n\nThe first edition of fisl happened from 4 to 5 May 2000, at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS). The main activities were case studies of free software use and free software concepts.\n\nAmong others, founders and important members of great Free Software projects that have spoken at FISL:\n\n\nThe seventh Fórum Internacional Software Livre happened from the 19th to the 22nd of April. More than 5000 attendees registered attending.\n\nThe speakers included:\n\n\nThe 2nd international GPLv3 conference was held in conjunction with FISL on April 21 and 22.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3414021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3414021", "title": "George W. Bush", "text": "George W. Bush\n\nGeorge Walker Bush (born July 6, 1946) is an American politician and businessman who served as the 43rd President of the United States from 2001 to 2009. He had previously served as the 46th Governor of Texas from 1995 to 2000.\n\nBush was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and grew up in Texas. After graduating from Yale University in 1968 and Harvard Business School in 1975, he worked in the oil industry. Bush married Laura Welch in 1977 and unsuccessfully ran for the U.S. House of Representatives shortly thereafter. He later co-owned the Texas Rangers baseball team before defeating Ann Richards in the 1994 Texas gubernatorial election. Bush was elected President of the United States in 2000 when he defeated Democratic incumbent Vice President Al Gore after a close and controversial win that involved a stopped recount in Florida. He became the fourth person to be elected president while receiving fewer popular votes than his opponent. Bush is a member of a prominent political family and is the eldest son of Barbara and George H. W. Bush, the 41st President of the United States. He is only the second president to assume the nation's highest office after his father, following the footsteps of John Adams and his son, John Quincy Adams. His brother, Jeb Bush, a former Governor of Florida, was a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in the 2016 presidential election. His paternal grandfather, Prescott Bush, was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut.\n\nThe September 11 terrorist attacks occurred eight months into Bush's first term. Bush responded with what became known as the Bush Doctrine: launching a \"War on Terror\", an international military campaign that included the war in Afghanistan in 2001 and the Iraq War in 2003. He signed into law broad tax cuts, the Patriot Act, the No Child Left Behind Act, the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, Medicare prescription drug benefits for seniors, and funding for the AIDS relief program known as PEPFAR. His tenure included national debates on immigration, Social Security, electronic surveillance, and torture. In the 2004 presidential race, Bush defeated Democratic Senator John Kerry in another relatively close election. After his re-election, Bush received increasingly heated criticism from across the political spectrum for his handling of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and other challenges. Amid this criticism, the Democratic Party regained control of Congress in the 2006 elections. In December 2007, the United States entered its longest post-World War II recession, often referred to as the \"Great Recession\", prompting the Bush administration to obtain congressional passage of multiple economic programs intended to preserve the country's financial system.\n\nNationally, Bush was both one of the most popular and unpopular U.S. presidents in history, having received the highest recorded presidential approval ratings in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, as well as one of the lowest approval ratings during the 2008 financial crisis. Bush finished his term in office in 2009 and returned to Texas, where he had purchased a home in Dallas. In 2010, he published his memoir, \"Decision Points\". His presidential library was opened in 2013. His presidency has been ranked among the worst in historians' polls that were published in the late 2000s and 2010s—he has consistently fallen in the bottom two sextiles. However, his favorability ratings with the public have increased since leaving office.\n\nGeorge Walker Bush was born on July 6, 1946, at Yale–New Haven Hospital in New Haven, Connecticut, while his father was a student at Yale. He was the first child of George Herbert Walker Bush and his wife, Barbara Pierce. He was raised in Midland and Houston, Texas, with four siblings, Jeb, Neil, Marvin and Dorothy. Another younger sister, Robin, died from leukemia at the age of three in 1953. His grandfather, Prescott Bush, was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut. His father was Ronald Reagan's vice president from 1981 to 1989 and the 41st U.S. president from 1989 to 1993. Bush has English and some German ancestry, along with more distant Dutch, Welsh, Irish, French, and Scottish roots.\n\nBush attended public schools in Midland, Texas, until the family moved to Houston after he had completed seventh grade. He then spent two years at The Kinkaid School, a prep school in Piney Point Village in the Houston area.\n\nBush attended high school at Phillips Academy, a boarding school in Andover, Massachusetts, where he played baseball and was the head cheerleader during his senior year. He attended Yale University (coincidentally located at his place of birth in New Haven, Connecticut) from 1964 to 1968, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history. During this time, he was a cheerleader and a member of the Delta Kappa Epsilon, serving as the president of the fraternity during his senior year. Bush became a member of the Skull and Bones society as a senior. Bush was a rugby union player and was on Yale's 1st XV. He characterized himself as an average student. His GPA during his first three years at Yale was 77, and he had a similar average under a nonnumeric rating system in his final year.\n\nIn the fall of 1973, Bush entered Harvard Business School. He graduated in 1975 with an MBA degree. At the time of his election, he was the only U.S. president to have earned an MBA.\n\nBush was initially engaged to Cathryn Lee Wolfman in 1967, but the engagement eventually fizzled out. Bush and Wolfman remained on good terms after the end of the relationship. While Bush was at a backyard barbecue in 1977, friends introduced him to Laura Welch, a schoolteacher and librarian. After a three-month courtship, she accepted his marriage proposal and they wed on November 5 of that year. The couple settled in Midland, Texas. Bush left his family's Episcopal Church to join his wife's United Methodist Church. On November 25, 1981, Laura Bush gave birth to fraternal twin daughters, Barbara and Jenna. Through his maternal side, he is a sixth-cousin four times removed of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill.\n\nPrior to getting married, Bush struggled with multiple episodes of alcohol abuse. In one instance on September 4, 1976, he was pulled over near his family's summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine for driving under the influence of alcohol. He was cited for DUI, fined $150 (), and got his Maine driver's license briefly suspended.\nBush said his wife has had a stabilizing effect on his life, and he attributes her influence to his 1986 decision to give up alcohol. While Governor of Texas, Bush said of his wife, \"I saw an elegant, beautiful woman who turned out not only to be elegant and beautiful, but very smart and willing to put up with my rough edges, and I must confess has smoothed them off over time.\"\n\nBush has been an avid reader throughout his adult life, preferring biographies and histories. During his time as president, Bush read the Bible daily. He also read 14 Lincoln biographies, and during the last three years of his presidency, he reportedly read 186 books. Walt Harrington, a journalist, recalled seeing \"books by John Fowles, F. Scott Fitzgerald, James Joyce, and Gore Vidal lying about, as well as biographies of Willa Cather and Queen Victoria\" in his home when Bush was a Texas oilman. Other activities include cigar smoking and golf. Since leaving the White House, Bush has also taken up oil painting.\n\nIn May 1968, Bush was commissioned into the Texas Air National Guard. After two years of training in active-duty service, he was assigned to Houston, flying Convair F-102s with the 147th Reconnaissance Wing out of the Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base. Critics, including former Democratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe, have alleged that Bush was favorably treated due to his father's political standing as a member of the House of Representatives, citing his selection as a pilot despite his low pilot aptitude test scores and his irregular attendance. In June 2005, the United States Department of Defense released all the records of Bush's Texas Air National Guard service, which remain in its official archives.\n\nIn late 1972 and early 1973, he drilled with the 187th Fighter Wing of the Alabama Air National Guard. He had moved to Montgomery, Alabama, to work on the unsuccessful U.S. Senate campaign of Republican Winton M. Blount. In 1972, Bush was suspended from flying for failure to take a scheduled physical exam. He was honorably discharged from the Air Force Reserve on November 21, 1974.\n\nIn 1977, Bush established Arbusto Energy, a small oil exploration company, although it did not begin operations until the following year. He later changed the name to Bush Exploration. In 1984, his company merged with the larger Spectrum 7, and Bush became chairman. The company was hurt by decreased oil prices, and it folded into HKN, Inc., with Bush becoming a member of HKN's board of directors. Questions of possible insider trading involving HKN arose, but a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigation concluded that the information Bush had at the time of his stock sale was not sufficient to constitute insider trading.\n\nIn April 1989, Bush arranged for a group of investors to purchase a controlling interest in the Texas Rangers baseball franchise for $89 million and invested $500,000 himself to start. He then served as managing general partner for five years. He actively led the team's projects and regularly attended its games, often choosing to sit in the open stands with fans. Bush's sale of his shares in the Rangers in 1998 brought him over $15 million from his initial $800,000 investment.\n\nIn 1978, Bush ran for the House of Representatives from Texas's 19th congressional district. The retiring member, George H. Mahon, had held the district for the Democratic Party since 1935. Bush's opponent, Kent Hance, portrayed him as out of touch with rural Texans, and Bush lost the election with 46.8 percent of the vote to Hance's 53.2 percent.\n\nBush and his family moved to Washington, D.C., in 1988 to work on his father's campaign for the U.S. presidency. He served as a campaign advisor and liaison to the media, and assisted his father by campaigning across the country. In December 1991, Bush was one of seven people named by his father to run his father's 1992 presidential re-election campaign, as a \"campaign advisor\". The previous month, his father had asked him to tell White House chief of staff John H. Sununu that he should resign.\n\nBush declared his candidacy for the 1994 Texas gubernatorial election at the same time that his brother Jeb sought the governorship of Florida. His campaign focused on four themes: welfare reform, tort reform, crime reduction, and education improvement. Bush's campaign advisers were Karen Hughes, Joe Allbaugh, and Karl Rove.\n\nAfter easily winning the Republican primary, Bush faced popular Democratic incumbent Governor Ann Richards. In the course of the campaign, Bush pledged to sign a bill allowing Texans to obtain permits to carry concealed weapons. Richards had vetoed the bill, but Bush signed it into law after he became governor. According to \"The Atlantic Monthly\", the race \"featured a rumor that she was a lesbian, along with a rare instance of such a tactic's making it into the public record – when a regional chairman of the Bush campaign allowed himself, perhaps inadvertently, to be quoted criticizing Richards for 'appointing avowed homosexual activists' to state jobs\". \"The Atlantic\", and others, connected the lesbian rumor to Karl Rove, but Rove denied being involved. Bush won the general election with 53.5 percent against Richards' 45.9 percent.\n\nBush used a budget surplus to push through Texas's largest tax-cut, $2 billion. He extended government funding for organizations providing education of the dangers of alcohol and drug use and abuse, and helping to reduce domestic violence. Critics contended that during his tenure, Texas ranked near the bottom in environmental evaluations. Supporters pointed to his efforts to raise the salaries of teachers and improve educational test scores.\n\nIn 1999, Bush signed a law that required electric retailers to buy a certain amount of energy from renewable sources (RPS), which helped Texas eventually become the leading producer of wind powered electricity in the U.S.\n\nIn 1998, Bush won re-election with a record 69 percent of the vote. He became the first governor in Texas history to be elected to two consecutive four-year terms. For most of Texas history, governors served two-year terms; a constitutional amendment extended those terms to four years starting in 1975. In his second term, Bush promoted faith-based organizations and enjoyed high approval ratings. He proclaimed June 10, 2000, to be Jesus Day in Texas, a day on which he \"urge[d] all Texans to answer the call to serve those in need\".\n\nThroughout Bush's first term, he was the focus of national attention as a potential future presidential candidate. Following his re-election, speculation soared, and within a year he decided to seek the 2000 Republican presidential nomination.\n\nIncumbent Democratic president Bill Clinton was completing his second and final term, and the field for nomination for President of both parties was wide open. Bush was the Governor of Texas in June 1999 when he announced his candidacy for President of the United States. He entered a large field of hopefuls for the Republican Party presidential nomination that included John McCain, Alan Keyes, Steve Forbes, Gary Bauer, Orrin Hatch, Elizabeth Dole, Dan Quayle, Pat Buchanan, Lamar Alexander, John Kasich, and Bob Smith.\n\nBush portrayed himself as a compassionate conservative, implying he was more centrist than other Republicans. He campaigned on a platform that included bringing integrity and honor back to the White House, increasing the size of the United States Armed Forces, cutting taxes, improving education, and aiding minorities. By early 2000, the race had centered on Bush and McCain.\n\nBush won the Iowa caucuses, and although he was heavily favored to win the New Hampshire primary, he trailed McCain by 19 percent and lost that primary. Despite this, Bush regained momentum, and according to political observers, he effectively became the front runner after the South Carolina primary—which according to \"The Boston Globe\"—made history for his campaign's negativity. \"The New York Times\" described it as a smear campaign.\n\nOn July 25, 2000, Bush surprised some observers when he selected Dick Cheney—a former White House Chief of Staff, U.S. Representative, and Secretary of Defense—to be his running mate. At the time, Cheney was serving as head of Bush's vice presidential search committee. Soon after at the 2000 Republican National Convention, Bush and Cheney were officially nominated by the Republican Party.\n\nBush continued to campaign across the country and touted his record as Governor of Texas. During his campaign, Bush criticized his Democratic opponent, incumbent Vice President Al Gore, over gun control and taxation.\n\nWhen the election returns were tallied on November 7, Bush had won 29 states, including Florida. The closeness of the Florida outcome led to a recount. The initial recount also went to Bush, but the outcome was tied up in lower courts for a month until eventually reaching the U.S. Supreme Court. On December 9, in the controversial \"Bush v. Gore\" ruling, the Court reversed a Florida Supreme Court decision that had ordered a third count, and stopped an ordered statewide hand recount based on the argument that the use of different standards among Florida's counties violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The machine recount showed that Bush had won the Florida vote by a margin of 537 votes out of six million cast. Although he had received 543,895 fewer individual nationwide votes than Gore, Bush won the election, receiving 271 electoral votes to Gore's 266 (Gore's statewide victories had electoral votes tallying 267; however, one of Gore's pledged electors abstained, rendering the official tally at 266). Bush was the first person to win an American presidential election with fewer popular votes than another candidate since Benjamin Harrison in 1888.\n\nIn his 2004 bid for re-election, Bush commanded broad support in the Republican Party and did not encounter a primary challenge. He appointed Ken Mehlman as campaign manager, and Karl Rove devised a political strategy. Bush and the Republican platform emphasized a strong commitment to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, support for the USA PATRIOT Act, a renewed shift in policy for constitutional amendments banning abortion and same-sex marriage, reforming Social Security to create private investment accounts, creation of an ownership society, and opposing mandatory carbon emissions controls. Bush also called for the implementation of a guest worker program for immigrants, which was criticized by conservatives.\n\nThe Bush campaign advertised across the U.S. against Democratic candidates, including Bush's emerging opponent, Massachusetts Senator John Kerry. Kerry and other Democrats attacked Bush on the Iraq War, and accused him of failing to stimulate the economy and job growth. The Bush campaign portrayed Kerry as a staunch liberal who would raise taxes and increase the size of government. The Bush campaign continuously criticized Kerry's seemingly contradictory statements on the war in Iraq, and argued that Kerry lacked the decisiveness and vision necessary for success in the War on Terror.\n\nIn the election, Bush carried 31 of 50 states, receiving a total of 286 electoral votes. He won an absolute majority of the popular vote (50.7 percent to his opponent's 48.3 percent). Bush's father George H.W. Bush was the previous president who won an absolute majority of the popular vote; he accomplished that feat in the 1988 election. Additionally, it was the first time since Herbert Hoover's election in 1928 that a Republican president was elected alongside re-elected Republican majorities in both Houses of Congress.\n\nBush had originally outlined an ambitious domestic agenda, but his priorities were significantly altered following the September 11 attacks. Wars were waged in Afghanistan and Iraq, and there were significant domestic debates regarding immigration, healthcare, Social Security, economic policy, and treatment of terrorist detainees. Over an eight-year period, Bush's once-high approval ratings steadily declined, while his disapproval numbers increased significantly. In 2007, the United States entered the longest post-World War II recession.\n\nBush took office during a period of economic recession in the wake of the bursting of the dot-com bubble. The terrorist attacks also impacted the economy. His administration increased federal government spending from $1.789 trillion to $2.983 trillion (60 percent) while revenues increased from $2.025 trillion to $2.524 trillion (from 2000 to 2008). Individual income tax revenues increased by 14 percent, corporate tax revenues by 50 percent, customs and duties by 40 percent. Discretionary defense spending was increased by 107 percent, discretionary domestic spending by 62 percent, Medicare spending by 131 percent, social security by 51 percent, and income security spending by 130 percent. Cyclically adjusted, revenues rose by 35 percent and spending by 65 percent.\nThe increase in spending was more than under any predecessor since Lyndon B. Johnson. The number of economic regulation governmental workers increased by 91,196.\n\nThe surplus in fiscal year 2000 was $237 billion—the third consecutive surplus and the largest surplus ever. In 2001, Bush's budget estimated that there would be a $5.6 trillion surplus over the next ten years. Facing congressional opposition, Bush held townhall style meetings across the U.S. in order to increase public support for his plan for a $1.35 trillion tax cut program—one of the largest tax cuts in U.S. history. Bush argued that unspent government funds should be returned to taxpayers, saying \"the surplus is not the government's money. The surplus is the people's money.\" Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan warned of a recession and Bush stated that a tax cut would stimulate the economy and create jobs. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, opposed some of the tax cuts on the basis that they would contribute to budget deficits and undermine Social Security. O'Neill disputes the claim, made in Bush's book \"Decision Points\", that he never openly disagreed with him on planned tax cuts. By 2003, the economy showed signs of improvement, though job growth remained stagnant. Another tax cut program was passed that year.\n\nDuring the 2001 to 2008 years, GDP grew at an average annual rate of 2.125 percent, less than for past business cycles.\n\nBush entered office with the Dow Jones Industrial Average at 10,587, and the average peaked in October 2007 at over 14,000. When Bush left office, the average was at 7,949, one of the lowest levels of his presidency. Only four other US presidents have left office with the stock market lower than when they began.\n\nUnemployment originally rose from 4.2 percent in January 2001 to 6.3 percent in June 2003, but subsequently dropped to 4.5 percent . Adjusted for inflation, median household income dropped by $1,175 between 2000 and 2007, while Professor Ken Homa of Georgetown University has noted that \"Median real after-tax household income went up 2 percent\". The poverty rate increased from 11.3 percent in 2000 to 12.3 percent in 2006 after peaking at 12.7 percent in 2004. By October 2008, due to increases in spending, the national debt had risen to $11.3 trillion, an increase of over 100 percent from 2000 when the debt was only $5.6 trillion. Most debt was accumulated as a result of what became known as the \"Bush tax cuts\" and increased national security spending. In March 2006, then-Senator Barack Obama said when he voted against raising the debt ceiling: \"The fact that we are here today to debate raising America's debt limit is a sign of leadership failure.\" By the end of Bush's presidency, unemployment climbed to 7.2 percent.\n\nIn December 2007, the United States entered the longest post–World War II recession, which included a housing market correction, a subprime mortgage crisis, soaring oil prices, and a declining dollar value. In February, 63,000 jobs were lost, a five-year record. To aid with the situation, Bush signed a $170 billion economic stimulus package which was intended to improve the economic situation by sending tax rebate checks to many Americans and providing tax breaks for struggling businesses. The Bush administration pushed for significantly increased regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2003, and after two years, the regulations passed the House but died in the Senate. Many Republican senators, as well as influential members of the Bush Administration, feared that the agency created by these regulations would merely be mimicking the private sector's risky practices. In September 2008, the crisis became much more serious beginning with the government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac followed by the collapse of Lehman Brothers and a federal bailout of American International Group for $85 billion.\n\nMany economists and world governments determined that the situation had become the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Additional regulation over the housing market would have been beneficial, according to former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan. Bush, meanwhile, proposed a financial rescue plan to buy back a large portion of the U.S. mortgage market. Vince Reinhardt, a former Federal Reserve economist now at the American Enterprise Institute, said \"it would have helped for the Bush administration to empower the folks at Treasury and the Federal Reserve and the comptroller of the currency and the FDIC to look at these issues more closely\", and additionally, that it would have helped \"for Congress to have held hearings\".\n\nIn November 2008, over 500,000 jobs were lost, which marked the largest loss of jobs in the United States in 34 years. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that in the last four months of 2008, 1.9 million jobs were lost. By the end of 2008, the U.S. had lost a total of 2.6 million jobs.\n\nBush undertook a number of educational agendas, such as increasing the funding for the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health in his first years of office, and creating education programs to strengthen the grounding in science and mathematics for American high school students. Funding for the NIH was cut in 2006, the first such cut in 36 years, due to rising inflation.\nOne of the administration's early major initiatives was the No Child Left Behind Act, which aimed to measure and close the gap between rich and poor student performance, provide options to parents with students in low-performing schools, and target more federal funding to low-income schools. This landmark education initiative passed with broad bipartisan support, including that of Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts. It was signed into law by Bush in early 2002. Many contend that the initiative has been successful, as cited by the fact that students in the U.S. have performed significantly better on state reading and math tests since Bush signed \"No Child Left Behind\" into law. Critics argue that it is underfunded and that NCLBA's focus on \"high-stakes testing\" and quantitative outcomes is counterproductive.\n\nAfter being re-elected, Bush signed into law a Medicare drug benefit program that, according to Jan Crawford, resulted in \"the greatest expansion in America's welfare state in forty years;\" the bill's costs approached $7 trillion. In 2007, Bush opposed and vetoed State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) legislation, which was added by the Democrats onto a war funding bill and passed by Congress. The SCHIP legislation would have significantly expanded federally funded health care benefits and plans to children of some low-income families from about six million to ten million children. It was to be funded by an increase in the cigarette tax. Bush viewed the legislation as a move toward socialized health care, and asserted that the program could benefit families making as much as $83,000 per year who did not need the help.\n\nFollowing Republican efforts to pass the Medicare Act of 2003, Bush signed the bill, which included major changes to the Medicare program by providing beneficiaries with some assistance in paying for prescription drugs, while relying on private insurance for the delivery of benefits. The retired persons lobby group AARP worked with the Bush Administration on the program and gave their endorsement. Bush said the law, estimated to cost $400 billion over the first ten years, would give the elderly \"better choices and more control over their health care\".\nBush began his second term by outlining a major initiative to \"reform\" Social Security, which was facing record deficit projections beginning in 2005. Bush made it the centerpiece of his domestic agenda despite opposition from some in the U.S. Congress. In his 2005 State of the Union Address, Bush discussed the potential impending bankruptcy of the program and outlined his new program, which included partial privatization of the system, personal Social Security accounts, and options to permit Americans to divert a portion of their Social Security tax (FICA) into secured investments. Democrats opposed the proposal to partially privatize the system.\n\nBush embarked on a 60-day national tour, campaigning for his initiative in media events known as \"Conversations on Social Security\", in an attempt to gain public support. Nevertheless, public support for the proposal declined and the House Republican leadership decided not to put Social Security reform on the priority list for the remainder of their 2005 legislative agenda. The proposal's legislative prospects were further diminished by the fall of 2005 political fallout from Hurricane Katrina. After the Democrats gained control of both houses of Congress as a result of the 2006 midterm elections, there was no prospect of further congressional action on the Bush proposal for the remainder of his term in office.\n\nUpon taking office in 2001, Bush stated his opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, an amendment to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change which seeks to impose mandatory targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, citing that the treaty exempted 80 percent of the world's population and would have cost tens of billions of dollars per year. He also cited that the Senate had voted 95–0 in 1997 on a resolution expressing its disapproval of the protocol.\n\nIn May 2001, Bush signed an executive order to create an interagency task force to streamline energy projects, and later signed two other executive orders to tackle environmental issues.\n\nIn 2002, Bush announced the Clear Skies Act of 2003, which aimed at amending the Clean Air Act to reduce air pollution through the use of emissions trading programs. Many experts argued that this legislation would have weakened the original legislation by allowing higher emission rates of pollutants than were previously legal. The initiative was introduced to Congress, but failed to make it out of committee.\n\nLater in 2006, Bush declared the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands a national monument, creating the largest marine reserve to date. The Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument comprises 84 million acres (340,000 km) and is home to 7,000 species of fish, birds, and other marine animals, many of which are specific to only those islands. The move was hailed by conservationists for \"its foresight and leadership in protecting this incredible area\".\n\nBush has said that he believes that global warming is real and has noted that it is a serious problem, but he asserted there is a \"debate over whether it's man-made or naturally caused\". The Bush Administration's stance on global warming remained controversial in the scientific and environmental communities. Critics have alleged that the administration misinformed the public and did not do enough to reduce carbon emissions and deter global warming.\n\nIn his 2006 State of the Union Address, Bush declared, \"America is addicted to oil\" and announced his Advanced Energy Initiative to increase energy development research.\nIn his 2007 State of the Union Address, Bush renewed his pledge to work toward diminished reliance on foreign oil by reducing fossil fuel consumption and increasing alternative fuel production. Amid high gasoline prices in 2008, Bush lifted a ban on offshore drilling. However, the move was largely symbolic because there was still a federal law banning offshore drilling. Bush said, \"This means that the only thing standing between the American people and these vast oil reserves is action from the U.S. Congress.\" Bush had said in June 2008, \"In the long run, the solution is to reduce demand for oil by promoting alternative energy technologies. My administration has worked with Congress to invest in gas-saving technologies like advanced batteries and hydrogen fuel cells... In the short run, the American economy will continue to rely largely on oil. And that means we need to increase supply, especially here at home. So my administration has repeatedly called on Congress to expand domestic oil production.\"\n\nIn his 2008 State of the Union Address, Bush announced that the U.S. would commit $2 billion over the next three years to a new international fund to promote clean energy technologies and fight climate change, saying, \"Along with contributions from other countries, this fund will increase and accelerate the deployment of all forms of cleaner, more efficient technologies in developing nations like India and China, and help leverage substantial private-sector capital by making clean energy projects more financially attractive.\" He also announced plans to reaffirm the United States' commitment to work with major economies, and, through the UN, to complete an international agreement that will slow, stop, and eventually reverse the growth of greenhouse gases; he stated, \"This agreement will be effective only if it includes commitments by every major economy and gives none a free ride.\"\n\nFederal funding for medical research involving the creation or destruction of human embryos through the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health has been forbidden by law since the passage in 1995 of the Dickey-Wicker Amendment by Congress and the signature of President Bill Clinton. Bush has said that he supports adult stem cell research and has supported federal legislation that finances adult stem cell research. However, Bush did not support embryonic stem cell research. On August 9, 2001, Bush signed an executive order lifting the ban on federal funding for the 71 existing \"lines\" of stem cells, but the ability of these existing lines to provide an adequate medium for testing has been questioned. Testing can be done on only 12 of the original lines, and all approved lines have been cultured in contact with mouse cells, which creates safety issues that complicate development and approval of therapies from these lines. On July 19, 2006, Bush used his veto power for the first time in his presidency to veto the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. The bill would have repealed the Dickey-Wicker Amendment, thereby permitting federal money to be used for research where stem cells are derived from the destruction of an embryo.\n\nOn May 21, 2008, Bush signed into law the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA). The bill aimed to protect Americans against health insurance and employment discrimination based on a person's genetic information. The issue had been debated for 13 years before it finally became law. The measure is designed to protect citizens without hindering genetic research.\n\nNearly 8 million immigrants came to the United States from 2000 to 2005, more than in any other five-year period in the nation's history. Almost half entered illegally. In 2006, Bush urged Congress to allow more than 12 million illegal immigrants to work in the United States with the creation of a \"temporary guest-worker program\". Bush also urged Congress to provide additional funds for border security and committed to deploying 6,000 National Guard troops to the Mexico–United States border. From May to June 2007, Bush strongly supported the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007, which was written by a bipartisan group of Senators with the active participation of the Bush administration. The bill envisioned a legalization program for illegal immigrants, with an eventual path to citizenship; establishing a guest worker program; a series of border and work site enforcement measures; a reform of the green card application process and the introduction of a point-based \"merit\" system for green cards; elimination of \"chain migration\" and of the Diversity Immigrant Visa; and other measures. Bush argued that the lack of legal status denies the protections of U.S. laws to millions of people who face dangers of poverty and exploitation, and penalizes employers despite a demand for immigrant labor. Bush contended that the proposed bill did not amount to amnesty.\n\nA heated public debate followed, which resulted in a substantial rift within the Republican Party, most conservatives opposed it because of its legalization or amnesty provisions. The bill was eventually defeated in the Senate on June 28, 2007, when a cloture motion failed on a 46–53 vote. Bush expressed disappointment upon the defeat of one of his signature domestic initiatives. The Bush administration later proposed a series of immigration enforcement measures that do not require a change in law.\n\nOn September 19, 2010, former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that Bush offered to accept 100,000 Palestinian refugees as American citizens if a permanent settlement had been reached between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.\n\nHurricane Katrina struck early in Bush's second term and was one of the most damaging natural disasters in U.S. history. Katrina formed in late August during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season and devastated much of the north-central Gulf Coast of the United States, particularly New Orleans.\n\nBush declared a state of emergency in Louisiana on August 27 and in Mississippi and Alabama the following day. He authorized the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to manage the disaster, but his announcement failed to spur these agencies to action. The eye of the hurricane made landfall on August 29, and New Orleans began to flood due to levee breaches; later that day, Bush declared that a major disaster existed in Louisiana, officially authorizing FEMA to start using federal funds to assist in the recovery effort.\nOn August 30, DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff declared it \"an incident of national significance\", triggering the first use of the newly created National Response Plan. Three days later, on September 2, National Guard troops first entered the city of New Orleans. The same day, Bush toured parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama and declared that the success of the recovery effort up to that point was \"not enough\".\n\nAs the disaster in New Orleans intensified, critics charged that Bush was misrepresenting his administration's role in what they saw as a flawed response. Leaders attacked Bush for having appointed apparently incompetent leaders to positions of power at FEMA, notably Michael D. Brown; it was also argued that the federal response was limited as a result of the Iraq War and Bush himself did not act upon warnings of floods. Bush responded to mounting criticism by accepting full responsibility for the federal government's failures in its handling of the emergency. It has been argued that with Katrina, Bush passed a political tipping point from which he would not recover.\n\nDuring Bush's second term, a controversy arose over the Justice Department's midterm dismissal of seven United States Attorneys. The White House maintained that the U.S. attorneys were fired for poor performance. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales later resigned over the issue, along with other senior members of the Justice Department. The House Judiciary Committee issued subpoenas for advisers Harriet Miers and Josh Bolten to testify regarding this matter, but Bush directed Miers and Bolten to not comply with those subpoenas, invoking his right of executive privilege. Bush maintained that all of his advisers were protected under a broad executive privilege protection to receive candid advice. The Justice Department determined that the President's order was legal.\n\nAlthough Congressional investigations focused on whether the Justice Department and the White House were using the U.S. Attorney positions for political advantage, no official findings have been released. On March 10, 2008, the Congress filed a federal lawsuit to enforce their issued subpoenas. On July 31, 2008, a United States district court judge ruled that Bush's top advisers were not immune from Congressional subpoenas.\n\nIn all, twelve Justice Department officials resigned rather than testify under oath before Congress. They included Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and his chief of staff Kyle Sampson, Gonzales' liaison to the White House Monica Goodling, aide to the president Karl Rove and his senior aide Sara Taylor. In addition, legal counsel to the president Harriet Miers and deputy chief of staff to the president Joshua Bolten were both found in contempt of Congress.\n\nIn 2010, the Justice Department investigator concluded that though political considerations did play a part in as many as four of the attorney firings, the firings were \"inappropriately political\", but not criminal. According to the prosecutors, there was insufficient evidence to pursue prosecution for any criminal offense.\n\nFollowing the resignation of CIA director George Tenet in 2004, Bush nominated Porter Goss to head the agency. The White House ordered Goss to purge agency officers who were disloyal to the administration. After Goss' appointment, many of the CIA's senior agents were fired or quit. The CIA has been accused of deliberately leaking classified information to undermine the 2004 election.\n\nIn July 2001, Bush visited Pope John Paul II at Castel Gandolfo.\nDuring his presidential campaign, Bush's foreign policy platform included support for stronger economic and political relationship with Latin America, especially Mexico, and a reduction of involvement in \"nation-building\" and other small-scale military engagements. The administration pursued a national missile defense. Bush was an advocate of China's entry into the World Trade Organization.\n\nIn his 2002 State of the Union Address, Bush referred to an axis of evil including Iraq, Iran and North Korea. After the September 11 attacks on New York, Bush launched the War on Terror, in which the United States military and a small international coalition invaded Afghanistan. In 2003, Bush then launched the invasion of Iraq, searching for Weapons of Mass Destruction, which he described as being part of the War on Terrorism. Those invasions led to the toppling of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and the removal of Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq.\nBush began his second term with an emphasis on improving strained relations with European nations. He appointed long-time adviser Karen Hughes to oversee a global public relations campaign. Bush lauded the pro-democracy struggles in Georgia and Ukraine.\n\nIn March 2006, Bush reversed decades of U.S. policy when he visited India; the trip led to renewed ties between the two countries. The visit focused particularly on areas of nuclear energy, counter-terrorism cooperation, and discussions that would eventually lead to the India–United States Civil Nuclear Agreement.\n\nBush's visit was in stark contrast to the stance taken by his predecessor, Bill Clinton, whose approach and response to India after the 1998 nuclear tests was that of sanctions and hectoring. The relationship between India and the United States was one that dramatically improved during Bush's tenure.\n\nMidway through Bush's second term, questions arose whether Bush was retreating from his freedom and democracy agenda, which was highlighted in policy changes toward some oil-rich former Soviet republics in central Asia.\n\nIn an address before both Houses of Congress on September 20, 2001, Bush thanked the nations of the world for their support following the September 11 attacks. He specifically thanked UK Prime Minister Tony Blair for traveling to Washington to show \"unity of purpose with America\", and said \"America has no truer friend than Great Britain.\"\n\nThe September 11 terrorist attacks were a major turning point in Bush's presidency. That evening, he addressed the nation from the Oval Office, promising a strong response to the attacks. He also emphasized the need for the nation to come together and comfort the families of the victims. Three days after the attacks, Bush visited Ground Zero and met with Mayor Rudy Giuliani, firefighters, police officers, and volunteers. To much applause, Bush addressed the gathering via a megaphone while standing in a heap of rubble: \"I can hear you. The rest of the world hears you. And the people who knocked these buildings down will hear all of us soon.\"\nIn a September 20 speech, Bush condemned Osama bin Laden and his organization Al-Qaeda, and issued an ultimatum to the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, where bin Laden was operating, to \"hand over the terrorists, or ... share in their fate\".\n\nAfter September 11, Bush announced a global War on Terror. The Afghan Taliban regime was not forthcoming with Osama bin Laden, so Bush ordered the invasion of Afghanistan to overthrow the Taliban regime. In his January 29, 2002 State of the Union Address, he asserted that an \"axis of evil\" consisting of North Korea, Iran, and Iraq was \"arming to threaten the peace of the world\" and \"pose[d] a grave and growing danger\". The Bush Administration asserted both a right and the intention to wage preemptive war, or preventive war. This became the basis for the Bush Doctrine which weakened the unprecedented levels of international and domestic support for the United States which had followed the September 11 attacks.\n\nDissent and criticism of Bush's leadership in the War on Terror increased as the war in Iraq continued. In 2006, a National Intelligence Estimate concluded that the Iraq War had become the \"cause célèbre for jihadists\".\n\nOn October 7, 2001, U.S. and British forces initiated bombing campaigns that led to the arrival of Northern Alliance troops in Kabul on November 13. The main goals of the war were to defeat the Taliban, drive al-Qaeda out of Afghanistan, and capture key al-Qaeda leaders. In December 2001, the Pentagon reported that the Taliban had been defeated, but cautioned that the war would go on to continue weakening Taliban and al-Qaeda leaders. Later that month the UN had installed the Afghan Transitional Administration chaired by Hamid Karzai. In 2002, based on UNICEF figures, Nicholas Kristof reported that \"our invasion of Afghanistan may end up saving one million lives over the next decade\" as the result of improved healthcare and greater access to humanitarian aid.\n\nEfforts to kill or capture al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden failed as he escaped a battle in December 2001 in the mountainous region of Tora Bora, which the Bush Administration later acknowledged to have resulted from a failure to commit enough U.S. ground troops. It was not until May 2011, two years after Bush left office, that bin Laden was killed by U.S. forces under the Obama administration. Bin Laden's successor, Ayman al-Zawahiri, remains at large.\n\nDespite the initial success in driving the Taliban from power in Kabul, by early 2003 the Taliban was regrouping, amassing new funds and recruits. The 2005 failure of Operation Red Wings showed that the Taliban had returned. In 2006, the Taliban insurgency appeared larger, fiercer and better organized than expected, with large-scale allied offensives such as Operation Mountain Thrust attaining limited success. As a result, Bush commissioned 3,500 additional troops to the country in March 2007.\n\nBeginning with his January 29, 2002 State of the Union address, Bush began publicly focusing attention on Iraq, which he labeled as part of an \"axis of evil\" allied with terrorists and posing \"a grave and growing danger\" to U.S. interests through possession of weapons of mass destruction.\n\nIn the latter half of 2002, CIA reports contained assertions of Saddam Hussein's intent of reconstituting nuclear weapons programs, not properly accounting for Iraqi biological and chemical weapons, and that some Iraqi missiles had a range greater than allowed by the UN sanctions. Contentions that the Bush Administration manipulated or exaggerated the threat and evidence of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction capabilities would eventually become a major point of criticism for the president.\n\nIn late 2002 and early 2003, Bush urged the United Nations to enforce Iraqi disarmament mandates, precipitating a diplomatic crisis. In November 2002, Hans Blix and Mohamed ElBaradei led UN weapons inspectors in Iraq, but were advised by the U.S. to depart the country four days prior to the U.S. invasion, despite their requests for more time to complete their tasks. The U.S. initially sought a UN Security Council resolution authorizing the use of military force but dropped the bid for UN approval due to vigorous opposition from several countries.\nMore than 20 nations (most notably the United Kingdom), designated the \"coalition of the willing\" joined the United States in invading Iraq. They launched the invasion on March 20, 2003. The Iraqi military was quickly defeated. The capital, Baghdad, fell on April 9, 2003. On May 1, Bush declared the end of major combat operations in Iraq. The initial success of U.S. operations increased his popularity, but the U.S. and allied forces faced a growing insurgency led by sectarian groups; Bush's \"Mission Accomplished\" speech was later criticized as premature. From 2004 until 2007, the situation in Iraq deteriorated further, with some observers arguing that there was a full-scale civil war in Iraq. Bush's policies met with criticism, including demands domestically to set a timetable to withdraw troops from Iraq. The 2006 report of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, led by James Baker, concluded that the situation in Iraq was \"grave and deteriorating\". While Bush admitted that there were strategic mistakes made in regards to the stability of Iraq, he maintained he would not change the overall Iraq strategy. According to Iraq Body Count, some 251,000 Iraqis have been killed in the civil war following the U.S.-led invasion, including at least 163,841 civilians.\nIn January 2005, free, democratic elections were held in Iraq for the first time in 50 years. According to Iraqi National Security Advisor Mowaffak al-Rubaie, \"This is the greatest day in the history of this country.\" Bush praised the event as well, saying that the Iraqis \"have taken rightful control of their country's destiny\". This led to the election of Jalal Talabani as president and Nouri al-Maliki as Prime Minister of Iraq. A referendum to approve a constitution in Iraq was held in October 2005, supported by most Shiites and many Kurds.\n\nOn January 10, 2007, Bush announced a surge of 21,500 more troops for Iraq, as well as a job program for Iraqis, more reconstruction proposals, and $1.2 billion (equivalent to $ billion in ) for these programs. On May 1, 2007, Bush used his second-ever veto to reject a bill setting a deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops, saying the debate over the conflict was \"understandable\" but insisting that a continued U.S. presence there was crucial.\n\nIn March 2008, Bush praised the Iraqi government's \"bold decision\" to launch the Battle of Basra against the Mahdi Army, calling it \"a defining moment in the history of a free Iraq\". He said he would carefully weigh recommendations from his commanding General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker about how to proceed after the end of the military buildup in the summer of 2008. He also praised the Iraqis' legislative achievements, including a pension law, a revised de-Baathification law, a new budget, an amnesty law, and a provincial powers measure that, he said, set the stage for the Iraqi elections. By July 2008, American troop deaths had reached their lowest number since the war began, and due to increased stability in Iraq, Bush announced the withdrawal of additional American forces.\n\nFollowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, Bush issued an executive order that authorized the President's Surveillance Program. The new directive allowed the National Security Agency to monitor communications between suspected terrorists outside the U.S. and parties within the U.S. without obtaining a warrant, which previously had been required by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. , the other provisions of the program remained highly classified. Once the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel questioned its original legal opinion that FISA did not apply in a time of war, the program was subsequently re-authorized by the President on the basis that the warrant requirements of FISA were implicitly superseded by the subsequent passage of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists. The program proved to be controversial; critics of the administration and organizations such as the American Bar Association argued that it was illegal. In August 2006, a U.S. district court judge ruled that the NSA electronic surveillance program was unconstitutional, but on July 6, 2007, that ruling was vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs lacked standing. On January 17, 2007, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales informed U.S. Senate leaders that the program would not be reauthorized by the President, but would be subjected to judicial oversight. Later in 2007, the NSA launched a replacement for the program, referred to as PRISM, that was subject to the oversight of the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. This program was not publicly revealed until reports by \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" emerged in June 2013.\n\nBush authorized the CIA to use waterboarding and several other \"enhanced interrogation techniques\" that several critics, including Barack Obama, would label as torture. Between 2002 and 2003, the CIA considered certain enhanced interrogation techniques, such as waterboarding, to be legal based on secret Justice Department legal opinions arguing that terror detainees were not protected by the Geneva Conventions' ban on torture, which was described as \"an unconstitutional infringement of the President's authority to conduct war\". The CIA had exercised the technique on certain key terrorist suspects under authority given to it in the Bybee Memo from the Attorney General, though that memo was later withdrawn. While not permitted by the U.S. Army Field Manuals which assert \"that harsh interrogation tactics elicit unreliable information\", the Bush administration believed these enhanced interrogations \"provided critical information\" to preserve American lives. Critics, such as former CIA officer Bob Baer, have stated that information was suspect, \"you can get anyone to confess to anything if the torture's bad enough.\"\n\nOn October 17, 2006, Bush signed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 into law. The new rule was enacted in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\", , which allowed the U.S. government to prosecute unlawful enemy combatants by military commission rather than a standard trial. The law also denied the detainees access to \"habeas corpus\" and barred the torture of prisoners. The provision of the law allowed the president to determine what constitutes \"torture\".\n\nOn March 8, 2008, Bush vetoed H.R. 2082, a bill that would have expanded congressional oversight over the intelligence community and banned the use of waterboarding as well as other forms of interrogation not permitted under the United States Army Field Manual on Human Intelligence Collector Operations, saying that \"the bill Congress sent me would take away one of the most valuable tools in the War on Terror\". In April 2009, the ACLU sued and won release of the secret memos that had authorized the Bush administration's interrogation tactics. One memo detailed specific interrogation tactics including a footnote that described waterboarding as torture as well as that the form of waterboarding used by the CIA was far more intense than authorized by the Justice Department.\n\nBush publicly condemned Kim Jong-il of North Korea and identified North Korea as one of three states in an \"axis of evil\". He said that \"the United States of America will not permit the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons.\" Within months, \"both countries had walked away from their respective commitments under the U.S.–DPRK Agreed Framework of October 1994.\" North Korea's October 9, 2006, detonation of a nuclear device further complicated Bush's foreign policy, which centered for both terms of his presidency on \"[preventing] the terrorists and regimes who seek chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons from threatening the United States and the world\". Bush condemned North Korea's position, reaffirmed his commitment to \"a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula\", and stated that \"transfer of nuclear weapons or material by North Korea to states or non-state entities would be considered a grave threat to the United States\", for which North Korea would be held accountable. On May 7, 2007, North Korea agreed to shut down its nuclear reactors immediately pending the release of frozen funds held in a foreign bank account. This was a result of a series of three-way talks initiated by the United States and including China. On September 2, 2007, North Korea agreed to disclose and dismantle all of its nuclear programs by the end of 2007. By May 2009, North Korea had restarted its nuclear program and threatened to attack South Korea.\n\nOn June 22, 2010, \"While South Korea prospers, the people of North Korea have suffered profoundly,\" he said, adding that, \"communism had resulted in dire poverty, mass starvation and brutal suppression.\n\"In recent years,\" he went on to say, \"the suffering has been compounded by the leader who wasted North Korea's precious few resources on personal luxuries and nuclear weapons programs.\"\n\nBush expanded economic sanctions on Syria. in 2003, Bush signed the Syria Accountability Act, which expanded sanctions on Syria. In early 2007, the Treasury Department, acting on a June 2005 executive order, froze American bank accounts of Syria's Higher Institute of Applied Science and Technology, Electronics Institute, and National Standards and Calibration Laboratory. Bush's order prohibits Americans from doing business with these institutions suspected of helping spread weapons of mass destruction and being supportive of terrorism. Under separate executive orders signed by Bush in 2004 and later 2007, the Treasury Department froze the assets of two Lebanese and two Syrians, accusing them of activities to \"undermine the legitimate political process in Lebanon\" in November 2007. Those designated included: Assaad Halim Hardan, a member of Lebanon's parliament and current leader of the Syrian Socialist National Party; Wi'am Wahhab, a former member of Lebanon's government (Minister of the Environment) under Prime Minister Omar Karami (2004–2005); Hafiz Makhluf, a colonel and senior official in the Syrian General Intelligence Directorate and a cousin of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad; and Muhammad Nasif Khayrbik, identified as a close adviser to Assad.\n\nBush initiated the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief Program (PEPFAR). The U.S. government had spent some $44 billion on the project since 2003 (a figure that includes $7 billion contributed to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, a multilateral organization), which saved an estimated 5 million lives. According to \"The New York Times\" correspondent Peter Baker, \"Bush did more to stop AIDS and more to help Africa than any president before or since.\"\n\nOn May 10, 2005, Vladimir Arutyunian, a native Georgian who was born to a family of ethnic Armenians, threw a live hand grenade toward a podium where Bush was speaking at Freedom Square in Tbilisi, Georgia. Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili was seated nearby. It landed in the crowd about from the podium after hitting a girl, but it did not detonate. Arutyunian was arrested in July 2005, confessed, was convicted and was given a life sentence in January 2006.\n\nBush withdrew U.S. support for several international agreements, including the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM) with Russia. He also signed the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty with Russia.\n\nBush emphasized a careful approach to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians; he denounced Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat for his support of violence, but sponsored dialogues between Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian National Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. Bush supported Sharon's unilateral disengagement plan, and lauded the democratic elections held in Palestine after Arafat's death.\nBush also expressed U.S. support for the defense of Taiwan following the stand-off in April 2001 with the People's Republic of China over the Hainan Island incident, when an EP-3E Aries II surveillance aircraft collided with a People's Liberation Army Air Force jet, leading to the detention of U.S. personnel. From 2003 to 2004, Bush authorized U.S. military intervention in Haiti and Liberia to protect U.S. interests. Bush condemned the militia attacks Darfur and denounced the killings in Sudan as genocide. Bush said that an international peacekeeping presence was critical in Darfur, but opposed referring the situation to the International Criminal Court.\n\nIn the State of the Union address in January 2003, Bush outlined a five-year strategy for global emergency AIDS relief, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. Bush announced $15 billion for this effort which directly supported life-saving antiretroviral treatment for more than 3.2 million men, women and children worldwide.\n\nOn June 10, 2007, Bush met with Albanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha and became the first president to visit Albania. Bush has voiced his support for the independence of Kosovo. Bush opposed South Ossetia's independence. On August 15, 2008, Bush said of Russia's invasion of the country of Georgia: \"Bullying and intimidation are not acceptable ways to conduct foreign policy in the 21st century.\"\nBush opened the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah. Departing from previous practice, he stood among a group of U.S. athletes rather than from a ceremonial stand or box, saying: \"On behalf of a proud, determined, and grateful nation, I declare open the Games of Salt Lake City, celebrating the Olympic Winter Games.\" In 2008, in the course of a good-will trip to Asia, he attended the Summer Olympics in Beijing.\n\nBush twice invoked , which allows a president to temporarily transfer the powers and duties of his office to the vice president, who then becomes acting president. On June 29, 2002, Bush underwent a colonoscopy and chose to invoke Section 3 of the amendment, making Vice President Dick Cheney the acting president. The medical procedure began at 7:09 am. EDT and ended at 7:29 am. EDT. Bush woke up twenty minutes later, but did not resume his presidential powers and duties until 9:24 am. EDT after the president's doctor, Richard Tubb, conducted an overall examination. Tubb said he recommended the additional time to make sure the sedative had no after effects. On July 21, 2007, Bush again invoked Section 3 in response to having to undergo a colonoscopy, again making Vice President Cheney the acting president. Bush invoked Section 3 at 7:16 am. EDT. He reclaimed his powers at 9:21 am. EDT. In both cases, Bush specifically cited Section 3 when he transferred the presidential powers to the Vice President and when he reclaimed those powers.\n\nFollowing the announcement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's retirement on July 1, 2005, Bush nominated John Roberts to succeed her. On September 5, following the death of Chief Justice William Rehnquist, this nomination was withdrawn and Bush instead nominated Roberts for Chief Justice to succeed Rehnquist. Roberts was confirmed by the Senate as the 17th Chief Justice on September 29, 2005.\n\nOn October 3, 2005, Bush nominated long time White House Counsel Harriet Miers for O'Connor's position. After facing significant opposition from both parties, who found her to be ill-prepared and uninformed on the law, Miers asked that her name be withdrawn on October 27. Four days later, on October 31, Bush nominated federal appellate judge Samuel Alito. Alito was confirmed as the 110th Supreme Court Justice on January 31, 2006.\n\nIn addition to his two Supreme Court appointments, Bush appointed 61 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 261 judges to the United States district courts. Each of these numbers, along with his total of 324 judicial appointments, is third in American history, behind both Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton. Bush experienced a number of judicial appointment controversies. Debate during one confirmation session lasted \"39 stupefying hours\" according to \"The New York Times\". On August 3, 2001, the Senate did not consent to keep existing nominations in \"status quo\", returning 40 judicial nominations, and 164 total nominations.\n\nAt the outset, Judicature magazine noted that the \"Senate Democrats were gearing up for the approaching confirmation hearings\" before the first set of nominees were sent to the Senate. It then cites \"The New York Times\" as saying \"Senate Democrats have pledged they will not automatically vote to confirm Mr. Bush's judicial nominees and will subject them to intense scrutiny.\"\n\nThe Senate confirmed only 8 out of 60 judicial nominations by October 2001. In February 2003, the Democrats successfully filibustered the nomination of Miguel Estrada.\n\nBush's upbringing in West Texas, his accent, his vacations on his Texas ranch, and his penchant for country metaphors contribute to his folksy, American cowboy image. \"I think people look at him and think John Wayne\", said Piers Morgan, editor of the British \"Daily Mirror\".\n\nBush has been parodied by the media, comedians, and other politicians. Detractors tended to cite linguistic errors made by Bush during his public speeches, which are colloquially referred to as Bushisms.\n\nIn contrast to his father—who was perceived as having troubles with an overarching unifying theme—Bush embraced larger visions and was seen as a man of larger ideas and associated huge risks.\n\nTony Blair wrote in 2010 that the caricature of Bush as being dumb is \"ludicrous\" and that Bush is \"very smart\". In an interview with \"Playboy\", \"New York Times\" columnist David Brooks said Bush \"was 60 IQ points smarter in private than he was in public. He doesn't want anybody to think he's smarter than they are, so puts on a Texas act.\"\n\nBush began his presidency with approval ratings near 50 percent. After the September 11 attacks, Bush gained an approval rating of 90 percent, maintaining 80 to 90 percent approval for four months after the attacks. It remained over 50 percent during most of his first term and then fell to as low as 19 percent in his second term.\n\nIn 2000 and again in 2004, \"Time\" magazine named George W. Bush as its Person of the Year, a title awarded to someone who the editors believe \"has done the most to influence the events of the year\". In May 2004, Gallup reported that 89 percent of the Republican electorate approved of Bush. However, the support waned due mostly to a minority of Republicans' frustration with him on issues of spending, illegal immigration, and Middle Eastern affairs.\n\nWithin the United States armed forces, according to an unscientific survey, the president was strongly supported in the 2004 presidential elections. While 73 percent of military personnel said that they would vote for Bush, 18 percent preferred his Democratic rival, John Kerry. According to Peter Feaver, a Duke University political scientist who has studied the political leanings of the U.S. military, members of the armed services supported Bush because they found him more likely than Kerry to complete the War in Iraq.\n\nBush's approval rating went below the 50 percent mark in AP-Ipsos polling in December 2004. Thereafter, his approval ratings and approval of his handling of domestic and foreign policy issues steadily dropped. Bush received heavy criticism for his handling of the Iraq War, his response to Hurricane Katrina and to the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse, NSA warrantless surveillance, the Plame affair, and Guantanamo Bay detention camp controversies. There were calls for Bush's impeachment, though most polls showed a plurality of Americans would not support such an action. The arguments offered for impeachment usually centered on the NSA warrantless surveillance controversy, the Bush administration's justification for the war in Iraq, and alleged violations of the Geneva Conventions. Representative Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), who had run against Bush during the 2004 presidential campaign, introduced 35 articles of impeachment on the floor of the House of Representatives against Bush on June 9, 2008, but Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) declared that impeachment was \"off the table\".\n\nPolls that were conducted in 2006 showed an average of 37 percent approval ratings for Bush, the lowest for any second-term president at that point of his term since Harry S. Truman in March 1951 (when Truman's approval rating was 28 percent), which contributed to what Bush called the \"thumping\" of the Republican Party in the 2006 mid-term elections. Throughout most of 2007, Bush's approval rating hovered in the mid-thirties; the average for his entire second term was 37 percent, according to Gallup.\nBy the beginning of 2008, his final year in office, Bush's approval rating had dropped to a low of just 19 percent, largely from the loss of support among Republicans. Commenting on his low poll numbers and accusations of being \"the worst president,\" Bush would say, \"I make decisions on what I think is right for the United States based upon principles. I frankly don't give a damn about the polls.\"\n\nIn the spring of that year, Bush's disapproval ratings reached the highest ever recorded for any president in the 70-year history of the Gallup poll, with 69 percent of those polled in April 2008 disapproving of the job Bush was doing as president and 28 percent approving—although the majority (66 percent) of Republicans still approved of his job performance.\n\nIn polls conducted in the fall, just before the 2008 election, his approval ratings remained at record lows of 19 to 20 percent, while his disapproval ratings ranged from 67 percent to as high as 75 percent. In polling conducted January 9–11, 2009, his final job approval rating by Gallup was 34 percent, which placed him on par with Jimmy Carter and Harry S. Truman, the other presidents whose final Gallup ratings measured in the low 30s (Richard Nixon's final Gallup approval rating was even lower, at 24 percent). According to a CBS News/\"New York Times\" poll conducted January 11–15, 2009, Bush's final approval rating in office was 22 percent, the lowest in American history.\n\nBush was criticized internationally and targeted by the global anti-war and anti-globalization campaigns for his administration's foreign policy. Views of him within the international community—even in France, a close ally of the United States—were more negative than those of most previous American presidents in history.\n\nBush was described as having especially close personal relationships with Tony Blair of Great Britain and Vicente Fox of Mexico, although formal relations were sometimes strained. Other leaders, such as Afghan president Hamid Karzai, Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni, Spanish prime minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez, openly criticized the president. Later in Bush's presidency, tensions arose between him and Vladimir Putin, which led to a cooling of their relationship.\nIn 2006, most respondents in 18 of 21 countries surveyed around the world were found to hold an unfavorable opinion of Bush. Respondents indicated that they judged his administration as negative for world security. In 2007, the Pew Global Attitudes Project reported that during the Bush presidency, attitudes towards the United States, and towards Americans, became less favorable around the world.\n\nA March 2007 survey of Arab opinion conducted by Zogby International and the University of Maryland found that Bush was the most disliked leader in the Arab world.\n\nThe Pew Research Center's 2007 Global Attitudes poll found that out of 47 countries, in only nine countries did most respondents express \"a lot of confidence\" or \"some confidence\" in Bush: Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Israel, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, and Uganda.\n\nDuring a June 2007 visit to the predominantly Muslim Albania, Bush was greeted enthusiastically. Albania has a population of 2.8 million, has troops in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and the country's government is highly supportive of American foreign policy. A huge image of the President was hung in the middle of the capital city of Tirana flanked by Albanian and American flags while a local street was named after him. A shirt-sleeved statue of Bush was unveiled in Fushë-Krujë, a few kilometers northwest of Tirana. The Bush administration's support for the independence of Albanian-majority Kosovo, while endearing him to the Albanians, has troubled U.S. relations with Serbia, leading to the February 2008 torching of the U.S. embassy in Belgrade.\n\nOn May 7, 2005, during an official state visit to Latvia, Bush was awarded the Order of the Three Stars presented to him by President Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga. A few places outside the United States bear Bush's name. In 2005, the Tbilisi City Council voted to rename a street in honor of the U.S. president. Previously known as Melaani Drive, the street links the Georgian capital's airport with the city center and was used by Bush's motorcade during his visit four months earlier. A street in Tirana, formerly known as \"Rruga Puntorët e Rilendjes\", situated directly outside the Albanian Parliament, was renamed after Bush a few days before he made the first-ever visit by an American president to Albania in June 2007. In Jerusalem, a small plaza with a monument bearing his name is also dedicated to Bush.\n\nIn 2012, Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves awarded Bush the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana for his work in expanding NATO.\n\nThe George W. Bush presidency has been ranked among the worst in surveys of presidential scholars published in the late 2000s and 2010s.\n\nAfter his re-election in 2004, Bush received increasingly heated criticism from across the political spectrum for his handling of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and other challenges. Amid this criticism, the Democratic Party regained control of Congress in the 2006 elections. In December 2007, the United States entered its longest post-World War II recession, often referred to as the \"Great Recession\", prompting the Bush administration to obtain congressional passage of multiple economic programs intended to preserve the country's financial system. Nationally, Bush was both one of the most popular and unpopular presidents in history, having received the highest recorded presidential approval ratings in the wake of the September 11 attacks, as well as one of the lowest approval ratings during the 2008 financial crisis.\n\nBush said in 2013, \"Ultimately history will judge the decisions I made, and I won't be around because it will take time for the objective historians to show up. So I am pretty comfortable with it. I did what I did.\"\n\nFollowing the inauguration of Barack Obama, Bush and his family flew from Andrews Air Force Base to a homecoming celebration in Midland, Texas, following which they returned to their ranch in Crawford, Texas. They bought a home in the Preston Hollow neighborhood of Dallas, Texas, where they settled down.\n\nHe makes regular appearances at various events throughout the Dallas/Fort Worth area, most notably when he conducted the opening coin toss at the Dallas Cowboys first game in the team's new stadium in Arlington and an April 2009 visit to a Texas Rangers game, where he thanked the people of Dallas for helping him settle in and was met with a standing ovation. He also attended every home playoff game for the Texas Rangers 2010 season and, accompanied by his father, threw out the ceremonial first pitch at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington for Game 4 of the 2010 World Series on October 31, 2010.\n\nOn August 6, 2013, Bush was successfully treated for a coronary artery blockage with a stent. The blockage had been found during an annual medical examination.\n\nIn reaction to the 2016 shooting of Dallas police officers, Bush stated: \"Laura and I are heartbroken by the heinous acts of violence in our city last night. Murdering the innocent is always evil, never more so than when the lives taken belong to those who protect our families and communities.\"\n\nSince leaving office, Bush has kept a relatively low profile though he has made public appearances, most notably after the release of his memoirs in 2010 and for the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks in 2011. In March 2009, he delivered his first post-presidency speech in Calgary, Alberta, appeared via video on \"The Colbert Report\" during which he praised U.S. troops for earning a \"special place in American history,\" and attended the funeral of Senator Ted Kennedy. Bush made his debut as a motivational speaker on October 26 at the \"Get Motivated\" seminar in Dallas. In the aftermath of the Fort Hood shooting that took place on November 5, 2009, in Texas, the Bushes paid an undisclosed visit to the survivors and victims' families the day following the shooting, having contacted the base commander requesting that the visit be private and not involve press coverage.\nBush released his memoirs, \"Decision Points\", on November 9, 2010. During a pre-release appearance promoting the book, Bush said he considered his biggest accomplishment to be keeping \"the country safe amid a real danger\", and his greatest failure to be his inability to secure the passage of Social Security reform. He also made news defending his administration's enhanced interrogation techniques, specifically the waterboarding of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, saying, \"I'd do it again to save lives.\"\n\nIn 2012, he wrote the foreword of \"\", an economics book published by the George W. Bush Presidential Center. He also presented the book at the Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas, Texas.\n\nBush appeared on NBC's \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" on November 19, 2013, along with the former First Lady, Laura Bush. When asked by Leno why he does not comment publicly about the Obama administration, Bush said, \"I don't think it's good for the country to have a former president criticize his successor.\" Despite this statement, on Saturday, April 25, 2015, Bush criticized President Barack Obama at a meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition at the Venetian Hotel in Las Vegas. Bush criticized Obama's handling of Iran, specifically with respect to sanctions and a nuclear deal, saying: \"You think the Middle East is chaotic now? Imagine what it looks like for our grandchildren. That's how Americans should view the deal.\" Bush also attacked Obama's withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq in 2011, calling it a \"strategic blunder\", borrowing a term that had been used by South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham.\n\nAlongside the 2014 United States–Africa Leaders Summit, Bush, Michelle Obama, the State Department, and the George W. Bush Institute hosted a daylong forum on education and health with the spouses of the African leaders attending the summit. Bush urged African leaders to avoid discriminatory laws that make the treatment of HIV/AIDS more difficult.\n\nBush has spoken in favor of increased global participation of women in politics and societal matters in foreign countries.\n\nOn November 2, 2014, Bush spoke at an event to 200 business and civic leaders at the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum to raise awareness for the upcoming Museum of the Bible in Washington D.C.\n\nBush published a biography of his father, George Bush, called \"\". It was released on November 11, 2014.\n\nIn an interview published by \"Israel Hayom\" magazine on June 12, 2015, Bush said that \"boots on the ground\" would be needed in order to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS). He added that people had said during his presidency that he should withdraw American troops from Iraq, but he chose the opposite, sending 30,000 more troops in order to defeat Al Qaeda in Iraq, and that Al Qaeda in Iraq was defeated. Bush was also asked about Iran but declined to answer, stating that any answer he gives would be interpreted as undermining President Barack Obama.\n\nIn February 2016, George W. Bush spoke and campaigned for his brother Jeb Bush in South Carolina during a rally for the Jeb Bush presidential campaign in the 2016 Republican Party presidential primaries.\n\nWhile Bush endorsed the Republican Party's 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney, he declined to endorse the 2016 Republican nominee Donald Trump and he did not attend the 2016 Republican National Convention, which formally nominated Trump. On the eve of Trump's nomination, it was reported that Bush had privately expressed concern about the current direction of the Republican Party and told a group of his former aides and advisors, \"I'm worried that I will be the last Republican president.\" Bush and his wife Laura did not vote for Trump in the 2016 presidential election according to a spokesperson for the Bush family, instead choosing to leave their presidential ballots blank. After the election, Bush, his father, and his brother Jeb called Trump on the phone to congratulate him on his victory. Both he and Laura attended Trump's inauguration, and images of Bush struggling to put on a rain poncho during the ceremony became an internet meme. While leaving the event, Bush allegedly described the ceremony as \"some weird shit\".\n\nIn February 2017, Bush released a book of his own portraits of veterans called \"Portraits of Courage\" (full title: \"Portraits of Courage: A Commander in Chief's Tribute to America's Warriors\").\n\nFollowing the white nationalist Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, Bush and his father released a joint statement condemning the violence and ideologies present at the rally; \"America must always reject racial bigotry, anti-Semitism, and hatred in all forms. As we pray for Charlottesville, we are all reminded of the fundamental truths recorded by that city’s most prominent citizen in the Declaration of Independence: we are all created equal and endowed by our Creator with unalienable rights. We know these truths to be everlasting because we have seen the decency and greatness of our country.\" Their statement came as President Trump was facing controversy over his statements about the rally. Subsequently, Bush gave a speech in New York where he noted of the current political climate, \"Bigotry seems emboldened. Our politics seems more vulnerable to conspiracy theories and outright fabrication.\" He continued, \"Bigotry in any form is blasphemy against the American creed and it means the very identity of our nation depends on the passing of civic ideals to the next generation,\" while urging citizens to oppose threats to American democracy and be positive role models for young people. The speech was widely interpreted as a denouncement of Donald Trump and his ideologies, despite Bush not mentioning Trump by name.\n\nIn April 2018, Bush and his father met in Texas with Mohammad bin Salman, the crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn January 2010, at President Obama's request, Bush and Bill Clinton established the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund to raise contributions for relief and recovery efforts following the 2010 Haiti earthquake earlier that month.\n\nOn May 2, 2011, President Obama called Bush, who was at a restaurant with his wife, to inform him that Osama bin Laden had been killed. The Bushes joined the Obamas in New York City to mark the tenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. At the Ground Zero memorial, Bush read a letter that President Abraham Lincoln wrote to a widow who lost five sons during the Civil War.\n\nOn September 7, 2017, Bush partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities.\n\nAfter serving as president, Bush began painting as a hobby after reading Winston Churchill's essay \"Painting as a Pastime\". Subjects have included people, dogs, and still life. He has also painted self-portraits and portraits of world leaders, including Vladimir Putin and Tony Blair. In February 2017, Bush released a book of portraits of veterans, \"Portraits of Courage\". The net proceeds from his book are donated to the George W. Bush Presidential Center.\n\nBill Arning, director of the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston, called his portraits \"thickly painted in what I would call 'high-amateur' mode\" and wrote, \"I would say they need to be less based on photographic reproduction. You can tell when someone is taking a found photograph and making a painting out of it [...] I think he'd be well advised to work from other, multiple photographic sources or the real person to get a little bit more liveliness going on.\"\n\n\nPresident Bush's legacy continues to develop today. Supporters credit Bush's counterterrorism policies with preventing another major terrorist attack from occurring in the US after 9/11 and also praise individual policies such as the Medicare prescription drug benefit and the AIDS relief program known as PEPFAR. Critics often point to his handling of the Iraq War, specifically the failure to find weapons of mass destruction, that were the main rationale behind the initial invasion—as well as his handling of tax policy, Hurricane Katrina, climate change and the 2008 financial crisis—as proof that George W. Bush was unfit to be president.\n\nSeveral historians and commentators hold the view that Bush was one of the most consequential presidents in American history. Princeton University scholar Julian Zelizer described Bush's presidency as a \"transformative\" one, and said that \"some people hate him, some people love him, but I do think he'll have a much more substantive perception as time goes on\". Bryon Williams of \"The Huffington Post\" referred to Bush as \"the most noteworthy president since FDR\" and said that the Patriot Act \"increased authority of the executive branch at the expense of judicial opinions about when searches and seizures are reasonable\" as evidence. Bush's administration presided over the largest tax cuts since the Reagan administration, and his homeland security reforms proved to be the most significant expansion of the federal government since the Great Society. Much of these policies have endured in the administrations of his two immediate successors, Barack Obama and Donald Trump. A 2010 Siena Research Institute survey of the opinions of historians, political scientists, and presidential scholars ranked him 39th out of 43 presidents. The survey respondents gave President Bush low ratings on his handling of the U.S. economy, communication, ability to compromise, foreign policy accomplishments, and intelligence.\n\nAmong the public, his reputation has improved somewhat since his presidency ended in 2009. In February 2012, Gallup reported that \"Americans still rate George W. Bush among the worst presidents, though their views have become more positive in the three years since he left office.\" Gallup had earlier noted that Bush's favorability ratings in public opinion surveys had begun to rise a year after he had left office, from 40 percent in January 2009 and 35 percent in March 2009, to 45 percent in July 2010, a period during which he had remained largely out of the news. Other pollsters have noted similar trends of slight improvement in Bush's personal favorability since the end of his presidency. In April 2013, Bush's approval rating stood at 47 percent approval and 50 percent disapproval in a poll jointly conducted for \"The Washington Post\" and ABC, his highest approval rating since December 2005. Bush had achieved notable gains among seniors, non-college whites, and moderate and conservative Democrats since leaving office, although majorities disapproved of his handling of the economy (53 percent) and the Iraq War (57 percent). His 47 percent approval rating was equal to that of President Obama's in the same polling period. A CNN poll conducted that same month found that 55 percent of Americans said Bush's presidency had been a failure, with opinions divided along party lines, and 43 percent of independents calling it a success. Bush's public image saw greater improvement starting in 2017, which has been interpreted as Democrats viewing him more favorably in response to Donald Trump's presidency, an assessment that has also been expressed by Bush himself.\n\n\nAcademic\n\nReflections on the Bush presidency\n\nPrimary sources\n\nOfficial\nSpeeches and statements\nMedia coverage\nOther\n"}
{"id": "16176203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16176203", "title": "Golden Star Festival", "text": "Golden Star Festival\n\nThe Golden Star Festival is a festival held in Tibet falling between the 7th and 8th month of the Tibetan Calendar (August-September).\n\nThe Golden Star festival is held to wash away sins, particularly passion, greed and jealousy and to abandon ego. Ritual bathing in rivers takes place and picnics are held.\n\n"}
{"id": "17815307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17815307", "title": "Great Saxon Revolt", "text": "Great Saxon Revolt\n\nThe Great Saxon Revolt was a civil war between 1077 and 1088 early in the history of the Holy Roman Empire led by a group of opportunistic German princes who elected as their figurehead the duke of Swabia and anti-king Rudolf of Rheinfeld, a two-way brother-in-law of the young Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor (Henry was crowned at the age of six and took on his offices when aged sixteen). It followed the Saxon Rebellion of 1073–75.\n\nThe duke had played power politics with the young Emperor several years earlier in his reign, and was demonstrably ruthless (kidnapping and forcing the marriage to Henry's sister) even without the support of the other princes of the Kingdom of Germany. The allied nobility were moved to take advantage of the momentary weakness of the Emperor in a period when he was at odds and had been excommunicated by Pope Gregory VII over the issue of who was entitled to appoint whom, who was therefore subservient to whom, as well as a dispute over the Emperor-elect's desire to divorce from his arranged wife.\n\nAfter meeting with a penitent Henry IV in the fall of 1076, the pope had removed the first excommunication of the impetuous and hot-headed twenty-six-year-old monarch. However, during the same fall-winter season the organizers of the revolt by the nobility were arranging for all to meet in late winter to further their own ends against the interests of the young emperor-elect. With the delays of news and events imposed by High Middle Ages travel, communications heralding the rapprochement were delayed enough that the decision was made to just go ahead and meet anyway. The diverse council of Saxon, Bavarian, and Carinthian princes met in the March 1077, about as soon as early spring travel conditions allowed, in Forchheim (Oberfranken), and despite the reconciliation between the pope and Henry decided to press forward with their desires to expand their own powers.\n\nThe group consisted of high-ranking secular rulers as well as churchmen—who had up until the very recent Investiture Controversy and crisis been appointed by the Holy Roman Emperor—the new canon law reforms which set up the college of cardinals had heavily involved Pope Gregory VII. Prior to Henry's crowning at the age of six as the Emperor, the Emperor had been crowned by the Pope, who in turn he'd appointed. Henry's age of inheritance had been a flash point leading to much discussion and controversy spurring the reform. As the elected anti-king, Rudolf hoped to achieve the greater nobilities' backing by promising to respect the electoral concept of the monarchy (thus accepting a more limited and greater circumscribed set of powers as King of Germany) and the pope's backing by openly declaring his willingness to be subservient to the pope, as King of the Romans. \n\nDespite these difficulties, Henry's situation in Germany improved in the following years. When Rudolf was crowned at Mainz in May 1077 by one of the plotters, Siegfried I, Archbishop of Mainz, the population revolted and forced him, the archbishop, and other nobles to flee to Saxony. Positioned there, Rudolf was geographically and then militarily deprived of his territories (later he was also stripped of Swabia) by Henry. After the inconclusive battle of Mellrichstadt (7 August 1077) and the defeat of Henry's forces in the Battle of Flarchheim (27 January 1080), Gregory VII, who had a personal animus against the Emperor-elect due to his intemperate language in earlier discourse, decided to flip-flop his decision supporting Henry to instead support the revolt and launched a second anathema (excommunication) against Henry in March 1080, thereby supporting the anti-king duke Rudolf. However, there was ample evidence that Gregory's actions were rooted in hate for the Emperor-elect instead of theology and so had an unfavorable personal impact on the Pope's reputation and authority, leading much of Germany to re-embrace Henry's cause.\n\nOn 14 October 1080 the armies of the two rival kings met at the White Elster river during the Battle of Elster in the plain of Leipzig and Henry's forces again suffered a military defeat, but won the battle with a strategic outcome— the anti-king Rudolf of Swabia was mortally wounded and died the next day at nearby Merseburg, and the rebellion against Henry lost much of its momentum.\n\nHenry convoked a synod of the highest German clergy in Bamberg and Brixen (June 1080). Here Henry had Pope Gregory (who he had dubbed \"The False Monk\") deposed and replaced him by appointing the primate of Ravenna, Guibert (now known as the antipope Clement III), reasserting the Holy Roman Emperors' traditional right to appoint the pope for his side of the Investiture Controversy—though who was in the right was unclear in the day—the emperor reacting to retain his traditional prerogatives against the new canon law appointing the pope via the College of Cardinals. For the next few years, the civil war shifted south of the Alps.\n\nWhile Henry campaigned there, the German aristocracy replaced their king Rudolf with the belated election of king Hermann of Salm (ca. 1035 – 28 September 1088), also known as Herman of Luxembourg, as their new anti-king in August 1081, but he was fought successfully to a stalemate by Frederick I, Duke of Swabia (Frederick of Swabia) — Rudolf's Henry-appointed successor in Swabia who had married Henry's daughter Agnes of Germany. Henry's campaign against the pope in Italy resulted in an accommodation and he was crowned Holy Roman Emperor by Pope Gregory VII in 1084, leaving the anti-king Hermann of Salm in an awkward position.\n\nHermann's plan to gather an army on the banks of the Danube and march into Italy in support of the pope was dashed by the death of his main retainer, Otto of Nordheim. When Henry, now the crowned Holy Roman Emperor, returned north and came into Saxony with an army in 1085, Hermann fled to Denmark. He returned, however, in alliance with Welf I, Duke of Bavaria, and defeated the emperor at the Battle of Bleichfeld on the River Main, taking Würzburg. Soon after his victory, however, he tired of being a pawn in the hands of the grandees and retired to his familial estates. The Great Saxon Revolt civil war may have ended in 1088, for in 1089 Countess Matilda married Duke Welf II of Bavaria, but Duke Welf I only died in 1101.\n\n"}
{"id": "7131610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7131610", "title": "Great Texas Balloon Race", "text": "Great Texas Balloon Race\n\nGreat Texas Balloon Race is a hot air balloon festival held each July near the City of Longview, Texas. It is billed as \"The longest running hot-air balloon event in Texas.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "89107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89107", "title": "Guggenheim Museum Bilbao", "text": "Guggenheim Museum Bilbao\n\nThe Guggenheim Museum Bilbao is a museum of modern and contemporary art designed by Canadian-American architect Frank Gehry, and located in Bilbao, Basque Country, Spain. The museum was inaugurated on 18 October 1997 by King Juan Carlos I of Spain. Built alongside the Nervion River, which runs through the city of Bilbao to the Cantabrian Sea, it is one of several museums belonging to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and features permanent and visiting exhibits of works by Spanish and international artists. It is one of the largest museums in Spain.\n\nOne of the most admired works of contemporary architecture, the building has been hailed as a \"signal moment in the architectural culture\", because it represents \"one of those rare moments when critics, academics, and the general public were all completely united about something.\" The museum was the building most frequently named as one of the most important works completed since 1980 in the 2010 World Architecture Survey among architecture experts.\n\nIn 1991, the Basque government suggested to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation that it would fund a Guggenheim museum to be built in Bilbao's decrepit port area, once the city's main source of income. The Basque government agreed to cover the US$100 million construction cost, to create a US$50 million acquisitions fund, to pay a one-time US$20 million fee to the Guggenheim and to subsidize the museum's US$12 million annual budget. In exchange, the Foundation agreed to manage the institution, rotate parts of its permanent collection through the Bilbao museum and organize temporary exhibitions.\n\nThe museum was built by Ferrovial, at a cost of US$89 million. About 5,000 residents of Bilbao attended a preopening extravaganza outside the museum on the night preceding the official opening, featuring an outdoor light show and concerts. On 18 October 1997 the museum was opened by Juan Carlos I of Spain.\n\nThe Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation selected Frank Gehry as the architect, and its director, Thomas Krens, encouraged him to design something daring and innovative. The curves on the exterior of the building were intended to appear random; the architect said that \"the randomness of the curves are designed to catch the light\". The interior \"is designed around a large, light-filled atrium with views of Bilbao's estuary and the surrounding hills of the Basque country\". The atrium, which Gehry nicknamed \"The Flower\" because of its shape, serves as the organizing center of the museum.\n\nWhen the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao opened to the public in 1997, it was immediately hailed as one of the world's most spectacular buildings in the style of Deconstructivism (although Gehry does not associate himself with that architectural movement), a masterpiece of the 20th century. Architect Philip Johnson described it as \"the greatest building of our time\", while critic Calvin Tomkins, in \"The New Yorker\", characterized it as \"a fantastic dream ship of undulating form in a cloak of titanium,\" its brilliantly reflective panels also reminiscent of fish scales. Herbert Muschamp praised its \"mercurial brilliance\" in \"The New York Times Magazine\". \"The Independent\" calls the museum \"an astonishing architectural feat\". The building inspired other structures of similar design across the globe.\n\nThe museum is seamlessly integrated into the urban context, unfolding its interconnecting shapes of stone, glass and titanium on a site along the Nervión River in the ancient industrial heart of the city; while modest from street level, it is most impressive when viewed from the river. With a total , of which are dedicated to exhibition space, it had more exhibition space than the three Guggenheim collections in New York and Venice combined at that time. The 11,000 m of exhibition space are distributed over nineteen galleries, ten of which follow a classic orthogonal plan that can be identified from the exterior by their stone finishes. The remaining nine galleries are irregularly shaped and can be identified from the outside by their swirling organic forms and titanium cladding. The largest gallery measures 30 meters wide and 130 meters long (98 ft × 427 ft). In 2005, it housed Richard Serra's monumental installation \"The Matter of Time\", which Robert Hughes dubbed \"courageous and sublime\".\nThe building was constructed on time and budget, which is rare for architecture of this type. In an interview in \"Harvard Design Magazine\", Gehry explained how he did it. First, he ensured that what he calls the \"organization of the artist\" prevailed during construction, to prevent political and business interests from interfering with the design. Second, he made sure he had a detailed and realistic cost estimate before proceeding. Third, he used computer visualizations produced by Rick Smith employing Dassault Systemes' CATIA V3 software and collaborated closely with the individual building trades to control costs during construction.\n\nKLM Royal Dutch Airlines donated $1,000,000 towards its construction.\n\nIn the fall of 1993, architects at Gehry Partners began to utilize Dassault Systemes’ CATIA software for the schematic design phase of the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao to digitize and model the exterior of the Museum project.  The architects applied Master Modeling and Virtual Build Processes they learned from Rick Smith and his use of the same techniques on the Walt Disney Concert Hall during the previous two years. The success and global awareness of the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao ushered in a new era of Virtual Building and was a catalyst for what would become popularly known as Building Information Modeling seven years later.\n\nPulitzer prize winning architectural critic Paul Goldberger shares the words of others that Bilbao \"could not have been constructed without CATIA\". He further relays that Bilbao \"was the first building for which CATIA played a role in almost every aspect of the design and construction process\".\n\nThe museum notably houses \"large-scale, site-specific works and installations by contemporary artists\", such as Richard Serra's 100-meter-long (340 ft) \"Snake\", and displays the work of Basque artists, \"as well as housing a selection of works\" from the Foundation's modern art collection. In 1997, the museum opened with \"The Guggenheim Museums and the Art of This Century\", a 300-piece overview of 20th-century art from Cubism to new media art. Most pieces came from the Guggenheim's permanent collection, but the museum also acquired paintings by Willem de Kooning, Mark Rothko and Clyfford Still and commissioned new works by Francesco Clemente, Anselm Kiefer, Jenny Holzer and Richard Serra.\n\nThe exhibitions change often; the museum generally hosts thematic exhibitions, centered for example on Chinese or Russian art. Traditional paintings and sculptures are a minority compared to installations and electronic forms. The highlight of the collection, and its only permanent exhibit, is \"The Matter of Time\" (incorporating an earlier work, \"Snake\"), a series of weathering steel sculptures designed by Serra, which is housed in the 130-meter Arcelor Gallery (formerly known as the Fish Gallery but renamed in 2005 for the steel manufacturer that sponsored the project). The collections usually highlight Avant-garde art, 20th century abstraction, and non-objective art. When the museum announced the 2011 exhibition \"The Luminous Interval\", a show of artwork belonging to Greek businessman Dimitris Daskalopoulos, who is also a museum trustee, this met with criticism of, among other things, too much curatorial power for a serious benefactor. In 2005, Olivier Berggruen and Ingrid Pfeiffer curated a retrospective of Yves Klein.\nIn 2012 drew over 290,000 visitors to the museum.\nThe museum was opened as part of a revitalization effort for the city of Bilbao. Almost immediately after its opening, the Guggenheim Bilbao became a popular tourist attraction, drawing visitors from around the globe. In its first three years, almost 4 million tourists visited the museum, helping to generate about €500 million in economic activity. The regional council estimated that the money visitors spent on hotels, restaurants, shops and transport allowed it to collect €100 million in taxes, which more than paid for the building cost.\nThe building was featured in the 1999 James Bond film \"The World Is Not Enough\" in the pre-title sequence and the Tamil film \"Sivaji\" (2007), in which it is the setting for the music video of the song \"Style\", composed by A. R. Rahman. Mariah Carey's music video \"Sweetheart\", directed by Hype Williams, shows singers Jermaine Dupri and Carey in various locations at the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao.\n\nThe so-called \"Bilbao effect\" refers to how the museum transformed the city. The term, however, has also been employed by critics who have denounced the museum as a symbol of gentrification and cultural imperialism. \"The Wall Street Journal\" suggested that the Bilbao effect should be called the Bilbao anomaly, \"for the iconic chemistry between the design of building, its image and the public turns out to be rather rare.\"\n\nArt critic Brian O'Doherty was positive about approaching the building but criticized the museum's interior effect, saying \"[O]nce you get indoors things are a little different. Even the so-called site-specific works didn't look too happy to me. Most of the interior spaces are too vast.\" He went on to describe how works by Braque, Picasso and Rodchenko \"looked absurd\" and tiny on the museum's walls.\n\nAccording to a report issued in 2007 by the Basque Court of Auditors, the museum paid more than US$27 million for the acquisition of art between 2002 and 2005, including Serra's \"The Matter of Time\" for the cavernous ground-floor gallery. After another audit in 2008 revealed that money was missing from accounts, the Foundation said that it filed a case against the director, Roberto Cearsolo Barrenetxea, \"for financial and accounting irregularities\", asserting that he had admitted diverting money from two companies that manage the Guggenheim Bilbao building and its art collection to his own account since 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5879462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879462", "title": "Gunla", "text": "Gunla\n\nGunlā (Nepal Bhasa: गुंला) (also spelt Gumlā) is the tenth month in the Nepal Sambat lunar calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. It corresponds to August of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\nGunla is a holy month for Newar Buddhists when they recite the scriptures, observe fasts and visit places of worship playing devotional music. It is one of the most important events in Newar Buddhism. The practice of observing the sacred month is descended from the rains retreat dating from the Buddha's time when monks stayed in one place and taught the Dharma.\n\nDevotees mark the holy month by making daily early morning pilgrimages to Swayambhu in Kathmandu and other Buddhist temples playing Gunla Bajan music. The musical bands represent various localities of the city.\n\nThe devout recite the scriptures at home and sacred courtyards. Some undergo fasting. Another devotional activity during Gunla is Dyah Thāyegu (द्यः थायेगु) when devotees make little stupas out of black clay using a mold.\n\nPanjaran (पन्जरां) is the alms giving festival. Males of the Bajracharya and Shakya castes make an alms round of the city and devotees give them rice and money. Shrines are set up with Buddha statues and paubha scroll paintings at private homes, courtyards and on the roadsides from where the gifts are distributed. The event is held on different dates in Kathmandu valley and Lalitpur.\n\nOn the first day of the second fortnight of Gunla, large images of the Dipankara Buddha and paubha paintings are put on display in sacred courtyards. The ceremony is known as Bahidyah Bwayegu (बहीद्यः ब्वयेगु).\n\nOn this day in a festival known as Bahidyah Swahwanegu (बहीद्यः स्वःवनेगु), the musical bands followed by residents of the locality visit the sacred courtyards in a procession to view the exhibits. The festival occurs on the day after the full moon and coincides with the Gai Jatra festival.\n\nAnother major day for Gunla Bajan societies is the ceremony of Nisala Chhawanegu (निसला छाःवनेगु) when they make offerings to Swayambhu, and hold Gunla Bajan concerts at one's neighborhoods.\n\nMatayā (मतया:) (meaning \"light procession\" in Nepal Bhasa) is one of the most important religious celebrations in Lalitpur. The festival celebrates the event when the Buddha overcame Mara, or temptation, and attained the light of wisdom.\n\nDevotees visit Buddhist shrines and sacred courtyards in the city in a winding file and offer worship to the images. The participants also consist of musical bands and actors dressed in colorful costumes. The circuitous festival route takes the whole day to complete.\n\nThe 5th day of the bright fortnight is Nag Panchami, a day dedicated to serpents. The 1st day of the dark fortnight is Sāpāru or Gai Jātrā when processions are held in memory of family members deceased in the past year. The participants wear cow costumes and make a tour of the city.\n\nThe 8th day of the dark fortnight is the festival of Krishna Janmashtami which celebrates the birth of the Hindu deity Krishna. Gokarna Aunsi falls on the 15th day of the dark fortnight or Āmāi. This is Father's Day and is also known as Bauyā Khwā Swayegu (\"Looking upon Father's Face\").\n\n"}
{"id": "5952697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5952697", "title": "Harrowdown Hill", "text": "Harrowdown Hill\n\n\"Harrowdown Hill\" is a song by Radiohead singer Thom Yorke, released on his debut solo album \"The Eraser\" (2006). It was released as a single on 21 August 2006, peaking at #23 in the UK Singles Chart. A music video was released on 31 July 2006 and had its first play on Channel 4.\n\nYorke wrote the song about death of David Kelly, a British weapons expert who told a reporter that the British government had falsely identified weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. It is named after the Harrowdown Hill woods where Kelly's body was found.\n\nAccording to the \"Globe and Mail\", \"Harrowdown Hill\" resembles a love song with a sense of \"menace\" and \"grim political showdown\". Yorke said the song had been \"kicking around\" during the sessions for Radiohead's sixth album, Hail to the Thief (2003), but felt it could not have worked as a Radiohead song.\n\nThe lyrics are about David Kelly, a British weapons expert who is presumed to have committed suicide after telling a reporter that the British government had falsely identified weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Kelly's body was found in the Harrowdown Hill woods near Yorke's former school in Oxfordshire. \n\nYorke was uncomfortable about the subject matter and conscious of Kelly's grieving family, but felt that \"not to write it would perhaps have been worse\". In an interview with the \"Observer\", he said it was \"the most angry song\" he had ever written. He told the \"Globe and Mail\": \"The government and the Ministry of Defence were implicated in his death. They were directly responsible for outing him and that put him in a position of unbearable pressure that he couldn't deal with, and they knew they were doing it and what it would do to him.\"\n\nThe \"Harrowdown Hill\" music video was directed by Chel White of BENT Image Lab in 2006. It features stop-motion eagle animation by David Russo, time-lapse footage by Mark Eiffert, and a technique known as Smallgantics. It was released on 31 July 2006 and had its first play on Channel 4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17506479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17506479", "title": "Heti Válasz", "text": "Heti Válasz\n\nHeti Válasz is a conservative weekly news magazine published in Hungary.\n\n\"Heti Válasz\" was established in 2001. It is published weekly on Thursdays and is headquartered in Budapest. The magazine covers news on politics, economy and culture, and has a conservative stance. Since its inception the magazine has had different owners. In 2010 the owners was a joint venture which is established by a Hungarian media entrepreneur and politician, Tamás Fellegi, and a Danish venture capital firm, DEFAP.\n\n\"Heti Válasz\" has a conservative stance. The editor-in-chief of the weekly, Gábor Borokai was the previous press spokesperson for Fidesz leader Viktor Orbán between 1998-2002.\n\nIn the fourth quarter of 2009 \"Heti Válasz\" had a circulation of 32,217 copies. As of 2010 its circulation was 20,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "205834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205834", "title": "Humiliation", "text": "Humiliation\n\nHumiliation is the abasement of pride, which creates mortification or leads to a state of being humbled or reduced to lowliness or submission. It is an emotion felt by a person whose social status, either by force or willingly, has just decreased. It can be brought about through intimidation, physical or mental mistreatment or trickery, or by embarrassment if a person is revealed to have committed a socially or legally unacceptable act. Whereas humility can be sought alone as a means to de-emphasize the ego, humiliation must involve other person(s), though not necessarily directly or willingly. \n\nHumiliation is currently an active research topic, and is now seen as an important – and complex – core dynamic in human relationships, having implications at intrapersonal, interpersonal, institutional and international levels.\n\nA person who suffers from severe humiliation could experience major depressions, suicidal states, and severe anxiety states such as post-traumatic stress disorder. The loss of status, like losing a job or being labeled as a liar or discredited unfairly, could cause people inability to behave normally in their communities. Humiliated individuals could be provoked and crave for revenge, and some people could feel worthless, hopeless and helpless, creating suicidal thoughts if justice is not met. It also can lead to new insights, activism and a new kinship with marginalized groups.\n\nFeelings of humiliation can produce 'humiliated fury' which, when turned inward can result in apathy and depression, and when turned outward can give rise to paranoia, sadistic behaviour and fantasies of revenge. Klein explains, \"When it is outwardly directed, humiliated fury unfortunately creates additional victims, often including innocent bystanders ... . When it is inwardly directed, the resulting self-hate renders victims incapable of meeting their own needs, let alone having energy available to love and care for others.\" He goes on to say, \"In either case, those who are consumed by humiliated fury are absorbed in themselves or their cause, wrapped in wounded pride...\" \n\nA study by researchers at the University of Michigan revealed that “the same regions of the brain that become active in response to painful sensory experiences are activated during intense experiences of social rejection.” In other words, humiliation and isolation are experienced as intensely as physical pain.\n\nHumiliating of one person by another (the humiliator) is often used as a way of asserting power over them, and is a common form of oppression or abuse used in a police, military, or prison context during legal interrogations or illegal torture sessions. Many now-obsolete public punishments were deliberately designed to be humiliating, e.g. tarring and feathering lawbreakers, pillory, \"mark of shame\" (stigma) as a means of \"making an example\" of a person and presenting a deterrent to others. Some practices, such as tarring and feathering, became tools of unofficial mob justice. In folk customs such as the English skimmington rides and rough music (and their continental equivalents, such as the French Charivari), dramatic public demonstrations of moral disapproval were enacted to humiliate transgressors and drive them out of the community.\n\nSome U.S. states have experimented with humiliating or shaming lawbreakers by publishing their names and indicating their offense (e.g., with soliciting prostitutes or drinking and driving). In 2010, there was public outcry about reports showing police in Dongguan and Guangdong in China leading a parade of arrested prostitutes for the purpose of humiliating them. The national Ministry of Public Security reprimanded the local police and affirmed that such punishments are not allowed.\nDonald Klein described humiliation as \"a powerful factor in human affairs that has, for a variety of reasons, been overlooked by students of individual and collective behavior. It is a pervasive and all too destructive influence in the behavior of individuals, groups, organizations, and nations.\"\n\nThough it is a subjective emotion, humiliation has a universal aspect which applies to all human beings: \"it is the feeling of being put down, made to feel less than one feels oneself to be.\"\n\nA society that suffers from humiliation is an unstable one. The cognitive dissonance between the way in which the society is perceived and the way in which it sees itself can be so great that violence can result on a massive scale against people belonging to an out group. According to Jonathan Sacks, \"By turning the question 'What did we do wrong?' into 'Who did this to us?', [hate against an out group] restores some measure of self-respect and provides a course of action. In psychiatry, the clinical terms for this process are splitting and projection; it allows people to define themselves as victims.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38791055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38791055", "title": "Jana Baha Dyah Jatra", "text": "Jana Baha Dyah Jatra\n\nJana Bahā Dyaḥ Jātrā (Devanagari: जनबहा द्यः जात्रा, alternate names: श्वेत मत्स्येन्द्रनाथ / मच्छिन्द्रनाथ जात्रा, सेतो मत्स्येन्द्रनाथ / मच्छिन्द्रनाथ जात्रा, अमोघपाश अवलोकितेश्वर जात्रा, जनबहाः करुणामय जात्रा) is the chariot procession of Jana Baha Dyah, the Bodhisattva of compassion, which is held annually in Kathmandu. It begins on the 8th day and ends on the 10th day of the bright fortnight of Chaulā (चौला), the sixth month in the lunar Nepal Era calendar.\n\nThe Buddhist deity is known in Sanskrit as Aryavalokitesvara (Sacred Avalokiteśvara), and also White Machhendranath or White Karunamaya. It is believed that the annual procession was begun to provide the townspeople who were unable to visit his temple a sight of the image.\n\nDuring the festival, the image of Jana Bāhā Dyah is removed from his temple at Jana Baha and carried in a portable shrine to Durbar Marg from where the actual procession starts. There it is installed in the car built in the shape of a tower on wheels. The chariot is 35 ft high.\n\nWhen the image is placed on the chariot, a group of musicians from the Kansakar caste play a short fanfare on their long trumpets to announce the installation. At the same time, the Guruju Paltan, a ceremonial guard of honor consisting of soldiers dressed in ancient uniforms, performs a feu de joie with their muskets. Crowds then pull the chariot through central Kathmandu accompanied by musical bands.\n\nThe journey is performed in three stages to permit devotees to make oblations. Worshippers bring trays of offerings and light rows of butter lamps to honor the deity wherever the chariot stops. Sweet marjoram flowers (मूस्वां) are special offerings on the occasion.\n\nOn the first day, the chariot is pulled from Jamal, Durbar Marg through Bhotahiti to Asan where it makes an overnight halt. The next day, the chariot is pulled through Indra Chok to Kathmandu Durbar Square where it makes its second stop. On the third day, the chariot is pulled through Maru and Chikan Mugal to Lagan at the southern end of the historic section of Kathmandu.\n\nThere the procession ends after the chariot makes three rounds of the temple housing the mother of Janabaha Dyo. The idol is then carried back to the temple at Jana Baha, and the chariot is disassembled and the parts stored for next year.\n\nThe three-day parade is one of the two great chariot festivals in Kathmandu, the other being Kumari Jatra during Yenya. The date of the chariot procession of Jana Baha Dyah is changeable as it is celebrated according to the lunar calendar. \n\nSimilar chariot processions known as Bunga Dyah Jatra are celebrated in Lalitpur and Dolakha in April-May.\n\nThere is a tradition that the image of Jana Baha Dyah housed in the temple at Jana Baha, Kel Tol was retrieved from Jamal, hence the chariot procession starts from here. No one knows how far back the origin of the festival goes, though it is believed to have been started in the sixth century. Chronicles show that it was already well established in the 17th century.\n"}
{"id": "17562270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17562270", "title": "Kielder Forest Star Camp", "text": "Kielder Forest Star Camp\n\nThis is an annual star party held each autumn and spring in Kielder Forest. The five night event is based on the Kielder Campsite. Free talks on astronomy are held at nearby Kielder Castle on the Saturday. The event started in October 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "54286359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54286359", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Igor Dodon", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Igor Dodon\n\nThis is a list of international presidential trips made by Igor Dodon, the current President of Moldova.\n\nSince he took office in December 2016 he has made:\n\n"}
{"id": "22492576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22492576", "title": "List of jam band music festivals", "text": "List of jam band music festivals\n\nThis is a list of jam band music festivals. This list may have some overlap with list of historic rock festivals and list of reggae festivals. Jam bands are musical groups who relate to a unique fan culture that began in the 1960s with Grateful Dead (see deadheads), and continued with The Allman Brothers Band, which had lengthy jams at concerts. The performances of these bands typically feature extended musical improvisation (\"jams\") over rhythmic grooves and chord patterns, and long sets of music that can often cross genre boundaries.\n\nWhile the seminal group Grateful Dead are categorized as psychedelic rock, by the 1990s the term \"jam band\" was being used for groups playing a variety of rock-related genres, and jam band festival lineups could include blues, country music, folk music, and funk. Today the term even includes some groups completely outside rock, such as those playing world music, electronic music, progressive bluegrass, and jazz fusion. A unique feature of the jam band scene is bands allowing fan taping or digital recording of live concerts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1358723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358723", "title": "Lucaria", "text": "Lucaria\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the Lucaria was a festival of the grove (Latin \"lucus\") held July 19 and 21. The original meaning of the ritual was obscure by the time of Varro (mid-1st century BC), who omits it in his list of festivals. The deity for whom it was celebrated is unknown; if a ritual for grove-clearing recorded by Cato pertains to this festival, the invocation was deliberately anonymous \"(Si deus, si dea)\". The dates of the Lucaria are recorded in the \"Fasti Amiterni\", a calendar dating from the reign of Tiberius found at Amiternum (now S. Vittorino) in Sabine territory.\n\nThe Augustan grammarian Verrius Flaccus connected the Lucaria to the disastrous defeat of the Romans by the Gauls at the Battle of the Allia, which was fought on July 18. The festival, he says, was celebrated in the large grove between the Via Salaria and the Tiber river, where the Romans who survived the battle had hidden. The Via Salaria crossed the battlefield about 10 miles north of Rome. The \"lucus\" thus would have been located on the Pincian Hill, which was later cultivated as gardens and leisure parks by Lucullus, Pompeius, Sallust and others. This explanatory story has been compared to that of the Poplifugia, which also involved the Gallic sack of Rome. The story may be more aetiological than historical. The Lucaria suggests that grove veneration was a practice which the early Romans had in common with the Gauls.\n\nLike other \"fixed holidays\" (\"dies nefasti publici\") on the Roman calendar, the Lucaria took place on days of uneven number, with an intervening day that was \"non-festive\". A mention by Macrobius seems to imply that the festival began at night and continued the following day. Georg Wissowa thought that it may have been connected to the Neptunalia on July 23, when leafy huts, called umbrae, were built as shelters to protect against the hot summer sun and bulls were sacrificed. Neptune embodied fresh as well as salt water among the Romans, and the collocation of festivals in July, including also the Furrinalia on the 25th, may express concerns for drought.\n"}
{"id": "18158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18158", "title": "Lupercalia", "text": "Lupercalia\n\nLupercalia was a very ancient, possibly pre-Roman pastoral annual festival, observed in the city of Rome on February 15, to avert evil spirits and purify the city, releasing health and fertility. Lupercalia was also called \"dies Februatus\", purified (literally \"februated day\") after the instruments of purification called \"februa\", which give the month of February \"(Februarius)\" its name.\n\nThe festival was later known as Februa (\"Purifications\" or \"Purgings\") after the ' which was used on the day. It was also known as ' and gave its name to Juno Februalis, Februlis, or Februata in her role as its patron deity; to a god called Februus, and to February ('), the month during which it occurred. Ovid connects ' to an Etruscan word for \"purging\". Some sources connect the Latin word for fever (\"\") with the same idea of purification or purging, due to the sweating commonly seen in association with fevers.\n\nThe name \"Lupercalia\" was believed in antiquity to evince some connection with the Ancient Greek festival of the Arcadian Lykaia, a wolf festival (, \"lýkos\"; ), and the worship of \"Lycaean Pan\", assumed to be a Greek equivalent to Faunus, as instituted by Evander. Justin describes a cult image of \"the Lycaean god, whom the Greeks call Pan and the Romans Lupercus,\" as nude, save for a goatskin girdle. It stood in the Lupercal, the cave where tradition held that Romulus and Remus were suckled by the she-wolf (Lupa). The cave lay at the foot of the Palatine Hill, on which Romulus was thought to have founded Rome.\n\nThe rites were confined to the Lupercal cave, the Palatine Hill, and the Forum, all of which were central locations in Rome's foundation myth Near the cave stood a sanctuary of Rumina, goddess of breastfeeding; and the wild fig-tree (Ficus Ruminalis) to which Romulus and Remus were brought by the divine intervention of the river-god Tiberinus; some Roman sources name the wild fig tree \"caprificus\", literally \"goat fig\". Like the cultivated fig, its fruit is pendulous, and the tree exudes a milky sap if cut, which makes it a good candidate for a cult of breastfeeding.\n\nThe Lupercalia had its own priesthood, the \"Luperci\" (\"brothers of the wolf\"), whose institution and rites were attributed either to the Arcadian culture-hero Evander, or to Romulus and Remus, erstwhile shepherds who had each established a group of followers. The \"Luperci\" were young men (\"iuvenes\"), usually between the ages of 20 and 40. They formed two religious \"collegia\" (associations) based on ancestry; the \"Quinctiliani\" (named after gens Quinctia) and the \"Fabiani\" (named after \"gens\" Fabia). Each college was headed by a \"magister\". In 44 BC, a third college, the \"Juliani\", was instituted in honor of Julius Caesar; its first \"magister\" was Mark Antony. The college of \"Juliiani\" disbanded or lapsed during Caesar's civil wars, and was not re-established in the reforms of his successor, Augustus. In the Imperial era, membership of the two traditional \"collegia\" was opened to \"iuvenes\" of equestrian status.\n\nAt the Lupercal altar, a male goat (or goats) and a dog were sacrificed by one or another of the \"Luperci\", under the supervision of the Flamen dialis, Jupiter's chief priest. An offering was also made of salted mealcakes, prepared by the Vestal Virgins. After the blood sacrifice, two \"Luperci\" approached the altar. Their foreheads were anointed with blood from the sacrificial knife, then wiped clean with wool soaked in milk, after which they were expected to smile and/or laugh.\n\nThe sacrificial feast followed, after which the Luperci cut thongs (known as \"\") from the flayed skin of the victim, and ran with these, naked or near-naked, along the old Palatine boundary, in an anticlockwise direction around the hill. In Plutarch's description of the Lupercalia, written during the early Empire,\n...many of the noble youths and of the magistrates run up and down through the city naked, for sport and laughter striking those they meet with shaggy thongs. And many women of rank also purposely get in their way, and like children at school present their hands to be struck, believing that the pregnant will thus be helped in delivery, and the barren to pregnancy.\nThe \"Luperci\" completed their circuit of the Palatine, then returned to the \"Lupercal\" cave. \nThe Februa was ancient and possibly Sabine. After the month of February was added to the Roman calendar, Februa occurred on its fifteenth day (\"\"). Of its various rituals, the most important came to be those of the Lupercalia. The Romans themselves attributed the instigation of the Lupercalia to Evander, a culture hero from Arcadia who was credited with bringing the Olympic pantheon, Greek laws and alphabet to Italy, where he founded the city of Pallantium on the future site of Rome, 60 years before the Trojan War.\n\nLupercalia was celebrated in parts of Italy and Gaul; \"Luperci\" are attested by inscriptions at Velitrae, Praeneste, Nemausus (modern Nîmes) and elsewhere. The ancient cult of the Hirpi Sorani (\"wolves of Soranus\", from Sabine hirpus \"wolf\"), who practiced at Mt. Soracte, north of Rome, had elements in common with the Roman Lupercalia.\n\nDescriptions of the Lupercalia festival of 44 BC attest to its continuity; Julius Caesar used it as the backdrop for his staged public refusal of a golden crown (i.e. a diadem), offered to him by Mark Antony. The Lupercal cave was restored or rebuilt by Augustus, and has been speculated as identical with a grotto discovered in 2007, below the remains of Augustus' residence; according to scholarly consensus, the grotto is a nymphaeum, not the Lupercal. The Lupercalia festival is marked on a calendar of 354 alongside traditional and Christian festivals. Despite the banning in 391 of all non-Christian cults and festivals, Lupercalia was celebrated by the nominally Christian populace on a regular basis, into the reign of the emperor Anastasius. Pope Gelasius I (494–96), claimed that only the \"vile rabble\" were involved in the festival, and sought its forceful abolition; the senate protested that the Lupercalia was essential to Rome's safety and well-being. This prompted Gelasius' scornful suggestion that \"If you assert that this rite has salutary force, celebrate it yourselves in the ancestral fashion; run nude yourselves that you may properly carry out the mockery.\" \n\nThere is no contemporary evidence to support the popular notions that Gelasius abolished the Lupercalia, or that he, or any other prelate, replaced it with the Feast of the Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary. A literary association between Lupercalia and the romantic elements of Saint Valentine's Day dates back to Chaucer, and poetic traditions of courtly love.\n\nHorace's Ode III, 18 alludes to the Lupercalia. The festival or its associated rituals gave its name to the Roman month of February (\"\") and thence to the modern month. The Roman god Februus personified both the month and purification, but seems to postdate both.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare's play \"Julius Caesar\" begins during the Lupercalia. Mark Antony is instructed by Caesar to strike his wife Calpurnia, in the hope that she will be able to conceive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2255304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2255304", "title": "Lyceum Theatre (Sheffield)", "text": "Lyceum Theatre (Sheffield)\n\nThe Lyceum is a 1068-seat theatre in the City of Sheffield, England.\n\nThere has been a theatre on the site since 1879 when the Grand Varieties Theatre was built. Made of wood and originally intended to be used as a circus, the theatre was managed by the parents of the music hall comedian Dan Leno in 1883, who regularly performed there in the early stages of his career. Leno's lease came to an end in 1884 and the theatre burnt down in 1893. This was replaced by City Theatre but this was demolished six years later to make way for what is now the Lyceum.\n\nBuilt to a traditional proscenium arch design, the Lyceum is the only surviving theatre outside London designed by the theatre architect W.G.R. Sprague and the last example of an Edwardian auditorium in Sheffield. The statue on top of the Lyceum Theatre is Mercury, son of Zeus and Maia.\n\nBy the late 1950s, the Lyceum was experiencing financial difficulties and by 1966 bingo callers were keeping the rumoured threat of demolition at bay. The theatre closed in 1969 and, despite being granted Grade II listed status in 1972, planning permission was sought for its demolition in 1975. The building was saved in part due to campaigning by the Hallamshire Historic Buildings Society.\n\nOver the years the building changed ownership many times, being used variously as a bingo hall and a rock concert venue. By the 1980s, the interior was in a state of disrepair. The theatre was bought by two Sheffield businessmen in 1985, with financial support from Sheffield City Council, and it was reclassified to Grade II* listed status. Between 1988 and 1990 the Lyceum was completely restored at a cost of £12 million.\n\nThe theatre reopened in 1990 and now serves as a venue for touring West End productions, as well as locally produced shows. It is part of the Sheffield Theatres complex with the neighbouring Crucible Theatre and the Crucible Studio.\n\nThe Lyceum presents one of Sheffield's annual Christmas pantomimes. For many years the pantomime attracted prominent actors and variety turns and visiting producers in the months between Christmas Eve and Easter. In the 1940s, the Lyceum began to produce its own pantomime and was soon bringing in stars of radio such as Morecambe and Wise, Harry Secombe and Frankie Howerd.\n\nHowever, closure of the Lyceum meant that after the final pantomime performance in March 1969, Sheffield's pantomimes took place in the neighbouring Crucible. The pantomime returned to the Lyceum in 1990s, as touring production companies were now using the venue.\n\nIn 2007, Sheffield Theatres replaced the touring companies by starting co-production with Evolution Pantomimes. Their first show \"Cinderella\" was followed by \"Aladdin\" in 2008 and \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46290223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46290223", "title": "Murder of Elaine O'Hara", "text": "Murder of Elaine O'Hara\n\nElaine O'Hara (17 March 1976 – c. 22 August 2012), was an Irish childcare worker, and was last seen alive at a public park in Shanganagh, Dublin on 22 August 2012. The remains of her body were discovered on Killakee Mountain, south of Dublin, in September 2013. The investigation of her disappearance, and later of her death, was widely reported. The 2015 trial and conviction of her murderer, architect Graham Dwyer, led to the circulation of evidence concerning O'Hara's and Dwyer's involvement in the BDSM sexual subculture. The evidence of Dwyer's sadistic sexual practices led to the murder being called one of the most shocking crimes in Irish history.\n\nElaine O'Hara was born in Dublin on 17 March 1976 and was educated in St. Joseph of Cluny secondary school. She had been bullied at school. She had suffered many mental health issues from her teens, and regularly was hospitalised for psychiatric care. She had been treated by Professor Anthony Clare, who diagnosed depression and borderline personality disorder. She also suffered from asthma, diabetes and was dyslexic. Her mother's death in 2002 was a major setback for her, as was the sudden death of Professor Clare in 2007.\n\nIn 2005 she moved out of her family home in Killiney to a flat in Blackrock. In 2008 she moved to another flat in Blackrock, before taking advantage of the affordable housing scheme to acquire an apartment in Belarmine Plaza, Stepaside. O'Hara worked as a childcare assistant in Ballybrack and part-time in a newsagents in Blackrock. She was taking night classes in the town of Dún Laoghaire with the hopes of becoming a Montessori teacher.\n\nO'Hara went missing from her home on August 22, 2012, and it was initially assumed she had disappeared while volunteering at the 2012 Tall Ships' Races. Inside her house, however, she had left her bag, purse, and mobile phone, and security footage showed her leaving her home with a different phone. She was last seen by a jogger in Shanaganagh Park in the county of Dún Laoghaire–Rathdown just to the south of Shankill. It was later determined that she had gone to Shanganagh Cemetery, where her mother was buried. A woman was heard crying loudly in the graveyard by a witness. The witness saw the woman, fitting O'Hara's general description, crying beside an old grave, but could not positively identify her as O'Hara. Her car was later found nearby, and it was assumed she had, given her psychological history, committed suicide by jumping off the nearby cliffs.\n\nOn 10 September 2013, three days before the eventual discovery of O'Hara's body, anglers William Fegan, his brother, and another man spotted a bag lying in the water in Vartry Reservoir, near Roundwood, Co. Wicklow. Normally, the depth of water at the bridge where evidence was found was to , but in 2013, following a long hot period, it was as shallow as to , exposing the items which would have otherwise been underwater. Inside the bag they found handcuffs, clothing, a ball gag, restraints, and leg restraints.\n\nThe following day, Fegan handed the items he had found in to Roundwood Garda station. Garda James O'Donoghue went to where the items were found on several occasions and on 16 September found handcuffs, keys, a leather mask, a knife, an inhaler and a chain with a ring on it. A Dunnes Stores loyalty card found attached to the keyring was identified as belonging to O'Hara. The Garda Water Unit searched the lake on 17 September and 7 October 2013, finding two Nokia mobile phones, two mobile phone batteries, a pair of glasses and sunglasses, as well as a rucksack. A number on the frame of the glasses and the prescription matched the records for O'Hara in a branch of Specsavers in Dún Laoghaire.\n\nDog trainer Magali Vergnet regularly walked dogs on wooded land near Kilakee in the foothills of the Dublin Mountains. Starting on August 21, 2013, one of her dogs would regularly disappear and return with some bones during their walk, which Vergnet first believed were from an animal. On 13 September 2013, the same dog again retrieved more bones, this time accompanied by clothing. Concerned that these may be human, she contacted the landowner, Frank Doyle. They returned to the land with another man and within an isolated clearing, they found scattered and gnawed bones, including the remains of a rib-cage and jawbone. Realising the remains were human, they contacted the Gardai. Only 65 percent of her skeleton was recovered, and O'Hara's body was later identified through dental records.\n\nPolice discovered that in late 2007, O'Hara had visited fetish adult sex website Alt.com under the profile name \"helpmelearn36/F\" and viewed the profile of \"architect72\", which was linked to a Gmail address named \"fetishboy\". Police linked these to Graham Dwyer, an architect. Evidence emerged that Dwyer and O'Hara had embarked on a sexual relationship that involved bondage, violence and knives. The relationship was very intense throughout 2008. Violent homemade sex videos and fragments of emails were retrieved from their laptops.\n\nTheir relationship dwindled, but was rekindled in March 2011 when Dwyer contacted O'Hara through a prepaid mobile phone. Dwyer had a mobile phone number which began with 083, and both he and O'Hara had mobile phones with numbers that began 086. Recovered texts, from the discarded but still operational Nokia phones, sent by Dwyer (under the name \"Master\") to O'Hara (as \"Slave\") during this period included:\n\nDwyer did not have a history of criminality. His background suggested \"nothing of note\". Born on September 13, 1972 in Bandon, Co. Cork to Sean and Susan Dwyer, he has three siblings, Mandy, Brendan and James. After completing secondary school, he moved to Dublin in the early 1990s. He studied architecture at DIT Bolton Street, where he began a relationship with Donegal woman Emer McShea. McShea soon became pregnant with a son. However, McShea later testified in court that he once confided to her that he fantasised about stabbing a woman during sex, and he started to bring a kitchen knife in to their bedroom, pretending to stab her. McShea and Dwyer finished their relationship in 1996 and a year later he began dating fellow architecture student Gemma Healy. They wed in Sligo Cathedral in 2002 and five years later they moved to Kerrymount Close, Foxrock. Dwyer's architecture career took off and he started work for A&D Wejchert & Partners Architects on Lower Baggot Street on July 2, 2001.\n\nHe was named a director in June 2006 and was involved in a range of major developments at home, including Carlow Institute of Technology, Leopardstown racecourse, and in Poland. His hobbies included flying radio-controlled aircraft and driving luxury cars, while his wife Gemma enjoyed sailing. However, according to information disclosed during Garda interviews, Dwyer's finances were in difficulty at the time of the murder: \"I was deeply in debt. We had good prospects in 2007. We had a cottage in Rathmines, bought the house in Foxrock to renovate. Then the crash happened. Gemma lost her job and I had huge pay cuts\", he had said. His trial had heard directors at the firm had suffered a 50% pay cut since 2009, including a 21% cut in the first six months of 2011, cutting his wages to €70,000.\n\nEvidence from O'Hara's phone and laptop led to warrants to search Dwyer's house, where further evidence was discovered. He was arrested, and initially denied knowing O'Hara (which was refuted by security footage at O'Hara's home, and the presence of semen in her bed), and later denied murdering O'Hara. The trial opened on 22 January 2015. At the trial, the violent homemade sex videos and retrieved fragments of emails provided evidence of the sexual use of bondage, violence and knives. Numerous messages from O'Hara referred to Dwyer's repeated threats to stab and kill her.\n\nDwyer's defence council Remy Farrell argued that there was no evidence tying Dwyer to O'Hara's death. O'Hara had a history of depression and her cause of death had never been determined by pathologists. She had recently been released from a psychiatric hospital which she had entered after having suicidal thoughts. There was “not a screed of evidence in respect of the cause of death”, or even evidence that it was murder. According to Farrell, both the police and her own family had first believed that she most probably committed suicide. O'Hara's interest in the BDSM lifestyle had been known to the police since before the discovery of her body, and there were many circumstances that could have led to her death. Farrell said that the violent language used by Dwyer in his texts was proof of nothing more than his sexual fantasies.\n\nSeán Guerin SC, prosecuting, said that the accumulated evidence pointed to a detailed plan by Dwyer to commit and get away with murder. Dwyer had used O'Hara's low self-esteem to manipulate her. His desire to kill a woman was well-documented in his texts. O'Hara was not a willing participant in sexual violence; she repeatedly expressed her wish “not to be stabbed” and “not to be beaten” by him. She only wanted \"companionship, love and ultimately a child\". Knowing she had recently been released from psychiatric hospital, Dwyer had lured her to the cemetery intending to take her to the mountains and kill her, expecting that if her body was discovered, her death would be deemed to have been suicide. But the attempt to conceal his relationship to her by hiding the mobile phones and O'Hara's personal effects was clear evidence of intent.\n\nOn 27 March 2015 Dwyer was convicted in a unanimous verdict. Sentencing him to life imprisonment, the judge stated that he \"110% agreed\" with jury's decision. The jury was exempted from jury duty for 30 years.\n\nDuring and after the trial, Dwyer's legal team highlighted that the legislation covering the capture and use of the mobile phone data (relied upon by the prosecution in the trial) was invalid. Specifically, Dwyer's legal team have claimed grounds for appeal on the basis that Ireland's Communications (Retention of Data) Act 2011, in turn giving effect to the European Data Retention Directive (2006/24/EC), was invalid - because the underlying European Directive had been struck down by the European Court of Justice in 2014. These claims contributed to a review of how state agencies use the type of data covered by the legislation. And, if upheld, it has been reported that the appeal could impact the admissibility of the mobile phone evidence in the Dwyer case - and other cases which rely upon mobile phone data in Garda investigations.\n\n"}
{"id": "25546115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25546115", "title": "North European Zone Formula 3 Cup", "text": "North European Zone Formula 3 Cup\n\nThe North European Zone Formula 3 Cup, also known as the NEZ Formula 3 Cup, is an open wheel racing series based in Northern Europe. The series ran from 2008 to 2009. The NEZ member counties are Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Russia and Sweden.\n\nIn each two race of the weekend, points are awarded to the top twelve finishers, with 25 points for a win. A bonus point is awarded for the fastest qualifying time and for the fastest lap of each race. The same scoring system is used in all FIA NEZ racing championships and cups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1861658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861658", "title": "Operation United Shield", "text": "Operation United Shield\n\nOperation United Shield was the codename of a military operation, conducted 9 January to 3 March 1995, bringing a conclusion to the United Nations Operation in Somalia II (UNOSOM II). Commanded by the United States, two ships of the Pakistan Navy, two ships of the Italian Navy and six ships of the United States Navy formed a Combined Task Force (CTF) ensuring the safe evacuation of all UN Peacekeeping Forces from Somalia.\n\n\nThe political situation in Somalia deteriorated throughout 1993 and 1994, until it was determined that UN peacekeeping forces were in unacceptable jeopardy. On 10 January 1995 the United States Central Command announced that 4,000 personnel (including 2,600 U.S. Marines) would be deployed to Somalia to assist with Operation United Shield. At that time, the UNOSOM II peacekeeping force remaining in Somalia was a combined force of approximately 2,500 troops, from Pakistan and Bangladesh. The United Nations Security Council established 31 March 1995 as the deadline for the departure of all its forces participating in U.N. operations in Somalia.\n\nLtGen Anthony Zinni (Commanding General, I Marine Expeditionary Force) was given command of the operation, which was to ensure the safe execution of an amphibious withdrawal. General Zinni, who served as Director for Operations for UNITAF during Operation Restore Hope in 1992-1993, knew most of the top Somali leaders at the time of Operation United Shield.\n\nThe commanders utilized a 4,000 man air-ground task force to cover the withdrawal and prevent further casualties, while a seaborne coalition of American, Italian, Pakistani, French, British, and Malaysian naval vessels waited just off the coast of Mogadishu to accept the withdrawing forces.\n\n\nBy the time the Landing Force went ashore, the UNOSOM forces had consolidated and withdrawn to New Port and Mogadishu International Airport.\n\nThe most critical stage of Operation United Shield began when the ground combat element (GCE) of the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) conducted an amphibious landing on \"green beach,\" near Mogadishu International Airport. The infantry element, Kilo Company of the 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines, (31st MEUSOC) and Battalion Landing Team 3/1, conducted their initial landing in the early morning hours of 1 March 1995, and within hours the bulk of the infantry battalion had passed through the United Nation’s perimeter and secured the New Port shipping facility and an area known as \"No Man's Land\", between the New Port and the UN-occupied Mogadishu International Airport, north of green beach.\n\nTwo US Navy CH-53E Super Stallion Helicopters from Helicopter Combat Support Squadron Four played a vital role in placing troops in key areas throughout Mogadishu and then picking up members of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force and flying them out to the US Ships off shore.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21322084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322084", "title": "Poor Ellen Smith", "text": "Poor Ellen Smith\n\nPoor Ellen Smith is a late 19th-century murder ballad recounting the shooting death of one Ellen Smith, and the trial and execution of her murderer.\n\nThe song is based on real events in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. In 1894, a ne'er-do-well named Peter DeGraff had a love affair with Ellen Smith, who may have been mentally challenged and was unable to understand his rejection of her. Smith became pregnant by DeGraff, but their child died at birth. Afterwards she began following DeGraff around town, and eventually he sent her a note that asked her to meet him in a secluded area, worded in such a way that Smith would have believed DeGraff wanted to reconcile. Instead, when she arrived, DeGraff shot her through the chest. He later reported that Smith's only words after being shot were \"Lord have mercy on me.\" DeGraff confessed to the crime on the gallows, shortly before he was hanged.\n\nThe song and its variants have been performed and recorded by a range of artists including Tommy Jarrell, Neko Case, Laura Cantrell, Molly O'Day, Kristin Hersh, Wilma Lee & Stoney Cooper, Jimmy Martin, the Stanley Brothers, Ralph Stanley & Larry Sparks, the Kossoy Sisters, Country Gentlemen, John Hartford, The Kingston Trio, Crooked Still, Robert Earl Keen and Wussy.\nThe plot was also adapted by German Folk-Metal band Subway to Sally in their song \"Arme Ellen Schmitt\".\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "42658529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42658529", "title": "Prizren incident (1999)", "text": "Prizren incident (1999)\n\nThe Prizren Incident was a confrontation between German Kosovo Force (KFOR) troops advancing into Kosovo and stragglers from the withdrawing Yugoslav Army. The shootout took place in the city of Prizren, on 13 June 1999. The German troops killed one armed Serb, and left another seriously wounded. A German soldier was injured, and there were reports of a woman wounded by Serb snipers.\n\nOn 12 June 1999, two days after the approval of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, Kosovo Force (KFOR) personnel began to arrive in Kosovo to stop further hostilities between ethnic Albanians and Serbs and to coordinate efforts to secure the distribution of humanitarian aid.\n\nIn the early hours of 13 June about 100 German soldiers arrived in Prizren from Macedonia to secure the city for another 600 incoming troop that entered at afternoon from Albania, to the west. Earlier, a Yugoslav Army outpost at Vrbnica border crossing, recently vacated by 60 soldiers, was looted and vandalized. The German soldiers were received as liberators by the ethnic Albanian inhabitants. One of their first tasks was to separate a crowd of Albanian civilians and Yugoslav troops by forming a human line, after the former pelted a convoy of civilian Serbs leaving the city. There was a tense standoff, but eventually a German officer managed to convince the Serbs to withdraw. At the Morinë border cross, German troops compelled the Serbs to leave the outpost according to schedule when the latter tried to win more time.\n\nAs the German troops drove into downtown, along the Bistrica river, they were met by sniper fire from one of the surrounding hills and some houses; they were also allegedly fired at from a Roman Catholic church. The soldiers took cover and returned fire. A civilian woman was reportedly wounded by the snipers, while the German troops moved to defensive positions below the hill. A German fighting vehicle fired a warning burst with a general-purpose Rheinmetall MG 3 machine gun at a passing Yugoslav army truck after a Yugoslav soldier inside branded an AK-47 assault rifle at a jeering Albanian crowd and fired two shots in the air.\n\nAt dusk, a yellow Zastava Skala civilian-type vehicle was seen approaching a German armored carrier outside Hotel Theranda, in the center of the city. The passenger produced an AK-47 and opened fire at the carrier and at bystanders, who fled for safety. The German soldiers in the armored vehicle, supported by a Leopard 2 tank, shot back. Three paratroopers fired at the car with their Heckler & Koch G36 assault rifles, joined by a non-commissioned officer with his 9mm pistol and by turret-mounted 7.62mm machine guns. The combined gunfire killed the driver and wounded the shooter. A German soldier in the armored carrier was injured in the arm, becoming the first casualty of the overall peacekeeping operation. The German firepower was so intense that it pushed the car backward. Some sources claim that the passenger also died of his wounds. The shooting lasted 20 minutes. The Germans said that the two individuals in the car, both Serbs, were carrying grenades and semi-automatic weapons.\n\nThe commander of the KFOR brigade in Prizren, General Fritz von Korff said: \"Although we may not have everything under control at present, we have enough presence in the town to believe there will be a safe (Yugoslav) withdrawal.\" He also warned that Prizren was still a \"dangerous place\".\n\nArmed Serb civilians set an improvised checkpoint outside the town, but it was largely ignored by the Germans, who passed through it several times. The retreating Yugoslav army personnel also manned a number of checkpoints, in violation of the agreement reached with NATO. More than ten days into the arrival of KFOR troops, turmoil and killings among the civilian population continued to spread, to the point that the German commander imposed a curfew from midnight until 5 a.m.\n\n"}
{"id": "11188777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11188777", "title": "Random checkpoint", "text": "Random checkpoint\n\nA random checkpoint is a military and police tactic. In a military context, checkpoints involve the setup of a hasty roadblock by mobile truck- or armored vehicle-mounted infantry to disrupt unauthorized or unwanted movement or military activity and to check for valid identification and search for contraband, fugitives, or weapons that are not permitted in civilian hands. Random checkpoints are set up to achieve surprise, as opposed to known permanently located checkpoints, which suspects could circumvent. They are often established in locations where they cannot be observed by approaching traffic until it is too late to withdraw and escape without being observed.\n\nPatrol car-equipped police units regularly use random checkpoints to detect drivers who are suspected of impaired driving. Police also use hastily set up roadblocks to check cars and car trunks when they are pursuing an armed and dangerous fugitive. As with military checkpoints, sobriety checkpoints and fugitive roadblock searches are located in an area where drivers cannot see the checkpoint until it is too late to withdraw, and checkpoints are only set up on a temporary basis.\n\nThe unit establishing a military checkpoint must carry or obtain the materials necessary to construct it. It might use a large vehicle, or multiple vehicles, such as armored personnel carriers to block the road. In addition to blocking the road with vehicles, the road may also be partially blocked with concertina wire or heavy objects, such as sandbags or concrete blocks. The vehicles might be positioned to partially or entirely block the road or route. The search area might be the space between multiple vehicles. Sentries might be positioned at each end of the checkpoint and are covered by mounted or dismounted machine gun positions. A reaction force may be designated and concealed nearby.\n\nVehicular and pedestrian traffic that approach with the intent of passing flying checkpoints can be asked to produce identification and submit to a search of their persons or vehicle. The trunks of cars are typically searched. In some countries, soldiers inspect the bottom of the car with a mirror to look for bombs. In some cases, people without proper identification or who arouse suspicion may be refused passage, detained, or arrested. Contraband may be confiscated.\nA random checkpoint must be functional within 15 minutes of the unit's arrival on-site, and establish security teams 50–100 meters on both sides of the area to be controlled. Advanced observation posts may also be positioned further out if desired. When large geographical areas need to be monitored, some types of checkpoint may be quickly airlifted by helicopter from one location to another.\n\nFlying roadblocks and checkpoints are usually established for no more than a few hours, in order to decrease the possibility of insurgent attacks on them, as well as to maintain their effectiveness as a surprising, unexpected obstacle.\n\nRandom checkpoints are a common tactic used by many military forces, and have been recently used by UN forces in Kosovo, the Israeli army in the West Bank and US forces in Iraqi Kurdistan, and Iraq in search of insurgents, fugitives, and other law breakers. In some war zones, soldiers working at these checkpoints can be severely injured or killed if one of the vehicles they are searching contains a suicide bomber who detonates his or her bomb or if one of the occupants fires upon soldiers.\n\nSobriety checkpoints or roadblocks involve law enforcement officials stopping every vehicle (or more typically, every \"n\"th vehicle) on a public roadway and investigating the possibility that the driver might be too impaired to drive due to alcohol or drug consumption. They are often set up late at night or in the very early morning hours and on weekends, and on holidays associated with parties (e.g., New Year's Eve) at which time the proportion of impaired drivers tends to be the highest. Checkpoints are also often set near the exit points of public events where people have been drinking to prevent large numbers of drunk drivers from being released into traffic simultaneously from the event. A roadblock stop is quick action spot for police as well as security personnel.\n\nWith a portable and quick Breathalyzer test, the police can test all drivers (if the law permits) for their breath alcohol content (BrAC), and process the cars one by one as if in a conveyor belt. If a police force does not have these testing devices, a more complicated routine is necessary. Upon suspicion that the driver has consumed alcohol, due to the officer noting the smell of alcohol, slurred speech, or other signs, the stopped driver is required to exit the vehicle and asked to take a series of roadside field sobriety tests (FSTs or SFSTs). These tests help the officer to determine whether the person's physical and/or mental skills are impaired. If the officer determines based on his/her observations during the tests that the driver is impaired and has probable cause to arrest the person for suspicion of driving under the influence, the arrestee will be asked to take an alcohol breath test or a blood test. It is important to note that the driver cannot \"pass\" or \"fail\" a field sobriety test as they are not \"pass-or-fail\", they are only meant to aid the officer in determining if a suspect is impaired based on observations of the subject's performance on these tests. There are various guidelines are presented by the various states (US) as well as International rules for these type Sobriety Checkpoints or DUI. For example, in the U.S. Field sobriety tests (FSTs or SFSTs) are voluntary. \n\nWhile the Fourth Amendment (1791) protects people against unreasonable searches and seizures of either self or property by government officials, the use by police of sobriety checkpoints in the US is not prohibited by the Fourth Amendment if law enforcement posts or announces in advance that these checkpoints will occur and at what location. Law enforcement agencies often post a sign during the weekdays when it is only seen by local residents and not by those attending a special event or those that only travel in that area of the city during the weekend to patronize local bars and clubs. These announcements are also sometimes printed in newspapers. Numerous websites host a database of checkpoints that are to occur based on information found in newspapers, the Internet and tips from visitors of such sites. In the 2010s, there are smartphone apps that allow users to report sobriety checkpoints, show them on a map and use the device's GPS to alert other drivers when a sobriety checkpoint is nearby.\n\nA popular method of catching drivers who are unfit to drive due to drugs or alcohol is to watch for people turning around as they notice the checkpoint and quickly pull them over.\n\nSobriety checkpoints regularly catch much more than just drunk drivers, as those selected to participate in the checkpoint are asked to provide their driver's licenses. As part of the standard protocol, the person's name and identifying information is run through the National Crime Index database, or NCIC, for wants and warrants. If the driver has an outstanding warrant, he/she will likely be arrested. If he/she was driving without a valid license, he/she will likely be cited for driving with a suspended or revoked license. The identity checks could also catch vehicle inspection and registration violations as well. When an individual is stopped for a sobriety check, the officer may also determine that she has probable cause to search the vehicle, which may lead to the officer finding illegal drugs or weapons.\n\nIn Australia, drivers may be stopped at any point along any public road by a police officer for what police term a \"random breath test\", commonly referred to as an \"RBT\". For an operation involving a large number of police (typically 10–20) at a fixed location, the colloquial term \"booze bus\" is often used. \n\nIn July 1976, legislation allowing Random Breath Testing (RBT) came into force in the State of Victoria, with \nthis being the first State in Australia to introduce such. New South Wales began its own large RBT road safety campaign in 1982. Since then, fatal crashes involving alcohol have dropped from about 40 per cent of all fatalities to the 2012 level of 15 per cent. Police conduct about 5 million breath tests each year in NSW with every police car in the State able to conduct mobile RBT.\n\nIn all states, the maximum blood alcohol content of 0.05% is enforced. Drivers who are found to have a preliminary reading of equal to or greater than 0.05% are usually arrested and taken to the police station or RBT/\"booze bus\" to undertake a breath analysis. The machine used to perform a breath analysis is more sophisticated than the portable device that is used to administer a roadside RBT with the results of a breath analysis being used as evidence in court to prove a drunk driving charge.\n\nIn all states and territories the concept has been extended to make sobriety checkpoints also use \"Random Drug Test (RDT) buses\" (or \"dual buses\"), capable of testing drivers for a number of illicit drugs including cannabis (tetrahydrocannabinol), methamphetamine, and ecstasy (MDMA).\n\nRBT activities even feature on a popular Australian reality television series known by the same name, RBT (TV series). \n\nAs of late 2017 the NSW Police Force has announced it is going to expand its mobile drug testing to include cocaine in 2018. Trials of the program will be in Sydney's eastern suburbs.\n\nDrink driving continues to be one of the main causes of road fatalities and injuries, responsible for 30 percent of road fatalities across Australia.\n\nIn Ontario, Canada, sobriety checkpoints are referred to as Reduce Impaired Driving Everywhere, commonly referred to as RIDE. In Alberta and Manitoba they are referred to as Check Stop, and in British Columbia, they are known as Drinking Driving Counterattack.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution states that: “The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.” This fundamental right has a tense relationship with sobriety checkpoints. At a sobriety checkpoint, drivers are necessarily stopped without reasonable suspicion, and may be asked to be tested summarily and without probable cause. Thus the Constitution would prohibit people from being stopped without a search warrant or at least without reasonable suspicion that they have committed a crime; however, the warrant requirement only attaches should the search be unreasonable and the US Supreme Court, as shown below, decided that such stops are not unreasonable under certain circumstances.\n\nDriving under the Influence of alcohol, or Drunk Driving, is a special type of crime, as driving with a blood alcohol content (BAC) over a set limit is defined as the crime; it is not necessary to drive recklessly or cause an accident in order to be convicted (although an impaired driver who also drives recklessly could face additional charges). To determine BAC accurately, it is generally necessary for the driver to subject himself to tests that are self incriminating, and drivers sometimes exercise their right against self incrimination to refuse these tests. To discourage this, some jurisdictions set the legal penalties for refusing a BAC test to equal or worse than those for failing a BAC test. In other jurisdictions, the legal system may consider refusing the roadside alcohol breath test to be probable cause, allowing police to arrest the driver and conduct an involuntary BAC test.\n\nThe Michigan Supreme Court found sobriety roadblocks to be a violation of the Fourth Amendment. However, by a 6-3 decision\" in Michigan Dept. of State Police v. Sitz\" (1990), the United States Supreme Court found properly conducted sobriety checkpoints to be constitutional.\nIn the majority opinion, Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote, \"In sum, the balance of the State's interest in preventing drunken driving, the extent to which this system can reasonably be said to advance that interest, and the degree of intrusion upon individual motorists who are briefly stopped, weighs in favor of the state program. We therefore hold that it is consistent with the Fourth Amendment.\" Dissenting justices argued against this conclusion. Justice Stevens argued that the checkpoints were not reasonably effective, writing that \"the findings of the trial court, based on an extensive record and affirmed by the Michigan Court of Appeals, indicate that the net effect of sobriety checkpoints on traffic safety is infinitesimal and possibly negative.\" Justice Brennan's dissenting opinion argued that the police had failed to show that the checkpoint seizures were a necessary tool and worth the intrusion on individual privacy. \"That stopping every car might make it easier to prevent drunken driving...is an insufficient justification for abandoning the requirement of individualized suspicion,\" he stated.\n\nJurisdictions that allow sobriety checkpoints often carve out specific exceptions to their normal civil protections, in order to allow sobriety checkpoints. Although the U.S. Supreme Court has found sobriety checkpoints to be constitutionally permissible, ten states (Idaho, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin, and Wyoming) have found that sobriety roadblocks violate their own state constitutions or have outlawed them. One other state (Alaska) does not use checkpoints even though it has not made them illegal. Montana uses checkpoints frequently. Some states combine their efforts in setting up sobriety checkpoint initiatives, such as Checkpoint Strikeforce, jointly run by Virginia, Washington, D.C., Delaware, West Virginia, and Maryland.\n\nIn California, shortly after a 1984 California Attorney General’s Opinion (67 Ops Atty. Gen. 471 (1984, #84-902)), which set out what were intended to be \"strict guidelines\" for the legality of drunk driving roadblocks, police departments and the California Highway Patrol (CHP) began using DUI checkpoints to apprehend drunk drivers in the State of California. In \"Ingersoll v. Palmer\" (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1321, the California Supreme Court approved the use of roadblocks so long as they were carried out pursuant to the \"strict guidelines\" set forth by the Ingersoll Court and were operated in a manner consistent with the Federal and state Constitutions.\n\nAside for cases of sobriety checkpoints, border security (at points of entry into USA) and fugitive apprehension, roadblocks or checkpoints for the purpose of general law enforcement are expressly unconstitutional according to \"City of Indianapolis v. Edmond\", \"Because the checkpoint program's primary purpose is indistinguishable from the general interest in crime control, the checkpoints violate the Fourth Amendment.\" This prohibits checkpoints erected to interdict narcotics or detect evidence of other illegal activities. However, this does not prevent police departments from attempting these types of checkpoints because they can be a significant source of revenue, particularly near festival periods like college spring break. Many individuals that are apprehended for possession of narcotics at these checkpoints are unlikely to be fully prosecuted on those charges, but the police will collect all fees associated with the arrest before reducing the charges or dismissing them altogether.\n\nBecause of some inconsistencies between the laws and actual police practice, some individuals maintain that DUI checkpoints are violation of civil rights under the Constitution. Such checkpoints have been the subject of protests, such as individuals holding signs warning drivers \"Police ahead, turn now.\" In another instance, a driver protested by placing his license, registration and insurance information inside a plastic baggie inside his car's windshield along with a note reading \"I remain silent, No searches, I want my lawyer\".\n\nIn approving \"properly conducted\" checkpoints, Chief Justice Rehnquist implicitly acknowledged that there must be guidelines in order to avoid having these checkpoints becoming overly intrusive. In other words, checkpoints cannot simply be set up when, where and how police officers choose. As often happens in Supreme Court decisions, however, the Chief Justice left it to the states to determine what those minimal safeguards must be, presumably to be reviewed by the courts on a case-by-case basis. To provide standards for use by the states, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration subsequently issued a report that reviewed recommended checkpoint procedures in keeping with federal and state legal decisions.\n\nAn additional source of guidelines can be found in an earlier decision by the California Supreme Court, \"Ingersoll v. Palmer\" (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1321, wherein the California State Supreme Court set forth what it felt to be necessary standards in planning and administering a sobriety checkpoint.\n\nThe \"Ingersoll\" guidelines fall under the following general headings:\nThe U.S. Supreme Court’s decision of \"Michigan Dep’t of State Police v. Sitz\" (1990) 496 U.S. 444, was decided after \"Ingersoll\". The U.S. Supreme Court did not criticize any of the \"Ingersoll\" guidelines, nor did it recommend any others; seemingly making it the law of the land and leaving the decision of whether to permit sobriety checkpoints to the individual states. In \"People v. Banks\" (1993) 6 Cal.4th 926, which was decided after \"Ingersoll\" and \"Sitz\", and incorporated a discussion of both cases in the opinion, the California State Supreme Court held that \"advance publicity\" is not an essential element of the constitutionally of a valid drunk driving roadblock. The Court concluded that although advance publicity remains a factor to consider, the lack of it alone does not render the roadblock unconstitutional. \"People v. Banks\" (1993) 6 Cal.4th 926.\n\nThe following considerations expand upon the general headings listed above:\n\n\nThere is a dearth of research regarding the deterrent effect of checkpoints. The only formally documented research regarding deterrence is a survey of Maryland's \"Checkpoint Strikeforce\" program. The survey found no deterrent effect: \"To date, there is no evidence to indicate that this campaign, which involves a number of sobriety checkpoints and media activities to promote these efforts, has had any impact on public perceptions, driver behaviors, or alcohol-related motor vehicle crashes and injuries. This conclusion is drawn after examining statistics for alcohol-related crashes, police citations for impaired driving, and public perceptions of alcohol-impaired driving risk.\" Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in a 2002 Traffic Injury Prevention report, found that in general, the number of alcohol-related crashes was reduced by 20% in states that implement sobriety checkpoints compared to those that do not.\n\nPublic Health Law Research, an independent organization, reported in a 2009 evidence brief summarizing the research assessing the effect of a specific law or policy on public health, that there is strong evidence supporting the effectiveness of selective breath testing sobriety checkpoints as a public health intervention aimed at reducing the harms associated with alcohol impaired driving.\n\nThere is a debate regarding whether saturation patrols or checkpoints are more effective. The FBI did a study comparing saturation patrols vs. checkpoints in Ohio, Missouri, and Tennessee. The study showed that, “[o]verall, measured in arrests per hour, a dedicated saturation patrol is the most effective method of apprehending offenders.” Another survey found that \"States with infrequent checkpoints claimed a lack of funding and police resources for not conducting more checkpoints.\" The survey found that some states \"...preferred saturation patrols over checkpoints because they were more 'productive'\", given that \"... [a] large number of police officers [were used] at checkpoints.\"\n\nIn May 2015, a \"Chicago Tribune\" study found that between 2010 and 2014, a majority of sobriety checks in Chicago were conducted in black and Latino neighborhoods, despite some white neighborhoods ranking among those with the highest number of alcohol-related traffic accidents.\n\nPolice also use hastily set up roadblocks to check cars and car trunks when they are pursuing an armed and dangerous fugitive, such as an escaped maximum security prisoner or a suspected armed robber or murderer who is believed to be fleeing from police. Police at such a checkpoint may be armed with shotguns, submachine guns or semiautomatic carbines, in addition to their duty sidearms, depending on the laws and regulations in a jurisdiction. When setting up these types of roadblocks, police in some jurisdiction have the authorization to lay a spike strip across the road, to prevent suspects from trying to drive through the roadblock.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25458851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25458851", "title": "Samuel Parker (Hawaii)", "text": "Samuel Parker (Hawaii)\n\nSamuel Parker, known as Kamuela Parker (June 23, 1853 – March 19, 1920) was a major landowner and businessman on the island of Hawaii, heir to the Parker Ranch estate. He was also a leading political figure at a critical time of the history of the Kingdom of Hawaii, serving in its last cabinet.\n\nSamuel Parker was born on June 23, 1853. His paternal grandfather, John Palmer Parker (1790–1868), was a member of the eponymous Parker House Hotel family. John Parker was born in Boston, Massachusetts, but settled in the Hawaiian Islands. He founded the Hawaiian branch of the family when he married Chiefess Kipikane (1800–1860), who was related to the high-ranking chiefs of the Big Island. John's younger son, and Samuel's father, was Ebenezer Parker (1829–1855). Ebenezer Parker also married a Hawaiian woman, Kilia Nahulanui, on June 7, 1849.\nDespite his regular, American-sounding name and upbringing, Samuel Parker was of three-quarters native Hawaiian ancestry.\n\nSamuel Parker's life was influenced by some early deaths in the family. His father Ebenezer had died in 1855, when Samuel was only two years old. Samuel was the second son but his only brother, Ebenezer Christian Parker II, then died in 1860, at the age of ten. Samuel was educated at Oahu College, now known as Punahou School, on Oahu. There he made lasting friendships with his contemporaries among the Hawaiian nobility, a social connection that would prove very helpful in adulthood.\n\nGrandfather John Parker - who did have a long life - died, in 1868, when Samuel was still only 15 years old. Samuel thus found himself the co-proprietor, with his father's elder brother, of the eponymous Parker Ranch.\n\nThe uncle was John Palmer Parker II (1827-1891), who was also married to a Hawaiian lady, Hanai. In 1879, they moved from the Ranch to a much larger and more accessible estate, more suited to their status as a wealthy and prominent couple who liked to entertain: \"Puu o Pelu\". . This left the Ranch house to Samuel and growing, new family.\n\nThe Parker Ranch began in 1847, with a small cottage called \"Mana Hale\", in the remote uplands of Mauna Kea on Hawaii island, at about elevation at , but was quickly built up into a profitable cattle-estate of 1 640 acres. However, when Samuel took over, he also left the cowboy work, and later the management, to others and was soon looking for further business opportunities.\n\nSamuel married Harriet (\"Hattie\") Panana Kaiwaokalani Napela (1852–1901) on August 23, 1871. She was the daughter of Jonathan Napela who was an early convert to Mormonism, She was also three-quarters Hawaiian, and also known as Harriet Richardson, after her mother's maiden name.\nSamuel and Harriet Parker had nine children.\nTheir first daughter was Mary Kihilani Parker (1871–1895). The second daughter, Eva Kalanikauleleiaiwi Parker (1872–1922), married her cousin James Frank Woods, the son of Parker's sister Mary. The third daughter, Helen Umiokalani Parker (1874–1929), married Carl Widemann, son of Hermann Widemann.\n\nSamuel's fourth child, John Palmer Parker III (1875–1893), was adopted by John Palmer Parker II and married Elizabeth Jane Lanakila Dowsett, \nknown to later generations as \"Aunt Tootsie\", on April 18, 1893, at the Parker home in Honolulu. They had one daughter Annie Thelma Kahiluonapuaopiilani Parker March 17, 1894, who generally known by her second name, as Thelma; John III died less than two months later, on May 8, 1894. Thelma married Henry Gaillard Smart July 25, 1912 in Honolulu. and had one son Richard Palmer Smart, born on May 21, 1913. However, she also died soon afterwards, in 1914, aged only 20.\n\nOther children were: Harriet \"Hattie\" Kaonohilani Parker (1876–1884), Palmer Kuihelani Parker (1878–1896), Samuel Keaoulilani Parker (1879–1934), Ernest Napela Parker (1884–1945) and James Kekoalii Parker (1886–1962).\n\nParker's uncle, John Palmer Parker II, died in November 1891.\n\nParker's wife, Harriet, died in 1901, but he did not remain a widower for long.\n\nThe family business was the Parker Ranch, a huge and successful cattle-business in the interior. However, in the second half of the century, the sugar-industry was developing rapidly in Hawaii, and Parker saw a profitable business opportunity and a chance to diversify from reliance on livestock.\n\nIn 1878, he started the Paauhau Plantation with Rufus Anderson Lyman, about 50 miles north of Hilo at coordinates . Lyman was advisor to island governor, Princess Ruth Keelikōlani, the only land owner with holdings greater than those of the Parker Ranch. Her lands later became a major part of the Kamehameha Schools estate.\n\nParker enjoyed being at the heart of Hawaiian business and social life and developing a new and powerful circle of friends and associates. He was often involved in real estate deals involving long-term leases from the Kamehameha estate, or buying them fee simple, and also enjoyed the Hawaiian tradition of lavish entertaining at his estates.\n\nOn August 19, 1879 Parker invested in the nearby Pacific Sugar Mill in Kukuihaele near Waipio Valley. The Pacific mill had an abundant water supply, but eventually failed from mismanagement. In 1883 manager William H. Purvis introduced the mongoose, which became an invasive pest. Herds of cattle and sheep had to be destroyed later when a glanders epidemic broke out because of poor conditions in the stables. Parker was becoming involved in too many projects to concentrate on addressing any particular problems that developed in his growing personal and professional empire.\n\nIn 1883, Parker took his first public role when he became a member of the Privy Council of King Kalākaua. In November 1884, he traveled abroad on official business, with the commission to the World Cotton Centennial in New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1886, he was appointed to the office of royal Equerry, which supplied horses and arranged ceremonial occasions, and to the personal staff of Kalākaua with honorary rank of Major and Equerry in Waiting. Later, he was often addressed as \"Colonel\", but this was also merely a courtesy and there is no record of his ever serving as a regular soldier. He was appointed to the House of Nobles in the legislature from 1886 to 1890.\n\nIn the meanwhile, the ranch had been mortgaged to finance the failed sugar business, and was taken over by trustees and managed by Paul Jarrett in 1888.\n\nIn early 1891 Kalākaua died, and Queen Liliuokalani became the new ruler. On February 25, 1891, Parker was appointed to his first cabinet post, Minister of Foreign Affairs, when John Adams Cummins was told to resign by the queen. On March 3 Parker was appointed to the Commission of Crown Lands. He was generally considered the most powerful member of the cabinet; sometimes called Prime Minister, or Premier, but there was no such official office.\nThe choice of Parker satisfied the people who wanted more native Hawaiians in the government, and he generally had favorable relations with the American interests at the time.\n\nThe first sign of trouble came a week later when Parker also became acting Minister of Finance, temporarily replacing Hermann A. Widemann who was also serving on the Supreme Court. The McKinley Tariff act had devastated the Hawaiian economy by making exports to the US much more expensive, undoing the effects of the Reciprocity Treaty of 1875. It was not until July that former self-taught dentist John Mott-Smith would take over the Finance position, which he had taken earlier under Kamehameha V. However, by October Mott-Smith was sent to Washington, DC to negotiate a trade treaty, and Parker had to again take the Finance position until Widemann could resume his duties on January 28, 1892.\n\nA time of unprecedented instability in the government began in 1892, with the previously biennial part-time legislature having its longest session.\nPower was split among three parties, with only one of them, the Hawaiian National Reform Party, considered loyal to the queen. By early 1892, Marshal Charles Burnett Wilson suspected members of the Hawaiian National Liberal Party were planning a takeover of the government in response to the 1887 Bayonet Constitution which limited voting rights to wealthy non-Asians. These efforts were blocked by the Reform Party, which largely represented wealthy descendants of Americans and Europeans. Parker was attacked by the Liberals and called a \"half-caste cowboy\". By May some of the Liberals were arrested, but most charges were dropped, with Parker agreeing that prosecutions would just inflame tensions further.\n\nReports began circulating that Hawaii was negotiating to be annexed by the United States, but Parker issued denials. In reality, Lorrin A. Thurston (a newspaper publisher whose only government position was as a legislator) had been in Washington lobbying for annexation, but Mott-Smith did nothing to communicate this to Parker. Attorney General Whiting resigned because of a disagreement with Parker. Liliuokalani made a deal with the cabinet: if they supported a lottery to help raise funds, she would appoint Paul Neumann as the new attorney general, who agreed to keep Wilson as marshal. On August 30, 1892 the legislature passed a no confidence motion, insisting the Marshal Wilson be removed. Parker and the rest of the cabinet resigned, but Liliuokalani could not come up with replacements that would be acceptable to her opponents in the legislature. In November 1892 Parker was forced to resign, and was replaced with Joseph Nawahi.\nParker was again appointed to head the government on January 13, 1893 as Minister of Foreign Affairs; it was to be the last cabinet appointed by a ruling monarch. The next day Liliuokalani presented her proposed 1893 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii to the cabinet. Frustrated by their hesitation, she threatened to proclaim it unilaterally. Parker and the other ministers were also warned by Thurston and other prominent citizens not to approve the new constitution, which they saw as returning to a more powerful autocratic rule. Parker met with both Liberals who demanded wider voting rights, and the American minister John L. Stevens, who said he would not support the queen if there was an uprising.\n\nOn January 16, troops from the came ashore, armed but ordered to be as neutral as possible. Parker protested, and asked Stevens to order them to leave, but was told they were protecting American interests. The next day the Provisional Government of Hawaii declared the queen deposed. Parker protested to Stevens one more time, but by the time a response was delivered to Parker, the government building had been seized. Only a small police force led by Charles Burnett Wilson was protecting Liliuokalani, so Parker helped negotiate a surrender of to avoid bloodshed.\n\nFrom San Francisco Parker tried to convince the US to restore the Queen, but the efforts were not successful.\nHe was interviewed by US Commissioner James H. Blount in preparing his Blount Report on April 6, 1893. He stated his opinion that a majority of voters would have approved a restoration of the queen.\n\nParker supported Sanford Dole as the first governor of the Territory of Hawaii, even though he had some encouragement to seek that post himself.\nIn 1900 Parker attended the organizing convention of the Republican Party of Hawaii, and was chosen to attend the national convention in Philadelphia on June 19.\nIn September Parker was nominated without opposition by the Republicans for the first election of delegate to US Congress for the territory.\nPrince David Kawānanakoa ran as a Democrat; they both lost. Parker came in a close second to Robert W. Wilcox of the Home Rule Party of Hawaii.\nParker's first wife died in July 1901.\nHis second wife was Abigail Kuaihelani Maipinepine (1859–1908), widow of industrialist James Campbell. They married January 3, 1902 at the Occidental Hotel in San Francisco, with judge J. C. B. Hebbard officiating. This made him stepfather to Abigail Campbell and his second wife's other daughters. Parker had acquired a reputation as a notorious spendthrift. Even his supporters said:\n\nThe titled and the wealthy of all lands who have visited the islands know Parker and have partaken of his hospitality. Few men have bet more money at poker on small hands than has Colonel \"Sam\" Parker.\n\nThree days later, his stepdaughter Abigail married Prince Kawānanakoa, who had been his opponent in the 1900 election.\nThis family and its descendants became known as the House of Kawānanakoa.\n\nAs part of their honeymoon, in early 1902 the Parkers traveled to Washington, DC, where he visited Theodore Roosevelt.\nThey returned to California February 2, 1902; it was rumored that Parker would be appointed as the next governor of the Territory of Hawaii. However, George R. Carter was appointed instead, descended from American missionaries. It would not be until John D. Waihee III in 1986 that an ethnic native Hawaiian would become governor. \nParker's wife was a target of a jewel theft when they returned in 1903.\n\nAlthough Parker stayed active in the Republican party, he was never elected or appointed to a territorial office. He was able to convince Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaole, brother of his stepson-in-law Kawānanakoa, to run as a Republican in the 1902 election of congressional delegate; Kalanianaole won, and was reelected until his death.\nParker served as the first territorial representative on the Republican National Committee.\n\nIn 1904 he partnered with Kohala Plantation owner John Hind on the irrigation project known as the Kohala Ditch and hired Michael O'Shaughnessy to help engineer the project.\nHe invested in the Hawaiian Irrigation Company of John T. McCrosson, originally called the Hamakua Ditch company, but changed to avoid confusion with the earlier project of a similar name on Maui by Henry Perrine Baldwin. It was intended to build another irrigation system for Parker's Paauhau Plantation. Although Parker arranged various leases for ranch land, these projects fell into turmoil over contractual disputes.\n\nParker was often at odds with Parker Ranch manager Alfred Wellington Carter (cousin of governor George Carter). Carter was steadily investing in enlarging the ranch, while Parker was more interested in using its profits to support his lifestyle. Carter was appointed guardian of Annie Thelma Parker, heir of her adoptive grandfather John Parker II's half interest in the ranch. Carter proposed mortgaging that half to buy out Parker. Parker claimed he rightfully owned the entire ranch and started a lawsuit to remove Carter as guardian and ranch manager. Annie Thelma Parker's mother, who had remarried to Frederick S. Knight of San Francisco in October 1900, publicly attacked Parker saying she \"had personal knowledge of the extravagance of said Samuel Parker and of his inability to manage his own property affairs in a discreet and prudent manner\". Although the court battles dragged on for years, eventually Parker accepted $600,000 and a few small parcels in exchange for his share in the ranch, finalized on September 20, 1906.\n\nAfter his wife Abigail's death in 1908, the Campbell Estate, one of the largest private landholdings in Hawaii, was left in trust to her children from her first marriage.\nParker spent more time in the US, including visiting his distant Boston relations. The press liked to call him the \"King of Hawaii\". His health started to fail, and he headed back to Hawaii in November 1913 on a new steamship of the Matson Navigation Company line.\n\nParker died March 19, 1920, after a heart illness. He and many family members are buried at the original Parker family cemetery near Hale Mana.\nThe Parker Ranch, estimated worth about $6 million at the time, was left in trust to his six-year-old great-grandson Richard Smart. Parker's personal estate went to five surviving children. When Smart died in 1992 the ranch passed to a non-profit trust.\nParker's nephew James Frank Woods (1872–1930), widower of daughter Eva, in 1923 married Elizabeth Kahanu Kalanianaole (1879–1932), who was the widow of Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaole.\nAlthough some sources say the US Post Office for Waimea is named Kamuela for Parker, it is more likely from the name of the postmaster of the area, Samuel Mahuka Spencer (1875–1960).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27909252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27909252", "title": "September 2006 Karaburun, Turkey migrant boat disaster", "text": "September 2006 Karaburun, Turkey migrant boat disaster\n\nSeptember 2006 Karaburun, Turkey migrant boat disaster occurred on 26 September 2006 between the Greek island off Chios and the extreme western end of the Turkish coast near the port city of İzmir. It occurred in the coastal area of Küçükbahçe village, Karaburun district located in the western shore of Karaburun Peninsula, İzmir Province. The coastline of the northern part of Chios island extends opposite to Küçükbahçe village in the Anatolian mainland.\n\nIn the morning of 26 September 2006, a vessel of the Turkish Coast Guard picked up thirty-one illegal migrants from the sea, two of them women. The bodies of six drowned migrants were found on the same day and according to the accounts provided by these survivors three more had gone missing. Those dead by drowning included one Palestinian, one Algerian and one Iraqi national, as well as three Tunisians. The three missing were also Tunisians according to the survivors.\n\n"}
{"id": "20803507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20803507", "title": "State media", "text": "State media\n\nState media or state-owned media is media for mass communication which is \"controlled financially and editorially by the state.\" These news outlets may be the sole media outlet or may exist in competition with corporate and non-corporate media.\n\nState media is not to be confused with public-sector media, which is \"funded directly or indirectly by the state, but over which the state does not have tight editorial control.\"\n\nThe term state media is primarily understood in contrast to corporate media, and occasionally non-corporate independent news, which has no direct control from any political party. Its content, according to some sources, is usually more prescriptive, telling the audience what to think, particularly as it is under no pressure to attract high ratings or generate advertising revenue and therefore may cater to the forces in control of the state as opposed to the forces in control of the corporation, as described in the propaganda model of the mass media.\nIn more controlled regions, the state may censor content which it deems illegal, immoral or unfavourable to the government and likewise regulate any programming related to the media; therefore, it is not independent of the governing party. In this type of environment, journalists may be required to be members or affiliated with the ruling party, such as in the former Soviet Union or North Korea. Within countries that have high levels of government interference in the media, it may use the state press for propaganda purposes:\nAdditionally, the state-controlled media may only report on legislation after it has already become law to stifle any debate. The media legimitises its presence by emphasising \"national unity\" against domestic or foreign \"aggressors\". In more open and competitive contexts, the state may control or fund its own outlet and is in competition with opposition-controlled and/or independent media. The state media usually have less government control in more open societies and can provide more balanced coverage than media outside of state control.\n\nState media outlets usually enjoy increased funding and subsidies compared to private media counterparts, but this can create inefficiency in the state media. However, in the People's Republic of China, where state control of the media is high, levels of funding have been reduced for state outlets, which have forced the Party media to sidestep official restrictions on content or publish \"soft\" editions, such as weekend editions, to generate income.\n\nTwo contrasting theories of state control of the media exist; the public interest or Pigouvian theory states that government ownership is beneficial, whereas the public choice theory suggests that state control undermines economic and political freedoms.\n\nThe public interest theory is also referred to as the Pigouvian theory and states that government ownership of media is desirable. Three reasons are offered. Firstly, the dissemination of information is a public good, and to withhold it would be costly even if it is not paid for. Secondly, the cost of the provision and dissemination of information is high, but once costs are incurred, marginal costs for providing the information are low and so are subject to increasing returns. Thirdly, state media ownership can be less biased, more complete and accurate if consumers are ignorant and in addition to private media that would serve the governing classes. However, Pigouvian economists, who advocate regulation and nationalisation, are supportive of free and private media.\n\nThe public choice theory asserts that state-owned media would manipulate and distort information in favour of the ruling party and entrench its rule and prevent the public from making informed decisions, which undermines democratic institutions. That would prevent private and independent media, which provide alternate voices allowing individuals to choose politicians, goods, services, etc. without fear from functioning. Additionally, that would inhibit competition among media firms that would ensure that consumers usually acquire unbiased, accurate information. Moreover, this competition is part of a checks-and-balances system of a democracy, known as the Fourth Estate, along with the judiciary, executive and legislature.\n\nBoth theories have implications regarding the determinants and consequences of ownership of the media. The public interest theory suggests that more benign governments should have higher levels of control of the media which would in turn increase press freedom as well as economic and political freedoms. Conversely, the public choice theory affirms that the opposite is true - \"public spirited\", benevolent governments should have less control which would increase these freedoms.\n\nGenerally, state ownership of the media is found in poor, autocratic non-democratic countries with highly interventionist governments that have some interest in controlling the flow of information. Countries with \"weak\" governments do not possess the political will to break up state media monopolies. Media control is also usually consistent with state ownership in the economy.\n\nAs of 2002, the press in most of Europe (with the exception of Belarus) is mostly private and free of state control and ownership, along with North and South America. The press \"role\" in the national and societal dynamics of the United States and Australia has virtually always been the responsibility of the private commercial sector since these countries' earliest days. Levels of state ownership are higher in some African countries, the Middle East and some Asian countries (with the exception of Japan, India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Nepal, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand where large areas of private press exist.) Full state monopolies exist in Burma (under the military rule) and North Korea.\n\nIssues with state media include complications with press freedom and journalistic objectivity. According to Christopher Walker in the \"Journal of Democracy\", \"authoritarian or totalitarian media outlets\" such as China's CCTV, Russia's RT and Venezuela's TeleSUR take advantage of both domestic and foreign media due to the censorship under regimes in their native countries and the openness of democratic nations to which they broadcast.\n\n\"Worse outcomes\" are associated with higher levels of state ownership of the media, which would reject Pigouvian theory. The news media are more independent and fewer journalists are arrested, detained or harassed in countries with less state control. Harassment, imprisonment and higher levels of internet censorship occur in countries with high levels of state ownership such as Singapore, Belarus, Burma, Ethiopia, China, Iran, Syria, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.\nIn a similar vein, the public broadcaster in the United Kingdom, the BBC, although funded by the public licence fee and government, insists that it is independent from state control. Countries with a total state monopoly in the media like North Korea and Laos experience a \"Castro effect\", where state control is powerful enough that no journalistic harassment is required in order to restrict press freedom.\n\nThe public interest theory claims state ownership of the press enhances civil and political rights; whilst under the public choice theory, it curtails them by suppressing public oversight of the government and facilitating political corruption. High to absolute government control of the media is primarily associated with lower levels of political and civil rights, higher levels of corruption, quality of regulation, security of property and media bias. Independent media sees higher oversight by the media of the government. For example, increased reporting of corruption in Mexico, Ghana and Kenya after restrictions were lifted in the 1990s, but government-controlled media defended officials.\n\nIt is common for countries with strict control of newspapers to have fewer firms listed per capita on their markets and less developed banking systems. These findings support the public choice theory, which suggests higher levels of state ownership of the press would be detrimental to economic and financial development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39844923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39844923", "title": "SuomiAreena", "text": "SuomiAreena\n\nSuomiAreena is an annual public debate forum held in Pori, Finland. It is organized by City of Pori and Finnish TV-channel MTV3. The forum was first arranged in 2006 and it is inspired by Swedish Almedalen Week in Visby.\n\nSuomiAreena is held in July, simultaneously with Pori Jazz which is one of the largest jazz festivals in Europe. 2013 SuomiAreena consists of 125 events and more than 600 debaters and speakers. The events take place in different locations around the city. They are held in cafés, restaurants, parks, theaters, outdoor stages and other suitable places. Topics of the panel discussions are related with various subjects like politics, society, economics, culture and religion.\n\nAlong with Finnish activists, politicians and other influential people SuomiAreena has a large number of international participants. Most notable international guests have been the President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso (2006), president of the European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet (2007), Director General of the Al Jazeera Network Wadah Khanfar (2009), Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon (2011) and Nobel Peace Laureate Tawakkol Karman (2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "12790223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12790223", "title": "The Trial of Lucullus", "text": "The Trial of Lucullus\n\nThe Trial of Lucullus is a short didactic radio play by the German dramatist Bertolt Brecht written in verse. It was completed in 1940. In it, the great Roman general Lucullus appears after death before a judge and jury of the underworld, who are to decide whether he should be condemned to Hades or admitted to the Elysian fields. The jury, representing the lower classes, allows Lucullus to call as witnesses portrayed on a triumphal frieze. All the evidence is against Lucullus, except for the fact that he introduced the cherry tree to Europe, grieved over the destruction of books, and was possessed of a fine culinary experience.\n\nThough first conceived as an opera, the text was set to music by Paul Dessau. Communist authorities banned it, causing Brecht to revise scenes and changing the title to \"The Condemnation of Lucullus\". The revised version of \"The Condemnation of Lucullus\" premiered in 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "22326710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326710", "title": "Triplemanía IV-B", "text": "Triplemanía IV-B\n\nTriplemanía IV-B was a major \"lucha libre\", or professional wrestling, show promoted by the Mexican-based AAA and was the second of three Triplemanía IV shows held in 1996. The event took place on June 15, 1996 at the International Amphitheatre in Orizaba, Veracruz, Mexico. The annual Triplemanía show(s) are AAA's biggest show of the year, serving as the culmination of major storylines and feature wrestlers from all over the world competing in what has been described as AAA's version of WrestleMania or their Super Bowl event.\n\nThe Main event featured a Lumberjack match between the teams of La Parka, Octagón, and Máscara Sagrada and Killer, Cien Caras, and Heavy Metal. The show also featured an Elimination match with eight different champions, competing for the title of \"Campeón de Campeones\" (\"Champions of Champions\"). The show also featured an Eight-man \"Atómicos\" tag team match that was a preview for the main event of Triplemanía IV-C as the team known as \"Los Junior Atómicos\" (Máscara Sagrada Jr., Tinieblas Jr., Blue Demon Jr., and Halcón Dorado Jr.) fought against \"Los Payasos\" (\"The Clowns\"; Coco Rojo, Coco Verde and Coco Amarillo) and Karis la Momia\n\nJust like in 1994 and 1995 AAA planned out three Triplemanía events in 1994, the first Triplemanía show slated for May 11, the second Triplemanía IV show was booked for June 15 in Orizaba, Veracruz and the Third Triplemanía IV on July 15 in Madero. AAA promoter Antonio Peña wanted to expand AAA into the United States, building on the success they had so far in both Los Angeles and Chicago up to that point and the first Triplemanía IV would take place in Chicago at the International Amphitheatre. The second Triplemanía IV show would take place at the Orizaba Bullring in Orizaba, Veracruz, returning to Mexican soil for the last two shows. Triplemanía IV-B was the ninth overall show produced under the Triplemanía banner.\n\nThe Triplemanía show featured six professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nIn late 1995 \"tecnico\" Halcón Dorado Jr. came to AAA from the UWA as it was closing its doors. In AAA he quickly found himself partnered up with a number of other \"Juniors\", Blue Demon Jr., Máscara Sagrada Jr. and Tinieblas Jr. to form a group that became known as \"Los Junior Atómicos\". Of the four only two of them were actually sons of the wrestlers they took the name of, Tinieblas Jr. (son of Tinieblas) and Blue Demon Jr. (Son of Blue Demon). The remaining two were billed more as \"successors\" and not actually children of Máscara Sagrada and Halcón Dorado. During a tag team match earlier in 1996 a Blue Demon Jr. dive onto Karis La Momia (\"Karis the Mummy\") ended badly, with the storyline being that the dive injured Karis, causing him to grab a char and attack Blue Demon Jr. during the match. The storyline soon saw Karis la Momoa recruit \"Los Payasos\" (\"The Clowns\"; Coco Rojo, Coco Verde and Coco Amarillo) a trio of \"Evil clowns\". which brought out Blue Demon Jr.'s fellow \"Junior Atómicos\" to even the odds. On May 15, 2015 Karis defeated Blue Demon Jr. to win the Mexican National Cruiserweight Championship during a show Naucalpan, Mexico State.\n\nOver the years AAA had recognized a large number of championships, including championships created by other Mexican wrestling promotions such as the Universal Wrestling Association (UWA) and the World Wrestling Association (WWA). At one point they created the IWC World Heavyweight Championship, intended to be AAA's top title, but it was never considered a prestigious as such. In 1996 AAA tried to clarify their championship rankings a bit by holding a one-night tournament where any champion was eligible to compete for the AAA Campeón de Campeones Championship. AAA decided to hold an eight-man Elimination match at Triplemanía IV-B to determine the first \"Campeón de Campeones\"\n\n\n\"Los Junior Atómicos\" faced off against Karis la Momia and \"Los Payasos\" in the main event of Triplemanía IV-C a month later in a steel cage match. The stipulation was that the last person in the cage would be forced to unmask as the match would be contested under \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"bet match\" rules. In the end Halcón Dorado Jr. was forced to unmask as Karis La Momia was able to escape the cage. After unmasking and revealing his real name Halcón Dorado Jr. attacked his fellow \"Junior Atómicos\" with a chair as he felt that they had left him in the cage to lose. With Dorado Jr.'s unmasking and betrayal the storyline with Karis la Momia and \"Los Payasos\" ended. Approximately six months later \"Los Junior Atómicos\" introduced a new member, La Parka Jr., who was in fact Karis La Momia under a new mask and identity.\n\nFollowing his \"Campeón de Campeones\" loss Konnan sought to get revenge on Pierroth Jr., challenging him to a Dog collar match at the subsequent Triplemanía IV-C show. Pierroth Jr. won the match, which turned out to be Konnan's last match at a major AAA event for eight years. By the fall of 1996 Konnan and a number of other AAA wrestlers broke away from AAA as they wanted to present shows that were more hardcore wrestling style of show inspired by Extreme Championship Wrestling out of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, something AAA owner Antonio Peña was not in favor off. Just like Peña had left Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre with a number of younger wrestlers, very talented leaving with him in 1992 Konnan took a large number of AAA's younger, talented wrestlers with him when he left the company in the fall of 1996.\n\nIn a 2000 article about the history of the Triplemanía up until that point Canadian Online Explorer wrestling writer John Molinario stated that the overall booking of the Triplemanía IV shows was \"uninspired and repetitive. Pena recycled old angles that no longer registered with his audience.\" Wrestling commentator and \"lucha libre\" expert Mike Tenay noted that \"Pena's poor promotional background and track record finally haunted him\" stating that at this point AAA no longer had the big name stars to overcome the lack of advertising from AAA's side. Wrestling Observer Newsletter editor Dave Meltzer noted that by 1996 the Triplemanía show became \"just a name for a bigger than average house show rather than the first year where it was like a WrestleMania.\"\n"}
{"id": "597793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=597793", "title": "Troglitazone", "text": "Troglitazone\n\nTroglitazone (Rezulin, Resulin, Romozin, Noscal) is an antidiabetic and anti-inflammatory drug, and a member of the drug class of the thiazolidinediones. It was prescribed for patients with diabetes mellitus type 2. It was developed by Daiichi Sankyo (Japan). In the United States, it was introduced and manufactured by Parke-Davis in the late 1990s, but turned out to be associated with an idiosyncratic reaction leading to drug-induced hepatitis. The F.D.A. medical officer assigned to evaluate troglitazone, John Gueriguian, did not recommend its approval due to potential high liver toxicity; Parke-Davis complained to the FDA and Gueriguian was subsequently removed from his post. A full panel of experts approved it in January 1997. Once the prevalence of adverse liver effects became known, troglitazone was withdrawn from the British market in December 1997, from the United States market in 2000, and from the Japanese market soon afterwards. It did not get approval in the rest of Europe.\n\nTroglitazone, like the other thiazolidinediones (pioglitazone and rosiglitazone), works by activating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs).\n\nTroglitazone is a ligand to both PPARα and – more strongly – PPARγ. Troglitazone also contains an α-tocopheroyl moiety, potentially giving it vitamin E-like activity in addition to its PPAR activation. It has been shown to reduce inflammation: troglitazone use was associated with a decrease of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) and a concomitant increase in its inhibitor (IκB). NFκB is an important cellular transcription regulator for the immune response.\n\nTroglitazone was developed as the first anti-diabetic drug having a mechanism of action involving the enhancement of insulin sensitivity. At the time it was widely believed that such drugs, by addressing the primary metabolic defect associated with Type 2 diabetes, would have numerous benefits including avoiding the risk of hypoglycemia associated with insulin and earlier oral antidiabetic drugs. It was further believed that reducing insulin resistance would potentially reduce the very high rate of cardiovascular disease that is associated with diabetes.\n\nParke-Davis/Warner Lambert submitted the diabetes drug Rezulin for U.S. Food and Drug Administration (F.D.A.) review on July 31, 1996. The medical officer assigned to the review, Dr. John L. Gueriguian, cited Rezulin's potential to harm the liver and the heart and he questioned its viability in lowering blood sugar for patients with adult-onset diabetes, recommending against the drug's approval. After complaints from the drugmaker, Gueriguian was removed on November 4, 1996 and his review was purged by the F.D.A. Gueriguian and the company had a single meeting, at which Gueriguian used \"intemperate\" language; the company said its objections were based on inappropriate remarks made by Gueriguian. Parke-Davis said at the advisory committee that the risk of liver toxicity was comparable to placebo and that additional data of other studies confirmed this. According to Peter Gøtzsche, when the company provided these additional data one week after approval, they showed a substantially greater risk for liver toxicity.\n\nThe F.D.A. approved the drug on January 29, 1997, and it appeared in pharmacies in late March. At the time Dr. Solomon Sobel, a director at the F.D.A., overseeing diabetes drugs, said in a New York Times interview that adverse effects of troglitazone appeared to be rare and relatively mild.\n\nGlaxo Wellcome P.L.C. received approval from the British Medicines Control Agency (MCA) to market troglitazone, as Romozin, in July 1997. After reports of sudden liver failure in patients receiving the drug, the Parke-Davis and the FDA added warnings to the drug label requiring monthly monitoring of liver enzyme levels. Glaxo removed troglitazone from the market in Britain on December 1, 1997. Glaxo had licensed the drug from Sankyo Company of Japan and had sold it in Britain from October 1, 1997.\n\nOn May 17, 1998, a 55-year-old patient named Audrey LaRue Jones died of acute liver failure after taking troglitazone. Importantly, she had been monitored closely by physicians at the National Institutes of Health as a participant in the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) diabetes prevention study. This called into question the efficacy of the monitoring strategy. The N.I.H. responded on June 4 by dropping troglitazone from the study. Dr. David J. Graham, an F.D.A. epidemiologist charged with evaluating the drug, warned on March 26, 1999 of the dangers of using it and concluded that patient monitoring was not effective in protecting against liver failure. He estimated that the drug could be linked to over 430 liver failures and that patients incurred 1,200 times greater risk of liver failure when taking Rezulin. Dr. Janet B. McGill, an endocrinologist who had assisted in the Warner–Lambert's early clinical testing of Rezulin, wrote in a March 1, 2000 letter to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.): \"I believe that the company . . . deliberately omitted reports of liver toxicity and misrepresented serious adverse events experienced by patients in their clinical studies.\"\n\nOn March 21, 2000, the F.D.A. withdrew the drug from the market. Dr. Robert I. Misbin, an F.D.A. medical officer, wrote in a July 3, 2000 letter to the House Energy and Commerce Committee of strong evidence that Rezulin could not be used safely, after having been threatened by the FDA with dismissal in March 2000. By that time the drug had been linked to 63 liver-failure deaths and had generated sales of more than $2.1 billion for Warner-Lambert. The drug cost $1,400 a year per patient in 1998. Pfizer, which had acquired Warner-Lambert in February 2000, reported the withdrawal of Rezulin cost $136 million.\n\nSince the withdrawal in 2000, mechanisms of troglitazone hepatotoxicity have been extensively studied using a variety of in vivo, in vitro and computational methods. These studies have suggested that hepatotoxicity of troglitazone results from a combination of nonmetabolic and metabolic factors. The nonmetabolic toxicity is a complex function of drug-protein interactions in the liver and biliary system. Initially the metabolic toxicity was largely associated with reactive metabolite formation from the thiazolidinedione and chromane rings of troglitazone. Moreover, the formation of quinone and o-quinone methide reactive metabolites were proposed to be formed by metabolic oxidation of the OH group of the chromane ring. Detailed quantum chemical analysis of the metabolic pathways for troglitazone has shown that quinone reactive metabolite is generated by oxidation of the OH group, but o-quinone methide reactive metabolite is formed by the oxidation of the methyl (CH) groups ortho to the OH group of the chromane ring. This understanding has been recently used in the design of novel troglitazone derivatives with antiproliferative activity in breast cancer cell lines.\n\nIn 2009 Pfizer Inc. resolved all but three of 35,000 claims over its withdrawn diabetes drug Rezulin for a total of about $750 million. Pfizer, which acquired rival Wyeth for almost $64 billion, paid about $500 million to settle Rezulin cases consolidated in federal court in New York, according to court filings. The company also paid as much as $250 million to resolve state-court suits. In 2004, it set aside $955 million to end Rezulin cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "27693881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27693881", "title": "Trout memo", "text": "Trout memo\n\nThe Trout Memo, written in 1939, is a document comparing deception of an enemy in wartime with fly fishing. Issued under the name of Admiral John Godfrey, Britain's director of naval intelligence, according to the historian Ben Macintyre it bore the hallmarks of having been written by Godrey's assistant, Ian Fleming.\n\nThe memo reads, in part: \"The Trout Fisher casts patiently all day. He frequently changes his venue and his lures. If he has frightened a fish he may 'give the water a rest for half-an-hour,' but his main endeavour, viz. to attract fish by something he sends out from his boat, is incessant.\" The memo goes on to describe numerous ways that the enemy, like trout, may be fooled or lured in. \n\nOne idea from the memo was broadly similar to Operation Mincemeat, a World War II plan to convince the Germans that the Allies would attack Greece rather than Italy in 1943, although that idea was developed by Charles Cholmondeley in October 1942. Confirmation of the success of the plan was sent to Churchill: \"Mincemeat swallowed rod, line and sinker.\"\n"}
