{"id": "17291223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17291223", "title": "Aerial photographic and satellite image interpretation", "text": "Aerial photographic and satellite image interpretation\n\nPhotographic interpretation is “the act of examining photographic images for the purpose of identifying objects and judging their significance” (Colwell, 1997). This mainly refers to its usage in military aerial reconnaissance using photographs taken from reconnaissance aircraft and satellites.\n\nThe principles of image interpretation have been developed empirically for more than 150 years. The most basic are the elements of image interpretation: location, size, shape, shadow, tone/color, texture, pattern, height/depth and site/situation/association. They are routinely used when interpreting aerial photos and analyzing photo-like images. An experienced image interpreter uses many of these elements intuitively. However, a beginner may not only have to consciously evaluate an unknown object according to these elements, but also analyze each element's significance in relation to the image's other objects and phenomena.\n\nColor imagery is often preferred because, as opposed to shades of gray, humans can detect thousands of different colors. Color aids in the process of photo interpretation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47431", "title": "Atlas Mountains", "text": "Atlas Mountains\n\nThe Atlas Mountains (; , \"idurar n waṭlas\") are a mountain range in the Maghreb. It stretches around through Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. The range's highest peak is Toubkal, with an elevation of in southwestern Morocco. It separates the Mediterranean and Atlantic coastlines from the Sahara Desert. The Atlas mountains are primarily inhabited by Berber populations. The terms for 'mountain' in some Berber languages are \"adrar\" and \"adras\", which are believed to be cognates of the toponym \"Atlas\". The mountains are home to a number of animal and plants unique in Africa, often more like those of Europe; many of them are endangered and some have already gone extinct.\n\nThe basement rock of most of Africa was formed during the Precambrian supereon and is much older than the Atlas Mountains lying on the continent. The Atlas was formed during three subsequent phases of Earth's geology.\n\nThe first tectonic deformation phase involves only the Anti-Atlas, which was formed in the Paleozoic Era (~300 million years ago) as the result of continental collisions. North America, Europe and Africa were connected millions of years ago.\n\nThe Anti-Atlas Mountains are believed to have originally been formed as part of Alleghenian orogeny. These mountains were formed when Africa and America collided, and were once a chain rivaling today's Himalayas. Today, the remains of this chain can be seen in the Fall Line region in the Eastern United States. Some remnants can also be found in the later formed Appalachians in North America.\n\nA second phase took place during the Mesozoic Era (before ~66 My). It consisted of a widespread extension of the Earth's crust that rifted and separated the continents mentioned above. This extension was responsible for the formation of many thick intracontinental sedimentary basins including the present Atlas. Most of the rocks forming the surface of the present High Atlas were deposited under the ocean at that time.\n\nFinally, in the Paleogene and Neogene Periods (~66 million to ~1.8 million years ago), the mountain chains that today constitute the Atlas were uplifted, as the land masses of Europe and Africa collided at the southern end of the Iberian Peninsula. Such convergent tectonic boundaries occur where two plates slide towards each other forming a subduction zone (if one plate moves underneath the other), and/or a continental collision (when the two plates contain continental crust). In the case of the Africa-Europe collision, it is clear that tectonic convergence is partially responsible for the formation of the High Atlas, as well as for the closure of the Strait of Gibraltar and the formation of the Alps and the Pyrenees. However, there is a lack of evidence for the nature of the subduction in the Atlas region, or for the thickening of the Earth's crust generally associated with continental collisions. In fact, one of the most striking features of the Atlas to geologists is the relative small amount of crustal thickening and tectonic shortening despite the important altitude of the mountain range. Recent studies suggest that deep processes rooted in the Earth's mantle may have contributed to the uplift of the High and Middle Atlas.\n\nThe Atlas are rich in natural resources. There are deposits of iron ore, lead ore, copper, silver, mercury, rock salt, phosphate, marble, anthracite coal and natural gas among other resources.\n\nThe range can be divided into four general regions:\n\nThe Anti-Atlas extends from the Atlantic Ocean in the southwest of Morocco toward the northeast to the heights of Ouarzazate and further east to the city of Tafilalt (altogether a distance of approximately ). In the south it borders the Sahara. The easternmost point of the anti-Atlas is the Jbel Saghro range and its northern boundary is flanked by sections of the High Atlas range. It includes the Djebel Siroua, a massif of volcanic origin with the highest summit of the range at 3,304 m. The Jebel Bani is a much lower range running along the southern side of the Anti Atlas.\n\nThe High Atlas in central Morocco rises in the west at the Atlantic coast and stretches in an eastern direction to the Moroccan-Algerian border. It has several peaks over , including the highest summit in North Africa, Toubkal () and further east Ighil m'Goun () the second major summit of the range. At the Atlantic and to the southwest, the range drops abruptly and makes a transition to the coast and the Anti-Atlas range. To the north, in the direction of Marrakesh, the range descends less abruptly.\n\nOn the heights of Ouarzazate the massif is cut through by the Draa Valley which opens southward. It is mainly inhabited by Berber people, who live in small villages and cultivate the high plains of the Ourika Valley.\n\nNear Barrage Cavagnac there is a hydroelectric dam that has created the artificial lake Lalla Takerkoust. The lake serves also as a source for fish for the local fishermen.\n\nThe largest villages and towns of the area are Ouarzazate, Tahannaout, Amizmiz, Imlil, Tin Mal and Ijoukak.\n\nThe Middle Atlas is completely in Morocco and is the northernmost of its main three Atlas ranges. The range lies north of High Atlas, separated by the Moulouya and Oum Er-Rbia rivers, and south of the Rif mountains, separated by the Sebou River. To the west are the main coastal plains of Morocco with many of the major cities and, to the east, the high barren plateau that lies between the Saharan and Tell Atlas. The high point of the range is the jbel Bou Naceur (3340m). The Middle Atlas experiences more rain than the ranges to the south, making it an important water catchment for the coastal plains and important for biodiversity. It is home to the majority of the world's population of Barbary macaque.\n\nThe Saharan Atlas of Algeria is the eastern portion of the Atlas mountain range. Though not as high as the Grand Atlas, they are far more imposing than the Tell Atlas range that runs to the north of them and closer to the coast. The highest peak in the range is the high Djebel Aissa. They mark the northern edge of the Sahara Desert. The mountains see some rainfall and are better suited to agriculture than the plateau region to the north. Today most of the population of the region are Berbers (Imazighen).\n\nThe Tell Atlas is a mountain chain over in length, belonging to the Atlas mountain ranges and stretching from Morocco, through Algeria to Tunisia. It parallels the Mediterranean coast. Together with the Saharan Atlas to the south it forms the northernmost of two more or less parallel ranges which gradually approach one another towards the east, merging in \"Eastern Algeria\". At the western ends at the Middle Atlas range in Morocco. The area immediately to the south of this range is the high plateau of the Hautes Plaines, with lakes in the wet season and salt flats in the dry.\n\nThe Aurès Mountains of Algeria and Tunisia are the farthest eastern portion of the Atlas mountain range. The Aurès natural region is named after the range.\n\nExamples of plants include the Atlas cedar, European black pine, and Algerian oak. Examples of animals included the Atlas bear (extinct), Barbary macaque, Barbary lion (extinct in the wild), Barbary leopard, Barbary stag, Barbary sheep, Atlas Mountain badger, North African elephant (extinct), North African aurochs (extinct), Cuvier's gazelle, Northern bald ibis, dipper, and Atlas mountain viper.\n\n"}
{"id": "58481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58481", "title": "Badakhshan", "text": "Badakhshan\n\nBadakhshan (Pashto/, \"Badaxšân\"; , \"Badaxşon\"; ; , Dungan: Бадахәшон, Xiao'erjing: بَا دَا کْ شًا, Ming dynasty era Chinese name- 巴丹沙) is a historic region comprising parts of what is now northeastern Afghanistan and southeastern Tajikistan. The name is retained in Badakhshan Province, which is one of the 34 provinces of Afghanistan and is located in North-East Afghanistan. Much of historic Badakhshan lies within Tajikistan's Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region located in the south-eastern part of the country. The music of Badakhshan is an important part of the region's cultural heritage.\n\nThe name is derived from the Sasanian official title \"bēdaxš\" or \"badaxš\", which may be from an earlier *pati-axša; the suffix -\"ān\" indicates that the country belonged, or had been assigned as a fief, to a person holding the rank of a \"badaxš\".\n\nBadakhshan has a diverse ethno-linguistic and religious community. Tajiks and Pamiris are the majority while a tiny minority of Kyrgyzs and Uzbeks also are found in their own villages. There are also groups of speakers of several Pamir languages of the Eastern Iranian language group. During the 20th century within Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region in Tajikistan the speakers of Pamir languages formed their own separate ethnic identity as Pamiris. The Pamiri people were not officially recognized as a separate ethnic group in Tajikistan, but in Tajikistan Pamiri movements and associations have been formed. The main religions of Badakhshan are Ismaili Islam and Sunni Islam. The people of this province have a rich cultural heritage and they have preserved unique ancient forms of music, poetry and dance. Nasir Khusraw propagated Ismailism.\n\nBadakhshan was an important trading center during antiquity. Lapis lazuli was traded exclusively from there as early as the second half of the 4th millennium BC. Badakhshan was an important region when the Silk Road passed through. Its significance is its geo-economic role in trades of silk and ancient commodities transactions between the East and West.\n\nAccording to Marco Polo, Badashan/ Badakshan was a province where Balas ruby could be found under the mountain \"Syghinan\" (Shighnan).\n\nThe region was ruled over by the mirs of Badakhshan. Sultan Muhammad of Badakhshan was the last of a series of kings who traced their descent to Alexander the Great. He was killed by Abu Sa'id Mirza the ruler of Timurid Empire and took possession of Badakhshan, which after his death fell to his son, Sultan Mahmud, who had three sons, Baysinghar Mirza, Ali Mirza and Khan Mirza. When Mahmud died, Amir Khusroe Khan, one of his nobles, blinded Baysinghar Mirza, killed the second prince, and ruled as usurper. He submitted to Mughal Emperor Babur in 1504 CE. When Babur took Kandahar in 1506 CE, from Shah Beg Arghun, he sent Khan Mirza as governor to Badakhshan. A son was born to Khan Mirza by the name of Mirza Sulaiman in 1514 CE.\n\nAfter the death of Khan Mirza, Badakhshan was governed for Babur by Prince Humayun, Sultan Wais Khan (Mirza Sulaiman's father-in-law), Prince Hindal, and lastly, by Mirza Sulaiman, who held Badakhshan till October 8, 1541, when he had to surrender himself and his son, Mirza Ibrahim, to Prince Kamran Mirza. They were released by Emperor Humayun in 1545, and took again possession of Badakhshan. When Humayun had taken Kabul, he made war upon and defeated Mirza Sulaiman who once in possession of his country, had refused to submit; but when the return of Prince Kamran Mirza from Sindh obliged Emperor Humayun to go to Kabul, he reinstated Mirza Sulaiman, who held Badakhshan till 1575. Bent on making conquests, he invaded Balkh in 1560, but had to return. His son, Mirza Ibrahim, was killed in battle.\n\nWhen Akbar became Mughal Emperor, his stepbrother Mirza Muhammad Hakim's mother had been killed by Shah Abul Ma'ali. Mirza Sulaiman went to Kabul, and had Abul Ma'ali hanged; he then had his own daughter married to Mirza Muhammad Hakim, and appointed Umed Ali, a Badakhshan noble, as Mirza Muhammad Hakim's agent in 1563. But Mirza Muhammad Hakim did not go on well with Mirza Sulaiman, who returned next year to Kabul with hostile intentions; but Mirza Muhammad Hakim fled and asked Akbar for assistance, so that Mirza Sulaiman, though he had taken Jalalabad, had to return to Badakhshan. He returned to Kabul in 1566, when Akbar's troops had left that country, but retreated on being promised tribute.\n\nMirza Sulaiman's wife was Khurram Begum, of the Kipchak tribe. She was clever and had her husband so much in her power, that he did nothing without her advice. Her enemy was Muhtarim Khanum, the widow of Prince Kamran Mirza. Mirza Sulaiman wanted to marry her; but Khurram Begum got her married, against her will, to Mirza Ibrahim, by whom she had a son, Mirza Shahrukh. When Mirza Ibrahim fell in the war with Balkh, Khurram Begum wanted to send the Khanum to her father, Shah Muhammad of Kashgar; but she refused to go. As soon as Shahrukh had grown up, his mother and some Badakhshi nobles excited him to rebel against his grandfather Mirza Sulaiman. This he did, alternately rebelling and again making peace. Khurram Begum then died. Shahrukh took away those parts of Badakhshan which his father had held, and found so many adherents, that Mirza Sulaiman, pretending to go on a pilgrimage to Makkah, left Badakhshan for Kabul, and crossing the Indus went to India in 1575 CE. Khan Jahan, governor of the Punjab, received orders from Emperor Akbar to invade Badakhshan, but was suddenly ordered to go to Bengal instead, as Mun'im Khan had died and Mirza Sulaiman did not care for the governorship of Bengal, which Akbar had offered him.\n\nMirza Sulaiman then went to Ismail II of Safavid Iran. When the death of that monarch deprived him of the assistance which he had just received, he went to Muzaffar Husain Mirza at Kandahar, and then to Mirza Muhammad Hakim at Kabul. Not succeeding in raising disturbances in Kabul, he made for the frontier of Badakhshan, and luckily finding some adherents, he managed to get from his grandson the territory between Taiqan and the Hindu Kush. Soon after Muhtarim Khanum died. Being again pressed by Shahrukh, Mirza Sulaiman applied for help to Abdullah Khan Uzbek, king of Turan, who had long wished to annex Badakhshan. He invaded and took the country in 1584; Shahrukh fled to the Mughal Empire, and Mirza Sulaiman to Kabul. As he could not recover Badakhshan for himself, and rendered destitute by the death of Mirza Muhammad Hakim, he followed the example of his grandson, and repaired to the court of Akbar who made him a Commander of six thousand. He lived out his life at Akbar's court in Lahore where he died in 1589 CE.\n\nLike neighboring Balkh Subah, Badakshan was shortly conquered in 1641 by Mughal padshah (emperor) Shah Jahan, who turned it also into a short-lived subah (imperial top-level province), only to be lost again in 1647.\n\nThe old capital of Badakhshan was located in Kishim District. In the 18th century the capital of Badakhshan was the town of Khamchan, located three miles west of Faizabad and situated on both sides of the Kokcha River. After the conquest of Badakhshan by Ahmad Shah Durrani in the later half of the 18th century, the capital was relocated to Faizabad, then known as Jauzun. In the 19th century the capital was moved to Jurm, until if finally was relocated back to Fayzabad, Badakhshan.\nIn 1750, Mir Sultan Shah ruler of Badakhshan rebelled against Khizri Beg, Governor of Balkh. After consulting Ahmad Shah Durrani, Khizri Beg marched against Sultan Shah and the \"Wazir\" Shah Wali aided the invading column. The pickets of Badakhshan, Chief of Taloqan, fled from their postal approach of enemy and men of Badakhshan disgusted with their Chief because of his partiality to Kalmak and Kashghar foreigners waited on \"Wazir\" Shah Wali and hailed him as deliverer. Sultan Shah finding resistance hopeless fled to Ailu Basit in hills between Chiab and Pasakoh. The \"Wazir\" Shah Wali returned with force to Kabul leaving his country in charge of Afghan Governor. Sultan Shah returned slew the Governor and regained his country He was attacked by another rival Turrah Baz Khan who supported by Khizri Beg advanced on Faizabad and besieged it. Sultan Shah was taken prisoner. Kunduz Chief was unwilling to lose opportunity seized Turrah Baz Khan and sent both captives to Kunduz and annexed Badakhshan.\n\nIn 1751 Sultan Shah was restored to liberty and his country. He punished marauders of Saki tribe who had desolated Chiab, Takhta Band, Khalpan in Badakhshan. He slew a large portion and 700 horses were taken Place was marked by 200 heads of raiders on Kotal of Khoja Jarghatu and Saki gave no more trouble during Sultan Shah's lifetime This Chief built a fortress at Mashad in which he settled 600 families He made a rest house for travelers at Daryun. In 1756 he made the Chinese recognize \"Akskal\" of Badakhshan at Alti in Xinjiang and levied taxes from Badakhshan families in city.\n\nIn 1759 another enemy appeared led by Kabad Khan the Kataghans attacked Fayzabad, Badakhshan took and put to death Sultan Shah and Turrah Baz Khan. Mir Muhammad Shah son of Sultan Shah escaped and retired to Tang i Nau from whence later he attacked Faizabad, put to death his youngest brother Nasarullah Khan Chief of that place under Government of Kabul, and took the Kingdom. His father's old enemy Kabad Khan whom patronage of Timur Shah Durrani (successor of Ahmad Shah Durrani) had elevated to Chiefship of Kunduz sent a force against Muhammad Shah under Kubadcha they wintered at Sang i Mohr and were joined by Kabad Khan in person. Muhammad Shah submitted and was at Kunduz detained 2 years. After that fortune turned against Kabad Khan. Throwing off his allegiance to Kabul when Timur Shah Durrani was marching against Sindh and Kashmir, Mizrab Bi grandson of Muhammad Bi (old Chief of Kunduz) uniting with Chief of Kubab attacked Kabad Khan, seized him and gave him to Mir Muhammad Shah who put him to death to avenge his father Mir Muhammad Shah returned to Badakhshan to find throne occupied by Bahadur Shah son of a former Chief who had taken Faizabad during captivity of Mir Muhammad Shah in Kunduz. Bahadur Shah was deposed and rightful owner recovered the throne Fortune frowned again on Mir Muhammad Shah. Bahadur Shah obtained aid of the Mir of Shighnan and took Fayzabad, Badakhshan. Mir Muhammad Shah fled to Chiab. In 2 years, Bahadur Shah was put to death by agent of Shighnan Chief named Bahadur who took throne. Muhammad Shah repeatedly attempted to expel him. But aid was refused him by Shighnan Chief and Kurghan Tappa. He regained throne on assassination of Bahadur by his servant. Late usurper's Ministers were all killed. Immediately Mir Muhammad Shah was engaged in hostilities with Jalal ud din Chief of Shighnan who rebelled and held out in fort till Mir Muhammad Shah invested it and rebel submitted. By clemency of victor he was reinstated Chief of Fayzabad, Badakhshan. In same year Shah Abul Faiz son of Shah Shuja of Ragh rebelled against Mir Muhammad Shah and was vanquished. The territory Mir Muhammad Shah divided as follows Iskashim was given to Mir Khan; Rushan to Shah Wali and Warduj to Mahmud Khan brother of Mir Ahmad Beg Kataghan. Mir Muhammad Shah also built a new fort named \"Sarai Bahadur\".\n\nKhodai Nazar Beg Kataghan brother of Darab Bi expelled his 5 nephews from Kunduz and Aliwardi Beg Chief of Kurghan Tippa on pretence of avenging their wrongs attacked Khodai Nazar Beg and drove him from Kunduz. His avarice caused him to occupy country himself. Darab Bi's sons wandered to Badakhshan and Balkh Aliwardi Beg did not long enjoy fruits of treachery. In 1795, Emir Haidar of Emirate of Bukhara invaded Balkh and Kunduz annexed them and took Aliwardi Beg to Bukhara as prisoner.\n\nIn 1812, Mir Sultan Shah II succeeded as mir of Badakhshan after his father Mir Muhammad Shah's death in 1810. He remained friendly with his neighbors and country prospered. He recovered arrears of taxes from Chinese settlers and levied payment in advance. In 1814 he invaded Chitral took thousands of prisoners whom he sold in Balkh, Bukhara, Farghana and Khiva. He died in 1815 leaving 5 sons of whom Mir Yar Beg succeeded as ruler.\n\nMeanwhile, Kunduz was still under Emirate of Bukhara and the wandering sons of Darab Bi Kataghan decided to attack and retake the city which they did in 1810. The Amir of Kunduz was now Mir Muhammad Murad Beg, one of the brothers. Mir Yar Beg was now worried about the rising popularity and power of Mir Muhammad Murad Beg in the region. Eventually, in 1820 the two would face off at Darah Aim in which Mir Muhammad Murad Beg would be the victor. In 1822 4 brothers under the service of Mir Muhammad Murad Beg rebelled led by Kokan Beg. Mir Muhammad Murad Beg and Kokan Beg often fought with each other over territory inconclusively while battling against rebels in their own respective territories for years. Kokan Beg would be assassinated by his ally in Kashkar (lower Chitral) by being pushed down a precipice. Mir Muhammad Murad Beg taking advantage of this situation took Badakhshan by occupying Fayzabad. But despite invading Badakhshan Mir Muhammad Murad Beg had little to no control over it. In fact Badakhshan was now contested by again by Mir Yar Beg, Sikandar Shah, Shahzada Mahmud, Abdul Ghazi Khan and Shah Suliman Beg who were in exile at Tashkurghan under protection of Mir Wali. Fayzabad had a small population under spiritual preceptor Mian Fazal Azim, \"Sahibzada\" of Sirhind. Jirm, Zardeo, Mashad, Daraaim and Fayzabad were successively occupied by these chiefs. Fayzabad fell to Mir Yar Beg who rebuilt his fort and lived in city. The old dynasty thus was restored.\n\nIn 1839 the occupation of Afghanistan by British drove Amir Dost Muhammad Khan into exile. He visited successively Khulam and Kunduz and was well received. They could not aid him against British and Dost Muhammad proceeded to the Emirate of Bukhara. The Emirate of Bukhara was then governed by Amir Nasrullah Khan who was addicted to the society of boys. Sher Ali Khan The son Dost Muhammad Khan was then a beardless youth and Nasrullah Khan coveted him. The Afghan pride of Sher Ali was however inflamed and he informed his father and brothers of the insulting desire of Nasrullah Khan. Dost Muhammad Khan then determined to leave Emirate of Bukhara but he found himself a prisoner and with difficulty escaped together with his sons to Balkh. Also in 1839, Mir Muhammad Murad Beg again attacked Rustak in Badakhshan and appointed an officer of his own in Farkhar. Two months later he also attacked Mashad. But he failed to obtain a footing in Badakhshan which remained in possession of its hereditary Mirs.\n\nIn 1844, Mir Yar Beg while shooting was poisoned by Mir Ahmad Shah at the instigation of Sulaiman Beg and died on his return to Fayzabad. The instigator of the murder had been fascinated by the extraordinary beauty of the wife of Mir Yar Beg and was impelled by his passion for the lady to accomplish the death of her husband. On his death Sulaiman Beg took possession of Fayzabad and married his widow. Mir Ahmad Shah now discovered that the murder of Yar Beg was instigated by Sulaiman Beg with the object of possessing his wife and advancing against him expelled him from Faizabad of which he took possession himself. He then wrote to Mir Atalik Beg, Chief of Kunduz, requesting his aid against Yusuf Ali Khan and Mir Shah to drive them out of Rustak. The letter did not reach its destination but fell by some means into hands of Mir Shah who forwarded it to Sulaiman Shah and invited him to a consultation at Rustak. Both chiefs then united and marched against Mir Ahmad Shah who was expelled to Kunduz. A new distribution was made of country Mir Shah occupied Fayzabad as supreme ruler of Badakhshan. Shah Sulaiman Beg received Dara Aim; Nasrullah Khan got Kashmir and Mashad. Rustak and Chiab were allotted to Yusuf Ali Khan. Jirm to Sikandar Shah and Zardeo Sarghalan was given to \"Shahzada\" Mahmud.\n\nFrom 1840–1859 CE, Afghanistan and Emirate of Bukhara would struggle for Balkh and Badakhshan with Afghanistan succeeding. Mir Shah, chief of Badakhshan and his feudatory of Rustak went to wait on Muhammad Azam Khan (son of Dost Muhammad Khan) with presents and offer of submission. Mir Shah, betrothed his niece (daughter of his brother Nizam-ud-din Khan) to Muhammad Azam Khan. A treaty was made with the Muhammad Azam Khan as follows:\n\nRuler of Badakhshan, children and successors, agree to remain firm in allegiance to Amir of Kabul and officers in Balkh not to join foreign enemy against Amir of Kabul. Ruler of Badakhshan to furnish suitable contingent in difficulty and to aid Amir of Kabul and to give annual presents.\n\nBut Mir Shah had troubles governing his region. Family quarrels over territory kept him busy till his death in 1862. He was succeeded by his son Mir Jahandar Shah. He too would get involved in various intrigues in the region as well as issues of succession in his neighborhood taking one side or the other. In 1865, Mir Jahandar Shah sent his ambassador Syed Muhammad to the British Commissioner in Peshawar to establish friendly relations. However, peace would not last long as Dost Muhammad Khan died and his sons began to fight for the throne. eventually Mir Jahandar Shah was forced to take the side of Sher Ali Khan and Muhammad Azam Khan (who was now married to Mir Jahandar Shah's daughter as well). But Mohammad Afzal Khan would secure Kabul forcing Sher Ali Khan to retreat to Herat. Mir Jahandar Shah would hand over his allies to Mohammad Afzal Khan this angered Sher Ali Khan and his deputy in Akhcha, Faiz Muhammad Khan who went into battle at Gulaugan against Mir Jahandar Shah and defeated him. After flight of Mir Jahandar Shah the country was divided. Mir Jahandar Shah seeks refuge in Kabul where he is restored a year afterwards to his ancestral throne by the influence of Abdur Rahman Khan son of the Mohammad Afzal Khan and by his popularity. His rival Mahmud Shah leaves without a struggle in October 1868. Mir Jahandar Shah of Badakhshan never asked forgiveness for hostilities to Amir Sher Ali Khan with Azam Khan and failed to wait on Governor of Balkh at Takhtapul. Sher Ali in October 1869 invited Mizrad Shah, Muhammad Shah and Ibrahim, deposed chiefs of Badakhshan and restored them. Mir Jahandar Shah fled to Kulab. In December 1869, Mir Jahandar Shah left camp of Emir of Bukhara in Kulab and attacked Badakhshan and burned fort Zang Kila.\n\nAfter being annexed by Afghanistan, Badakhshan was joined with Qataghan to create the Badakhshan-Qataghan district located in Afghan Turkestan Province.\n\nEventually the Great Game would begin with the Russians instigating the Emirate of Bukhara to claim certain territories of Afghanistan and the British recognizing Afghanistan's claim to the territories of dispute. Badakhshan's boundaries were decided by the Anglo-Russian agreement of 1873, which expressly acknowledged \"Badakhshan with its dependent district Wakhan\" as \"fully belonging to the Amir of Kabul\", and limited it to the left or southern bank of the Amu Darya (also called Oxus). On the west, Badakhshan was bounded by a line which crosses the Turkestan plains southwards from the junction of the Kunduz and Amu Darya rivers until it touches the eastern water-divide of the Tashkurghan River, and then runs southeast, crossing Kunduz, until it strikes the Hindu Kush. The southern boundary was carried along the crest of the Hindu Kush as far as the Khawak Pass, leading from Badakhshan into the Panjshir valley. Beyond this it was indefinite.\n\nIt was known that the Kafirs occupied the crest of the Hindu Kush eastwards of the Khawak, but how far they extended north of the main watershed was not ascertainable. The southern limits of Badakhshan became definite again at the Dorah Pass. The Dorah connects Zebak and Ishkashim at the elbow, or bend, of the Oxus with the Lutku valley leading to Chitral. From the Dorah eastwards the crest of the Hindu Kush again became the boundary until it effects a junction with the Muztagh and Sarikol ranges, which shut off China from Russia and India. Skirting round the head of the Tagdumbash Pamir, it finally merged into the Pamir Mountains boundary, and turned westwards, following the course of the Oxus, to the junction of that river and the Khanabad (Kunduz).\n\nSo far as the northern boundary followed the Oxus stream, under the northern slopes of the Hindu Kush, it was only separated by the length of these slopes (some 8 or 10 miles) from the southern boundary along the crest. Thus Badakhshan reached out an arm into the Pamirs eastwards - bottle-shaped - narrow at the neck (represented by the northern slopes of the Hindu Kush), and swelling out eastwards so as to include a part of the great and little Pamirs.\n\nBefore the boundary settlement of 1873 the small states of Rushan and Shugnan extended to the left bank of the Oxus, and the province of Darwaz, on the other hand, extended to the right bank. Then, however, the Darwaz extension northwards was exchanged for the Russian Pamir extension westwards, and the river throughout became the boundary between Russian and Afghan territory; the political boundaries of those provinces and those of Wakhan were no longer coincident with their geographical limits.\n\nChitral, Yarkand and Ferghana became shelters for refugees in 1887 and 1883 from Badakhshan who fled from the campaigns of Abdul Rahman.\n\nThe following were the chief provincial subdivisions of Badakhshan, omitting Rushan and Shugnan: on the west Rustak, Kataghan, Ghori, Narin and Anderab; on the north Darwaz, Ragh and Shiwa; on the east Charan, Ishkashim, Zebak and Wakhan; and in the centre Faizabad, Farkhar, Minjan and Kishm. There were others, but nothing certain is known about these minor subdivisions. Consequently, most western part of modern Gorno-Badakhshan became part of Emirate of Bukhara, while most of it became part of Fergana Province of Russian Turkistan. This arrangement was lasted till 1920.\n\nIn 1890 Qataghan-Badakhshan District was separated from Afghan Turkestan and Qataghan-Badakhshan Province was created. Administration of the province was assigned to the Northern Bureau in Kabul. In 1895, the Panj River was defined as part of the border between Afghan and Russian Badakhshan. This border would persist despite changes in governments.\n\nIn 1902 the Bukharan (Western) Pamir comes under the Russian military administration.\nIn November 1918 the last Czarist Russian troops recognize Bolshevik rule, but in December 1919 the anti-Bolshevik Russian \"Peasant's Army\" from Fergana takes over. From April 1920 the vacuum of power is filled by an attempt to establish Bukharan rule until June 1920 when the Bukharans are expelled by local forces, Bolshevik rule is restored: the Stalinist Soviet Union have seized the Bukharan part of Gorno-Badakshan.\nIt was merged with the Russian (since 1895) part in 1924 to be organized as the Gorno-Badakhshan autonomous \"oblast\" (province) within the Tajik SSR in 1929.\nIn April 1992? - 1993 a Pamiri-Badakshoni Autonomous Republic is declared within independent post-Soviet Tajikistan, on 6 November 1994 becoming the Kohistan-Badakhshan Autonomous Province, alias Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Province or Mountainous Badakhshon Autonomous Veloyat.\n\nIn 1963 Badakhshan included the districts of Baghlan, Pul-i-Khumri, Dushi, Dahan-i-Ghori, Kanabad, Andarab, Kunduz, Hazrat-i-Imam, and Taloqan. In 1963 Qataghan-Badakhshan Province was abolished and since then the territory was divided into four separate provinces: Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunduz and Takhar.\n\nAt the height of Taliban strength during the Afghan Civil War circa 2000, Afghan Badakhashan was a stronghold for the Northern Alliance.\n\nThe conformation of the mountain districts, which comprise all the southern districts of Badakhshan and the northern hills and valleys of Nuristan (the former Kafiristan), is analogous to that of the rest of the Hindu Kush westwards. The Hindu Kush represents the southern edge of a great central upheaval or plateau. It breaks up into long spurs southwards, deep amongst which are hidden the valleys of Nuristan, almost isolated from each other by the rugged and snow-capped altitudes which divide them. To the north the plateau gradually slopes away towards the Oxus, falling from an average altitude of 15,000 feet to 4,000 feet about Faizabad, in the centre of Badakhshan, but tailing off to ~100 at Kunduz, in Kataghan, where it merges into the flat plains bordering the Oxus river.\n\nThe Kokcha River traverses Badakhshan from southeast to northwest, and, with the Kunduz, drains all the northern slopes of the Hindu Kush west of the Dorah Pass. Some of its sources are near Zebak, close to the great bend of the Oxus northwards, so that it cuts off all the mountainous area included within that bend from the rest of Badakhshan. Its chief affluent is the Minjan, which Sir George Robertson found to be a considerable stream where it approaches the Hindu Kush close under the Dorab. Like the Kunduz, it probably drains the northern slopes of the Hindu Kush by deep lateral valleys, more or less parallel to the crest, reaching westwards towards the Khawak Pass. From the Oxus (1,000 feet) to Faizabad (4,000 feet) and Zebak (8,500 feet) the course of the Kokcha offers a high road across Badakhshan; between Zebak and Ishkashim, at the Oxus bend, there is but an insignificant pass of 9,500 feet; and from Ishkashim by the Panj River, through the Pamirs, is the continuation of what must once have been a much-traversed trade route connecting Afghan Turkestan with Kashgar of China. It is undoubtedly one of the great continental high-roads of Asia. North of the Kokcha, within the Oxus bend, is the mountainous district of Darwaz, of which the physiography belongs rather to the Pamir type than to that of the Hindu Kush.\n\nA very remarkable meridional range extends for 100 miles northwards from the Hindu Kush (it is across this range that the route from Zebak to Ishkashim lies), which determines the great bend of the Oxus river northwards from Ishkashim, and narrows the valley of that river into the formation of a trough as far as the next bend westwards at Kala Wamar. The western slopes of this range drain to the Oxus either northwestwards, by the Kokcha and the Ragh, or else they twist their streams into the Shiwa, which runs due north across Darwaz. Here again we find the main routes which traverse the country following the rivers closely. The valleys are narrow, but fertile and populous. The mountains are rugged and difficult; but there is much of the world-famous beauty of scenery, and of the almost phenomenal agricultural wealth of the valleys of Bukhara and Ferghana to be found in the recesses of Badakhshan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7275586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7275586", "title": "Boundary marker", "text": "Boundary marker\n\nA boundary marker, border marker, boundary stone, or border stone is a robust physical marker that identifies the start of a land boundary or the change in a boundary, especially a change in direction of a boundary. There are several other types of named border markers, known as pillars, obelisks, and corners. Border markers can also be markers through which a border line runs in a straight line to determine that border. They can also be the markers from which a border marker has been fixed.\n\nAccording to Josiah Ober, boundary markers are \"a way of imposing human, cultural, social meanings upon a once-undifferentiated natural environment.\" Boundary markers are linked to social hierarchies, since they derive their meaning from the authority of a person or group to declare the limits of a given space of land for political, social or religious reasons. Ober notes that \"determining who can use parcels of arable land and for what purpose, has immediate and obvious economic implications.\"\n\nMany borders were drawn along invisible lines of latitude or longitude, which often created a need to mark these borders on the ground, as accurately as possible, using the technology of the day. Advances in GPS technology have shown that there are many borders inaccurately marked on the ground.\n\nBoundary markers have often been used to mark critical points on political boundaries, i.e. those between countries, states or local administrations, but have also been used to mark out the limits of private landholdings, especially in areas where fences or walls are impractical or unnecessary.\n\nIn developed countries the use of markers for land ownership has in many places been replaced by maps and land ownership registration. Boundary markers are not legal markers in Western countries and may have troublesome legal effects. However, boundary markers have legal meaning in Japan, and are generally installed across the country. Markers are still used extensively for marking international borders, which are traditionally classified into two categories: natural boundaries, correlating to topographical features such as rivers or mountain ranges, and artificial boundaries, which have no obvious relation to topography. The latter category includes borders defined by boundary markers such as stones and walls. International boundary markers are placed and can be maintained by mutual agreement of the bordering countries.\n\nBoundary markers, traditionally, were often made of stone, but later many have been made with concrete or a mixture of materials. They are typically placed at a notable or especially visible point. Many are inscribed with relevant information such as the abbreviation of the boundary holder and often a date.\n\nThe oldest known boundary stone in China is from Jiangsu Province. Dating from 12 A.D., it bears the inscription \"the sea area from Jiaozhou Bay to the east of Guixan county belongs to Langya Shire and the waters from the south of Guixan county to the east of the estuary of Guanhe River belongs to Donghai Shire.\" More recently, the border between Russia and China was formally demarcated with boundary stones as the result of the Treaty of Kiakhta in 1727. In the nineteenth century, stones were used to outline the limits of the International Settlement in Shanghai.\n\nIn ancient Thailand, sacred boundary stones called \"Sema Hin\" delimited Buddhist temple precincts. In some cases they feature inscriptions recounting the history of the temple; others were carved with wheels of the law, while some specimens consist of unfinished stone. In addition to temples, \"sema\" could enclose statues of Buddha or sacred mounds.\n\nAccording to B. S. Jackson, stones were put in place in ancient Israel to \"mark the boundary of a territory (public or private), and to seek to deter potential violators of that boundary through the use of threats.\" The Hebrew Bible contains a strict prohibition against the unauthorized displacement or removal of boundary markers.\n\nAn example of boundary markers in ancient Egypt were the boundary stelae of Akhenaten. They defined the limits of the sacred city of Akhet-Aten, built by Akhenaten as the center of the Aten religious cult which he founded. Egyptologists categorize the stelae based on whether they are inscribed with the \"Earlier Proclamation,\" a general explanation of why the location was selected and how the city would be designed, or the \"Later Proclamation,\" which provides additional details about the perimeters of the city.\n\nGlacial erratics and similar natural stones were often used as boundary markers between properties. Knowledge of their locations was typically maintained by oral tradition, wherein men of each house would walk the length of the border. These stones then became boundary markers for municipalities, and eventually provinces and countries. For example, Kuhankuono is a stone that marks the multipoint border between seven municipalities in Kurjenrahka National Park near Turku. Today, however, steel rods topped with a cube painted orange are usually used. Municipalities often post a traffic sign featuring their coat of arms on the border on major roads. On the Finnish-Russian border, many historical border stones, marked with Swedish and Imperial Russian symbols, are still in use. The actual Finnish-Russian border is marked by small white bollard, but on both sides of the border there are large striped bollards decorated with a coat of arms: a blue/white bollard on the Finnish side, a red/green bollard on the Russian side. Artificial cairns are found on the Norway-Russia-Finland tripoint (Treriksrøysa) and Norway-Sweden-Finland tripoint (Three-Country Cairn). The Sweden-Finland border on Märket is marked with holes drilled to the rock, because seasonal pack ice can shear off any protruding markers. In folklore, a type of haltija, \"rajahaltija\", a kind of a local spirit, was believed to haunt borders that had been unjustly moved.\n\nThe earliest reference to a boundary stone in Greek literature is in the \"Iliad\", which describes the goddess Athena using one as a projectile. Boundary stones, known as \"horos\", could be made of either carved or undressed stones, and were typically inscribed with the Greek word \"horos\". One such stone was used to indicate the edge of the Athenian \"agora\". The practice of separating areas of land with boundary stones, though common, was widely considered by classical writers to be a violation of the principle of communal land ownership.\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the god Terminus was worshiped as the patron god of boundary markers. Ovid, in a hymn directed to the god, wrote: \"O Terminus, whether thou art a stone or a stump buried in the field, … thou dost set bounds to people and cities and vast kingdoms\". Numa Pompillius made the first Roman law requiring boundary stones around private property and instituting capital punishment for anyone found guilty of moving these stones.\n\nIn 1828, the Principality of Monaco and the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia established a physical border with 91 boundary stones, each numbered 1 to 91, running along the border from present-day Fontvieille to Menton-Garavan. Prior to 1848, the Principality of Monaco included the villages of Roquebrune, Monti, Garavan and Menton. Of the original 91 boundary stones only 12 remain: 6 within the Principality of Monaco, 3 in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, and 3 in Menton. The boundary stones numbered 9, 12, 15, and 31 are located in Monaco. Another stone has been cast in concrete in the Sainte-Cécile area of Monaco thus rendering its number illegible. Stone number 55, originally located in Roquebrune, was given as a gift from the city of Roquebrune to the Principality of Monaco and is now located in Monaco's city hall. Stones numbered 56, 57, and 58 are located in Roquebrune. Stones numbered 62, 71, and 73 are located in Menton. All the boundary stones have three engraved sides: one side with their individual numbers (1 to 91), one side with the letter \"M\" indicating Monaco's territory, and one side with a cross (+) indicating the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia's territory. The cross represents the coat of arms of the House of Savoy, rulers of Piedmont-Sardinia.\n\nThe history of marking the Western Australian border on the ground states that the \"Austral Pillar\" and the \"Deakin Pillar\" are points used to determine their position east of Greenwich and then fix a border from, in this case used to determine the line of the 129th meridian east longitude, as the Western Australian border. The Deakin Obelisk and the Kimberley Obelisk in Australia are used in a slightly different way, in that a line is run north and south through a point on the obelisks, formed by a copper plug embedded into the top centre of the concrete obelisks. The \"corners\" in Australia, such as Cameron Corner, Haddon Corner, Poeppel Corner, and Surveyor Generals Corner, are where multiple borders meet or a border changes direction.\n\nThe basic unit of the ancient Hawaiian land division system was the \"ahupua'a\", a self-sustaining agricultural district. The places where a road crossed the border of an \"ahupua'a\" were marked with distinctive altars, known as \"ahu\" or (stone) piles. These altars served not only as boundary markers but also as sites for the performance of religious rituals related to land taxation. C. J. Lyons, an early surveyor of Hawaii, recorded that „[u]pon this altar at the annual progress of the akua makahiki (year god) was deposited the tax paid by the land whose boundary it marked, and also an image of a hog, \"puaa\", carved out of kukui wood and stained with red ochre. … [F]rom this came the name, \"ahupuaa\"“. Naturally occurring landscape features were also used as points of reference for district borders.\n\nThe original boundaries of the District of Columbia were marked using boundary stones. These were made of saw-cut sandstone blocks and stood two feet high when set in the ground. Ten boundary stones were placed along each side of the 100 square mile (259 square kilometer) district of Columbia. Although the original surveyors intended each side to be ten miles (16 kilometers) long, their measurements were often inaccurate, resulting in the sometimes significant misplacement of stones and the overall skewing of the District boundaries. Some of these discrepancies are intentional, because the ground at the exact mile point was covered in water; “in such cases,” Andrew Ellicott, the leader of the surveying crew, noted in 1793, “the stones are placed on the nearest firm ground and the true distance in miles and poles is marked on them”.\n\nInformation engraved on the stones includes the number (1 through 10) of the stone within the sequence on that side of the District, the date of placement, and the words \"Jurisdiction of the United States.\" In the twentieth century, the Daughters of the American Revolution voluntarily took responsibility for preserving the stones, which had fallen victim to vandalization and urban development. In the late 1990s renewed interest in the boundary stones led to increased preservation efforts by the DAR and other organizations.\n\nIn 1773, a Franciscan friar named Francisco Palou erected the first boundary marker between Alta and Baja California. Commissioned by the Spanish Crown, it consisted of a cross made from alder wood and placed standing upright on a rock. In the British colonies, milestones were shipped from England to mark the Mason–Dixon line. A block cut from sandstone was placed at the intersection of Wyoming, Colorado and Utah in 1879, and stone posts were used along the western border of South Dakota. Boundaries were occasionally resurveyed and boundary stones replaced or restored, depending on their condition.\n\nDreieckiger Pfahl, Germany\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3841372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3841372", "title": "Compartmentalization of decay in trees", "text": "Compartmentalization of decay in trees\n\nCompartmentalization Of Decay In Trees (CODIT), also known as Compartmentalization Of Disease In Trees by some, is a concept created by Dr. Alex Shigo after years of studying tree decay patterns. Though disputed upon its introduction in the late 1970s, the concept is now widely accepted by modern arboriculture and is referenced widely in publications including Shigo's 'Modern Arboriculture' and 'A New Tree Biology'.\n\nIn keeping with the theory of spontaneous generation, in which living things can develop from non-living things, scientists traditionally believed that tree decay led to fungal growth. With the advent of germ theory, however, German forester Robert Hartig in the early 20th century theorized the opposite was the case, and developed a new model for tree decay: when trees are wounded, fungi infect the wounds, and the result is decayed wood. Over time, the research of Shigo and others helped to expand this theory, leading to the modern concept of tree decay: when trees are wounded, many organisms, not just fungi, infect the wood at different times and in different ways; trees respond to these infections with both chemical and physical changes; discolored and decayed wood results, but is limited by compartmentalization.\n\nAccording to CODIT, when a tree is wounded cells undergo changes to form \"walls\" around the wound, slowing or preventing the spread of disease and decay to the rest of the tree.\n\n\nBy increasing understanding of how trees respond to decay, CODIT has had many applications. For example, arborists are frequently called upon to analyze the danger posed to people or property by a damaged or decaying tree. By knowing how decay is likely to spread, such hazard tree analyses may be more accurate, thereby preventing unnecessary tree removal, property damage, or injury. For another example, in the production of maple syrup holes are drilled into a tree's vascular tissues, which necessarily damages the tree. CODIT has helped farmers to better understand the effects of different tapping techniques and accordingly to change their methods to minimize damage and maximize production.\n\nWork done by Gilman et al. at the University of Florida shows that a wound's proximity to leaf mass greatly influences compartmentalization as well as wound closure.\n\n"}
{"id": "37299704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37299704", "title": "Cradle Tales of Hinduism", "text": "Cradle Tales of Hinduism\n\nCradle Tales of Hinduism (1907) is a collection of stories by Sister Nivedita. It is an introduction to Hindu mythology; the stories come from the Mahabharata, the Ramayana and other Hindu sources and are presented as they were told in Indian nurseries.\n\nNivedita travelled to India in 1898. Josephine MacLeod, a friend and devotee of Swami Vivekananda asked him how best she could help him and got the reply to \"Love India\". Nivedita wanted to interpret Indian culture to the Western world and so wrote this book.\n\nStories include–\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43740345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43740345", "title": "Damara orogeny", "text": "Damara orogeny\n\nThe Damara orogeny was part of the Pan-African orogeny. The Damara orogeny occurred late in the creation of Gondwana, at the intersection of the Congo and the Kalahari cratons. \n\nThe Damara orogeny involved the suturing of the Congo–São Francisco and Río de la Plata cratons at 580–550 Ma (together with India forming northern Gondwana) before the amalgamation of the Kalahari and Mawson cratons in the Kuunga–Damara orogeny at 530 Ma (southern Gondwana). \n\nThe Adamastor Ocean closed southwards from the Araçuaı́ Belt (São Francisco Craton, now in South America) to the Kaoko Belt (Congo Craton, now in Africa) 580–550 Ma and 545–530 Ma Gariep Belt (Kalahari Craton, now in southern Africa). The Damara orogeny saw a peak in deformation and metamorphism at 530–500 Ma. Thrusting occurred onto the Kalahari Craton until 480 Ma.\n\nRío de la Plata docked to Congo before the closure of the Damara Belt oceans (Mozambique and Khomas) which made the Damara orogeny part of the Kuunga orogeny which stretched from Antarctica to India across Africa. All African cratons had been assembled by 550 Ma and the last stages of the Damara–Kuunga Orogeny (the final amalgamation of north and South Gondwana) were intra-cratonic.\n\nThe Damara orogeny created the Naukluft Mountains in central Namibia between 550 Ma and 495 Ma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2316103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2316103", "title": "Falkland Current", "text": "Falkland Current\n\nThe Falkland Current (also called Malvinas Current or Falklands Current) is a cold water current that flows northward along the Atlantic coast of Patagonia as far north as the mouth of the Río de la Plata. This current results from the movement of water from the West Wind Drift as it rounds Cape Horn. It takes its name from the Falkland Islands (). This cold current mixes with the tropical Brazil Current in the Argentine Sea (see Brazil–Falkland Confluence), giving it its temperate climate. \n\nThe current is an equatorward flowing current that carries cold and relatively fresh subantarctic water. The Falkland Current is a branch of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. It transports between 60 and 90 Sverdrups of water with speeds ranging from a half a meter to a meter per second. Hydrographic data in this area is very scarce and thus various hydrographic variables have a great deal of error. The Falkland Current is not a surface current like the Brazil Current but it extends all the way to the sea-floor. Typical temperatures for the current are around 6 °C, with a salinity of 33.5–34.5 psu.\n\n"}
{"id": "13135065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13135065", "title": "Folha Fede", "text": "Folha Fede\n\nFolha Fede is a village on São Tomé Island in the nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 831 (2012 census). It lies 1.5 km southeast of Trindade.\n\n"}
{"id": "58920390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58920390", "title": "Geology of Romania", "text": "Geology of Romania\n\nThe geology of Romania is structurally complex, with evidence of past crustal movements and the incorporation of different blocks or platforms to the edge of Europe, driving recent mountain building of the Carpathian Mountains. Romania is a country located at the crossroads of Central, Eastern, and Southeastern Europe. It borders the Black Sea to the southeast, Bulgaria to the south, Ukraine to the north, Hungary to the west, Serbia to the southwest, and Moldova to the east.\n\nGeologists subdivide Romania into several structural groupings:\n\nThe Carpathian Orogen folded belt lies 40 percent within Romania. It includes the Main Tethyan Suture (the deformed remains of the Tethys Ocean crust) between the Foreapulian Block and the continental margin of Europe. The inner zone of the orogen was deformed during the Cretaceous, while the outer zones deformed during the Neogene. The inner zone is overlain by the Transylvanian and Pannonian basin Neogen molasse depressions and an additional molasse from the same period overlies the outer zone. Subduction produced two calc-alkaline magmatic arcs.\n\nThe Pan-African orogeny in the late Proterozoic impacted rocks in the Carpathian Forelands. In the Paleozoic, mobile areas formed south and west of the East European Platform, producing the Scythian Platform and the metamorphic rocks of the Carpathians. \n\nRifting began in the early Mesozoic, in the North Dobogrea-South Crimea Aulacogen, likely related to the strike-slip movement of the Tornquist-Teysseire Lineament. Ocean rifting through the Triassic separated Europe from the Preapulian Block. As the spreading of the Tethys Ocean continued, the Moesian Platform was rotated to the northwest and North Dobogrea experienced compression. The crust began to shorten and compress in the area of the Carpathian Mountains, as the Transylvanian nappe formations were obducted onto the edge of the continent. Simultaneously, the North Dobogrea orogenic belt became part of the stable craton of the Carpathian foreland.\nIn the early Paleogene, as the Tethys Ocean closed the Moldovian and Pienidian domain experienced flysch sedimentation and became deformed during the Miocene. Subduction of Tethys Ocean crust led to calc-alkalkine volcanism in the Senonian through the Paleocene and again in the Apuseni Mountains in the Neogene. \n\nThe opening of the Black Sea, forced the increasingly deformed Moesian Platform to the west and molasse basins developed around the rising Carpathians in the Neogene. \n\nSome of the oldest resources in Romania are Archean-age Kyrvoirog-type iron ores in Dobogrea or others from the Paleozoic, situate in the Carpathians. Precambrian rocks also contain polymettalic copper, zinc and lead ores, gold from metamorphic rocks. Gold-silver deposited hydrothermally in the Neogene, while porphyry copper formed through the Paleocene in calc-alkaline arc of the South Carpathians and Apuseni Mountains. \n\nRomania has oil and gas in Moesian and Scythian platform cover, coal in Carboniferous, Jurassic, Miocene and Pliocene basins, Miocene salt deposits in the Transylvanian Depression and Carpathians, Lower Jurassic kaolin in the Apuseni Mountains, Jurassic marble, Neogen alabaster and Oligocene-age amber. \n\nGeological research focused on Romania began in the early 19th century and expanded in the second half of the century led by Austrian and Hungarian geologists. L. Mrazec and I. Popescu-Voitesti wrote the first description of Carpathian structural geology in 1905. The Geological Institute of Romania was founded in 1906. In an effort to expand mining and petroleum extraction, a full mapping of the country was completed by 1958. \n"}
{"id": "22371243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22371243", "title": "Gilliss Seamount", "text": "Gilliss Seamount\n\nThe Gilliss Seamount is a seamount in the Atlantic Ocean. It is part of the New England Seamounts, which was active more than 100 million years ago. It was formed when the North American Plate moved over the New England hotspot.\n"}
{"id": "538986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538986", "title": "Glubbdubdrib", "text": "Glubbdubdrib\n\nGlubbdubdrib (also spelled Glubdubdrib or Glubbdubdribb in some editions) was an island of sorcerers and magicians, one of the imaginary countries visited by Lemuel Gulliver in the satire \"Gulliver's Travels\" by Anglo-Irish author Jonathan Swift.\n\nThe location of Glubdubdrib is illustrated in both the text and the map at the beginning of part III of \"Gulliver's Travels\", though they are not consistent with each other. \nThe map shows Glubdubdrib to be southwest of the port of Maldonada on the southwest coast of Luggnagg, while the text states the island is southwest of Balnibarbi, and Maldonada to be a port of that land.\n\nGlubbdubdrib is about one third as large as the Isle of Wight. The inhabitants of Glubbdubdrib can wield magic, and most of their technology is utilized through magical means. The eldest in succession is prince or governor of the island. He has a 'noble' palace, and a park of about three thousand acres, surrounded by a wall of hewn stone twenty foot high.\n\nOn visiting Glubbdubdrib, Gulliver had the occasion, thanks to the power of their necromancers, to speak with Brutus of ancient Rome, whom Gulliver greatly admired, among many other famous historical personages, including Socrates. Many ideas of historians were corrected this way. Gulliver spends five days doing this, then three days looking at some of the 'modern' dead, trying to find the greatest figure in the past 200 or 300 years in his country and others in Europe. Gulliver gets a new view of historians and heroes, claiming 'I was chiefly disgusted with modern History'.\n\n"}
{"id": "11253654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11253654", "title": "Gold Coast (region)", "text": "Gold Coast (region)\n\nThe Gold Coast was the name for a region on the Gulf of Guinea in West Africa that was rich in gold and also in petroleum, sweet crude oil and natural gas. It now forms the country of Ghana.\n\nThe Gold Coast, Slave Coast, Pepper Coast (or Grain Coast) and Ivory Coast were named after the main export resources there.\nEarly uses of the term Gold Coast refer literally to the coast and not the interior. It was not until the 19th century that the term came to refer to areas that are far from the coast.\nThe Gold Coast was to the east of the Ivory Coast and to the west of the Slave Coast.\n\nGold Coast region territorial entities were:\n\n\"Ghana\" is the legal name for the Gold Coast region comprising the following four separate parts, which immediately before independence enjoyed distinct constitutional positions:\nThe Gold Coast Governors-General responsible for shepherding through the Gold Coast independence legislation Charles Arden-Clarke Lord Listowel explained that the name was.chosen \"in accordance with the wishes of the Gold Coastian population\".\n\nEuropeans reached this region of Africa in 1482, and for centuries afterwards, various European empires and trading companies set up trading posts, known as factories there. They used these colonies to exploit the resources rather than to settle large numbers of subjects. \n\nThe Portuguese Gold Coast was the first claim. The Dutch arrived in 1598 and in 1642 incorporated the Portuguese territory into the Dutch Gold Coast. The Dutch stayed in the region until 1871, when the last of their settlements were taken over by the British Gold Coast.\n\nThere was also the Brandenburger Gold Coast, which established a colony in the area in 1682. It later became the Prussian Gold Coast. In 1721 the Dutch purchased it. The Swedish Gold Coast settlements date to 1650. The Danes arrived in 1663 and later seized the Swedish territorty and incorporated it into the Danish Gold Coast. In 1850 all of the settlements became part of the British Gold Coast.\n\nIn 1774 a London commercial expert references a witness that \"the king of Guinea, the greatest city in all the countries of Negroland, has a mass of gold of thirty pounds weight as it was naturally produced in the mines which is completely pure, tough and malleable without having been smelted\". The British had taken over all of Gold Coast by 1871. They captured more territory inland in the late 19th century after the Anglo-Ashanti wars. In 1957, the territory of Gold Coast was granted independence as Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "9357204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9357204", "title": "Gordon Cullen", "text": "Gordon Cullen\n\nThomas Gordon Cullen (9 August 1914 – 11 August 1994) was an influential British architect and urban designer who was a key motivator in the Townscape movement. He is best known for the book \"Townscape\", first published in 1961. Later editions of \"Townscape \" were published under the title \"The Concise Townscape\".\n\nCullen was born in Calverley, Pudsey, near Leeds, Yorkshire, England. He studied architecture at the Royal Polytechnic Institution, the present day University of Westminster, and subsequently worked as a draughtsman in various architects' offices including that of Berthold Lubetkin and Tecton, but he never qualified or practised as an architect.\nBetween 1944 and 1946 he worked in the planning office of the Development and Welfare Department in Barbados, as his poor eyesight meant that he was unfit to serve in the British armed forces. He later returned to London and joined the \"Architectural Review\" journal, first as a draughtsman and then as a writer on planning policies. There he produced a large number of influential editorials and case studies on the theory of planning and the design of towns. Many improvements in the urban and rural environment in Britain during the 1950s and 1960s. He was also involved in the Festival of Britain in 1951. One of the few large scale Cullen works on public display is the mural in the foyer of the Erno Goldfinger designed Greenside Primary School in west London, completed in 1953. His 1958 ceramic mural in Coventry, depicting the history of the City and its post-war regeneration, is on a much grander scale though now relocated away from its original central location.\n\nHis techniques consisted largely of sketchy drawings that conveyed a particularly clear understanding of his ideas, and these had a considerable influence on subsequent architectural illustration styles. He also illustrated several books by other various authors, before writing his own book - based on the idea of Townscape - in 1961. The Concise Townscape has subsequently been republished around 15 times, proving to be one of the most popular books on Urban Design in the 20th Century.\n\nIn 1956 Cullen became a freelance writer and consultant and, in the years immediately following he advised the cities of Liverpool and Peterborough on their reconstruction and redevelopment plans. In 1960 he was invited to India to advise on the planning aspects of the Ford Foundation's work in New Delhi and Calcutta and so in 1962 he and his family lived in India for 6 months while he worked on the projects. Later, his work included planning advice to the city of Glasgow and during the 1980s the London Docklands Development Corporation.\n\nFor a while Cullen teamed up with a student, David Price, and they formed an architectural firm together - Price & Cullen. They won a competition in London in the 1980s and together designed and oversaw the building of the Swedish Quays housing development in Docklands. They worked together until 1990 as Price's first child was born and because Cullen's health was deteriorating. Price died in 2009 at the age of 53.\n\nCullen lived in the small village of Wraysbury (Berkshire) from 1958 until his death, aged 80, on 11 August 1994, following a serious stroke. After his passing, David Gosling and Norman Foster collected various examples of his work and put them together in the book \"Visions of Urban Design\".\n\nIn 1972 he was elected Honorary Fellow of the RIBA. In 1975 he was awarded with an RDI for illustration and Townscape. The following year he was awarded a medal from The American Institute of Architects. In 1978 he was appointed a CBE for his contribution to architecture from Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "871024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871024", "title": "Greater Helsinki", "text": "Greater Helsinki\n\nGreater Helsinki (, Swedish: \"Helsingforsregionen\", \"Storhelsingfors\") is the metropolitan area including the smaller Capital Region (\"Pääkaupunkiseutu\", \"Huvudstadsregionen\") urban kernel and commuter towns surrounding Helsinki, the capital city of Finland. Greater Helsinki is sometimes incorrectly called (the) \"Helsinki Region\" due to an incorrect direct translation of the Finnish and Swedish terms \"Helsingin seutu\" and \"Helsingforsregionen\". It is part of Uusimaa province.\n\nThese regions are located in the south of Finland, on the coast of the Gulf of Finland, which is part of the Baltic Sea. The smaller Capital Region includes Helsinki, Vantaa, Espoo, and Kauniainen and has a population of over 1.1 million. The Greater Helsinki region is the largest urbanised area in the country with 1,420,284 inhabitants and is by far the most important economic, cultural, and scientific region of Finland. Five out of Finland's 15 universities and most of the headquarters of notable companies and governmental institutions are located in Greater Helsinki, as is Finland's main airline hub and airport, Helsinki Airport, which is located in Vantaa.\n\nIn the strictest sense, the Finnish Capital Region consists of four municipalities with city status, Helsinki, Vantaa, Espoo and Kauniainen, whose total population is about 1.1 million (2014). This area is most often called the \"Capital region\" in English, \"Pääkaupunkiseutu\" in Finnish, and \"Huvudstadsregionen\" in Swedish, although the use of the terms is not especially consistent. The vast majority of the inhabitants live in the urban areas of the cities, but within the boundaries of these cities there are also suburban and rural areas.\n\nCommonly about ten more municipalities are considered to be part of Greater Helsinki, as they can be considered to be commuter towns and exurbs of Helsinki. When Hyvinkää, Järvenpää, Kerava, Kirkkonummi, Nurmijärvi, Sipoo, Tuusula, Mäntsälä, Pornainen and Vihti are included, the number of inhabitants rises to 1.4 million. All of the municipalities belong to the region of Uusimaa. Of these, Järvenpää, Kerava, Tuusula, Nurmijärvi, Sipoo, Kirkkonummi, Mäntsälä and Vihti have parts of the urban area within them. Additionally, the cities of Porvoo, Lohja, and to some extent Riihimäki, which have very close ties, motorway and (in the case of Riihimäki) commuter train accesses, and are fairly close to the capital, are nowadays often included in regional planning, which raises the total population to about 1,550,000.\n\nAs a part of \"Urban audit\" project the Eurostat has attempted to standardise the concept of 'metropolitan area'. According to this study the Metropolitan area of Helsinki consists of the kernel of Helsinki: Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, and Kauniainen. Helsinki Larger Urban Area (Helsingin seutu in Finnish) consists of 12 cities and municipalities: the kernel of Helsinki and the aforementioned eight municipalities.\n\nStatistics Finland define the commuter belt of Helsinki (\"Helsingin työssäkäyntialue\", \"Helsingfors pendlingsområde\") to include a total of 24 municipalities, with a land area of 7,359.80 km and a population of 1,431,108 as of 31 December 2007. In addition to that, there are people from as far as Lahti and even Tampere commuting to Helsinki daily.\n\nThe table below lists population, area, and population density for the largest municipalities of the Greater Helsinki area. (Note that \"Helsinki Metropolitan Area\" and the other terms used are not firmly established and may vary in different contexts.) The commuter towns of Lohja and Porvoo are not usually included, though, if they were (considering their proximity to Helsinki and their high commuting rate), they would raise the overall population to nearly 1.5 million people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10749647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10749647", "title": "ISO 3166-2:BH", "text": "ISO 3166-2:BH\n\nISO 3166-2:BH is the entry for Bahrain in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Bahrain, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 4 governorates. Each code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Bahrain. The second part is two digits (13–17, with the exception of 16, which was assigned to Al Wusţá before its abolition in 2014).\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nNotes\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998. ISO stopped issuing newsletters in 2013.\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22971711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22971711", "title": "Jan of Stobnica", "text": "Jan of Stobnica\n\nJan of Stobnica (ca. 1470 - 1530), was a Polish philosopher, scientist and geographer of the early 16th century.\n\nJan of Stobnica was educated at the Jagiellonian University (Kraków Academy), where he taught as professor between 1498 and 1514. He is the author of numerous works on the subjects of logic, grammar, astronomy, geography, mathematics, music, natural sciences, and ethics.\nJan of Stobnica was one of Kraków's adherents of Scotism, a philosophical school brought in from Paris first by Michał Twaróg of Bystrzyków (ca. 1450 - 1520). Jan of Stobnica became Michał's most prominent student. Jan's most famous work, entitled \"Introductio in Ptholomei Cosmographiam\" (\"Introduction to the Cosmography of Ptolemy\") featured some of the first maps printed in Poland. Likewise, his edition of Ptolemy first contained a map of North and South America showing the connection of the two continents by an isthmus. It is one of the oldest known references to North America with the Gulf of Mexico delimited by the peninsula of Florida, peculiarly labeled \"Isa-bella\" (see engraving), which corresponds to the name of Cuba in primitive times, which in fact he left it blank. \"Cosmographiam\" by Jan of Stobnica, from 1512, are among some of the most precious Polonica of the New York Public Library holdings.\n\nStonbica authored a number of works on logic, grammar, astronomy, geography, mathematics, music, natural science, ethics, and theology.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37665576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37665576", "title": "List of Cabinets of Puerto Rico by session", "text": "List of Cabinets of Puerto Rico by session\n"}
{"id": "41032017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41032017", "title": "List of Honorary Companions of Honour of the National Order of Merit (Malta)", "text": "List of Honorary Companions of Honour of the National Order of Merit (Malta)\n\nPrior to be Honorary Companions of Honour with Collar, they have been Honorary Companions of Honour :\n\n\"N.B. The list can be updated with this page\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15416653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15416653", "title": "List of U.S. National Parks by elevation", "text": "List of U.S. National Parks by elevation\n\nThis is a list of United States National Parks by elevation. Most of America's national parks are located in mountainous areas. Even among those located close to the ocean, not all are flat. Those few that are low-lying preserve important natural habitats that could never exist at high altitude. Several national parks protect deep canyons with great vertical relief. There are also three national parks whose primary features are caves, the depths of which are still being explored.\n\n\"Criteria:\" Points on this list are the highest and lowest points within each national park and its associated national preserve, if it has one. It does not include adjacent or associated national recreation areas, parkways, memorials, or forests, but does include private property within park boundaries. Footnotes are given to mention other notable high or low points, when appropriate.\n\nAdditional National parks:\n45—American Samoa: Lata Mountain is the highest point of American Samoa, on the island of Ta'u at \n51—U.S. Virgin Islands. Highest Point in the park is Bourdeaux Mountain . Outside of the park, the highest peak is Crown Mountain at \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28874068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28874068", "title": "List of current Hollywood Records artists", "text": "List of current Hollywood Records artists\n\nThis is a list of artists who are currently signed to American record label Hollywood Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "27363326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27363326", "title": "List of districts and neighborhoods of Yangon", "text": "List of districts and neighborhoods of Yangon\n\nYangon is administered by the Yangon City Development Committee (YCDC). YCDC also coordinates urban planning. The city is divided into four districts. The districts combined have a total of 33 townships. The current mayor of Yangon is Maung Maung Soe, an economist and a retired professor at the Yangon Institute of Economics. Each township is administered by a committee of township leaders, who make decisions regarding city beautification and infrastructure. \"Myo-thit\" (lit. \"New Towns\", or satellite towns) are not within such jurisdictions.\n\nYangon is a member of Asian Network of Major Cities 21.\n"}
{"id": "3959923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959923", "title": "List of geographic centers of the United States", "text": "List of geographic centers of the United States\n\nThis is a list of geographic centers of each U.S. state. Note that the geographic center of the entire U.S. is northeast of Belle Fourche in Butte County, South Dakota , while that of the contiguous 48 is near Lebanon in Smith County, Kansas . The geographic center of North America lies near Rugby, North Dakota , though this designation has no official status.\n\nThe list given below has been only slightly modified since it was first produced by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) in the early 1920s. At that time, the center for a state was found by suspending a cardboard cutout of the state by a string, and then drawing a vertical line from the suspension point. After rotating the cutout 90 degrees and drawing another vertical line from the new suspension point, the intersection of the two vertical lines was used as the geographic center. The result is dependent upon the type of projection used. \n\nAlthough there have been different definitions offered for the geographic center, an intuitive one, and one used by the USGS, is \"the center of gravity of the surface, or that point on which the surface of the area would balance if it were a plane of uniform thickness.\" An updated list of geographic centers using this definition (which is equivalent to the state's centroid) is given below. It was derived by minimizing the sum of squared great circle distances from all points of land in a state (including islands, but not coastal waters, following the earlier practice of the USGS). It represents a slight improvement over the list originally published \n\nThe geographic center of the contiguous United States, determined in this way, is at (39.8000 N, 99.1086 W); this is 2.7 miles from Agra, Kansas, 4.7 miles from Kensington, Kansas, and 27.9 great circle miles west of the longstanding designated center of Lebanon, Kansas. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "713601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713601", "title": "List of hospitals in Chile", "text": "List of hospitals in Chile\n\nThere are 425 hospitals in Chile. 54% of hospitals are private and the remaining 46% are public.\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Chile. Where there is not an article in the English Wikipedia, but it in the Spanish Wikipedia, the Spanish Wikipedia article link has been included as a parenthetical clickable link, (es).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32038148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32038148", "title": "List of karst areas", "text": "List of karst areas\n\nKarst topography is a geological formation shaped by the dissolution of a layer or layers of soluble bedrock, usually carbonate rock such as limestone or dolomite, but also in gypsum. It has also been documented for weathering-resistant rocks, such as quartzite, given the right conditions. This is an incomplete list of the major karst landscape areas of the world.\n\n\n\n\nBorra Cave or Bora Guhalu in Andhra Pradesh,\nTapakeshwar Cave in Dehradun,\nPanchmari in Madhya Pradesh\n\n\n\n\n\nFile:Halong_ensemble_(colour_corrected).jpg\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKarst poljas (Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian: kraška polja)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlaska\nArizona\nCalifornia\nIllinois\nIndiana\n\nKentucky\nMichigan\nMissouri, Arkansas\nNevada\nNew Mexico\nOklahoma\nOregon\nSouth Dakota\nTennessee\nTexas\nUtah\nVirginia\nWest Virginia\nWisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4092729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4092729", "title": "List of people from Istanbul", "text": "List of people from Istanbul\n\nThis is a list of notable people hailing from the city of Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2539168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2539168", "title": "List of political and geographic borders", "text": "List of political and geographic borders\n\nBelow are separate lists of countries and dependencies with their land boundaries, and lists of which countries and dependencies border oceans and major seas. The first short section describes the borders or edges of continents and oceans/major seas. Disputed areas are not considered.\n\n\"(Notes: Dependencies and islands remote from continental land masses are not considered and are excluded from this list section; thus only continental land borders are considered. The only countries listed either straddle continents or are on a continent border.)\"\n\nSection Key: \n<br>\n( * ) = represents a country that crosses a continental land border\n\n\"(Notes: Dependencies are excluded from this section. See below. Only land boundaries are considered; maritime boundaries are excluded; see the List of countries and territories by maritime boundaries. Disputed territories are not considered, other than the inclusion by necessity, in a neutral fashion, of Western Sahara.)\"\n<br>\nSection Key: \n<br>\n( * ) = represents a sea (or other body of water)'s parent ocean; also it may represent a dependency's parent country\n\n\"(Note: All official and unofficial claims by countries and/or governments on the continent of Antarctica are excluded from this section list.)\"\n\n\"(Note: This section lists only dependencies with land boundaries)\"\nSection Key: \n<br>\n( * ) = represents a sea (or other body of water)'s parent ocean <br>\n\nSection Key: \n<br>\n( * ) = represents a dependency's parent country\n\n\"(Note: Seas are excluded from this list section.)\"\n\nSection Key: \n<br>\n( * ) = represents a dependency's parent country\n\n\"(Note: This section only includes large bodies of water that are designated as a \"sea\" by a large portion of geographers worldwide.)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8952951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8952951", "title": "List of registered political parties in Santa Cruz de Tenerife", "text": "List of registered political parties in Santa Cruz de Tenerife\n\nThe following is a list of political parties registered at the Ministry of Interior, Spain, from 1976-2002.\n\nNote that:\n\n"}
{"id": "4338045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4338045", "title": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in Asia", "text": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in Asia\n\nThis is a list of sovereign states and dependent territories in Asia. It includes both fully recognized states, states with limited recognition, and dependent territories of both Asian and non-Asian states. It lists 49 generally recognized sovereign states (all of which are members of the United Nations), two states with substantial, but not general, international recognition (of which one is a UN observer state), four largely unrecognized de-facto states, and six dependent territories and other territories. \n\nThe 49 generally recognized sovereign states listed herein include two countries that generally are classified as European or African nations but with portions of their territory being in Asia, while the two substantially but not generally recognized states are both fully encompassed in Asia. While most of Russia's area is in Asia, it generally is classified as a European country because its capital (Moscow) and most of its population is in Europe. In addition, while Egypt extends into Asia through the Sinai Peninsula, it generally is considered an African country because most of its population and geographic area is in Africa.\n\nThe divisions between Asia and Europe occur at the Ural Mountains, Ural River, and Caspian Sea in the east, the Caucasus Mountains and the Black Sea with its outlets, Bosporus and Dardanelles in the south. Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkey all have territory in both Asia and Europe. Armenia and Cyprus are entirely in Western Asia but are socio-politically European countries and members of the Council of Europe.\n\nThe division between Asia and Africa is usually considered to be the Suez Canal, placing the Sinai peninsula in Asia, and therefore Egypt may be included as an Asian state.\n\nThe division between Asia and Australasia (Oceania) is disputed, and placed somewhere between Java and New Guinea. Indonesia spans both areas, but is considered to be Asian. East Timor is sometimes considered to be part of Australasia, but due to its being surrounded by Indonesia and its once being part of Indonesia, it is considered Asian. Papua New Guinea is occasionally considered Asian by virtue of neighbouring Indonesia, but this is rare, and it is generally accepted to be part of Australasia. The division between Asia and North America is considered to be the Bering Strait. Some of the Aleutian Islands may be considered as Asian. \n\nA sovereign state is a political association with effective sovereignty over a population for whom it makes decisions in the national interest. According to the Montevideo convention, a state must have a permanent population, a defined territory, a government, and the capacity to enter into relations with other states. It is also important to note that these states were categorized accordingly independent of our endorsement or opposition to their statehood and is based solely on their de facto and de jure statuses\n\nThere are 49 Asian states in this list. All are members of the United Nations.\n\nIn this list, one is a state with substantial and somewhat widespread international recognition, and UN observer-state status, but without practical control over tangible territory, while the other is a de facto state with full practical sovereignty over its territory and unofficial ties with much of the international community but is not widely recognized \"de jure\" and, as of 1971, is no longer recognized by the United Nations.\n\nThe four de-facto states on this list have little or no international recognition and are not members of the United Nations. All are defined as states by the declarative theory.\n\nThe four entities in this list are controlled by a state of which they are not considered to be a part.\n\nThe 2 entities are integral areas of their controlling state, but have a political status that was decided through an international agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "17061986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17061986", "title": "List of typefaces included with Microsoft Windows", "text": "List of typefaces included with Microsoft Windows\n\nThis is a list of typefaces shipped with Windows 3.1x through Windows 10. Typefaces only shipped with Microsoft Office or other Microsoft applications are not included. The \"First Windows version\" column indicates the first edition of Windows in which the font was included.\n\nThis list may be incomplete. Microsoft maintains an up-to-date list of fonts pre-installed or bundled with Microsoft products at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/typography/.\n\nAs of March, 2018 this is list of installed typefaces in Windows 10 US and Canada. The list is from a new install of Windows 10 and only includes the font family name. It does not include the bold and italic styles. 93 typefaces total.\n\n"}
{"id": "4395613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4395613", "title": "List of uninhabited regions", "text": "List of uninhabited regions\n\nThe list of uninhabited regions includes a number of places around the globe. The list changes year over year as human beings migrate into formerly uninhabited regions, or migrate out of formerly inhabited regions.\n\nAs a group, the list of uninhabited places are called the \"nonecumene\". This is a special geography term which means the uninhabited area of the world. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4695097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695097", "title": "Long knives", "text": "Long knives\n\nLong knives or big knives was a term used by the Iroquois, and later by the Mingo and other Natives of the Ohio Country to designate British colonists of Virginia, in contradistinction to those of New York and Pennsylvania.\n\nIt is a literal translation of the treaty name that the Iroquois first bestowed on Virginia Governor Lord Howard in 1684, \"Assarigoe\" (variously spelled \"Assaregoa, Assaragoa, Asharigoua\"), meaning \"cutlass\" in Onondaga. This word was chosen as a pun on Howard's name, which sounds like Dutch \"hower\" meaning \"cutlass\" (similar to the Iroquois' choice of the name \"Onas\", or \"quill pen\", for the Pennsylvania Governors, beginning with William Penn.) This is the very explanation included within official diplomatic correspondence addressed by the Iroquois sachems themselves to then-governor Spotswood in 1722. \n\nGeorge Rogers Clark spoke of himself and men as \"Big Knives\" or Virginians, in his speeches to the Indians in 1778 after the capture of Illinois. In the latter part of the American Revolutionary War, down to and during the War of 1812, the term was used to designate \"Americans\". \n\n"}
{"id": "25648322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25648322", "title": "Lower Kolašin", "text": "Lower Kolašin\n\nLower Kolašin (Montenegrin and ) is a historical region in the present-day municipality of Bijelo Polje in northern Montenegro, towards Serbia. It is situated in the picturesque Vraneš valley formed around the river Ljuboviđa. The most important local populated centers are Tomaševo and Pavino Polje.\n\nLower Kolašin is a region situated in the northern part of Montenegro, at the border with Serbia. It is located between the rivers of Tara, Ljuboviđa, left tributary of Lim river and source of the Ćeotina. It is located at the left side of the Lim river, and its central part is made up of the valley of the Vraneš river. To the south lies the region of Upper Kolašin, around Mojkovac. On the other side of the Lim is the region of Bihor. \n\nThe Ljuboviđa \"župa\" (county) was mentioned in medieval documents beginning in 1281. It was named after a river that passed through the Vraneš valley. The county included an area from the Tara in the west, beyond the Lim to the east, from Brodarevo in the north to south of Mojkovac.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire first established its rule in the region in 1396, and managed to occupy the entire area by 1463–65, making it part of the Sanjak of Herzegovina. The first Ottoman censuses from 1468 and 1477 reveal that the local administrator at that time was one Herak Vraneš, a native.\n\nAccording to the Treaty of San Stefano (3 March 1878), the region was to be ceded to the Principality of Montenegro, however, it was never implemented. With the Congress of Berlin (13 July 1878), the Austro-Hungarians obtained the right to station garrisons in the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. In 1880, the Sanjak of Sjenica (the new Sanjak of Novi Pazar) was established, which included the \"kaza\" (districts) of Sjenica (its seat), Nova Varoš, Bijelo Polje and Lower Kolašin (part of modern Bijelo Polje and Mojkovac municipalities).\n\nIn 1886, Lower Kolašin was ceded to Montenegro. That same year, all Muslim families emigrated to Turkey. The abandoned land was settled by rebels from this area and neighbouring ones, by Prince Nikola I Petrović-Njegoš.\n\nIn 1912, during the First Balkan War, Montenegro occupied Lower Kolašin on 12 October 1912, imposing a rule of terror and fear over the local Muslim population. Shortly thereafter, the three local municipalities were formed in Lower Kolašin with centers in Tomaševo, Pavino Polje, and Stozer. Mass killings of local Muslim population led to their widespread migration to Turkey.\n\nAfter the local Montenegrin administrator, Boško Bošković was murdered near Obod by his countrymen, the Montenegrin nationalists used that as an excuse to blame a local Muslim, Jusuf Mehonić, for the murder, which would open a way for the complete expulsion of Muslims from Lower Kolašin. On 9–10 November 1924, armed hordes of Montenegrin peasants massacred up to 600–700 Muslims in Lower Kolašin, committing the most atrocious crimes. Following this event, all surviving Muslims left Lower Kolašin, relocating to other parts of Sandžak, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Turkey. One family converted to Orthodox Christianity, saving itself from physical extermination.\n\nThe present-day population of Lower Kolašin is 4,300, all Serbs and Montenegrins.\n\nPrior to the massacre in 1924, according to the census in 1912, Lower Kolašin had 14,838 inhabitants, with the following ethnic distribution:\n\n\nIn percentages, the overall breakdown is:\n\nMuslim families that left after the 1924 massacre were the Hadžović, Kaljić and Kolić, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "54533327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54533327", "title": "Marcel Dubois", "text": "Marcel Dubois\n\nMarcel Dubois (25 July 1856 – 23 October 1916) was a French geographer. He was a co-founder of the \"Annales de Géographie\", a journal of academic geography.\n\nMarcel Dubois was born in Paris on 25 July 1856.\nHe attended the École normale supérieure at rue d'Ulm, Paris, from 1876.\nHis schoolmates included the future geographers Bertrand Auerbach and Paul Dupuy, and the future historians Georges Lacour-Gayet, Salomon Reinach and Gustave Lanson.\nAfter graduating, he travelled to Athens in 1880, probably via Rome.\nHe travel through Greece and the Aegean Islands and examined and copied many inscriptions, which were published in the \"bulletin de correspondence hellénique\" between 1880 and 1884.\nDubois returned to France in the fall of 1882 with the material for his thesis on the island of Kos.\n\nDubois's first post was at the Faculty of Arts at the University of Nancy, which he joined in 1882 to teach ancient history.\nHe joined the local geographical society, and from February 1884 to October 1885 was a lecturer in both history and geography.\nHe then replaced Alfred Nicolas Rambaud as professor of history and geography, despite not yet having his doctorate, which he presented on 3 November 1884.\nIn the summer of 1884 Dubois visited the coast of Asia Minor, and went on to the Mediterranean coast of Libya and Egypt.\n\nOn 13 October 1883 Dubois became a lecturer in Geography at the Faculty of Letters, University of Paris.\nThe geography section at the Sorbonne was inaugurated at the start of the 1891 academic year.\nIn 1891 Dubois and Paul Vidal de La Blache founded the \"Annales de Géographie\", a journal.\nA chair of colonial geography was finally established at the University of Paris on 16 May 1893, with Dubois as first professor, a position he held until his death.\nIn 1895 Dubois was appointed to the advisory committee of public instruction of the colonies, and was made a knight of the Legion of Honour.\nDubois broke with La Blache and stopped contributing to the \"Annales\". in 1895.\n\nThe Ligue de la patrie française originated in 1898 with three young academics, Louis Dausset, Gabriel Syveton and Henri Vaugeois, who wanted to show that Dreyfusism was not accepted by all at the University.\nThey launched a petition that attacked Émile Zola and what many saw as an internationalist, pacifist left-wing conspiracy.\nCharles Maurras gained the interest of the writer Maurice Barrès, and the movement gained the support of three eminent personalities: the geographer Marcel Dubois, the poet François Coppée and the critic and literature professor Jules Lemaître.\n\nMarcel Dubois died in Romilly-sur-Andelle, Eure, on 23 October 1916.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148214", "title": "Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region", "text": "Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region\n\nThe Minister-President of the Brussels Capital-Region (, ) is the person leading the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region. The post is appointed for 5 years along with 4 ministers and 3 \"state\" secretaries. While being the leader of the Government, the Minister-President also is the president of the College of the Common Community Commission of Brussels.\n\nThe Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region should neither be confused with the Governor of Brussels-Capital nor with the mayor of the City of Brussels, which is one of the 19 municipalities of Brussels.\n\nThe Minister-President is not counted in the ratio of French-speaking to Dutch-speaking ministers. In practice every Minister-President has been a francophone, though bilingual.\n\n"}
{"id": "24231493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24231493", "title": "Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys", "text": "Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys\n\nThe Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys was a position in the Canadian Cabinet from 1950 to 1966.\n\nThe former offices of Minister of Mines and Resources and Minister of Reconstruction and Supply were abolished by Statute 13 Geo. VI, c. 18, and the offices of the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys and Minister of Resources and Development created by Statutes 13 Geo. VI, c. 16, 17 and 18 respectively, each assented to on 10 Dec. 1949 and proclaimed in force on 18 Jan. 1950.\n\nThe new position of Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources was created on October 1, 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "51625210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51625210", "title": "Noori Gate", "text": "Noori Gate\n\nNoori Gate is a historical landmark, located in Sargodha, Punjab, Pakistan. Noori Gate was built during British Colonial Era in 1903.\n"}
{"id": "55757211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55757211", "title": "Pedra da Galé", "text": "Pedra da Galé\n\nPedra da Galé is an uninhabited islet in the Gulf of Guinea, part of São Tomé and Príncipe. It lies about 4 km off the north coast of the island of Príncipe. It is 4 metres high. Since 2012, the islet forms a part of the Island of Príncipe Biosphere Reserve.\n"}
{"id": "30440626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30440626", "title": "Planet Lofoten", "text": "Planet Lofoten\n\nPlanet Lofoten is a Land Art Installation of the solar system positioned in the open nature of West Lofoten in Northern Norway.\n\nThe Planets are made from stone and range in size from Jupiter at several hundred kilograms to Pluto at only a few grams, and ranges within an area of 30 km from Reine at Moskenes Island to Nordland at Værøy Island. The Sun is still in the construction process and will be a 7-meter diameter sphere made from steel circles, and will be placed at Reine in Lofoten.\n\nThe scale of Planet Lofoten is 1: 200 million.\n\nThe artist Jan Wanggaard says about the project that he intend nothing with the installation other than letting it stay there and maybe inspire people who bump into it in one or the other way ‒ as an artistic expression or a nice tool to help understand the size and proportions of the Solar System that we all live in.\n\nThe documentary film \"Alt Flyter\" (Panta Rei) by Lars Nilssen follows Wanggaard during the realization process of Planet Lofoten over a period of three years.\n\nThe documentary won Award for Creativity at FIFA, the worlds biggest Art Film Festival In Montreal, Canada in 2007 and has since then been shown at several galleries around the world including The Louvre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10835484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10835484", "title": "Pítati", "text": "Pítati\n\nThe Pítati (pí-ta-ti) were a contingent of archers of ancient Egypt that were often requested and dispatched to support Egyptian vassals in Canaan. They are recorded in the correspondence of the 1350 BC Amarna letters, and were often requested to defend against the Habiru, also rogue vassal-kings and foreign troops of neighboring kingdoms (for example, Hatti), who were on the attack.\n\nThe vassal cities and \"city-states\" were constantly requesting the services-(protection) of the Pharaoh's armies, by means of this \"archer-army\" force, basically garrison forces. A request for lodging, and preparations of food, drink, straw, and other supplies required, is often demanded by the pharaoh, for a small, or a large contingent.\n\nThe pítati archer force were mercenaries from the southern Egyptian \"land of Kush\"-(named \"Kaša\", or \"Kaši\" in the letters).\n\nThe first use of Nubian mercenaries was by Weni of the Sixth Dynasty of Egypt during the Old Kingdom of Egypt, about 2300 BC.\n\nA vassal–state letter example from Hiziru, a \"mayor\", often referred to as the \"Man (Lugal) of the City\", in ancient Palestine is EA 337, entitled \"Abundant supplies ready\". The letter is short and undamaged:\nLetter no. 3 of 5 by Milkilu of Gazru (modern Gezer):\nPart of the debate in analyzing the army-archer-force is whether the army just annually accompanied the pharaoh's commissioner or envoy and were then extracting tribute, or whether the archer-force duty was strictly military, and in support of the Egyptian borderlands control and influence. The short time period of the Amarna letters, 15–20 years, (17?), may give an answer to the influence of the archer-forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24188320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24188320", "title": "Ridge A", "text": "Ridge A\n\nRidge A is a site in Antarctica that was identified in 2009 as the best suited location on the surface of Earth for astronomical research. The site, approximately from the South Pole and southeast of Dome A, is situated in a portion of Antarctica claimed by Australia in the Australian Antarctic Territory.\n\nThe site is on the Antarctic Plateau at an altitude of , and has an average winter temperature of . It is possible that this site may have even lower temperatures than Dome A. Ridge A was identified by a team of Australian and American scientists searching for the best observatory spot in the world. The team leader described the site as \"so calm there's almost no wind or weather there at all.\" Ridge A is a low ridge of ice and has been estimated to have very low disturbances to visibility, such as thick atmospheric boundary layer, amount of water vapour and numerous others.\n\nThe site represents the \"Eye of the Storm\", whereby winds flowing off Antarctica in all directions appear to start from a point at Ridge A, where winds are at their calmest. It is also the site of a vortex in which swirling stratospheric winds high up and calm air at ground level combine to make it a place for viewing into space that is three times clearer than any other location on Earth.\n\nResearchers on the project suggested that photographs taken through a telescope at Ridge A could be nearly as good as those taken by the Hubble Space Telescope. Despite the difficult conditions on Antarctica and the remote location of Ridge A, construction costs for an observatory there that could match the Hubble telescope could be built at a fraction of the cost of sending Hubble into space.\n\nFor several years a second Giant Magellan Telescope in Antarctica has been proposed.\n\nSince January 2012, a small international observatory, the High Elevation Antarctic Terahertz (HEAT) telescope, has operated at Ridge A, jointly run by American and Australian researchers. By virtue of the weather, this submillimetre or terahertz telescope is capable of observing wavelengths of light that rarely make it through the atmosphere to the ground anywhere else on Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "36333415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36333415", "title": "Right to food by country", "text": "Right to food by country\n\nThis section provides an overview of the status of the right to food at a national level.\n\nArgentina has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Law 25.724 on the National Programme for Food and Nutrition Security, 2003.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 15 (Provision of basic necessities):\n\n\"It shall be a fundamental responsibility of the State to attain, through planned economic growth, a constant increase of productive forces and a steady improvement of the material and cultural standard of living of the people, with a view to securing to its citizens... the provision of the basic necessities of life, including food, clothing, shelter...\"\nIn 2004, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Bangladesh.\n\nIn 2010, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Benin.\n\nBolivia has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Supreme Decree No 28667 of 5 April 2006; Food Law for Workers, 2004.\n\nIn 2007, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Bolivia.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 227 (Right to food for children and teenagers):\n\n\"It is the duty of the family, of society, and of the State to ensure children and adolescents, with absolute priority, the right to life, health, food, education, leisure, professional training, culture, dignity, respect, freedom, and family and community life, in addition to safeguarding them against all forms of negligence, discrimination, exploitation, violence, cruelty, and oppression.\"\nIn 2003, the Fome Zero (Zero Hunger) government program is introduced by president Lula da Silva, with the objective to eradicate hunger and extreme poverty in Brazil.\n\nIn 2003, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Brazil.\n\nIn 2006, Brazil adopts a framework law on the right to food. Brazil has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Law No. 11,346, 2006 Establishing the National Food and Nutrition Security System (SISAN); Decree No. 6273, establishing the Interministerial Chamber for Food and Nutritional Security, 2007.\n\nIn 2007, Brazil’s National Rapporteur on the Right to Food, Water, and Rural Land files a successful class action on behalf of favela residents.\n\nIn 2010, the Brazilian House of Representatives votes a Constitutional amendment on the right to food.\n\nIn 2010, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, the Special Rapporteur, Mr. De Schutter, pointed to the example of Brazil to highlight the effectiveness of multi-year national framework laws on the right to food.\n\nIn 2012, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Canada.\n\nIn 2012, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to China.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the Colombian constitution, Article 44:\n\n\"The following are basic rights for children... a balanced diet...\"\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution of the Republic of the Congo, Article 34 (Health, Aged, Handicapped):\n\n\"The State is the guarantor of public health. Every citizen shall have the right to a level of life sufficient to assure his health, his well-being and that of his family, notably food, clothing, shelter, medical care as well as necessary social services.\"\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 8 (The Socialist State):\n\n\"...as the power of the people and for the people, guarantees:... That no child be left without schooling, food and clothing.\"\nIn 2007, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Cuba.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the old constitution, Article 19:\n\n\"...The right to a standard of living that ensures the necessary health, food, clothing, housing, medical care and social services.\"\nEcuador has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Law on Food and Nutritional Security, No. 41, 2006; Law on Food Sovereignty, Official Registry No. 583, 5 May 2009.\n\nIn 2008, Ecuador includes the right to food in its Constitution, approved on September 28 by 64% of the population in a referendum. Article 281, titled Food Sovereignty reads: \"Food Sovereignty constitutes an objective and strategic obligation from the State to guarantee its people, communities, pueblos and nationalities self sufficiency in healthy food, culturally appropriate in a permanent form.\"\n\nIn 2009, Ecuador develops a Food Sovereignty Framework Law.\n\nEl Salvador has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Decree 63 of 16 October 2009 which establishes the National Food and Nutrition Security Council \n(CONASAN). At present there are new drafts that update, replace or strengthen the existing legislation.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 90 (Social objectives):\n\n\"To the extent the country's resources permit, policies shall aim to provide all Ethiopians with access to public health and education, clean water, housing, food and social security.\"\nIn 2005, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Ethiopia.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 51 (Protection of Minors and the Elderly):\n\n\"The State will protect the physical, mental and moral health of Minors and the Elderly. It will guarantee them their right to food, public health, education, security and social insurance.\"\n\nAnd Article 99 (Feeding and nutrition):\n\n\"The State will see to it that the food and the nutrition of the population meet the minimum health requirements. The specialized actions among themselves or with international organizations dedicated to public health to achieve an effective national food delivery system.\"\nIn 2005, Guatemala adopts a framework law on the right to food. Guatemala has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Law on National Food and Nutrition Security System, Decree No. 32-2005, 2005. Agreement No 75/06, Regulation to the Law on National System on Food and Nutritional Security, 2006.\n\nIn 2006, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Guatemala.\n\nIn 2010, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Guatemala.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 22:\n\n\"The State recognizes the right of every citizen to decent housing, education, food and social security.\"\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 47 (Duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health):\n\n\"The State shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purpose of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health.\"\nFifty percent of the world’s hungry live in India, with 200 million food-insecure people in 2008 according to the FAO. India ranks 66th out of 88 nations on the Global Hunger Index.\n\nIn 2001, India's Constitutional Court recognizes the right to food, transforming policy choices into enforceable rights. The case started with a written petition submitted to the Supreme Court in April 2001 by the People's Union for Civil Liberties, Rajasthan, leading to prolonged public interest litigation. Moreover, a larger public Right to Food Campaign is founded.\n\nIn 2005, India adopts its Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the Right to Information Act.\nBetween 20 August to 2 September of this year, the Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food leads a country mission to India.\n\nIn 2011, the National Food Security Bill, 2011, popularly known as Right to Food Bill was proposed. In 2013, National Food Security Act, 2013 was passed by the Indian Parliament. The Act guarantees subsidised food to 50% of the urban population and 75% of the rural population. The proposed legislation would provide of rice, wheat and coarse grain at very low prices to \"priority households\" similar to Below Poverty Line families. Distribution will be through the current Public Distribution System, a government-run ration and fair price shops.\n\nRegarding India, the Special Rapporteur has commented:\n\n\"India provides one of the best examples in the world in terms of the justiciability of the right to food. The Constitution of India prohibits discrimination and recognizes all human rights. The right to life is recognized as a directly justiciable fundamental right (art. 21), while the right to food is defined as a directive principle of State policy (art. 47). As it has interpreted these provisions, the Supreme Court of India has found that the Government has a constitutional obligation to take steps to fight hunger and extreme poverty and to ensure a life with dignity for all individuals.\"\nIndonesia has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Food Act No. 7/1996 ; Regulation on Food Security No. 68/2002.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 3 (State Goals):\n\n\"...The planning of a correct and just economic system, in accordance with Islamic criteria, in order to create welfare, eliminate poverty, and abolish all forms of deprivation with respect to food, housing, work, health care, and the provision of social insurance for all.\"\n\nAnd in Article 43 (Principles):\n\n\"The economy of the Islamic Republic of Iran, with its objectives of achieving the economic independence of the society, uprooting poverty and deprivation, and fulfilling human needs in the process of development while preserving human liberty, is based on the following criteria: The provision of basic necessities for all citizens: housing, food, clothing hygiene, medical treatment, education, and the necessary facilities for the establishment of a family.\"\nIn 2006, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Lebanon.\n\nIn 2012, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Madagascar.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 13:\n\n\"The State shall actively promote the welfare and development of the people of Malawi by progressively adopting and implementing policies and legislation aimed at achieving the following goals: Nutrition: To achieve adequate nutrition for all in order to promote good health and self-sufficiency.\"\n2009, Malawi finalises its draft Right to Food Bill (adoption is scheduled for 2010).\n\nIn 2006, Mali adopts its Agricultural Policy Act.\n\nIn 2011, a constitutional reform establishes the right to food in Mexico. The Chamber of Deputies unanimously approved the reform. The State now has an obligation to guarantee the right to food (Art. 4) and to guarantee that the supply of basic foods suffices through rural development (Art. 27):\n\n\"Art. 4: Every person has the right to adequate food to maintain his or her wellbeing and physical, emotional and intellectual development. The State must guarantee this right.\"\n\"Art. 27, Clause XX: Sustainable and integral rural development . . . will also have among its objectives that the State guarantee sufficient and timely supply of basic foods as established by the law.\"\nIn 2011, the Special Rapporteur releases an end of mission statement to his country mission to Mexico\n\nIn 2012, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Mexico.\n\nIn 2005, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Mongolia.\n\nIn 2009, Mozambique sets up a drafting Committee to elaborate a Right to Food Framework Law, which will submit a draft bill on the Right to Adequate Food to the government before the end of 2010.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 63:\n\n\"It is the right of Nicaraguans to be protected against hunger. The State shall promote programmes which assure adequate availability and equitable distribution of food.\"\nNicaragua has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Law on Food and Nutritional Sovereignty and Security, No. 163- 2009, Decree No. 03-2007, Reforms and Amendments to Decree No. 71-98; Regulation to the Law No. 290, Law on Organization and Competences, 2007. At present there are new drafts that update, replace or strengthen the existing legislation.\n\nIn 2010, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Nicaragua.\n\nIn 2002, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Niger.\n\nIn 2006, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Niger.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 16:\n\n\"The State shall assure, within the context of the ideals and objectives for which provisions are made in this constitution... that suitable and adequate shelter, suitable and adequate food, reasonable living wages, are provided for all citizens.\"\nIn 2008, Nepal: A case on the right to food is filed in the Nepalese Constitutional Court, which issues an interim order for the immediate provision of food to hungry communities.\n\nIn 2009, Nepal includes the right to food sovereignty in its interim constitution.\n\nIn 2009 Nicaragua adopts a framework law on the right to food.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 38:\n\n\"The State shall provide basic necessities of life, such as food, clothing, housing, education and medical relief.\"\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 53 (Children):\n\n\"Every parent has the right and obligation to care for, to feed, to educate, and to support his children while they are minors. The laws will punish those parents who fail to comply with their duty to provide their children with food...\"\nIn 2004, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Occupied Palestinian Territories.\n\nPeru has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Decree No. 118-2002 PCM, establishing the Multisectoral Commission on Food Security, 2002; Decree No. 139/02/PCM, Conforming the Technical Committee of the Multisectoral Commission on Food Security, 2002. At present there are new drafts that update, replace or strengthen the existing legislation.\n\nIn 1996, South Africa includes the right to food in its Constitution (Chapter 2, Section 27). All social and economic rights are justiciable under South African law and the South African Bill of Rights, incorporated into the Constitution, explicitly provides every person the right to have access to sufficient food and water, subject to progressive realization.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Section 27 (Health care, food, water and social security):\n\n\"1) Everyone has the right to have access to:\na) health care services, including reproductive health care; b) sufficient food and water; and c) social security, including, if they are unable to support themselves and their dependants, appropriate social assistance.\n2)The state must take reasonable legislative and other measures, within its available resources, to achieve the progressive realization of each of these rights...\"\n\nAnd in Section 28 (Children):\n\n\"1) Every child has the right to:\na) a name and a nationality from birth; b) family care or parental care, or to appropriate alternative care when removed from the family environment; c) basic nutrition, shelter, basic health care services and social services...\"\nIn 2005, a case gets brought before the South African Equality Court demanding the protection of the livelihoods of traditional fishers. In 2007, the Equality Court demands an alteration of the fishery policy to comply with the right to food.\n\nIn 2012, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to South Africa.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 27:\n\n\"The State is pledged to establish in Sri Lanka a democratic socialist society, the objectives of which include... the realization by all citizens of an adequate standard of living for themselves and their families, including adequate food, clothing and housing...\"\nIn 2011, the Special Rapporteur leads a country mission to Syria.\n\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Objective 14 (General social and economic objectives):\n\n\"The State shall endeavour to fulfil the fundamental rights of all Ugandans to social justice and economic development and shall, in particular, ensure that... all Ugandans enjoy rights and opportunities and access to education, health services, clean and safe water, decent shelter, adequate clothing, food, security and pension and retirements benefits.\"\nThe right to food is enshrined in the constitution, Article 48:\n\n\"Everyone has the right to a standard of living sufficient for himself or herself, and his or her family that includes adequate nutrition, clothing and housing.\"\nVenezuela has included the topic of food sovereignty in framework law, though its status is sometimes controversial: Organic Law on Agricultural and Food Security and Sovereignty, Decree No 6.071, 2008; Law establishing a Programme on Food for Workers, 1998; Law on Food for Workers, 2004; \nDecree No. 4.448, Regulation of the Law on Food for Workers, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "47977593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47977593", "title": "Roger Kasperson", "text": "Roger Kasperson\n\nRoger Kasperson (born 1938) is an American risk analyst, a distinguished academic and professor at Clark University and is one of the proponents of Risk perception studies with his work on The Social Amplification/Attentuation of Risk Framework (SARF).\n\nHonored by the Association of American Geographers for his research on hazards, he also served on various committees of the U.S. National Research Council (a.k.a., National Science Foundation) as well as the council of the Society for Risk Analysis and was given the 2006 Distinguished Achievement Award of the SRA. He is an elected member of the National Academy of Sciences and served as executive director for the Stockholm Environment Institute 2000–2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28250126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28250126", "title": "Rudnicki", "text": "Rudnicki\n\nRudnicki (feminine: Rudnicka) is a Polish-language toponymic surname derived from one of places named Rudnica. The Russian-language equivalent is Rudnitsky, Lithuanian: Rudnickis\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24021338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24021338", "title": "Shumbi, Papua New Guinea", "text": "Shumbi, Papua New Guinea\n\nShumbi is a location in Southern Highlands, Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "11666985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11666985", "title": "Sierra Leone River", "text": "Sierra Leone River\n\nThe Sierra Leone River is a river estuary on the Atlantic Ocean in Western Sierra Leone. It is formed by the Bankasoka River and Rokel River and is between 4 and 10 miles wide (6–16 km) and 25 miles (40 km) long. It holds the major ports of Queen Elizabeth II Quay and Pepel. The estuary is also important for shipping. It is the largest natural harbour in the African continent. Several islands, including Tasso Island (the largest), Tombo Island, and the historically important Bunce Island, are located in the estuary.\n\nThe river separates Freetown, Sierra Leone's capital city, which is on the south side of the harbor, from the country's principal airport, Lungi International Airport, which is on the north side of the harbor in an area called the \"Bullom Shore.\" The primary means of transportation from the airport to Freetown are by speed boat or ferry. Hovercraft, or helicopter services are no longer running.\n\nThe of the Sierra Leone River estuary is classified as a wetland of international importance RAMSAR convention in the west of Sierra Leone. The area is mainly Mangrove swamps but also includes tidal freshwater swamp forests.\n\n"}
{"id": "2724298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2724298", "title": "Stanitsa", "text": "Stanitsa\n\nStanitsa (; , \"stanytsia\") is a village inside a Cossack host (viysko) (, \"kazachye voysko\", sometimes translated as \"Cossack Army\"). Stanitsas were the primary unit of Cossack hosts.\n\nWhile the word \"stanitsa\" in a modern usage survives, the stanitsa system in its historic context was effectively destroyed in the aftermath of the Russian revolution, when the Civil War and subsequent collectivisation of the land by the state in the Stalinist period and Holodomor destroyed the culture and the economic foundations of stanitsas.\n\nHistorically, the stanitsa was a unit of economic and political organisation of the Cossack peoples primarily in the southern regions of the Russian Empire. \n\nMuch of the land was held in common by the stanitsa, subject to annual allocation to Cossack families by the Ataman, the appointed leader of the community. This was a fully democratic, unique process, characteristic of Russia's South only. A similar democratic system was only used in Novgorod Republic, before its annexation by the Muscovite Tsardom.\n\nIn modern Russia, stanitsas are classified as a type of rural localities and are mostly predominant in the southern regions of Rostov Oblast, Krasnodar and Stavropol Krais and most of the Republics of the Northern Caucasus.\n"}
{"id": "13449133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13449133", "title": "Timeline of the Colombian conflict", "text": "Timeline of the Colombian conflict\n\nThis is a timeline of events related to the Colombian armed conflict.\n\n\"This timeline is incomplete; some important events may be missing. Please help add to it.\"\n\nEvents that preceded the conflict.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "938088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938088", "title": "William Roy", "text": "William Roy\n\nMajor-General William Roy FRS, FSA FRSE (4 May 1726 – 1 July 1790) was a Scottish military engineer, surveyor, and antiquarian. He was an innovator who applied new scientific discoveries and newly emerging technologies to the accurate geodetic mapping of Great Britain. His masterpiece is usually referred to as Roy's Map of Scotland.\n\nIt was Roy's advocacy and leadership that led to the creation of the Ordnance Survey in 1791, the year after his death. His technical work in the establishment of a surveying baseline won him the Copley Medal in 1785. His maps and drawings of Roman archaeological sites in Scotland were the first accurate and systematic study of the subject, and have not been improved upon even today. Roy was a fellow of the Royal Society and a member of the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\n\nRoy was born at Milton Head in Carluke parish in South Lanarkshire on 4 May 1726. His father was a factor in the service of the Gordons/Hamiltons of Hallcraig, as well as an elder of the Kirk. His grandfather had held a similar position as factor, and his uncle acted in that capacity for the Lockharts of Lee. Thus Roy grew up in an environment where making land surveys and using maps was part of the daily business. He was educated in Carluke parish school and then Lanark Grammar School. There is no record of a further education such as that enjoyed by his \nyounger brother James.\n\nThe next few years of his life are poorly documented. Owen and Pilbeam claim\nthat \"Some time after 1738 (when Roy was 12) he moved to Edinburgh and gained experience of surveying and making plans, probably as a civilian draughtsman at the office of the Board of Ordnance at Edinburgh Castle.\" It is possible that he may have been employed there as a boy because it was normal procedure for the board to employ \"cadets\" aged ten or eleven who were trained to become civilian surveyors and draughtsmen. Roy was certainly associated with the board by 1746 (aged 20), for he was the author of an official map of Culloden made soon after the battle.\n\nAs an employee of the board he would have come to notice of Lieutenant-Colonel David Watson, Deputy Quartermaster-General of the Military District of North Britain for the board, whose headquarters was in Edinburgh. The terms of Roy's employment are unknown but must have some opportunity to undertake private surveys for he was reported as a respected land surveyor employed by the Callander family at their Craigforth estate near Stirling prior to his work for the military.\n\nRoy maintained his connections to his birthplace and the people living there. A servant for the Lockharts of Lee recalled his visits there over time, as his national reputation grew. She noted that at first he would dine in the servants hall, in later years he would dine with the family, and later still he would be seated at the right hand of the Laird.\n\nIn 1747 Lieutenant-Colonel David Watson, Deputy Quartermaster-General, proposed the compilation of a map of the Scottish Highlands to facilitate the subjugation of the clans following the Jacobite rising of 1745.\nIn response, King George II commissioned a military survey of the Highlands, and Watson was placed in charge, under the command of the Duke of Cumberland, but it fell to Roy \"to begin, and afterwards to have a considerable share in, the execution of that map\", now known as \"The Duke of Cumberland's Map\".\n\nRoy was without any military rank at this \ntime \nbut Watson appointed him as an assistant to the quartermaster to provide him some seniority over the group of (typically) six soldiers who travelled with him: an NCO, two end markers, two chainmen and a batman.\nFrom 1749 he was joined by another five junior surveyors for various periods of time: notable among these young assistants were Paul Sandby (born 1731), later renowned for his watercolour landscapes, and a seventeen-year-old David Dundas (born 1735), later Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces.\n\nEventually there were six teams conducting surveys by traverses of the country with the objects to the side of the line recorded by sketches and compass directions. The Highlands were covered by 1752, but the survey was extended to the lowlands for another three years, until 1755, when most of the engineer surveyors were posted to war stations. In the introduction to the 1885 account of the measurement of the Hounslow baseline Roy writes that the map remained \"in an unfinished state ... and is to be considered as a magnificent military sketch rather than a very accurate map of a country ... (and) it would have been completed, and many of its imperfections no doubt remedied, but for the breaking out of war in 1755.\"\nThe eighty-four original field sheets and the thirty-eight divisions of the \"fair-protraction\"are held in the British Museum together with a small index map and a reduced map of the whole country in a single sheet published as \"the King's map\". It is now possible to view the map online.\n\nThroughout the Survey of Scotland, Roy was a civilian assistant to David Watson the deputy quartermaster-general, but in 1755 the survey was terminated by the outbreak of the Seven Years' War with France and the consequent redeployment of personnel to more pressing posts in both the regular army and the Board of Ordnance. In the same year the engineers of the board were formed into the Corps of Engineers. The board officers were members of both structures, for they would be deployed with the army regiments for specialist duties.\n\nIn 1776 Roy was commissioned as a lieutenant in the 53rd Foot, a new regiment formed in 1755. At the same time he was appointed as a practitioner-engineer, the lowest rank in the Board of Ordnance survey department, and ensign in the Corps of Engineers. \nThereafter Roy was promoted steadily, and rapidly, in both structures, but his army rank was always greater than his board rank. For example, he was lieutenant-colonel in the army by 1762 and director and lieutenant-colonel of the Engineers in 1783. He is best known by his army rank of major-general, which he attained in 1781.\n\nOn the termination of the Scottish survey Roy, now under the jurisdiction of two military bodies, was posted in 1756 to the South of England where he was engaged, together with Watson and Dundas, in inspecting the readiness of coastal military installations in preparation for an expected French invasion. This work involved Roy in the production of plans of fortifications and rough maps of stretches of the south coast: examples are a sketch of the country from Gloucester to Pembroke, with Milford Haven and a sketch of the country betwixt Guildford and Canterbury. These sketches are preserved in the British Library.\n\nBy 1757 Roy was with his regiment in France for the Rochefort expedition and then in Germany for the Battle of Minden in 1759. His technical abilities and willingness to innovate brought him to the favourable attention of his commanders. Preparatory to the battle, the various military engineers made drawings of each step of the coming battle, with each step drawn on a different sheet of paper. The commander could then study the course of the battle before it occurred, going from one sheet to the next. Lieutenant Roy, however, made his drawings on a single sheet with coordinated and accurate overlays, so that the commander could more easily study the course of the battle by examining a single sheet of paper. The commander's comprehension was greatly facilitated, and Roy's methodology was soon adopted as an advancement in military science. Thereafter his promotion was rapid, and by the end of the war in 1763 Roy was a lieutenant colonel in the regiment and director of the engineers of the Board of Ordnance as well as being the deputy quartermaster general for Germany.\n\nAt the conclusion of the war in 1763 Roy returned to London, where he was based for the rest of his life. The threatened French invasion of the south coast had never materialised, but he felt strongly that the reconnaissances he had made with Watson at the outbreak of the war should be extended to a national survey, not just of the vulnerable south but the whole of the British Isles. He never ceased to champion this cause, but the expense of the Seven Years' War and then the American War of Independence excluded any expenditure on trigonometrical surveys for another twenty years.\n\nIn 1765 he was appointed surveyor-general under a royal warrant which directed him \"to inspect, survey and make reports from time to time of the state of the coasts of this Kingdom and the islands thereunto belonging.\" This work, which took him to many parts of Britain and abroad (Ireland and Gibraltar), is recorded in the many plans and sketch maps of districts that are now lodged at the British Library.\n\nDespite the travel Roy was able to enter fully into the intellectual life of London, and in 1767 he became a fellow of the Royal Society. The only paper he read before the society was in 1783 on \"Rules for measuring heights with a barometer\". Roy was promoted to colonel in 1777, and to major-general in 1781. He was in charge of the departments of the Quartermaster-General and Chief Engineer in 1782, and in 1783 became the director of Royal Engineers.\n\nLate in life, when he was 57, Roy was granted the opportunity to establish his lasting reputation in the world of geodesy. The opening came from a completely unexpected direction. In 1783 the Comte de Cassini addressed a memoir to the Royal Society in which he expressed grave reservations of the measurements of latitude and longitude which had been undertaken at Greenwich Observatory. He suggested that the correct values might be found by combining the Paris Observatory figures with a precise trigonometric survey between the two observatories. \nSir Joseph Banks, president of the Royal Society, proposed that Roy should lead the project. Roy accepted with enthusiasm for he saw that apart from the specific measurements proposed the survey could be the first step towards the national survey that he had advocated so often. The whole project is described by Roy in three major contributions to the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society in \n1785,\n1787 and\n1790.\nThere are shorter accounts of the project in the \"History of the Royal Engineers\",\nthe records of the Royal Society\nand in every history of the Ordnance Survey.\nAfter a preliminary survey by Roy and three other members of the Society on 16 April, they found a suitable location for the starting baseline on Hounslow Heath, between King's Arbour and Hampton Poor-house just over 5 miles to the south-east. A preliminary measurement of the line was carried out with a steel chain prepared by Jesse Ramsden. It was the intention to measure more accurately with a set of three deal rods about 20 ft. in length but their use had to be abandoned because of their susceptibility to lengthen and shorten in wet weather. The deal rods were replaced by one-inch-thick glass tubes of the same length. The final measurement gives the length of the base as 27404.7 ft. to an accuracy of about 3 inches in 5 miles (or about 1/100,000). The precision of this baseline measurement far exceeded any previous attempts, and in recognition Roy was awarded the Copley medal by the Royal Society in 1785.\nThe triangulation itself was delayed until 1787 when Ramsden supplied a new theodolite of unsurpassed accuracy: it could measure angles to within one arc second and therefore detect the curvature of the Earth by measuring the \nspherical excess of the triangles of the survey. By the end of that year he had completed measurements at all but two of the trigonometric stations. Many of the measurements, particularly the cross channel sightings, were taken at night using intense flares (handled by the artillery). Others required the placing of the instrument on church towers, or even on scaffolded steeples, and in their absence it was sometimes necessary to use a specially constructed portable tower some 30 feet high.\n\nThe final report of 1790 presents figures for the distance between Paris and Greenwich as well as the precise latitude, longitude and height of the British triangulation stations. Throughout the survey Roy took every opportunity to fix the position of as many landmarks as possible and these formed the basis of the topographic surveys from which new maps could be prepared. Roy died when only three pages of his final report remained to be proofed.\n\nRoy's use of scientific advancements and accurate mathematical formulas paved the way for modern geodesic surveying. His tenure and his work are the dividing line between older, approximate mappings and newer, highly accurate ones in Britain. He is cited repeatedly in early nineteenth century mathematics textbooks for his use of spherical trigonometry in surveying. \nEarly twentieth century technical books on modern surveying and geodesy include Roy's work as the historical starting point for the modern profession. Perhaps his greatest legacy of all was the work of the Ordnance Survey which commenced in 1791, one year after his death, by extending the basic Anglo-French Survey (1784–1790) to the rest of Great Britain over the following sixty years.\n\nDuring the Scottish Survey, Roy took careful note of the locations of ancient Roman remains, primarily military camps, wherever he encountered them and these were all marked precisely on the map sheets. This was the beginning of a lifelong interest in ancient Scottish history which he pursued whenever he was travelling the country in his capacity as Surveyor General. \nRoy's maps and his drawings of the relics of the Roman presence in Scotland were immediately seen as credible and valuable. For sites where the Roman remains were later destroyed by human development, his drawings are the only reliable record of their existence.\nRoy was the first to systematically map the Antonine Wall and provide accurate and detailed drawings of its remains, an effort undertaken in 1764.\n\nRoy's only historical work, \"Military Antiquities of the Romans in Britain\" was published posthumously in 1793. \nThis book has a mixed reputation. His drawings and maps are held in the highest regard as still-valuable research sources. However, his efforts in the scholarly discussion of history are widely held to be without value, largely through no fault of his own. This was due to his belief that the spurious text of Charles Bertram \"De Situ Britanniae\" was a genuine work, a view shared by virtually all of his contemporaries. Roy consequently adjusted his perspective to be consistent with the history as told in the fraud, causing his own conclusions to be without a valid foundation. Much of Roy's research was devoted to the attempt to follow fictitious journeys throughout Scotland that were described in \"De Situ Britanniae\".\n\nThat Roy's considerable talents were partially wasted is a tragedy. He was a Scot with a lifelong interest in ancient Scottish history, and his technical ability and scientific knowledge made him uniquely qualified to provide information in an area of history where knowledge and understanding are minimal. That loss for Scottish history has been bemoaned by Scottish historians. In his introduction to \"Celtic Scotland\", Skene deprecates those historical works based on \"De Situ\", including Roy's, but adds for him alone the comment that \" ... perhaps more to be regretted, the valuable work of General Roy ...\"\n\n\nThe British Library holds a large collection of Roy's works (at Maps K.Top.48.25-1.a-f.); plans of Roman camps, plans of fortifications and maps of surveys conducted by himself are others. All of these works show Roy to have been an exceptionally neat and capable draughtsman. The principal items include\n\n\n"}
