{"id": "35969944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35969944", "title": "Administrative division codes of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Administrative division codes of the People's Republic of China\n\nAdministrative division codes of the People's Republic of China identify administrative divisions of the PRC at county level and above. They are published by the National Bureau of Statistics of the People's Republic of China with the latest version issued on September 30, 2015.\n\nReading from left to right, administrative division codes contain the following information:\n\nDivision codes for statistic use consist of administrative division codes and another 6 digits, identify administrative divisions of the PRC at village level and above.\nFor example, 110102 007 003, 110102 refers to Xicheng District, Beijing, 007 refers to Yuetan Subdistrict and 003 refers to Yuetan Community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24875315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24875315", "title": "Administrative divisions of Tajikistan", "text": "Administrative divisions of Tajikistan\n\nAdministratively, Tajikistan is divided into:\n"}
{"id": "35273939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35273939", "title": "Aleutian Ridge", "text": "Aleutian Ridge\n\nThe Aleutian Ridge is located in the western part of the Aleutian Arc in the Bering Sea. \n\nIt consists of a chain of volcanic islands located along the crest of a submarine ridge with most of the active Quaternary stratocones or caldera-like volcanoes located on the northern boundaries of the Aleutian Islands. \n"}
{"id": "9390304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9390304", "title": "Aurel Krause", "text": "Aurel Krause\n\nAurel Krause (December 30, 1848 – March 14, 1908) was a German geographer known today for his early ethnography of the Tlingit Indians of southeast Alaska, published in 1885.\n\nKrause was born in Polnisch Konopath near Schwetz, West Prussia. \nHe and his brother Arthur Krause were employed by the Geographical Society of Bremen in Germany when they conducted ethnological research in Siberia, followed by Aurel Krause's mostly solo research with the Tlingit of Klukwan, Alaska, in 1881 and 1882.\n\n"}
{"id": "44218961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44218961", "title": "Bucks Lake Game Reserve", "text": "Bucks Lake Game Reserve\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22182057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22182057", "title": "Cap of the North", "text": "Cap of the North\n\nThe Cap of the North (\"Nordkalotten\" in Norwegian and Swedish, or \"Pohjoiskalotti\" in Finnish) consists of the counties Finnmark, Nordland and Troms in Norway, Norrbotten County in Sweden, Lapland/Lappi Region in Finland and Murmansk Oblast in Russia.\n\nThis area is roughly equal to the parts of Fennoscandia (including the Kola Peninsula in Russia) lying north of the Arctic Circle. The region has a subarctic climate and is home to the majority of the Sámi people.\n\nHistorian Per Guttorm Kvenanger has criticized the term \"Nordkalotten\" for displacing the overlapping term Sápmi and hiding the \"Sami character\" of northern Fennoscandia.\n"}
{"id": "2695836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2695836", "title": "Dembiya", "text": "Dembiya\n\nDembiya (Amharic: ደምቢያ, \"dembīyā\"; also transliterated Dembea, Dambya, Dembya, Dambiya, etc.) is a historic region of Ethiopia, intimately linked with Lake Tana. According to the account of Manuel de Almeida, Dembiya was \"bounded on East by Begemder, on South by Gojjam, on West by Agaws of Achefer and Tangha. Lake Tsana, formerly called Dambaya, is in this region.\" Alexander Murray, in his preface to the third volume of Bruce's account, further describes it as \"on the east it includes Foggora, Dara, and Alata; on the north-east Gondar, the metropolis, and the rich district beneath it; on the southwest, the district of Bed (the plain barren country) and, on the west, the lands around Waindaga and Dingleber.\"\n\nDembiya was incorporated into the Begemder province (which previously only included lands to the east of Lake Tana) during the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie, and in 1996 became a woreda of the Amhara Region.\n"}
{"id": "19595283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19595283", "title": "Development region", "text": "Development region\n\nDevelopment region is a designation for a territorial entity.\n\nIt is used for:\n"}
{"id": "6281372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6281372", "title": "Districts of the British Virgin Islands", "text": "Districts of the British Virgin Islands\n\nThe five administrative subdivisions mentioned on some web pages are just statistical divisions, without any administrative relevance:\n\nThe \"Other Islands\" are mainly the islands south of Tortola (separated from it by the Sir Francis Drake Channel and southwest of Virgin Gorda and detached Ginger Island, mainly Norman Island, Peter Island, Cooper Island and Salt Island. These islands are also known under the informal name Little Sisters or \"Southern Islands\".\n\nThe present-day Administrative Districts of the British Virgin Islands were established since 2003, following the provisions of the Sister Islands Programme, 2003.\n\nTortola, the surrounding islets, and the Little Sisters/Southern Islands are directly administered by the BVI Government, as an \"Island\". The 3 \"Sister Islands\", including the neighbouring islets, are administered through 3 Districts, run by District Officers, under the Deputy Governor of the BVI \"in order to monitor, promote and facilitate the delivery of Government services to the sister islands of Virgin Gorda, Anegada, and Jost Van Dyke\". This administrative setting is similar to that of some existing or former British dependencies - The Bahamas, Turks and Caicos Islands, or the Cook Islands - among others.\n\nThe Sister Islands Programme, 2003, establishes a Coordinator which works with, and supervises the District Officers, as a liaison with the central government. \nThere are no local government structures in the Territory.\n\nThere are six Civil Registry Districts in the British Virgin Islands:\nCivil Registry Districts C, D and E are subdivisions of the main island Tortola.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043284", "title": "Geodetic control network", "text": "Geodetic control network\n\nA geodetic control network (also geodetic network, reference network, control point network, or control network) is a network, often of triangles, which are measured precisely by techniques of terrestrial surveying or by satellite geodesy.\n\nA geodetic control network consists of stable, identifiable points with published datum values derived from observations that tie the points together.\n\nClassically, a control is divided into horizontal (X-Y) and vertical (Z) controls (components of the control), however with the advent of satellite navigation systems, GPS in particular, this division is becoming obsolete.\n\nMany organizations contribute information to the geodetic control network.\n\nThe higher-order (high precision, usually millimeter-to-decimeter on a scale of continents) control points are normally defined in both space and time using global or space techniques, and are used for \"lower-order\" points to be tied into. The lower-order control points are normally used for engineering, construction and navigation. The scientific discipline that deals with the establishing of coordinates of points in a high-order control network is called geodesy, and the technical discipline that does the same for points in a low-order control network is called surveying.\n\nAfter a cartographer registers key points in a digital map to the real world coordinates of those points on the ground, the map is then said to be \"in control\". Having a base map and other data in geodetic control means that they will overlay correctly.\n\nWhen map layers are not in control, it requires extra work to adjust them to line up, which introduces additional error.\nThose real world coordinates are generally in some particular map projection, unit, and geodetic datum.\n\nIn \"classical geodesy\" (up to the sixties) control networks were established by triangulation using measurements of angles and of some spare distances. The precise orientation to the geographic north is achieved through methods of geodetic astronomy. The principal instruments used are theodolites and tacheometers, which nowadays are equipped with infrared distance measuring, data bases, communication systems and partly by satellite links.\n\nElectronic distance measurement (EDM) was introduced around 1960, when the prototype instruments became small enough to be used in the field. Instead of using only sparse and much less accurate distance measurements some control networks was established or updated by using trilateration more accurate distance measurements than was previously possible and no angle measurements.\n\nEDM increased network accuracies up to 1:1 million (1 cm per 10 km; today at least 10 times better), and made surveying less costly.\n\nThe geodetic use of satellites began around the same time. By using bright satellites like Echo I, Echo II and Pageos, global networks were determined, which later provided support for the theory of plate tectonics.\n\nAnother important improvement was the introduction of radio and electronic satellites like Geos A and B (1965–70), of the Transit system (Doppler effect) 1967-1990 — which was the predecessor of GPS - and of laser techniques like Lageos (USA) or Starlette (F). Despite the use of spacecraft, small networks for cadastral and technical projects are mainly measured terrestrially, but in many cases incorporated in national and global networks by satellite geodesy.\n\nNowadays, several hundred geodetic satellites are in orbit, supplemented by a large number of remote sensing satellites and navigation systems like GPS and Glonass, which will be followed by the European Galileo satellites in 2020.\n\nWhile these developments have made satellite-based geodetic network surveying more flexible and cost effective than its terrestrial equivalent, the continued existence of fixed point networks is still needed for administrative and legal purposes on local and regional scales. Global geodetic networks cannot be defined to be fixed, since geodynamics are continuously changing the position of all continents by 2 to 20 cm per year. Therefore, modern global networks like ETRS89 or ITRF show not only coordinates of their \"fixed points\", but also their annual velocities.\n\n"}
{"id": "57722199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57722199", "title": "Geology of Ascension Island", "text": "Geology of Ascension Island\n\nThe geology of Ascension Island is the geologically young, exposed part of a large volcano, 80 kilometers west of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. The island formed within the last six to seven million years and is primarily mafic rock with some felsic rock. \n\nGeologists debate the exact origins of the island and some have proposed that Ascension Island may overly a diverted shallow mantle plume. Alternately, the island may have originated from anomalously enriched magma, originally at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, but now situated to the west of it. \n\nThe petrology of Ascension is unusual. Compared to most other volcanic islands, which only have a few mafic and felsic endmembers such as basalt or rhyolite, Ascension has a full-range from some of the most mafic to most felsic. This includes basalt, hawaiite, mugearite, benmoreite,trachyte and rhyolite.\nPotassium-argon dating indicates that the oldest rocks exposed above the water are one million year old rhyolites. Geologists have divided the island's mafic and felsic rocks into different named sequences and sub-divided mafic rocks based on their ratio of zirconium and niobium. \n\nThe Sister's Peak region in northwest Ascension has intermediate mafic lava flows, scoria cones and mafic ash fall deposits near Long Beach. The flows formed approximately 829,000 years ago and range between basalt, hawaiite and mugearite compositions. Benmoreite flows outcrop near Long Bay and west of Lady Hill. Additionally, benmoreite cinder cones are found near Broken Tooth and Hollow Tooth.\n\nThe Eastern Felsic Complex (EFC), in northeastern Ascension has a ring-shape geometry with felsic flows and pyroclastic deposits. Rocks in the EFC constitute trachyte, rhyolite and formations such as lava domes and thick flows. Pyroclastics exhibit a blend of ash and pumice. These rocks formed approximately 517,000 years ago. \n\nThe Devil's Inkpot lava flows formed from a fissure around the same time as the Sister's Peak region 829,000 years ago. Bentmoreite scoria cones record evidence of mafic volcanism, although older rhyolite and trachye flows, domes and pyroclastic deposits point to felsic eruptions as well. \n\nThe Central Felsic Complex (CFC), centers on Green Mountain and Middleton Ridge and is older than the Eastern Felsic Complex. Here, ash is typically welded together and breccia is laden with rhyolite and obsidian fragments. Middleton Ridge formed more than one million years ago and is accompanied trachyte and rhyolite flows. By comparison, Green Mountain formed as recently as 395,000 years ago with trachyte flows and pyroclastics grouped around a mafic scoria cone. \n\nThe scoria hosts pluton xenoliths. \n\nThe 758,000 year old intermediate bentmoreite lava flows of southwest Ascension are interspersed with scoria cones and periodically mafic ash falls. \n\nThe South Coast of Ascension has old, highly mafic lava flows. Bentmoreite flows are most common, although a basalt flow outcrops in Crystal Bay, a mafic scoria cone forms Ragged Hill and trachyte outcrops immediately south of the hill. \n"}
{"id": "27723115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27723115", "title": "Geology of Singapore", "text": "Geology of Singapore\n\nIgneous rocks are found in Bukit Timah, Woodlands, and Pulau Ubin island. Granite makes up the bulk of the igneous rock. Gabbro is also found in the area and is found in an area called Little Guilin, named for its resemblance to Guilin in Southern China. This area is in Bukit Gombak. Sedimentary rocks are found on the western part of Singapore, and is mainly made of sandstone and mudstones. It also includes the southwestern area. Metamorphic rocks are found in the northeastern part of Singapore, and also on Pulau Tekong, off the east coast of Singapore. The rocks are mainly made up of quartzite, and also make up the Sajahat Formation.\n\nThe following are the list of local geology:\n\n"}
{"id": "59011468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59011468", "title": "Geology of Sint Eustatius", "text": "Geology of Sint Eustatius\n\nThe geology of Sint Eustatius represents a young Pleistocene volcanic island. The oldest rocks are overlain by the Sugar Loaf-White Wall Formation shallow marine limestone. The Quill is the island's highest point and although partially eroded records a pyroclastic volcano with a two kilometer wide crater.\n"}
{"id": "57698452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57698452", "title": "Geology of Somaliland", "text": "Geology of Somaliland\n\nThe geology of Somaliland is very closely related to the geology of Somalia. Somaliland is a de facto independent country within the boundaries that the international community recognizes as Somalia. Because it encompasses the former territory of British Somaliland, the region is historically better researched than former Italian Somaliland. Somaliland is built on more than 700 million year old igneous and metamorphic crystalline basement rock.. These ancient units are covered in thick layers of sedimentary rock formed in the last 200 million years and influenced by the rifting apart of the Somali Plate and the Arabian Plate. \n\nThe oldest rock units in Somaliland date back over 700 million years to the Proterozoic, forming crystalline basement rock. Many rock units date to the Mesozoic and the current Cenozoic eons. \n\nSomaliland preserves good examples of Proterozoic rocks. As basement rocks, they form a composite terrane, with younger rocks in the east and older rocks in the west. The older rocks pre-date the Pan-African orogeny and were affected by both igneous and metamorphic activity 840, 800 to 760 and 720 million years ago.\nThe early geology of Somaliland is divided into four major events. The Qabri Bahar complex formed in the Paleoproterozoic through the Mesoproterozoic with mafic and granitoid rocks, as well as rocks metamorphosed up to granulite grade in the sequence of metamorphic facies. Some geologists propose that the Qabri Bahar complex may preserve rocks from before the Pan-African orogeny. Major Event II, more than 700 million years ago, marked deformation, partial melting (also known as anataxis and rocks metamorphosed up to amphibolite grade. \n\nMajor Event III happened 700 to 640 million years ago, bringing crustal thinning and extension, mafic volcanism in the Abdulkadir complex and Mait complex, regional heating, metamorphism and the emplacement of gabbro and syenite through the thinned crust. Major Event IV continued for 100 million years, from 600 to 500 million years ago, spanning into the Paleozoic Era of the Phanerozoic Eon. Granites were emplaced and the deposition of the low-grade, metasedimentary Inda Ad sequence occurred, followed by more deformation and regional heating. \n\nThe sequence of events in Somaliland in the Proterozoic correlates with the Arabian-Nubian Shield to the north, which experienced igneous activity related to subduction and witnessed the formation of marginal basins and island arcs. \n\nIn the Early Jurassic, the supercontinent Gondwana, which included Africa, began to break apart. The marine transgression of the Tethys Ocean flooded large parts of East Africa and Arabia and new sedimentary rock units were deposited. In the west of Somaliland, the Cretaceous at the end of the Mesozoic brought crustal upwarping, which is preserved in the Yesomma Sandstone. \n\nBasins formed due to the movements of India, Madagascar and East Africa and the opening of the Indian Ocean. The Late Jurassic through the Cretaceous left marl and ammonite fossils, from an open sea environment, followed by shales and belemnite fossils from an epicontinental sea. \n\nSedimentation continued in the Cenozoic. Deposition of the Yesomma Sandstone continued until another regional marine transgression in the Middle Eocene. The opening of the Gulf of Aden created brackish basins, which filled with marine deposits in the Miocene and Oligocene. Outcrops of these rock units are limited to a few coastal areas in Somaliland, but rapid faulting created offshore basins with up to two kilometers of sediments from the late Cenozoic. In fact, Cenozoic sediments cover much of Somaliland. \n\nThe formation of the Somali Plate began 60 million years ago and accelerated at the end of the Oligocene, approximately 23 million years ago. As the Arabian Plate and Somali Plate rifted apart, forming the Gulf of Aden through sea floor spreading in the Late Miocene magma intruded between the two plates. \n\nOf particular significance for Somaliland, rifting in the Oligocene and Miocene reactivated Mesozoic normal faults, forming the Guban Basin. The basin is situated within a topographic high, known as the Somaliland escarpment and is filled with up to three kilometers of Late Cretaceous and Cenozoic sedimentary rocks. In places within the basin, the Late Cretaceous Jesomma sandstone is overlain by the eroded remnants of the Eocene Taleh Anhydrite. The basin contains shale, limestone, mudstone, sandstone and evaporite. \n\nDozens of springs have been in Somaliland, where they are more common in karst aquifers. Most people in Somaliland get their drinking water from aquifers, although poor quality water often means that boreholes go abandoned. \n\nThe Eocene Karkar Limestone, Auradu Limestone and Taalex Limestone are important karstic aquifers in Somaliland and Puntland, along with thick, unconsolidated sediment aquifers up to 100 meters thick formed in the past 2.5 million years of the Quaternary in wadi locations throughout the county. Fractured Pleistocene basalt flows, particularly near Las Dhure and Agabar have potential as aquifers. The Yesomma Sandstone is a high productivity aquifer.\n\nFourteen water utilities serve towns in Somaliland and neighboring Puntland, although at least 750,000 people on the outskirts of Hargeisa lack piped water. \n\nMining is not a significant part of the economy of Somaliland. During British administration of Somaliland, geologists Thompson and Bell launched initial hydrocarbon research in 1918. The Anglo-Persian Oil Company initiated a large scale mapping project of the Guban Basin in 1920. \n\nComprehensive geologic reports were made available in 1954 by the Geological Survey of British Somaliland and Somaliland Oil Exploration Company. Relatively few studies have been published since Somali independence in 1960. As of 2015, 11 wells had been drilled offshore and two onshore. Studies resumed in the 1980s and 1990s and in some cases, small oil plays were found in the Jesummah sandstone. Hydrocarbon research on the basin remains ongoing. \n"}
{"id": "5567820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5567820", "title": "Governor of Jakarta", "text": "Governor of Jakarta\n\nJakarta is administratively equal to a province with special status as the capital of Indonesia. Executive head of Jakarta is a governor, instead of a mayor. The Governor of Jakarta is an elected politician who, along with Deputy Governor and 106 members of People's regional representative council (DPRD), is accountable for the strategic government of Jakarta.\n\nGoverning system of Jakarta has changed throughout its history. On March 5, 1942, Japanese occupied Batavia from the Dutch control and the city was named Jakarta (, in accordance with the special status that was assigned to the city). After the collapse of Japan, Indonesian nationalists who declared independence on August 17, 1945, the government of Jakarta City was changed from the Japanese into the Jakarta National Administration in September,1945. After the war, the Dutch name Batavia was internationally recognized until full Indonesian independence was achieved on December 27, 1949 and Jakarta was officially proclaimed the national capital of Indonesia. Based on the \"Act No. 5 of 1974\" relating to the Fundamentals of Regional Government, Jakarta was confirmed as the capital of Indonesia and one of Indonesia's 26 provinces in 1974 at that time.\n\nThis first government was held by a mayor until the end of 1960, when the office was changed to that of a governor. The last mayor of Jakarta was Sudiro, until he was replaced by Dr Sumarno as governor of the province. In August 2007, Jakarta held its first ever election to choose a governor, whereas previously the city's governors were elected by members of DPRD. The poll is part of a country-wide decentralisation drive, allowing for direct local elections in several areas. Elections for governor and deputy governor are held for a fixed five-year term. \n\nThe most recent election was held in Jakarta on 15 February 2017. There were 3 contesting pairs in that election, but no one obtained 50% of the vote. As per law, a runoff election was held between the top two pairs on 19 April, 2017. The official results of the election is Anies Baswedan - Sandiaga Uno won the election with 57.96% of vote defeating Basuki Tjahaja Purnama - Djarot Saiful Hidayat, who got 42.04% of the vote. \n\nBelow is a list of Mayors and Governors who have held office in the regional government district of Jakarta in Indonesia after Indonesian independence in 1945.\nAt certain times, acting governors have replaced governors who have taken leave, for example to campaign for re-election or for other offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "12490863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12490863", "title": "Greenskeeper", "text": "Greenskeeper\n\nA greenskeeper is a person responsible for the care and upkeep of a golf course or a sport turf playing surface.\n\nA professional who maintains a golf course's or country club's grounds. This includes all cultural practices along with setting of pins and marking of hazards for regular club play along with tournament play. Greenskeepers work under the direction of the Golf Course Superintendent or Director of Golf Course Operations. For a greenskeeper, it is more important to have experience and capability than formal education.\n\nGreenskeepers measure the \"speed\" of golf greens with a stimpmeter. The stimpmeter is used to compare green speed within a facility to ensure consistency. Stimpmeter readings should not be used to compare one facility with another; many factors, including design, undulation and grass type affect green speed. The tool measures how fast a green allows the golf ball to travel. A greenskeeper can increase the speed of the green by mowing the grass shorter, mowing more than once in multiple directions, or by topdressing the green with a small amount of fine sand to alter the putting surface.\n\nSetting pins and tee markers is the one part of the job that differ from the job of other groundskeepers and horticulturists. Otherwise, most groundskeeping tasks are nearly the same.\n\nMany people who have played golf, know that the hole and pin (flag) on a green are moved routinely. When setting or moving the pins on greens, a greenskeeper must think about these factors all together.\n\n\nIn most cases, the greenskeeper that sets the greens pins also moves and sets the tee markers. The tee markers are the pieces stuck in the ground that mark the line from which to tee-off or strike the golf ball. If a greenskeeper moves all the tee markers to the back of the tees and then, in addition, moves all the holes and pins to the back of the green, the accumulation of total yards to cover would be drastically increased.\n\nAlmost every golf course is measured and rated according to yards/distance. Because of this, it is wise to keep the accumulative yardage for daily play close to the rating for the course. There is no total number of yards to guide greenskeepers for each day's moving of the pins. It's a judgement call, an estimation. \n\nA course should be measured from the medal plate (furthest distance possible on each hole, minus approx 2 yards from rear of the tee to allow for backswing) of the tee to the centre of the golf green following the center of the fairways. The actual distance of the hole may be slightly longer, with a pin at the rear of the green, but golfers should check scorecards or stroke-savers to find the depth of the green to aid club selection. \n\nIf a greenskeeper sets several golf green pins back behind the center of the green, it's logical and reasonable to set some other greens pins in front of the green center, on the fairway side.\n\nIn similar fashion – not in reference to yardage – some pins should be placed on the left of the green, some on the right, and a few in the center in regards to left and right placement.\n\nFor general daily golf play, some pin placements should be easy, some medium and some hard. The closer the pin is to the fairway does not mean an easier shot, especially if there is a bunker (sand trap) immediately in front of the green. In that case, the rear of the green may be the easier pin placement even though the distance is greater.\n\nLearning the layout of a golf course helps for setting both the pins and the tee markers. If all the tee markers and greens pins are set on the right, that will bring the trees on the right side into play. If all tee markers and greens pins are set on the left, that brings the trees on the left into play.\n\nThe trees on the left, and the trees on the right, affect different players. Some players \"SLICE\" the ball to the right. Some golfers \"HOOK\" the golf ball to the left. A slice or hook are when the ball's path curves in flight after it is hit.\n\nSince some players may chronically hit the ball to the left or to the right, it's only fair to give a near equal advantage to every player. So a greenskeeper should bring trees into play from both the right and left sides of the tees, fairways and greens. This is controlled by the setting and position of the tee markers, golf, green holes, and pins.\n\nAs much as possible, a pin should be set in an upright or \"PLUMB\" position. Plumb is at 90 degrees to a level or horizontal plane. A golf green pin should not be perpendicular to the green surface because a green surface is not usually level. If the pin is set at a 90 degree angle to what we would consider a \"level line\", then a golfer can look down the fairway and see how drastic or how little a green surface deviates from a level surface.\n\nPlacing pins is done by \"feel\" and experience. Typically, a greenskeeper lets the weight of the cup cutting tool dangle so that gravity makes it vertical and plumb. Then the greenskeeper twists the handles to slice the round cutting cylinder into the green while trying to keep the tool in a vertical position. After the tool cuts in, it lifts a cylindrical core out of the new hole. This core of soil is saved to repair the old or previous hole after the cup is snagged and lifted out. Once the old hole is plugged with the soil and turf core, the greenskeeper places the cup into the new hole.\n\nThe greenskeeper then sets a round gadget called a cup-setter onto the cup and presses it down. This sets the top of the cup below the green's surface by about 1\" according to golf standards. If the cup is located too high, a golf ball may roll into the hole and ride the rim of the cup, then roll back out. By setting the cup down properly, a ball should stay in the golf green hole.\n\nBecause the green wears around the hole from daily putting and play, the new greens pin location should be located at least 12' to 20' away from the previous one. The wear and tear can mean moving the greens pin daily during summer time golf play. In summer, if a pin is left in the same spot for a few days, the turf can be practically destroyed.\n\nIt is okay to place a golf hole on a slope. If a ball is putted uphill toward a golf hole and pin, if the ball stops rolling uphill before it goes in the hole, that ball should stop in place and not roll back downhill again. If the ball is hit uphill and then rolls back downhill, that slope is too steep for a golf pin placement.\n\nVarious tournaments, men's clubs and women's clubs, may have their rules, but in general, a golf green pin should not be placed closer to the golf green's edge than about 8' to 10'.\n\nNever hit a ball onto the green when a greenskeeper is there unless they clearly motion for you to do so. Generally, golfers have the right of way on a golf course, and workers will wait or yield to players. But if a greenskeeper is on the green, and the pin is out, they have the right of way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37618207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37618207", "title": "Heritage structures in Chennai", "text": "Heritage structures in Chennai\n\nChennai, with historically rich records dating from the British era, houses 2,467 heritage buildings within its metropolitan area (CMA), the highest within any Metropolitan Area limit in India. Most of these buildings are around 200 years old and older. Some of them are Chennai Central, Chennai Egmore, Ripon Building, Bharat Insurance Building, and so forth. Chennai is home to the second largest collection of heritage buildings in the country, after Kolkata. The official list of heritage buildings was compiled by the Justice E. Padmanabhan committee.\n\nThe structures will be categorised into three grades, namely, Grades I, II, and III. Grade I structures will be prime landmarks upon which no alterations will be permitted. Under Grade II, external changes on structures will be subject to scrutiny. Buildings under Grade III may be changed for 'adaptive reuse' with suitable internal and external changes.\n\nHeritage buildings are defined as notified structures of historical, architectural, or cultural significance. The heritage activism in the city began with the erstwhile Moore Market building fire in 1985. In 1997, the state government initiated action to conserve heritage buildings. In 1998, a committee headed by Director of Town and Country Planning was constituted by the government to investigate aspects related to enactment of the Heritage Act. In 1999, the committee submitted the draft of Tamil Nadu Heritage Conservation Act. In the same year, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) constituted a Heritage Conservation Committee to draft regulations to conserve heritage buildings and precincts in the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA). After the second master plan for the city was approved by the government on 2 September 2008, special rules for conservation of heritage buildings/precincts came into force. In 2010, the criteria for listing the heritage structures in the CMA region was finalised, and in 2011, the process of assessment and documentation of heritage structures began. A 17-member Heritage Commission was set up on May 2012 to maintain these structures, after a fire accident in Kalas Mahal, a 244-year-old heritage building in front of Marina beach. As per the Commission's mandate, heritage buildings that are listed will get incentives, such as exemption from payment of taxes, and offenders who deface or destroy them will face penal action.\n\nIn 2012, a list of heritage buildings was released by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) under the heritage conservation committee's (HCC) supervision. Criteria considered for notification as heritage structure include period of construction, exhibited trend, events or persons associated with the structure, and design, style, designer, physical condition, and design integrity for architecturally significant buildings. The CMDA was expected to clear the first list of 70 heritage buildings compiled by the HCC. However, in 2013, the process of notification was delayed after 65 owners objected to the inclusion of their premises in the list. The Heritage Conservation Committee, however, overruled their objections. Of the structures/precincts that figure on the list, 42 are government buildings and the remaining are private ones. The government buildings include the main building of the College of Engineering Guindy under Anna University, Madras High Court, General Post Office, Music and Dance College, Government Teacher Training Institute at Saidapet, and King Institute of Preventive Medicine. Theosophical Society is one of the private premises that are expected to get listed as a heritage structure. When a building is notified as a heritage structure, the onus of repair and maintenance of the heritage structure will be on the structure's owner. In July 2018, documentation of the last phase covering 192 of the 467 buildings listed by Justice E. Padhmanaban Committee began.\n\nThe heritage structures have been classified into three grades, viz. Grade I, II, and III. Grade I includes buildings and precincts of national or historical importance, with excellence in architecture, style and design. These structures remain the chief landmarks of the city. Save for some minimal changes approved by the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC), no intervention, both on the interior and on the exterior, will be permitted in these structures. Grade II includes those structures of regional or local importance with special architectural or aesthetic merit, cultural or historical value. Although internal changes to the structures and adaptive reuse are allowed, here, too, external changes are allowed after scrutiny by the HCC. Extension or construction of additional buildings in the same plot are permissible as long as they are in harmony with the existing structure, especially in terms of facade and height. Grade III includes structures of importance for town spaces. These structures evoke architectural or aesthetic interest, but not as much as the Grade II structures. Changes to both external and internal portions of the buildings are generally permissible for Grade III buildings.\n\nPromiment buildings on the HCC's list include:\n\nStructures that remain to be documented include:\n\nBuildings on the heritage list that do not exist any more include:\n"}
{"id": "14072346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14072346", "title": "Imperial Gazetteer of England and Wales", "text": "Imperial Gazetteer of England and Wales\n\nThe Imperial Gazetteer of England and Wales is a substantial topographical dictionary first published between 1870 and 1872, edited by the Reverend John Marius Wilson. It contains a detailed description of England and Wales. Its six volumes have a brief article on each county, city, borough, civil parish, and diocese, describing their political and physical features and naming the principal people of each place.\n\nThe publishers were A. Fullarton and Co., of London & Edinburgh. The work is a companion to Wilson's \"Imperial Gazetteer of Scotland\", published in parts between 1854 and 1857.\n\nThe text of the Imperial Gazetteer is available online in two forms, as images you pay for on the Ancestry web site, and as freely accessible searchable text on \"A Vision of Britain through Time\", which also accesses Groome's \"Ordnance Gazetteer of Scotland\" and the Bartholomew \"Gazetteer of the British Isles\". Volumes 1-4 and 6 (i.e. all but volume 5) are available at the Internet Archive. However, it should be treated with some caution. The scale of the project was such that Wilson was unable to check all statements himself, and for many smaller places the information given is out of date or even wrong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19008684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008684", "title": "Index of Åland-related articles", "text": "Index of Åland-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to Åland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39800770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39800770", "title": "Integrated modification methodology", "text": "Integrated modification methodology\n\nIntegrated modification methodology (IMM) is a procedure encompassing an open set of scientific techniques for morphologically analyzing the built environment in a multiscale manner and evaluating its performance in actual states or under specific design scenarios.\n\nThe methodology is structured around a nonlinear phasing process aiming for delivering a systemic understanding of any given urban settlement, formulating the modification set-ups for improving its performance, and examining the modification strategies to transform that system. The basic assumption in IMM is the recognition of the built environment as a Complex Adaptive System.\n\nIMM has been developed by IMMdesignlab, a research lab based at Politecnico di Milano at the Department of Architecture, Built Environment and Construction Engineering (DABC).\n\nIMM began in 2010 as an academic research at Politecnico di Milano. That research criticized the analytical approach frequently used to study and evaluate the built environment by most of the sustainable development methods. By Recognizing the built environment as a Complex Adaptive System (CAS), IMM is urged towards a holistic simulation rather than simplifying the complex mechanisms within the cities with reductionism.\n\nIn 2013, Massimo Tadi established the \"IMMdesignlab\" at the Department of Architecture, Built Environment and Construction Engineering (DABC) of the Politecnico di Milano. The purpose of the mentioned laboratory is to develop IMM through research and education.\n\nIN 2015, \"Integrated Modification Methodology for the Sustainable Built Environment\" has been approved as an academic course in the curriculum of the \"Architectural Engineering\", an International Master Program in Politecnico di Milano.\n\nAt its theoretical background, Integrated Modification Methodology refers to the contemporary urban development as a highly paradoxical context arisen from the social and economic significance of the cities on the one hand and their arguably negative environmental impacts on the other. Asserting the inevitably of urbanization, IMM declares that the only way to overcome that paradox for the cities is to develop in a profound integration with the ecology. According to IMM, the fundamental prerequisite of ecologically sustainable development is to have a comprehensive systemic understanding of the built environment.\n\nIMM suggests that the advancement in construction techniques, building materials quality and transportation technologies alone have not solved the complex problems of the urban life simply because such improvements are not necessarily dealing with the systemic integration. The core argument of IMM is that the performance of the city is being chiefly driven by the complex relationships subsystems rather than the independent qualities of the urban elements. Thus, it aims at portraying the systemic structure of the built environment by introducing a logical framework for modeling the linkage between the city’s static and dynamic elements.\n\nIntegrated Modification Methodology is based on an iterative process involving the following four major phases:\nThe first phase, Investigation, is a synthesis-based inquiry into the systemic structure of the urban form. It begins with \"Horizontal Investigation\" in which the area under study is being dismantled into its morphology-generator elements, namely Urban Built-ups, Urban Voids, Types of Uses, and Links. It follows with \"Vertical Investigation\" that is a study of integral relationships between the mentioned elements. The output of Vertical Investigation is a set of quantitative descriptions and qualitative illustrations of certain attributes named \"Key Categories\". In a nutshell they are types of emergence that show how elements come to self-organize or to synchronize their states into forming a new level of organization. Hence in IMM, Key Categories are the result of an emergence process of interaction between elementary parts (Urban Built-ups, Urban Voids, Types of Uses, and Links) to form a synergy able to add value to the combined organization. Key categories are the products of the synergy between elementary parts, a new organization that emerge not (simply as) an additive result of the proprieties of the elementary parts. \nIMM declares that the city’s functioning manner is chiefly driven from the Key Categories, hence, they have the most fundamental role in understanding the architecture of the city as a Complex Adaptive System. The Investigation phase concludes with the \"Evaluation\" step which is basically an examination of the system’s performance by referring to a list of verified indicators associated with ecological sustainability. The same indicators are later used in the CAS retrofitting process necessary for the final evaluation of the system performance, after the transformation design process occurred.\n\nThe Formulation phase is a technical assumption of the most critical Key Category and the urban element within the area deduced from the Investigation phase. These critical attributes are being interpreted as the Catalysts of transformation and are to come to the designer’s use to set a contextual priority list of \"Design Ordering Principals\".\n\nThe third phase is the introduction of the modification/design scenarios to the project and advances with examining them by the exact procedure of the Investigation phase in a repetitive manner until the transformed context is predicted to be acceptable in arrangement and evaluation.\n\nThe fourth phase, Retrofitting and Optimization, is a testing process of the outcomes of the modification phase, then a local optimization by technical strategies (e.g. installing photovoltaic panels, designing green roofs, studying building orientations etc.) is initiated.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18554905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18554905", "title": "International Network for Environmental Compliance and Enforcement", "text": "International Network for Environmental Compliance and Enforcement\n\nThe International Network for Environmental Compliance and Enforcement (INECE) is a global network of environmental compliance and enforcement practitioners dedicated to raising awareness of compliance and enforcement across the regulatory cycle; developing networks for enforcement cooperation; and strengthening capacity to implement and enforce environmental requirements.\n\nFounded in 1989 by The Netherlands Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM) and by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), INECE links the environmental compliance and enforcement efforts of more than 4,000 practitioners - inspectors, prosecutors, regulators, parliamentarians, judges, international organizations,and non-governmental organizations - from 120 countries.\n\nINECE's organizational structure consists of its Executive Planning Committee, its implementing Secretariat, and its participants.\n\nThe Executive Planning Committee (EPC), as the governing body of INECE, defines INECE's cooperative efforts and makes decisions to realize the INECE mission. It is co-chaired by representatives of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), the Netherlands Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development (VROM), and the Brazil Supreme Court (STJ). The INECE Secretariat provides technical, administrative, and communications support for Executive Planning Committee functions and helps to implement the INECE work program. Durwood Zaelke, President of the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development, is the current Director of the INECE Secretariat.\n\nINECE participants include inspectors, prosecutors, regulators, parliamentarians, judges, other governmental officials, and members of international and non-governmental organizations. INECE is an informal network, and any environmental compliance and enforcement practitioners may join the network by registering through the INECE Web site. INECE participants support the mission and objectives of the network, and may carry out these activities on an individual, organizational, bilateral, and/or multilateral basis as appropriate.\n\nINECE conferences bring together enforcement officials from both developed and developing countries all over the world to share experiences and make plans to take environmental compliance and enforcement efforts to the next level. INECE has hosted eight international conferences since 1990:\n\n\nINECE expert working groups provide opportunities for participants to collaborate to respond to environmental compliance and enforcement challenges and to share knowledge gained with the broader network through workshops, conferences, publications, and email discussion groups. Major expert working groups and topical networks include:\n\n\nINECE training resources developed to help individuals responsible for environmental protection in different countries, regions, and localities design and implement compliance strategies and enforcement programs include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28940928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940928", "title": "International rankings of Cyprus", "text": "International rankings of Cyprus\n\nThese are the international rankings of Cyprus\n"}
{"id": "147575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147575", "title": "Ireland", "text": "Ireland\n\nIreland (; ; Ulster-Scots: ) is an island in the North Atlantic. It is separated from Great Britain to its east by the North Channel, the Irish Sea, and St George's Channel. Ireland is the second-largest island of the British Isles, the third-largest in Europe, and the twentieth-largest on Earth.\n\nPolitically, Ireland is divided between the Republic of Ireland (officially named Ireland), which covers five-sixths of the island, and Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom. In 2011, the population of Ireland was about 6.6 million, ranking it the second-most populous island in Europe after Great Britain. Just under 4.8 million live in the Republic of Ireland and just over 1.8 million live in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe island's geography comprises relatively low-lying mountains surrounding a central plain, with several navigable rivers extending inland. Its lush vegetation is a product of its mild but changeable climate which is free of extremes in temperature. It was covered by thick woodlands until the Middle Ages. As of 2013, the amount of land that is wooded in Ireland is about 11% of the total, compared with a European average of 35%. There are twenty-six extant mammal species native to Ireland. The Irish climate is influenced by the Atlantic Ocean and thus very moderate, and winters are milder than expected for such a northerly area, although summers are cooler than those in Continental Europe. Rainfall and cloud cover are abundant.\n\nThe earliest evidence of human presence in Ireland is dated at 10,500 BC (12,500 years ago). Gaelic Ireland had emerged by the 1st century AD. The island was Christianised from the 5th century onward. Following the 12th century Norman invasion, England claimed sovereignty. However, English rule did not extend over the whole island until the 16th–17th century Tudor conquest, which led to colonisation by settlers from Britain. In the 1690s, a system of Protestant English rule was designed to materially disadvantage the Catholic majority and Protestant dissenters, and was extended during the 18th century. With the Acts of Union in 1801, Ireland became a part of the United Kingdom. A war of independence in the early 20th century was followed by the partition of the island, creating the Irish Free State, which became increasingly sovereign over the following decades, and Northern Ireland, which remained a part of the United Kingdom. Northern Ireland saw much civil unrest from the late 1960s until the 1990s. This subsided following a political agreement in 1998. In 1973 the Republic of Ireland joined the European Economic Community while the United Kingdom, and Northern Ireland, as part of it, did the same.\n\nIrish culture has had a significant influence on other cultures, especially in the fields of literature. Alongside mainstream Western culture, a strong indigenous culture exists, as expressed through Gaelic games, Irish music and the Irish language. The island's culture shares many features with that of Great Britain, including the English language, and sports such as association football, rugby, horse racing, and golf.\n\nThe names \"Ireland\" and Éire derive from Old Irish '. This in turn comes from the Proto-Celtic \"*Iveriu\" (compare Welsh '), which is also the source of Latin \"\". \"Iveriu\" derives from a root meaning 'fat, prosperous'.\n\nDuring the last glacial period, and up until about 10,000 BC, most of Ireland was periodically covered in ice. Sea levels were lower and Ireland, like Great Britain, formed part of continental Europe. By 16,000 BC, rising sea levels due to ice melting caused Ireland to become separated from Great Britain. Later, around 6000 BC, Great Britain itself became separated from continental Europe. The earliest evidence of human presence in Ireland is dated at 10,500 BC, demonstrated by a butchered bear bone found in a cave in County Clare. It is not until about 8000 BC, however, that more sustained occupation of the island has been shown, with evidence for Mesolithic communities around the island. These Mesolithic communities lived as hunter-gatherers across the island until about 4000 BC.\n\nSome time before 4000 BC, Neolithic settlers arrived introducing cereal cultivars, domesticated animals such as cattle and sheep, large timber building, and stone monuments. The earliest evidence for farming in Ireland or Great Britain is from Ferriter's Cove, Co.Kerry, where a flint knife, cattle bones and a sheep's tooth were carbon-dated to c. 4350 BC. Field systems were developed in different parts of Ireland, including at the Céide Fields, that has been preserved beneath a blanket of peat in present-day Tyrawley. An extensive field system, arguably the oldest in the world, consisted of small divisions separated by dry-stone walls. The fields were farmed for several centuries between 3500 BC and 3000 BC. Wheat and barley were the principal crops.\n\nThe Bronze Age – defined by the use of metal – began around 2500 BC, with technology changing people's everyday lives during this period through innovations such as the wheel; harnessing oxen; weaving textiles; brewing alcohol; and skilful metalworking, which produced new weapons and tools, along with fine gold decoration and jewellery, such as brooches and torcs. According to John T. Koch and others, Ireland in the Late Bronze Age was part of a maritime trading-network culture called the Atlantic Bronze Age that also included Britain, western France and Iberia, and that this is where Celtic languages developed. This contrasts with the traditional view that their origin lies in mainland Europe with the Hallstatt culture.\n\nDuring the Iron Age, a Celtic language and culture emerged in Ireland. How and when the island became Celtic has been debated for close to a century, with the migrations of the Celts being one of the more enduring themes of archaeological and linguistic studies. The most recent genetic research strongly associates the spread of Indo-European languages (including Celtic) through Western Europe with a people bringing a composite Beaker culture, with its arrival in Britain and Ireland dated to around the middle of the third millennium.\nThe long-standing traditional view, once widely accepted, is that the Celtic language, Ogham script and culture were brought to Ireland by waves of invading or migrating Celts from mainland Europe. This theory draws on the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\", a medieval Christian pseudo-history of Ireland along with the presence of Celtic culture, language and artefacts found in Ireland such as Celtic bronze spears, shields, torcs and other finely crafted Celtic associated possessions. The theory holds that there were four separate Celtic invasions of Ireland. The Priteni were said to be the first, followed by the Belgae from northern Gaul and Britain. Later, Laighin tribes from Armorica (present-day Brittany) were said to have invaded Ireland and Britain more or less simultaneously. Lastly, the Milesians (Gaels) were said to have reached Ireland from either northern Iberia or southern Gaul. It was claimed that a second wave named the Euerni, belonging to the Belgae people of northern Gaul, began arriving about the sixth century BC. They were said to have given their name to the island.\n\nThe theory was advanced in part because of lack of archeological evidence for large-scale Celtic immigration, though it is accepted that such movements are notoriously difficult to identify. Some proponents of this theory hold that it is likely that there was migration of smaller groups of Celts to Ireland, with sufficiently regular traffic to constitute a \"migration stream,\" but that this was not the fundamental cause of Insular Celticisation. Historical linguists are sceptical that this method alone could account for the absorption of the Celtic language, with some saying that an assumed processional view of Celtic linguistic formation is 'an especially hazardous exercise'. Genetic lineage investigation into the area of Celtic migration to Ireland has led to findings that showed no significant differences in mitochondrial DNA between Ireland and large areas of continental Europe, in contrast to parts of the Y-chromosome pattern. When taking both into account a study drew the conclusion that modern Celtic speakers in Ireland could be thought of as European \"Atlantic Celts\" showing a shared ancestry throughout the Atlantic zone from northern Iberia to western Scandinavia rather than substantially central European.\n\nIn 2012, research showed that occurrence of genetic markers for the earliest farmers was almost eliminated by Beaker-culture immigrants: they carried what was then a new Y-chromosome R1b marker, believed to have originated in Iberia about 2500 BC. The prevalence amongst modern Irish men for this mutation is a remarkable 84%, the highest in the World, and closely matched in other populations along the Atlantic fringes down to Spain. A similar genetic replacement happened with lineages in mitochondrial DNA. This conclusion is supported by recent research carried out by the geneticist David Reich, who says: “British and Irish skeletons from the Bronze Age that followed the Beaker period had at most 10 percent ancestry from the first farmers of these islands, with other 90 percent from people like those associated with the Bell Beaker culture in the Netherlands”. He suggests that it was Beaker users who introduced an Indo-European language, represented here by Celtic (i.e. a new language and culture introduced directly by migration and genetic replacement).\n\nThe earliest written records of Ireland come from classical Greco-Roman geographers. Ptolemy in his \"Almagest\" refers to Ireland as \"Mikra Brettania\" (\"Little Britain\"), in contrast to the larger island, which he called \"Megale Brettania\" (\"Great Britain\"). In his later work, \"Geography\", Ptolemy refers to Ireland as \"Iouernia\" and to Great Britain as \"Albion\". These \"new\" names were likely to have been the local names for the islands at the time. The earlier names, in contrast, were likely to have been coined before direct contact with local peoples was made.\n\nThe Romans would later refer to Ireland by this name too in its Latinised form, \"Hibernia\", or Scotia. Ptolemy records sixteen nations inhabiting every part of Ireland in 100 AD. The relationship between the Roman Empire and the kingdoms of ancient Ireland is unclear. However, a number of finds of Roman coins have been made, for example at the Iron Age settlement of Freestone Hill near Gowran and Newgrange.\n\nIreland continued as a patchwork of rival kingdoms but, beginning in the 7th century, a concept of national kingship gradually became articulated through the concept of a High King of Ireland. Medieval Irish literature portrays an almost unbroken sequence of High Kings stretching back thousands of years, but modern historians believe the scheme was constructed in the 8th century to justify the status of powerful political groupings by projecting the origins of their rule into the remote past.\n\nAll of the Irish kingdoms had their own kings but were nominally subject to the High King. The High King was drawn from the ranks of the provincial kings and ruled also the royal kingdom of Meath, with a ceremonial capital at the Hill of Tara. The concept didn't become a political reality until the Viking Age and even then was not a consistent one. Ireland did have a culturally unifying rule of law: the early written judicial system, the Brehon Laws, administered by a professional class of jurists known as the \"brehons\".\n\"The Chronicle of Ireland\" records that in 431, Bishop Palladius arrived in Ireland on a mission from Pope Celestine I to minister to the Irish \"already believing in Christ\". The same chronicle records that Saint Patrick, Ireland's best known patron saint, arrived the following year. There is continued debate over the missions of Palladius and Patrick, but the consensus is that they both took place and that the older druid tradition collapsed in the face of the new religion. Irish Christian scholars excelled in the study of Latin and Greek learning and Christian theology. In the monastic culture that followed the Christianisation of Ireland, Latin and Greek learning was preserved in Ireland during the Early Middle Ages in contrast to elsewhere in Europe, where the Dark Ages followed the Fall of the Western Roman Empire.\n\nThe arts of manuscript illumination, metalworking and sculpture flourished and produced treasures such as the \"Book of Kells\", ornate jewellery and the many carved stone crosses that still dot the island today. A mission founded in 563 on Iona by the Irish monk Saint Columba began a tradition of Irish missionary work that spread Celtic Christianity and learning to Scotland, England and the Frankish Empire on Continental Europe after the fall of Rome. These missions continued until the late Middle Ages, establishing monasteries and centres of learning, producing scholars such as Sedulius Scottus and Johannes Eriugena and exerting much influence in Europe.\n\nFrom the 9th century, waves of Viking raiders plundered Irish monasteries and towns. These raids added to a pattern of raiding and endemic warfare that was already deep-seated in Ireland. The Vikings also were involved in establishing most of the major coastal settlements in Ireland: Dublin, Limerick, Cork, Wexford, Waterford, as well as other smaller settlements.\n\nOn 1 May 1169, an expedition of Cambro-Norman knights with an army of about six hundred landed at Bannow Strand in present-day County Wexford. It was led by Richard de Clare, called \"Strongbow\" due to his prowess as an archer. The invasion, which coincided with a period of renewed Norman expansion, was at the invitation of Dermot Mac Murrough, the king of Leinster.\n\nIn 1166, Mac Murrough had fled to Anjou, France, following a war involving Tighearnán Ua Ruairc, of Breifne, and sought the assistance of the Angevin king, Henry II, in recapturing his kingdom. In 1171, Henry arrived in Ireland in order to review the general progress of the expedition. He wanted to re-exert royal authority over the invasion which was expanding beyond his control. Henry successfully re-imposed his authority over Strongbow and the Cambro-Norman warlords and persuaded many of the Irish kings to accept him as their overlord, an arrangement confirmed in the 1175 Treaty of Windsor.\n\nThe invasion was legitimised by the provisions of the Papal Bull \"Laudabiliter\", issued by Adrian IV in 1155. The bull encouraged Henry to take control in Ireland in order to oversee the financial and administrative reorganisation of the Irish Church and its integration into the Roman Church system. Some restructuring had already begun at the ecclesiastical level following the Synod of Kells in 1152. There has been significant controversy regarding the authenticity of \"Laudabiliter\", and there is no general agreement as to whether the bull was genuine or a forgery.\n\nIn 1172, the new pope, Alexander III, further encouraged Henry to advance the integration of the Irish Church with Rome. Henry was authorised to impose a tithe of one penny per hearth as an annual contribution. This church levy, called Peter's Pence, is extant in Ireland as a voluntary donation. In turn, Henry accepted the title of Lord of Ireland which Henry conferred on his younger son, John Lackland, in 1185. This defined the Irish state as the Lordship of Ireland. When Henry's successor died unexpectedly in 1199, John inherited the crown of England and retained the Lordship of Ireland.\nOver the century that followed, Norman feudal law gradually replaced the Gaelic Brehon Law so that by the late 13th century the Norman-Irish had established a feudal system throughout much of Ireland. Norman settlements were characterised by the establishment of baronies, manors, towns and the seeds of the modern county system. A version of the Magna Carta (the Great Charter of Ireland), substituting \"Dublin\" for \"London\" and the \"Irish Church\" for, the English church at the time, the \"Catholic Church\", was published in 1216 and the Parliament of Ireland was founded in 1297.\n\nFrom the mid-14th century, after the Black Death, Norman settlements in Ireland went into a period of decline. The Norman rulers and the Gaelic Irish elites intermarried and the areas under Norman rule became Gaelicised. In some parts, a hybrid Hiberno-Norman culture emerged. In response, the Irish parliament passed the Statutes of Kilkenny in 1367. These were a set of laws designed to prevent the assimilation of the Normans into Irish society by requiring English subjects in Ireland to speak English, follow English customs and abide by English law.\n\nBy the end of the 15th century central English authority in Ireland had all but disappeared and a renewed Irish culture and language, albeit with Norman influences, was dominant again. English Crown control remained relatively unshaken in an amorphous foothold around Dublin known as The Pale, and under the provisions of Poynings' Law of 1494, the Irish Parliamentary legislation was subject to the approval of the English Parliament.\n\nThe title of \"King of Ireland\" was re-created in 1542 by Henry VIII, then King of England, of the Tudor dynasty. English rule was reinforced and expanded in Ireland during the latter part of the 16th century, leading to the Tudor conquest of Ireland. A near complete conquest was achieved by the turn of the 17th century, following the Nine Years' War and the Flight of the Earls.\n\nThis control was consolidated during the wars and conflicts of the 17th century, including the English and Scottish colonisation in the Plantations of Ireland, the Wars of the Three Kingdoms and the Williamite War. Irish losses during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms (which, in Ireland, included the Irish Confederacy and the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland) are estimated to include 20,000 battlefield casualties. 200,000 civilians are estimated to have died as a result of a combination of war-related famine, displacement, guerrilla activity and pestilence over the duration of the war. A further 50,000 were sent into indentured servitude in the West Indies. Physician-general William Petty estimated that 504,000 Catholic Irish and 112,000 Protestant settlers died, and 100,000 people were transported, as a result of the war.. If a prewar population of 1.5 million is assumed, this would mean that the population was reduced by almost half. \n\nThe religious struggles of the 17th century left a deep sectarian division in Ireland. Religious allegiance now determined the perception in law of loyalty to the Irish King and Parliament. After the passing of the Test Act 1672, and the victory of the forces of the dual monarchy of William and Mary over the Jacobites, Roman Catholics and nonconforming Protestant Dissenters were barred from sitting as members in the Irish Parliament. Under the emerging Penal Laws, Irish Roman Catholics and Dissenters were increasingly deprived of various and sundry civil rights even to the ownership of hereditary property. Additional regressive punitive legislation followed in 1703, 1709 and 1728. This completed a comprehensive systemic effort to materially disadvantage Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters, while enriching a new ruling class of Anglican conformists. The new Anglo-Irish ruling class became known as the Protestant Ascendancy.\nThe \"Great Frost\" struck Ireland and the rest of Europe between December 1739 and September 1741, after a decade of relatively mild winters. The winters destroyed stored crops of potatoes and other staples and the poor summers severely damaged harvests. This resulted in the famine of 1740. An estimated 250,000 people (about one in eight of the population) died from the ensuing pestilence and disease. The Irish government halted export of corn and kept the army in quarters but did little more. Local gentry and charitable organisations provided relief but could do little to prevent the ensuing mortality.\n\nIn the aftermath of the famine, an increase in industrial production and a surge in trade brought a succession of construction booms. The population soared in the latter part of this century and the architectural legacy of Georgian Ireland was built. In 1782, Poynings' Law was repealed, giving Ireland legislative independence from Great Britain for the first time since 1495. The British government, however, still retained the right to nominate the government of Ireland without the consent of the Irish parliament.\n\nIn 1798, members of the Protestant Dissenter tradition (mainly Presbyterian) made common cause with Roman Catholics in a republican rebellion inspired and led by the Society of United Irishmen, with the aim of creating an independent Ireland. Despite assistance from France the rebellion was put down by British and Irish government and yeomanry forces. In 1800, the British and Irish parliaments both passed Acts of Union that, with effect from 1 January 1801, merged the Kingdom of Ireland and the Kingdom of Great Britain to create a United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nThe passage of the Act in the Irish Parliament was ultimately achieved with substantial majorities, having failed on the first attempt in 1799. According to contemporary documents and historical analysis, this was achieved through a considerable degree of bribery, with funding provided by the British Secret Service Office, and the awarding of peerages, places and honours to secure votes. Thus, the parliament in Ireland was abolished and replaced by a united parliament at Westminster in London, though resistance remained, as evidenced by Robert Emmet's failed Irish Rebellion of 1803.\n\nAside from the development of the linen industry, Ireland was largely passed over by the industrial revolution, partly because it lacked coal and iron resources and partly because of the impact of the sudden union with the structurally superior economy of England, which saw Ireland as a source of agricultural produce and capital.\nThe Great Famine of 1845–1851 devastated Ireland, as in those years Ireland's population fell by one-third. More than one million people died from starvation and disease, while an additional two million people emigrated, mostly to the United States and Canada. By the end of the decade, half of all immigration to the United States was from Ireland. The period of civil unrest that followed until the end of the 19th century is referred to as the Land War. Mass emigration became deeply entrenched and the population continued to decline until the mid-20th century. Immediately prior to the famine the population was recorded as 8.2 million by the 1841 census. The population has never returned to this level since. The population continued to fall until 1961 and it was not until the 2006 census that the last county of Ireland (County Leitrim) to record a rise in population since 1841 did so.\n\nThe 19th and early 20th centuries saw the rise of modern Irish nationalism, primarily among the Roman Catholic population. The pre-eminent Irish political figure after the Union was Daniel O'Connell. He was elected as Member of Parliament for Ennis in a surprise result and despite being unable to take his seat as a Roman Catholic. O'Connell spearheaded a vigorous campaign that was taken up by the Prime Minister, the Irish-born soldier and statesman, the Duke of Wellington. Steering the Catholic Relief Bill through Parliament, aided by future prime minister Robert Peel, Wellington prevailed upon a reluctant George IV to sign the Bill and proclaim it into law. George's father had opposed the plan of the earlier Prime Minister, Pitt the Younger, to introduce such a bill following the Union of 1801, fearing Catholic Emancipation to be in conflict with the Act of Settlement 1701.\n\nDaniel O'Connell led a subsequent campaign, for the repeal of the Act of Union, which failed. Later in the century, Charles Stewart Parnell and others campaigned for autonomy within the Union, or \"Home Rule\". Unionists, especially those located in Ulster, were strongly opposed to Home Rule, which they thought would be dominated by Catholic interests. After several attempts to pass a Home Rule bill through parliament, it looked certain that one would finally pass in 1914. To prevent this from happening, the Ulster Volunteers were formed in 1913 under the leadership of Edward Carson.\n\nTheir formation was followed in 1914 by the establishment of the Irish Volunteers, whose aim was to ensure that the Home Rule Bill was passed. The Act was passed but with the \"temporary\" exclusion of the six counties of Ulster that would become Northern Ireland. Before it could be implemented, however, the Act was suspended for the duration of the First World War. The Irish Volunteers split into two groups. The majority, approximately 175,000 in number, under John Redmond, took the name National Volunteers and supported Irish involvement in the war. A minority, approximately 13,000, retained the Irish Volunteers' name, and opposed Ireland's involvement in the war.\nThe Easter Rising of 1916 was carried out by the latter group together with a smaller socialist militia, the Irish Citizen Army. The British response, executing fifteen leaders of the Rising over a period of ten days and imprisoning or interning more than a thousand people, turned the mood of the country in favour of the rebels. Support for Irish republicanism increased further due to the ongoing war in Europe, as well as the Conscription Crisis of 1918.\n\nThe pro-independence republican party, Sinn Féin, received overwhelming endorsement in the general election of 1918, and in 1919 proclaimed an Irish Republic, setting up its own parliament (Dáil Éireann) and government. Simultaneously the Volunteers, which became known as the Irish Republican Army (IRA), launched a three-year guerrilla war, which ended in a truce in July 1921 (although violence continued until June 1922, mostly in Northern Ireland).\n\nIn December 1921, the Anglo-Irish Treaty was concluded between the British government and representatives of the Second Dáil. It gave Ireland complete independence in its home affairs and practical independence for foreign policy, but an opt-out clause allowed Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom, which it immediately exercised as expected. Additionally, Members of the Free State Parliament were required to swear an oath of allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State and make a statement of faithfulness to the King. Disagreements over these provisions led to a split in the nationalist movement and a subsequent Irish Civil War between the new government of the Irish Free State and those opposed to the treaty, led by Éamon de Valera. The civil war officially ended in May 1923 when de Valera issued a cease-fire order.\n\nDuring its first decade, the newly formed Irish Free State was governed by the victors of the civil war. When de Valera achieved power, he took advantage of the Statute of Westminster and political circumstances to build upon inroads to greater sovereignty made by the previous government. The oath was abolished and in 1937 a new constitution was adopted. This completed a process of gradual separation from the British Empire that governments had pursued since independence. However, it was not until 1949 that the state was declared, officially, to be the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe state was neutral during World War II, but offered clandestine assistance to the Allies, particularly in the potential defence of Northern Ireland. Despite their country's neutrality, approximately 50,000 volunteers from independent Ireland joined the British forces during the war, four being awarded Victoria Crosses.\n\nThe Abwehr was also active in Ireland. German intelligence operations effectively ended in September 1941 when police made arrests on the basis of surveillance carried out on the key diplomatic legations in Dublin, including that of the United States. To the authorities, counterintelligence was a fundamental line of defence. With a regular army of only slightly over seven thousand men at the start of the war, and with limited supplies of modern weapons, the state would have had great difficulty in defending itself from invasion from either side in the conflict.\n\nLarge-scale emigration marked most of the post-WWII period (particularly during the 1950s and 1980s), but beginning in 1987 the economy improved, and the 1990s saw the beginning of substantial economic growth. This period of growth became known as the \"Celtic Tiger\". The Republic's real GDP grew by an average of 9.6% per annum between 1995 and 1999, in which year the Republic joined the euro. In 2000, it was the sixth-richest country in the world in terms of GDP per capita.\n\nSocial changes also occurred in this time, most markedly with the decline in authority of the Catholic Church. The financial crisis that began in 2008 dramatically ended this period of boom. GDP fell by 3% in 2008 and by 7.1% in 2009, the worst year since records began (although earnings by foreign-owned businesses continued to grow). The state has since experienced deep recession, with unemployment, which doubled during 2009, remaining above 14% in 2012.\n\nNorthern Ireland resulted from the division of the United Kingdom by the Government of Ireland Act 1920, and until 1972 was a self-governing jurisdiction within the United Kingdom with its own parliament and prime minister. Northern Ireland, as part of the United Kingdom, was not neutral during the Second World War and Belfast suffered four bombing raids in 1941. Conscription was not extended to Northern Ireland and roughly an equal number volunteered from Northern Ireland as volunteered from the south.\n\nAlthough Northern Ireland was largely spared the strife of the civil war, in decades that followed partition there were sporadic episodes of inter-communal violence. Nationalists, mainly Roman Catholic, wanted to unite Ireland as an independent republic, whereas unionists, mainly Protestant, wanted Northern Ireland to remain in the United Kingdom. The Protestant and Catholic communities in Northern Ireland voted largely along sectarian lines, meaning that the Government of Northern Ireland (elected by \"first-past-the-post\" from 1929) was controlled by the Ulster Unionist Party. Over time, the minority Catholic community felt increasingly alienated with further disaffection fuelled by practices such as gerrymandering and discrimination in housing and employment.\n\nIn the late 1960s, nationalist grievances were aired publicly in mass civil rights protests, which were often confronted by loyalist counter-protests. The government's reaction to confrontations was seen to be one-sided and heavy-handed in favour of unionists. Law and order broke down as unrest and inter-communal violence increased. The Northern Ireland government requested the British Army to aid the police and protect the Irish Nationalist population. In 1969, the paramilitary Provisional IRA, which favoured the creation of a united Ireland, emerged from a split in the Irish Republican Army and began a campaign against what it called the \"British occupation of the six counties\".\n\nOther groups, on both the unionist side and the nationalist side, participated in violence and a period known as the Troubles began. Over 3,600 deaths resulted over the subsequent three decades of conflict. Owing to the civil unrest during the Troubles, the British government suspended home rule in 1972 and imposed direct rule. There were several unsuccessful attempts to end the Troubles politically, such as the Sunningdale Agreement of 1973. In 1998, following a ceasefire by the Provisional IRA and multi-party talks, the Good Friday Agreement was concluded as a treaty between the British and Irish governments, annexing the text agreed in the multi-party talks.\n\nThe substance of the Agreement (formally referred to as the Belfast Agreement) was later endorsed by referendums in both parts of Ireland. The Agreement restored self-government to Northern Ireland on the basis of power-sharing in a regional Executive drawn from the major parties in a new Northern Ireland Assembly, with entrenched protections for the two main communities. The Executive is jointly headed by a First Minister and deputy First Minister drawn from the unionist and nationalist parties. Violence had decreased greatly after the Provisional IRA and loyalist ceasefires in 1994 and in 2005 the Provisional IRA announced the end of its armed campaign and an independent commission supervised its disarmament and that of other nationalist and unionist paramilitary organisations.\n\nThe Assembly and power-sharing Executive were suspended several times but were restored again in 2007. In that year the British government officially ended its military support of the police in Northern Ireland (Operation Banner) and began withdrawing troops.\nOn 27 June 2012, Northern Ireland's deputy first minister and former IRA commander, Martin McGuinness, shook hands with Queen Elizabeth II in Belfast, symbolising reconciliation between the two sides.\n\nPolitically, the island is divided between the Republic of Ireland, an independent state, and Northern Ireland (a constituent country of the United Kingdom). They share an open border and both are part of the Common Travel Area.\n\nBoth the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom are members of the European Union, having both acceded to its precursor entity, the European Economic Community [EEC], in 1973, and as a consequence there is free movement of people, goods, services and capital across the border.\n\nThe Republic of Ireland is a parliamentary democracy based on the British model, with a written constitution and a popularly elected president who has mostly ceremonial powers. The government is headed by a prime minister, the Taoiseach, who is appointed by the President on the nomination of the lower house of parliament, the Dáil. Members of the government are chosen from both the Dáil and the upper house of parliament, the Seanad. Its capital is Dublin.\n\nThe Republic today ranks amongst the wealthiest countries in the world in terms of GDP per capita and in 2015 was ranked the sixth most developed nation in the world by the United Nations' Human Development Index. A period of rapid economic expansion from 1995 onwards became known as the Celtic Tiger period, was brought to an end in 2008 with an unprecedented financial crisis and an economic depression in 2009.\n\nNorthern Ireland is a part of the United Kingdom with a local executive and assembly which exercise devolved powers. The executive is jointly headed by the first and deputy-first minister, with the ministries being allocated in proportion with each party's representation in the assembly. Its capital is Belfast.\n\nUltimately political power is held by the UK government, from which Northern Ireland has gone through intermittent periods of direct rule during which devolved powers have been suspended. Northern Ireland elects 18 of the UK House of Commons' 650 MPs. The Northern Ireland Secretary is a cabinet-level post in the British government.\n\nAlong with England and Wales and Scotland, Northern Ireland forms one of the three separate legal jurisdictions of the UK, all of which share the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom as their court of final appeal.\n\nAs part of the Good Friday Agreement, the British and Irish governments agreed on the creation of all-island institutions and areas of cooperation. The North/South Ministerial Council is an institution through which ministers from the Government of Ireland and the Northern Ireland Executive agree all-island policies. At least six of these policy areas must have an associated all-island \"implementation bodies\" and at least six others must be implemented separately in each jurisdiction. The implementation bodies are: Waterways Ireland, the Food Safety Promotion Board, InterTradeIreland, the Special European Union Programmes Body, the North/South Language Body and the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish Lights Commission.\n\nThe British–Irish Intergovernmental Conference provides for co-operation between the Government of Ireland and the Government of the United Kingdom on all matter of mutual interest, especially Northern Ireland. In light of the Republic's particular interest in the governance of Northern Ireland, \"regular and frequent\" meetings co-chaired by the ROI Minister for Foreign Affairs and the UK Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, dealing with non-devolved matters to do with Northern Ireland and non-devolved all-Ireland issues, are required to take place under the establishing treaty.\n\nThe North/South Inter-Parliamentary Association is a joint parliamentary forum for the island of Ireland. It has no formal powers but operates as a forum for discussing matters of common concern between the respective legislatures.\n\nDespite the two jurisdictions using two distinct currencies (the euro and pound sterling), a growing amount of commercial activity is carried out on an all-Ireland basis. This has been facilitated by the two jurisdictions' shared membership of the European Union, and there have been calls from members of the business community and policymakers for the creation of an \"all-Ireland economy\" to take advantage of economies of scale and boost competitiveness.\n\nThere are two multi-city regions on the island of Ireland:\n\nBelow is a comparison of the Regional GDP on the island of Ireland.\n\n\nThere are three World Heritage Sites on the island: the Brú na Bóinne, Skellig Michael and the Giant's Causeway. A number of other places are on the tentative list, for example the Burren, the Ceide Fields and Mount Stewart.\n\nSome of the most visited sites in Ireland include Bunratty Castle, the Rock of Cashel, the Cliffs of Moher, Holy Cross Abbey and Blarney Castle. Historically important monastic sites include Glendalough and Clonmacnoise, which are maintained as national monuments in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nDublin is the most heavily touristed region and home to several of the most popular attractions such as the Guinness Storehouse and Book of Kells. The west and south west, which includes the Lakes of Killarney and the Dingle peninsula in County Kerry and Connemara and the Aran Islands in County Galway, are also popular tourist destinations.\n\nAchill Island lies off the coast of County Mayo and is Ireland's largest island. It is a popular tourist destination for surfing and contains 5 Blue Flag beaches and Croaghaun one of the worlds highest sea cliffs. Stately homes, built during the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries in Palladian, Neoclassical and neo-Gothic styles, such as, Castle Ward, Castletown House, Bantry House, Glenveagh Castle are also of interest to tourists. Some have been converted into hotels, such as Ashford Castle, Castle Leslie and Dromoland Castle.\n\nIreland has an ancient industry based on peat (known locally as \"turf\") as a source of energy for home fires. A form of biomass energy, this source of heat is still widely used in rural areas. However, due to the ecological importance of peatlands in storing carbon and their rarity, the EU is attempting to protect this habitat by fining Ireland if they are dug up. In cities, heat is generally supplied by heating oil, although some urban suppliers distribute \"sods of turf\" as \"smokeless fuel\".\n\nAn area in which the island operates as a single market is electricity. For much of their existence electricity networks in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland were entirely separate. Both networks were designed and constructed independently post partition. However, as a result of changes over recent years they are now connected with three interlinks and also connected through Great Britain to mainland Europe. The situation in Northern Ireland is complicated by the issue of private companies not supplying Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) with enough power. In the Republic of Ireland, the ESB has failed to modernise its power stations and the availability of power plants has recently averaged only 66%, one of the worst such rates in Western Europe. EirGrid is building a HVDC transmission line between Ireland and Great Britain with a capacity of 500 MW, about 10% of Ireland's peak demand.\n\nAs with electricity, the natural gas distribution network is also now all-island, with a pipeline linking Gormanston, County Meath, and Ballyclare, County Antrim. Most of Ireland's gas comes through interconnectors between Twynholm in Scotland and Ballylumford, County Antrim and Loughshinny, County Dublin. A decreasing supply is coming from the Kinsale gas field off the County Cork coast and the Corrib Gas Field off the coast of County Mayo has yet to come on-line. The County Mayo field is facing some localised opposition over a controversial decision to refine the gas onshore.\n\nThe Republic has a strong commitment to renewable energy, and ranks as one of the top 10 markets for cleantech investment in the 2014 Global Green Economy Index. Research and development in renewable energy such as wind power has increased since 2004. Large wind farms have been constructed in Cork, Donegal, Mayo and Antrim. The construction of wind farms has in some cases been delayed by opposition from local communities, some of whom consider the wind turbines to be unsightly. The Republic is hindered by an ageing network that was not designed to handle the varying availability of power that comes from wind farms. The ESB's Turlough Hill facility is the only power-storage facility in the state.\n\nIreland is located in the north-west of Europe, between latitudes 51° and 56° N, and longitudes 11° and 5° W. It is separated from Great Britain by the Irish Sea and the North Channel, which has a width of at its narrowest point. To the west is the northern Atlantic Ocean and to the south is the Celtic Sea, which lies between Ireland and Brittany, in France. Ireland has a total area of , of which the Republic of Ireland occupies 83 percent. Ireland and Great Britain, together with many nearby smaller islands, are known collectively as the British Isles. As the term British Isles is controversial in relation to Ireland, the alternate term \"Britain and Ireland\" is often used as a neutral term for the islands.\n\nA ring of coastal mountains surround low plains at the centre of the island. The highest of these is Carrauntoohil () in County Kerry, which rises to above sea level. The most arable land lies in the province of Leinster. Western areas can be mountainous and rocky with green panoramic vistas. The River Shannon, the island's longest river at long, rises in County Cavan in the north west and flows to Limerick city in the mid west.\n\nThe island consists of varied geological provinces. In the west, around County Galway and County Donegal, is a medium to high grade metamorphic and igneous complex of Caledonide affinity, similar to the Scottish Highlands. Across southeast Ulster and extending southwest to Longford and south to Navan is a province of Ordovician and Silurian rocks, with similarities to the Southern Uplands province of Scotland. Further south, along the County Wexford coastline, is an area of granite intrusives into more Ordovician and Silurian rocks, like that found in Wales.\n\nIn the southwest, around Bantry Bay and the mountains of Macgillicuddy's Reeks, is an area of substantially deformed, but only lightly metamorphosed, Devonian-aged rocks. This partial ring of \"hard rock\" geology is covered by a blanket of Carboniferous limestone over the centre of the country, giving rise to a comparatively fertile and lush landscape. The west-coast district of the Burren around Lisdoonvarna has well-developed karst features. Significant stratiform lead-zinc mineralisation is found in the limestones around Silvermines and Tynagh.\n\nHydrocarbon exploration is ongoing following the first major find at the Kinsale Head gas field off Cork in the mid-1970s. In 1999, economically significant finds of natural gas were made in the Corrib Gas Field off the County Mayo coast. This has increased activity off the west coast in parallel with the \"West of Shetland\" step-out development from the North Sea hydrocarbon province. In 2000, the Helvick oil field was discovered, which was estimated to contain over of oil.\n\nThe island's lush vegetation, a product of its mild climate and frequent rainfall, earns it the sobriquet \"the Emerald Isle\". Overall, Ireland has a mild but changeable oceanic climate with few extremes. The climate is typically insular and is temperate, avoiding the extremes in temperature of many other areas in the world at similar latitudes. This is a result of the moderating moist winds which ordinarily prevail from the South-Western Atlantic.\n\nPrecipitation falls throughout the year but is light overall, particularly in the east. The west tends to be wetter on average and prone to Atlantic storms, especially in the late autumn and winter months. These occasionally bring destructive winds and higher total rainfall to these areas, as well as sometimes snow and hail. The regions of north County Galway and east County Mayo have the highest incidents of recorded lightning annually for the island, with lightning occurring approximately five to ten days per year in these areas. Munster, in the south, records the least snow whereas Ulster, in the north, records the most.\n\nInland areas are warmer in summer and colder in winter. Usually around 40 days of the year are below freezing at inland weather stations, compared to 10 days at coastal stations. Ireland is sometimes affected by heat waves, most recently in 1995, 2003, 2006, 2013 and 2018. In common with the rest of Europe, Ireland experienced unusually cold weather during the winter of 2010/11. Temperatures fell as low as −17.2 °C (1 °F) in County Mayo on 20 December and up to a metre (3 ft) of snow fell in mountainous areas.\n\nBecause Ireland became isolated from mainland Europe by rising sea levels before the last ice age had completely finished, it has fewer land animal and plant species than Great Britain, which separated later, or mainland Europe. There are 55 mammal species in Ireland and of them only 26 land mammal species are considered native to Ireland. Some species, such as, the red fox, hedgehog and badger, are very common, whereas others, like the Irish hare, red deer and pine marten are less so. Aquatic wildlife, such as species of sea turtle, shark, seal, whale, and dolphin, are common off the coast. About 400 species of birds have been recorded in Ireland. Many of these are migratory, including the barn swallow.\n\nSeveral different habitat types are found in Ireland, including farmland, open woodland, temperate broadleaf and mixed forests, conifer plantations, peat bogs and a variety of coastal habitats. However, agriculture drives current land use patterns in Ireland, limiting natural habitat preserves, particularly for larger wild mammals with greater territorial needs. With no large apex predators in Ireland other than humans and dogs, such populations of animals as semi-wild deer that cannot be controlled by smaller predators, such as the fox, are controlled by annual culling.\n\nThere are no snakes in Ireland and only one species of reptile (the common lizard) is native to the island. Extinct species include the Irish elk, the great auk, brown bear and the wolf. Some previously extinct birds, such as the golden eagle, been reintroduced in about the year 2000 after decades of extirpation. Until medieval times Ireland was heavily forested with oak, pine and birch. Forests today cover about 12.6% of Ireland, of which 4,450 km² or one million acres is owned by Coillte, the Republic's forestry service.\n\nAs of 2012, the Republic is one of the least forested countries in Europe. Much of the land is now covered with pasture and there are many species of wild-flower. Gorse (\"Ulex europaeus\"), a wild furze, is commonly found growing in the uplands and ferns are plentiful in the more moist regions, especially in the western parts. It is home to hundreds of plant species, some of them unique to the island, and has been \"invaded\" by some grasses, such as \"Spartina anglica\".\nThe algal and seaweed flora is that of the cold-temperate variety. The total number of species is 574 and is distributed as follows:\n\nRarer species include:\n\nThe island has been invaded by some algae, some of which are now well established. For example:\n\n\"Codium fragile\" ssp. \"atlanticum\" has been established to be native, although for many years it was regarded as an alien species.\n\nBecause of its mild climate, many species, including sub-tropical species such as palm trees, are grown in Ireland. Phytogeographically, Ireland belongs to the Atlantic European province of the Circumboreal Region within the Boreal Kingdom. The island itself can be subdivided into two ecoregions: the Celtic broadleaf forests and North Atlantic moist mixed forests.\n\nThe long history of agricultural production, coupled with modern intensive agricultural methods such as pesticide and fertiliser use and runoff from contaminants into streams, rivers and lakes, impact the natural fresh-water ecosystems and have placed pressure on biodiversity in Ireland.\n\nA land of green fields for crop cultivation and cattle rearing limits the space available for the establishment of native wild species. Hedgerows, however, traditionally used for maintaining and demarcating land boundaries, act as a refuge for native wild flora. This ecosystem stretches across the countryside and acts as a network of connections to preserve remnants of the ecosystem that once covered the island. Subsidies under the Common Agricultural Policy, which supported agricultural practices that preserved hedgerow environments, are undergoing reforms. The Common Agricultural Policy had in the past subsidised potentially destructive agricultural practices, for example by emphasising production without placing limits on indiscriminate use of fertilisers and pesticides; but reforms have gradually decoupled subsidies from production levels and introduced environmental and other requirements.\n\nForest covers about 12.6% of the country, most of it designated for commercial production. Forested areas typically consist of monoculture plantations of non-native species, which may result in habitats that are not suitable for supporting native species of invertebrates. Remnants of native forest can be found scattered around the island, in particular in the Killarney National Park. Natural areas require fencing to prevent over-grazing by deer and sheep that roam over uncultivated areas. Grazing in this manner is one of the main factors preventing the natural regeneration of forests across many regions of the country.\n\n32.2% of all of Ireland's greenhouse gas emissions are due to agriculture.\n\nPeople have lived in Ireland for over 9,000 years. The different eras are termed mesolithic, neolithic, Bronze Age, and Iron Age.\n\nEarly historical and genealogical records note the existence of major groups such as the Cruthin, Corcu Loígde, Dál Riata, Dáirine, Deirgtine, Delbhna, Érainn, Laigin, Ulaid. Slightly later major groups included the Connachta, Ciannachta, Eóganachta.\n\nSmaller groups included the aithechthúatha (see Attacotti), Cálraighe, Cíarraige, Conmaicne, Dartraighe, Déisi, Éile, Fir Bolg, Fortuatha, Gailenga, Gamanraige, Mairtine, Múscraige, Partraige, Soghain, Uaithni, Uí Maine, Uí Liatháin. Many survived into late medieval times, others vanished as they became politically unimportant.\n\nOver the past 1200 years, Vikings, Normans, Welsh, Flemings, Scots, English, Africans, Eastern Europeans and South Americans have all added to the population and have had significant influences on Irish culture.\n\nIreland's largest religious group is Christianity. The largest denomination is Roman Catholicism representing over 73% for the island (and about 87% of the Republic of Ireland). Most of the rest of the population adhere to one of the various Protestant denominations (about 48% of Northern Ireland). The largest is the Anglican Church of Ireland. The Muslim community is growing in Ireland, mostly through increased immigration, with a 50% increase in the republic between the 2006 and 2011 census. The island has a small Jewish community. About 4% of the Republic's population and about 14% of the Northern Ireland population describe themselves as of no religion. In a 2010 survey conducted on behalf of the Irish Times, 32% of respondents said they went to a religious service more than once a week.\n\nThe population of Ireland rose rapidly from the 16th century until the mid-19th century, interrupted briefly by the Famine of 1740-41, which killed roughly two fifths of the island's population. The population rebounded and multiplied over the next century, but another devastating famine in the 1840s caused one million deaths and forced over one million more to emigrate in its immediate wake. Over the following century the population was reduced by over half, at a time when the general trend in European countries was for populations to rise by an average of three-fold.\n\nTraditionally, Ireland is subdivided into four provinces: Connacht (west), Leinster (east), Munster (south), and Ulster (north). In a system that developed between the 13th and 17th centuries, Ireland has 32 traditional counties. Twenty-six of these counties are in the Republic of Ireland and six are in Northern Ireland. The six counties that constitute Northern Ireland are all in the province of Ulster (which has nine counties in total). As such, \"Ulster\" is often used as a synonym for Northern Ireland, although the two are not coterminous.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, counties form the basis of the system of local government. Counties Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Galway, Waterford and Tipperary have been broken up into smaller administrative areas. However, they are still treated as counties for cultural and some official purposes, for example postal addresses and by the Ordnance Survey Ireland. Counties in Northern Ireland are no longer used for local governmental purposes, but, as in the Republic, their traditional boundaries are still used for informal purposes such as sports leagues and in cultural or tourism contexts.\n\nCity status in Ireland is decided by legislative or royal charter. Dublin, with over 1 million residents in the Greater Dublin Area, is the largest city on the island. Belfast, with 579,726 residents, is the largest city in Northern Ireland. City status does not directly equate with population size. For example, Armagh, with 14,590 is the seat of the Church of Ireland and the Roman Catholic Primate of All Ireland and was re-granted city status by Queen Elizabeth II in 1994 (having lost that status in local government reforms of 1840). In the Republic of Ireland, Kilkenny, seat of the Butler dynasty, while no longer a city for administrative purposes (since the 2001 Local Government Act), is entitled by law to continue to use the description.\n\nThe population of Ireland collapsed dramatically during the second half of the 19th century. A population of over 8 million in 1841 was reduced to slightly more than 4 million by 1921. In part, the fall in population was due to death from the Great Famine of 1845 to 1852, which took about 1 million lives. However, by far the greater cause of population decline was the dire economic state of the country which led to an entrenched culture of emigration lasting until the 21st century.\n\nEmigration from Ireland in the 19th century contributed to the populations of England, the United States, Canada and Australia, where a large Irish diaspora lives. , 4.3 million Canadians, or 14% of the population, are of Irish descent. , a total of 34.5 million Americans claim Irish ancestry. Irish Americans today are predominantly Protestant with a Catholic minority. The Protestants' ancestors arrived primarily in the colonial era, while Catholics are primarily descended from immigrants of the 19th century. Irish leaders have been prominent in the Catholic Church in the United States for over 150 years. The Irish have been leaders in the Presbyterian and Methodist traditions, as well. Surveys in the 1990s show that of Americans who identify themselves as \"Irish\", 51% said they were Protestant and 36% identified as Catholic. In the South, Protestants account for 73% of those claiming Irish origins, while Catholics account for 19%. In the North, 45% of those claiming Irish origin are Catholic, while 39% are Protestant. Many African Americans and Native Americans claim Irish Protestant or Scots-Irish ancestry.\n\nWith growing prosperity since the last decade of the 20th century, Ireland became a destination for immigrants. Since the European Union expanded to include Poland in 2004, Polish people have made up the largest number of immigrants (over 150,000) from Central Europe. There has also been significant immigration from Lithuania, the Czech Republic and Latvia.\n\nThe Republic of Ireland in particular has seen large-scale immigration, with 420,000 foreign nationals as of 2006, about 10% of the population. A quarter of births (24 percent) in 2009 were to mothers born outside Ireland. Chinese and Nigerians, along with people from other African countries, have accounted for a large proportion of the non–European Union migrants to Ireland. Up to 50,000 eastern and central European migrant workers left Ireland in response to the Irish financial crisis.\n\nThe two official languages of the Republic of Ireland are Irish and English. Each language has produced a noteworthy literature. Irish, though now only the language of a minority, was the vernacular of the Irish people for over two thousand years and was possibly introduced during the Iron Age. It began to be written down after Christianisation in the 5th century and spread to Scotland and the Isle of Man where it evolved into the Scottish Gaelic and Manx languages respectively.\n\nThe Irish language has a vast treasury of written texts from many centuries, and is divided by linguists into Old Irish from the 6th to 10th century, Middle Irish from the 10th to 13th century, Early Modern Irish until the 17th century, and the Modern Irish spoken today. It remained the dominant language of Ireland for most of those periods, having influences from Latin, Old Norse, French and English. It declined under British rule but remained the majority tongue until the early 19th century, and since then has been a minority language.\n\nThe Gaelic Revival of the early twentieth century has had a long-term influence. There is now an extensive network of urban Irish speakers (Gaeilgeoirí) in both the Republic and Northern Ireland, especially in Dublin and Belfast. They represent an expanding demographic, with their own schools (called \"Gaelscoileanna\") and their own social media. It has been argued that they tend to be more highly educated than monolingual English speakers, with better employment prospects and higher social status. Recent research suggests that urban Irish is developing in a direction of its own, both in pronunciation and grammar. Irish is also taught in mainstream English-speaking schools as a compulsory subject, but has been criticised for its ineffectiveness.\n\nTraditional rural Irish-speaking areas, known collectively as the Gaeltacht, are in linguistic decline. The main Gaeltacht areas are in the west, south-west and north-west. They are to be found in Donegal, Mayo, Galway and Kerry with smaller Gaeltacht areas near Dungarvan in Waterford, Navan, in Meath.\n\nEnglish in Ireland was first introduced during the Norman invasion. It was spoken by a few peasants and merchants brought over from England, and was largely replaced by Irish before the Tudor conquest of Ireland. It was introduced as the official language with the Tudor and Cromwellian conquests. The Ulster plantations gave it a permanent foothold in Ulster, and it remained the official and upper-class language elsewhere, the Irish-speaking chieftains and nobility having been deposed. Language shift during the 19th century replaced Irish with English as the first language for a vast majority of the population.\n\nLess than 10% of the population of the Republic of Ireland today speak Irish regularly outside of the education system and 38% of those over 15 years are classified as \"Irish speakers\". In Northern Ireland, English is the de facto official language, but official recognition is afforded to Irish, including specific protective measures under Part III of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. A lesser status (including recognition under Part II of the Charter) is given to Ulster Scots dialects, which are spoken by roughly 2% of Northern Ireland residents, and also spoken by some in the Republic of Ireland. Since the 1960s with the increase in immigration, many more languages have been introduced, particularly deriving from Asia and Eastern Europe.\n\nShelta, the language of the nomadic Irish Travellers is native to Ireland.\n\nIreland's culture comprises elements of the culture of ancient peoples, later immigrant and broadcast cultural influences (chiefly Gaelic culture, Anglicisation, Americanisation and aspects of broader European culture). In broad terms, Ireland is regarded as one of the Celtic nations of Europe, alongside Scotland, Wales, Cornwall, Isle of Man and Brittany. This combination of cultural influences is visible in the intricate designs termed \"Irish interlace\" or \"Celtic knotwork.\" These can be seen in the ornamentation of medieval religious and secular works. The style is still popular today in jewellery and graphic art, as is the distinctive style of traditional Irish music and dance, and has become indicative of modern \"Celtic\" culture in general.\n\nReligion has played a significant role in the cultural life of the island since ancient times (and since the 17th century plantations, has been the focus of political identity and divisions on the island). Ireland's pre-Christian heritage fused with the Celtic Church following the missions of Saint Patrick in the 5th century. The Hiberno-Scottish missions, begun by the Irish monk Saint Columba, spread the Irish vision of Christianity to pagan England and the Frankish Empire. These missions brought written language to an illiterate population of Europe during the Dark Ages that followed the fall of Rome, earning Ireland the sobriquet, \"the island of saints and scholars\".\n\nSince the 20th century the Irish pubs worldwide have become, especially those with a full range of cultural and gastronomic offerings, outposts of Irish culture.\n\nThe Republic of Ireland's national theatre is the Abbey Theatre, which was founded in 1904, and the national Irish-language theatre is An Taibhdhearc, which was established in 1928 in Galway. Playwrights such as Seán O'Casey, Brian Friel, Sebastian Barry, Conor McPherson and Billy Roche are internationally renowned.\n\nIreland has made a large contribution to world literature in all its branches, both in Irish and English. Poetry in Irish is among the oldest vernacular poetry in Europe, with the earliest examples dating from the 6th century.\nIrish remained the dominant literary language down to the nineteenth century, despite the spread of English from the seventeenth century on. Prominent names from the medieval period and later include Gofraidh Fionn Ó Dálaigh (fourteenth century), Dáibhí Ó Bruadair (seventeenth century) and Aogán Ó Rathaille (eighteenth century). Eibhlín Dubh Ní Chonaill (c. 1743 – c. 1800) was an outstanding poet in the oral tradition. The latter part of the nineteenth century saw a rapid replacement of Irish by English. By 1900, however, cultural nationalists had begun the Gaelic revival, which saw the beginnings of a modern literature in Irish. This was to produce a number of notable writers, including Máirtín Ó Cadhain, Máire Mhac an tSaoi and others. Irish-language publishers such as Coiscéim and Cló Iar-Chonnacht continue to produce scores of titles every year.\n\nIn English, Jonathan Swift (30 November 1667 – 19 October 1745), often called the foremost satirist in the English language, gained fame for works such as \"Gulliver's Travels\" and \"A Modest Proposal\". Other notable eighteenth century writers of Irish origin included Oliver Goldsmith and Richard Brinsley Sheridan, though they spent most of their lives in England. The Anglo-Irish novel came to the fore in the nineteenth century, featuring such writers as Charles Kickham, William Carleton, and (in collaboration) Edith Somerville and Violet Florence Martin. The playwright and poet Oscar Wilde, noted for his epigrams, was born in Ireland.\n\nIn the 20th century, Ireland produced four winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature: George Bernard Shaw, William Butler Yeats, Samuel Beckett and Seamus Heaney. Although not a Nobel Prize winner, James Joyce is widely considered to be one of the most significant writers of the 20th century. Joyce's 1922 novel \"Ulysses\" is considered one of the most important works of Modernist literature and his life is celebrated annually on 16 June in Dublin as \"Bloomsday\". A comparable writer in Irish is Máirtín Ó Cadhain, whose novel Cré na Cille is regarded as a modernist masterpiece and has been translated into several languages.\n\nModern Irish literature is often connected with its rural heritage through English-language writers such as John McGahern and Seamus Heaney and Irish-language writers such as Máirtín Ó Direáin and others from the Gaeltacht.\n\nMusic has been in evidence in Ireland since prehistoric times. Although in the early Middle Ages the church was \"quite unlike its counterpart in continental Europe\", there was considerable interchange between monastic settlements in Ireland and the rest of Europe that contributed to what is known as Gregorian chant. Outside religious establishments, musical genres in early Gaelic Ireland are referred to as a triad of weeping music (\"goltraige\"), laughing music (\"geantraige\") and sleeping music (\"suantraige\"). Vocal and instrumental music (e.g. for the harp, pipes, and various string instruments) was transmitted orally, but the Irish harp, in particular, was of such significance that it became Ireland's national symbol. Classical music following European models first developed in urban areas, in establishments of Anglo-Irish rule such as Dublin Castle, St Patrick's Cathedral and Christ Church as well as the country houses of the Anglo-Irish ascendancy, with the first performance of Handel's \"Messiah\" (1742) being among the highlights of the baroque era. In the 19th century, public concerts provided access to classical music to all classes of society. Yet, for political and financial reasons Ireland has been too small to provide a living to many musicians, so the names of the better-known Irish composers of this time belong to emigrants.\n\nIrish traditional music and dance has seen a surge in popularity and global coverage since the 1960s. In the middle years of the 20th century, as Irish society was modernising, traditional music had fallen out of favour, especially in urban areas. However during the 1960s, there was a revival of interest in Irish traditional music led by groups such as The Dubliners, The Chieftains, The Wolfe Tones, the Clancy Brothers, Sweeney's Men and individuals like Seán Ó Riada and Christy Moore. Groups and musicians including Horslips, Van Morrison and Thin Lizzy incorporated elements of Irish traditional music into contemporary rock music and, during the 1970s and 1980s, the distinction between traditional and rock musicians became blurred, with many individuals regularly crossing over between these styles of playing. This trend can be seen more recently in the work of artists like Enya, The Saw Doctors, The Corrs, Sinéad O'Connor, Clannad, The Cranberries and The Pogues among others.\n\nThe earliest known Irish graphic art and sculpture are Neolithic carvings found at sites such as Newgrange and is traced through Bronze age artefacts and the religious carvings and illuminated manuscripts of the medieval period. During the course of the 19th and 20th centuries, a strong tradition of painting emerged, including such figures as John Butler Yeats, William Orpen, Jack Yeats and Louis le Brocquy. Contemporary Irish visual artists of note include Sean Scully, Kevin Abosch, and Alice Maher.\n\nThe Irish philosopher and theologian Johannes Scotus Eriugena was considered one of the leading intellectuals of the early Middle Ages. Sir Ernest Henry Shackleton, an Irish explorer, was one of the principal figures of Antarctic exploration. He, along with his expedition, made the first ascent of Mount Erebus and the discovery of the approximate location of the South Magnetic Pole. Robert Boyle was a 17th-century natural philosopher, chemist, physicist, inventor and early gentleman scientist. He is largely regarded one of the founders of modern chemistry and is best known for the formulation of Boyle's law.\n\n19th century physicist, John Tyndall, discovered the Tyndall effect. Father Nicholas Joseph Callan, Professor of Natural Philosophy in Maynooth College, is best known for his invention of the induction coil, transformer and he discovered an early method of galvanisation in the 19th century.\n\nOther notable Irish physicists include Ernest Walton, winner of the 1951 Nobel Prize in Physics. With Sir John Douglas Cockcroft, he was the first to split the nucleus of the atom by artificial means and made contributions to the development of a new theory of wave equation. William Thomson, or Lord Kelvin, is the person whom the absolute temperature unit, the kelvin, is named after. Sir Joseph Larmor, a physicist and mathematician, made innovations in the understanding of electricity, dynamics, thermodynamics and the electron theory of matter. His most influential work was Aether and Matter, a book on theoretical physics published in 1900.\n\nGeorge Johnstone Stoney introduced the term \"electron\" in 1891. John Stewart Bell was the originator of Bell's Theorem and a paper concerning the discovery of the Bell-Jackiw-Adler anomaly and was nominated for a Nobel prize. The astronomer Jocelyn Bell Burnell, from Lurgan, County Armagh, discovered pulsars in 1967. Notable mathematicians include Sir William Rowan Hamilton, famous for work in classical mechanics and the invention of quaternions. Francis Ysidro Edgeworth's contribution of the Edgeworth Box remains influential in neo-classical microeconomic theory to this day; while Richard Cantillon inspired Adam Smith, among others. John B. Cosgrave was a specialist in number theory and discovered a 2000-digit prime number in 1999 and a record composite Fermat number in 2003. John Lighton Synge made progress in different fields of science, including mechanics and geometrical methods in general relativity. He had mathematician John Nash as one of his students. Kathleen Lonsdale, born in Ireland and most known for her work with crystallography, became the first female president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nIreland has nine universities, seven in the Republic of Ireland and two in Northern Ireland, including Trinity College, Dublin and the University College Dublin, as well as numerous third-level colleges and institutes and a branch of the Open University, the Open University in Ireland.\n\nGaelic football is the most popular sport in Ireland in terms of match attendance and community involvement, with about 2,600 clubs on the island. In 2003 it represented 34% of total sports attendances at events in Ireland and abroad, followed by hurling at 23%, soccer at 16% and rugby at 8%. The All-Ireland Football Final is the most watched event in the sporting calendar. Soccer is the most widely played team game on the island, and the most popular in Northern Ireland.\n\nOther sporting activities with the highest levels of playing participation include swimming, golf, aerobics, cycling, and billiards/snooker. Many other sports are also played and followed, including boxing, cricket, fishing, greyhound racing, handball, hockey, horse racing, motor sport, show jumping and tennis.\n\nThe island fields a single international team in most sports. One notable exception to this is association football, although both associations continued to field international teams under the name \"Ireland\" until the 1950s. The sport is also the most notable exception where the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland field separate international teams. Northern Ireland has produced two World Snooker Champions.\n\nGaelic football, hurling and handball are the best-known of the Irish traditional sports, collectively known as Gaelic games. Gaelic games are governed by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA), with the exception of ladies' Gaelic football and camogie (women's variant of hurling), which are governed by separate organisations. The headquarters of the GAA (and the main stadium) is located at the 82,500 capacity Croke Park in north Dublin. Many major GAA games are played there, including the semi-finals and finals of the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship and All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship. During the redevelopment of the Lansdowne Road stadium in 2007–10, international rugby and soccer were played there. All GAA players, even at the highest level, are amateurs, receiving no wages, although they are permitted to receive a limited amount of sport-related income from commercial sponsorship.\n\nThe Irish Football Association (IFA) was originally the governing body for soccer across the island. The game has been played in an organised fashion in Ireland since the 1870s, with Cliftonville F.C. in Belfast being Ireland's oldest club. It was most popular, especially in its first decades, around Belfast and in Ulster. However, some clubs based outside Belfast thought that the IFA largely favoured Ulster-based clubs in such matters as selection for the national team. In 1921, following an incident in which, despite an earlier promise, the IFA moved an Irish Cup semi-final replay from Dublin to Belfast, Dublin-based clubs broke away to form the Football Association of the Irish Free State. Today the southern association is known as the Football Association of Ireland (FAI). Despite being initially blacklisted by the Home Nations' associations, the FAI was recognised by FIFA in 1923 and organised its first international fixture in 1926 (against Italy). However, both the IFA and FAI continued to select their teams from the whole of Ireland, with some players earning international caps for matches with both teams. Both also referred to their respective teams as \"Ireland\".\nIn 1950, FIFA directed the associations only to select players from within their respective territories and, in 1953, directed that the FAI's team be known only as \"Republic of Ireland\" and that the IFA's team be known as \"Northern Ireland\" (with certain exceptions). Northern Ireland qualified for the World Cup finals in 1958 (reaching the quarter-finals), 1982 and 1986 and the European Championship in 2016. The Republic qualified for the World Cup finals in 1990 (reaching the quarter-finals), 1994, 2002 and the European Championships in 1988, 2012 and 2016. Across Ireland, there is significant interest in the English and, to a lesser extent, Scottish soccer leagues.\n\nUnlike soccer, Ireland continues to field a single national rugby team and a single association, the Irish Rugby Football Union (IRFU), governs the sport across the island. The Irish rugby team have played in every Rugby World Cup, making the quarter-finals in six of them. Ireland also hosted games during the 1991 and the 1999 Rugby World Cups (including a quarter-final). There are four professional Irish teams; all four play in the Pro14 and at least three compete for the Heineken Cup. Irish rugby has become increasingly competitive at both the international and provincial levels since the sport went professional in 1994. During that time, Ulster (1999), Munster (2006 and 2008) and Leinster (2009, 2011 and 2012) have won the Heineken Cup. In addition to this, the Irish International side has had increased success in the Six Nations Championship against the other European elite sides. This success, including Triple Crowns in 2004, 2006 and 2007, culminated with a clean sweep of victories, known as a Grand Slam, in 2009 and 2018.\n\nHorse racing and greyhound racing are both popular in Ireland. There are frequent horse race meetings and greyhound stadiums are well-attended. The island is noted for the breeding and training of race horses and is also a large exporter of racing dogs. The horse racing sector is largely concentrated in the County Kildare.\n\nIrish athletics has seen a heightened success rate since the year 2000, with Sonia O'Sullivan winning two medals at 5,000 metres on the track; gold at the 1995 World Championships and silver at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Gillian O'Sullivan won silver in the 20k walk at the 2003 World Championships, while sprint hurdler Derval O'Rourke won gold at the 2006 World Indoor Championship in Moscow. Olive Loughnane won a silver medal in the 20k walk in the World Athletics Championships in Berlin in 2009.\n\nIreland has won more medals in boxing than in any other Olympic sport. Boxing is governed by the Irish Athletic Boxing Association. Michael Carruth won a gold medal and Wayne McCullough won a silver medal in the Barcelona Olympic Games. In 2008 Kenneth Egan won a silver medal in the Beijing Games. Paddy Barnes secured bronze in those games and gold in the 2010 European Amateur Boxing Championships (where Ireland came 2nd in the overall medal table) and 2010 Commonwealth Games. Katie Taylor has won gold in every European and World championship since 2005. In August 2012 at the Olympic Games in London Katie Taylor created history by becoming the first Irish woman to win a gold medal in boxing in the 60 kg lightweight.\n\nGolf is very popular, and golf tourism is a major industry attracting more than 240,000 golfing visitors annually. The 2006 Ryder Cup was held at The K Club in County Kildare. Pádraig Harrington became the first Irishman since Fred Daly in 1947 to win the British Open at Carnoustie in July 2007. He successfully defended his title in July 2008 before going on to win the PGA Championship in August. Harrington became the first European to win the PGA Championship in 78 years and was the first winner from Ireland. Three golfers from Northern Ireland have been particularly successful. In 2010, Graeme McDowell became the first Irish golfer to win the U.S. Open, and the first European to win that tournament since 1970. Rory McIlroy, at the age of 22, won the 2011 U.S. Open, while Darren Clarke's latest victory was the 2011 Open Championship at Royal St. George's. In August 2012, McIlroy won his 2nd major championship by winning the USPGA Championship by a record margin of 8 shots.\n\nThe west coast of Ireland, Lahinch and Donegal Bay in particular, have popular surfing beaches, being fully exposed to the Atlantic Ocean. Donegal Bay is shaped like a funnel and catches west/south-west Atlantic winds, creating good surf, especially in winter. Since just before the year 2010, Bundoran has hosted European championship surfing. Scuba diving is increasingly popular in Ireland with clear waters and large populations of sea life, particularly along the western seaboard. There are also many shipwrecks along the coast of Ireland, with some of the best wreck dives being in Malin Head and off the County Cork coast.\n\nWith thousands of lakes, over of fish bearing rivers and over of coastline, Ireland is a popular angling destination. The temperate Irish climate is suited to sport angling. While salmon and trout fishing remain popular with anglers, salmon fishing in particular received a boost in 2006 with the closing of the salmon driftnet fishery. Coarse fishing continues to increase its profile. Sea angling is developed with many beaches mapped and signposted, and the range of sea angling species is around 80.\n\nFood and cuisine in Ireland takes its influence from the crops grown and animals farmed in the island's temperate climate and from the social and political circumstances of Irish history. For example, whilst from the Middle Ages until the arrival of the potato in the 16th century the dominant feature of the Irish economy was the herding of cattle, the number of cattle a person owned was equated to their social standing. Thus herders would avoid slaughtering a milk-producing cow.\n\nFor this reason, pork and white meat were more common than beef and thick fatty strips of salted bacon (known as rashers) and the eating of salted butter (i.e. a dairy product rather than beef itself) have been a central feature of the diet in Ireland since the Middle Ages. The practice of bleeding cattle and mixing the blood with milk and butter (not unlike the practice of the Maasai) was common and black pudding, made from blood, grain (usually barley) and seasoning, remains a breakfast staple in Ireland. All of these influences can be seen today in the phenomenon of the \"breakfast roll\".\n\nThe introduction of the potato in the second half of the 16th century heavily influenced cuisine thereafter. Great poverty encouraged a subsistence approach to food and by the mid-19th century the vast majority of the population sufficed with a diet of potatoes and milk. A typical family, consisting of a man, a woman and four children, would eat of potatoes a week. Consequently, dishes that are considered as national dishes represent a fundamental unsophistication to cooking, such as the Irish stew, bacon and cabbage, boxty, a type of potato pancake, or colcannon, a dish of mashed potatoes and kale or cabbage.\n\nSince the last quarter of the 20th century, with a re-emergence of wealth in Ireland, a \"New Irish Cuisine\" based on traditional ingredients incorporating international influences has emerged. This cuisine is based on fresh vegetables, fish (especially salmon, trout, oysters, mussels and other shellfish), as well as traditional soda breads and the wide range of hand-made cheeses that are now being produced across the country. An example of this new cuisine is \"Dublin Lawyer\": lobster cooked in whiskey and cream. The potato remains however a fundamental feature of this cuisine and the Irish remain the highest per capita consumers of potatoes in Europe. Traditional regional foods can be found throughout the country, for example coddle in Dublin or drisheen in Cork, both a type of sausage, or blaa, a doughy white bread particular to Waterford.\n\nIreland once dominated the world's market for whiskey, producing 90% of the world's whiskey at the start of the 20th century. However, as a consequence of bootleggers during the prohibition in the United States (who sold poor-quality whiskey bearing Irish-sounding names thus eroding the pre-prohibition popularity for Irish brands) and tariffs on Irish whiskey across the British Empire during the Anglo-Irish Trade War of the 1930s, sales of Irish whiskey worldwide fell to a mere 2% by the mid-20th century. In 1953, an Irish government survey, found that 50 per cent of whiskey drinkers in the United States had never heard of Irish whiskey.\n\nIrish whiskey, as researched in 2009 by the CNBC American broadcaster, remains popular domestically and has grown in international sales steadily over a few decades. Typically CNBC states Irish whiskey is not as smoky as a Scotch whisky, but not as sweet as American or Canadian whiskies. Whiskey forms the basis of traditional cream liqueurs, such as Baileys, and the \"Irish coffee\" (a cocktail of coffee and whiskey reputedly invented at Foynes flying-boat station) is probably the best-known Irish cocktail.\n\nStout, a kind of porter beer, particularly Guinness, is typically associated with Ireland, although historically it was more closely associated with London. Porter remains very popular, although it has lost sales since the mid-20th century to lager. Cider, particularly \"Magners\" (marketed in the Republic of Ireland as \"Bulmers\"), is also a popular drink. Red lemonade, a soft-drink, is consumed on its own and as a mixer, particularly with whiskey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14025591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14025591", "title": "Israeli Transverse Mercator", "text": "Israeli Transverse Mercator\n\nIsraeli Transverse Mercator ( \"Reshet Yisra'el Ha-Ḥadasha\"; ITM) is the new geographic coordinate system for Israel. The name is derived from the Transverse Mercator projection it uses and the fact that it is optimized for Israel. ITM has replaced the old coordinate system ICS. This coordinate system is sometimes also referred as the \"New Israeli Grid\". It is in use since January 1, 1994.\n\nITM replaced the old grid ICS which was based on the Cassini-Soldner projection. The central meridian in the new projection, as in the old one, crosses through Jerusalem. Replacing the projection eliminates two prominent drawbacks in the old network: assigning negative latitudinal values to the Southern Negev and the possibility of confusing coordinate values on the X and Y axes. The new system relocated the Y axis 50 km westward and the X axis 500 km southward so that now the entire country is covered by positive coordinate values.\n\nAdditional information on the creation of the new grid is available in Hebrew\n\nAn ITM coordinate is generally given as a pair of two six digit numbers (excluding any digits behind a decimal point which may be used in very precise surveying). The first number is always the Easting and the second is the Northing. The easting and northing are in metres from the false origin.\n\nThe ITM coordinate for the Western Wall at Jerusalem is:\n\nThe first figure is the easting and means that the location is 222,286 meters east from the false origin (along the X axis). The second figure is the northing and puts the location 631,556 meters north of the false origin (along the Y axis). Also notice how the easting in this example is indicated with an “E” and likewise an “N” for the northing. The fact that the coordinate is in meters is indicated by the lowercase m.\n\nThe table below shows the same coordinate in 3 different grids:\nThe ITM coordinate system is defined by the following parameters:\n\nProjection\n\nTransverse Mercator\n\nReference ellipsoid\nOrigin Point\nFalse Origin\n\nReference ellipsoid\nShift\nRotation\nScale\n\n"}
{"id": "46244406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46244406", "title": "Jakarta!", "text": "Jakarta!\n\nJakarta! is the first novel by writer Christophe Dorigné-Thomson, published by the Indonesian media conglomerate Kompas Gramedia Group in 2012.\n\n\"Jakarta!\" was widely promoted in the media and endorsed by major Indonesian figures such as businessman and owner of football club Inter Milan Erick Thohir, businessman Sandiaga Uno, politician Irman Gusman, Minister of Education Anies Baswedan and actor Rio Dewanto.\n\nThe novel tells the story of a young European who travels the world on missions paid by governments or multinationals to kill high-level targets. The book is in fact a disguised essay on geopolitical shifts and their consequences.\n\n"}
{"id": "36181737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36181737", "title": "Johannes Justus Rein", "text": "Johannes Justus Rein\n\nJohannes Justus Rein (January 27, 1835 in Raunheim, near Giessen – January 23, 1918 in Bonn) was a German geographer, author and traveler in East Asia. On the title page of \neach of his books, his name is given as either J.J. Rein or Johann J. Rein.\n\nHe was educated in mathematics and science at the University of Giessen. He made various scientific journeys in Europe, Asia, and America, and was appointed professor of geography at the University of Marburg in 1876, and subsequently at Bonn (1883).\n\nRein spent the first five months of 1874 in Japan, residing in the German Legation in Tokio [Tokyo] and studying lacquer. After submitting a detailed report on the subject, he traveled throughout Japan.\n\nHe wrote \"Japan, nach Reisen und Studien\" (2 volumes, 1881–86), which was translated into English, under the title, \"Japan: travels and researches undertaken at the cost of the Prussian government\" (1884), as was also his book on Japanese industries (1889). Another work was \"Columbus und seine vier Reisen nach Westen\" (“Columbus and his four trips to the West,” 1892).\n\n"}
{"id": "40480776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40480776", "title": "Kupinečki Kraljevec", "text": "Kupinečki Kraljevec\n\nKupinečki Kraljevec is a village in Central Croatia, located south of Zagreb. The population is 1,957 (census 2011).\n"}
{"id": "37819289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37819289", "title": "Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2", "text": "Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2\n\nKwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2 or Gwangmyeongseong-3 ho 2-hogi (; English: Bright Star-3 Unit 2 or Lodestar-3 Unit 2) is the first satellite successfully launched from North Korea, an Earth observation spacecraft that was launched on 12 December 2012, 00:49 UTC, in order to replace the original Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3, which failed to reach orbit on 13 April 2012. The United Nations Security Council condemned the satellite launch, regarding it as a violation of the ban on North Korean ballistic missile tests, as the rocket technology is the same.\n\nThe launch came during the period when the DPRK was commemorating the first anniversary of the death of former leader Kim Jong-il and just before the first South Korean domestic launch of a satellite and the South Korean presidential election on 19 December 2012. The successful launch makes the DPRK the tenth space power capable of putting satellites in orbit using its own launch vehicles.\n\nNorth Korea declared the launch successful, and the South Korean military and North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) reported that initial indications suggested that an object had achieved orbit. North Korea had previously claimed the Kwangmyŏngsŏng-1 and Kwangmyŏngsŏng-2 launches as successful, despite American military sources claiming that they failed to achieve orbit.\n\nSeveral days after the launch, Western sources stated that, while the satellite had indeed initially achieved orbit, it now seemed to be tumbling, and was probably out of control.\n\nThe name \"Kwangmyŏngsŏng\" is richly symbolic for North Korean nationalism and the Kim family cult. While Soviet records recount that the late North Korean leader Kim Jong-il was born in the village of Vyatskoye near Khabarovsk in the Russian Far East, DPRK internal sources claim that Kim was born on Mount Baekdu and that on that day a bright lodestar (\"kwangmyŏngsŏng\") appeared in the sky.\n\nThe launch of Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2 was the fourth North Korean attempt to orbit a satellite, and North Korea claimed that two of the previous launches had placed their payloads into orbit despite several other countries confirming that the launches had failed, and no independent confirmation that the satellite was in orbit. The first attempt occurred in August 1998, with a Baekdusan carrier rocket attempting to launch Kwangmyŏngsŏng-1; the second occurred in April 2009 with Kwangmyŏngsŏng-2, and the third in April 2012 with the original Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3. The April 2012 launch was the only one which North Korea acknowledged to have failed. However, the launch of Kwangmyongsong 3 Unit 2 made North Korea the tenth country to place a satellite into orbit using an indigenously developed carrier rocket. The rocket was largely made using domestically produced parts and technology; this ability is seen as cause for greater concern over North Korea's ability to develop ballistic missile technology despite sanctions.\n\nThe launch was announced on 1 December 2012, when the Korean Central News Agency reported that the Korean Committee of Space Technology informed them that they \"[plan] to launch another working satellite, second version of Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3, manufactured by its own efforts and with its own technology, true to the behests of leader Kim Jong-il,\" with a prospective launch window of 10–22 December 2012 given. The launcher splashdown zones were reported to the International Maritime Organization, indicating a polar orbit was intended.\n\nOn 8 December 2012, KCNA reported that the KCST answered the \"question raised by KCNA, as regards the launch of the second version of Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 satellite\" and also reported that the launch period was extended to 29 December 2012.\n\nNorth Korea claims the satellite would estimate crop yields and collect weather data as well as assess the country's forest coverage and natural resources. The country also claims that the satellite weighed about 100 kg (220 lbs) and that its planned lifetime was about two years.\n\nOn 12 December 2012, Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 was launched from the Sohae Satellite Launching Ground at 00:49:46 UTC (09:49 KST). The North American Aerospace Defense Command was able to track the rocket at this time. The first stage impacted the ocean off the west coast of South Korea at 00:58, with the fairing coming down one minute later downrange. At 01:01, the rocket flew over Okinawa, with the second stage impacting east of the Philippines four minutes later. During the ascent the rocket performed a dog-leg manoeuvre to increase its inclination sufficiently to attain sun-synchronous orbit.\n\nThe satellite was deployed into a sun-synchronous polar orbit with an apogee of , a perigee of , 97.4 degrees of orbital inclination, and an orbital period of 95 minutes and 29 seconds. The spacecraft separated from the rocket's third stage at 00:59:13; nine minutes and 27 seconds after liftoff.\n\nThe U.S. Space Command began to track three objects from the launch, giving Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 the Satellite Catalog Number 39026 and the international designator 2012-072A. They later began tracking a fourth object that was related to the launch.\n\nThe following day, U.S. officials tracking the satellite reported that it appeared to be \"tumbling out of control\" in its orbit. However South Korean sources said that the satellite was orbiting normally. Data collected by Spain, Italy and Britain suggest the brightness of the satellite has been fluctuating, which indicates it is tumbling as it orbits.\n\nSouth Korean missile experts examined components of the missile from the two stages of the rocket that fell back to Earth. Initially they reported the components were of poor quality and some foreign made. Further examination revealed that most of the components were produced domestically in North Korea. They were effective for the launch, but found mostly to be crude, unreliable, and inefficient. The rocket design was based on older technologies of the 1960s and 70s. The design of the rocket engine was almost identical to one built in Iran.\n\nAt noon local time, the Korean Central News Agency released a news report on the launch:\nThe report was followed by a more detailed report later in the afternoon stating:\nOn 20 December, the Korean Central Television aired a 27-minute documentary titled \"Successful Launch of Kwangmyongsong 3-2 under the Leadership of Dear Respected Marshal Kim Jong-Un\". The documentary showed footage of the preparations for the rocket launch and how Kim Jong-Un was involved in the preparations.\n\nGovernment vans with loudspeakers brought the news of the launch of Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 to Pyongyang soon after the launch. On 14 December state television in North Korea broadcast images of hundreds of thousands of people celebrating the successful launch in Pyongyang's central square, while military and scientific personnel gave speeches. According to the news report, Kim Jong-Un had ordered more satellite launches after achieving orbit with Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3.\n\nAccording to a report from Radio Free Asia, following the launch, the KCNA alerted people to watch a \"Special News\" announcement. Afterward people throughout the country were pulled from work and school to participate in mass celebrations. Those in Sinuiju, Pyongan were forced to dance in freezing weather to celebrate North Korea's success.\n\n\n\nOn 22 February 2013, the Permanent Mission of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations registered the satellite in conformity with the Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space. In the registration, North Korea states that the function is to survey crops, forest resources and natural disasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "32080438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080438", "title": "List of African poets", "text": "List of African poets\n\nThis is a list of African poets. Contemporary Africa has a range of important poets across many different genres and cultures. Poetry in Africa details more on the history and context of contemporary poetry on the continent.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "866033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866033", "title": "List of European regions with alternative names", "text": "List of European regions with alternative names\n\nMost regions and provinces of Europe have alternative names in different languages. Some regions have also undergone name changes for political or other reasons. This article attempts to give all known alternative names for all major European regions, provinces, and territories. It also includes some lesser regions that are important because of their location or history.\n\nThis article does not offer any opinion about what the \"original\", \"official\", \"real\", or \"correct\" name of any region is or was. Regions are (mostly) listed alphabetically by their current best-known name in English, which does not necessarily match the title of the corresponding article. The English version is followed by variants in other languages, in alphabetical order by name, and then by any historical variants and former names.\n\nForeign names that are the same as their English equivalents may be listed.\n\n\n\nwiktionary:de:Verzeichnis:Liste alternativer Städtenamen\n"}
{"id": "40014891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40014891", "title": "List of Expressways in Tehran", "text": "List of Expressways in Tehran\n\nThe list of Expressways in Tehran as of the middle of 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22225530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22225530", "title": "List of Presidents of the National Assembly of Benin", "text": "List of Presidents of the National Assembly of Benin\n\nList of Presidents of the National Assembly of Benin.\n\nBelow is a list of Presidents of the National Assembly of Dahomey:\n\nBelow is a list of Presidents of the Permanent Committee of National Revolutionary Assembly:\n\nBelow is a list of Presidents of the National Assembly of Benin:\n"}
{"id": "26172677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26172677", "title": "List of Ultras of North America", "text": "List of Ultras of North America\n\nThe following sortable tables comprise the 353 most topographically prominent mountain peaks of greater North America. Each of these summits has at least of topographic prominence. \n\nThis article defines greater North America as the portion of the continental landmass of the Americas extending westward and northward from the Isthmus of Panama plus the islands surrounding that landmass. This article defines the islands of North America to include the coastal islands of North America, the islands of the Caribbean Sea, the Lucayan Archipelago, the Bermuda Islands, the Islands of Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat), the islands of Northern Canada, the islands of Alaska, and the islands of the northeastern Pacific Ocean. The Hawaiian Islands are not included because they are considered part of Oceania.\n\nTopographic elevation is the vertical distance above the reference geoid, a mathematical model of the Earth's sea level as an equipotential gravitational surface. The topographic prominence of a summit is the elevation difference between that summit and the highest or key col to a higher summit. The topographic isolation of a summit is the minimum great-circle distance to a point of equal elevation.\n\nThis article defines a significant summit as a summit with at least of topographic prominence, and a major summit as a summit with at least of topographic prominence. An ultra-prominent summit is a summit with at least of topographic prominence.\n\nAll elevations in the 48 states of the contiguous United States include an elevation adjustment from the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD 29) to the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88). For further information, please see this United States National Geodetic Survey note. If a summit elevation or prominence has a range of values, the arithmetic mean is cited.\n\nDenali is one of only three summits on Earth with more than of topographic prominence. Mount Logan exceeds of prominence. Four peaks of greater North America exceed , ten exceed , 17 exceed , 34 exceed , 100 exceed , and the following 353 ultra-prominent summits exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf these 353 ultra-prominent summits of North America, 143 are located in Canada, 122 in the United States, 38 in Greenland, 26 in México, eight in Honduras, six in Guatemala, four in El Salvador, three in Costa Rica, three in the Dominican Republic, two in Haiti, two in Nicaragua, and one each in Jamaica, Cuba, and Panamá. Six of these peaks lie on the Canada-United States border and one lies on the El Salvador-Honduras border.\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 353 ultra-prominent summits of greater North America. Each of these peaks has at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nDenali is one of only three summits on Earth with more than of topographic prominence. Mount Logan exceeds of prominence. Four peaks of greater North America exceed , ten exceed , 17 exceed , 34 exceed , 100 exceed , and the following 353 ultra-prominent summits exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf the 353 ultra-prominent summits of North America, 143 are located in Canada, 122 in the United States (excluding six in Hawaii), 38 in Greenland, 26 in México, eight in Honduras, six in Guatemala, four in El Salvador, three in Costa Rica, three in the Dominican Republic, two in Haiti, two in Nicaragua, and one each in Jamaica, Cuba, and Panamá. Six of these peaks lie on the Canada-United States border and one lies on the El Salvador-Honduras border. Additional references for the 200 most prominent of these summits can be found on the List of the most prominent summits of North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19392820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19392820", "title": "List of first ascents in the Sierra Nevada (U.S.)", "text": "List of first ascents in the Sierra Nevada (U.S.)\n\nThis list of first ascents in the Sierra Nevada can be sorted by any listed characteristic. The route taken and its Yosemite Decimal System rating are given where known. The only criterion for inclusion is the historic notability of the climb when it was completed. Both first ascents of summits by any route, and first ascents of technical non-summit routes, are listed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52874805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52874805", "title": "List of programs broadcast by Disney Channel (Canada)", "text": "List of programs broadcast by Disney Channel (Canada)\n\nThis is a list of television programs broadcast by Disney Channel, a Canadian version of the United States cable channel of the same name. Its French-language feed, La chaîne Disney, has a slightly different schedule than the English-language version.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19490999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19490999", "title": "Lucien Gallois", "text": "Lucien Gallois\n\nLucien Louis Joseph Gallois (21 February 1857 – 21 March 1941) was a French geographer born in Metz.\n\nHe was a student at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris, where he took classes from Paul Vidal de la Blache (1845–1918). In 1884 he received his agrégation, later becoming a lecturer at the Sorbonne (1893). From 1898 to 1907 he was a professor of geography at the École Normale Supérieure, and afterwards a professor at the Sorbonne, where he remained until his retirement in 1927.\n\nGallois made major contributions to the \"Annales de géographie\", a geographical journal that he co-founded with his mentor, Paul Vidal de la Blache. Following the death of Vidal de la Blache in 1918, he assumed directorship of \"Géographie universelle\", a major project involving regional geography of the entire world. \n\nGallois had a keen interest in the fields of cartography and history of geography, as made evident by an influential 1890 study on German geographers of the Renaissance titled \"Les géographes allemands de la Renaissance\". Another noted publication of his was \"Régions naturelles et noms de pays: Étude sur la région Parisienne\" (Natural regions and country names: A study of the Paris region).\n\n"}
{"id": "12530501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12530501", "title": "Mirrors of the Unseen", "text": "Mirrors of the Unseen\n\nMirrors of the Unseen: Journeys in Iran (2006) is a travel book written by British travel writer Jason Elliot.\n\n"}
{"id": "24409761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24409761", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Poland", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Poland\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Poland (PL), the three levels are:\n\nPlease note that the regional coding below does not correspond to the most recent version of the NUTS2013 coding. The current coding as well as the history can be found under http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/nuts/history\n\nIn the 2015 version, the codes are as follows:\nIn the 2008 version, the codes were as follows:\n\nIn the 2003 version, the codes were as follows:\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Poland can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29505301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29505301", "title": "Novopangaea", "text": "Novopangaea\n\nNovopangaea or Novopangea (Greco-Latin for \"New Pangaea\") is a possible future supercontinent postulated by Roy Livermore (now at the University of Cambridge) in the late 1990s. It assumes closure of the Pacific, docking of Australia with East Asia, and northward motion of Antarctica.\n\nPaleogeologist Ronald Blakey has described the next 15 to 100 million years of tectonic development as fairly settled and predictable but no supercontinent will form in that time frame. Beyond that, he cautions that the geologic record is full of unexpected shifts in tectonic activity that make further projections \"very, very speculative\". In addition to Novopangaea, two other hypothetical supercontinents—\"Amasia\" and Christopher Scotese's \"Pangaea Ultima\"—were illustrated in an October 2007 \"New Scientist\" article.\n\n"}
{"id": "33703941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33703941", "title": "Parque Natural Obô de São Tomé", "text": "Parque Natural Obô de São Tomé\n\nThe Obô Natural Park of São Tomé () is a natural park of São Tomé and Príncipe, covering of the island of São Tomé. It was established in 2006. It has not yet been assigned to a IUCN protected area category. It covers parts of the districts of Caué, Lemba, Lobata and Mé-Zóchi.\n\nThe Natural Park covers three geographically separated zones:\nThe park is known internationally amongst conservationists for its biologically rich dense virgin rainforests. It is also characterized by a wide range of biotopes, from lowland and mountain forests, to mangroves and savanna area, which contribute to its unique ecosystem. The park includes virgin Atlantic high altitude rainforest and secondary rainforest (known to locals as \"capoeira\") which contains abandoned plantations.\n\nIn 1988, scientists classified the forests of São Tomé and Príncipe as the second most important in terms of biological interest out of 75 forests of Africa; most of the species found in the islands are found in the national park. The WWF has listed the forests of the national park as among the Global 200, the 200 most important biological areas on the planet. The forest of Obo is listed as an Important Bird Area (IBA) of Africa.\n\nThere are about 700 plant species on the island of São Tomé, of which 95 endemic. Flora includes the evergreen coniferous \"Afrocarpus mannii\". Orchids, ferns and mosses are common in the area.\n\nThere are 16 endemic bird species on the island, including São Tomé olive pigeon (\"Columba thomensis\"), São Tomé ibis (\"Bostrychia bocagei\"), São Tomé fiscal (\"Lanius newtoni\"), São Tomé shorttail (\"Amaurocichlia bocagei\"), São Tomé grosbeak (\"Crithagra concolor\"), Giant sunbird (\"Dreptes thomensis\"), São Tomé oriole (\"Oriolus crassirostris\") and São Tomé thrush (\"Turdus olivaceofuscus\"). The amphibians \"Ptychadena newtoni\", \"Hyperolius thomensis\", \"Hyperolius molleri\", \"Phrynobatrachus leveleve\", and \"Schistometopum thomense\" are found in the park. The shrew \"Crocidura thomensis\" is the only endemic terrestrial mammal. There are three endemic species of bats: São Tomé collared fruit bat (\"Myonycteris brachycephala\"), São Tomé free-tailed bat (\"Chaerephon tomensis\"), and São Tomé leaf-nosed bat (\"Hipposideros thomensis\"). Invertebrates include the moths \"Theretra viridis\", \"Hyalobathra barnsalis\" and \"Pseudoclanis tomensis\" and the ant \"Tetramorium renae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6158115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6158115", "title": "Retjenu", "text": "Retjenu\n\nRetjenu (\"rṯnw; Reṯenu, Retenu\"), was an Ancient Egyptian name for Canaan and Syria. It covered the region from the Negev Desert north to the Orontes River. The borders of Retjenu shifted with time, but it generally consisted of three regions. The southernmost was Djahy, which had about the same boundaries as Canaan. Lebanon proper was located in the middle, between the Mediterranean and the Orontes River. North of Lebanon was designated Amurru, the land of the Amorites.\n\nThe earliest attestation of the name occurs in the \"Tale of Sinuhe,\" inscribed on a piece of limestone in 14th century BC.\n"}
{"id": "57872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57872", "title": "San Juan, Puerto Rico", "text": "San Juan, Puerto Rico\n\nSan Juan (; ; \"Saint John\") is the capital and most populous municipality in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, an unincorporated territory of the United States. As of the 2010 census, it is the 46th-largest city under the jurisdiction of the United States, with a population of 395,326. San Juan was founded by Spanish colonists in 1521, who called it \"Ciudad de Puerto Rico\" (\"Rich Port City\"). Puerto Rico's capital is the second oldest European-established capital city in the Americas, after Santo Domingo, in the Dominican Republic. Several historical buildings are located in San Juan; among the most notable are the city's former defensive forts, Fort San Felipe del Morro and Fort San Cristóbal, and La Fortaleza, the oldest executive mansion in continuous use in the Americas.\n\nToday, San Juan is Puerto Rico's most important seaport and is the island's manufacturing, financial, cultural, and tourism center. The population of the Metropolitan Statistical Area, including San Juan and the municipalities of Bayamón, Guaynabo, Cataño, Canóvanas, Caguas, Toa Alta, Toa Baja, Carolina and Trujillo Alto, is about 2 million inhabitants; thus, about half the population of Puerto Rico now lives and works in this area. San Juan is also a principal city of the San Juan-Caguas-Fajardo Combined Statistical Area. The city has been the host of events within the sports community, including the 1979 Pan American Games; 1966 Central American and Caribbean Games; events of the 2006, 2009 and 2013 World Baseball Classics; the Caribbean Series and the Special Olympics and MLB San Juan Series in 2010.\n\nIn 1508, Juan Ponce de León founded the original settlement which he called Caparra. It was named after the Province of Cáceres in Spain, the birthplace of Nicolás de Ovando, then the Governor of Spain's Caribbean territories, Today it is part of the Pueblo Viejo sector of Guaynabo, just to the west of the present San Juan metropolitan area. A year later, the settlement was moved to a site then called Puerto Rico, Spanish for \"rich port\" or \"good port\", after its similar geographical features to the town of Puerto Rico of Gran Canaria in the Canary Islands. In 1521, the newer settlement was given its formal name: \"Puerto Rico de San Juan Bautista\".\n\nThe ambiguous use of \"San Juan Bautista\" and \"Puerto Rico\" for both the city and the island in time led to a reversal in practical use by most inhabitants: by 1746 the name for the city (Puerto Rico) had become that of the entire island, leading to the city being identified as \"Puerto Rico de Puerto Rico\" on maps of the era.\n\nSan Juan, as a settlement of the Spanish Empire, was used by merchant and military ships traveling from Spain as the first stopover in the Americas. Because of its prominence in the Caribbean, a network of fortifications was built to protect the transports of gold and silver from the New World to Europe. Because of the rich cargoes, San Juan became a target of the foreign powers of the time.\n\nThe city was witness to attacks from the English led by Sir Francis Drake in 1595 (in what is known as the Battle of Puerto Rico) and by George Clifford, Earl of Cumberland, in 1598. Artillery from San Juan's fort, El Morro, repelled Drake; however, Clifford managed to land troops and lay siege to the city. After a few months of English occupation, Clifford was forced to abandon the siege when his troops began to suffer from exhaustion and sickness. In 1625 the city was sacked by Dutch forces led by Captain Balduino Enrico (also known as Boudewijn Hendricksz/Bowdoin Henrick), but El Morro withstood the assault and was not taken. The Dutch were counterattacked by Captain Juan de Amézqueta and 50 members of the civilian militia on land and by the cannons of the Spanish troops in El Morro Castle. The land battle left 60 Dutch soldiers dead and Enrico with a sword wound to his neck which he received from the hands of Amézqueta. The Dutch ships at sea were boarded by Puerto Ricans who defeated those aboard. After a long battle, the Spanish soldiers and volunteers of the city's militia were able to defend the city from the attack and save the island from an invasion. On October 21, Enrico set La Fortaleza and the city ablaze. Captains Amézqueta and Andrés Botello decided to put a stop to the destruction and led 200 men in an attack against the enemy's front and rear guard. They drove Enrico and his men from their trenches and into the ocean in their haste to reach their ships.\n\nThe British attack in 1797, during the French Revolutionary Wars, led by Sir Ralph Abercromby (who had just conquered Trinidad). His army laid siege to the city but was forced to withdraw in defeat as the Puerto Rican defenses proved more resilient than those of Trinidad. Various events and circumstances, including liberalized commerce with Spain, the opening of the island to immigrants as a direct result of the Royal Decree of Graces of 1815, and the colonial revolutions, led to an expansion of San Juan and other Puerto Rican settlements in the late 18th and early 19th century.\n\nOn May 8, 1898, United States Navy ships, among them the , , , , and , commanded by Rear Admiral William T. Sampson arrived at San Juan Bay. The USS \"Yale\" captured a Spanish freighter, the \"Rita\" in San Juan Bay, thus being the first hostile encounter between the warring sides in Puerto Rico. On May 9, \"Yale\" fought a brief battle with an auxiliary cruiser of Spain, name unknown, resulting in a Spanish victory. Around this time, Captain Ángel Rivero Méndez was assigned the command of the Spanish forces in the fortress of San Cristóbal in San Juan. On May 10, the \"Yale\" returned to San Juan Bay, Rivero-Méndez ordered his men to open fire upon the using an Ordoñez 15 centimeter cannon, thus becoming the first attack against the Americans in Puerto Rico during the Spanish–American War. For his actions, Captain Rivero-Mendez was awarded the \"Cruz de la Orden de Merito Militar\" (The Cross of the Order of the Military Merit) first class. The residents of San Juan were furious with Rivero and blamed him for the destruction caused to their city by the American bombardments. Nothing came of those accusations and Capt. Rivero-Méndez was ordered to turn over the keys of all the military installations in San Juan to Captain Henry A. Reed of the U.S. Army after the Treaty of Paris of 1898 was signed. On July 25, General Nelson A. Miles landed at Guánica (in southwestern Puerto Rico) with 3,300 soldiers in what was known as the Puerto Rican Campaign. The American troops found some resistance and engaged the Spanish and Puerto Rican troops in battle, the most notable of these the battles of Yauco and Asomante. All military actions in Puerto Rico were suspended August 13, 1898, after President William McKinley and French Ambassador Jules Cambon, acting on behalf of the Spanish government, signed an armistice. Spain ceded the island to the United States later the same year by signing the Treaty of Paris.\n\nCamp Las Casas, located in the district of Santurce, served as the main training camp for the Puerto Rican soldiers prior to World War I and World War II; the majority of the men trained in this facility were assigned to the \"Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry\" which was renamed the 65th Infantry Regiment of the United States Army by the Reorganization Act of June 4, 1920. The 65th Infantry was deactivated in 1956 and became the only unit ever to be transferred from an active Army component to the Puerto Rico National Guard.\nLieutenant Teófilo Marxuach (Retired as a Lieutenant Colonel), a native of Arroyo, Puerto Rico, fired the first shot in what is considered to be the first shot of World War I fired by the regular armed forces of the United States against any ship flying the colors of the Central Powers Marxuach, who was a member of the \"Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry\" and Officer of the Day, on March 25, 1915, opened fire on the \"Odenwald\", an armed German supply vessel, when it was trying to force its way out of San Juan's bay. The shots ordered by Lt. Marxuach were the first fired by the United States in World War I.\n\nIn 1919, Félix Rigau Carrera, \"El Aguila de Sabana Grande\" (The Eagle from Sabana Grande), the first Puerto Rican pilot, became the first native Puerto Rican to fly an aircraft in the island when he flew his Curtiss JN-4 from Las Casas. At the time, the area was used by the military as an air base and it was also Puerto Rico's first commercial airport, and Rigau Carrera was allowed to perform his historic flight from the air field. Camp Las Casas was eventually closed down, and in 1950 a public housing project by the name of Residencial Fray Bartolome de Las Casas was constructed on its former location.\n\nOn January 2, 1947, the people of San Juan elected Felisa Rincón de Gautier (also known as Doña Fela) (1897–1994) as their mayor. Thus, she became the first woman to be elected as the mayor of a capital city in any of The Americas. During the Cold War era, she ordered the establishment of the island's first Civil Defense system under the directorship of Colonel Gilberto José Marxuach (Teófilo's son). Rincón de Gautier served as mayor until January 2, 1969.\n\nOn October 30, 1950, San Juan was the scene of the San Juan Uprising, one of many uprisings which occurred in various towns and cities in Puerto Rico, by the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party against the governments of Puerto Rico and the United States. Among the uprising's main objective was to attack \"La Fortaleza\" (the Governors mansion) and the United States Federal Court House Building in Old San Juan. In accordance to the planned uprising in San Juan, a group of nationalists were supposed to attack simultaneously the gubernatorial mansion La Fortaleza, where Puerto Rican governor Luis Muñoz Marín resided, and the United States Federal Court House which is located close to an area called \"La Marina\" in Old San Juan. The La Fortaleza battle, which ensued between the nationalists and the police lasted 15 minutes, and ended when four of the five attackers were killed.\n\nOn March 8, 1948 the city government of San Juan officially adopted as the city's first flag an orange field, in the center of which is the Coat of Arms of the City. The orange color was based and taken from Father Diego de Torres Vargas' text and it reads : \"Escudo de armas dado a Puerto Rico por los Reyes Católicos en el año de 1511, siendo Procurador un vecino llamado Pedro Moreno. Son : un cordero blanco con su banderilla colorada, sobre un libro, y todo sobre una isla verde, que es la de Puerto Rico, y por los lados una F y una I, que quiere decir Fernando e Isabel, los Reyes Católicos que se las dieron, y hoy se conservan en el estandarte real, que es de damasco anaranjado, con que se ganó la ciudad\" (\"Coat of Arms given to Puerto Rico by the Catholic Monarchs in the year 1511 being Procurator a vecino named Pedro Moreno. They are: a white lamb with a red flag, on top of a book, and everything above a green island, which is Puerto Rico...which is of orange damask, with which the city was won\"). It appears that the color was changed from orange to white at some point.\n\nSan Juan is located along the north-eastern coast of Puerto Rico. It lies south of the Atlantic Ocean; north of Caguas and Trujillo Alto; east of and Guaynabo; and west of Carolina. The city occupies an area of , of which, (37.83%) is water. San Juan's main water bodies are San Juan Bay and two natural lagoons, the Condado and San José.\n\nSan Juan has a tropical monsoon climate and enjoys an average temperature of although or higher temperatures are seen on an average 79 days annually, more commonly occurring during the wetter months of the northern summer, especially if the winds come from the south. In the winter, temperatures can drop to around , though the average winter low is . The coolest temperature officially recorded was on March 3, 1957, and the hottest was on October 9, 1981; the record cold daily maximum is on February 4, 1935, while the record warm daily minimum is on August 11, 1995, the most recent of four occasions. Rainfall is well-distributed throughout the year, but the months of January, February, and March are the driest; as March averages just of rain, the city falls under the tropical monsoon category. Rainfall averages , falling on an average 198.5 days per year; despite this dampness, the city averages 2,970 hours of sunshine per year, or just over ⅔ of the possible total. Annual rainfall has historically ranged from in 1991 to in 2010.\n\nThe architecture of San Juan is very diverse, due to its size and all the cultural influences received during its existence. The oldest part of the city, known as Old San Juan, mostly features the influence of Spanish architecture. This part of the city is comprised by a network of \"setted\" roads usually surrounded by ancient, two-storied houses built on masonry. Some colonial structures have been restored and serve either as government offices or museums. Some examples are the Ballajá Barracks, which now serve as museum and headquarters of several cultural organizations; La Fortaleza, which has served as the residence of the Governor of Puerto Rico since the 16th Century; and the Ancient Welfare Asylum, which now houses the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture, among others. Old San Juan also features several public squares, like the Plaza de Armas, located in front of San Juan City Hall; and cathedrals, like the Cathedral of San Juan Bautista. Old San Juan is also notable for being partly enclosed by massive walls and fortifications built by the Spanish government.\n\nThe architecture is more varied in other districts of the city. The district of Santurce features a lot of influence from art deco, while the districts of Hato Rey feature more modern structures.\n\nWhat is now known as Old San Juan occupied the western end of a rocky islet, the Isleta de San Juan, at the mouth of San Juan Bay. During the 20th century, the main population centers surged well beyond the walls of the old city and onto Puerto Rico's main island, and merged with the existing settlements east and south of Old San Juan. With the annexation of Río Piedras in 1951, the municipality of San Juan grew four times its previous size. As a result, the city is now composed of a variety of districts and neighborhoods. San Juan is now subdivided into 18 districts (barrios), 16 of which fall within the former municipality of Río Piedras. Eight districts are further subdivided into sectors (sub-barrios), including two districts in the area that covered the original municipality of San Juan. The 18 districts are:\nDuring the Spanish colonial times most of the urban population resided in what is now known as Old San Juan. This sector is located on the western half of a small island called the \"Isleta de San Juan\", which is connected to the mainland by two bridges and a causeway. The small island, which comprises an area of , also hosts the working-class neighborhood of Puerta de Tierra and most of Puerto Rico's central government buildings, including the Commonwealth's Capitol.\n\nThe main central part of the city is characterized by narrow streets made of blue cobblestone and picturesque colonial buildings, some of which date back to the 16th and 17th century. Sections of the old city are surrounded by massive walls and several defensive structures and notable forts. These include the 16th-century Fort San Felipe del Morro and the 17th-century Fort San Cristóbal, both part of San Juan National Historic Site, and the 16th-century El Palacio de Santa Catalina, also known as La Fortaleza, which serves as the governor's mansion. Other buildings of interest predating the 20th century are the \"Ayuntamiento or Alcaldía\" (City Hall), the \"Diputación Provincial\" and the \"Real Intendencia\" buildings, which currently house the Puerto Rico Department of State, the Casa Rosa, the San José Church (1523) and the adjacent Hotel El Convento, the former house of the Ponce de León family known as Casa Blanca, the Teatro Tapia, the former Spanish barracks (now Museum of Ballajá), \"La Princesa\" (former municipal jail, now headquartering the Puerto Rico Tourism Company), and the Santa María Magdalena de Pazzis Cemetery, located just outside the city walls. The Cathedral of San Juan Bautista (construction began in the 1520s) is also located in Old San Juan, and contains the tomb of the Spanish explorer and settlement founder Juan Ponce de León. Old San Juan, also known as the \"old city\", is the main cultural tourist attraction in Puerto Rico; its bayside is lined by dock slips for large cruise ships.\n\nEast of Old San Juan lies the wealthy tourist-oriented neighborhood of Condado, which occupies land that used to be owned by entrepreneur Pablo Ubarri Capetillo, a Spanish railroad developer and Count of San José de Santurce under the Spanish colonial period. Beaches such as nearby Ocean Park, popular with swimmers, surfers and kitesurfers, are found all along the district's Atlantic coastline which is also the locus of numerous hotels.\n\nNear Condado are two separate business districts, Santurce and Miramar. Miramar is mainly a residential area rising south of the Condado Lagoon. It comprises the former \"barrio\" of Miraflores, as well as drained marshland and landfill over which was built San Juan's first airport, the Isla Grande airport, which was renamed Fernando Luis Ribas Dominicci Airport in honor of Major Fernando Luis Ribas-Dominicci (USAF). Miramar now hosts the Puerto Rico Convention Center as well as some of San Juan Harbor's cruise ship piers. In 2005 Miramar was designated an historical district of Puerto Rico.\n\nSanturce, originally named \"San Mateo de Cangrejos\" (Saint Matthew of the Crabs), was a settlement for freed African slaves during the early days of the city. After Pablo Ubarri sought permission to link San Juan with Río Piedras proper via steam tramway in 1878, the time it took to travel between both points were shortened and thereby stimulated the colonization and growth of the district. At the beginning of the twentieth century an electric trolley was installed, the township was split into three parts, and its main settlement, merged with the city, was renamed using the Spanish spelling of Santurtzi (\"Saint George\" in Basque), Ubarri's birthplace in Vizcaya, Spain. The \"Museo de Arte de Puerto Rico\" (Puerto Rico Museum of Art) and other important cultural venues are located in Santurce.\n\nSouth of Santurce is Hato Rey, part of the former municipality of Río Piedras. Hato Rey was grazing ground for cattle owned by the royal government (hence its name, the \"King's Herd\" in Spanish) as early as the 16th century, and is now considered the financial center of the island. A section of this district is often referred to as \"Milla de Oro\" (actually long) due in part to the many banks and businesses located there.\n\nIn the southern part of the city is the socially diversified community of Río Piedras. Founded in the mid-1850s, Río Piedras was a separate town which hosted sugar cane plantations and the estates of some of San Juan's wealthiest inhabitants (as well as their working class staff). The Spanish colonial governors also had their summer home there on land which eventually gave way to the main campus of the University of Puerto Rico. In 1951 the municipalities of San Juan and Río Piedras were merged to redefine San Juan's current city limits. Today Río Piedras comprises the largest area of the municipality of San Juan. and is home to the \"Plaza del Mercado\" (Río Piedras Marketplace), the main campus and the Medical Sciences campus of the University of Puerto Rico and the San Juan Botanical Garden.\n\nSan Juan is the largest city in Puerto Rico by population. From 1899 to 1950 the municipality of San Juan excluded the township of Río Piedras. For this reason, population data and land area for the period make reference only to the Antiguo San Juan and Santurce \"barrios\", or subdivisions, of San Juan. The old municipality of Río Piedras constituted the third most populated city of Puerto Rico at the time of its annexation in 1951. Its strategic location south of the capital served as a junction for all the principal ways of transportation of the island and as a geographical entry to San Juan, which are factors that prompted Río Piedras's dramatic urban development in the 20th century.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, the racial composition of San Juan was as follows:\n\nAmong the Hispanic and Latino population, Puerto Ricans are, unsurprisingly, the largest group; they make up 87.5% of San Juan's Hispanic population. People of Dominican descent made up 12.2% of the Hispanic population, while those of Cuban descent formed 1.7% of the Hispanic populace. Other Hispanic and Latino groups collectively formed 3.2% of San Juan's Hispanic population.\n\nThere are 13,304 whites of non-Hispanic origin living in San Juan; 10,571 blacks of non-Hispanic origin living in San Juan. Non-Hispanic whites and blacks form 3.2% and 2.6% of San Juan's population respectively. There are also approximately 562 Asians of non-Hispanic origin in San Juan; they make up only 0.1% of the population. However, Asians of Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin together number at 6,342. The vast majority of Asians in San Juan are of Chinese descent; of the 6,342 Asians, 4,928 are Chinese. Chinese comprise 1.4% of the population. The only other sizable Asian group in San Juan are Indian Americans; there are 698 people of Indian descent in the city, forming 0.2% of the population. There are very small numbers of people of Filipino, Japanese, and Vietnamese ancestry; none of these groups number more than 100 members.\n\nAccording to the 2006–2008 American Community Survey, 87.5% of San Juan's population was native and 12.5% were foreign-born. Of the native population, 86.9% were born in Puerto Rico or the United States, of which 75.6% were born in Puerto Rico and 8.9% were born in the United States. The remaining 0.7% were born in a U.S. territory or were born abroad to American parents. The remaining 11.9% of the population were born outside the United States, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories. In recent years, an increasing number of Americans not of Hispanic ancestry (both of African American and of White American descent) have moved to San Juan. In addition, a large number of Stateside Puerto Ricans have settled in the city upon their return to Puerto Rico. There is also a growing West Indian population, both of Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin.\n\nIn terms of ancestry, 23,875 people claimed American ancestry, which is equivalent to 5.8% of San Juan's population. Other sizable ancestry groups included those of Italian descent, French descent, and West Indian descent. People of Italian descent numbered at 1,694, forming 0.4% of the population; people of French descent numbered at 1,064, forming 0.2% of the population. Finally, those of West Indian descent numbered at 1,393, forming 0.3% of San Juan's population. Approximately 1,026 people claimed Sub-Saharan African ancestry; 719 claimed Irish ancestry; 646 claimed German ancestry; 431 claimed Arab ancestry, and 346 claimed English ancestry. There are many other ancestry groups in San Juan, but they are very scant.\n\nSan Juan experienced significant economic growth following World War II. During this period the city underwent an industrial revolution, although as of 1984 it had never generated its own economic region. The city's economy relies mostly on companies dedicated to the manufacture of several products, including: Chemical substances (bleach and house cleaning products); medicines; rum and other beverages; fertilizers; electric tools; electronic devices; plastics, textiles, and food-based products. Tourism is also a key industry, based on San Juan's proximity to Puerto Rico's main airport, the Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport.\nThe tourism focus of the city is located in the district of Condado Beach where there are luxurious hotels. Historical locations such as El Morro, Old San Juan and El Cuartel de Ballaja are promoted in tourism campaigns. The district of Hato Rey contains a corporate sector known as \"La Milla de Oro\", (The Golden Mile) which serves as the headquarters of local and international banks. San Juan's Hato Rey district is often referred to as the \"Wall Street of the Caribbean\", due to the influence of the area on Puerto Rico and the Caribbean's economy.\n\nSeaborne Airlines is headquartered on the 9th floor of the World Plaza Building in San Juan.\n\nTechnological advances after World War II in the development of the airliner, coupled with the island's climate and natural setting, have transformed San Juan into the springboard for tourism around the island, and has made the rest of the Caribbean known throughout the world during the last fifty years. Today the capital features hotels, museums, historical buildings, restaurants, beaches and shopping centers. In San Juan there are tourist attractions, including: Old San Juan, Ocean Park, Isla Verde and Condado.\n\nPlaces and monuments emphasized in tourism campaigns include: Old San Juan, promoting the historic nature of its colonial buildings and narrow streets covered by adoquine, a blue stone cast from furnace slag; they were brought over as ballast on Spanish ships. This includes the city's ancient defensive wall and forts, most notably El Morro and the Castillo San Cristóbal. On January 23, 1984 both of these edifices were catalogued as being part of humanity's cultural patrimony. The restaurants and art galleries in the zone are visited by tourists. The local universities are promoted as historic places, most notably the campus of University of Puerto Rico located in Río Piedras, which is the oldest university on the island being founded in 1903.\n\nSan Juan is the birthplace of artists and musicians, locally known as \"Sanjuaneros\", who have significantly influenced Puerto Rican culture. During the 20th century, the musical aspect of the city was influenced by performers including Afro-Caribbean dancer and choreographer Sylvia del Villard and José Enrique Pedreira who became a composer of Puerto Rican Danzas. International musicians such as opera singer Justino Díaz and Grammy Award winners Ramón Ayala (Daddy Yankee) and Ricky Martin were born in the city. Other notable residents include writers Giannina Braschi and Tomas Blanco, award-winning actors Raúl Juliá and Benicio del Toro, and comedian José Miguel Agrelot. Rafael Cordero (1790–1868), was influential in the development of Puerto Rican education and has been once renowned as \" The Father of Public Education in Puerto Rico\". The city is also the home of contemporary and classic art museums. The Puerto Rico Arts Museum owns the largest collection of contemporary art in Puerto Rico, housing over 1,100 permanent art pieces and displaying temporary exhibitions containing artwork from various locations through Latin America.\n\nThe Puerto Rico Museum of Contemporary Art, located in Santurce, specializes in contemporary artwork from Latin America and the Caribbean. The paintings displayed in the permanent exhibition are either acquired by the museum's administrative personnel or donated by artists and collectors. They are judged by a panel of painters, art critics, and scholars before being displayed.\n\nOther museums such as the Pablo Casals Museum, the Book Museum, Americas Museum and the National Gallery display historic items and artwork alongside contemporary art. Miscellaneous museums such as the Children's Museum and the Bacardi Distillery (also known as the \"Rum Cathedral\") in nearby Cataño appeal to different audiences through interactive exhibitions.\n\nAs one of Puerto Rico's 78 municipalities, San Juan's government consists of two branches, the executive and the legislative. Those citizens eligible to vote directly elect a mayor and the municipal assembly for four-year terms. The municipal government is housed in City Hall or \"Casa Alcaldia\", which is located at 153 San Francisco Street, facing the Plaza de Armas at the center of Old San Juan. City Hall was constructed based on Madrid's City Hall starting in 1604 and finally completed in 1789.\n\nThe executive branch is headed by a popularly elected mayor. The office is currently held by Carmen Yulín Cruz, who was elected at the 2012 general election. Before her, Jorge A. Santini held the position for 12 years. In addition to running the city's day-to-day operations and supervising associated departments, the mayor is responsible for appointing a secretary-auditor and a treasurer. San Juan's Municipal Legislature is made up of 17 municipal legislators, elected at-large, which represent the city's population.\n\nSan Juan is also the seat of the Puerto Rico Senatorial district I, which is represented by two Senators. In 2012, José Nadal Power and Ramón Luis Nieves were elected as District Senators.\n\nIn 2010 there were 201 slayings in San Juan, a rate of around 50 per 100,000 residents. Law enforcement in San Juan is the joint responsibility of the Department of Police and Public Safety, also known as the San Juan Police Department and the Puerto Rico Police Department. The Municipal Police, originally known as the \"San Juan Municipal Guard\", was created in 1521 and has active military and law enforcement functions, until 1980 when act #77 created municipal law enforcement agencies in Puerto Rico. It currently employs over 1,000 sworn officers plus civilian staff.\n\nSan Juan is home to many of Puerto Rico's institutions of higher learning. The University of Puerto Rico Río Piedras Campus is located in San Juan, along with the University of Puerto Rico's Medical Sciences Campus. Other colleges located in San Juan are the University of the Sacred Heart, the Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico, the Ana G. Méndez University System's Metropolitan University, the Metropolitan Campus of the Inter American University of Puerto Rico, the Carlos Albizu University, the Evangelic Seminary of Puerto Rico and the Center for Advanced Studies on Puerto Rico and the Caribbean. There are smaller colleges located in the city, including the ICPR Junior College, the \"Instituto de Banca y Comercio\" and the International Junior College, located in Santurce. There are also several technical schools based in San Juan, including the Technological College of San Juan, the \"Liceo de Artes y Ciencias\", Ramirez College of Business and Technology, and the Puerto Rico Technical Junior College. The Puerto Rico Conservatory of Music and the School of Fine Arts in Old San Juan specialize in education that promotes the fine arts and music.\n\nAlso, San Juan is home to 136 public schools operated by the Puerto Rico Department of Education. Most of the specialized schools operated by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico are located in San Juan. These schools emphasize topics such as Science and Math, Radio and Television, Arts, Trade, Music, and Sports, but also include other subjects such as Spanish, English, and Social Studies in their curriculum. In addition to dozens of state-run elementary, intermediate, and high schools, the government of the city of San Juan operates two bilingual schools, including one sports-magnet school, the first municipal-run schools in Puerto Rico. Several private schools are located in San Juan, including Robinson and St. John's schools in the Condado, Perpetuo Socorro in Miramar, St. John's Episcopal, Santa Mónica and Academia San Jorge in Santurce, Commonwealth High School, La Merced and Espíritu Santo in Hato Rey, Escuela Josefita Monserrate de Selles, San Antonio, Colegio San Ignacio de Loyola, San José in Río Piedras and Cupeyville, St. Mary's, Boneville and Cupey Maria Montesory School in Cupey.\n\nThe Port of San Juan is the fourth busiest seaport in the Western Hemisphere, ranked among the top 17 in the world in terms of container movement. It is also the largest home-based cruise port in the world with over a dozen cruise ships. It is the second busiest port in cruise volume after Miami.\n\nThe Metropolitan Area is served by two airports. The Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport, San Juan's primary commercial airport, is located eight miles () from Old San Juan in the neighboring municipality of Carolina. The airport accommodates more than 30 domestic and international airlines and is the busiest airport in the Caribbean. It is often referred to as \"The Gateway to the Caribbean\" because it serves as the main connection to the island and the rest of the Caribbean for the United States and vice versa. The area's secondary airport is the Fernando Ribas Dominicci Airport, which is located directly across the San Antonio Creek or \"Cano San Antonio\" from Old San Juan in the Isla Grande district. Dominicci Airport is used mainly by general aviation aircraft, charter flights, and some domestic commercial flights. It used to be the city's and also the island of Puerto Rico's main international gateway until the opening of Luis Muñoz Marin International Airport. It is now also widely used by the Isla Grande Flight School and Caribbean Flight Center, the only flight school on the island.\n\nAt 4,300 vehicles per paved mile, San Juan has by far the highest density of vehicles on the road of any country in the world. The city is served by five limited-access expressways and highways and numerous arterial avenues and boulevards, but continues to suffer from severe traffic congestion.\n\nThe Metropolitan Bus Authority (\"Autoridad Metropolitana de Autobuses\" or \"AMA\" in Spanish) provides daily bus transportation to residents of San Juan, Guaynabo, Bayamón, Toa Baja, Trujillo Alto, Cataño and Carolina through 30 fixed routes. Its fleet consists of 277 regular buses and 35 handicap-accessible buses. AMA's ridership is estimated at 112,000 on weekdays. There is also a daily ferry service, known as the Cataño Ferry (\"La Lancha de Cataño\"), which operates between Old San Juan and the town of Cataño.\nIn an attempt to decrease vehicle dependency and road congestion, the city built a metro system dubbed \"Tren Urbano\" (\"Urban Train\"). The line connects to 16 stations. The project, which opened in late 2004, cost $2.25 billion and was more than $1 billion over budget and four years late. The Tren Urbano has received less ridership than was originally projected and has not significantly reduced the city's automobile traffic, despite a reported 7.5% ridership increase in 2006 over 2005. There is a planned project to build a \"interurban light rail system\" connecting the cities of San Juan and Caguas.\n\nIncreased investment in public transportation, however, has not changed the fact that San Juan is an automobile-reliant city and its fast growth has sparked urban sprawl. As of mid-2010, the government has approved plans for a redesign of this Puerto Rican city, featuring a new mass transit system, new roads and intersections, and more beach-access points. No cars will be allowed inside the oldest part of city (Old San Juan). The plans hope to remedy previous poor urban planning in the oldest section of the city, the Isleta, while curbing reliance on motor vehicles. The plans for redevelopment also hope to make the city more appealing in order to attract new residents, as San Juan has suffered from a shrinking population over the past 60 years.\n\nSan Juan has an elaborate system of triage, hospital, and preventive care health services. The municipal government sponsors regular health fairs in different areas of the city focusing on health care for the elderly and the disabled. There are 20 hospitals in San Juan, half of them operated by the government. The largest hospital in San Juan and most important of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean is the Rio Piedras Medical Center, or Centro Medico de Rio Piedras in Spanish. This hospital, founded in 1956, is operated by the Medical Services Administration of the Department of Health of Puerto Rico. It is made up of eight other hospitals.\n\n\nThe city of San Juan operates 10 hospitals. Of these, nine are Diagnostic and Treatment Centers located in communities throughout San Juan. The main hospital is located at Centro Medico. These 10 hospitals are:\n\nAlso, there are 10 private hospitals in San Juan. These are:\n\nTeams based in San Juan have been notably successful in athletic competition. The Santurce Crabbers won the National Superior Basketball League championship in 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2003 during this period being recognized as a dynasty. The San Juan Senators and the Santurce Crabbers were the two major baseball teams in the city, winning the championship of the Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League a total of seventeen times. The Santurce Crabbers are located third among teams with more championships in the Caribbean Series, winning championships in the 1951, 1953, 1955, 1993 and 2000 editions of the tournament. The city has also been the host of events within the sports community; some examples include:\n\n\nThe recently built $28 million San Juan Natatorium is beginning to attract islandwide and regional swim meets, as well winter training by top-rated mainland U.S. colleges and universities, including the United States Military Academy at West Point and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.\n\nIn July 2007, the San Juan Golf Academy and its driving range began operating atop the city's former sanitary landfill in Puerto Nuevo and will eventually include the city's first and only 9-hole golf course.\n\nSan Juan is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "54149374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54149374", "title": "Smithfield General Market", "text": "Smithfield General Market\n\nSmithfield General Market is a market hall in the Smithfield District of London, and one of the five buildings of Smithfield Market. It was designed by Horace Jones in the 19th century but was damaged during the Second World War and became disused.\n\nIn March 2015, the Museum of London revealed plans to vacate its Barbican site and move into the General Market Building. The cost of the move is estimated to be in the region of £70 million and, if funding can be achieved, would be complete by 2021.\n"}
{"id": "36100350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36100350", "title": "Stadsgården", "text": "Stadsgården\n\nStadsgården commonly refers to the wharf on the shore of the Baltic Sea in Stockholm, Sweden, located between Slussen in the west and Masthamnen in the east. The word \"gård\" in the name comes from \"skeppsgård\", which was a word used in archaic Swedish for an area used for port and dock operations.\n\n\"Stadsgården\" (\"Stadens skeppgård\") originally constituted only the western, broader part of the shore, near to a steep cliff face on Fjällgatan. The name is credited to have first occurred in 1448, in a text mentioning \"en tompt vppa sudra malm belegna vidh Stadz garden\". At least from the early 14th century, so called \"tran boats\" or \"seal boats\" lay fastened to poles on the water around the area. In the boats, seal fat from the Stockholm archipelago and the Bothnian Sea was cooked, and the resulting whale oil from this smelly contraption was packed in cans and sold further. The boats were left until the start of the 17th century.\n\nA certain building, containing stables, was prominent in the area. In Stockholm's privilege letter from 1594, proposals to tear down this building to give place for ship construction docks were mentioned:\n\nShip construction on the area was probably started in 1687 when the \"Södra varvet\" in Tegelviken was founded. In the \"Karta öfver S:ta Catharina församling\" from 1674, a long row of narrow lots towards Saltsjön is visible, but no road connecting them. On the map, Tegelvik remains a bay, bearing the name \"Skjeps-hwarfwet\". In the 17th and 18th centuries, the name \"Skeppsbron\", or \"Nya Skeppsbron\", is also mentioned, relating to Skeppsbron in Gamla stan.\n\nIn an attempt by city architect Johan Eberhard to improve the Stadsgården docks in the end of the 1730s, a long wooden wharf was built. From the wharf, hay, wheat, wood and coal were distributed to be transported across the sea. In wintertime, the wharf was used by many \"vinterliggarna\".\n\nWork to replace the wooden wharf by a stone construction proceeded very slowly because of the great depth of water. From 1875 to 1882, a new wooden wharf was built instead, resting on three rows of poles, with a length of 528 metres. Railway tracks were laid down on the wharf and connected with the \"Sammanbildingsbanan\" in Stockholm and the Skeppsbro wharf track. A magazine was built in 1883, and from 1888 to 1889 the \"Lilla Tullhuset\" was built. During the name revision in 1885, the name for the area between Slussen and Tegelviksplan was established as \"Stadsgården\", having previously (1849) been called Stadsgårdhamnen.\n\nIn the late 19th century, a railway track, Saltsjöbanan, was built and completed on 1 July 1893. The Stadsgården railway station was in use from 23 December 1893 to 21 December 1936, when it was moved to Slussen. The station building, dating from 1914, was sold to Stockholm's Christian Seaman Care, and the building became known as \"Sjömansinstitutes hus\".\n\nWork between 1911 and 1915 replaced the old wooden wharf with a granite-enforced concrete wharf, which was 12 metres longer than the old wharf. At the same time, the sea bed around the wharf was scooped.\n\nThe traffic way \"Stadsgårdleden\" was named in 1986 and replaced a large part of the older traffic way. The traffic way is about 1.3 km long, and the way from Söder Mälarstrand passes by Södra Järngraven, Saltsjörampen, Franska bukten, Stadsgårdhamnen, Katarinabergen and Tegelviksslingan. The major attraction in the west is the Katarina Elevator and in the east, the cliff with Fåfängan on its top. Stadsgårdhissen is located halfway between Slussen and Tegelviksplan, and from there, the 638-metre Stadsgårdtunneln, located on the Saltsjöbanan railway track, begins. Today, \"Stadsgården\" refers to the 300-metre road part connection Östra Slussgatan with Stadsgårdleden. Along \"Stadsgårdhamnen\", the Stockholm city wharves can be found, with terminals for cruise ferries and ferries to Finland, including the Viking Line terminal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49872294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49872294", "title": "Tayap", "text": "Tayap\n\nTayap is a small village of Cameroon located in the Centre Region, between the country’s capital Yaounde (86 km) and Douala (164 km). The village of Tayap is part of the Ngog-Mapubi district of the Nyong-et-Kéllé department.\n\nSituated in the north-western zone of the forest of the Congo Basin, the world’s second-largest rain forest after the Amazon, the village of Tayap has suffered from deforestation in Cameroon caused by different factors like the increase in population growth, the development of logging, the collection of firewood and the practice of slash-and-burn.\n\nSince 2011, Tayap has been the site of a pilot project of agroecology and ecotourism aiming to protect its biodiversity and lands and to develop activities which generate income for its residents.\n\nThe village of Tayap is located at 3°49°2.067’’N and 10°54'5.106’’E. Tayap borders the villages of Omog and Mamb to the North, Mamb Kelle and Song Mpeck to the West, Lamal Pougue to the East and Nlep be and Ngong to the South.\n\nTayap is situated 86 km from Yaounde (12 km from Boumnyebel on motorway N3 Douala-Yaounde) and extends along a bush road a dozen kilometers long joining the main Douala-Yaounde road. Tayap is connected to the N3 Douala-Yaounde motorway by a path which is not regularly maintained, which makes travel difficult in the rainy season. The village of Tayap is situated 6 kilometers from Omog.\n\nTayap enjoys a humid climate of the equatorial type in four seasons: two dry seasons and two wet seasons. The main wet season takes place between August and October, and the minor wet season from March to May. The main dry season is from November to February and the minor dry season in June and July. The nearest meteorological station is at Eseka about 20 km to the South-West of Tayap. The mean annual temperature is 25C. Rainfall varies between 1,500 and 2,500 mm a year.\n\nThe village of Tayap is characterized by a mean altitude of about 350 meters and by hills with steep slopes. It demonstrates an undersoil rich in silicate rock (quartzite) and magnetic rocks like pyrites and micaschist.\n\nTayap is rich in speleological sites. On its hill, which is more than 544 meters high, are to be found grottos or rocks which have been physically deformed to create a series of displaced scales. One of the grottos contains nests of bald rockfowl, a bird threatened with extinction. One of the rocks, of triangular shape, forms a genuine shelter at a height of more than 100 meters and acted as a refuge for Cameroonian nationalists during the Cameroon’s struggle for independence.\n\nTayap is situated in the Northern zone of the forest of the Congo Basin. Vegetation is essentially woodland. Two types of forests coexist: the primary forest met at the peaks of the hills and the secondary forest which results from the destruction of primary forests for agriculture or forestry. The forest of the Congo Basin suffers damage from deforestation in very specific areas This deforestation is explained first of all by the important development of forestry, an economic alternative which the Cameroon has found to compensate for falling prices of cocoa and coffee, its main resources in 1990, but also by the practice of cultivation on burned ground which goes on in intertropical forest zones. The annual rate of deforestation in Cameroon varies between 0.5 and 1.2 per cent a year. In absolute terms, estimates of annual deforestation vary between 80,000 and 200,000 hectares The village of Tayap still has 1,400 hectares of forest up to 1,200 meters, or about 30% of its area. Essentially, it subsists on the peaks of hills.\n\nIn the aftermaths of World War II, Cameroon was placed under the protection of France and Britain and obtained, like Togo, the status of associated territory of the French Union. From the 1940s and 1950s onwards, the Union of the Peoples of Cameroon (UPC), a national liberation movement led by Ruben Um Nyobe, played a central role in Cameroon’s progress towards independence. In 1955, following violence which caused the deaths of many Cameroonians, the UPC was dissolved and its leaders began resistance. The area around Tayap was one of the bastions of nationalist resistance in the Bassa led by Ruben Um Nyobe. According to the historian of postcolonialism, Achille Mbembe, the village of Ngog included after 1956 fifteen or so of its inhabitants who were engaged in resistance in the bush.\n\nTayap is a chieftainate of the third degree In Cameroon, traditional chieftainates are a scale of administrative organization. Chieftainates were micro-states before colonization and can be of first, second or third degree according to their territorial or historic importance. To date, the last chief of the village, Germain Francois Yogo, died on 17 June 2008. Ever since, the village has been without a chief. A transparent election should be organized by the Cameroon government in order to furnish the village with a democratically elected chief. The functioning, management and development of the village are currently led by the Association of inhabitants of the villages of Omog and Tayap (AROTAD).\n\nTwo parties coexist in the village: the Union of the Peoples of Cameroon (UPC) and the Cameroon People's Democratic Movement (RDPC). At the time of the last linked legislative and municipal elections which took place in Cameroon on 30 September 2013, the UPC received 32% of the vote compared with 68% for the RDPC.\n\nTayap contained 254 inhabitants (57 households) comprising 132 men (52%) and 122 women (48%) at the last census in 2010.10 The population of Tayap represents 2.5% of the population of the commune of Ngog Mapubi. A majority of the population are young and for the most part comprise Bassa people, plus a minority (8%) made up of other Cameroon tribes (Bamenda, Bamileke, Hausa, Beti). It is distributed along the roads and pathways in a multitude of hamlets. The latter are from 0.5 to 2 kilometers from each other. The two main agglomerations are central Tayap and Libolo. The village comprises about sixty houses.\n\nTayap does not possess any health establishments. The nearest health centre is at Boumnyebel, 12 km from Tayap. The nearest hospital is at Yaounde (86 km from Tayap).\n\nThe village of Tayap is provided with drinking water by three pits or sink holes worked by a hand pump with a lever. The water is then taken in buckets or jerrycans to wherever it will be used. The village of Tayap is not electrified despite the presence of a high tension line at the village of Omog. The absence of electricity is an important obstacle to the development of Tayap. The very light winds do not allow a wind-power solution. On the other hand, there is no river with hydroelectric potential close to the village (except at about 8k, accessible only by a bush path).\n\nIn 2003, Tayap was equipped with a primary school constructed by the local population. The school welcomed 34 pupils from the age of six for its first year of operation, and 75 since 2010. The school is mid-way (about 1.5 km) between the hamlets of Libolo and Tayap. In April 2006, the Cameroon government provided two extra classrooms, taking the total number of public school classrooms in Tayap to four. Each class includes two levels, in order to offer all six levels of primary education. After primary school, pupils from the village continue their education in secondary schools (CES) at Lamal-Pougoue or Mamb.\n\nThe population of Tayap is mainly Catholic or Protestant Christian. Two places of worship exist in the village: a Cameroon Presbyterian church and a catholic church.\n\nThe population of Tayap retains four elements of its culture:\n\n\nIn 2013, the active population reached 179 persons. Most jobs in the village are based on agriculture.\n\nAgriculture is the main source of income for the village of Tayap. Trade in non-timber forest products is also carried out. Economic activity concentrates on agriculture with its cultures of investment (cocoa and palm oil), food-production (plantains, cassava, cocoyam, taro, peanuts, bananas) fruit (bush pear, mango, lemon, orange, grapefruit, papaya, kola nuts) and market gardening (pimento, vegetables). These products are traded at Boumnyebel and Yaounde.\n\nThe population of Tayap also practices the raising of small animals, fishing and hunting. Tayap has 6 units for pressing palm oil and mutual microfinance. With the construction of two ecolodges and the recognition of existing guest houses, an offer of eco-tourism is in the process of becoming established as an activity which generates extra income for the village. Illegal exploitation of the forest is also a means of subsistence for certain members of the village.\n\nSince 2011, Tayap has been the site of a pilot project to develop agro-ecology and ecotourism as part of the struggle against deforestation, to protect the biodiversity of the village lands and to develop activities which generate income for the inhabitants. This project, called The Ecological Orchards of Tayap, in 2011 received the SEED prize awarded by the SEED initiative (Supporting Entrepreneurs for Environment and Development), a world partnership for sustainable development created in 2002 by UNEP, the UNDP and the IUCN at the world summit on sustainable development in Johannesburg\n\nBetween 2014 and 2015, the project allowed th restoration of 110 hectaresof forest, organized into 3 green classes to welcome children from the locality and create a few green jobs for young people. On the ground, two ecogites allow tourists to be welcomed with the aim of developing the eco-tourism offer as an alternative source of income for the locals. A renewable fund of 1,000,000 francs has likewise been put in place by the community with the support of the UNDP’s GEF SPG in order to allocate microcredits to women, and also to finance entrepreneurial initiatives.17 A series of strip cartoons which present the adventure of Tayap development and the problems of African villages facing deforestation and cultivation on burned ground has likewise been created within the framework of the project.\n\nIn 2015, the AFD (French Development Agency) and the CIRAD (Centre for international cooperation in agronomical research for development) awarded the Ecological Orchards of Tayap “Agriculture and Forests Climate Challenge” prize for Lessening of climatic disruption in agriculture. In 2016, the ISTF Innovation Prize from Yale University was awarded to the project.\n\nTayap is located about an hour from Yaounde and two hours from Douala along the motorway which links them. The line of the Douala-Yaounde railwayline does not serve the village of Tayap.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5922211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5922211", "title": "Telephone numbers in South Korea", "text": "Telephone numbers in South Korea\n\nTelephone numbers in South Korea are organized and assigned using the following scheme.\n\n\nFor example;\n\nSouth Korea uses an open dialing plan with a total length (including 0) of 9 to 11 digits and, within city, subscriber numbers 7 to 8 digits long. Dialing from mobile phones to any type of phone except 010 numbers, the area code must be included.\n\nIn 1998, telephone numbers in Seoul starting with 2 and 6 added more digit (02-2XX-YYYY to 02-22XX-YYYY, 02-6XX-YYYY to 02-26XX-YYYY). Before area codes were shortened from 4 digit to 2~3 digit in June 2000, there were 1 digit exchange number (usually \"2\") with some 2 digit exchange numbers so some phone numbers like 0347-61-XXXX, 0443-2-XXXX or 0525-40-XXXX existed. (now 031-761-XXXX, 043-652-XXXX and 055-340-XXXX)\n\n\n\n\nBefore June 2000, South Korea used 2 to 4 digit area codes.\n\nIt is not necessary to dial any carrier prefix before making a domestic long-distance call.\nThese prefixes are needed only when you want to choose a different carrier other than your default long-distance carrier (usually the same company that provides your phoneline).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48553225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48553225", "title": "Timeline of Plovdiv", "text": "Timeline of Plovdiv\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Plovdiv, Bulgaria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the Bulgarian Wikipedia and German Wikipedia.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "196705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196705", "title": "USS Enterprise (1874)", "text": "USS Enterprise (1874)\n\nThe fifth USS \"Enterprise\", a barque-rigged screw sloop, was launched 13 June 1874 at Portsmouth Navy Yard, Kittery, Maine, US, by John W. Griffiths, a private contractor; and commissioned 16 March 1877, Commander George C. Remey in command. She was later commanded by Bowman H. McCalla around 1890, followed by Commander Albert S. Barker from 1892-1896.\n\n\"Enterprise\"'s first duty after fitting out at Norfolk, Virginia, took her to the mouth of the Mississippi River for surveying operations. Returning to Norfolk in April 1878, she remained there only briefly, sailing 27 May for surveying duty up the Amazon and Madeira Rivers. On 1 October 1878 off the coast of Pará, Brazil, Seaman Thomas Smith rescued a fellow sailor from drowning, for which he was awarded the Medal of Honor. This surveying duty completed, she repaired at New York City, then in December 1878 joined the U.S. naval forces in European waters, calling at numerous ports in northern Europe and in the Mediterranean. She returned to the Washington Navy Yard on 9 May 1880 and was placed out of commission.\n\nRecommissioned on 12 January 1882, she cruised the east coast until 1 January 1883 when she sailed on a three-year hydrographic survey that took her completely around the world. During this time, she was commanded by Albert S. Barker. Her findings on this cruise added materially to the knowledge of the oceans, their currents, and their bottoms. During the journey she was a neutral witness of the Battle of Fuzhou on 23 August 1884 during the Sino-French War. \"Enterprise\" was decommissioned at New York on 21 March 1886.\n\nPlaced back in commission on 4 October 1887, \"Enterprise\" sailed from Boston in January 1888 for two years in the waters of Europe, the Mediterranean, and the east coast of Africa, where she showed the flag and looked out for United States' interests. She returned to New York in March 1890 and was decommissioned on 20 May.\n\n\"Enterprise\" was again commissioned 8 July 1890, and for the next year operated principally in the Caribbean. From September 1891 until September 1892, she served as training and practice ship at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland. On 17 October 1892 at Boston, she was lent to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for duty as a school ship at the Massachusetts Maritime Academy. In that capacity she trained cadets for some 17 years (the current MMA training ship was named USTS \"Enterprise' in honor of her until the name was changed to USTS \"Kennedy\"). Returned to the Navy on 4 May 1909, \"Enterprise\" was sold on 1 October 1909. The hulk was burned for salvage near Boston in 1910\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2615615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615615", "title": "Villingili", "text": "Villingili\n\nVillingili as a place name may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "870983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870983", "title": "Wakhan", "text": "Wakhan\n\nWakhan or \"the Wakhan\" (also spelt Vakhan; Persian and , \"Vâxân\" and \"Wāxān\" respectively; , \"Vaxon\") is a very mountainous and rugged part of the Pamir, Hindu Kush and Karakoram regions of Afghanistan. Wakhan District is a district in Badakshan Province.\n\nWakhan people are also located in Pakistan, Gilgit, upper Hunza Gojal Velly, where numerous people speaks wakhi and they have different culture which include dance, food, festival and much more. \nThe Wakhan is located in the extreme north-east of Afghanistan. It contains the headwaters of the Amu Darya (Oxus) River, and was an ancient corridor for travellers from the Tarim Basin to Badakshan.\n\nUntil 1883 the Wakhan included the whole valley of the Panj River and the Pamir River, as well as the upper flow of the Panj River known as the Wakhan River. An 1873 agreement between UK and Russia split the Wakhan by delimiting spheres of influence for the two countries at the Panj and Pamir rivers, and an agreement between Britain and Afghanistan in 1893 confirmed the new border. Since then, the name Wakhan is now generally used to refer to the Afghan area south of the two rivers. The northern part of the historic Wakhan is now part of the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Province in Tajikistan.\n\nThe only road into the Wakhan is a rough track from Ishkashim past Qila-e Panja to Sarhad-e Broghil. Paths lead from the end of the road to the Wakhjir Pass, a mountain pass leading to China which is closed to travellers.\n\nThe western part of the Wakhan, between Ishkashim and Qila-e Panja, is known as \"Lower Wakhan\", which includes the valley of the Panj River. The valleys of the Wakhan River, the Pamir River and their tributaries, and the terrain between, are known as \"Upper Wakhan\".\n\nThe eastern extremity of Upper Wakhan is known as the \"Pamir Knot\", the area where the Himalayas, Tian Shan, Karakoram, Kunlun, and Hindu Kush ranges meet. West of the Pamir Knot is the Little Pamir, a broad U-shaped grassy valley 100 km long and 10 km wide, which contains Chaqmaqtin Lake, the headwaters of the Aksu or Murghab River. At the eastern end of the Little Pamir is the Tegermansu Valley, from where the closed Tegermansu Pass (4,827 m) leads to China. The Great Pamir or \"Big Pamir\", a 60 km long valley south of Zorkol lake, drained by the Pamir River, lies to the northwest of the Little Pamir.\n\nThe mountain range that divides the two Pamirs is known as the Nicholas Range. West of the Nicholas Range, between the Great Pamir and the lower valley of the Wakhan River, is the \"Wakhan Range\", which culminates in the \"Koh-e Pamir\" (6,320 m).\n\nThe roads in the region have small shrines to Ismaili Muslim pirs and are adorned with \"special stones and curled ibex and sheep horns\", which are symbols of purity in the Zoroastrian faiths, once present in the region before the arrival of Islam.\n\nThe Wakhan is connected to Tashkurgan Tajik County, China, by a long, narrow strip called the Wakhan Corridor, which separates the Gorno-Badakhshan region of Tajikistan from the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit-Baltistan of Pakistan.\n\nThe Wakhan River flows through the corridor from the east to Qila-e Panja where it joins the Pamir River to become the Panj River which then forms the border.\n\nIn the south the corridor is bordered by the high mountains of the Hindu Kush, crossed by the Broghol pass, the Irshad Pass and the disused Dilisang Pass to Pakistan.\n\nHistorically the Wakhan has been an important region for thousands of years as it is where the Western and Eastern portions of Central Asia meet.\n\nWestern Wakhan (休密 \"Xiumi\") was conquered in the early part of the 1st century CE by Kujula Kadphises, the first \"Great Kushan,\" and was one of the five \"xihou\" or principalities that formed the nucleus of the original Kushan kingdom.\n\nUntil 1883 Wakhan was a principality on both sides of the Panj and Pamir Rivers, ruled by a hereditary ruler (\"mir\") with his capital at Qila-e Panja. In the 1880s (1880-1895 ), under pressure from Britain, Abdur Rahman Khan the Emir of Afghanistan imposed Afghan rule on the Wakhan.\n\nAgreements between Britain and Russia in 1873 and between Britain and Afghanistan in 1893 effectively split the historic area of Wakhan by making the Panj and Pamir Rivers the border between Afghanistan and the Russian Empire. On its south side, the Durand Line agreement of 1893 marked the boundary between British India and Afghanistan. This left a narrow strip of land as a buffer between the two empires.\n\nIn 1949, when Mao Zedong completed the Communist takeover of China, the borders were permanently closed, sealing off the 2,000-year-old caravan route and turning the corridor into a cul-de-sac. When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in December 1979, they occupied the Wakhan and built strong military posts at Sarhad-e Broghil and elsewhere. To facilitate access they built a bridge across the Pamir River at Prip, near Gaz Khan. However, the area did not see fighting.\n\nIn 2010 the Wakhan was reported to be peaceful and unaffected by the war in the rest of Afghanistan.\n\nWakhi, Kyrgyz and Khowar are the major ethnic groups of Wakhan.\nWakhan is sparsely populated. The total population is estimated at about 10,600. Most of its inhabitants speak the Vakhi or Wakhi language (x̌ik zik), and belong to an ethnic group known as Vakhi or Wakhi. Nomadic Kyrgyz herders live at the higher altitudes.\n\nAccording to a 2003 report by the United Nations Environment Programme and Food and Agriculture Organization, the population of Wakhan suffers from lack of education, poverty, ill health, food insecurity and opium addiction.\n\nThe Wakhi population of Wakhan was 9,444 in 2003. Almost all of them adhere to the Shia Ismaili faith and some of them speak Ishkashimi language. Wakhi people also inhabit several areas adjacent to the Wakhan in Tajikistan, Pakistan and China.\n\nThe Wakhi practice agriculture in the river valleys, and herd animals in the summer pastures at higher elevations.\n\nThe dominant sect of Islam in the region is Ismaili, much milder than the strict form of Islam generally practiced in the country. However, in Ishkashim, the city at the western mouth of the Wakhan, stricter observance is demanded. The area has been long neglected by the central government of Afghanistan and the people are poor, many being traditional pastoralists living in yurts and lacking basic services. However non-governmental organizations such as the Aga Khan Development Network have taken an interest in the area. The Central Asia Institute, founded by Greg Mortenson, has built 11 schools in the region.\n\nThere is a trickle of tourists who engage in trekking and mountaineering.\n\nAlastair Leithead on BBC News 24 on 26 December 2007, presented a half-hour feature about Wakhan, focusing particularly on the work of expatriate British Doctor Alexander Duncan, which provided a significant piece of extended media reporting from this inaccessible area. He has also covered the Pamir Festival in the area.\n\nThe Kyrgyz population of Wakhan was 1,130 in 2003, all in the eastern part of Wakhan. The Kyrgyz are Sunni Hanafi Muslims.\n\nThe suppression of the 1916 rebellion against Russian rule in Central Asia caused many Kyrgyz later to migrate to China and Afghanistan. Most of Kyrgyz refugees settled in Wakhan region of Afghanistan.\n\nUntil 1978 the northeastern portion of Wakhan (the Great Pamir and the Little Pamir) was home to about 3–5 thousand ethnic Kyrgyz. In 1978 almost all the Kyrgyz inhabitants fled to Pakistan in the aftermath of the Saur Revolution. They requested 5,000 visas from the United States Consulate in Peshawar for resettlement in Alaska (a region that shares a similar climate and temperature with the Wakhan Corridor). Their request was denied. In the meantime, the heat and the unsanitary conditions of the refugee camp were killing off the Kyrgyz refugees at an alarming rate. Turkey which was under the military coup rule of General Kenan Evren, stepped in, and resettled the entire group in the Lake Van region of Turkey in 1982. The village of Ulupamir (or “Great Pamir” in Kyrgyz) in Erciş on Lake Van was given to these, where more than 5,000 of them still reside today. The documentary film \"37 Uses for a Dead Sheep – the story of the Pamir Kirghiz\" was based on the life of these Kyrgyz/Kirgiz in their new home.\n\nKyrgyz from Wakhan region of Afghanistan moved to Pakistan in the 1970s. Nearly 1,100 of these were accepted by Turkey to settle in Ulupamir (or “Great Pamir” in Kyrgyz), their resettlement village in Van Province.\n\nSome Kyrgyz returned to the Wakhan in October 1979, following the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.\n\nThe Kho (or Khowar) population of Wakhan was 1,230 in 2003, all in the eastern part of Wakhan. The Khos are Sunni and Ismaili Muslims.\n\nIn recent years the Wakhan has become a destination for adventurous trekkers, and several tour companies are offering trips to the area. BBC correspondent John Simpson has recommended the area as a place to take a wonderful, and relatively safe, holiday. Kate Humble, a BBC television presenter, reports that the area is beautiful and the people friendly.\n\nThe Wakhan plays a large role in Greg Mortenson's book, \"Stones into Schools\". This book tells the story of the building of a school in the Kyrgyz village of Bozai Gumbaz. However, the factual accuracy of this account is strongly disputed in Jon Krakauer's ebook Three Cups of Deceit.\n\n\n"}
