{"id": "35798687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35798687", "title": "33 Whitecross Street, Monmouth", "text": "33 Whitecross Street, Monmouth\n\n33 Whitecross Street is a grade II listed building in Monmouth, Monmouthshire, Wales. It is in the historic St James Square neighbourhood. The property was the site of archaeological excavation in 2009, which demonstrated evidence of Neolithic (prehistoric), Roman, and Medieval activity. The following year, archaeological excavation in the square discovered the first evidence of Mesolithic human settlement in Monmouth.\n\n\"There are some lovely spots in the town centre, none prettier than St James's Square, with its old war memorial in the shadow of a romantic-looking tree.\" This is the description of St James Square \"(pictured)\" in Monmouth, Wales that appeared in \"The Telegraph\" of 25 February 2006. The Monmouth War Memorial that was installed in the square in 1921 was the work of sculptor W. Clarke of Llandaff. 33 Whitecross Street is located at the eastern end of Whitecross Street, where it terminates at the roundabout encircling the triangular St James Square. The record held by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales gives the building an alternate address, 33 St James Square, on the west side of the square. The \"romantic-looking tree\" is a reference to the Catalpa or Indian Bean Tree which was planted on the square around 1900. The Catalpa, considered to be \"one of the best examples of the species in Britain,\" became the focus of controversy in 2005 when the Monmouthshire County Council condemned the tree.\n\n33 Whitecross Street \"(pictured)\" was grade II listed on 15 August 1974.\nThe listed building is a three storey house with a centrally positioned entrance. The porch has a six panelled door, with narrow cast iron columns flanking the entry. To the right of the entrance, there is a canted bay window from the turn of the 20th century. All of the windows on the three bay elevation are of plate glass, although those on the uppermost floor are smaller. The roof is of Welsh slate, and steeply pitched at the rear elevation which is two storeys. Two red brick chimneys are present. The painted, roughcast façade is remarkable for two band courses. The building was listed due to its \"special architectural interest\" and its location in a neighbourhood of other historic buildings. The dwelling is likely to have been constructed in the 18th century.\n\nIn January 2009, the Monmouthshire County Council reported that approval had been granted for two new extensions to the back of 33 Whitecross Street. Notice was given that an archaeological watching brief would be required. That watching brief was undertaken by the firm of Monmouth Archaeology in July 2009. The subsequent report of the archaeological excavation was issued on 13 August 2009. The team of archaeologists that conducted the excavation included Stephen Clarke, Jane Bray, Dave Hancocks, and Colin Harris. The conclusion indicated that there was evidence of prehistoric (Neolithic), Roman, Medieval, and Post-Medieval activity at 33 Whitecross Street. The following year, in November 2010, the \"BBC News\" reported that a team of local archaeologists had discovered Mesolithic artefacts at St James Square and Wyebridge Street. The discovery was remarkable because it represented the first evidence of Mesolithic human settlement in Monmouth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51193369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51193369", "title": "Abdullah Hakim Quick", "text": "Abdullah Hakim Quick\n\nAbdullah Hakim Quick (born June 25, 1949) is an imam, historian and travelling lecturer from North America.\n\nHe was born in the United States of America. He is of African American, Caribbean and Mohawk (Native American) descent. He was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts and grew up in Boston. He converted to Islam in Canada in 1970.\n\nHe received a Bachelor's Degree from the Islamic University of Madinah in 1979. He was one of the first two students from the west and the first American to have done so and receive an Ijazah. He received a Master's Degree and PhD from the University of Toronto. His thesis was an analysis of the life and writings of Sheikh ‘Uthman Dan Fodio, a great West African Scholar, warrior, and social activist.\n\nOver the past four decades Quick has travelled to 61 countries where he lectured at universities, mosques and at public events. He has also served as an imam, teacher, counsellor and media consultant in the USA, Canada, South Africa and the West Indies. He is currently senior lecturer with the Islamic Institute of Toronto (I.I.T.) and the outreach coordinator with the Canadian Council of Imams. He is also the history department head and a lecturer at AlMaghrib Institute.\n\nIn recognition of the contribution he has made to Canada, Quick has received the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal.\n\nQuick was listed in ISIS's hit list on an issue of Dabiq, with ISIS encouraging his death.\n"}
{"id": "23226582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23226582", "title": "Africa Spectrum", "text": "Africa Spectrum\n\nAfrica Spectrum is an interdisciplinary peer-reviewed academic journal concentrating on the analysis of current issues of development in Africa south of the Sahara. It is the only German academic journal exclusively devoted to Africa. \"Africa Spectrum\" is published three times a year by the GIGA Institute of African Affairs. The journal is part of the GIGA Journal Family of the GIGA German Institute of Global and Area Studies (Hamburg, Germany).\n\n\"Africa Spectrum\" focuses on social science dealing with Africa and is dedicated to promote a deeper understanding of African peoples and cultures. It aims not just at academics and students, but also at general readers and practitioners with a concern for contemporary Africa. Since 2003 the journal collaborates closely with the Association of Africanists in Germany (Vereinigung für Afrikawissenschaften in Deutschland, VAD). The journal is indexed by the \"Social Sciences Citation Index\", \"African Studies Abstracts Online\", Cambridge Scientific Abstracts, Scopus, and the \"International Bibliography of the Social Sciences\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41448337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41448337", "title": "André Vaillant", "text": "André Vaillant\n\nAndré Vaillant (November 3, 1890 – April 23, 1977), was a French linguist, philologist and grammarian who specialized in Slavic languages.\n\nHe was born in Soissons. After studying at École Normale Supérieure in Paris, he taught as professor at the Collège de France, becoming Chair of Slavic Languages and Literatures in 1952.\n\nIn Russia he studied manuscripts written in Old Church Slavonic. He worked at the Institute of Slavic Studies of Paris. He collaborated in the drafting of the Journal of Slavic Studies which served as the basis for the development of his comparative grammar of Slavic languages .\n\nHe wrote twenty books including the six-volume Comparative Grammar of Slavic languages (\"Grammaire comparée des langues slaves\"), the two-volume Handbook of Old Church Slavonic (\"Manuel de vieux-slave\") and a grammar of Serbo-Croatian together with Antoine Meillet.\n\nHe translated and published many liturgical texts written in Church Slavonic.\n\nHe died in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088", "title": "Aphasia", "text": "Aphasia\n\nAphasia is an inability to comprehend or formulate language because of damage to specific brain regions. This damage is typically caused by a cerebral vascular accident (stroke), or head trauma; however, these are not the only possible causes. To be diagnosed with aphasia, a person's speech or language must be significantly impaired in one (or several) of the four communication modalities following acquired brain injury or have significant decline over a short time period (progressive aphasia). The four communication modalities are auditory comprehension, verbal expression, reading and writing, and functional communication.\n\nThe difficulties of people with aphasia can range from occasional trouble finding words, to losing the ability to speak, read, or write; intelligence, however, is unaffected. Expressive language and receptive language can both be affected as well. Aphasia also affects visual language such as sign language. In contrast, the use of formulaic expressions in everyday communication is often preserved. One prevalent deficit in the aphasias is anomia, which is a deficit in word finding ability.\n\nThe term \"aphasia\" implies that one or more communication modalities in the brain have been damaged and are therefore functioning incorrectly. Aphasia does not refer to damage to the brain that results in motor or sensory deficits, which produces abnormal speech; that is, aphasia is not related to the mechanics of speech but rather the individual's language cognition (although a person can have both problems). An individual's \"language\" is the socially shared set of rules as well as the thought processes that go behind verbalized speech. It is not a result of a more peripheral motor or sensory difficulty, such as paralysis affecting the speech muscles or a general hearing impairment.\n\nAphasia affects about 2 million people in the US and 250,000 people in Great Britain. Though nearly 180,000 people in the US acquire the disorder a year, 84.5% of people have never heard of the condition.\nPeople with aphasia may experience any of the following behaviors due to an acquired brain injury, although some of these symptoms may be due to related or concomitant problems such as dysarthria or apraxia and not primarily due to aphasia. Aphasia symptoms can vary based on the location of damage in the brain. Signs and symptoms may or may not be present in individuals with aphasia and may vary in severity and level of disruption to communication. Often those with aphasia will try to hide their inability to name objects by using words like \"thing\". So when asked to name a pencil they may say it is a thing used to write.\nGiven the previously stated signs and symptoms the following behaviors are often seen in people with aphasia as a result of attempted compensation for incurred speech and language deficits:\n\n\nAphasia is most often caused by stroke, but any disease or damage to the parts of the brain that control language can cause aphasia. Some of these can include brain tumors, traumatic brain injury, and progressive neurological disorders. In rare cases, aphasia may also result from herpesviral encephalitis. The herpes simplex virus affects the frontal and temporal lobes, subcortical structures, and the hippocampal tissue, which can trigger aphasia. \nIn acute disorders, such as head injury or stroke, aphasia usually develops quickly. When caused by brain tumor, infection, or dementia, it develops more slowly.\n\nSubstantial damage to tissue anywhere within the region shown in blue on the figure below can potentially result in aphasia. Aphasia can also sometimes be caused by damage to subcortical structures deep within the left hemisphere, including the thalamus, the internal and external capsules, and the caudate nucleus of the basal ganglia. The area and extent of brain damage or atrophy will determine the type of aphasia and its symptoms. A very small number of people can experience aphasia after damage to the right hemisphere only. It has been suggested that these individuals may have had an unusual brain organization prior to their illness or injury, with perhaps greater overall reliance on the right hemisphere for language skills than in the general population.\n\nPrimary progressive aphasia (PPA), while its name can be misleading, is actually a form of dementia that has some symptoms closely related to several forms of aphasia. It is characterized by a gradual loss in language functioning while other cognitive domains are mostly preserved, such as memory and personality. PPA usually initiates with sudden word-finding difficulties in an individual and progresses to a reduced ability to formulate grammatically correct sentences (syntax) and impaired comprehension. The etiology of PPA is not due to a stroke, traumatic brain injury (TBI), or infectious disease; it is still uncertain what initiates the onset of PPA in those affected by it.\n\nEpilepsy can also include transient aphasia as a prodromal or episodic symptom. Aphasia is also listed as a rare side-effect of the fentanyl patch, an opioid used to control chronic pain.\n\nAphasia is best thought of as a collection of different disorders, rather than a single problem. Each individual with aphasia will present with their own particular combination of language strengths and weaknesses. Consequently, it is a major challenge just to document the various difficulties that can occur in different people, let alone decide how they might best be treated. Most classifications of the aphasias tend to divide the various symptoms into broad classes. A common approach is to distinguish between the fluent aphasias (where speech remains fluent, but content may be lacking, and the person may have difficulties understanding others), and the nonfluent aphasias (where speech is very halting and effortful, and may consist of just one or two words at a time).\n\nHowever, no such broad-based grouping has proven fully adequate. There is wide variation among people even within the same broad grouping, and aphasias can be highly selective. For instance, people with naming deficits (anomic aphasia) might show an inability only for naming buildings, or people, or colors.\n\nIt is important to note that there are typical difficulties with speech and language that come with normal aging as well. As we age language can become more difficult to process resulting in a slowing of verbal comprehension, reading abilities and more likely word finding difficulties. With each of these though, unlike some aphasias, functionality within daily life remains intact.\n\n\nLocalizationist approaches aim to classify the aphasias according to their major presenting characteristics and the regions of the brain that most probably gave rise to them. Inspired by the early work of nineteenth-century neurologists Paul Broca and Carl Wernicke, these approaches identify two major subtypes of aphasia and several more minor subtypes:\n\n\nRecent classification schemes adopting this approach, such as the \"Boston-Neoclassical Model\", also group these classical aphasia subtypes into two larger classes: the nonfluent aphasias (which encompasses Broca's aphasia and transcortical motor aphasia) and the fluent aphasias (which encompasses Wernicke's aphasia, conduction aphasia and transcortical sensory aphasia). These schemes also identify several further aphasia subtypes, including: anomic aphasia, which is characterized by a selective difficulty finding the names for things; and global aphasia, where both expression and comprehension of speech are severely compromised.\n\nMany localizationist approaches also recognize the existence of additional, more \"pure\" forms of language disorder that may affect only a single language skill. For example, in pure alexia, a person may be able to write but not read, and in pure word deafness, they may be able to produce speech and to read, but not understand speech when it is spoken to them.\n\nAlthough localizationist approaches provide a useful way of classifying the different patterns of language difficulty into broad groups, one problem is that a sizeable number of individuals do not fit neatly into one category or another. Another problem is that the categories, particularly the major ones such as Broca's and Wernicke's aphasia, still remain quite broad. Consequently, even amongst individuals who meet the criteria for classification into a subtype, there can be enormous variability in the types of difficulties they experience.\n\nInstead of categorizing every individual into a specific subtype, cognitive neuropsychological approaches aim to identify the key language skills or \"modules\" that are not functioning properly in each individual. A person could potentially have difficulty with just one module, or with a number of modules. This type of approach requires a framework or theory as to what skills/modules are needed to perform different kinds of language tasks. For example, the model of Max Coltheart identifies a module that recognizes phonemes as they are spoken, which is essential for any task involving recognition of words. Similarly, there is a module that stores phonemes that the person is planning to produce in speech, and this module is critical for any task involving the production of long words or long strings of speech. Once a theoretical framework has been established, the functioning of each module can then be assessed using a specific test or set of tests. In the clinical setting, use of this model usually involves conducting a battery of assessments, each of which tests one or a number of these modules. Once a diagnosis is reached as to the skills/modules where the most significant impairment lies, therapy can proceed to treat these skills.\n\nPrimary progressive aphasia (PPA) is a neurodegenerative focal dementia that can be associated with progressive illnesses or dementia, such as \nfrontotemporal dementia / Pick Complex Motor neuron disease, Progressive supranuclear palsy, and Alzheimer's disease, which is the gradual process of progressively losing the ability to think. Gradual loss of language function occurs in the context of relatively well-preserved memory, visual processing, and personality until the advanced stages. Symptoms usually begin with word-finding problems (naming) and progress to impaired grammar (syntax) and comprehension (sentence processing and semantics).<American Speech-Language-Hearing Association> The loss of language before the loss of memory differentiates PPA from typical dementias. People suffering from PPA may have difficulties comprehending what others are saying. They can also have difficulty trying to find the right words to make a sentence. There are three classifications of Primary Progressive Aphasia : Progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), Semantic Dementia (SD), and Logopenic progressive aphasia (LPA)\n\nProgressive Jargon Aphasia is a fluent or receptive aphasia in which the person's speech is incomprehensible, but appears to make sense to them. Speech is fluent and effortless with intact syntax and grammar, but the person has problems with the selection of nouns. Either they will replace the desired word with another that sounds or looks like the original one or has some other connection or they will replace it with sounds. As such, people with jargon aphasia often use neologisms, and may perseverate if they try to replace the words they cannot find with sounds. Substitutions commonly involve picking another (actual) word starting with the same sound (e.g., clocktower - colander), picking another semantically related to the first (e.g., letter - scroll), or picking one phonetically similar to the intended one (e.g., lane - late).\n\nThere have been many instances showing that there is a form of aphasia among deaf individuals. Sign languages are, after all, forms of language that have been shown to use the same areas of the brain as verbal forms of language. Mirror neurons become activated when an animal is acting in a particular way or watching another individual act in the same manner. These mirror neurons are important in giving an individual the ability to mimic movements of hands. Broca's area of speech production has been shown to contain several of these mirror neurons resulting in significant similarities of brain activity between sign language and vocal speech communication. Facial communication is a significant portion of how animals interact with each other. Humans use facial movements to create, what other humans perceive, to be faces of emotions. While combining these facial movements with speech, a more full form of language is created which enables the species to interact with a much more complex and detailed form of communication. Sign language also uses these facial movements and emotions along with the primary hand movement way of communicating. These facial movement forms of communication come from the same areas of the brain. When dealing with damages to certain areas of the brain, vocal forms of communication are in jeopardy of severe forms of aphasia. Since these same areas of the brain are being used for sign language, these same, at least very similar, forms of aphasia can show in the Deaf community. Individuals can show a form of Wernicke's aphasia with sign language and they show deficits in their abilities in being able to produce any form of expressions. Broca's aphasia shows up in some people, as well. These individuals find tremendous difficulty in being able to actually sign the linguistic concepts they are trying to express.\n\nThe severity of the type of aphasia varies depending on the size of the stroke. However, there is much variance between how often one type of severity occurs in certain types of aphasia.  For instance, any type of aphasia can range from mild to profound. Regardless of the severity of aphasia, people can make improvements due to spontaneous recovery and treatment in the acute stages of recovery. Klebic et al. (2011) found that people with severe aphasia improved after receiving therapy for a year, consequently reducing the severity of their aphasia. Additionally, while most studies propose that the greatest outcomes occur in people with severe aphasia when treatment is provided in the acute stages of recovery, Robey (1998) also found that those with severe aphasia are capable of making strong language gains in the chronic stage of recovery as well. This finding implies that persons with aphasia have the potential to have functional outcomes regardless of how severe their aphasia may be. While there is no distinct pattern of the outcomes of aphasia based on severity alone, global aphasia typically makes functional language gains, but may be gradual since global aphasia affects many language areas.\n\nFollowing are some precautions that should be taken to avoid aphasia, by decreasing the risk of stroke, the main cause of aphasia:\n\nWhen addressing Wernicke's aphasia, according to Bakheit et al. (2007), the lack of awareness of the language impairments, a common characteristic of Wernicke's aphasia, may affect the rate and extent of therapy outcomes. Klebic et al. (2011) suggests that people benefit from continuing therapy upon discharge from the hospital to ensure generalization. Robey (1998) determined that at least 2 hours of treatment per week is recommended for making significant language gains. Spontaneous recovery may cause some language gains, but without speech-language therapy, the outcomes can be half as strong as those with therapy.\n\nWhen addressing Broca's aphasia, better outcomes occur when the person participates in therapy, and treatment is more effective than no treatment for people in the acute period. Two or more hours of therapy per week in acute and post-acute stages produced the greatest results. High-intensity therapy was most effective, and low-intensity therapy was almost equivalent to no therapy.\n\nPeople with global aphasia are sometimes referred to as having irreversible aphasic syndrome, often making limited gains in auditory comprehension, and recovering no functional language modality with therapy. With this said, people with global aphasia may retain gestural communication skills that may enable success when communicating with conversational partners within familiar conditions. Process-oriented treatment options are limited, and people may not become competent language users as readers, listeners, writers, or speakers no matter how extensive therapy is. However, people's daily routines and quality of life can be enhanced with reasonable and modest goals. After the first month, there is limited to no healing to language abilities of most people. There is a grim prognosis leaving 83% who were globally aphasic after the first month they will remain globally aphasic at the first year. Some people are so severely impaired that their existing process-oriented treatment approaches offer signs of progress, and therefore cannot justify the cost of therapy.\n\nPerhaps due to the relative rareness of conduction aphasia, few studies have specifically studied the effectiveness of therapy for people with this type of aphasia. From the studies performed, results showed that therapy can help to improve specific language outcomes. One intervention that has had positive results is auditory repetition training. Kohn et al. (1990) reported that drilled auditory repetition training related to improvements in spontaneous speech, Francis et al. (2003) reported improvements in sentence comprehension, and Kalinyak-Fliszar et al. (2011) reported improvements in auditory-visual short-term memory.\n\nMost acute cases of aphasia recover some or most skills by working with a speech-language pathologist. Recovery and improvement can continue for years after the stroke. After the onset of Aphasia, there is approximately a six-month period of spontaneous recovery; during this time, the brain is attempting to recover and repair the damaged neurons. Improvement varies widely, depending on the aphasia's cause, type, and severity. Recovery also depends on the person's age, health, motivation, handedness, and educational level.\n\nThere is no one treatment proven to be effective for all types of aphasias. The reason that there is no universal treatment for aphasia is because of the nature of the disorder and the various ways it is presented, as explained in the above sections. Aphasia is rarely exhibited identically, implying that treatment needs to be catered specifically to the individual. Studies have shown that, although there is no consistency on treatment methodology in literature, there is a strong indication that treatment, in general, has positive outcomes. Therapy for aphasia ranges from increasing functional communication to improving speech accuracy, depending on the person's severity, needs and support of family and friends. Group therapy allows individuals to work on their pragmatic and communication skills with other individuals with aphasia, which are skills that may not often be addressed in individual one-on-one therapy sessions. It can also help increase confidence and social skills in a comfortable setting.\n\nEvidence does not support the use of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) for improving aphasia after stroke.\n\nSpecific treatment techniques include the following:\n\nSemantic feature analysis (SFA) -a type of aphasia treatment that targets word-finding deficits. It is based on the theory that neural connections can be strengthened by using related words and phrases that are similar to the target word, to eventually activate the target word in the brain. SFA can be implemented in multiple forms such as verbally, written, using picture cards, etc. The SLP provides prompting questions to the individual with aphasia in order for the person to name the picture provided. Studies show that SFA is an effective intervention for improving confrontational naming.\n\nMelodic intonation therapy is used to treat non-fluent aphasia and has proved to be effective in some cases. However, there is still no evidence from randomized controlled trials confirming the efficacy of MIT in chronic aphasia. MIT is used to help people with aphasia vocalize themselves through speech song, which is then transferred as a spoken word. Good candidates for this therapy include people who have had left hemisphere strokes, non-fluent aphasias such as Broca's, good auditory comprehension, poor repetition and articulation, and good emotional stability and memory. An alternative explanation is that the efficacy of MIT depends on neural circuits involved in the processing of rhythmicity and formulaic expressions (examples taken from the MIT manual: “I am fine,” “how are you?” or “thank you”); while rhythmic features associated with melodic intonation may engage primarily left-hemisphere subcortical areas of the brain, the use of formulaic expressions is known to be supported by right-hemisphere cortical and bilateral subcortical neural networks.\n\nAccording to the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD), involving family with the treatment of an Aphasic loved one is ideal for all involved, because while it will no doubt assist in their recovery, it will also make it easier for members of the family to learn how best to communicate with them.\n\nWhen a person's speech is insufficient, different kinds of augmentative and alternative communication could be considered such as alphabet boards, pictorial communication books, specialized software for computers or apps for tablets or smartphones. \n\nThe intensity of aphasia therapy is determined by the length of each session, total hours of therapy per week, and total weeks of therapy provided. There is no consensus about what “intense” aphasia therapy entails, or how intense therapy should be to yield the best outcomes. A 2016 Cochrane review of speech and language therapy for people with aphasia found that treatments that are higher intensity, higher dose or over a long duration of time led to significantly better functional communication but people were more likely to drop out of high intensity treatment (up to 15 hours per week).\n\nIntensity of therapy is also dependent on the recency of stroke. People with aphasia react differently to intense treatment in the acute phase (0–3 months post stroke), sub-acute phase (3–6 months post stroke), or chronic phase (6+ months post stroke). Intensive therapy has been found to be effective for people with nonfluent and fluent chronic aphasia, but less effective for people with acute aphasia.> People with sub-acute aphasia also respond well to intensive therapy of 100 hours over 62 weeks. This suggests people in the sub-acute phase can improve greatly in language and functional communication measures with intensive therapy compared to regular therapy.\n\nIntensity of treatment should be individualized based on the recency of stroke, therapy goals, and other specific characteristics such as age, size of lesion, overall health status, and motivation. Each individual reacts differently to treatment intensity and is able to tolerate treatment at different times post-stroke. Intensity of treatment after a stroke should be dependent on the person's motivation, stamina, and tolerance for therapy.\n\nIf the symptoms of aphasia last longer than two or three months after a stroke, a complete recovery is unlikely. However, it is important to note that some people continue to improve over a period of years and even decades. Improvement is a slow process that usually involves both helping the individual and family understand the nature of aphasia and learning compensatory strategies for communicating. \n\nAfter a traumatic brain injury (TBI) or cerebrovascular accident (CVA), the brain undergoes several healing and re-organization processes, which may result in improved language function. This is referred to as spontaneous recovery. Spontaneous recovery is the natural recovery the brain makes without treatment, and the brain begins to reorganize and change in order to recover. There are several factors that contribute to a person's chance of recovery caused by stroke, including stroke size and location. Age, sex, and education have not been found to be very predictive.\n\nSpecific to aphasia, spontaneous recovery varies among affected people and may not look the same in everyone, making it difficult to predict recovery.\n\nThough some cases of Wernicke's aphasia have shown greater improvements than more mild forms of aphasia, people with Wernicke's aphasia may not reach as high a level of speech abilities as those with mild forms of aphasia.\n\nThe first recorded case of aphasia is from an Egyptian papyrus, the Edwin Smith Papyrus, which details speech problems in a person with a traumatic brain injury to the temporal lobe.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, aphasia was a major focus for scientists and philosophers who were working in the beginning stages of the field of psychology.\nIn medical research, speechlessness was described as an incorrect prognosis, and there was no assumption that underlying language complications existed. Broca and his colleagues were some of the first to write about aphasia, but Wernicke was the first credited to have written extensively about aphasia being a disorder that contained comprehension difficulties. Despite claims of who reported on aphasia first, it was F.J. Gall that gave the first full description of aphasia after studying wounds to the brain, as well as his observation of speech difficulties resulting from vascular lesions. A recent book on the entire history of aphasia is available (Reference: Tesak, J. & Code, C. (2008) Milestones in the History of Aphasia: Theories and Protagonists.Hove, East Sussex: Psychology Press.)\n\n\"Aphasia\" is from Greek \"a-\" (\"without\") + \"phásis\" (\"φάσις\", \"speech\").\n\nThe word \"aphasia\" comes from the word ἀφασία \"aphasia\", in Ancient Greek, which means \"speechlessness\", derived from ἄφατος \"aphatos\", \"speechless\" from ἀ- \"a-\", \"not, un\" and φημί \"phemi\", \"I speak\".\n\nResearch is currently being done using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to witness the difference in how language is processed in normal brains vs aphasic brains. This will help researchers to understand exactly what the brain must go through in order to recover from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and how different areas of the brain respond after such an injury.\n\nAnother intriguing approach being tested is that of drug therapy. Research is in progress that will hopefully uncover whether or not certain drugs might be used in addition to speech-language therapy in order to facilitate recovery of proper language function. It's possible that the best treatment for Aphasia might involve combining drug treatment with therapy, instead of relying on one over the other.\n\nOne other method being researched as a potential therapeutic combination with speech-language therapy is brain stimulation. One particular method, Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS), alters brain activity in whatever area it happens to stimulate, which has recently led scientists to wonder if this shift in brain function caused by TMS might help people re-learn languages.\n\nThe research being put into Aphasia has only just begun. Researchers appear to have multiple ideas on how Aphasia could be more effectively treated in the future. \n"}
{"id": "24891378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24891378", "title": "Archaeological open-air museum", "text": "Archaeological open-air museum\n\nAn archaeological open-air museum is a non-profit permanent institution with outdoor true-to-scale architectural reconstructions primarily based on archaeological sources. It holds collections of intangible heritage resources and provides an interpretation of how people lived and acted in the past; this is accomplished according to sound scientific methods for the purposes of education, study and enjoyment of its visitors.\n\nThe above definition was made by EXARC, using ICOM's definition of museums. By that time Roeland Paardekooper was their director. Further explanation of its components:\n\nExamples of archaeological open-air museums are Flag Fen, Biskupin, Lake Dwelling Museum Unteruhldingen, Saalburg, Colonial Williamsburg, Plimoth Plantation, Craggaunowen, West Stow Anglo-Saxon village, Butser Ancient Farm, Havránok, the Scottish Crannog Centre and the Eindhoven Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "17464348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17464348", "title": "Bison Licking Insect Bite", "text": "Bison Licking Insect Bite\n\nBison Licking Insect Bite is a prehistoric carving from the Upper Paleolithic, found at Abri de la Madeleine near Tursac in Dordogne, France, the type-site of the Magdalenian culture, which produced many fine small carvings in antler or bone.\n\nCreated sometime between 20,000 and 12,000 BP (15,000 BP according to the museum), it was formerly in the Musee des Antiquites Nationales, St. Germain-en-Laye, but has been transferred to the expanded National Museum of Prehistory in Les Eyzies-de-Tayac-Sireuil that opened in 2004, not far from its findspot. It is a carved and engraved fragment of a spear-thrower made of reindeer antler. It depicts the figure of a bison, of the now extinct species steppe wisent (\"bison priscus\") with its head turned around and showing its tongue extended. It is thought the spear-thrower was broken into roughly its present shape before the carving was made from the fragment, hence the need to show the turned-back head of the animal in order to fit the existing structure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27363382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27363382", "title": "Charter of Alliance", "text": "Charter of Alliance\n\nThe Charter of Alliance (), also known as Deed of Agreement was a treaty between the grand vizier of the Ottoman Empire and a number of powerful local rulers signed in 1808, in an attempt to regulate their power and relations with the central Ottoman government.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, agricultural land was considered to be the sultan's private estate. These estates () were granted to cavalrymen (, \"timariot sipahis\") in return for their military services during war. The system was similar to the fief system of Medieval Europe, except that the land was non-inheritable, precluding the rise of feudalism in the Ottoman Empire. However during the Empire's decline in the 18th century, two factors provoked a kind of feudalism:\n\nThe cavalrymen were replaced by the tax collectors and local military rulers who were called derebeys (\"river lords\") or ayan. These powerful local leaders formed de facto local dynasties supported by considerable military power. By the end of the 18th century, the authority of the sultan had become almost non-existent outside the capital Istanbul, and the empire had become highly decentralized.\n\nAlemdar Mustafa Pasha an ayan in Rusçuk (Ruse, Bulgaria) was supporting the reformist Sultan Selim III (reigned 1789–1807). After Selim III was dethroned, Alemdar marched to Istanbul to reenthrone Selim III. However Selim had been killed by the new Sultan Mustafa IV. Alemdar dethroned Mustafa IV and enthroned his brother Mahmut II (reigned 1808–1839). To show gratitude, Mahmut II appointed Alemdar as his grand vizier.\n\nOriginally one of the ayans himself, Alemdar tried to end the chaos in the empire by a treaty. He invited other ayans to Istanbul. Although only four of them showed up, Alemdar and they signed a document called the \"Charter of Alliance\" () on 29 September 1808. The terms were\n\nAccording to some historians, the Charter of Alliance was a form of Turkish Magna Carta. Others, however; point out that the Charter, signed in the first half of the 19th century, can't be compared to the Magna Carta of the 13th century.\n\nIn any case, the Charter was short-lived. According to the treaty, Alemdar's successors would also sign the treaty. But after Alemdar's death no Grand Vizier ratified the treaty, probably due to the sultan's only half-hearted support to it. The Sultan saw this treaty as a challenge to his prestige. In the following years however the energetic Sultan fought against the ayans and was able subdue most of them.\n\n"}
{"id": "3012236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3012236", "title": "Choreography on Broadway", "text": "Choreography on Broadway\n\nChroniclers of the musical theater have been around for years, collecting pictorial surveys, librettos and scores, and recording the careers of various theatrical celebrities. Nothing in the American musical theater has been more inaccessible, however, than the record of its dance traditions, and there are many to recount. \n\nFor the most part, dance movement itself was either the last to be mentioned by critics or ignored altogether, resulting in dance numbers in musicals going unrecorded. The only way to preserve dance movements from generation to generation was by demonstration, imitation, practice, and personal supervision. \n\nNot until 1960, with the musical \"Bye Bye Birdie\", did the permanent notation of a show's complete choreography exist. \n\nIn the late 1920s, the importance of dance in a musical changed. Seymour Felix realized dance needed to aid in plot and character development as well as enhance the spirit of the show. Having convinced Florenz Ziegfeld, the producer of \"Whoopee!\", that it is the story that counts, Felix set about to devise dances that unfolded gradually and consisted of plot development and climax as if they were dramatic units themselves instead of \"a mere pounding of the feet and kicking to music.\"\n\nThe major step of integrating dance into a unified effect onstage were vital and ingenuous for commercial dancing. One of the earliest successful examples of this concept was in \"Pal Joey\". The dancing in the show enhanced the environment and projected character without any reduction in the flashy entertainment values then prized in musical shows.\n\nWhen it was realized the importance of dancing as a tool for character development and plot advancement, famous director-choreographers began to emerge: Jerome Robbins, Bob Fosse, and Gower Champion. \n\nRobbins believed whoever controlled the movement controlled the show. This was definitely evident in \"West Side Story\" when Robbins allowed the choreography and the intense, adolescent passion of a teenage boy in love to move him. When Robbins abandoned commercial dance to pursue a career in choreography with the New York City Ballet, Bob Fosse took up the cause and argued the case for director-choreographers with shows like \"Sweet Charity\", \"Pippin\", \"Chicago\", and \"Dancin\"'.\n\nFosse had a talent for manipulating, tampering with, or otherwise reconstructing the contribution from writers in order to make the material serviceable to his staging and choreography. Fosse's style of self-contained acts of vaudeville and burlesque led him to a career of show-stopping numbers for audience approval. \n\nChampion wasn’t as personal as Fosse, or as material-oriented as Robbins, but nonetheless, his craft and work sustained the old-fashioned musical comedy scene for two decades, [1960 with \"Bye Bye Birdie\" to 1980 with \"42nd Street\". Champion used dancing to embellish, extend and enlarge an existing emotion. He was no innovator, like Robbins. He never created his own distinctive style, like Fosse. Yet, Champion's body of work is as much a part of the history of the contemporary musical as that of his talented peers.\n\n"}
{"id": "48050284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48050284", "title": "Conservation and restoration of neon objects", "text": "Conservation and restoration of neon objects\n\nThe conservation and restoration of neon objects is the process of caring for and maintaining neon objects (artworks), and includes documentation, examination, research, and treatment to insure their long-term viability, when desired.\n\nGeorges Claude, a French engineer, developed neon technology in 1910. Claude introduced neon technology in Paris, and it later became popular in America during the 1920s for use in advertising signage. Its popularity rose until the 1940s, after which neon signage was used less due to the invention of inexpensive plastics.\n\nNeon lights are low-pressure gas discharge bulbs. They produce light by charging noble gases in glass cathode tubes with electricity.\n\nNeon bulbs are composed of noble gases sealed in glass tubing. The tubing can be bent by a professional glass blower or neon vendor into a variety of shapes to produce different imagery or text. The tube is vacuum-pumped to remove all air, after which a small amount of selected gases are pumped into the tube prior to permanently sealing.\n\nEach end of the tube is fitted with metal terminals called electrodes, also as known as cathodes. When the electrodes are connected an energy source, the tube will glow as the gas becomes electrically excited. Different gases produce different colors; in addition, the glass tubing can also be coated or tinted, and different tubing and gas combinations produce a range of 150 colors.\n\nNoble gases are sealed inside airtight cathode tubes, and produce light when they are electrically excited. Different gases and gas combinations will produce different colors, and are used in varying degrees in neon lights:\nPrior to the 1960s, neon technology was associated with advertising and was not considered fine art. In the 1960s, visual artists began experimenting with neon in mixed media and installation artworks. Prominent neon artworks during this time include Jasper Johns’ \"Field Painting\" (c. 1963-1964), James Rosenquist’s \"Tumbleweed\" (1963-1966), and Robert Rauschenberg’s \"Green Shirt\" (1965-1967).\n\nChryssa, a Greek artist, is largely credited with establishing neon as a visual art form. She was very active in the 1960s and 70s and created large-scale works with a focus on and constant incorporation of neon. Other artists began exploring the neon technology in 1970s, and have continued to do so in contemporary art making.\n\nSome artists both design and create neon artworks by learning the skill set; however, the majority of artists rely on professional neon vendors to fabricate artworks following the artists’ design.\n\nNeon artworks can be found in many permanent public collections, including the Museum of Modern Art, New York, the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IL, and the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, D.C. In 1981, Lili Lakich and Richard Jenkins founded the Museum of Neon Art (MONA) in Los Angeles, whose collection preserves and exhibits historical neon advertisements and neon fine art. In 2009, the museum closed its Los Angeles location, and reopened in November, 2015, in Glendale, California.\n\nUnpacking a neon artwork slowly and carefully will help avoid damage. As the glass tubes are fragile, they may become damaged during shipping. Preparing a condition report of the work after receipt will document if any of the tubes or components were cracked or broken during transit, and can be addressed prior to display. Unpacking artworks in teams of at least two people will better allow safer handling of the work, and may aid in documentation and recording.\n\nOver time, neon artworks may collect dust. To ensure safety of personnel and the artwork, neon artworks should be turned off and unplugged prior to any cleaning. Trained professionals may undertake cleaning the work with approved materials such as a feather duster or dry paintbrush. The use of water or other cleaning liquids may pose a safety hazard due to potential contact with the electrical components. A professional conservator, specialist, or electrician should be consulted whenever:\n\n\nOutlets: Neon artworks require electricity in order to function. A building electrical engineer should always be consulted prior to installing and displaying a neon artwork to confirm safe use of an electrical outlet. An outlet should never be overloaded. If an outlet feels warm, an electrician should be consulted before further use.\n\nCords: Electrical cords connecting a neon artwork to a power source should be checked on a regular basis for any signs of fraying or wear and tear. The placement of cords is also important. If cords are run in high traffic areas, they may pose a tripping hazard to visitors, which could potentially result in personal injury and damage to the cord and/or artwork. The placement of cords in and against walls and out of traffic areas provide better safety and use. Use of extension cords are not recommended, as they increase the risk of potential electrical and tripping hazards. Review of the artwork and its installation, including outlet and cord placement,by curatorial, installation, and electrical staff will help ensure the safety of the artwork.\n\nTransformers: A transformer is used to convert electricity into use by the neon sign. Transformers last approximate ten to fifteen years, and older transformers may fail or pose safety risks, and require replacement. Failure to replace an older transformer may result in flickering in the neon artwork, or complete failure to light. It is important to consult an electrical engineer or professional to confirm the voltage type and requirements for the replacement transformer. When cataloging a neon artwork, the transformer type and age may be noted in the artwork record, along with a reminder about potential future transformer replacements.\n\nLike other media, neon artworks should be monitored and condition reports performed on a regular basis. If an artwork appears to flicker or fails to illuminate, the work can first be assessed on display. Potential problems may include damage to the tubes, disruptions to the electrical components, including frayed wires or unplugged cords, or potential disruptions of the electrical supply (such as a power outage in the building or circuit). Prior to removing from display, the work should be turned off and disconnected from the electrical source. Flickering may indicate a problem with gas pressures inside the tubes (possibly a result of age and/or damaged tubes) or a failing transformer.\n\nCracked or damaged neon tubes present potential health risks from contact with broken glass and exposure to mercury, a heavy metal contaminant, in gas form. Though any mercury vapor, if present, will be in small amounts, steps should still be taken to avoid contamination. If a neon tube appears damaged, it should not be handled. If handling is required for removal, barrier gloves, such as nitrile, and protective covering, such an apron or smock, will help avoid potential contamination to personnel. Broken tubes should be stored separately from other collection items to avoid contamination, and clearly labeled with hazard labels. The broken tubes will require assessment from a professional conservator/neon specialist.\n\nNeon technology is non-archival. The gases have limited lifespans, and older electrical components will degrade over time. This may result in a limited display capacity for a neon work, e.g. diminished or intermittent light, or a complete loss of function, as well as pose safety risks.\n\nUnlike other traditional art mediums, such as painting, conservation for neon artworks and other new materials does not necessarily focus on preserving and repairing the original materials. As neon is a newer technology and media, there is less data available about how the media changes over time and how to inhibit further degradation. In order to successfully conserve a contemporary artwork such as neon, the conservator must \n\nIf the media or technology cannot be safely recovered or addressed, new and replacement technology may be used to return the artwork closest to the state originally envisioned by the artist. This refabrication may be undertaken by a conservator, or potentially by the artist himself/herself. This may include replacing the neon tubes, electrical components such as cords and transformers, the work's support structure, or other media included in the work.\n\nAn example of refabrication is the conservation of Rockne Krebs' \"Miami Line\". In 1984, the Miami-Dade County's Art in Public Places program commissioned Krebs to create a public artwork for the Metrorail bridge. The resulting work, \"Miami Line\", consisted of a rainbow of neon lights spanning the 1,540 bridge. Over time, the vibrations caused by trains on the bridge caused the neon lights to burn out, and by 2013, the entire work was no longer illuminated. The Art in Public Places program worked with the artist's estate to develop a plan to recreate the work using LED lights, which would be resistant to train vibrations, but still maintain the visual effect created by the artist. Electrical assessments and conservation of the work began in 2014, and the work will be relit upon completion.\n\nIn the case of a potentially burnt out neon tube, a conservator may identify the burned out tube portion of a neon artwork through use of a neon light tester, also known as a test light or voltage tester. This electronic test device is used to determine whether an electric current is running through the equipment being tested.\n\nReplication differs from Re-fabrication in that the original artwork is not altered, and instead a copy is produced for temporary exhibition purposes. While the replica may not contain the same materials used in the original artwork, the finished product is approximately identical of the original.\n\nReplication can only be undertaken with the approval of the artist or the artist’s estate. Bruce Nauman is an artist who requires four criteria be met to replicate his original neon artworks. These criteria are:\n\n\nWebsite: http://www.lightwriters.com/nw/KinConsr.htm Phone: (847) 291-4160 Email: jaf@lwt.net Artists:\n\nEmail: inquire@litebriteon.com \n\nPrecision Neon Website: http://cathodeworks.com/ Phone: (718)-369-0514\nDavid Ablon Website: http://www.ablontech.com/ Email: davidablon@me.com\n"}
{"id": "5167486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5167486", "title": "Content clause", "text": "Content clause\n\nIn grammar, a content clause is a subordinate clause that provides content implied or commented upon by its main clause. The term was coined by Otto Jespersen. They are also known as \"noun clauses\". There are two main kinds of content clauses: declarative content clauses (or \"that\"-clauses), which correspond to declarative sentences, and interrogative content clauses, which correspond to interrogative sentences.\n\nDeclarative content clauses can have a number of different grammatical roles. They often serve as direct objects of verbs of reporting, cognition, perception, and so on. In this use, the conjunction \"that\" may head the clause, but is often omitted, that is, unvoiced:\n\n\nSimilarly with certain verb-like adjectives:\n\n\nThey also often serve as complements of nouns—both nouns corresponding to the above verbs, and nouns like \"fact\", \"idea\", and so on. Here, \"that\" is almost always included:\n\n\nFinally, they can serve as subjects, or as direct objects of verbs that link them to adjectives or other predicatives. In this use, they are commonly postponed to the end of their main clause, with an expletive \"it\" standing in their original place:\n\n\nHere as before, a conjunction is almost always included, although it does not need to be \"that\":\n\n\nInterrogative content clauses, often called indirect questions, can be used in many of the same ways as declarative ones; for example, they are often direct objects of verbs of cognition, reporting, and perception, but here they emphasize knowledge or lack of knowledge of one element of a fact:\n\n\nSuch clauses correspond to direct questions, which are questions actually asked. The direct questions corresponding to the examples above are \"What did you do? How did he manage it? Did I look that bad? Where are the files?\" Notice how, in English (and in some other languages), different syntax is used in direct and indirect questions: direct questions normally use subject-verb inversion, while indirect questions do not. Reported questions (as in the last of the examples) are also subject to the tense and other changes that apply generally in indirect speech. For more information see interrogative mood and English grammar. \n\nIndirect questions can serve as adjective and noun complements. Here, in English, they are generally introduced by a preposition, especially \"of\":\n\nLike declarative content clauses, they are often postponed to the end of their main clause, with an expletive \"it\" standing in their original place, when they serve as the subject of a verb, or as the direct object of a verb that links them to a predicative:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "968810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=968810", "title": "Cosmeston Medieval Village", "text": "Cosmeston Medieval Village\n\nCosmeston Medieval Village is a \"living history\" medieval village near Lavernock in the Vale of Glamorgan not far from Penarth and Cardiff in south Wales. Based upon remains discovered during a 1980s archaeological dig in the grounds of Cosmeston Lakes Country Park, it is a re-creation of 14th century peasant life in Wales in the Late Middle Ages.\n\nThe reconstructed village regularly plays host to groups of reenactors, who camp in authentic tents around the outskirts of the village, and perform displays of historical combat for the public.\n\nThe original Cosmeston village grew around a fortified manor house constructed sometime around the 12th century by the De Costentin family, who were among the first Norman invaders of Wales in the early 12th century following William the Conqueror's invasion of neighbouring England in 1066. It is unlikely that the manor house at the site was a substantial building and there is documentary evidence that by 1437 the manor house had already fallen into total ruin. Its precise site has just been located. The village would have consisted of a number of small stone round houses, or crofts, with thatched roofs, as depicted in the current reconstruction, and the village population would have been between 50 and 100 people at most, including children.\n\nThe de Costentin family originated on the Cotentin peninsula in northern France. They were the first lords of the manor and they called the village Costentinstune, which over time became known as Cosmeston. They built the original manor house and, perhaps, a few dwellings or small farms, but for the next two centuries it appears that little further development occurred.\n\nAround 1316 the manor passed into the hands of the de Caversham family, also of Norman descent.\n\nThe buildings that have been excavated so far seem to be from the 14th century. It would appear that the de Caversham family brought a more designed approach to the development of the community and a better regulated and more compact settlement began to develop during their stewardship of the village.\n\nThere is little sign that the village continued to develop much past the later middle ages. Unusually, no Norman church was ever established in the immediate area, so by 1824 all that remained of Cosmeston village were four isolated crofts and the Little Cosmeston Farmhouse as shown on the Marquis of Bute's detailed maps of the time. It is quite possible that the majority of the villagers were wiped out during the Black Death plague of the 1340s or the later outbreaks, leaving Cosmeston a Deserted medieval village.\n\nIn addition to the plague, the villagers would have had to combat other difficulties. The land is low-lying and at the mercy of the many water sources that now feed the Cosmeston Lake. There is substantial evidence of drainage dykes, but even they would have struggled to keep the arable land free from waterlogging and constant flooding. Additionally the period was one of permanent political upheaval with intermittent resistance and armed conflict between several local Welsh leaders. In January 1316, for instance, Llywelyn Bren attacked Caerphilly Castle, and for the next two months there was conflict and devastation throughout the Glamorgan region.\n\nBy the 20th century all evidence of the village had vanished and local residents had no idea of its previous existence. When the Snocem Concrete works and the Cosmeston limestone quarry closed in 1970, the land was developed under Countryside Commission funding as a country park. During the landscaping of the new country park the first evidence of the medieval village was unearthed and an archeological exploration was undertaken.\n\nThe resulting heritage reconstruction has been described as the best representation of a medieval village currently available in Britain. In addition to being open to the general public, the village accepts school tours and archeological groups, together with staging of special events and re-enactments throughout the year.\n\nCosmeston has been used as a film location for many productions, including a 2014 episode of the hit BBC TV drama series \"Doctor Who\", \"Merlin\" and \"Galavant\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18985287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18985287", "title": "Culture of the United States", "text": "Culture of the United States\n\nThe culture of the United States of America is primarily of Western culture (European) origin and form, but is influenced by a multicultural ethos that includes African, Native American, Asian, Polynesian, and Latin American people and their cultures. It also has its own social and cultural characteristics, such as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore. The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale migration from many countries throughout its history. Many American cultural elements, especially from popular culture, have spread across the globe through modern mass media.\n\nThe European roots of the United States are in the English settlers of colonial America during British rule. The varieties of English people as opposed to the other peoples in the British Isles were the overwhelming majority ethnic group in the 17th century (population of the colonies in 1700 250,000) and were 47.9% of percent of the total population of 3. 9 million. They constituted 60% of the whites at the first census in 1790 (%, 3.5 Welsh, 8.5 Scotch Irish, 4.3 Scots, 4.7 Southern Irish, 7.2 German, 2.7 Dutch, 1.7 French and .2 Swedish), The American Revolution, Colin Bonwick, 1991, p. 254. The English ethnic group contributed the major cultural and social mindset and attitudes that evolved into the American character. Of the total population in each colony they numbered from 30% in Pennsylvania to 85% in Massachusetts, Becoming America, Jon Butler, 2000, pp. 9–11. Large non-English immigrant populations from the 1720s to 1775, such as the Germans (100,000 or more), Scotch Irish (250,000), added enriched and modified the English cultural substrate, The Encyclopedia of Colonial and Revolutionary America, Ed. John Mack Faragher, 1990, pp. 200–202. The religious outlook was some versions of Protestantism (1.6% of the population were English, German and Irish Catholics ).\n\nThe British colonies inherited the English language, legal system, and British culture, which was the majority cultural heritage. Parts of what are now the United States were colonized by France, Spain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Russia, and Japan (Northern Mariana Islands and briefly Guam). Though eventually overtaken by British or American territorial expansion, the longer they lasted the more these earlier colonial societies contributed to modern-day culture, including place names, architecture, religion, language, and food.\n\nJeffersonian democracy was a foundational American cultural innovation, which is still a core part of the country's identity. Thomas Jefferson's \"Notes on the State of Virginia\" was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and was written in reaction to the views of some influential Europeans that America's native flora, fauna, including humans, were degenerate.\n\nMajor cultural influences have been brought by historical immigration, especially from Germany in much of the country, Ireland and Italy in the Northeast, Japan in Hawaii. Latin American culture is especially pronounced in former Spanish areas but has also been introduced by immigration, as has Asian American cultures (especially on the West Coast). Forced migration during the Atlantic slave trade, followed by liberation won in the American Civil War created African-American culture which pervades the South and other areas receiving internal immigrants during the Great Migrations. Blending Southern and traditional African culture to some degree, this uniquely American culture has its own dialect; has contributed significant innovation in music, dance, and fashion; embraced a struggle by many African-Americans for political and economic equality; and is associated with significant populations of African-American Muslims and Christians in \"Black churches\". Rap and music videos featuring African-American urban street culture have appeared in countries and melded with local performance cultures worldwide.\n\nThough many mainland Native American tribes and nations were overpowered by European colonists and American territorial expansion, but even in the areas they were pushed out of left cultural influences such as place names, knowledge about New World crops; cultural appropriation and the history military rivalry resulted in Native American-themed sports mascots. Native culture remains strong in areas with large undisturbed or relocated populations, including traditional government and communal organization of property now legally managed by Indian reservations (large reservations are mostly in the West, especially Arizona and South Dakota). The fate of native culture after contact with Europeans is quite varied. For example, Taíno culture in U.S. Caribbean territories is nearly extinct and like most Native American languages, the Taíno language is no longer spoken. In contrast the Hawaiian language and culture of the Native Hawaiians has survived in Hawaii and mixed with that of immigrants from the mainland U.S. (starting before the 1898 annexation) and to some degree Japanese immigrants. It occasionally influences mainstream American culture with notable exports like surfing and Hawaiian shirts. Most languages native to what is now U.S. territory have gone extinct, and the economic and mainstream cultural dominance of English threatens the surviving ones in most places. The most common native languages include Samoan, Hawaiian, Navajo language, Cherokee, Sioux, and a spectrum of Inuit languages. (See Indigenous languages of the Americas for a fuller listing, plus Chamorro, and Carolinian in the Pacific territories.) Ethnic Samoans are a majority in American Samoa; Chamorro are still the largest ethnic group in Guam (though a minority), and along with Refaluwasch are smaller minorities in the Northern Mariana Islands.\n\nAmerican culture includes both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious competitiveness, political structures, risk taking and free expression, materialist and moral elements. Despite certain consistent ideological principles (e.g. individualism, egalitarianism, and faith in freedom and democracy), American culture has a variety of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic diversity. The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic identity; others see it as American exceptionalism.\n\nThe United States has traditionally been thought of as a melting pot, with immigrants contributing to but eventually assimilating with mainstream American culture. However, beginning in the 1960s and continuing on in the present day, the country trends towards cultural diversity, pluralism, and the image of a salad bowl instead. Throughout the country's history, certain subcultures (whether based on ethnicity or other commonality, such as the gay village) have dominated certain neighborhoods, only partially melded with the broader culture. Due to the extent of American culture, there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States, some not tied to any particular geography. The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background, occupation, and ethnic group membership.\n\nMass media promote cross-cultural diffusion. Some subcultures have national media exposure with dedicated television channels and crossover with mainstream media (such as Latin, African American, and LGBT culture, though there are many niche channels). Some communities have local broadcast or paper publications that carry content from a specific culture, such as native radio stations or Chinese-language newspapers in Chinatowns. Almost every subculture has a presence on the World Wide Web and social media.\n\nMilitary history has influenced American culture and its worldwide reach in several ways. German cuisine became stigmatized by World War I; but in contrast the end of World War II resulted in cross-fertilization of American and Japanese business techniques during reconstruction and occupation, and brought home troops with an increased taste for Italian dishes. Wars have also forced progress on equal rights for women and racial minorities, as these groups proved their till-then unrealized potential either in industry while men were off fighting, or by serving in the military honorably and effectively. The American Civil War highlighted differences in culture (including attitudes toward racism) between the Southern United States and the North. Though the issue of slavery was settled by the war, racism and discrimination persisted and were supported by laws in some Southern states. Combined with determined civil rights activism, later wars resulted in profound changes in social norms, including desegregation, more intermixing of Black and White cultures, and more egalitarian social roles for men and women compared to countries that have not undergone similar shifts. Modern display of the Confederate flag and removal of Confederate monuments and memorials remain controversial cultural and political issues, though many elements of proud Southern identity and culture such as hospitality, drawl, and comfort food have nothing to do with racial division. Some differences in modern cultural tendencies fall along liberal-conservative political lines, with people on both sides of that increasingly self-segregating.\n\nThe post-WWII economic and military power of the United States (not to mention its large, relatively unified population) also helped it become more of an exporter of its own culture and values compared to its initial tendency to import of European culture (especially in its early, largely rural decades). The United States has also administered now-foreign territories for many years, creating opportunities for cultural intermingling among many government employees and military personnel. The longest stays have included the Philippines (1898–1946), Panama Canal Zone (1903–1979), Haiti (1915-1934,), the Dominican Republic (1916-1924), and various Japanese islands and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands for decades after WWII.\n\nColonists from the United States formed the now-independent country of Liberia, which inherited a considerable amount of American culture and values. Given its proximity, relatively free movement over the border, the highly integrated North American economy, strong military alliance, shared origins in British colonialism, and a common language, the English-speaking culture of Canada is strongly influenced by that of the United States. Some Canadians resist the dominance of the United States includes requirements for domestically produced mass media, though especially since the Hollywood North phenomenon began in the 1980s, Canada also exports entertainment to the United States. American movies may have made the biggest impact of all American exports on popular culture worldwide.\n\nSemi-distinct cultural regions of the United States include New England, the Mid-Atlantic states, the Southern United States, the Midwestern United States and the Western United States—an area that can be further subdivided, on the basis of the local culture into the Pacific States and the Mountain States.\n\nThe western coast of the continental United States consisting of California, Oregon, and the state of Washington is also sometimes referred to as the Left Coast, indicating its left-leaning political orientation and tendency towards social liberalism.\n\nSouthern United States are informally called \"the Bible Belt\" due to socially conservative evangelical Protestantism, which is a significant part of the region's culture and Christian church attendance across the denominations is generally higher there than the nation's average. This region is usually contrasted with the mainline Protestantism and Catholicism of the northeastern United States, the religiously diverse Midwest and Great Lakes, the Mormon Corridor in Utah and southern Idaho, and the relatively secular western United States. The percentage of non-religious people is the highest in the northeastern state of Vermont at 34%, compared to the Bible Belt state of Alabama, where it is 6%.\n\nStrong cultural differences have a long history in the U.S. with the southern slave society in the antebellum period serving as a prime example. Not only social, but also economic tensions between the Northern and Southern states were so severe that they eventually caused the South to declare itself an independent nation, the Confederate States of America; thus initiating the American Civil War.\n\nDavid Hackett Fischer theorizes that the United States is made up today of four distinct regional cultures. The book's focus is on the folkways of four groups of settlers from the British Isles that emigrated from distinct regions of Britain and Ireland to the British American colonies during the 17th and 18th centuries. Fischer's thesis is that the culture and folkways of each of these groups persisted, albeit with some modification over time, providing the basis for the four modern regional cultures of the United States.\n\nAccording to Fischer, the foundation of American culture was formed from four mass migrations from four different regions of the British Isles by four distinct socio-religious groups. New England's earliest settlement period occurred between 1629 and 1640 when Puritans, mostly from East Anglia in England, settled there, forming the New England regional culture. The next mass migration was of southern English cavaliers and their working class English domestic servants to the Chesapeake Bay region between 1640 and 1675. This facilitated the development of the Southern American culture.\n\nThen (between 1675 and 1725), thousands of English and Welsh Quakers, led by William Penn, settled in the Delaware Valley followed by large numbers of German Lutherans. This settlement resulted in the formation of what is today considered the \"General American\" culture, although, according to Fischer, it is really just a regional American culture, even if it does today encompass most of the U.S. from the mid-Atlantic states to the Pacific Coast. Finally, Scotch-Irish, English and Scottish settlers from the borderlands of Britain and Ireland migrated to Appalachia between 1717 and 1775. They formed the regional culture of the Upland South, which has since spread west to such areas as West Texas and parts of the U.S. Southwest.\n\nFischer suggests that the U.S. today is not a country with one General American culture and three or more regional sub-cultures. He asserts that the country is composed of just regional cultures, and that understanding that helps one to understand many things about modern American life. Fischer also makes the point that the development of these regional cultures derived not only from where exactly the settlers first came, but when they came. Fischer asserts that during different periods of time, a population of people will have very distinct beliefs, fears, hopes and prejudices, and that various groups of settlers brought these feelings to the New World where they more or less froze in time in America, even if they eventually changed in their place of origin.\n\nContinuing the work of Fischer, Colin Woodard, in his book \"American Nations\", claims an existence of eleven rival regional cultures in North America, based on the cultural characteristics of the original settlers of these regions. These regions are: Yankeedom, New Netherland, The Midlands, Tidewater, Greater Appalachia, The Deep South, New France, El Norte, The Left Coast, The Far West and First Nation (a region in parts of northern Canada and Alaska, and Greenland).\n\nAccording to Woodard, these regions cross and disregard formal state or even country borders. For example, he compares the Mexican border with the Berlin wall, saying that \"El Norte in some ways resembles Germany during the Cold War: two peoples with a common culture separated by a large wall.\"\n\nAlthough the United States has no official language at the federal level, 28 states have passed legislation making English the official language and it is considered to be the \"de facto\" national language. According to the 2000 U.S. Census, more than 97% of Americans can speak English well, and for 81% it is the only language spoken at home. More than 300 languages besides English have native speakers in the United States—some of which are spoken by the indigenous peoples (about 150 living languages) and others imported by immigrants.\n\nSpanish has official status in the commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the state of New Mexico; Spanish is the primary spoken language in Puerto Rico and various smaller linguistic enclaves. According to the 2000 census, there are nearly 30 million native speakers of Spanish in the United States. Bilingual speakers may use both English and Spanish reasonably well but code-switch according to their dialog partner or context. Some refer to this phenomenon as Spanglish.\n\nIndigenous languages of the United States include the Native American languages, which are spoken on the country's numerous Indian reservations and Native American cultural events such as pow wows; Hawaiian, which has official status in the state of Hawaii; Chamorro, which has official status in the commonwealths of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands; Carolinian, which has official status in the commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and Samoan, which has official status in the commonwealth of American Samoa. American Sign Language, used mainly by the deaf, is also native to the country.\n\nThe national dialect is known as American English, which itself consists of numerous regional dialects but has some shared unifying features that distinguish it from other national varieties of English. There are four large dialect regions in the United States—the North, the Midland, the South, and the West—and several smaller dialect regions such as those of New York City, Philadelphia, and Boston. A standard dialect called \"General American\" (analogous in some respects to the received pronunciation elsewhere in the English-speaking world), lacking the distinctive noticeable features of any particular region, is believed by some to exist as well; it is sometimes regionally associated with the vaguely-defined \"Midwest\".\n\nThe following information is an estimation as actual statistics constantly vary.\n\nAccording to the CIA, the following is the percentage of total population's native languages in the United States:\n\nThe right to freedom of expression in the American constitution can be traced to German immigrant John Peter Zenger and his legal fight to make truthful publications in the Colonies a protected legal right, ultimately paving the way for the protected rights of American authors.\n\nIn the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, American art and literature took most of its cues from Europe. During its early history, America was a series of British colonies on the eastern coast of the present-day United States. Therefore, its literary tradition begins as linked to the broader tradition of English literature. However, unique American characteristics and the breadth of its production usually now cause it to be considered a separate path and tradition.\n\nAmerica's first internationally popular writers were James Fenimore Cooper and Washington Irving in the early nineteenth century. They painted an American literary landscape full of humor and adventure. These were followed by Nathaniel Hawthorne, Edgar Allan Poe, Herman Melville, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and Henry David Thoreau who established a distinctive American literary voice in the middle of the nineteenth century.\n\nMark Twain, Henry James, and poet Walt Whitman were major figures in the century's second half; Emily Dickinson, virtually unknown during her lifetime, would be recognized as America's other essential poet. Eleven U.S. citizens have won the Nobel Prize in Literature, including John Steinbeck, William Faulkner, Eugene O'Neill, Pearl S. Buck, T. S. Eliot and Sinclair Lewis. Ernest Hemingway, the 1954 Nobel laureate, is often named as one of the most influential writers of the twentieth century.\n\nA work seen as capturing fundamental aspects of the national experience and character—such as Herman Melville's \"Moby-Dick\" (1851), Twain's \"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\" (1885), F. Scott Fitzgerald's \"The Great Gatsby\" (1925), and Harper Lee's \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" (1960)— may be dubbed the \"Great American Novel\". Popular literary genres such as the Western and hardboiled crime fiction were developed in the United States.\n\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, American artists primarily painted landscapes and portraits in a realistic style. A parallel development taking shape in rural America was the American craft movement, which began as a reaction to the Industrial Revolution. Developments in modern art in Europe came to America from exhibitions in New York City such as the Armory Show in 1913. After World War II, New York emerged as a center of the art world. Painting in the United States today covers a vast range of styles. American painting includes works by Jackson Pollock, John Singer Sargent, and Norman Rockwell, among many others.\n\nArchitecture in the United States is regionally diverse and has been shaped by many external forces, not only English. U.S. architecture can therefore be said to be eclectic, something unsurprising in such a multicultural society. In the absence of a single large-scale architectural influence from indigenous peoples such as those in Mexico or Peru, generations of designers have incorporated influences from around the world. Currently, the overriding theme of American Architecture is modernity, as manifest in the skyscrapers of the 20th century.\n\nEarly Neoclassicism accompanied the Founding Father's idealization of European Enlightenment, making it the predominant architectural style for public buildings and large manors. However, in recent years, suburbanization and mass migration to the Sun Belt has allowed architecture to reflect a Mediterranean style as well.\n\nTheater of the United States is based in the Western tradition and did not take on a unique dramatic identity until the emergence of Eugene O'Neill in the early twentieth century, now considered by many to be the father of American drama. O'Neill is a four-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize for drama and the only American playwright to win the Nobel Prize for literature. After O'Neill, American drama came of age and flourished with the likes of Arthur Miller, Tennessee Williams, Lillian Hellman, William Inge, and Clifford Odets during the first half of the twentieth century. After this fertile period, American theater broke new ground, artistically, with the absurdist forms of Edward Albee in the 1960s.\n\nSocial commentary has also been a preoccupation of American theater, often addressing issues not discussed in the mainstream. Writers such as Lorraine Hansbury, August Wilson, David Mamet and Tony Kushner have all won Pulitzer Prizes for their polemical plays on American society. The United States is also the home and largest exporter of modern musical theater, producing such musical talents as Rodgers and Hammerstein, Lerner and Loewe, Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, Leonard Bernstein, George and Ira Gershwin, Kander and Ebb, and Stephen Sondheim. Broadway is one of the largest theater communities in the world and is the epicenter of American commercial theater.\n\nAmerican music styles and influences (such as rock and roll, jazz, rock, techno, soul, country, hip-hop, blues) and music based on them can be heard all over the world. Music in the U.S. is diverse. It includes African-American influence in the 20th century. The first half of this century is famous for jazz, introduced by African-Americans. In the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, rock, and Pop music was prevalent. According to music journalist Robert Christgau, \"pop music is more African than any other facet of American culture.\"\n\nThe United States is represented by various genres of dance, from ballet to hip-hop and folk.\n\nThe cinema of the United States, often generally referred to as Hollywood, has had a profound effect on cinema across the world since the early twentieth century. While the Lumiere Brothers are generally credited with the birth of modern cinema, it is American cinema that has emerged as the most dominant force in the industry. Its history can be separated into four main periods: the silent film era, classical Hollywood cinema, New Hollywood, and the contemporary period. Actor James Dean, who appeared in films during the classical Hollywood era until his untimely death, is widely regarded as an American cultural icon of teenage disillusionment.\n\nAmerican independent cinema was revitalized in the late 1980s and early 1990s when another new generation of moviemakers, including Spike Lee, Steven Soderbergh, Kevin Smith, and Quentin Tarantino made movies like, respectively: \"Do the Right Thing\"; \"Sex, Lies, and Videotape\"; \"Clerks\"; and \"Reservoir Dogs\". In terms of directing, screenwriting, editing, and other elements, these movies were innovative and often irreverent, playing with and contradicting the conventions of Hollywood movies. Furthermore, their considerable financial successes and crossover into popular culture reestablished the commercial viability of independent film. Since then, the independent film industry has become more clearly defined and more influential in American cinema. Many of the major studios have capitalized on this by developing subsidiaries to produce similar films; for example Fox Searchlight Pictures.\n\nTo a lesser degree in the early 21st century, film types that were previously considered to have only a minor presence in the mainstream movie market began to arise as more potent American box office draws. These include foreign-language films such as \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\", \"Baahubali 2\" and \"Hero\" and documentary films such as \"Super Size Me\", \"March of the Penguins\", and Michael Moore's \"Bowling for Columbine\" and \"Fahrenheit 9/11\".\n\nTelevision is a major mass media of the United States. Household ownership of television sets in the country is 96.7%, and the majority of households have more than one set. The peak ownership percentage of households with at least one television set occurred during the 1996–97 season, with 98.4% ownership. As a whole, the television networks of the United States are the largest and most syndicated in the world.\n\nAs of August 2013, approximately 114,200,000 American households own at least one television set.\n\nDue to a recent surge in the number and popularity of critically acclaimed television series, many critics have said that American television is currently enjoying a golden age.\n\nThere is a regard for scientific advancement and technological innovation in American culture, resulting in the flow of many modern innovations. The great American inventors include Robert Fulton (the steamboat); Samuel Morse (the telegraph); Eli Whitney (the cotton gin, interchangeable parts); Cyrus McCormick (the reaper); and Thomas Edison (with more than a thousand inventions credited to his name). Most of the new technological innovations over the 20th and 21st centuries were either first invented in the United States, first widely adopted by Americans, or both. Examples include the lightbulb, the airplane, the transistor, the atomic bomb, nuclear power, the personal computer, the iPod, video games, online shopping, and the development of the Internet.\nThis propensity for application of scientific ideas continued throughout the 20th century with innovations that held strong international benefits. The twentieth century saw the arrival of the Space Age, the Information Age, and a renaissance in the health sciences. This culminated in cultural milestones such as the Apollo moon landings, the creation of the Personal Computer, and the sequencing effort called the Human Genome Project.\n\nThroughout its history, American culture has made significant gains through the open immigration of accomplished scientists. Accomplished scientists include: Scottish-American scientist Alexander Graham Bell, who developed and patented the telephone and other devices; German scientist Charles Steinmetz, who developed new alternating-current electrical systems in 1889; Russian scientist Vladimir Zworykin, who invented the motion camera in 1919; Serb scientist Nikola Tesla who patented a brushless electrical induction motor based on rotating magnetic fields in 1888. With the rise of the Nazi party in Germany, a large number of Jewish scientists fled Germany and immigrated to the country, including theoretical physicist Albert Einstein in 1933.\n\nIn the years during and following WWII, several innovative scientists immigrated to the U.S. from Europe, such as Enrico Fermi, who came from Italy in 1938 and led the work that produced the world's first self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction. Post-war Europe saw many of its scientists, such as rocket scientist Wernher von Braun, recruited by the United States as part of Operation Paperclip.\n\nEducation in the United States is and has historically been provided mainly by government. Control and funding come from three levels: federal, state, and local. School attendance is mandatory and nearly universal at the elementary and high school levels (often known outside the United States as the primary and secondary levels).\n\nStudents have the options of having their education held in public schools, private schools, or home school. In most public and private schools, education is divided into three levels: elementary school, junior high school (also often called middle school), and high school. In almost all schools at these levels, children are divided by age groups into grades. Post-secondary education, better known as \"college\" in the United States, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school system.\n\nIn the year 2000, there were 76.6 million students enrolled in schools from kindergarten through graduate schools. Of these, 72 percent aged 12 to 17 were judged academically \"on track\" for their age (enrolled in school at or above grade level). Of those enrolled in compulsory education, 5.2 million (10.4 percent) were attending private schools. Among the country's adult population, over 85 percent have completed high school and 27 percent have received a bachelor's degree or higher.\n\nAmong developed countries, the U.S. is one of the most religious in terms of its demographics. According to a 2002 study by the Pew Global Attitudes Project, the U.S. was the only developed nation in the survey where a majority of citizens reported that religion played a \"very important\" role in their lives, an opinion similar to that found in Latin America. Today, governments at the national, state, and local levels are a secular institution, with what is often called the \"separation of church and state\".\n\nAlthough participation in organized religion has been diminishing, the public life and popular culture of the United States incorporates many Christian ideals specifically about redemption, salvation, conscience, and morality. Examples are popular culture obsessions with confession and forgiveness, which extends from reality television to twelve-step meetings. Americans expect public figures to confess and have public penitence for any sins, or moral wrongdoings they may have caused. According to \"Salon\", examples of inadequate public penitence may include the scandals and fallout regarding Tiger Woods, Alex Rodriguez, Mel Gibson, Larry Craig, and Lance Armstrong.\nSeveral of the original Thirteen Colonies were established by English settlers who wished to practice their own religion without discrimination or persecution: Pennsylvania was established by Quakers, Maryland by Roman Catholics, and the Massachusetts Bay Colony by Puritans. Separatist Congregationalists (Pilgrim Fathers) founded Plymouth Colony in 1620. They were convinced that the democratic form of government was the will of God. They and the other Protestant groups applied the representative democratic organisation of their congregations also to the administration of their communities in worldly matters. Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania added religious freedom to their democratic constitutions, becoming safe havens for persecuted religious minorities. The first Bible printed in a European language in the Colonies was by German immigrant Christopher Sauer. Nine of the thirteen colonies had official public religions. By the time of the Philadelphia Convention of 1787, the United States became one of the first countries in the world to codify freedom of religion into law, although this originally applied only to the federal government, and not to state governments or their political subdivisions.\n\nModeling the provisions concerning religion within the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, the framers of the United States Constitution rejected any religious test for office, and the First Amendment specifically denied the central government any power to enact any law respecting either an establishment of religion, or prohibiting its free exercise. In following decades, the animating spirit behind the constitution's Establishment Clause led to the disestablishment of the official religions within the member states. The framers were mainly influenced by secular, Enlightenment ideals, but they also considered the pragmatic concerns of minority religious groups who did not want to be under the power or influence of a state religion that did not represent them. Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of Independence said: \"The priest has been hostile to liberty. He is always in alliance with the despot.\"\n\nThe following information is an estimation as actual statistics constantly vary. According to the Pew Research Center's Religious Landscape Survey, the following is the percentage of followers of different religions in the United States:\n\nThe United States observes holidays derived from events in American history, Christian traditions, and national patriarchs.\n\nThanksgiving is the principal traditionally American holiday. It evolved from the English Pilgrim's custom of giving thanks for one's welfare. Thanksgiving is generally celebrated as a family reunion with a large afternoon feast. Christmas Day, celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ, is widely celebrated and a federal holiday, though a fair amount of its current cultural importance is due to secular reasons. European colonization has led to some other Christian holidays such as Easter and St. Patrick's Day to be observed, though with varying degrees of religious fidelity.\n\nIndependence Day (also known as the Fourth of July) celebrates the anniversary of the country's Declaration of Independence from Great Britain. It is generally observed by parades throughout the day and the shooting of fireworks at night.\n\nHalloween is thought to have evolved from the ancient Celtic/Gaelic festival of Samhain, which was introduced in the American colonies by Irish settlers. It has become a holiday that is celebrated by children and teens who traditionally dress up in costumes and go door to door trick-or-treating for candy. It also brings about an emphasis on eerie and frightening urban legends and movies.\n\nAdditionally, Mardi Gras, which evolved from the Catholic tradition of Carnival, is observed in New Orleans, St. Louis, Mobile, Alabama, and numerous other towns.\n\nFederally recognized holidays are as follows:\n\n\nThe United States has few laws governing given names. Traditionally, the right to name your child or yourself as you choose has been upheld by court rulings and is rooted in the Due Process Clause of the fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution and the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment. A few restrictions do exist. Restrictions vary by state, but most are for the sake of practicality (for example: limiting the number of characters due to limitations in record keeping software). This freedom, along with the cultural diversity in the United States has given rise to a wide variety of names and naming trends. Creativity has also long been a part of American naming traditions and names have been used to express personality, cultural identity, and values Naming trends vary by race, geographic area, and socioeconomic status. African-Americans, for instance, have developed a very distinct naming culture. Both religious names and those inspired by popular culture are common.\n\nFashion in the United States is eclectic and predominantly informal. While Americans' diverse cultural roots are reflected in their clothing, particularly those of recent immigrants, cowboy hats and boots and leather motorcycle jackets are emblematic of specifically American styles.\n\nBlue jeans were popularized as work clothes in the 1850s by merchant Levi Strauss, a German-Jewish immigrant in San Francisco, and adopted by many American teenagers a century later. They are worn in every state by people of all ages and social classes. Along with mass-marketed informal wear in general, blue jeans are arguably one of US culture's primary contributions to global fashion.\n\nThough informal dress is more common, certain professionals, such as bankers and lawyers, traditionally dress formally for work, and some occasions, such as weddings, funerals, dances, and some parties, typically call for formal wear.\n\nSince 1820, American schools focused on gymnastics, hygiene training, and care and development of the human body. In the 1800s, colleges were encouraged to focus on intramural sports, particularly track, field, and, in the late 1800s, American football. Physical education was incorporated into primary school curriculums in the 20th century.\nBaseball is the oldest of the major American team sports. Professional baseball dates from 1869 and had no close rivals in popularity until the 1960s. Though baseball is no longer the most popular sport, it is still referred to as \"the national pastime.\" Also unlike the professional levels of the other popular spectator sports in the U.S., Major League Baseball teams play almost every day. The Major League Baseball regular season consists of each of the 30 teams playing 162 games from April to September. The season ends with the postseason and World Series in October.\nAmerican football, known in the United States as simply \"football,\" now attracts more television viewers than any other sport and is considered to be the most popular sport in the United States. The 32-team National Football League (NFL) is the most popular professional American football league.\nThe National Football League differs from the other three major pro sports leagues in that each of its 32 teams plays one game a week over 17 weeks, for a total of 16 games with one bye week for each team. The NFL season lasts from September to December, ending with the playoffs and Super Bowl in January and February.\nIts championship game, the Super Bowl, has often been the highest rated television show, and it has an audience of over 100 million viewers annually.\n\nCollege football also attracts audiences of millions. Some communities, particularly in rural areas, place great emphasis on their local high school football team. American football games usually include cheerleaders and marching bands, which aim to raise school spirit and entertain the crowd at halftime.\n\nBasketball is another major sport, represented professionally by the National Basketball Association. It was invented in Springfield, Massachusetts in 1891, by Canadian-born physical education teacher James Naismith. College basketball is also popular, due in large part to the NCAA men's Division I basketball tournament in March, also known as \"March Madness.\"\n\nIce hockey is the fourth leading professional team sport. Always a mainstay of Great Lakes and New England-area culture, the sport gained tenuous footholds in regions like the American South since the early 1990s, as the National Hockey League pursued a policy of expansion.\n\nLacrosse is a team sport of American and Canadian Native American origin and is the fastest growing sport in the United States. Lacrosse is most popular in the East Coast area. NLL and MLL are the national box and outdoor lacrosse leagues, respectively, and have increased their following in recent years. Also, many of the top Division I college lacrosse teams draw upwards of 7–10,000 for a game, especially in the Mid-Atlantic and New England areas.\n\nSoccer is very popular as a participation sport, particularly among youth, and the US national teams are competitive internationally. A twenty-team professional league, Major League Soccer, plays from March to October, but its television audience and overall popularity lag behind other American professional sports.\nBoxing and horse racing were once the most watched individual sports, but they have been eclipsed by golf and auto racing, particularly NASCAR. Other popular sports are tennis, softball, rodeo, swimming, water polo, fencing, shooting sports, hunting, volleyball, skiing, snowboarding, skateboarding, Ultimate, Disc golf, cycling, MMA, roller derby, wrestling, weightlifting and rugby.\n\nRelative to other parts of the world, the United States is unusually competitive in women's sports, a fact usually attributed to the Title IX antidiscrimination law, which requires most American colleges to give equal funding to men's and women's sports. Despite that, however, women's sports are not nearly as popular among spectators as men's sports.\n\nThe United States enjoys a great deal of success both in the Summer Olympics and Winter Olympics, constantly finishing among the top medal winners.\n\nHomecoming is an annual tradition of the United States. People, towns, high schools and colleges come together, usually in late September or early October, to welcome back former residents and alumni. It is built around a central event, such as a banquet, a parade, and most often, a game of American football, or, on occasion, basketball, wrestling or ice hockey. When celebrated by schools, the activities vary. However, they usually consist of a football game, played on the school's home football field, activities for students and alumni, a parade featuring the school's marching band and sports teams, and the coronation of a Homecoming Queen.\n\nAmerican high schools commonly field football, basketball, baseball, softball, volleyball, soccer, golf, swimming, track and field, and cross-country teams as well.\n\nThe cuisine of the United States is extremely diverse, owing to the vastness of the continent, the relatively large population (1/3 of a billion people) and the number of native and immigrant influences. Mainstream American culinary arts are similar to those in other Western countries. Wheat and corn are the primary cereal grains. Traditional American cuisine uses ingredients such as turkey, potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn, squash, and maple syrup, indigenous foods employed by American Indians and early European settlers, African slaves and their descendants.\n\nThe types of food served at home vary greatly and depend upon the region of the country and the family's own cultural heritage. Recent immigrants tend to eat food similar to that of their country of origin, and Americanized versions of these cultural foods, such as American Chinese cuisine, Tex-Mex (Mexican-American cuisine) or Italian-American cuisine often eventually appear; an example is Vietnamese cuisine, Korean cuisine and Thai cuisine. German cuisine has a profound impact on American cuisine, especially mid-western cuisine; potatoes, noodles, roasts, stews, cakes, and other pastries are the most iconic ingredients in both cuisines. Dishes such as the hamburger, pot roast, baked ham, and hot dogs are examples of American dishes derived from German cuisine.\nDifferent regions of the United States have their own cuisine and styles of cooking. The states of Louisiana and Mississippi, for example, is known for its Cajun and Creole cooking. Cajun and Creole cooking are influenced by French, Acadian, and Haitian cooking, although the dishes themselves are original and unique. Examples include Crawfish Etouffee, Red Beans and Rice, Seafood or Chicken Gumbo, Jambalaya, and Boudin. Italian, German, Hungarian and Chinese influences, traditional Native American, Caribbean, Mexican and Greek dishes have also diffused into the general American repertoire. It is not uncommon for a \"middle-class\" family from \"middle America\" to eat, for example, restaurant pizza, home-made pizza, enchiladas con carne, chicken paprikas, beef stroganof and bratwurst with sauerkraut for dinner throughout a single week.\n\nSoul food, mostly the same as food eaten by white southerners, developed by southern African slaves, and their free descendants, is popular around the South and among many African-Americans elsewhere. Syncretic cuisines such as Louisiana creole, Cajun, Pennsylvania Dutch, and Tex-Mex are regionally important. Iconic American dishes such as apple pie, fried chicken, pizza, hamburgers, and hot dogs derive from the recipes of various immigrants and domestic innovations. French fries, Mexican dishes such as burritos and tacos, and pasta dishes freely adapted from Italian sources are consumed.\n\nAmericans generally prefer coffee to tea, and more than half the adult population drinks at least one cup a day. Marketing by U.S. industries is largely responsible for making orange juice and milk (now often fat-reduced) ubiquitous breakfast beverages. During the 1980s and 1990s, Americans' caloric intake rose 24%; frequent dining at fast food outlets is associated with what health officials call the American \"obesity epidemic.\" Highly sweetened soft drinks are popular; sugared beverages account for 9% of the average American's daily caloric intake.\nHamburgers, fries, and doughnuts are considered American foods.\n\nSome representative American foods\n\nFamily arrangements in the United States reflect the nature of contemporary American society, as they always have. Although the nuclear family concept (two-married adults with biological children) holds a special place in the mindset of Americans, it is single-parent families, childless couples, and fused families which now constitute the majority of families. A person may grow up in a single-parent family, go on to marry and live in childless couple arrangement, then get divorced, live as a single for a couple of years, remarry, have children and live in a nuclear family arrangement.\n\nThe nuclear family... is the idealized version of what most people think when they think of \"family...\" The old definition of what a family is... the nuclear family- no longer seems adequate to cover the wide diversity of household arrangements we see today, according to many social scientists (Edwards 1991; Stacey 1996). Thus has arisen the term \"postmodern family\", which is meant to describe the great variability in family forms, including single-parent families and child-free couples.- Brian K. Williams, Stacey C. Sawyer, Carl M. Wahlstrom, \"Marriages, Families & Intimate Relationships\", 2005.\n\nSingle-parent households are households consisting of a single adult (most often a woman) and one or more children. In the single-parent household, one parent typically raises the children with little to no help at all, from the other. This parent is the sole \"breadwinner\" of the family and thus, these households are particularly vulnerable economically. They have higher rates of poverty, and children of these households are more likely to have educational problems.\n\nOther changes to the landscape of American family arrangements include dual-income earner households and delayed independence among American youths. Whereas most families in the 1950s and 1960s relied on one income earner, most commonly the husband, the vast majority of family households now have two-income earners.\n\nAnother change is the increasing age at which young Americans leave their parental home. Traditionally, a person past \"college age\" who lived with their parent(s) was viewed negatively, but today it is not uncommon for children to live with their parents until their mid-twenties. This trend can be mostly attributed to rising living costs that are more expensive compared to those in decades past. Thus, many young adults now remain with their parents well past their mid-twenties. This topic was a cover article of TIME magazine in 2005.\n\nExceptions to the custom of leaving home in one's mid-twenties can occur especially among Italian and Hispanic Americans, and in expensive urban real estate markets such as New York City, California, and Honolulu, where monthly rents commonly exceed $1,000 a month.\n\nHistorically, Americans mainly lived in a rural environment, with a few important cities of moderate size. Following World War II, however, increasing numbers of Americans began living in the suburbs, belts around major cities with higher density than rural areas, but much lower than urban areas. This move has been attributed to many factors such as the automobile, the availability of large tracts of land, the convenience of more and longer paved roads, increasing violence in urban centers (see white flight), and the lower expense of housing.\nThese new single-family houses were usually one or two stories tall, and often were part of large contracts of homes built by a single developer and often with little variation (sometimes referred to as cookie cutter houses or homes). Houses were separated. The resulting low-density development was given the pejorative label urban sprawl.\n\nThis has changed; white flight has reversed, as Yuppies and upper-middle-class, empty nest Baby Boomers return to urban living, usually in condominiums, such as in New York City's Lower East Side, Chicago's South Loop and Miami's Brickell Neighborhood. The result has been the displacement of many poorer, inner-city residents.\n\nAmerican cities with housing prices near the national median have also been losing the middle income neighborhoods, those with median income between 80% and 120% of the metropolitan area's median household income. Here, the more affluent members of the middle-class, who are also often referred to as being professional or upper middle-class, have left in search of larger homes in more exclusive suburbs. This trend is largely attributed to the \"Middle-class squeeze\", which has caused a starker distinction between the statistical middle class and the more privileged members of the middle class. In more expensive areas such as California, however, another trend has been taking place where an influx of more affluent middle-class households has displaced those in the actual middle of society and converted former middle-middle-class neighborhoods into upper-middle-class neighborhoods.\n\nThe population of rural areas has been declining over time as more and more people migrate to cities for work and entertainment. The great exodus from the farms came in the 1940s; in recent years fewer than 2% of the population lives on farms (though others live in the countryside and commute to work). Electricity and telephones, and sometimes cable and Internet services are available to all but the most remote regions.\nAbout half of Americans now live in what is known as the suburbs. The suburban nuclear family has been identified as part of the \"American Dream\": a married couple with children owning a house in the suburbs. This archetype is reinforced by mass media, religious practices, and government policies and is based on traditions from Anglo-Saxon cultures. One of the biggest differences in suburban living as compared to urban living; is the housing occupied by the families. The suburbs are filled with single-family homes separated from retail districts, industrial areas, and sometimes even public schools. However, many American suburbs are incorporating these districts on smaller scales, attracting more people to these communities.\n\nHousing in urban areas may include more apartments and semi-attached homes than in the suburbs or small towns. Aside from housing, the major differences from suburban living are the density and diversity of many different subcultures, and retail and manufacturing buildings mixed with housing in urban areas.\n\nDue to the low overall population density and urban sprawl, the United States is one of the few developed nations where most people commute by car.\n\nThe rise of suburbs and the need for workers to commute to cities brought about the popularity of automobiles. In 2001, 90% of Americans drove to work by car. Lower energy and land costs favor the production of relatively large, powerful cars. The culture in the 1950s and 1960s often catered to the automobile with motels and drive-in restaurants. Outside of the relatively few urban areas, it is considered a necessity for most Americans to own and drive cars. New York City is the only locality in the United States where more than half of all households do not own a car.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s subcultures began to arise around the modification and racing of American automobiles and converting them into hot rods. Later, in the late-1960s and early-1970s Detroit manufacturers began making muscle cars and pony cars to cater to the needs of wealthier Americans seeking hot rod style, performance and appeal.\n\nThough most Americans in the 21st century identify themselves as middle class, American society and its culture are considerably fragmented. Social class, generally described as a combination of educational attainment, income and occupational prestige, is one of the greatest cultural influences in America. Nearly all cultural aspects of mundane interactions and consumer behavior in the U.S. are guided by a person's location within the country's social structure.\n\nDistinct lifestyles, consumption patterns and values are associated with different classes. Early sociologist-economist Thorstein Veblen, for example, said that those at the very top of the social ladder engage in conspicuous leisure and conspicuous consumption. Upper-middle-class persons commonly identify education and being cultured as prime values. Persons in this particular social class tend to speak in a more direct manner that projects authority, knowledge and thus credibility. They often tend to engage in the consumption of so-called mass luxuries, such as designer label clothing. A strong preference for natural materials and organic foods and a strong health consciousness tend to be prominent features of the upper middle class. American middle-class individuals in general value expanding one's horizon, partially because they are more educated and can afford greater leisure and travels. Working-class individuals take great pride in doing what they consider to be \"real work\" and keep very close-knit kin networks that serve as a safeguard against frequent economic instability.\n\nWorking-class Americans and many of those in the middle class may also face occupation alienation. In contrast to upper-middle-class professionals who are mostly hired to conceptualize, supervise, and share their thoughts, many Americans have little autonomy or creative latitude in the workplace. As a result, white collar professionals tend to be significantly more satisfied with their work. In 2006, Elizabeth Warren presented her article entitled \"The Middle Class on the Precipice\", stating that individuals in the center of the income strata, who may still identify as middle class, have faced increasing economic insecurity, supporting the idea of a working-class majority.\n\nPolitical behavior is affected by class; more affluent individuals are more likely to vote, and education and income affect whether individuals tend to vote for the Democratic or Republican party. Income also had a significant impact on health as those with higher incomes had better access to health care facilities, higher life expectancy, lower infant mortality rate and increased health consciousness. This is particularly noticeable with black voters who are often socially conservative, yet overwhelmingly vote Democratic.\n\nIn the United States occupation is one of the prime factors of social class and is closely linked to an individual's identity. The average work week in the U.S. for those employed full-time was 42.9 hours long with 30% of the population working more than 40 hours a week. The Average American worker earned $16.64 an hour in the first two quarters of 2006. Overall Americans worked more than their counterparts in other developed post-industrial nations. While the average worker in Denmark enjoyed 30 days of vacation annually, the average American had 16 annual vacation days.\n\nIn 2000 the average American worked 1,978 hours per year, 500 hours more than the average German, yet 100 hours less than the average Czech. Overall the U.S. labor force is one of the most productive in the world, largely due to its workers working more than those in any other post-industrial country (excluding South Korea). Americans generally hold working and being productive in high regard; being busy and working extensively may also serve as the means to obtain esteem.\n\nRace in the United States is based on physical characteristics & skin color and has played an essential part in shaping American society even before the nation's conception. Until the civil rights movement of the 1960s, racial minorities in the United States faced institutionalized discrimination and both social and economic marginalization. Today the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of the Census recognizes four races, Native American or American Indian, African American, Asian and White (European American). According to the U.S. government, Hispanic Americans do not constitute a race, but rather an ethnic group. During the 2000 U.S. Census, Whites made up 75.1% of the population; those who are Hispanic or Latino constituted the nation's prevalent minority with 12.5% of the population. African Americans made up 12.3% of the total population, 3.6% were Asian American and 0.7% were Native American.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution—ratified on Dec 6, 1865—abolished slavery in the United States. The northern states had outlawed slavery in their territory in the late-eighteenth and early-nineteenth century, though their industrial economies relied on raw materials produced by slaves. Following the Reconstruction period in the 1870s, racist legislation emerged in the Southern states named the Jim Crow laws that provided for legal segregation. Lynching was practiced throughout the U.S., including in the Northern states, until the 1930s, while continuing well into the civil rights movement in the South.\n\nChinese Americans were earlier marginalized as well during a significant proportion of U.S. history. Between 1882-1943 the United States instituted the Chinese Exclusion Act barring all Chinese immigrants from entering the United States. During the Second World War, roughly 120,000 Japanese Americans, 62% of whom were U.S. citizens, were imprisoned in Japanese internment camps by the U.S. government following the attacks on Pearl Harbor, an American military base, by Japanese troops.\nDue to exclusion from or marginalization by earlier mainstream society, there emerged a unique subculture among the racial minorities in the United States. During the 1920s, Harlem, New York became home to the Harlem Renaissance. Music styles such as jazz, blues, rap, rock and roll, and numerous folk-songs such as Blue Tail Fly (Jimmy Crack Corn) originated within the realms of African-American culture, and were later adopted by the mainstream. Chinatowns can be found in many cities across the country and Asian cuisine has become a common staple in mainstream America. The Hispanic community has also had a dramatic impact on American culture. Today, Catholics are the largest religious denomination in the United States and outnumber Protestants in the Southwest and California. Mariachi music and Mexican cuisine are commonly found throughout the Southwest, and some Latin dishes, such as burritos and tacos, are found practically everywhere in the nation.\nEconomic variance and substantive segregation, is commonplace in the United States. Asian Americans have median household income and educational attainment exceeding that of other races. African Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans have considerably lower income and education than do White Americans or Asian Americans. In 2005, the median household income of Whites was 62.5% higher than that of African Americans, nearly one-quarter of whom live below the poverty line. 46.9% of homicide victims in the United States are African-American.\n\nAfter the attacks by Muslim terrorists on September 11, 2001, discrimination against Arabs and Muslims in the U.S. rose significantly. The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) reported an increase in hate speech, cases of airline discrimination, hate crimes, police misconduct, and racial profiling.\n\nIt is customary for Americans to hold a wake in a funeral home within a couple days of the death of a loved one. The body of the deceased may be embalmed and dressed in fine clothing if there will be an open-casket viewing. Traditional Jewish and Muslim practice include a ritual bath and no embalming. Friends, relatives and acquaintances gather, often from distant parts of the country, to \"pay their last respects\" to the deceased. Flowers are brought to the coffin and sometimes eulogies, elegies, personal anecdotes or group prayers are recited. Otherwise, the attendees sit, stand or kneel in quiet contemplation or prayer. Kissing the corpse on the forehead is typical among Italian Americans and others. Condolences are also offered to the widow or widower and other close relatives.\n\nA funeral may be held immediately afterwards or the next day. The funeral ceremony varies according to religion and culture. American Catholics typically hold a funeral mass in a church, which sometimes takes the form of a Requiem mass. Jewish Americans may hold a service in a synagogue or temple. Pallbearers carry the coffin of the deceased to the hearse, which then proceeds in a procession to the place of final repose, usually a cemetery. The unique Jazz funeral of New Orleans features joyous and raucous music and dancing during the procession.\n\nMount Auburn Cemetery (founded in 1831) is known as \"America's first garden cemetery.\" American cemeteries created since are distinctive for their park-like setting. Rows of graves are covered by lawns and are interspersed with trees and flowers. Headstones, mausoleums, statuary or simple plaques typically mark off the individual graves. Cremation is another common practice in the United States, though it is frowned upon by various religions. The ashes of the deceased are usually placed in an urn, which may be kept in a private house, or they are interred. Sometimes the ashes are released into the atmosphere. The \"sprinkling\" or \"scattering\" of the ashes may be part of an informal ceremony, often taking place at a scenic natural feature (a cliff, lake or mountain) that was favored by the deceased.\n\nA so-called death industry has developed in the United States that has replaced earlier, more informal traditions. Before the popularity of funeral homes, people usually held wakes in the parlour rooms of private houses.\n\nMarriage laws are established by individual states. The typical wedding involves a couple proclaiming their commitment to one another in front of their close relatives and friends, often presided over by a religious figure such as a minister, priest, or rabbi, depending upon the faith of the couple. In traditional Christian ceremonies, the bride's father will \"give away\" (hand off) the bride to the groom. Secular weddings are also common, often presided over by a judge, Justice of the Peace, or other municipal official. Same-sex marriage is legal in all states. Polygamy is universally banned.\n\nDivorce is the province of state governments, so divorce law varies from state to state. Prior to the 1970s, divorcing spouses had to allege that the other spouse was guilty of a crime or sin like abandonment or adultery; when spouses simply could not get along, lawyers were forced to manufacture \"uncontested\" divorces. The no-fault divorce revolution began in 1969 in California; New York and South Dakota were the last states to begin allowing no-fault divorce. No-fault divorce on the grounds of \"irreconcilable differences\" is now available in all states. However, many states have recently required separation periods prior to a formal divorce decree.\n\nState law provides for child support where children are involved, and sometimes for alimony. \"Married adults now divorce two-and-a-half times as often as adults did 20 years ago and four times as often as they did 50 years ago... between 40% and 60% of \"new\" marriages will eventually end in divorce. The probability within... the first five years is 20%, and the probability of its ending within the first 10 years is 33%... Perhaps 25% of children ages 16 and under live with a stepparent.\" The median length for a marriage in the U.S. today is 11 years with 90% of all divorces being settled out of court.\n\nWhite Americans (non-Hispanic/Latino and Hispanic/Latino) are the racial majority and have a 72% share of the U.S. population, according to the 2010 US Census. Hispanic and Latino Americans comprise 15% of the population, making up the largest ethnic minority. Black Americans are the largest racial minority, comprising nearly 13% of the population. The White, non-Hispanic or Latino population comprises 63% of the nation's total.\n\nThroughout most of the country's history following independence from Great Britain, the majority race in the United States has been Caucasian, and the largest racial minority has been African-Americans. This relationship has historically been the most important one since the founding of the United States. Currently, most African-Americans are descendants of African slaves imported to the United States, though some are more recent immigrants or their descendants. Slavery existed in the United States at the time of the country's formation in the 1770s. The U.S. banned importation of slaves in 1808. Slavery was partially abolished by the Emancipation Proclamation issued by president Abraham Lincoln in 1862 for slaves in the Southeastern United States during the Civil War. Slavery was rendered illegal by the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Jim Crow Laws prevented full use of African American citizenship until the 20th century. The Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 outlawed official or legal segregation in public places or limited access to minorities.\n\nRelations between white Americans and other racial or ethnic groups have been a source of tension at various times in U.S. history. With the advent of European colonization, and continuing into the early years of the republic, relations between whites and Native American was a significant issue. In 1882, in response to Chinese immigration due to the Gold Rush and the labor needed for the Transcontinental Railroad, the U.S. signed into law the Chinese Exclusion Act which banned immigration by Chinese people into the U.S. In the late 19th century, the growth of the Hispanic population in the U.S., fueled largely by Mexican immigration, generated debate over policies such as English as the official language and reform to immigration policies.\n\nA huge majority of Americans of all races disapprove of racism. Nevertheless, some Americans continue to hold negative racial/ethnic stereotypes about various racial and ethnic groups. Professor Imani Perry, of Princeton University, has argued that contemporary racism in the United States \"is frequently unintentional or unacknowledged on the part of the actor\", believing that racism mostly stems unconsciously from below the level of cognition.\n\nAmerican attitudes towards drugs and alcoholic beverages have evolved considerably throughout the country's history. In the 19th century, alcohol was readily available and consumed, and no laws restricted the use of other drugs. Attitudes on drug addiction started to change, resulting in the Harrison Act, which eventually became proscriptive.\n\nA movement to ban alcoholic beverages, called the Temperance movement, emerged in the late 19th century. Several American Protestant religious groups and women's groups, such as the Women's Christian Temperance Union, supported the movement. In 1919, Prohibitionists succeeded in amending the Constitution to prohibit the sale of alcohol. Although the Prohibition period did result in lowering alcohol consumption overall, banning alcohol outright proved to be unworkable, as the previously legitimate distillery industry was replaced by criminal gangs that trafficked in alcohol. Prohibition was repealed in 1933. States and localities retained the right to remain \"dry\", and to this day, a handful still do.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War era, attitudes swung well away from prohibition. Commentators noted that an 18-year-old could be drafted to war but could not buy a beer.\n\nSince 1980, the trend has been toward greater restrictions on alcohol and drug use. The focus this time, however, has been to criminalize behaviors associated with alcohol, rather than attempt to prohibit consumption outright. New York was the first state to enact tough drunk-driving laws in 1980; since then all other states have followed suit. All states have also banned the purchase of alcoholic beverages by individuals under 21.\n\nA \"Just Say No to Drugs\" movement replaced the more liberal ethos of the 1960s. This led to stricter drug laws and greater police latitude in drug cases. Drugs are, however, widely available, and 16% of Americans 12 and older used an illicit drug in 2012.\n\nSince the 1990s, marijuana use has become increasingly tolerated in America, and a number of states allow the use of marijuana for medical purposes. In most states marijuana is still illegal without medical prescription. Since the 2012 general election, voters in the District of Columbia and the states of Alaska, California, Colorado, Maine, Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington approved the legalization of marijuana for recreational use. Marijuana is classified as illegal under federal law.\n\nDe Tocqueville first noted, in 1835, the American attitude towards helping others in need. A 2011 Charities Aid Foundation study found that Americans were the first most willing to help a stranger and donate time and money in the world at 60%. Many low-level crimes are punished by assigning hours of \"community service\", a requirement that the offender perform volunteer work; some high schools also require community service to graduate. Since US citizens are required to attend jury duty, they can be jurors in legal proceedings.\n\nFrom the time of its inception the military played a decisive role in the history of the United States. A sense of national unity and identity was forged out of the victorious First Barbary War, Second Barbary War, and the War of 1812. Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the outbreak of World War II did a large standing army become officially established. The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the onset of the Cold War, created the modern U.S. military framework; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment (renamed the Department of Defense in 1949), headed by the Secretary of Defense; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.\n\nThe U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in terms of number of personnel. It draws its manpower from a large pool of paid volunteers; although conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972. As of 2011, the United States spends about $550 billion annually to fund its military forces, and appropriates approximately $160 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations. Put together, the United States constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world's military expenditures. The U.S. armed forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and powerful equipment, along with widespread placement of forces around the world, giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection.\n\nThere is and has been a strong military culture among those on active duty, those in the Reserve and National Guard, those retired from the military, and honorably discharged veterans who never served long enough on active duty and/or in the Reserve or National Guard to qualify for military retirement pay and benefits.\n\nIn sharp contrast to most other developed nations, firearms laws in the United States are permissive and private gun ownership is common; almost half of American households contain at least one firearm. In fact, there are more privately owned firearms in the United States than in any other country, both \"per capita\" and in total. Just as freedom of religion is considered to be guaranteed by the First Amendment, considerable freedom to possess firearms is often considered by the people and the courts to be guaranteed by the Second Amendment.\n\nCivilians in the United States possess about 42% of the global inventory of privately owned firearms. Rates of gun ownership vary significantly by region and by state; gun ownership is most common in Alaska, the Mountain States, and the South, and least prevalent in Hawaii, the island territories, California, and the Northeast megalopolis. Gun ownership tends to be more common in rural than in urban areas.\n\nHunting, plinking and target shooting are popular pastimes, although ownership of firearms for purely utilitarian purposes such as personal protection is common as well. In fact, personal protection was the most common reason given for gun ownership in a 2013 Gallup poll of gun owners, at 60%. Ownership of handguns, while not uncommon, is less common than ownership of long guns. Gun ownership is considerably more prevalent among men than among women; men are approximately four times more likely than women to report owning guns.\n\nIn the federal government of the United States, responsibilities that are usually in a cultural minister's portfolio elsewhere are divided among the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities, the Federal Communications Commission, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the U.S. Department of State, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the National Endowment for the Arts, the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institution, and the National Gallery of Art. However, many state and city governments have a department dedicated to cultural affairs.\n\nThe Hollywood cinema industry has been very influential on American culture, and to some extent in global culture through transmission of American movies overseas and as other film cultures like Bollywood have striven to emulate the American model.\n\nThe United States has influenced the cultures of many other countries, but as countries around the world become more inter-connected and inter-dependent, the general cultural trends (of the US and other countries) head towards multiculturalism and sociocultural globalization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1323462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323462", "title": "Cutup", "text": "Cutup\n\nCutup is a group of London-based artists, whose work mainly revolves around the manipulation of billboard advertisements. Their first works consisted of removing a billboard, painstakingly cutting it up into roughly 4000 small rectangles, each one in essence a pixel, and then reassembling the billboard.\n\nMore recently, Cutup have started other projects, such as replacing small bus-shelter advertisements with a drilled sheet of wood. The illuminating back lights that turn on at dusk reveal an image, as the many holes light up against the dark background.\n\nAlthough they mainly deal with art on the street, the group have also created installations, including setting 96 different alarm clocks one a minute apart and sound installations, made up of 94 speakers, mini disks and circuit boards.\n\nCutup have held shows in London, New York and Barcelona, including two shows at London's Seventeen Gallery, including a recent show which exhibited a full size billboard and a bus shelter, brought inside especially for the show, as well as related video and film pieces.\n\nOther shows have included \"La Vida Te Espera\" at NIU Gallery, Barcelona in June 2006, \"Satellites\", at Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, New York and a show at the Kemistry Gallery in Shoreditch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2897552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2897552", "title": "Dastur al-Muluk", "text": "Dastur al-Muluk\n\nDastūr al-Mulūk () is one of only three surviving administrative handbooks from early 18th-century Safavid Iran and an important research tool for scholars in Iranology. The Persian manuscript was edited during the 1960s by the Iranian scholar Mohammad Taqi Danesh Pajouh.\n\nA Russian translation by Dr Vil'danova appeared in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, in the 1990s. In 2002, an annotated English translation (), which contains also a facsimile of what was then thought among scholars to be the complete manuscript, was published and translated into English for the first time by the German scholar , based on his dissertation. \n\nAlready in 2000, this dissertation was awarded by then Iranian President Mohammad Khatami the First Prize for Best Research on Iranian Culture Award for the Year 2000 (International Category) by the Iranian Ministry of Culture. A Persian translation of Marcinkowski's 2002 study by Ali Kordabadi and Mansur Sefatgol appeared in 1385 AH solar (2006 CE) in Tehran at Markaz-e Asnad va Tarikh-e Diplomasi (published by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs). \n\nSubsequently, the Iranian scholar Iraj Afshar discovered and edited the remainder of the manuscript. This part, too, was translated into English and discussed by Dr. Marcinkowski in the \"Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenländischen Gesellschaft\", the journal of the German Oriental Society (see below).\n\n"}
{"id": "47252513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47252513", "title": "Demirköy Foundry", "text": "Demirköy Foundry\n\nThe Demirköy Foundry () is a historic foundry ruin of archaeological importance located at Demirköy in Kırklareli Province, northwestern Turkey.\n\nThe archaeological site is situated southeast of the district seat Demirköy. An iron metalworking center was established at this location in the 15th century during the Ottoman Empire due to the rich iron ore deposits in the region. The site is deep in the Strandzha forests, about far from the Black Sea coast and to the Bulgarian-Turkish border.\n\nIt is known that the cannonballs fired during the conquest of Constantinople in 1453 by Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II (Fatih Sultan Mehmet, Mehmed the Conqueror) were manufactured here. The facility is also called today by the local people as Fatih Foundry (the \"Conqueror's Foundry\"). Demirköy means literally \"Ironville\". Iron casting continued in the foundry from the mid-15th century until the late 19th century. It appears that the foundry underwent a thoroughgoing renovation during the Mahmud II (1808–1839) period. The foundry was then subordinated to the administration of Imperial Cannon Factory (Tophane-i Amire) in Istanbul, which was established in 1839. According to the Ottoman documents, its historic name was \"Samakocuk Dökümhane-i Amiresi\" (literally: Samakocuk İmperial Foundry).\n\nAccording to a 1923-published report of the government doctor in Kırklareli, the foundry was destroyed by the invading Russian troops during the Russo-Turkish War (1877–78). In 1913, the state-owned foundry was leased to a British company for a period of 99 years, but in 1916 the lease was annulled due to the circumstances of World War I. After World War I, the foundry was abandoned; its structure, however, remained intact until the 1950s. The metal parts of the foundry were sold to scrappers by the National Estate Authority () in 1947.\n\nThe Kırklareli Museum identified and registered the remains of the Ottoman foundry as an archaeological conservation area in September 1991. In May 2002, a research project was initiated on the iron mining and metalworking in the area. Archival investigations, surface surveys and archaeological excavations at the partly preserved site, which covers a total area of , began in the summer of 2003.\n\nImportant finds of industrial archaeology, unearthed in 2005 at a site far from the original site, revealed the existence of another metalworking workshop with two melting furnaces. The workshop was in dimension and consisted of two sections with a central entrance. While the eastern wing furnace was identified as a blast furnace for iron production showing advanced technology of the 17th century, the west-wing furnace was used for copper smelting. According to 19th-century Ottoman documents, copper production was the second major activity following iron metalworking in the foundries of Demirköy-Samakocuk. Copper was used for copper alloy to make molds for casting cannonballs.\nThe units of the main foundry complex, which was built in a square-plan on a hillside, are situated on two ground levels of difference in elevation. The upper section was fortified by -thick and -high surrounding stone walls with polygon-formed bastions on the corners. The main gate in the north opened to the courtyard at this upper terrace, which contains living and service spaces, a partly-preserved Ottoman hammam and a mosque. The quarters of the foundry workers for living and sleeping were placed along the walls in the north, west and east. In the southwest of the courtyard, the basement walls of the foundry mosque is situated with a brick minaret erected on stone base next to it.\n\nFoundry's production units were on the lower-level terrace south of the fortified courtyard. During the excavations in 2008, an iron workshop with two melting furnaces was unearthed southeast of the courtyard. While the archaeological excavations in the upper ground level are completed, research in the lower ground level is ongoing.\n\nIn order to achieve high temperature needed in the melting fırnaces, bellows were utilized, which were worked up by a water wheel. It is believed that the power was transmitted from the water wheel to the bellows by a horizontal shaft. An open-deck canal northeast of the foundry provided water supply from a creek. The canal reaches the iron-made water wheel in the lower ground level after entering the facility under the eastern fortification wall in a brick vault-like tunnel, and running southwards under the courtyard. This main canal has branches within the facility, and serves also the workshop far outside. During the excavations, iron parts and one of the bases belonging to the water wheel were found.\n\nArchaeologists discovered around the foundry the existence of a historic underground mine adit and metallurgy pits beside ruins of melting furnaces, slag heap deposits and charcoal piles. Scientific research revealed that processing of cast iron and ferroalloy was done here.\n\nUnearthed archaeological artifacts include molds for round shot, cannonballs of various size, nails of various length, iron powder, ashes, furnace blowpipes, samples of domestic and imported fire bricks, parts of agricultural equipment, porcelain kitchenware and household tools manufactured in later years.\n\nAccording to Ottoman documents of the 18th and 19th century, the semi-finished products of the foundry were sent to \"Tophane-i Amire\" (Imperial Cannon Factory) and \"Tersane-i Amire\" (Imperial Shipyard) in Istanbul from the port of İğneada on the Black Sea coast.\n\nIt is projected that the foundry will be transformed into an open-air museum for industrial archaeology after completion of the archaeological works, currently carried out by 35 archaeologists from several Turkish universities under the supervision of Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University. The foundry moaque building will be redeveloped as an industry museum for traditional iron production techniques.\n"}
{"id": "22760833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22760833", "title": "Discourse relation", "text": "Discourse relation\n\nA discourse relation (or rhetorical relation) is a description of how two segments of discourse are logically connected to one another.\n\nOne method of modeling discourse involves a set of concepts that constitute \"segmented discourse representation theory\" (SDRT).\n\nAsher and Lascarides categorize the discourse relations formalized in SDRT into five classes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55409342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55409342", "title": "Father-Daughter Day", "text": "Father-Daughter Day\n\nFather-Daughter Day (sometimes called National Father-Daughter Day) is a holiday recognized annually on the second Sunday of October in the United States, honoring the relationship between a father and a daughter. Unlike Mother's Day and Father's Day, it is not federally recognized.\nThe U.S. holiday was originally conceived by Smokey Robinson to honor his relationship with his six daughters. In human development the relationship between fathers and sons overshadows the bond with daughters. This holiday promotes the development of young women through their father.\nRobinson stated: “There are many different kinds of families today, and we know that all parental relationships are important to the healthy development of children, but the father/daughter bond is unique and one that is near to my heart. The father/daughter relationship shapes a young woman’s perspective of men and what to expect from them. I believe that female empowerment begins in the home and fathers must set a healthy example through their personal actions and interactions.”\n\nExamples of commemoration during Father-Daughter Day can be both commercial or intangible. Nonmaterial examples of observances during this day include embracing one another with hugs, spending quality time together, and honoring their presence in your life.\n\nIn September 2017, Rockabye Baby! Music released a lullaby version of Smokey Robinson's \"My Girl\" to support the holiday. In October 2017, greeting card company American Greetings announced their plan to release a line of eCards with Smokey Robinson to celebrate the launch of Father-Daughter Day.\n\nFifteen million U.S. children live without a father. While father absence mainly results from parental divorce and separation, other factors such as family poverty, developmental difficulties have been associated with father absence, the effects of which have been explained by various theoretical approaches. Fathers are traditionally deemed a provider of protection and support for the child's development. Early maturing girls have been found to be at risk for teenage pregnancy, drinking and weight problems, and giving birth to low birth weight infants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1326566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326566", "title": "Feminist archaeology", "text": "Feminist archaeology\n\nFeminist archaeology employs a feminist perspective in interpreting past societies. It often focuses on gender, but also considers gender in tandem with other factors, such as sexuality, race, or class. Feminist archaeology has critiqued the uncritical application of modern, Western norms and values to past societies. It is additionally concerned with switching a perceived androcentric bias in the structuring disciplinary norms of archaeology with a gynocentric bias within the profession.\n\nFeminist archaeology initially emerged in the late 1970s and early 80s, along with other objections to the epistemology espoused by the processual school of archaeological thought, such as symbolic and hermeneutic archaeologies. Margaret Conkey and Janet Spector’s 1984 paper \"Archaeology and the Study of Gender\" summed up the feminist critique of the discipline at that time: that archaeologists were unproblematically overlaying modern-day, Western gender norms onto past societies, for example in the sexual division of labor; that contexts and artifacts attributed to the activities of men, such as projectile point production and butchering at kill sites, were prioritized in research time and funding; and that the very character of the discipline was constructed around masculine values and norms. For example, women were generally encouraged to pursue laboratory studies instead of fieldwork (although there were exceptions throughout the history of the discipline) and the image of the archaeologist was centered on the rugged, masculine, “cowboy of science”. In 1991, two publications marked the emergence of feminist archaeology on a large scale: the edited volume \"Engendering Archaeology\", which focused on women in prehistory, and a thematic issue of the journal \"Historical Archaeology\", which focused on women and gender in post-Columbian America. Outside the Americas, feminist archaeology enjoyed an earlier emergence and greater support among the greater archaeological community.\n\nNotable challenges raised by early feminist archaeologists have concerned hunting and stone tool-making, among many other topics. The Man the Hunter paradigm in anthropology, named after a symposium given in the 1960s by some of the most prominent names in archaeology, bifurcated the hominid sexual division of labor along male and female sexes. Males were in charge of hunting, and presumably through this activity developed important evolutionary traits, such as increased brain size. Meanwhile, females stayed at home and raised the young. An assumption behind this model is that women were constrained from certain activities due to decreased mobility resulting from pregnancy and their role in raising young children. This model has been critiqued by feminist anthropologists, as underplaying the evolutionary importance of women in favor of portraying them strictly as passive objects of reproduction and nothing more. Adrienne Zihlman, tracing the evolutionary achievements ascribed to males as hunters, pointed out that female gathering activities could just as easily account for such adaptations.\n\nJoan Gero challenged androcentric explanations of tool-making on several levels. First, the common assumption that tool-making was almost exclusively associated with men was almost certainly false; at the least, women were far more likely to produce their own tools as needed in domestic contexts rather than wait for a man to come along and do it for them. The argument behind this assumption, that men possess greater upper-body strength, was dismissed by Gero, who pointed out physical strength is not an imperative quality in someone skilled at making stone tools. Additionally, Gero pointed out the great emphasis in research time and money towards studies concerned with the most “masculine” of stone tools, such as projectile points, while stone tools likely made and used by women, for example utilized flakes, have been relatively ignored.\n\nSince the early feminist critiques of archaeology, gender has gained enormous popularity within the discipline. The label “feminist” has not been embraced by most archaeologists, however. A split between gender and feminist archaeologies formed during the 1990s. Gender archaeology has become a wide umbrella, including, but not limited to, feminist work that employs queer theory, practice theory, and performance theory, among others. Many archaeologists engaged in gender research avoid the label of “feminist,” largely due to the perceived negative connotations of the word. Others within the discipline have an oversimplified understanding of feminist archaeology's history and aims, and as a consequence mistakenly conflate it with postmodernism. Some archaeologists have argued against the continued incorporation of feminist thought, which is inherently political, into archaeological studies of gender. Few works in gender archaeology have actively engaged in challenging patriarchal power structures beyond rectifying androcentric histories. Feminist archaeology engages in challenging and changing interpretive frameworks employed by archaeologists: “Feminism is a politics aimed at changing gender-based power relations.” Noted feminist philosopher Alison Wylie delineates several guidelines imperative for conducting feminist archaeology:\n\n\nIn contrast, gender archaeology not employed by feminists lacks such characteristics. Gender is currently a common topic of study in archaeology among non-feminists. Such studies focus on identifying gendered activities and material culture and on the gender roles of past peoples, but do not present themselves in an overtly political way. Non-feminist archaeologists are less compelled to position themselves within their work, or reflect on how their position affects their work. Investigating gender independent of feminism, however, elides the aims of early studies and represents gender and sex in a conceptually deficient manner.\n\nFeminist archaeologists continue to challenge archaeological norms and expand research into new intellectual territories. They argue for the incorporation of alternative forms of knowledge and representation; for example, black and Indigenous epistemologies have been employed by feminist archaeologists. There continues to be a feminist critique of the masculine character and organization of archaeology.\n\nOne important realm of research for feminist archaeologists, along with some non-feminists, is de-centering Westernized forms of history in favor of privileging alternative conceptions and interpretations of the past, and exploring non-traditional ways of conveying knowledge. A growing body of work involves involvement with descendant communities, giving them a voice in archaeological investigations and interpretations of the past. The public demand for allowing descendant communities a voice in the African Burial Ground controversy highlighted the importance of this kind of work. Parallels have been drawn between feminist archaeology and Indigenous archaeology, focusing on how both work to break down the male, white, middle-class, Western monopoly to accessing knowledge about the past. This type of work helps to de-center the privileged position of Western knowledge without removing its relevance.\n\nAdditionally, feminist archaeologists have engaged in the use of fiction to help access the past. This has taken the form of plays, as seen in \"Red-Light Voices\", based on letters and diaries by early 20th-century prostitutes to explore prostitution. Another example is seen in Laurie Wilkie’s fictional worker involved in the Federal Writers' Project, interjected in her archaeological study of an African-American midwife in the post-emancipation South. Janet D. Spector interpreted the meaning behind a single artifact through a fictional narrative in \"What This Awl Means\". Narrative has been argued as an effective means by which archaeologists can create multivocal and more broadly accessible interpretations and presentations. The use of storytelling “demonstrate[s] \nhow narrative is a powerful tool for bringing texture, nuance, and humanity to women’s experiences as evidenced through archaeology”).\n\nA common analytical technique employed by feminist (and some non-feminist) archaeologists is intersectional analysis, which, following the assertions of black feminists leading third-wave feminism in the U.S., maintains that gender cannot be accessed by itself but must be studied in conjunction with other forms of identity. In historical archaeology the linkage between gender, race, and class has been increasingly explored, but other aspects of identity, notably sexuality, have been examined as well in relation to gender. Intersectional analysis has not been limited to feminist archaeology, as illustrated by the prevalent use of gender-race-class as a means of exploring identity by historical archaeologists. Although many such studies have focused on white, middle-class women of the recent Anglo-American past, the articulation of gender with other aspects of identity is starting to be applied to Native American women and African Americans. The work of Kathleen Deagan on Spanish colonial sites in the US and Caribbean has pioneered a movement of study of gender in the Spanish colonies. The use of black feminist work, which calls to attention the inherent connectivity between gender and class in the U.S. has been an important step in advancing the use of intersectional analysis in archaeology. The intersectional approach faced a lot of “oppositional consciousness” that intervened in the flow of hegemonic feminist theory” and challenges in crossing the boundaries and negotiating with the terms of belonging in the community.\n\nArchaeological studies of domestic sites have been particularly affected by ongoing feminist work. The long-standing trend in archaeology to associate women with domestic spaces, placed in opposition to the association with men and “public” spaces, has been a continuous locus of feminist research. Since the advent of the new millennium, there has been a shift away from such dichotomized spatial separation of gender. In historical archaeology, feminist archaeologists have been crucial to widening the definition of what constitutes a household from a familial model based on Western norms, such as household archaeology projects studying brothels and fraternities. By engaging with broader household literature, \narchaeologists have begun to re-conceive household, long considered autonomous analytical units, as political spaces, occupied by social actors occupying different social positions shaped by gender, race, age, occupation, socioeconomic status, and so on.\n\nFeminist concern has been primarily with women; however, emerging concern with the exploration and intricacies of masculinities in archaeology is rising. Masculine identity constructs and social reproduction of normative masculinity are some of the topics that have been addressed by a limited number of archaeologists. This area of study in general, however, remains relatively unexplored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "448560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448560", "title": "Georgian scripts", "text": "Georgian scripts\n\nThe Georgian scripts are the three writing systems used to write the Georgian language: Asomtavruli, Nuskhuri and Mkhedruli. Although the systems differ in appearance, all three are unicase, their letters share the same names and alphabetical order, and are written horizontally from left to right. Of the three scripts, Mkhedruli, once the civilian royal script of the Kingdom of Georgia and mostly used for the royal charters, is now the standard script for modern Georgian and its related Kartvelian languages, whereas Asomtavruli and Nuskhuri are used only by the Georgian Orthodox Church, in ceremonial religious texts and iconography.\n\nGeorgian scripts are unique in their appearance and their exact origin has never been established; however, in strictly structural terms, their alphabetical order largely corresponds to the Greek alphabet, with the exception of letters denoting uniquely Georgian sounds, which are grouped at the end. Originally consisting of 38 letters, Georgian is presently written in a 33-letter alphabet, as five letters are currently obsolete in that language. The number of Georgian letters used in other Kartvelian languages varies. Mingrelian uses 36: 33 that are current Georgian letters, one obsolete Georgian letter, and two additional letters specific to Mingrelian and Svan. Laz uses the same 33 current Georgian letters as Mingrelian plus that same obsolete letter and a letter borrowed from Greek for a total of 35. The fourth Kartvelian language, Svan, is not commonly written, but when it is, it uses Georgian letters as utilized in Mingrelian, with an additional obsolete Georgian letter and sometimes supplemented by diacritics for its many vowels.\n\nGeorgian scripts were granted the national status of intangible cultural heritage in Georgia in 2015 and inscribed on the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2016.\n\nThe origin of the Georgian script is poorly known, and no full agreement exists among Georgian and foreign scholars as to its date of creation, who designed the script, and the main influences on that process.\n\nThe first version of the script attested is \"Asomtavruli\" which dates back at least to the 5th century; the other scripts were formed in the following centuries. Most scholars link the creation of the Georgian script to the process of Christianization of Iberia (not to be confused with the Iberian Peninsula), a core Georgian kingdom of Kartli. The alphabet was therefore most probably created between the conversion of Iberia under King Mirian III (326 or 337) and the Bir el Qutt inscriptions of 430, contemporaneously with the Armenian alphabet. It was first used for translation of the Bible and other Christian literature into Georgian, by monks in Georgia and Palestine. Professor Levan Chilashvili's dating of fragmented \"Asomtavruli\" inscriptions, discovered by him at the ruined town of Nekresi, in Georgia's easternmost province of Kakheti, in the 1980s, to the 1st or 2nd century has not been accepted.\n\nA Georgian tradition first attested in the medieval chronicle \"Lives of the Kings of Kartli\" (ca. 800), assigns a much earlier, pre-Christian origin to the Georgian alphabet, and names King Pharnavaz I (3rd century BC) as its inventor. This account is now considered legendary, and is rejected by scholarly consensus, as no archaeological confirmation has been found. Rapp considers the tradition to be an attempt by the Georgian Church to rebut the earlier tradition that the alphabet was invented by the Armenian scholar Mesrop Mashtots, and is a Georgian application of an Iranian model in which primordial kings are credited with the creation of basic social institutions. Georgian linguist Tamaz Gamkrelidze offers an alternate interpretation of the tradition, in the pre-Christian use of foreign scripts (alloglottography in the Aramaic alphabet) to write down Georgian texts.\n\nAnother point of contention among scholars is the role played by Armenian clerics in that process. According to a number of scholars and medieval Armenian sources, Mesrop Mashtots, generally acknowledged as the creator of the Armenian alphabet, also created the Georgian and Caucasian Albanian alphabets. This tradition originates in the works of Koryun, a fifth-century historian and biographer of Mashtots, and has been quoted by Donald Rayfield and James R. Russell, but has been criticized by scholars, both Georgian and Western, who judge the passage in Koryun unreliable or even a later interpolation. Other scholars quote Koryun's claims without taking a stance on its validity. Many agree, however, that Armenian clerics, if not Mashtots himself, must have played a role in the creation of the Georgian script.\n\nAnother controversy regards the main influences at play in the Georgian alphabet, as scholars have debated whether it was inspired more by the Greek alphabet, or by Semitic alphabets such as Aramaic. Recent historiography focuses on greater similarities with the Greek alphabet than in the other Caucasian writing systems, most notably the order and numeric value of letters. Some scholars have also suggested certain pre-Christian Georgian cultural symbols or clan markers as a possible inspiration for particular letters.\n\nAsomtavruli (; ) is the oldest Georgian script. The name \"Asomtavruli\" means \"capital letters\", from \"aso\" (ასო) \"letter\" and \"mtavari\" (მთავარი) \"principal/head\". It is also known as Mrgvlovani () \"rounded\", from \"mrgvali\" (მრგვალი) \"round\", so named because of its round letter shapes. Despite its name, this \"capital\" script is unicameral, just like the modern Georgian script, Mkhedruli.\n\nThe oldest Asomtavruli inscriptions found so far date from the 5th century and are Bir el Qutt and the Bolnisi inscriptions.\n\nFrom the 9th century, Nuskhuri script starting becoming dominant, and the role of Asomtavruli was reduced. However, epigraphic monuments of the 10th to 18th centuries continued to be written in Asomtavruli script. Asomtavruli in this later period became more decorative. In the majority of 9th-century Georgian manuscripts which were written in Nuskhuri script, Asomtavruli was used for titles and the first letters of chapters. Although, some manuscripts written completely in Asomtavruli can be found until the 11th century.\n\nIn early Asomtavruli, the letters are of equal height. Georgian historian and philologist Pavle Ingorokva believes that the direction of Asomtavruli, like that of Greek, was initially boustrophedon, though the direction of the earliest surviving texts is from left to the right.\n\nIn most Asomtavruli letters, straight lines are horizontal or vertical and meet at right angles. The only letter with acute angles is (ჯ \"jani\"). There have been various attempts to explain this exception. Georgian linguist and art historian Helen Machavariani believes \"jani\" derives from a monogram of Christ, composed of the (ი \"ini\") and (ქ \"kani\"). According to Georgian scholar Ramaz Pataridze, the cross-like shape of letter \"jani\" indicates the end of the alphabet, and has the same function as the similarly shaped Phoenician letter taw (), Greek chi (Χ), and Latin X, though these letters do not have that function in Phoenician, Greek, or Latin.\n\nFrom the 7th century, the forms of some letters began to change. The equal height of the letters was abandoned, with letters acquiring ascenders and descenders.\n\nIn Nuskhuri manuscripts, Asomtavruli are used for titles and illuminated capitals. The latter were used at the beginnings of paragraphs which started new sections of text. In the early stages of the development of Nuskhuri texts, Asomtavruli letters were not elaborate and were distinguished principally by size and sometimes by being written in cinnabar ink. Later, from the 10th century, the letters were illuminated. The style of Asomtavruli capitals can be used to identify the era of a text. For example, in the Georgian manuscripts of the Byzantine era, when the styles of the Byzantine Empire influenced Kingdom of Georgia, capitals were illuminated with images of birds and other animals.\n\nFrom the 11th-century \"limb-flowery\", \"limb-arrowy\" and \"limb-spotty\" decorative forms of Asomtavruli are developed. The first two are found in 11th- and 12th-century monuments, whereas the third one is used until the 18th century.\n\nImportance was attached also to the colour of the ink itself.\n\nAsomtavruli letter დ (\"doni\") is often written with decoration effects of fish and birds.\n\nThe \"Curly\" decorative form of Asomtavruli is also used where the letters are wattled or intermingled on each other, or the smaller letters are written inside other letters. It was mostly used for the headlines of the manuscripts or the books, although there are compete inscriptions which were written in the Asomtavruli \"Curly\" form only.\n\nThe following table shows the stroke order and direction of each Asomtavruli letter:\n\nNuskhuri (; ) is the second Georgian script. The name \"nuskhuri\" comes from \"nuskha\" (ნუსხა), meaning \"inventory\" or \"schedule\". Nuskhuri was soon augmented with Asomtavruli illuminated capitals in religious manuscripts. The combination is called Khutsuri (, \"clerical\", from \"khutsesi\" ( \"cleric\"), and it was principally used in hagiography.\n\nNuskhuri first appeared in the 9th century as a graphic variant of Asomtavruli. The oldest inscription is found in the Ateni Sioni Church and dates to 835 AD. The oldest surviving Nuskhuri manuscripts date to 864 AD. Nuskhuri becomes dominant over Asomtavruli from the 10th century.\n\nNuskhuri letters vary in height, with ascenders and descenders, and are slanted to the right. Letters have an angular shape, with a noticeable tendency to simplify the shapes they had in Asomtavruli. This enabled faster writing of manuscripts.\n\nThe following table shows the stroke order and direction of each Nuskhuri letter:\n\nAsomtavruli is used intensively in iconography, murals, and exterior design, especially in stone engravings. Georgian linguist Akaki Shanidze made an attempt in the 1950s to introduce Asomtavruli into the Mkhedruli script as capital letters to begin sentences, as in the Latin script, but it did not catch on. Asomtavruli and Nuskhuri are officially used by the Georgian Orthodox Church alongside Mkhedruli. Patriarch Ilia II of Georgia called on people to use all three Georgian scripts.\n\nMkhedruli (; ) is the third and current Georgian script. Mkhedruli, literally meaning \"cavalry\" or \"military\", derives from \"mkhedari\" (მხედარი) meaning \"horseman\", \"knight\", \"warrior\" and \"cavalier\".\n\nMkhedruli is bicameral, with capital letters that are called Mkhedruli Mtavruli () or simply Mtavruli (; ). Nowadays, Mtavruli is typically used in all-caps text in titles or to emphasize a word, though in the late 19th and early 20th centuries it was occasionally used, as in Latin and Cyrillic scripts, to capitalize proper nouns or the first word of a sentence.\n\nMkhedruli first appears in the 10th century. The oldest Mkhedruli inscription is found in Ateni Sioni Church dating back to 982 AD. The second oldest Mkhedruli-written text is found in the 11th-century royal charters of King Bagrat IV of Georgia. Mkhedruli was mostly used then in the Kingdom of Georgia for the royal charters, historical documents, manuscripts and inscriptions. Mkhedruli was used for non-religious purposes only and represented the \"civil\", \"royal\" and \"secular\" script.\n\nMkhedruli became more and more dominant over the two other scripts, though Khutsuri (Nuskhuri with Asomtavruli) was used until the 19th century. Mkhedruli became the universal writing Georgian system outside of the Church in the 19th century with the establishment and development of printed Georgian fonts.\n\nMkhedruli inscriptions of the 10th and 11th centuries are characterized in rounding of angular shapes of Nuskhuri letters and making the complete outlines in all of its letters. Mkhedruli letters are written in the four-linear system, similar to Nuskhuri.\nMkhedruli becomes more round and free in writing. It breaks the strict frame of the previous two alphabets, Asomtavruli and Nuskhuri. Mkhedruli letters begin to get coupled and more free calligraphy develops.\n\nThe modern Georgian alphabet consists of 33 letters:\n\nThe Society for the Spreading of Literacy among Georgians, founded by Prince Ilia Chavchavadze in 1879, discarded five letters from the Georgian alphabet that had become redundant:\n\n\nAll but ჵ (\"hoe\") continue to be used in the Svan alphabet; ჲ (\"hie\") is used in the Mingrelian and Laz alphabets as well, for the y-sound . Several others were used for Abkhaz and Ossetian in the short time they were written in Mkhedruli script.\n\nMkhedruli has been adapted to languages besides Georgian. Some of these alphabets retained letters obsolete in Georgian, while others required additional letters:\n\nThe following table shows the stroke order and direction of each Mkhedruli letter:>\n\nზ, ო, and ხ (\"zeni, oni, khani\") are almost always written without the small tick at the end, while the handwritten form of ჯ (\"jani\") often uses a vertical line, (sometimes with a taller ascender, or with a diagonal cross bar); even when it is written at a diagonal, the cross-bar is generally shorter than in print.\n\n\nThere is individual and stylistic variation in many of the letters. For example, the top circle of ზ (\"zeni\") and the top stroke of რ (\"rae\") may go in the other direction than shown in the chart (that is, counter-clockwise starting at 3 o'clock, and upwards – see the external-link section for videos of people writing).\n\nOther common variants:\n\n\nSeveral letters are similar and may be confused at first, especially in handwriting. \n\nAsomtavruli is often highly stylized and writers readily formed ligatures, intertwined letters, and placed letters within letters or other such monograms.\n\nNuskhuri, like Asomtavruli, is also often highly stylized. Writers readily formed ligatures and abbreviations for \"nomina sacra\", including diacritics called \"karagma\", which resemble \"titla\". Because writing materials such as vellum were scarce and therefore precious, abbreviating was a practical measure widespread in manuscripts and hagiography by the 11th century.\n\nMkhedruli, in the 11th to 17th centuries also came to employ digraphs to the point that they were obligatory, requiring adherence to a complex system.\n\nGeorgian scripts come in only a single type face, though word processors can apply automatic (\"fake\") oblique and bold formatting to Georgian text. Traditionally, Asomtavruli was used for chapter or section titles, where Latin script might use bold or italic type.\n\nIn Asomtavruli and Nuskhuri punctuation, various combinations of dots were used as word dividers and to separate phrases, clauses, and paragraphs. In monumental inscriptions and manuscripts of 5th to 10th centuries, these were written as dashes, like −, = and =−. In the 10th century, clusters of one (·), two (:), three (჻) and six (჻჻) dots (later sometimes small circles) were introduced by Ephrem Mtsire to indicate increasing breaks in the text. One dot indicated a \"minor stop\" (presumably a simple word break), two dots marked or separated \"special words\", three dots for a \"bigger stop\" (such as the appositive name and title \"the sovereign Alexander\", below, or the title of the Gospel of Matthew, above), and six dots were to indicate the end of the sentence. Starting in the 11th century, marks resembling the apostrophe and comma came into use. An apostrophe was used to mark an interrogative word, and a comma appeared at the end of an interrogative sentence. From the 12th century on, these were replaced with the semicolon (the Greek question mark). In the 18th century, Patriarch Anton I of Georgia reformed the system again, with commas, single dots, and double dots used to mark \"complete\", \"incomplete\", and \"final\" sentences, respectively. For the most part, Georgian today uses the punctuation as in international usage of the Latin script.\n\nThis table lists the three scripts in parallel columns, including the letters that are now obsolete in all alphabets (shown with a blue background), obsolete in Georgian but still used in other alphabets (green background), or additional letters in languages other than Georgian (pink background). The \"national\" transliteration is the system used by the Georgian government, whereas \"Laz\" is the Latin Laz alphabet used in Turkey. The table also shows the traditional numeric values of the letters.\n\n\n <br>\n\nThe first Georgian script was included in Unicode Standard in October, 1991 with the release of version 1.0. In creating the Georgian Unicode block, important roles were played by German Jost Gippert, a linguist of Kartvelian studies, and American-Irish linguist and script-encoder Michael Everson, who created the Georgian Unicode for the Macintosh systems. Significant contributions were also made by Anton Dumbadze and Irakli Garibashvili (not to be mistaken with the former Prime Minister of Georgia Irakli Garibashvili).\n\nGeorgian \"Mkhedruli\" script received an official status for being Georgia's internationalized domain name script for (.გე).\n\nMtavruli letters were added in Unicode version 11.0 in June 2018. They are capital letters with similar letterforms to Mkhedruli, but with descenders shifted above the baseline, with a wider central oval, and with the top slightly higher than the ascender height. Before this addition, font creators included Mtavruli in various ways. Some fonts came in pairs, of which one had lowercase letters and the other uppercase; some Unicode fonts placed Mtavruli letterforms in the Asomtavruli range (U+10A0-U+10CF) or in the Private Use Area, and some ASCII-based ones mapped them to the ASCII capital letters.\n\nGeorgian characters are found in three Unicode blocks. The first block (U+10A0–U+10FF) is simply called Georgian. Mkhedruli (modern Georgian) occupies the U+10D0–U+10FF range (shown in the bottom half of the first table below) and Asomtavruli occupies the U+10A0–U+10CF range (shown in the top half of the same table). The second block is the Georgian Supplement (U+2D00–U+2D2F), and it contains Nuskhuri. Mtavruli capitals are included in the Georgian Extended block (U+1C90–U+1CBF).\n\nMtavruli is defined as the upper case, but not title case, of Mkhedruli, and Asomtavruli as the upper case and title case of Nuskhuri.\n\nThere is no non-Unicode character encoding for Georgian, which prevents non-Unicode applications from being able to support the Georgian script.\n\nBelow is the standard Georgian-language keyboard layout, the traditional layout of manual typewriters.\n\nGallery of Asomtavruli, Nuskhuri and Mkhedruli scripts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9449826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9449826", "title": "Horom Citadel", "text": "Horom Citadel\n\nHorom Citadel (, also Romanized as Orom and Horrom) is an ancient Bronze Age through Urartian fortification atop two large hills south of the main road and opposite of the dam and Kamut Reservoir. It is about east of the village of Horrom in the Shirak Province of northwestern Armenia. Not far from this location in Ghak and Shvaghtapa are two Urartian cyclopean forts.\nHorom is considered to be one of the most impressive archaeological sites in Armenia because of its unique architecture. There are potsherds and obsidian flakes strewn on the surface of the ground. Recent excavations have been underway at the site recently by Armenian and American archaeologists led by Ruben Badalian and Philip Kohl. The teams have uncovered well preserved fortification walls as well as large amounts of cultural artifacts that have given insight into those who once resided at the site.\n"}
{"id": "51261471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51261471", "title": "Impact litigation", "text": "Impact litigation\n\nImpact litigation or strategic litigation is the practice of bringing lawsuits intended to effect societal change. Impact litigation cases may be class action lawsuits or individual claims with broader significance, and may rely on statutory law arguments or on constitutional claims. Such litigation has been widely and successfully used to influence public policy, especially by left-leaning groups, and often attracts significant media attention.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the American Civil Liberties Union and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (at times though its Legal Defense Fund) both pursued legal action to advance and protect civil rights in the United States. The ACLU followed a primarily \"defensive\" strategy, fighting individual violations of rights when they were identified. The NAACP, in contrast, developed a more coordinated plan to actively file suits to challenge discrimination, known as \"affirmative\" or \"strategic\" litigation. The NAACP's model became the pattern for \"impact litigation\" strategies, which applied similar tactics in contexts other than racial discrimination.\n\nImportant early impact litigation cases included \"Brown v. Board of Education\" and \"Roe v. Wade\". \"Brown\", a 1954 U.S. school desegregation decision, was carefully prepared by Thurgood Marshall and other NAACP lawyers so that the eventual Supreme Court ruling invalidated official racial discrimination throughout the U.S. government. Many cases since then have closely imitated it, in the course of seeking greater protections for other disadvantaged groups.\n\nImpact litigation has played a major role in the development of American desegregation, abortion, tobacco regulation policy and gay marriage. \n\nSince the 1980s, impact litigation has been used to seek reform in the reform of U.S. child welfare law, following earlier work which involved the courts in jail and mental hospital reforms and in school desegregation.\n\nStrategic impact litigation has also been used in Nigeria, among other things to push for convictions of perpetrators of police brutality and to defeat legal attacks on the freedom of the press.\n\nIn a few jurisdictions where attorneys are prohibited from bringing class action lawsuits, citizens have filed \"grassroots impact litigation\" cases and successfully represented their own claims.\n\nImpact litigation has been criticized by legal scholars and politicians on the bases of judicial legitimacy and competence.\n\nThe legitimacy argument holds that, in countries with a constitutional separation of powers, societal changes are to be enacted by democratically elected bodies and are outside the purview of individual judges. The competence argument claims that institutional limitations on the amount and quality of information that can be made available in a court proceeding make the courts poorly prepared to handle complex policy issues. Another version of this argument points out that courts are limited in the scope of their responses, relative to legislative bodies. These debates overlap with those concerning so-called \"judicial activism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8747963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8747963", "title": "Institutional ethnography", "text": "Institutional ethnography\n\nInstitutional ethnography (IE) is a method of social research. IE explores the social relations that structure people's everyday lives, specifically by looking at the ways that people interact with one another in the context of social institutions (school, marriage, work, for example) and understanding how those interactions are institutionalized. IE is best understood as an ethnography of interactions which have been institutionalized, rather than an ethnography of specific companies, organizations or employment sectors, which would be considered industrial sociology or the sociology of work. For the institutional ethnographer, ordinary daily activity becomes the site for an investigation of social organization. \nIE was first developed by Dorothy E. Smith as a Marxist feminist sociology \"for women, for people\"; and is now used by researchers in social sciences, education, human services and policy research as a method for mapping the translocal relations that coordinate people's activities within institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36065878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36065878", "title": "Juan Poblete", "text": "Juan Poblete\n\nJuan Poblete is Professor of Latin American Literature and Cultural Studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Poblete began his career as a UCSC Assistant Professor in 1997. He is also the provost of Kresge College at UCSC and a Governing Board Member of the Latino Literary Cultures Project/Proyecto Culturas Literarias Latinas. \n\nPoblete earned his Bachelor of Arts from the University of Chile and his Ph.D. from Duke University where he studied literary markets in Chile, the role subaltern readers play in influencing these markets, and the influence of cultural values on curricular choices in schools. One of Poblete’s professors at Duke University was Argentine born Walter Mignolo who contributed to Poblete's \"Critical Latin American and Latino Studies\". \n\nPoblete’s current research focuses on the 19th century Latin America and contemporary Latino culture. His research on the 19th century culture focuses on literature as a disciplinary discourse for the formation of national subjects, as a set of social practices, and as a product in the cultural market. \n\nIn addition, Poblete has written and researched various aspects of Latin American and Latino culture and experiences, with consideration to modern phenomenons including globalization and transnationalism. His studies on US Latinos and contemporary Chilean culture “participate in an effort to rethink Latin/o American Studies in a global framework. That is to say, capable of encompassing Latin America and the United States from interdisciplinary angles, which can do justice to the new complex cultural, social and political developments of a globalized Latin/o America.” Poblete’s work has also often analyzed literary works (including comics, film, and literature) and their political or social role in the U.S./Latin America.\n\nJuan Poblete is the son of Clara Garrido and Juan Poblete. He has four siblings: Haifa, Clara, Fernando, and Juan Claudio Poblete.\n\nPoblete refers to the productivity of affect in a post-social space to describe a space dominated by fear and insecurity between different bodies and experiences as a result of both virtual and real, social/political, and economic circumstances. When Poblete uses the concept “post-social space,” he refers to societies where social security, pensions, health care, education, and other social services or rights are fully or partially privatized, leading to an increase in insecurity and anxiety within society. In this post-social context, it becomes easier and seems necessary for members of society to receive privatized services through the work afforded by racialized immigrants who work for less than the minimum wage. Therefore, a post-social space leads to both confidence in and interdependence between the migrant and non-migrant as well as fear, suspicion, and externalization of the “other.” Poblete explains how non-migrants need migrants for the services they offer in a post-social space, while migrants need non-migrants’s employment for their own economic survival. Despite this interdependence, mutual effects including fear, anxiety, and resentment within conditions of exploitation lead to insecurity. As a result of this externalization or “otherization,” the migrant and non-migrant are both \"affected\" by a form of exclusion dominated by what becomes a subconscious form of fear and suspicion.\n\nIn his focus on undocumented migrants, Poblete notes that more than a third of U.S. immigrants have been undocumented and a large percent has been Latino. Within this context, Poblete analyzes the dialectics of both visibility and invisibility affecting migrant populations in the United States. By in/visibility, Poblete refers to the ways migrants are invisibilized as political actors who have contributed to the economy of U.S., while they are visibilized as publics, audiences, and consumers. Their invisibilization as political actors therefore allows for their exploitation and vulnerability while their visibility as publics and consumers allows society to profit from them as a market, often representing them in a culturally homogeneous or stereotyped fashion.\n\nJuan Poblete is a governing board member of the Latino Literary Cultures Project/Proyecto Culturas Literarias Latinas. This project was formed in 1992 and connects faculty and graduate students from the University of California, Santa Cruz, with local, regional, and global groups to promote transnational and interdisciplinary research focused on the Americas. The project also promotes creative writing by and about Latin@s, sponsoring a major biennial conference and smaller events involving students, scholars, writers, reviewers, and librarians.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28082298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28082298", "title": "Kuntillet Ajrud", "text": "Kuntillet Ajrud\n\nKuntillet Ajrud () is a late 9th/early 8th centuries BCE site in the northeast part of the Sinai Peninsula. It is frequently described as a shrine, though this is not certain.\n\nThe site was excavated in 1975/76 by Tel Aviv University archaeologist Ze’ev Meshel. The fortress-like main building is divided into two rooms, one large and the other small, both with low benches. Both rooms contained various paintings and inscriptions on the walls and on two large water-jars (\"pithoi\"), one found in each room. The paintings on the pithoi show various animals, stylised trees, and human figures, some of which may represent gods. They appear to have been done over a fairly considerable period and by several different artists, and do not form coherent scenes. The iconography is entirely Syrian/Phoenician and lacks any connection to the Egyptian models commonly found in Iron Age IIB Israel art.\n\nThe inscriptions are mostly in early Hebrew with some in Phoenician script. Many are religious in nature, invoking Yahweh, El and Baal, and two include the phrases \"Yahweh of Samaria and his Asherah\" and \"Yahweh of Teman and his Asherah.\" There is general agreement that Yahweh is being invoked in connection with Samaria (capital of the kingdom of Israel) and Teman (in Edom); this suggests that Yahweh had a temple in Samaria, and raises a question over the relationship between Yahweh and Kaus, the national god of Edom. The \"Asherah\" is most likely a cultic object, although the relationship of this object (a stylised tree perhaps) to Yahweh and to the goddess Asherah, consort of El, is unclear.\n\nAn image on the piece of pottery (belonging to a pithos vase) found at Kuntillet Ajrud is adjacent to a Hebrew inscription \"Berakhti etkhem l’YHVH Shomron ul’Asherato\" (\"I have blessed you by Yahweh of Samaria and [his] Asherah\"). Scholars disputed about the meaning and the significance of this. The two figures portrayed are generally identifiable as representing the Egyptian god Bes. Also, it is believed that part of this image was drawn after the inscription was written, namely the figure labeled as S (the leftmost humanoid figure depicted).\n\nThe excavation report by Ze'ev Meshel was published in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5933707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5933707", "title": "Limner", "text": "Limner\n\nA limner is an illuminator of manuscripts, or more generally, a painter of ornamental decoration. One of the earliest mentions of a limner's work is found in the book \"Methods and Materials of Painting\" by Charles Lock Eastlake (1793–1865).\n\nIn London in the mid-19th century the limner David Laurent de Lara established himself as a modern illuminator of manuscripts and documents. His work broke new ground and helped establish the idea of illumination as a contemporary artform in its own right, rather than as a historical artform.\n\nThe office of Her Majesty's Painter and Limner is a position within the Royal Household unique to Scotland. It is currently held by Dame Elizabeth Blackadder. The position of portrait painter to the royal household is honorary and for life.\n\nIn early 19th-century America, a limner artist was one who had little if any formal training and would travel from place to place to solicit commissions.\n\nAmong colonial America's rising mercantile class, a limner was an unattributed portrait commissioned as a status symbol. The local landowners and merchants who commissioned these portraits posed in their finest clothes, in well-appointed interiors, or in landscapes that identified their position, property, good taste, and sophistication.\n\nA late named artist who began in this genre is the Maine landscape artist Charles Codman, who in Eastern Argus (April 1, 1831) is described as an \"ornamental and sign painter\" or \"limner\" who practiced \"Military, Standard, Fancy, Ornamental, Masonic and Sign Painting\".\n\nThe Victoria Limners Society was a group of artists working in Victoria, British Columbia from 1971 through 2008. They worked within a variety of artistic styles and mediums, such as painting, sculpting, pottery, and other forms of visual art. The artists include Maxwell Bates, Pat Martin Bates, Richard Ciccimarra, Robert De Castro, Colin Graham, Helga Grove, Jan Grove, Elza Mayhew, Myfanwy Pavelic, Carole Sabiston, Herbert Siebner, Robin Skelton, and Karl Spreitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "37739876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37739876", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Egypt", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Egypt\n\nThis is a list of World Heritage sites in Egypt with properties of cultural and natural heritage in Egypt as inscribed in UNESCO's World Heritage list or as on the country's tentative list. As of 2016, eight sites in Egypt are included. In addition to its inscribed sites, Egypt also lists thirty-three properties on its tentative list.\n\nIn addition to sites inscribed on the World Heritage list, member states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider for nomination. Nominations for the World Heritage list are only accepted if the site was previously listed on the tentative list. As of 2016, Egypt lists thirty-three properties on its tentative list: \n\n"}
{"id": "2393351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393351", "title": "List of archaeological periods (Levant)", "text": "List of archaeological periods (Levant)\n\nThe following is a refined listing of Levantive archeological periods, expanded from the basic three-age system with finer subdivisions and extension into the modern historical period. The particular dates selected as the boundary between ages, as well as the period names for the historical era, are specific to Levantine archaeology and therefore are most accurate in that context. Beginning and ending dates of prehistoric ages are based on the introduction and prevalence of certain technologies, which varied from culture to culture (note: \"BP\" = \"Before Present\"); similarly, historical eras are named after cultures in whose sphere of influence the Levant was included. However, archaeologists studying other regions have sometimes found it useful to apply the same or similar eras to their fields of research (particularly prehistoric eras), and thus this list represents the most common interpretation of broad archaeological periods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26025764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26025764", "title": "List of preserved historic blast furnaces", "text": "List of preserved historic blast furnaces\n\nThis list of preserved historic blast furnaces contains decommissioned blast furnaces, of which substantial remains survive. The furnaces are preserved in a park or museum, or as a site otherwise open to visitors, or intended to become such.\n\nWhile pre-20th-century blast furnaces already have a long history of monument preservation, the perception of 20th century mass production blast furnace installations as industrial heritage is a comparably new trend. For a long time, it has been normal procedure for such a blast furnace to be demolished after being decommissioned and either be replaced with a newer, improved one, or to have the entire site demolished to make room for follow-up use of the area. It has only been in recent years that numerous countries have realized the value of blast furnaces as a part of their industrial history.\n\nHistorically, the first such blast furnace not to be demolished stands in Starachowice, Poland (decommissioned in 1968), followed by the last blast furnace of Yahata Steel Works in Yahatahigashi-ku, Kitakyūshū, Japan (decommissioned in 1972) and the \"Carrie Furnaces\" in Homestead, Pennsylvania in the United States (decommissioned in 1978). One of the two blast furnaces in Neunkirchen in Germany (decommissioned in 1982) was the first blast furnace worldwide to be not just preserved, but actively refurbished for the purpose of preservation.\n\nFor 20th-century mass production blast furnaces, the degree of accurate preservation versus integration into new structures, or even re-purposing, differs between the various sites. Colorful illumination installations at night are common.\n\nThese installations all date from the 20th century. They are supported by outer frames made of metal, were supplied with pre-heated blast air from external Cowper stoves, were typically part of large industrial compounds where, at one point, multiple blast furnaces were typically standing and operating side by side for efficiency reasons, raw materials were delivered by external elevating mechanisms, and the entire site was accessible by freight trains which delivered the raw materials and carried off the freshly smelted pig iron in ladles.\n\nIn many cases, the preserved sites have been deliberately stripped down to minimize maintenance costs; namely, some blast furnaces and related installations have been demolished. The goal was to only retain one or two blast furnaces including the relevant related installations (such as Cowper stoves, cast house, winch house etc.), which are considered sufficient to explain the blast furnace process and all related functions to visitors.\n\nThe first such decommissioned blast furnace that wasn't demolished and has been preserved to this very day stands in Starachowice, Poland, and has ceased operation as early as 1968.\n"}
{"id": "20357115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357115", "title": "Marquis de Sade bibliography", "text": "Marquis de Sade bibliography\n\nDonatien Alphonse François de Sade, best known as the Marquis de Sade, was a French aristocrat, revolutionary and author of philosophical and sadomasochistic novels exploring such controversial subjects as rape, bestiality and necrophilia. His works evidence a philosophical mind advocating a materialist philosophy in which Nature dictates absolute freedom, unrestrained by morality, religion or law, with the pursuit of personal pleasure as its foremost principle. Besides novels, he wrote philosophical tracts, novellas, short tales, and a number of plays (many of which no longer extant). Publication, dissemination, and translation of his works have long been hindered by censorship: not until 1983 were his works allowed unfettered distribution in the UK, for instance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20486400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20486400", "title": "Minor syllable", "text": "Minor syllable\n\nMinor syllable is a term used primarily in the description of Mon-Khmer languages, where a word typically consists of a reduced (minor) syllable followed by a full tonic or stressed syllable. The minor syllable may be of the form or , with a reduced vowel, as in colloquial Khmer, or of the form with no vowel at all, as in Mlabri \"navel\" (minor syllable ) and \"underneath\" (minor syllable ), and Khasi \"kyndon\" \"rule\" (minor syllable ), \"syrwet\" \"sign\" (minor syllable ), \"kylla\" \"transform\" (minor syllable ), \"symboh\" \"seed\" (minor syllable ) and \"tyngkai\" \"conserve\" (minor syllable ). This iambic pattern is sometimes called \"sesquisyllabic\" (lit. 'one and a half syllables'), a term coined by the American linguist James Matisoff in 1973:86. Outside Mon-Khmer, minor syllables are found in Burmese, where in contrast to full syllables they have the form , with no consonant clusters allowed in the syllable onset, no syllable coda, and no tone. Recent reconstructions of Proto-Tai and Old Chinese also include sesquisyllabic roots with minor syllables, as transitional forms between fully disyllabic words and the monosyllabic words found in modern Tai languages and modern Chinese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6858738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6858738", "title": "Montana Jones", "text": "Montana Jones\n\nThe series takes place in the 1930s and is about the adventures of Montana Jones, who goes treasure hunting with his cousin Alfred Jones and the beautiful reporter Melissa Thorn. They visit real locations and cities like the Pyramids of Giza, the Taj Mahal, Istanbul or Easter Island. Frequently they cross paths with Lord Zero - a rich, eccentric art lover and master thief. All characters in the series are anthropomorphized big cats. The anime was inspired by the Indiana Jones movies.\n\nBoston, 1930:\nMontana Jones and his cousin professor Alfred Jones travel around the world to search lost treasures in order to bring them to museums. Alfred's mentor Professor Gerrit helps them by sending gramophone records with information. On one trip they meet Melissa, a wealthy reporter, who speaks nearly all languages. She accompanies the two on their trips. Their opponent is Lord Zero, a rich, bizarre art lover and master thief. Lord Zero has two henchmen: Slim and Slam. There is also the inventor Dr. Nitro, who invents strange engines, which to help finding treasures.\n\n is always seeking the unknown and isn't afraid to do dangerous things. Together with his cousin Alfred he travels around the world finding treasures for Gerrit, Alfred's professor. The group's plans are often foiled by Lord Zero. Montana works in his aunt's restaurant to finance his airplane Ketty, a Supermarine GS waterplane constantly in need of repair. He lives somewhere on the coast in Boston. It is believed that Montana is infatuated with Melissa Thorn.\n\nHe was voiced by Akio Ohtsuka.\n\n likes to study old cultures, strange languages, and treasures. On the other hand, he hates danger, travelling, and can't swim, making him an opposite of his cousin Montana. Together, the two make a good team. Alfred loves his mother and eating spaghetti bolognese, which he often prepares for Melissa and Montana.\n\nHe was voiced by Ryusei Nakao.\n\n often helps Montana and Alfred and is the daughter of a diplomat. Melissa is a journalist and enjoys shopping and adventures with the two.\nIn the last episode her father is revealed to be Professor Gerrit, explaining why Melissa was always at the right time and place to help Montana and Alfred.\n\nShe was voiced by Junko Iwao.\n\n（episodes 1-8, 10, 12-13, 15-18, 23, 24-28, 33-34, 38-39, 45, 51-52) is Alfred's mother, and Montana's aunt.\n\nShe was voiced by Rihoko Yoshida.\n\n is the main antagonist of the story, constantly trying to get all the treasure for himself only to be thwarted by Montana and Alfred. Usually his plans are foiled because of a mistake from his minions Slim, Slam or Dr. Nitro. Lord Zero is notable for his walking staffs, which all have strange and diverse functionalities. Zero is constantly in a bad mood, and personally hates the excuse \"I'm sorry, it wouldn't have happened if you gave me more time and money.\"\n\nHe was voiced by Ryuzaburo Otomo.\n\n are the bumbling minions of Lord Zero. The two know searching for the treasures themselves would be more successful but their loyalty is greater than their daring. They often do the difficult work for Lord Zero, and when things go wrong they usually take the blame. Ironically, Slim is the larger of the two.\n\nSlim was voiced by Toshiharu Sakurai and Slam was voiced by Chō.\n\n is a minion of Lord Zero and a genius. He is a creator of machines for Lord Zero that never seem to work the right way, and often gives the excuse \"it wouldn't have happened if you gave me more time and money\" to defend them. Unfortunately, Lord Zero hates that excuse.\n\nHe was voiced by Junpei Takiguchi.\n\nThere are 52 episodes.\n"}
{"id": "35892640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35892640", "title": "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013", "text": "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013\n\nThe National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013 (short title) is a United States federal law which specifies the budget and expenditures of the United States Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 2013. The full title is An Act to Authorize Appropriations for fiscal year 2013 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes. This law has been assigned the number PL 112-239.\n\nSo as to not have the Act run into the same legal trouble as the 2012 version did, the United States House of Representatives included section 1029, which affirmed the right of habeas corpus and the Constitutional right of due process for American citizens. However, there were criticisms of the Act, especially with regard to a \"readiness\" and funding for an attack on Iran. Criticism had also been voiced regarding section 1033 of the House bill version which would state that nothing in the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40) or the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81) shall be construed to deny the availability of the writ of habeas corpus in for any person who is detained in the United States pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40).\n\nThe NDAA for Fiscal Year 2013 passed the House Armed Services Committee 56-5 on May 10. The bill as reported to the House authorizes $554.2 billion in base Pentagon spending and $88.5 billion for overseas contingency operations (OCO). The bill passed the full House on May 18 by a vote of 299-120. The bill was approved by the Senate on December 4, 2012 by a vote of 98-0. The U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate passed the Conference Report on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 in December 2012. The House passed it on December 20, 2012 with a vote of 315 yeas to 107 noes; the Senate passed it on December 21, 2012 with a vote of 81 yeas to 14 noes. President Barack Obama signed the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act on January 2, 2013.\n\nThe bill authorizes fiscal year 2013 appropriations for Department of Defense programs and military construction, Department of Energy national security programs, and Department of Transportation maritime security programs; authorizes recruitment and retention bonuses, special payments, and other authorities relating to the U.S. Armed Forces; and makes other modifications to national security, foreign affairs, and other related programs. The enacted act sets the U.S. Armed Forces' budget for the 2013 fiscal year to $633 billion. It also contains a prohibition on transferring Guantanamo detainees to the U.S and also includes the Afghan Women and Girl's Security Promotion Act.\n\nIn his signing statement to the Act Obama stated \"Even though I support the vast majority of the provisions contained in [NDAA] I do not agree with them all. [...] Though I continue to oppose certain sections of the Act, the need to renew critical defense authorities and funding was too great to ignore.\" Among these provisions are those that effectively thwart Obama's efforts to close Guantanamo Bay detention camp and give military members the right to refuse to take certain actions that violate their conscience. The president was criticized by civil rights and human rights organizations for his signing. American Civil Liberties Union Executive Director Anthony Romero said with respect to the 2012 NDAA indefinite detention provisions and Obama's signature under the 2013 NDAA: \"His signature means that indefinite detention without charge or trial, as well as the illegal military commissions, will be extended.\" \"This law makes it harder for the President to fulfill his promise to close the Guantanamo detention facility, perpetuating a grave injustice against the detainees held without charge or fair trial,\" said Frank Jannuzi, Deputy Executive Director of Amnesty International USA. \"Solutions for ending human rights violations, not excuses, must be found.\"\n\nThe NDAA, an otherwise mundane annual bill that lays out the use of funds for the Department of Defense, has come under attack during the Obama administration for the introduction of a provision in 2012 that allows the military to detain United States citizens indefinitely without charge or trial for mere suspicions of ties to terrorism. Under the 2012 NDAA's Sec. 1021, U.S. President Obama did not agree to give the military the power to arrest and hold Americans without the writ of habeas corpus as he promised with that year's signing statement that his administration would not abuse that privilege.\n\nOn December 4, 2012, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the bill 98-0 and added in Section 1033 the Feinstein-Lee NDAA Amendment which states: \"An authorization to use military force, a declaration of war, or any similar authority shall not authorize the detention without charge or trial of a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States apprehended in the United States, unless an Act of Congress expressly authorizes such detention.\" Civil liberties group are concerned with this amendment because they think anyone on American soil should be given a trial if accused of a crime, given that the U.S. Constitution protects \"persons,\" rather than \"citizens.\" The Feinstein-Lee amendment is \"inconsistent with the constitutional principle that basic due process applies to everyone in the US,\" said American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) legislative counsel Chris Anders. Anders was also worried that the amendment could be construed to actually imply that the U.S. government has the constitutional authority for indefinite detention without charge and trial. \"Moreover, we are very concerned that the Feinstein amendment implicitly authorizes domestic military detention. By seeking to protect only United States citizens and legal permanent residents, the amendment could be read to imply that indefinite military detention of any other persons apprehended within the United States was authorized in 2001 and was lawful,\" the ACLU wrote, referring to the Authorization for Use of Military Force, the founding document of the \"war on terror\" that was passed the week after the 9/11 attacks. \"In addition, the clause 'unless an Act of Congress expressly authorizes such detention' could be read to imply that there are no constitutional obstacles to Congress enacting a statute that would authorize the domestic military detention of any person in the United States,\" the ACLU wrote.\n\nA Congressional conference committee tasked with merging the House and Senate versions of the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) decided on December 18, 2012 to drop the Feinstein-Lee provision, which would have explicitly barred the military from holding American citizens and permanent residents in indefinite detention without trial as terrorism suspects. There was no reason given for this. Instead, the following replacement provivison was added:\n\nThe Huffington Post noted that the replacement version appeared to do little, because the Supreme Court has already declared that the writ of habeas corpus, i.e. the constitutional requirement that someone be presented to a judge, applies to all people. This was echoed from the civil liberties groups. \"This language doesn't do anything of substance,\" said Raha Wala, a lawyer in the law and national security program of Human Rights First. \"It doesn't ban indefinite detention within the United States or change anything about existing law.\" Chris Anders from the American Civil Liberties Union called the language on indefinite detention of Americans \"completely meaningless\" and added there's no doubt that habeas rights are available to anyone who's detained in the U.S.\n\nHJ Adams, a lawyer for the group of journalists and activists suing the U.S. government over the 2012 NDAA, explained that the above quoted provision gives U.S. citizens a right to go to civilian (i.e. Article III) court based on \"any [applicable] constitutional rights,\" but since there are no rules in place to exercise this right, detained U.S. citizens currently have no way to gain access to lawyers, family or the court itself once they are detained within the military. Afran added that the new statute actually states that persons lawfully in the U.S. can be detained under the Authorization for the Use of Military Force [AUMF], while the original statute from the 2012 NDAA which he is fighting never went that far. Afran concluded: \"Therefore, under the guise of supposedly adding protection to Americans, the new statute actually expands the AUMF to civilians in the U.S.\"\n\nThe \"Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2012\" was introduced by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry on May 10, 2012 in the House of Representatives. The bill purpose is \"to authorize the domestic dissemination of information and material about the United States intended primarily for foreign audiences\" The act was added to the 2013 NDAA bill as section of 1078 to amend certain passages of \"Smith-Mundt Act of 1948\" and \"Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 1987\". The \"Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2012\" passed Congress as part of the NDAA 2013 on December 28, 2012. Amendments made to the \"Smith-Mundt Act of 1948\" and \"Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 1987\" allow for materials produced by the State Department and the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) to be released within US borders. U.S. Congressmen Adam Smith stated with the respect to the bill's purpose that al-Qaeda was infiltrating the Internet in order to promote anti-American sentiments and that with passage of the \"Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2012\" the US government would be able disseminate public diplomacy information by the State department to counter that in the Arabic language abroad.\n\nSeveral news outlets reported that the 2013 NDAA overturned a 64-year ban on the domestic dissemination of propaganda (described as \"public diplomacy information\") produced for foreign audiences, effectively eliminating the distinction between foreign and domestic audiences. The social news media site BuzzFeed for example quoted an unnamed source saying the \"Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2012\" would allow \"U.S. propaganda intended to influence foreign audiences to be used on the domestic population.\"\n\nThe Media and Outreach Coordinator for the U.S. State Department's Bureau of African Affairs, Gregory L. Garland, noted that the United States shoots itself in the foot by the release prohibition of materials produced by the State Department and the BBG within US borders and by preaching freedom of the press abroad while practicing censorship at home. He argued against a complete repeal of the \"Smith-Mundt Act of 1948\" stating that the law \"creates a statutory firewall between resources intended for foreign audiences and those used domestically. Tear down that firewall, and it will be a matter of time before resources and personnel who focus on talking about America overseas are diverted in favor of domestic \"public affairs,\" the short-term political imperative of any administration.\" An unnamed Pentagon official who was concerned about the 2012 law version stated: \"It removes the protection for Americans. It removes oversight from the people who want to put out this information. There are no checks and balances. No one knows if the information is accurate, partially accurate, or entirely false.\" The monthly magazine \"The Atlantic\" echoed those concerns by pointing out to two USA Today journalists who became target of a smear and propaganda campaign after they reported that the U.S. military \"information operations\" program spent millions of U.S. dollars in marketing campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq criticized as ineffective and poorly monitored. As it turned out one of firm leaders who executed the marketing campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan admitted to be a part of the smear and propaganda campaign against the USA Today reporters.\n\nWhile there are concerns as the described above there are also advantages by repealing the release prohibition of material materials produced by the State Department and the BBG within US borders. Garland for example wrote that the provision banning domestic dissemination deprives the United States in a communication age with no frontiers the U.S. of its \"most powerful tool of soft power: our ideals.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3679526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3679526", "title": "Oxford Archaeology", "text": "Oxford Archaeology\n\nOxford Archaeology (OA, trading name of Oxford Archaeology Limited) is one of the largest and longest-established independent archaeology and heritage practices in Europe, operating from three permanent offices in Oxford, Lancaster and Cambridge, and working across the UK. OA is a Registered Organisation with the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA), and carries out commercial archaeological fieldwork in advance of development, as well as a range of other heritage related services. Oxford Archaeology primarily operates in the UK, but has also carried out contracts around the world, including Sudan, Qatar, Central Asia, China and the Caribbean. Numbers of employees vary owing to the project-based nature of the work, but in 2014 OA employed over 220 people.\n\nThe registered head office is in Osney Mead, Oxford, southern England; this address is also the base for OA South. Other offices are OA North in Lancaster, northern England, OA East in Bar Hill, Cambridgeshire, eastern England. Between 2007 and 2011, OA had offices in Mauguio (OA Méditerranée), southern France and Caen (OA Grand Ouest), northern France.\n\nIn the late 1960s, the recently created Oxford City and County Museum led the archaeological response to a development boom in Oxfordshire. However, the museum lacked the resources to tackle the rescue crisis alone. The museum's answer was to form independent excavation committees in response to specific development threats, starting in Oxford in 1967. These committees were registered charities with public benefit at the heart of their purpose. They employed short-term contract staff, supplemented by volunteer diggers.\n\nSoon a number of committees were operating, which tended to have the same governing members drawn from Central and Local Government, Oxford University and local archaeological societies. They also competed for the same funds. A consensus rapidly emerged that this duplication was wasteful and that all the committees should pool their resources to provide a county-wide service for archaeological research, using the opportunities presented by development. Thus the Oxfordshire Archaeological Committee and its executive arm, the Oxfordshire Archaeological Unit, came into existence in 1973.\n\nIn the following years, the company adjusted flexibly to changing conditions, and expanded outside the county (hence the change in name to the Oxford Archaeological Unit). It also became a limited liability company, adjusted to new funding streams, and it embraced new methods and technologies. The company began trading as Oxford Archaeology in 2001.\n\nRecent notable excavations include the excavation of prehistoric flint scatters and a Roman bloomery at the Bexhill-Hastings Link Road, the medieval friary of Greyfriars at Westgate Oxford, and a WWI mass grave of Australian soldiers at Fromelles.\n\nThe Lancaster University Archaeological Unit (LUAU), together with its staff, became the northern office of Oxford Archaeology on 1 November 2001. This followed a decision that the needs of a professional archaeological unit could no longer be best served by its continuance within the university. OAN continued the wide range of work undertaken in the past, from desk-based assessments, through evaluation and rapid surveys of both the landscape and the built and industrial environments, to major excavations. Particular specialisations are upland survey and the excavation and recording of standing industrial remains.\n\nOAN has taken the lead within OA on all archaeological projects carried out by the organisation throughout the north of England. OAN has worked on a great number of sites across northern England, and brought them to publication. These have included infrastructure projects on the A1(M), A66, the Asselby to Pannal and West East Link Main pipelines, and the Carlisle North Development Route (CNDR). OAN has also worked extensively on cemeteries and burials across northern England, including a Viking cemetery at Cumwhitton , medieval and post-medieval graveyards, and at Furness Abbey where a high-ranking clergyman was excavated. Since the North was the cradle of the Industrial Revolution, the investigation of factories, mills and workers’ housing also forms an important part of OAN’s work.\n\nIn 2008, Cambridgeshire County Council's Field Unit, CAMARC, joined Oxford Archaeology as its third regional centre. CAMARC itself was a recently revised name for an organisation that had been given a variety of titles over more than 20 years of existence. Its lineage started in the early 1980s with Manpower Services Commission-funded community programme projects, and it continued to carry out developer-funded work in the mid-80s as the 'Archaeological Field Unit'.\n\nOAE continues to deliver major programmes for infrastructure projects and for smaller-scale developments in both rural and urban areas. Its large rural landscape projects include complex Middle Bronze Age field systems, enclosures and settlements at Clay Farm, Trumpington. Recent urban schemes include the Itter Crescent Roman villa excavation in Peterborough and excavations of Victorian and Medieval settlement relating to Stourbridge Fair at Harvest Way, Newmarket Road, Cambridge.\n\nHaving published some 200 monographs, reports and booklets, Oxford Archaeology has established itself as a major publisher of archaeological reports with the production of monograph series, such as Thames Valley Landscapes and Lancaster Imprints, and contributions to other major series, including East Anglian Archaeology Reports. OA has also produced many ‘popular’ publications, pamphlets and booklets written in a less technical style. \n\nList of publications:\n\nPublications include \"Yarnton: Iron Age and Romano-British Settlement and Landscape\", which describes the Iron Age and Roman occupation of a multi-period landscape on the floodplain and gravel terrace of the River Thames, \"Archaeology at the Waterfront: 1: Investigating Liverpool's Historic Docks\", which presents the findings of the largest campaign of archaeological investigation yet undertaken along Liverpool’s historic waterfront by Oxford Archaeology North and the National Museums Liverpool Field Archaeology Unit, \"‘Remember me to all’: The archaeological recovery and identification of soldiers who fought and died in the Battle of Fromelles, 1916\", which describes Oxford Archaeology's contribution to a joint Australian and British government mission, under the management of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, to recover the soldiers and re-bury them with full military honours in a new Commonwealth War Graves cemetery in Fromelles, and \"Broughton, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire: The evolution of a South Midlands landscape\", which reports on extensive excavations near the village of Broughton on the outskirts of Milton Keynes that revealed the fluctuating fortunes of neighbouring settlements from the Iron Age to the medieval period.\n\nOxford Archaeology has contributed many archaeology reports and research papers to county, national and period archaeological journals.\n\nIn addition, as part of its commitment to open access for archaeological data, Oxford Archaeology has developed the OA Library, an online resource used to disseminate digital material, including ‘grey literature’ client reports grey literature online, selected monographs, and supporting archives produced by Oxford Archaeology. It also makes available internally developed software on the Launchpad site under the umbrella project \"Open Archaeology\".\n\nOxford Archaeology has incorporated digital survey techniques into its geomatics work. The most notable of these techniques is photogrammetric mapping, which uses photographs taken from an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to create accurate three-dimensional models of the archaeological evidence, including artefacts, historic buildings or whole landscapes. Other techniques for data capture include differential RTK GPS, 3D laser scanning, Lidar and Total Station surveys. \n\nDuring excavations by OAS at Westgate Oxford, the site of a medieval Greyfriars friary, three-dimensional models were generated through a combination of standard archaeological survey techniques and photogrammetric or structure from motion techniques. Photogrammetry and 3D modelling has not been confined to structures. The skeletons from a late Roman and Saxon cemetery at Cherry Hinton in Cambridge, excavated by OAE, were recorded using photogrammetry. UAVs have been used by OAN to map extensive landscapes, such as the former Greenside lead mine in the Lake District. The combination of a UAV, photogrammetry and detailed orthophotos captured the complex lead mining landscape, which comprised spoil heaps, mine shafts, wheel pits, engine houses, and trackways, among other remains. Oxford Archaeology uses a hand-held laser scanner that has an inertial measurement unit (IMU) and a small scanner mounted on top. These features allow the scanner to fix its location precisely and the surveyor to record the interior of a building in as much time as it takes to walk through it. Combining photogrammetry with the laser scanner also allows whole buildings to be recorded in 3D. OAN has employed the hand-held laser scanner to record Daisy Mill, a former Victorian cotton mill in south Manchester, and Lion Mill, a corn mill in Stonyhurst in Lancashire.\n\nA registered charitable trust with educational aims, OA has various outreach and community archaeology projects running alongside its commercial work. All three offices engage in outreach and public engagement, with a particular focus at OAE. Recent highlights include the volunteer dig at Maryport Roman settlement and the Jigsaw Cambridgeshire project which trains and supports local archaeology societies across Cambridgeshire \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10045668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10045668", "title": "Public Understanding of Science", "text": "Public Understanding of Science\n\nPublic Understanding of Science is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that was established in 1992 and is published by SAGE Publications. It covers topics in the popular perception of science, the role of science in society, philosophy of science, science education, and science in public policy. The editor-in-chief is Massimiano Bucchi (University of Trento).\n\"Public Understanding of Science\" is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 2-year impact factor is 2.453, ranking it 13 out of 84 journals in the category \"Communication\" and 3 out of 44 journals in the category \"History & Philosophy of Science\".\n\n\"Public Understanding of Science\" has been criticised for its lack of commitment to open access, given that it publishes research about public understanding and access to scientific knowledge. Journal editors have published reasons for their position in the journal. However debate continues even within the journal's editorial team.\n"}
{"id": "17660060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17660060", "title": "RINEX", "text": "RINEX\n\nIn the field of geodesy, Receiver Independent Exchange Format (RINEX) is a data interchange format for raw satellite navigation system data. This allows the user to post-process the received data to produce a more accurate result — usually with other data unknown to the original receiver, such as better models of the atmospheric conditions at time of measurement.\n\nThe final output of a navigation receiver is usually its position, speed or other related physical quantities. However, the calculation of these quantities are based on a series of measurements from one or more satellite constellations. Although receivers calculate positions in real time, in many cases it is interesting to store intermediate measures for later use. RINEX is the standard format that allows the management and disposal of the measures generated by a receiver, as well as their off-line processing by a multitude of applications, whatever the manufacturer of both the receiver and the computer application.\n\nThe RINEX format is designed to evolve over time, adapting to new types of measurements and new satellite navigation systems. The first RINEX version was published by W. Gurtner and G. Mader in the CSTG GPS Bulletin of September/October 1990. Since 1993 the RINEX 2 is available, which has been revised and adopted several times. RINEX enables storage of measurements of pseudorange, carrier-phase, Doppler and signal-to-noise from GPS (including GPS modernization signals e.g. L5 and L2C), GLONASS, Galileo, Beidou, along with data from EGNOS and WAAS satellite based augmentation systems (SBAS), QZSS, simultaneously. RINEX version 3.02 was submitted in April 2013 and is capable of new measurements from GPS or Galileo systems. The most recent version is RINEX 3.03 from July 2015 with update 1 to 3.03 published in 2017.\n\nAlthough not part of the RINEX format, the \"Hatanaka compression scheme \" is commonly used to reduced the size of RINEX files, resulting in an ASCII-based CompactRINEX format.. It uses higher-order time differences to reduce the number of characters needed to store time data.\n\n"}
{"id": "68062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68062", "title": "Remodernism", "text": "Remodernism\n\nRemodernism revives aspects of modernism, particularly in its early form, and follows postmodernism, to which it contrasts. Adherents of remodernism advocate it as a forward and radical, not reactionary, impetus.\n\nIn 2000, Billy Childish and Charles Thomson, founders of the stuckism art movement instigated remodernism, with a manifesto, \"Remodernism\" in an attempt to introduce a period of new spirituality into art, culture and society to replace postmodernism, which they said was cynical and spiritually bankrupt. In 2002, a remodernism art show in Albuquerque was accompanied by an essay from University of California, Berkeley art professor, Kevin Radley, who said there was a renewal of artists working without the limitation of irony and cynicism, and that there was a renewal of the sense of beauty.\n\nIn 2006, the Stedelijk Museum and the University of Amsterdam held a talk on remodernism with Daniel Birnbaum and Alison Gingeras; the introduction to this talked of the revival of painting as a possible return to traditional modernist values, such as authenticity, self-expression and autonomy, as opposed to multimedia practice.\n\nCharles Thomson and Billy Childish, the founders of the stuckism art movement, inaugurated the period of remodernism. Their \"Remodernism\" manifesto was published on March 1, 2000 to promote vision, authenticity and self-expression, with an emphasis on painting, and subtitled \"towards a new spirituality in art.\" Its premise is that the potential of the modernist vision has not been fulfilled, that its development has been in the wrong direction and that this vision needs to be reclaimed, redefined and redeveloped. It advocates the search for truth, knowledge and meaning, and challenges formalism. \n\nIt has a short introduction, summing up: \"Modernism has progressively lost its way, until finally toppling into the bottomless pit of Postmodern balderdash.\" This is followed by 14 numbered points, stressing bravery, individuality, inclusiveness, communication, humanity and the perennial against nihilism, scientific materialism and the \"brainless destruction of convention.\" Point 7 states:\n\nPoint 9 states: \"Spiritual art is not religion. Spirituality is humanity's quest to understand itself and finds its symbology through the clarity and integrity of its artists.\" Point 12 links its use of the word \"God\" to enthusiasm—from the Greek root \"en theos\" (to be possessed by God).\n\nThe summary at the end starts, \"It is quite clear to anyone of an uncluttered mental disposition that what is now put forward, quite seriously, as art by the ruling elite, is proof that a seemingly rational development of a body of ideas has gone seriously awry,\" and finds the solution is a spiritual renaissance because \"there is nowhere else for art to go. Stuckism's mandate is to initiate that spiritual renaissance now.\"\n\nChildish and Thomson sent their remodernism manifesto to Sir Nicholas Serota, Director of the Tate Gallery, who replied, \"You will not be surprised to learn that I have no comment to make on your letter, or your manifesto \"Remodernism\".\"\n\nIn March 2000 the Stuckists declared themselves to be the first remodernist art group at a show \"The Resignation of Sir Nicholas Serota\". In April, remodernism was quoted in \"The Gulf News\" (UAE). In May \"The Observer\" newspaper announced a stuckist show: \"As the founding group of a self-named art movement called Remodernism, they stand on an art ticket that's against clever conceptualism and in favour of a more emotional and spiritual integrity in art via figurative painting.\"\n\nIn June, Thomson and Childish gave a talk on stuckism and remodernism at the Salon des Arts, Kensington, promoted by the Institute of Ideas. The same month the \"Students for Stuckism\" also gave \"a Remodernist show and talk.\" The Institute of Remodernism was founded by Dr Khatereh Ahmadi.\n\nIn 2001, Thomson stood in the UK general election, stating, \"The Stuckist Party aims to bring the ideas of Stuckism and Remodernism into the political arena.\" \n\nIn January 2002, Magnifico Arts presented a show \"ReMo: ReModernism\" of graduate students from the University of New Mexico. At an artists' talk, Kevin Radley, an art professor at the University of California, Berkeley said, \"Remodernism isn't about going backwards, but about surging forward.\" In an essay that accompanied the exhibition, Radley wrote:\nThe show curator, Yoshimi Hayashi, said:\nIn 2003, an independent group, the Stuckist Photographers, was founded by Andy Bullock and Larry Dunstan with a statement of endorsement for remodernism.\n\nIn 2004, the Defastenists, a new group of creatives in Ireland, declared themselves remodernist. A Remodernist art gallery, The Deatrick Gallery was founded in Louisville, Kentucky.\nAmerican film makers/photographers Jesse Richards and Harris Smith co-founded a new group remodernist film and photography with an emphasis on emotional meaning and characterised by elements of new-wave, no-wave, expressionist and transcendental film-making.\n\nStuckist artist Bill Lewis, interviewed by the BBC at the 2004 Liverpool Biennial, said that remodernism was \"not a movement as such,\" but a return to the start of modernism in order to move forward with an art for a new paradigm. To \"remodernise\" is to go \"back to the root again, starting with painting ... and see where it goes.\" He said that this had been called reactionary, but it was radical \"in the true sense of the word.\" New York stuckist artist, Terry Marks said that remodernism posited that modernism had started in a good direction, but veered from that into \"pure idea\" and that it was necessary to return to the starting point to take an as-yet unexplored alternative direction: \"to pursue art-making that's more concrete and accessible to more people, and find out where that leads us.\"\n\nIn 2004, Luke Heighton wrote in \"The Future\" magazine, \"Remodernism, it seems, is here to stay whether we like it or not.\" Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand declared 2004 \"a good year for remodernism—for having the gall to suggest that artists can have souls.\" \n\nIn August 2005 an art show \"\" (a title taken from a line in the stuckist remodernism manifesto) was held at CBGBs 313 gallery in New York City. Artist and blogger Mark Vallen said, \"In the mid-1970s punk rock was born in a dank little New York nightclub called CBGB's. It all started when rockers like Television, the Ramones and Patti Smith launched a frontal assault on the monolith of corporate rock 'n roll. Now another artistic revolt, Remodernism, is about to widen its offensive from the birthplace of punk.\"\n\nOn May 10, 2006, the Stedelijk Museum and the University of Amsterdam staged a talk on remodernism by Daniel Birnbaum, contributing editor of \"Artforum\", and Alison Gingeras, Assistant Curator, Guggenheim Museum. The summary is:\nIn August 2006, an online group called \"The Remodernists of Deviantart\" was founded by Clay Martin. The group is composed of artists who are active on the website deviantart.com. \n\nIn 2006, artist Matt Bray said, \"I do not wish to be considered a Stuckist, as I find some of there (sic) antics unnecessary. The Stuckists are however the first and most famous Remodernist group, so for that, and for bringing this particular manifesto to my attention; I thank them.\" In May 2007, with punk singer Adam Bray, he created the Mad Monk Collective in Folkestone, England, to promote remodernism.\n\nIn January 2008, London \"Evening Standard\" critic, Ben Lewis, said the year would see \"the invention of a new word to describe the modernist revival: 'remodernism,'\" which he applied later in the year to Turner Prize nominees Mark Leckey, Runa Islam and Goshka Macuga, as \"part of a whole movement reviving early 20th-century formalism,\" praising Macuga for her \"heartfelt, modest and generous-spirited aesthetic,\" of which he said there was more needed today. In April 2009, he described Catalina Niculescu, a Romanian artist using \"nostalgic\" 16mm film, as among a significant trend in art of fetishising the offcuts of modernism: \"Let's call it Remodernism.\"\n\nOn August 27, 2008, Jesse Richards published a \"Remodernist Film Manifesto\", calling for a \"new spirituality in cinema,\" use of intuition in filmmaking, as well as describing the remodernist film as being a \"stripped down, minimal, lyrical, punk kind of filmmaking\". The manifesto criticizes Stanley Kubrick, filmmakers who use digital video, and Dogme 95. Point 4 says: \nIn 2009, Nick Christos and other students from Florida Atlantic University founded the Miami Stuckists group. Christos said, \n\"Stuckism is a renaissance of modernism—it's re-modernism.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14099761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14099761", "title": "Romani studies", "text": "Romani studies\n\nRomani studies (occasionally Gypsiology) is an emerging interdisciplinary ethnic studies field concerned with the experiences of the Romani people. Very rare (or nonnative) terms for the field include \"Ziganology\", \"Ciganology\", \"Romology\", \"Romalogy\", and \"Romistics\". Romani studies draws on aspects of sociology, anthropology, linguistics, and political science. Particular areas of focus include the origins of the Romani people, experiences of persecution and political oppression, the Romani language, Romani society and culture, and Romani customs and traditions. As a formal discipline, Romani studies originated in the United Kingdom in the 1990s, with key contributors including Ian Hancock, Thomas Acton, David Smith, and Michael Stewart.\n\nThe area of inquiry of Romani studies often extends beyond ethnic Roma to Irish Travellers, Yeniche, and other groups traditionally known as Gypsies.\n\nThe main publication in this field is the academic journal \"Romani Studies\", which is published by the Gypsy Lore Society and edited by Kimmo Granqvist, Professor in Romani studies at Södertörn University, Stockholm.\n\n"}
{"id": "26906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26906", "title": "Semantic dispute", "text": "Semantic dispute\n\n\"For semantic arguments in linguistics, see verb argument.\"\n\nA semantic dispute is a disagreement that arises if the parties involved disagree about the definition of a word or phrase, not because they disagree on material facts, but rather because they disagree on the definitions of a word (or several words) essential to formulating the claim at issue. It is sometimes held that semantic disputes are not genuine disputes at all, but very often they \"are\" regarded as perfectly genuine, e.g., in philosophy. It is also sometimes held that when a semantic dispute arises, the focus of the debate should switch from the original thesis to the meaning of the terms of which there are different definitions (understandings, concepts, etc.). Semantic disputes can result in the logical fallacy of equivocation. In politics, for example, semantic disputes can involve the meaning of words such as liberal, democrat, conservative, republican, progressive, free, welfare or socialist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1571927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571927", "title": "Social support", "text": "Social support\n\nSocial support is the perception and actuality that one is cared for, has assistance available from other people, and most popularly, that one is part of a supportive social network. These supportive resources can be emotional (e.g., nurturance), tangible (e.g., financial assistance), informational (e.g., advice), or companionship (e.g., sense of belonging) and intangible (e.g., personal advice).\n\nSocial support can be measured as the perception that one has assistance available, the actual received assistance, or the degree to which a person is integrated in a social network. Support can come from many sources, such as family, friends, pets, neighbors, coworkers, organizations, etc. Government-provided social support is often referred to as public aid in foreign nations. \n\nSocial support is studied across a wide range of disciplines including psychology, medicine, sociology, nursing, public health, education, rehabilitation, and social work. Social support has been linked to many benefits for both physical and mental health, but \"social support\" (e.g., gossiping about friends) is not always beneficial.\n\nSocial support theories and models were prevalent as intensive academic studies in the 1980s and 1990s , and are linked to the development of caregiving and payment models, and community delivery systems in the US and around the world. \n\nTwo main models have been proposed to describe the link between social support and health: the buffering hypothesis and the direct effects hypothesis. Gender and cultural differences in social support have also been found in fields such as education \"which may not control for age, disability, income and social status, ethnic and racial, or other significant factors\".\n\nSocial support can be categorized and measured in several different ways.\n\nThere are four common functions of social support:\n\n\nResearchers also commonly make a distinction between perceived and received support. \"Perceived support\" refers to a recipient’s subjective judgment that providers will offer (or have offered) effective help during times of need. \"Received support\" (also called enacted support) refers to specific supportive actions (e.g., advice or reassurance) offered by providers during times of need.\n\nFurthermore, social support can be measured in terms of structural support or functional support. \"Structural support\" (also called \"social integration\") refers to the extent to which a recipient is connected within a social network, like the number of social ties or how integrated a person is within his or her social network. Family relationships, friends, and membership in clubs and organizations contribute to social integration. \"Functional support\" looks at the specific functions that members in this social network can provide, such as the emotional, instrumental, informational, and companionship support listed above.\nData suggests that emotional support may play a more significant role in protecting individuals from the deleterious effects of stress than structural means of support, such as social involvement or activity.\n\nThese different types of social support have different patterns of correlations with health, personality, and personal relationships. For example, perceived support is consistently linked to better mental health whereas received support and social integration are not. In fact, research indicates that perceived social support that is untapped can be more effective and beneficial than utilized social support. Some have suggested that invisible support, a form of support where the person has support without his or her awareness, may be the most beneficial.\n\nSocial support can come from a variety of sources, including (but not limited to): family, friends, romantic partners, pets, community ties, and coworkers. Sources of support can be natural (e.g., family and friends) or more formal (e.g., mental health specialists or community organizations). \nThe source of the social support is an important determinant of its effectiveness as a coping strategy. Support from a romantic partner is associated with health benefits, particularly for men. However, one study has found that although support from spouses buffered the negative effects of work stress, it did not buffer the relationship between marital and parental stresses, because the spouses were implicated in these situations.However, work-family specific support worked more to alleviate work-family stress that feeds into marital and parental stress. Employee humor is negatively associated with burnout, and positively with, stress, health and stress coping effectiveness. Additionally, social support from friends did provide a buffer in response to marital stress, because they were less implicated in the marital dynamic.\n\nEarly familial social support has been shown to be important in children’s abilities to develop social competencies, and supportive parental relationships have also had benefits for college-aged students. Teacher and school personnel support have been shown to be stronger than other relationships of support. This is hypothesized to be a result of family and friend social relationships to be subject to conflicts whereas school relationships are more stable.\n\nSocial support is also available among social media sites. As technology advances, the availability for online support increases. Social support can be offered through social media websites such as blogs, Facebook groups, health forums, and online support groups. According to Hwang, the support is similar to face-to-face social support, but also offers the unique aspects of convenience, anonymity, and non-judgmental interactions. Support sought through social media also provides users with emotional comfort that relates them to others while creating awareness about particular health issues.\n\nResearch conducted by Winzelberg et al. evaluated an online support group for women with breast cancer finding participants were able to form fulfilling supportive relationships in an asynchronous format and this form of support proved to be effective in reducing participants' scores on depression, perceived stress, and cancer-related trauma measures. This type of online communication can increase the ability to cope with stress. Social support through social media is available to everyone with internet access and allows users to create relationships and receive encouragement for whatever issue they may be facing.\n\nCoulson claims online support groups provide a unique opportunity for health professionals to learn about the experiences and views of individuals. This type of social support can also benefit users by providing them with a variety of information. Seeking informational social support allows users to access suggestions, advice, and information regarding health concerns or recovery. Many need social support, and with its emergence on social media access can be obtained from a wider range of people in need. Wong and Ma (2016) have done research that shows online social support affects users' online subjective well-being. \n\nSocial support profile is associated with increased psychological well-being in the workplace and in response to important life events.\nIn stressful times, social support helps people reduce psychological distress (e.g., anxiety or depression). Social support can simultaneously function as a problem-focused (e.g. receiving tangible information that helps resolve an issue) and emotion-focused coping strategy (e.g. used to regulate emotional responses that arise from the stressful event) Social support ≤has been found to promote psychological adjustment in conditions with chronic high stress like HIV, rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, stroke, and coronary artery disease. Additionally, social support has been associated with various acute and chronic pain variables (for more information, see Chronic pain).\n\nPeople with low social support report more sub-clinical symptoms of depression and anxiety than do people with high social support. In addition, people with low social support have higher rates of major mental disorder than those with high support. These include posttraumatic stress disorder, panic disorder, social phobia, major depressive disorder, dysthymic disorder, and eating disorders. Among people with schizophrenia, those with low social support have more symptoms of the disorder. In addition, people with low support have more suicidal ideation, and more alcohol and (illicit and prescription) drug problems. Similar results have been found among children. Religious coping has especially been shown to correlate positively with positive psychological adjustment to stressors with enhancement of faith-based social support hypothesized as the likely mechanism of effect. However, more recent research reveals the role of religiosity/spirituality in enhancing social support may be overstated and in fact disappears when the personality traits of \"agreeableness\" and \"conscientiousness\" are also included as predictors.\n\nIn a 2013 study, Akey et al. did a qualitative study of 34 men and women diagnosed with an eating disorder and used the Health Belief Model (HBM) to explain the reasons for which they forgo seeking social support. Many people with eating disorders have a low perceived susceptibility, which can be explained as a sense of denial about their illness. Their perceived severity of the illness is affected by those to whom they compare themselves to, often resulting in people believing their illness is not severe enough to seek support. Due to poor past experiences or educated speculation, the perception of benefits for seeking social support is relatively low. The number of perceived barriers towards seeking social support often prevents people with eating disorders from getting the support they need to better cope with their illness. Such barriers include fear of social stigma, financial resources, and availability and quality of support. Self-efficacy may also explain why people with eating disorders do not seek social support, because they may not know how to properly express their need for help. This research has helped to create a better understanding of why individuals with eating disorders do not seek social support, and may lead to increased efforts to make such support more available. Eating disorders are classified as mental illnesses but can also have physical health repercussions. Creating a strong social support system for those affected by eating disorders may help such individuals to have a higher quality of both mental and physical health.\n\nVarious studies have been performed examining the effects of social support on psychological distress. Interest in the implications of social support were triggered by a series of articles published in the mid-1970s, each reviewing literature examining the association between psychiatric disorders and factors such as change in marital status, geographic mobility, and social disintegration. Researchers realized that the theme present in each of these situations is the absence of adequate social support and the disruption of social networks. This observed relationship sparked numerous studies concerning the effects of social support on mental health.\n\nOne particular study documented the effects of social support as a coping strategy on psychological distress in response to stressful work and life events among police officers. Talking things over among coworkers was the most frequent form of coping utilized while on duty, whereas most police officers kept issues to themselves while off duty. The study found that the social support between co-workers significantly buffered the relationship between work-related events and distress.\n\nOther studies have examined the social support systems of single mothers. One study by D'Ercole demonstrated that the effects of social support vary in both form and function and will have drastically different effects depending upon the individual. The study found that supportive relationships with friends and co-workers, rather than task-related support from family, was positively related to the mother's psychological well-being. D'Ercole hypothesizes that friends of a single parent offer a chance to socialize, match experiences, and be part of a network of peers. These types of exchanges may be more spontaneous and less obligatory than those between relatives. Additionally, co-workers can provide a community away from domestic life, relief from family demands, a source of recognition, and feelings of competence. D'Ercole also found an interesting statistical interaction whereby social support from co-workers decreased the experience of stress only in lower income individuals. The author hypothesizes that single women who earn more money are more likely to hold more demanding jobs which require more formal and less dependent relationships. Additionally, those women who earn higher incomes are more likely to be in positions of power, where relationships are more competitive than supportive.\n\nMany studies have been dedicated specifically to understanding the effects of social support in individuals with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In a study by Haden et al., when victims of severe trauma perceived high levels of social support and engaged in interpersonal coping styles, they were less likely to develop severe PTSD when compared to those who perceived lower levels of social support. These results suggest that high levels of social support alleviate the strong positive association between level of injury and severity of PTSD, and thus serves as a powerful protective factor. In general, data shows that the support of family and friends has a positive influence on an individual's ability to cope with trauma. In fact, a meta-analysis by Brewin et al. found that social support was the strongest predictor, accounting for 40%, of variance in PTSD severity. However, perceived social support may be directly affected by the severity of the trauma. In some cases, support decreases with increases in trauma severity.\n\nCollege students have also been the target of various studies on the effects of social support on coping. Reports between 1990 and 2003 showed college stresses were increasing in severity. Studies have also shown that college students' perceptions of social support have shifted from viewing support as stable to viewing them as variable and fluctuating. In the face of such mounting stress, students naturally seek support from family and friends in order to alleviate psychological distress. A study by Chao found a significant two-way correlation between perceived stress and social support, as well as a significant three-way correlation between perceived stress, social support, and dysfunctional coping. The results indicated that high levels of dysfunctional coping deteriorated the association between stress and well-being at both high and low levels of social support, suggesting that dysfunctional coping can deteriorate the positive buffering action of social support on well-being. Students who reported social support were found more likely to engage in less healthy activities, including sedentary behavior, drug and alcohol use, and too much or too little sleep. Lack of social support in college students is also strongly related to life dissatisfaction and suicidal behavior.\n\nSocial support has a clearly demonstrated link to physical health outcomes in individuals, with numerous ties to physical health including mortality. People with low social support are at a much higher risk of death from a variety of diseases (e.g., cancer or cardiovascular disease). Numerous studies have shown that people with higher social support have an increased likelihood for survival.\n\nIndividuals with lower levels of social support have: more cardiovascular disease, more inflammation and less effective immune system functioning, more complications during pregnancy, and more functional disability and pain associated with rheumatoid arthritis, among many other findings. Conversely, higher rates of social support have been associated with numerous positive outcomes, including faster recovery from coronary artery surgery, less susceptibility to herpes attacks, a lowered likelihood to show age-related cognitive decline, and better diabetes control. People with higher social support are also less likely to develop colds and are able to recover faster if they are ill from a cold. There is sufficient evidence linking cardiovascular, neuroendocrine, and immune system function with higher levels of social support. Social support predicts less atherosclerosis and can slow the progression of an already diagnosed cardiovascular disease. There is also a clearly demonstrated link between social support and better immune function, especially in older adults. While links have been shown between neuroendocrine functionality and social support, further understanding is required before specific significant claims can be made. Social support is also hypothesized to be beneficial in the recovery from less severe cancers. Research focuses on breast cancers, but in more serious cancers factors such as severity and spread are difficult to operationalize in the context of impacts of social support. The field of physical health often struggles with the confoundment of variables by external factors that are difficult to control, such as the entangled impact of life events on social support and the buffering impact these events have. There are serious ethical concerns involved with controlling too many factors of social support in individuals, leading to an interesting crossroads in the research.\n\nSocial support is integrated into service delivery schemes and sometimes are a primary service provided by governmental contracted entities (e.g., companionship, peer services, family caregiving). Community services known by the nomenclature community support, and workers by a similar title, Direct Support Professional, have a base in social and community support \"ideology\". All supportive services from supported employment to supported housing, family support, supported education, and supportive living are based upon the relationship between \"informal and formal\" supports, and \"paid and unpaid caregiving\". Inclusion studies, based upon affiliation and friendship, or the conversely, have a similar theoretical basis as do \"person-centered support\" strategies.\n\nSocial support theories are often found in \"real life\" in cultural, music and arts communities, and as might be expected within religious communities. Social support is integral in theories of aging, and the \"social care systems\" have often been challenged (e.g., creativity throughout the lifespan, extra retirement hours). Ed Skarnulis' (state director) adage, \"Support, don't supplant the family\" applies to other forms of social support networks.\n\nAlthough there are many benefits to social support, it is not always beneficial. It has been proposed that in order for social support to be beneficial, the social support desired by the individual has to match the support given to him or her; this is known as the matching hypothesis. \nPsychological stress may increase if a different type of support is provided than what the recipient wishes to receive (e.g., informational is given when emotional support is sought). Additionally, elevated levels of perceived stress can impact the effect of social support on health-related outcomes.\n\nOther costs have been associated with social support. For example, received support has not been linked consistently to either physical or mental health; perhaps surprisingly, received support has sometimes been linked to worse mental health. Additionally, if social support is overly intrusive, it can increase stress. It is important when discussing social support to always consider the possibility that the social support system is actually an antagonistic influence on an individual.\n\nThere are two dominant hypotheses addressing the link between social support and health: the buffering hypothesis and the direct effects hypothesis. The main difference between these two hypotheses is that the direct effects hypothesis predicts that social support is beneficial all the time, while the buffering hypothesis predicts that social support is mostly beneficial during stressful times. Evidence has been found for both hypotheses.\n\nIn the buffering hypothesis, social support protects (or \"buffers\") people from the bad effects of stressful life events (e.g., death of a spouse, job loss). Evidence for stress buffering is found when the correlation between stressful events and poor health is weaker for people with high social support than for people with low social support. The weak correlation between stress and health for people with high social support is often interpreted to mean that social support has protected people from stress. Stress buffering is more likely to be observed for perceived support than for social integration or received support. The theoretical concept or construct of resiliency is associated with coping theories. \n\nIn the direct effects (also called main effects) hypothesis, people with high social support are in better health than people with low social support, regardless of stress. In addition to showing buffering effects, perceived support also shows consistent direct effects for mental health outcomes. Both perceived support and social integration show main effects for physical health outcomes. However, received (enacted) support rarely shows main effects.\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed to explain social support’s link to health. Stress and coping social support theory dominates social support research and is designed to explain the buffering hypothesis described above. According to this theory, social support protects people from the bad health effects of stressful events (i.e., stress buffering) by influencing how people think about and cope with the events. An example in 2018 are the effects of school shootings on the well being and future of children and children's health. According to stress and coping theory, events are stressful insofar as people have negative thoughts about the event (appraisal) and cope ineffectively. Coping consists of deliberate, conscious actions such as problem solving or relaxation. As applied to social support, stress and coping theory suggests that social support promotes adaptive appraisal and coping. Evidence for stress and coping social support theory is found in studies that observe stress buffering effects for perceived social support. One problem with this theory is that, as described previously, stress buffering is not seen for social integration, and that received support is typically not linked to better health outcomes.\n\nRelational regulation theory (RRT) is another theory, which is designed to explain main effects (the direct effects hypothesis) between perceived support and mental health. As mentioned previously, perceived support has been found to have both buffering and direct effects on mental health. RRT was proposed in order to explain perceived support’s main effects on mental health which cannot be explained by the stress and coping theory. RRT hypothesizes that the link between perceived support and mental health comes from people regulating their emotions through ordinary conversations and shared activities rather than through conversations on how to cope with stress. This regulation is relational in that the support providers, conversation topics and activities that help regulate emotion are primarily a matter of personal taste. This is supported by previous work showing that the largest part of perceived support is relational in nature.\n\nLife-span theory is another theory to explain the links of social support and health, which emphasizes the differences between perceived and received support. According to this theory, social support develops throughout the life span, but especially in childhood attachment with parents. Social support develops along with adaptive personality traits such as low hostility, low neuroticism, high optimism, as well as social and coping skills. Together, support and other aspects of personality (\"psychological theories\") influence health largely by promoting health practices (e.g., exercise and weight management) and by preventing health-related stressors (e.g., job loss, divorce). Evidence for life-span theory includes that a portion of perceived support is trait-like, and that perceived support is linked to adaptive personality characteristics and attachment experiences. Lifespan theories are popular from their origins in Schools of Human Ecology at the universities, aligned with family theories, and researched through federal centers over decades (e.g., University of Kansas, Beach Center for Families; Cornell University, School of Human Ecology). \n\nOf the Big Five Personality Traits, agreeableness is associated with people receiving the most social support and having the least-strained relationships at work and home. Receiving support from a supervisor in the workplace is associated with alleviating tensions both at work and at home, as are interdependency and idiocentrism of an employee.\n\nMany studies have tried to identify biopsychosocial pathways for the link between social support and health. Social support has been found to positively impact the immune, neuroendocrine, and cardiovascular systems. Although these systems are listed separately here, evidence has shown that these systems can interact and affect each other.\n\n\nThough many benefits have been found, not all research indicates positive effects of social support on these systems. For example, sometimes the presence of a support figure can lead to increased neuroendocrine and physiological activity.\n\nSocial support groups can be a source of informational support, by providing valuable educational information, and emotional support, including encouragement from people experiencing similar circumstances. Studies have generally found beneficial effects for social support group interventions for various conditions, including Internet support groups. These groups may be termed \"self help\" groups in nation-states, may be offered by non-profit organizations, and in 2018, may be paid for as part of governmental reimbursement schemes.\n\nThere are both costs and benefits to providing support to others. Providing long-term care or support for someone else is a chronic stressor that has been associated with anxiety, depression, alterations in the immune system, and increased mortality. Thus, family caregivers and \"university personnel\" alike have advocated for both respite or relief, and higher payments related to ongoing, long-term caregiving. However, providing support has also been associated with health benefits. In fact, providing instrumental support to friends, relatives, and neighbors, or emotional support to spouses has been linked to a significant decrease in the risk for mortality. Also, a recent neuroimaging study found that giving support to a significant other during a distressful experience increased activation in reward areas of the brain.\n\nIn 1959 Isabel Menzies Lyth identified that threat to a person’s identity in a group where they share similar characteristics develops a defence system inside the group which stems from emotions experienced by members of the group, which are difficult to articulate, cope with and finds solutions to. Together with an external pressure on efficiency a collusive and injunctive system develops that is resistant to change, supports their activities and prohibit others from performing their major tasks.\n\nGender differences have been found in social support research. Women provide more social support to others and are more engaged in their social networks. Evidence has also supported the notion that women may be better providers of social support. In addition to being more involved in the giving of support, women are also more likely to seek out social support to deal with stress, especially from their spouses. However, one study indicates that there are no differences in the extent to which men and women seek appraisal, informational, and instrumental types of support. Rather, the big difference lies in seeking emotional support. Additionally, social support may be more beneficial to women. Shelley Taylor and her colleagues have suggested that these gender differences in social support may stem from the biological difference between men and women in how they respond to stress (i.e., flight or fight versus tend and befriend). Married men are less likely to be depressed compared to non-married men after the presence of a particular stressor because men are able to delegate their emotional burdens to their partner, and women have been shown to be influenced and act more in reaction to social context compared to men. It has been found that men’s behaviors are overall more antisocial, with less regard to the impact their coping may have upon others, and women more prosocial-active with importance stressed on how their coping affects people around them. This may explain why women are more likely to experience negative psychological problems such as depression and anxiety based on how women receive and process stressors. In general, women are likely to find situations more stressful than males are. It is important to note that when the perceived stress level is the same, men and women have much fewer differences in how they seek and use social support.\n\nAlthough social support is thought to be a universal resource, cultural differences exist in social support. In many Asian cultures, the person is seen as more of a collective unit of society, whereas Western cultures are more individualistic and conceptualize social support as a transaction in which one person seeks help from another. In more interdependent Eastern cultures, people are less inclined to enlist the help of others. For example, European Americans have been found to call upon their social relationships for social support more often than Asian Americans or Asians during stressful occasions, and Asian Americans expect social support to be less helpful than European Americans. These differences in social support may be rooted in different cultural ideas about social groups. It is important to note that these differences are stronger in emotional support than instrumental support. Additionally, ethnic differences in social support from family and friends have been found.\n\nCultural differences in coping strategies other than social support also exist. One study shows that Koreans are more likely to report substance abuse than European Americans are. Further, European Americans are more likely to exercise in order to cope than Koreans. Some cultural explanations are that Asians are less likely to seek it from fear of disrupting the harmony of their relationships and that they are more inclined to settle their problems independently and avoid criticism. However, these differences are not found among Asian Americans relative to their Europeans American counterparts.\n\n"}
{"id": "529844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529844", "title": "Story arc", "text": "Story arc\n\nA story arc (also narrative arc) is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television, comic books, comic strips, boardgames, video games, and films with each episode following a dramatic arc. On a television program, for example, the story would unfold over many episodes. In television, the use of the story arc is much more common in comedies, especially in soap operas. In a traditional Hollywood film, the story arc usually follows a three-act format. Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on. Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term \"story arc\" was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series \"Wiseguy\", and was quickly adapted for other uses.\n\nMany American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series. Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised US comics.\nA corollary to the absence of continuity, however, is that, as exemplified in 1950s DC \"Superman\" comics, no permanent change to characters or situations occurs, meaning no growth can take place; thus storylines repeat over time in an endless loop.\n\nThe purpose of a story arc is to move a character or a situation from one state to another; in other words, to effect change. This change or transformation often takes the form of either a tragic fall from grace or a reversal of that pattern. One common form in which this reversal is found is a character going from a situation of weakness to one of strength. For example, a poor woman goes on adventures and in the end makes a fortune for herself, or a lonely man falls in love and marries.\n\nAnother form of storytelling that offers a change or transformation of character is that of \"hero's journey,\" as laid out in Joseph Campbell's theory of the monomyth in his work, \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\". Christopher Vogler's \"\" details the same theory specifically for western storytelling.\n\nStory arcs in contemporary drama often follow the pattern of bringing a character to a low point, removing the structures the character depends upon, and then forcing the character to find new strength without those structures. In a story arc, the character undergoes substantial growth or change, which culminates in the denouement in the last third or quarter of a story.\n\nStory arcs on television (and also on radio) have existed for decades (one notable (albeit, unusual) example, from the so-called \"Golden Age of Radio\", being the 1946 NBC Radio Summer-run docudrama serial, \"The Fifth Horseman\", which (in part) featured a four-episode arc regarding a hypothetical chain of events (spanning nearly two full \"future\" decades) surrounding a fictitious nuclear holocaust), and are common in many countries where multi-episode storylines are the norm (an example being the UK's \"Doctor Who\"), as well as most anime series.\n\nMany arc-based series in past decades, such as \"V\", were often short-lived and found it difficult to attract new viewers; they also rarely appear in traditional syndication (one notable example being the science fiction \"novel for television\" \"Babylon 5\"). However, the rise of DVD retail and DVR of television series has worked in arc-based productions' favor as the standard season collection format allows the viewer to have easy access to the relevant episodes. One area of television where story arcs have always thrived, however, is in the realm of the soap opera, and often episodic series have been derisively referred to as \"soap operas\" when they have adopted story arcs.\n\nArc-based series draw and reward dedicated viewers, and fans of a particular show follow and discuss different story arcs independently from particular episodes. Story arcs are sometimes split into subarcs, if deemed significant by fans, making it easy to refer to certain episodes if their production order titles are unknown. Episodes not relevant to story arcs (such as \"monsters of the week\") are sometimes dismissed as filler by fans, but might be referred to as self-contained or stand-alone episodes by producers.\n\nManga and anime are usually good examples of arc-based stories, to the point that most series shorter than twenty-six chapters are a single arc spanning all the chapters. This makes syndication difficult, as episodes watched in isolation often confuse viewers unless watched in conjunction with the series as a whole. Series of thirty chapters or longer usually have multiple arcs.\n\n\"Neon Genesis Evangelion\", for example, is a single story arc spanning twenty-six episodes. Other longer anime have multiple story arcs, such as \"Bleach\", \"Higurashi no Naku Koro ni\", \"One Piece\", \"Naruto\", \"Yu-Gi-Oh!\" and \"Fairy Tail\". The anime \"Dragon Ball Z\" adapts four different story arcs from the \"Dragon Ball\" manga, each with its own ultimate antagonist, along with original story arcs created for the TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "3950703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3950703", "title": "Tazumal", "text": "Tazumal\n\nTazumal () is a pre-Columbian Maya archeological site in Chalchuapa, El Salvador. Tazumal is an architectural complex within the larger area of the ancient Mesoamerican city of Chalchuapa, in western El Salvador. The Tazumal group is located in the southern portion of the Chalchuapa archaeological zone. Archaeologist Stanley Boggs excavated and restored the Tazumal complex during the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nArchaeological investigations indicate that Tazumal was inhabited from the Classic period through to the Postclassic and that the site had links as far afield as central Mexico, the northern Yucatán Peninsula and lower Central America. Metal artifacts from the complex date to the 8th century AD and are among the earliest metal artifacts reported from Mesoamerica.\n\nTazumal is situated within the municipality of Chalchuapa in the department of Santa Ana, within the Río Paz drainage basin. The ruins are at an altitude of above mean sea level. It is about from the contemporary Maya city of Kaminaljuyu. Tazumal is southwest of the small Late Classic site of Alumulunga.\n\nChalchuapa was inhabited since the Preclassic period, when massive construction activity took place. Around the boundary between the end of the Late Preclassic and the start of the Early Classic, construction at Tazumal was interrupted by the eruption of the Ilopango volcano, some to the east of the city. This eruption caused a hiatus in construction activity at Tazumal that may have lasted several generations. Activity resumed during the Early to Middle Classic (c. AD 250-650) although the city never fully recovered to its Preclassic levels of activity. The Tazumal complex came closest to matching the enormous structures of the Preclassic period.\n\nThe principal structures of the Tazumal group date to the Classic period (c. AD 250-900) of Mesoamerican chronology. By the Late Classic (c. AD 600–900) Tazumal was an important ceremonial complex. Construction activity is evident from the Early Classic through to the Middle Classic (c. AD 400–600). At this time Tazumal had important links with the Maya city of Kaminaljuyu in the Valley of Guatemala, which acted to extend the influence of the powerful central Mexican city of Teotihuacan into the Pacific coastal areas of Guatemala and El Salvador. During the Late Classic Tazumal had links with Copán in Honduras, as evidenced by architecture, sculpture and ceramics at Tazumal. The ceramic sequence at Tazumal continues uninterrupted from the Classic period through to approximately AD 1200. A number of Early Classic features indicate links with Chichen Itza, in the northern Yucatán Peninsula, or with Tula in central Mexico.\n\nThe population of Tazumal coexisted with the Nahua-speaking Pipils from the Classic through to the Early Postclassic until at least AD 1200. The Pipil influence may have been due to trade with neighbouring Pipil populations rather than a direct Pipil presence, judging by the level of evidence.\n\nAfter 1200, Tazumal was largely abandoned, with occupation shifting westwards towards the centre of what is now the modern town of Chalchuapa. Chalchuapa was still occupied at the time of the Spanish conquest, at which time its inhabitants were Poqomam Maya. The Pokomam are believed to have been relatively late settlers in Chalchuapa, postdating the Pipil influence that lasted until 1200.\n\nBetween 1942 and 1944 Stanley Boggs excavated and restored structures B1-1 and B1-2. This restoration included coating the structures with modern cement, which Boggs judged to be sufficiently similar to their original appearance as to justify its use. Boggs' final report was not made generally available and no further archaeological investigations were carried out until the early 21st century. In 1947 Tazumal was declared a National Historic Monument. Until 2001, the Salvadoran 100 colón note carried an illustration of the ruins of Tazumal. In 2004, the side of Structure B1-2 collapsed and the Salvadoran \"Consejo Nacional para la Cultura y el Arte\" (CONCULTURA - National Council for Culture and Art) initiated operations to excavate and stabilise the ruins. During the first decade of the 21st century, two simultaneous archaeological projects were initiated, the investigation of Structure B1-2 by CONCULTURA and the Proyecto Arqueológico de El Salvador (PAES) by the Japanese University of Nagoya.\n\nAll the buildings in the Tazumal complex face west. Tazumal is believed to possess a Mesoamerican ballcourt; this is based upon the external appearance of two unexcavated mounds that are situated in the northwestern portion of the site, within a 20th-century cemetery. One of the mounds is badly damaged. Green obsidian artefacts found at Tazumal indicate links with central Mexico.\n\nStructure B1-1 is the principal structure in the Tazumal group and dominates the complex. The pyramid underwent various phases of construction through the Classic and Early Postclassic periods. Structure B1-1 was built upon a basal platform, called the Great Platform by Boggs, that measures (east-west by north-south). The pyramid was surveyed in 2003–2004. A long platform runs north-south along the western facade of the pyramid and a platform of similar length runs east-west along the north side of the structure. These two side platforms were originally built as separate structures but were later incorporated into the Great Platform; it is presumed by investigators that the temple was radially symmetrical and that further platforms existed on the east and south sides. The remains of a platform measuring were found in roughly the correct position for such a platform on the east side. A test pit sunk into the presumed area of the southern platform uncovered an offering containing a cylindrical ceramic vessel with a polychrome bowl placed upon it like a lid. Within the vessel were two larger pieces of jade and 50 smaller jade fragments, a fragment of seashell and a fragment of snail shell, various pieces of animal bone, mica and traces of red pigment. The offering was covered with a slab of stone. The cylindrical vessel was decorated with two panels, each containing a personage wearing a headdress and performing autosacrifice.\n\nStructure B1-1 is believed to have developed from a central temple and platforms on each side in the cardinal directions, with the west platforms serving as the main approach. As the complex developed, the space between the platforms was filled to form the Great Platform, the earliest version of which measured . The main pyramid B1-1 was then built upon the Great Platform, behind the western platform and covering the original central temple. The Great Platform was remodelled at least three times before it reached its final dimensions.\n\nThe western platform of Structure B1-1 supports a superstructure, which has been called the Temple of the Columns. Because of the westward orientation of all the structures at Tazumal, the Temple of the Columns standing on the west side of the main pyramid may have served as its main facade. This structure had square columns and two identically sized chambers, separated by a space with two columns. The northern chamber had an entrance on the east side, with a possible additional entrance on the south side.\n\nStructure B1-2 dates to the Late Classic. It is located to the southwest of the main pyramid B1-1. It is a west-facing pyramid with three stepped levels standing upon a low basal platform. It was built using the \"talud-tablero\" style of architecture; the pyramid measures and stands approximately tall. In October 2004 the south side of the pyramid collapsed; this is believed to have been caused by a combination of damage caused by the roots of nearby trees and water damage. The restoration of the pyramid with cement in the 1950s had converted the structure into a water trap, while cedar roots had penetrated the building to a height of causing significant cracking.\n\nStructure B1-2 underwent four phases of construction. The earliest phase had a total height of ; the lowest level measured high while the middle and upper levels both measured high. This first phase was completely covered by the second phase of construction, executed in three sub-phases (labelled 2A, 2B and 2C). This was built in a style very similar to that of the first phase, first with the extension of the lower two levels while still using the earlier top level; a new third level was added later, completely covering the previous version. The lower two levels were first raised to high; the middle level was then raised an additional and the upper level was increased to high. Finally, a fourth level was added to the pyramid, bringing its total height to . During the third phase of construction, the structure was increased from four to five levels. The levels varied in height between them, measuring , , , and respectively. The fourth and final construction phase was badly damaged by the collapse of the structure in 2004.\n\nStructure B1-3 and Structure B1-4 are the two structures that comprise the ballcourt. Test pits excavated during the first decade of the 21st century found the mortar floor of an I-shaped ballcourt.\n\nStructure B1-8 is a circular platform dating to the Late Classic period.\n\nSculpture at the site dates as far back as the Preclassic period. Two Terminal Classic to Early Postclassic chacmool sculptures were recovered from Tazumal, as well as a jaguar effigy sculpture and an anthropomorphic sculpture depicting the central Mexican deity Xipe Totec. These artefacts are stylistically similar to artefacts from central Mexico and the northern Yucatán Peninsula. One of the crude chacmool sculptures is housed in the Museo Nacional de Antropología in San Salvador; the other is in private ownership.\n\nThree gold ornaments have been excavated from Tazumal. They were created using the lost wax method and have been tentatively dated to the 8th century AD; their presence indicates contacts with lower Central America. These, together with some contemporary metal artefacts from Copán, are among the earliest reported metal artefacts from Mesoamerica. These items were recovered from a Late Classic tomb and at least one item was a traded artefact from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.\n\nAccording to anecdotal evidence from workers who excavated the area of the presumed eastern platform of B1-1, many burials were found in that area. However, these were not mentioned by Boggs in any of his excavation reports.\n\nBurial 1 was found interred under the ledge joining the first and second levels of Pyramid B1-2. The burial consisted of a lower jaw and the remains of several other bones, accompanied by ceramic fragments and some obsidian artefacts. The dispersed remains indicate that Burial 1 was a secondary burial, possibly that of a human sacrifice associated with the dedication of the final phase of the pyramid. The teeth indicate that the remains were those of a young adult; the associated ceramics date the burial to the Terminal Classic or Early Postclassic.\n\nBurial 2 was found under the western facade of Structure B1-2. Its dating is uncertain but it is believed to be associated with the final phase of construction and contemporaneous with Burial 1. The burial consisted of many bone fragments, including skull, longbones, ribs, jaw and vertebrae. The teeth indicate that the remains were those of a child. The remains were accompanied by ceramic pieces and some ashes. The ashes were subjected to radiocarbon dating, which indicated a date in the Late Classic to Early Postclassic, between AD 770 and 1000.\n"}
{"id": "3520025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3520025", "title": "The American Monomyth", "text": "The American Monomyth\n\nThe American Monomyth is a 1977 book by Robert Jewett and John Shelton Lawrence arguing for the existence and cultural importance of an 'American Monomyth', a variation on the classical monomyth as proposed by Joseph Campbell.\n\nCampbell's monomyth describes a hero's journey: a hero ventures from the normal world into a supernatural one, winning a decisive victory there and returning with a 'boon'. In contrast, Jewett and Lawrence define the American monomyth as:\n\n\"A community in a harmonious paradise is threatened by evil; normal institutions fail to contend with this threat; a selfless superhero emerges to renounce temptations and carry out the redemptive task; aided by fate, his decisive victory restores the community to its paradisiacal condition; the superhero then recedes into obscurity.\"\n\nIn their 2002 book \"The Myth of the American Superhero\" (with Lawrence as first author) and their 2003 book \"Captain America And The Crusade Against Evil: The Dilemma Of Zealous Nationalism\" (with Jewett as first author), the authors extend the thesis by using examples from both American popular culture and the American religious tradition.\n\n\"The American Monomyth\" posits a level of cultural belief in American society that helps to explain the desire in American government to \"save\" the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9413244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9413244", "title": "The Doctor (painting)", "text": "The Doctor (painting)\n\nThe Doctor is an 1891 painting by Luke Fildes that depicts a Victorian doctor observing the critical stage in a child's illness while the parents gaze on helplessly from the periphery. It has been used to portray the values of the ideal physician and the inadequacies of the medical profession. Different theories exist as to the painting's origin but it is most likely based upon Fildes' own experience of the death of his son. Critics have noted that Fildes omitted common medical equipment of his era in order to focus on the relationship between physician and patient.\n\nThe painting was commissioned by Henry Tate in 1890 as a work of \"social realism\" on a topic of Fildes' choosing to be displayed in the National Gallery of British Art, now known as the Tate Gallery London. Fildes was paid £3,000 for the work, a sum he felt was too small for such a painting and less than he expected for painting portraits. Two Victorian doctors, Dr Thomas Buzzard (neurologist) and Dr Gustavus Murray (obstetrician), have been particularly associated with the painting, as has the genre of the period in which it was painted. Fildes had the particular desire \"to put on record the status of the doctor in our time\".\n\nDifferent theories exist as to the origins of the painting.\n\nThe most important personal influence was probably the death of Fildes' first child, his one-year-old son, Philip, from typhoid fever on Christmas morning, 1877. Fildes' biographer has described how the boy's death compelled Fildes to paint a picture revolving around the compassionate Dr Murray visiting his dying child. The story was confirmed later by Fildes' second son, who described this as Fildes' \"quickest painted of his 'big' pictures\".\nDocumentation of Fildes' work with the homeless reveals that a child was once brought into the studio by a labourer, a scenario which prompted the painting \"The Widower\" (1876). This painting included many features later seen in \"The Doctor\".\n\nFildes most likely modelled the characters in the painting on his own family and himself. Observing photographs of himself, Fildes guided his models, who were frequently his friends. His daughter was likely the prototype of the sick child, and a professional model was used for the mother. The child's resting hand and extended arm may have been drawn from Fildes' older son. Despite reports that doctors visited Fildes in the hope of being used as models, the final painting of the doctor resembles Fildes himself.\n\nPaying tribute to his family origins in the fishing industry, Fildes adds a fishing net hanging from the ceiling. His father was a mariner and shipping agent.\n\nThe cottage setting has led some to believe that the painting was ordered by Queen Victoria to honour her own physician, Sir James Clark. This alternative account also originates in the story about her physician being sent to Balmoral to care for the sick child of a servant.\n\n18th and 19th century concerns by society of the rise of scientific medicine also could have possibly influenced the format of the painting.\n\nThe painting was first exhibited in 1891. Prior to completion, a number of sketches were made which are preserved at the Tate Gallery and depict various alternative compositions such as the doctor being on the right side of the canvas, the child seated rather than lying down, and different facial expressions for the doctor. Fildes built a model cottage to copy after visiting numerous cottages in north-east Scotland, ensuring that the picture included authentic detail of roof rafters, tablecloth, lampshade, and lighting. Particular attention was paid to ensuring the room had a poor, Victorian, multi-purpose appearance.\n\nThe focus of the picture is the worried but sympathetic physician and the sick child, with everything else in the shadows. The child had experienced a 'crisis', the critical stage of a potentially life-threatening illness. The ' dawn' light through the window, represents recovery and hope as the child survived the night.\n\nThe concentrated focus of the doctor on the child shows the patient as a person and individual and the doctor as a compassionate carer with empathy for the patient's suffering. In 2002, Douglas wrote in the \"British Medical Journal\", \"So his manner is all, and Fildes captures it forever: the furrowed brow; the hand propping the firm bearded chin; the calm, concerned authority\".\n\nThe parents are insignificant, helpless, and not central to the picture. A dominating male father gives support to his weaker female wife by extending his arm and resting his hand on her shoulder. She appears to be crying and possibly praying. He, however, is also helpless and peers on at the doctor and child.\n\nThe artificial light from the lamp on the table and the natural rising sunlight beginning to shine through the single window suggest that the doctor has been in attendance all night. A distressed, poor, and modest family is depicted by one small carpet and the washing suspended in a small room. Two mismatched chairs, pressed together, construct a makeshift bed in the labourer's cottage. A couple of scrunched up papers lie on the floor, \"most probably a filled prescription\" which has been frustratingly discarded. An easily missed medicine bottle is placed in the shadow of the lamp and in close proximity to the doctor and his control, not the parents'.\n\nFildes stated that his choice of subject was \"to put on record the status of the doctor in our own time\", but his depiction of 19th-century healthcare is not entirely accurate. There is no stethoscope, microscope, sphygmomanometer, or thermometer in the picture, well-known instruments of physicians in the late 19th century which saved time. It may be that these instruments were omitted in order to show the doctors' \"professional and personal commitment\". Fildes does include a pestle and mortar, and a cup and a spoon, equipment used before the scientific era of medicine.\n\nIt has also been pointed out that it was unlikely that a Victorian physician would make an overnight home visit to a poor family, such services being available only to the middle class and the wealthy.\n\nThe painting caught the public's attention and toured Britain. Received with a striking admiration, there is one report of an observer who, overwhelmed at the painting, died on the spot. The work is considered one of the most famous depictions of the practice of medicine and has been described as \"iconic\". It epitomises an idyllic kind of medicine and has often been used to illustrate the virtues of a good doctor and the inadequacies of the medical profession.\n\nSubsequently, the painting received comments including this by surgeon W. Mitchell Banks: \"What do we not owe to Mr. Fildes for showing to the world the typical doctor as we would all like him to be shown – an honest man and a gentle man, doing his best to relieve suffering?\" He continued: \"A library of books written in your honour would not do what this picture has done and will do for the medical profession in making the hearts of our fellow men warm to us with confidence and affection\".\n\nSeen today as \"Victorian spin\" by some, in its time the depiction of the doctor as a hero serving the poor raised the status of the medical profession during a period when public opinion was critical of the increasingly impersonal nature of medicine.\n\nThe painting has inspired poetry and film. In 1911 it featured in a \"Punch\" cartoon commenting satirically on the effect of the National Insurance Act 1911 on doctors. In 1933, the American artist Joseph Tomanek painted a version of the painting making small changes to the composition. In 1947 it was reproduced on a United States postage stamp for the centenary of the American Medical Association, which in 1949 used it in their campaign against nationalised medical care as proposed by President Harry S. Truman. The image was printed on 65,000 posters and brochures with the slogan, \"Keep Politics Out of this Picture\". This has been described as contributing to public distrust of nationalised medical care in the United States. By contrast, in Britain it was used as the emblem for a celebration of Britain's National Health Service.\n\nIn 1933, a sculpture of the scene in the painting was made using the \"life-size, life-like, new art form\" of sculpticolor and displayed at the Petrolagar laxative exhibit in the Hall of Science at the Chicago Century of Progress exhibition. It was cast from a model made by the sculptor John Paulding and then painted by Rudolph F. Ingerle, the entire work measuring in length, in height, and in depth. Publicity stated that \"\"The Doctor\" impressively emphasizes the ideal relationship between physician and patient - 'The Human Touch'\".\n\nAs late as 1951, the painting was used in advertising for Wyeth pharmaceuticals, which repeated the story that Queen Victoria commissioned it, adding: \"the pictured child recovered despite the inadequacies of her humble home–a tribute to her doctor's genius and to the progress of medical science\".\n\nSince the mid-1990s, the medical humanities journals \"The Lancet\" and the \"British Medical Journal\" have revived interest in the painting, stimulating discussion about the role of the doctor. Debate on the role and status of doctors has led to the inclusion of medical humanities in medical schools, where this painting has been used as a teaching aid for medical students.\n\nThe reason for the painting's popularity has been much debated. The universal sentiment associated with a doctor tending to a sick child appears simple. Ultimately, it is likely that \"The Doctor\" was hailed as iconic due to the wish to be cared for with single-minded attentiveness.\n"}
{"id": "28383361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28383361", "title": "The Eclipse (James Fenimore Cooper)", "text": "The Eclipse (James Fenimore Cooper)\n\nThe Eclipse is an autobiographical vignette by James Fenimore Cooper that was written between 1833 and 1838, recounting his own experience witnessing a total solar eclipse in Cooperstown on the morning of June 16, 1806. It was published posthumously in the September 1869 issue of \"Putnam's Monthly Magazine\". Susan Fenimore Cooper, the author's daughter, found it among his papers.\n\n\"The Eclipse\" by James Fenimore Cooper, at Cornell University Library \n"}
{"id": "33729175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33729175", "title": "The Mercury Wonder Show", "text": "The Mercury Wonder Show\n\nThe Mercury Wonder Show for Service Men was a 1943 magic-and-variety stage show by the Mercury Theatre, produced by Orson Welles and Joseph Cotten as a morale-boosting entertainment for US soldiers in World War II. Directed by Welles, the show starred Welles (\"Orson the Magnificent\"), Cotten (\"Jo-Jo the Great\"), Agnes Moorehead (\"Calliope Aggie\") and Rita Hayworth, whose part was later filled by Marlene Dietrich. Jean Gabin also worked on the show backstage, as a propman. The show ran to 150 minutes.\n\nIn early 1943, the two concurrent radio series (\"Ceiling Unlimited\", \"Hello Americans\") that Orson Welles created for CBS to support the war effort had ended. Filming also had wrapped on \"Jane Eyre\" and that fee, in addition to the income from his regular guest-star roles in radio, made it possible for Welles to fulfill a lifelong dream. He approached the War Assistance League of Southern California and proposed a show that evolved into a big-top spectacle, part circus and part magic show. He offered his services as magician and director, and invested some $40,000 of his own money in an extravaganza he called \"The Mercury Wonder Show for Service Men\". Members of the U.S. armed forces were admitted free of charge, while the general public had to pay. The show entertained more than 1,000 service members each night, and proceeds went to the War Assistance League, a charity for military service personnel.\n\n\"It was just like a circus — I would have adored it if I'd been a member of the audience, I know that,\" Welles later told filmmaker Peter Bogdanovich.\n\nThe development of the show coincided with the resolution of Welles's draft status in May 1943, when he was finally declared 4-F — unfit for military service — for a variety of medical reasons. \"I felt guilty about the war,\" Welles told biographer Barbara Leaming. \"I was guilt-ridden about my civilian status.\" He had been publicly hounded about his patriotism since \"Citizen Kane\", when the Hearst press began persistent inquiries about why Welles had not been drafted.\n\nWelles's fascination with illusion dated back to childhood; Harry Houdini gave him his first lessons in magic. His 1941 debut at the California State Fair (assisted by Dolores del Río) was a hit and, as \"The Ace\", he continued practicing his performance skills at vaudeville theaters and army camps. By 1943 Welles had developed a two-hour magic show.\n\nThe show's name was a nod to Howard Thurston's \"The Wonder Show of the Universe\". Welles adapted at least five of Thurston's illusions for his own show, and adopted his use of showgirls as stage extras.\n\nFor \"The Mercury Wonder Show\", Welles selected Rita Hayworth, one of the most popular women in motion pictures, as his chief assistant. In April 1943 he began teaching illusions to Hayworth, who was then living with him. The couple practiced the Houdini Substitution Trunk routine in the 125-seat private theater of Bill Larsen, a successful Los Angeles attorney and magician who operated Thayer's Studio of Magic.\n\nOther cast included co-producer Joseph Cotten and, in his stage debut as comedy assistant, Welles's chauffeur, George (Shorty) Chirello. Welles hired Keye Luke — an accomplished visual artist as well as an actor — to design culturally authentic scenery and graphics, in contrast to the fake-Oriental visuals typically seen in Western magic shows.\n\nThe show was rehearsed for 17 weeks. Welles leased the Playtime Theatre (later the Las Palmas Theatre), a 350-seat house in Hollywood. Welles initially planned a moderate-sized magic show, open only to service members, that would run six weeks at the theatre and then tour army camps. Welles and the cast rehearsed from 7 p.m. until 2 or 3 a.m.; back home, Welles would spend the rest of the night improving the magic act and working out new bits of business. He tested 18 different openings before he was satisfied.\n\nPreviews began in June. As the show came together Welles began calling it \"the biggest magic show on earth\", and the cast and crew grew to 31 people. Welles bought or commissioned $26,000 worth of props and put $14,000 into the tent, scenery, costumes and rental of circus equipment. He also rented an entire menagerie, from a canary to a lion. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer donated the venue, a lot near the Hollywood Canteen on Cahuenga Boulevard.\n\n\"The Mercury Wonder Show\" ran August 3–September 9, 1943, in an 80-by-120-foot tent located at 9000 Cahuenga Boulevard, in the heart of Hollywood. The brand-new, two-pole Big Top offered 1,100 bleacher seats — all of them free — to service members. In the center were 400 folding chairs for the public, with tickets priced at $1.65 to $5.50 for adults and 55 cents for children. For opening night only, the public seats were $5.50 and $11. Charity-minded Hollywood celebrities could pay $30 (the equivalent of $ today) for one of the 25 to 30 seats in the sucker section; it cost $50 or $100 for one of the two super-sucker seats nailed down directly behind the massive tent poles. Welles recalled subjecting this highest-paying public — \"usually Sam Goldwyn or Jack Warner or somebody like that\" — to humiliations that included having eggs broken over their heads. \"And they had to pretend it was all good fun, because our boys in khaki were there, you know. We really gave it to them.\"\n\nAfter performing in the official premiere August 3, Rita Hayworth was thereafter forbidden to appear in \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" by Columbia boss Harry Cohn. When her lawyer confirmed that Hayworth could indeed be sued for breach of contract — filming was then under way for \"Cover Girl\" — Welles persuaded her not to jeopardize her entire career by going on anyway, as she vowed to do. He phoned his friend Marlene Dietrich and asked her to fill in. \"Come teach me the tricks and I do it,\" Dietrich replied. \"She was the good soldier of all time,\" Welles said.\n\nAt intermission September 7, 1943, KMPC radio interviewed audience and cast members of \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" — including Welles and Hayworth, who were married earlier that day. Welles remarked that \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" had been performed for approximately 48,000 members of the U.S. armed forces.\n\nLooking back on the experience 30 years later, Welles said the show was primarily made \"for fun\", but that \"it's one of our great works\" and that the Mercury Theatre were \"as proud of that as anything we ever did.\"\n\nA reduced version toured army bases around the U.S. Several episodes of the 1944 CBS Radio show \"The Orson Welles Almanac\" that were performed live before audiences of servicemen were also called the Mercury Wonder Show.\n\nWelles wrote, directed and performed in a plug for \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" that ran in \"Look\" magazine November 16, 1943. In \"The Trunk Murder\", the magician solves the double murder of Joseph Cotten and showgirl assistant Eleanor Counts. George (Shorty) Chirello, Death Valley Mack, Merry Hamilton and Tommy Hanlon Jr. appear in the five-photo crime puzzle. \"Don't be embarrassed if you can't work it,\" readers are advised, \"since [Welles] admits he has never yet solved a LOOK \"Photocrime\".\"\n\nA portion of the stage show was filmed and included in the 1944 variety film, \"Follow the Boys\". The film segment was directed by Welles, uncredited.\n\nWelles and Dietrich agreed to appear in the film while \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" was still running. The seven-minute segment was shot on the Universal lot in late September 1943. Welles traded his robe and fez for white tie and tails, and brought along a crew from the show — Shorty Chirello, Tommy Hanlon, Professor Bill and his Circus Symphony, Death Valley Mack, two female assistants and eight chorus girls. Welles performed a few illusions; his own appearance on stage and the comic version of the sawing-a-woman-in-half illusion featuring Dietrich were achieved with trick photography. Welles received $30,000 for his part in the film. The segment was to be shot in four or five days, but Welles stretched filming to 16 days to give additional pay to his crew.\n\nA framed copy of the playbill for \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" was sold at auction October 31, 2002, for $1,610. In an auction April 26, 2014, the advertising herald was sold for $1,062.50; the item was among those found in boxes and trunks of Welles's personal possessions by his daughter Beatrice Welles.\n\nA scrapbook kept by George (Shorty) Chirello was offered as part of the \"TCM Presents … There's No Place Like Hollywood\" auction November 24, 2014, at Bonhams in New York. Chirello worked for Welles from about 1942 to 1952; his scrapbook begins in August 1943 with clippings about \"The Mercury Wonder Show\", and includes a copy of the playbill. Chirello managed props for the show, and acted as Welles's comedy assistant on stage and in the film \"Follow the Boys\". The scrapbook and a directors chair inscribed \"Orson Welles\" were sold as a single lot and brought $13,750 at auction.\n\n"}
{"id": "27866702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27866702", "title": "The Silmarillion", "text": "The Silmarillion\n\nThe Silmarillion is a collection of mythopoeic works by English writer J. R. R. Tolkien, edited and published posthumously by his son, Christopher Tolkien, in 1977, with assistance from Guy Gavriel Kay. \"The Silmarillion\", along with J. R. R. Tolkien's other works, forms an extensive, though incomplete, narrative that describes the universe of Eä in which are found the lands of Valinor, Beleriand, Númenor, and Middle-earth, within which \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\" take place.\n\nAfter the success of \"The Hobbit\", Tolkien's publisher requested a sequel. Tolkien sent them an early draft of \"The Silmarillion\" but they rejected the work as being obscure and \"too Celtic\". The result was that Tolkien began work on \"A Long Expected Party\", the first chapter of what he described at the time as \"a new story about Hobbits\", which became \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\n\"The Silmarillion\" comprises five parts. The first part, \"Ainulindalë\", tells of the creation of Eä, the \"world that \"is\"\". \"Valaquenta\", the second part, gives a description of the Valar and Maiar, the supernatural powers in Eä. The next section, \"Quenta Silmarillion\", which forms the bulk of the collection, chronicles the history of the events before and during the First Age, including the wars over the Silmarils that gave the book its title. The fourth part, \"Akallabêth\", relates the history of the Downfall of Númenor and its people, which takes place in the Second Age. The final part, \"Of the Rings of Power and the Third Age\", is a brief account of the circumstances which led to and were presented in \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nThe five parts were initially separate works, but it was the elder Tolkien's express wish that they be published together. Because J. R. R. Tolkien died before he finished revising the various legends, Christopher gathered material from his father's older writings to fill out the book. In a few cases, this meant that he had to devise completely new material in order to resolve gaps and inconsistencies in the narrative.\n\n\"The Silmarillion\", like Tolkien's other Middle-earth writings, was meant to have taken place at some time in Earth's past. In keeping with this idea, \"The Silmarillion\" is meant to have been translated from Bilbo's three-volume \"Translations from the Elvish\", which he wrote while at Rivendell.\n\nChapters in the book include:\n\nThe inside title page contains an inscription written in Tengwar. In the common script, it reads \"The tales of the First Age when Morgoth dwelt in Middle-earth and the Elves made war upon him for the recovery of the Silmarils to which are appended the downfall of Númenor and the history of the Rings of Power and the Third Age in which these tales come to their end.\"\n\nThe first section of \"The Silmarillion\", \"Ainulindalë\" (\"The Music of the Ainur\"), takes the form of a primary creation narrative. Eru (\"The One\"), also called Ilúvatar (\"Father of All\"), first created the Ainur, a group of eternal spirits or demiurges, called \"the offspring of his thought\". Ilúvatar brought the Ainur together and showed them a theme, from which he bade them make a great music. Melkor – whom Ilúvatar had given the \"greatest power and knowledge\" of all the Ainur – broke from the harmony of the music to develop his own song. Some Ainur joined him, while others continued to follow Ilúvatar, causing discord in the music. This happened thrice, with Eru Ilúvatar successfully overpowering his rebellious subordinate with a new theme each time. Ilúvatar then stopped the music and showed them a vision of Arda and its peoples. The vision disappeared after a while, and Ilúvatar offered the Ainur a chance to enter into Arda and govern over the new world.\n\nMany Ainur descended, taking physical form and becoming bound to that world. The greater Ainur became known as the Valar, while the lesser Ainur were called the Maiar. The Valar attempted to prepare the world for the coming inhabitants (Elves and Men), while Melkor, who wanted Arda for himself, repeatedly destroyed their work; this went on for thousands of years until, through waves of destruction and creation, the world took shape.\n\n\"Valaquenta\" (\"Account of the Valar\") describes Melkor and each of the 14 Valar in detail, as well as a few of the Maiar. It also reveals how Melkor seduced many Maiar – including those who would eventually become Sauron and the Balrogs – into his service.\n\n\"Quenta Silmarillion\" (\"The History of the Silmarils\"), which makes up the bulk of the book, is a series of interconnected tales set in the First Age that make up the tragic saga of the three jewels, the Silmarils.\n\nThe Valar had attempted to fashion the world for Elves and Men, but Melkor continually destroyed their handiwork. After he destroyed the two lamps that illuminated the world, the Valar moved to Aman, a continent to the west of Middle-earth, where they established their home called Valinor. Yavanna created Two Trees that illuminated Valinor and left Middle-earth to darkness and Melkor. Soon after, stars created by Varda began to shine and the Elves awoke. The elves originally formed three groups: the Vanyar, the Noldor, and the Teleri, though some elves were captured and enslaved by Melkor, eventually to be bred into orcs. Knowing the danger the Elves were in, the Valar decided to fight Melkor to keep the Elves safe. After defeating and capturing Melkor, they invited the Elves to live in Aman. Many Elves travelled to Aman, while others refused and still others stopped along the way, including the Elves who later became the Sindar, ruled by the Elf King Thingol and Melian, a Maia. Of the three tribes that set out, all of the Vanyar and Noldor, and many of the Teleri reached Aman.\n\nIn Aman, Fëanor, son of Finwë, King of the Noldor, created the Silmarils, jewels that glowed with the light of the Two Trees. Melkor, who had been held in captivity by the Valar, was eventually released after feigning repentance. Upon release, Melkor deceived Fëanor into believing that his eldest half-brother Fingolfin was attempting a coup against Finwë. This rift led to the banishment of Fëanor from the Noldor city Tirion, and Fëanor thereafter created the fortress Formenos to the North of Tirion. Finwë moved to Formenos to live with Fëanor, his favourite of three sons, and there they safely kept the Silmarils. After many years, Fëanor travelled to Tirion to make amends with Fingolfin, while Finwë stayed at Formenos. While making amends, Melkor destroyed the Two Trees with the help of Ungoliant, a dark spider spirit Melkor found in Avathar, on the Southeast side of Aman. Together, Melkor and Ungoliant then escaped to Formenos, killed Finwë, stole the Silmarils, and fled to Middle-earth. Melkor kept the Silmarils and banished Ungoliant, later attacking the Elvish kingdom of Doriath, ruled by the Elf King Thingol and his wife Melian. He was defeated in the first of five battles of Beleriand, however, and barricaded himself in his northern fortress of Angband.\n\nFëanor and his sons swore an oath of vengeance against Melkor – and against anyone who withheld the Silmarils from them, even the Valar. Fëanor persuaded most of the Noldor to pursue Melkor, whom Fëanor renamed as Morgoth, into Middle-earth. Fëanor's sons seized ships from the Teleri, attacking and killing many of them, and left the other Noldor to make the voyage by foot. Upon arriving in Middle-earth, the Noldor under Fëanor attacked Melkor and defeated his host, though Fëanor was slain by Balrogs. After a period of peace, Melkor attacked the Noldor but was again defeated and besieged. Nearly 400 years later, he broke the siege and drove the Noldor back.\n\nAfter the destruction of the Trees and the theft of the Silmarils, the Valar created the moon and the sun. At the same time, Men awoke, some of whom later arrived in Beleriand and allied themselves with the Elves. Beren, a man who had survived the latest battle, wandered to Doriath, where he fell in love with the elf Lúthien, the king's daughter. The king sought to prevent their marriage by imposing what he believed an impossible task: retrieving one of the Silmarils from Melkor. But together, Beren and Lúthien embarked on this quest. Sauron, a powerful servant of Melkor, imprisoned Beren along the way; but with Lúthien's help he escaped, crept into Melkor's fortress, and stole a Silmaril from Melkor's crown. Having achieved the task, the first union of man and elf was formed, though Beren was soon mortally wounded and Lúthien also died of grief. However she convinced the Vala Mandos to revive Beren and herself, choosing to sacrifice her immortality in favour of a mortal life with her beloved.\n\nThe Noldor, seeing that a mortal and an elf-woman could infiltrate Angband, perceived that Melkor was not invincible. They attacked again with a great army of Elves, Dwarves and Men. But they were deceived by Melkor, who had secretly darkened the hearts of many of the men. Thus it was that the Elvish host were utterly defeated, due in part to the treachery of some Men. However, many Men remained loyal to the Elves and were honoured thereafter.\n\nNone received more honour than the brothers Húrin and Huor. Huor died in battle, but Melkor captured Húrin, and cursed him to watch the downfall of his kin. Húrin's son, Túrin Turambar, was sent to Doriath, leaving his mother and unborn sister behind in his father's kingdom (which had been overrun by the enemy). Túrin achieved many great deeds of valour, the greatest being the defeat of the dragon Glaurung. Despite his heroism, however, Túrin was plagued by the curse of Melkor, which led him unwittingly to murder his friend Beleg and to marry and impregnate his sister Nienor, whom he had never met before, and who had lost her memory through Glaurung's enchantment. Before their child was born, the bewitchment was lifted as the dragon lay dying. Nienor, realizing what grew within her, took her own life. Upon learning the truth, Túrin threw himself on his sword.\n\nHuor's son, Tuor, became involved in the fate of the hidden Noldorin kingdom of Gondolin. He married the elf Idril, daughter of Turgon, Lord of Gondolin (the second union between Elves and Men). When Gondolin fell, betrayed from within by Maeglin, Tuor saved many of its inhabitants from destruction. All of the Elvish kingdoms in Beleriand eventually fell, and the refugees fled to a haven by the sea created by Tuor. The son of Tuor and Idril, Eärendil the Half-elven, was betrothed to Elwing, herself descended from Beren and Lúthien. Elwing brought Eärendil the Silmaril of Beren and Lúthien, and using its light Eärendil travelled across the sea to Aman to seek help from the Valar. The Valar obliged; they attacked and defeated Melkor, completely destroying his fortress Angband and sinking most of Beleriand; and they expelled Melkor from Arda. This ended the First Age of Middle-earth. The last two Silmarils were taken by Fëanor's surviving sons Maedhros and Maglor. However, Maedhros killed himself by leaping into a fiery chasm with a Silmaril while Maglor threw his into the sea and spent the rest of his days wandering along the shores of the world, singing his grief.\n\nEärendil and Elwing had two children: Elrond and Elros. As descendants of immortal elves and mortal men, they were given the choice of which lineage to belong to: Elrond chose to belong to the Elves, his brother to Men. Elros became the first king of Númenor and lived to 500 years old, being given an extended life in return for choosing to be a Man.\n\n\"Akallabêth\" (\"The Downfallen\") comprises about 30 pages, and recounts the rise and fall of the island kingdom of Númenor, inhabited by the Dúnedain. After the defeat of Melkor, the Valar gave the island to the three loyal houses of Men who had aided the Elves in the war against him. Through the favour of the Valar, the Dúnedain were granted wisdom and power and life more enduring than any other of mortal race had possessed, making them comparable to the High-Elves of Aman. Indeed, the isle of Númenor lay closer to Aman than to Middle-earth. But their power lay in their bliss and their acceptance of mortality. The fall of Númenor came about in large measure through the influence of the corrupted Maia Sauron (the chief servant of Melkor), who arose during the Second Age and tried to conquer Middle-earth.\n\nThe Númenóreans moved against Sauron, who saw that he could not defeat them by force and allowed himself to be taken as a prisoner to Númenor. There he quickly enthralled the king, Ar-Pharazôn, urging him to seek out the immortality that the Valar had apparently denied him, thus nurturing the seeds of envy that the Númenóreans had begun to hold against the Elves of the West and the Valar. So it was that all the knowledge and power of Númenor was turned towards seeking an avoidance of death; but this only weakened them and sped the gradual waning of the lifespans to something more similar to that of other Men. Sauron urged them to wage war against the Valar themselves to win immortality, and to worship his master Melkor, whom he said could grant them their wish. Ar-Pharazôn created the mightiest army and fleet Númenor had seen, and sailed against Aman. The Valar and Elves of Aman, stricken with grief over their betrayal, called on Ilúvatar for help. When Ar-Pharazôn landed, Ilúvatar destroyed his fleet and drowned Númenor itself as punishment for the rebellion against the rightful rule of the Valar. Ilúvatar created a great wave, such as had never before been seen, which utterly destroyed and submerged the isle of Númenor, killing all but those Dúnedain who had already sailed east, and changing the shape of all the lands of Middle-earth.\n\nSauron's physical manifestation was also destroyed in the ruin of Númenor, but as a Maia, his spirit returned to Middle-earth, no longer able to take upon himself the fair form he once had. Some Númenóreans who had remained loyal to the Valar were spared and were washed up on the shores of Middle-earth. Among these survivors were Elendil their leader, a descendant of Elros, and his two sons Isildur and Anárion who had also saved a seedling from Númenor's white tree, the ancestor of that of Gondor. They founded the Númenórean Kingdoms in Exile: Arnor in the north and Gondor in the south. Elendil reigned as High-king of both kingdoms, but committed the rule of Gondor jointly to Isildur and Anárion. The power of the kingdoms in exile was greatly diminished from that of Númenor, \"yet very great it seemed to the wild men of Middle-earth\".\n\nAt the end, it is mentioned that the sunken Númenor came to be called \"Atalantë\", a name not used when it existed. This led many readers to the conclusion that Númenor is Atlantis; this direct link was, however, denied by Tolkien himself, who asserted that it's a natural word following the constructs of Quenya.\n\nThe concluding section of the book, comprising about 20 pages, describes the events that take place in Middle-earth during the Second and Third Ages. In the Second Age, Sauron emerged as the main power in Middle-earth, and the Rings of Power were forged by Elves led by Celebrimbor. Sauron secretly forged his own ring to control the others, which led to war between the peoples of Middle-earth and Sauron, culminating in the War of the Last Alliance, in which Elves and the remaining Númenóreans united to defeat Sauron, bringing the Second Age to an end. The Third Age began with the passing of the One Ring to Isildur, who was ambushed at the Gladden Fields shortly afterwards, and lost the ring in the River Anduin. This section also gives a brief overview of the events leading up to and taking place in \"The Lord of the Rings\", including the waning of Gondor, the re-emergence of Sauron, the White Council, Saruman's treachery, and Sauron's final destruction along with the One Ring, after which the ages of magic end.\n\nTolkien first began working on the stories that would become \"The Silmarillion\" in 1914, intending them to become an English mythology that would explain the origins of English history and culture. Much of this early work was written while Tolkien, then a British officer returned from France during World War I, was in hospital and on sick leave. He completed the first story, \"The Fall of Gondolin\", in late 1916.\n\nHe called his collection of nascent stories \"The Book of Lost Tales\". This became the name for the first two volumes of \"The History of Middle-earth\", which include these early texts. The stories employ the narrative device of a mariner named Eriol (in later versions, an Anglo-Saxon named Ælfwine) who finds the island of Tol Eressëa, where the Elves live; and the Elves tell him their history. However, Tolkien never completed \"The Book of Lost Tales\"; he left it to compose the poems \"The Lay of Leithian\" and \"The Lay of the Children of Húrin\".\n\nThe first complete version of \"The Silmarillion\" was the \"Sketch of the Mythology\" written in 1926 (later published in Volume IV of \"The History of Middle-earth\"). The \"Sketch\" was a 28-page synopsis written to explain the background of the story of Túrin to R. W. Reynolds, a friend to whom Tolkien had sent several of the stories. From the \"Sketch\" Tolkien developed a fuller narrative version of \"The Silmarillion\" called \"Quenta Noldorinwa\" (also included in Volume IV). The \"Quenta Noldorinwa\" was the last version of \"The Silmarillion\" that Tolkien completed.\n\nIn 1937, encouraged by the success of \"The Hobbit\", Tolkien submitted to his publisher George Allen & Unwin an incomplete but more fully developed version of \"The Silmarillion\" called \"Quenta Silmarillion\", but they rejected the work as being obscure and \"too Celtic\". The publisher instead asked Tolkien to write a sequel to \"The Hobbit\". Tolkien began to revise \"The Silmarillion\", but soon turned to the sequel, which became \"The Lord of the Rings\". He renewed work on \"The Silmarillion\" after completing \"The Lord of the Rings\", and he greatly desired to publish the two works together. But when it became clear that would not be possible, Tolkien turned his full attention to preparing \"The Lord of the Rings\" for publication.\n\nIn the late 1950s Tolkien returned to \"The Silmarillion\", but much of his writing from this time was concerned more with the theological and philosophical underpinnings of the work than with the narratives themselves. By this time, he had doubts about fundamental aspects of the work that went back to the earliest versions of the stories, and it seems that he felt the need to resolve these problems before he could produce the \"final\" version of \"The Silmarillion\". During this time he wrote extensively on such topics as the nature of evil in Arda, the origin of Orcs, the customs of the Elves, the nature and means of Elvish rebirth, and the \"flat\" world and the story of the Sun and Moon. In any event, with one or two exceptions, he wrought little change to the narratives during the remaining years of his life.\n\nFor several years after his father's death, Christopher Tolkien compiled a \"Silmarillion\" narrative. Christopher's intentions seem to have been mostly to use the latest writings of his father's that he could, and to keep as much internal consistency (and consistency with \"The Lord of the Rings\") as possible, though he admitted that a complete consistency was impossible. As explained in \"The History of Middle-earth\", Christopher drew upon numerous sources for his narrative, relying on post-Lord of the Rings works where possible, but ultimately reaching back as far as the 1917 \"Book of Lost Tales\" to fill in portions of the narrative which his father had planned to write but never addressed. In one later chapter of \"Quenta Silmarillion\", \"Of the Ruin of Doriath\", which had not been touched since the early 1930s, he had to construct a narrative practically from scratch. The final result, which included genealogies, maps, an index, and the first-ever released Elvish word list, was published in 1977.\nBecause of Christopher's extensive explanations (in \"The History of Middle-earth\") of how he compiled the published work, much of \"The Silmarillion\" has been debated by readers. Christopher's task is generally accepted as very difficult given the state of his father's texts at the time of his death: some critical texts were no longer in the Tolkien family's possession, and Christopher's task compelled him to rush through much of the material. Christopher reveals in later volumes of \"The History of Middle-earth\" many divergent ideas which do not agree with the published version. Christopher Tolkien has suggested that, had he taken more time and had access to all the texts, he might have produced a substantially different work. But he was compelled by considerable pressure and demand from his father's readers and publishers to produce something publishable as quickly as possible.\n\nIn October 1996, Christopher Tolkien commissioned illustrator Ted Nasmith to create full-page full-colour artwork for the first illustrated edition of \"The Silmarillion\". It was published in 1998, and followed in 2004 by a second edition featuring corrections and additional artwork by Nasmith.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, Christopher Tolkien published most of his father's Middle-earth writings as the 12-volume \"The History of Middle-earth\" series. In addition to the source material and earlier drafts of several portions of \"The Lord of the Rings\", these books greatly expand on the original material published in \"The Silmarillion\", and in many cases diverge from it. There is much that Tolkien intended to revise but only sketched out in notes, and some new texts surfaced after the publication of \"The Silmarillion\". These books also make it clear just how unfinished the later parts of \"The Silmarillion\" really were: some parts were never rewritten after the early versions in \"Lost Tales\".\n\n\"The Silmarillion\" is a complex work exhibiting the influence of many sources. A major influence was the Finnish epic \"Kalevala\", especially the tale of Kullervo. Influence from Greek mythology is also apparent. The island of Númenor, for example, recalls Atlantis. This, however, Tolkien later described in a letter to Christopher Bretherton as merely a \"curious chance\".\n\nGreek mythology also colours the Valar, who borrow many attributes from the Olympian gods. The Valar, like the Olympians, live in the world, but on a high mountain, separated from mortals; But the correspondences are only approximate; the Valar also contain elements of Norse mythology. Several of the Valar have characteristics resembling various Æsir, the gods of Asgard. Thor, for example, physically the strongest of the gods, can be seen both in Oromë, who fights the monsters of Melkor, and in Tulkas, the physically strongest of the Valar. Manwë, the head of the Valar, exhibits some similarities to Odin, the \"Allfather\". Tolkien also said that he saw the Maia Olórin (Gandalf) as an \"Odinic wanderer\".\n\nInfluence of the Bible and traditional Christian narrative are seen in \"The Silmarillion\" in the conflict between Melkor and Eru Ilúvatar, a parallel of the polarity of Lucifer and God. Further, \"The Silmarillion\" tells of the creation and fall of the Elves, as \"Genesis\" tells of the creation and fall of Man. As with all of Tolkien's works, \"The Silmarillion\" allows room for later Christian history, and one draft even has Finrod, a character in \"The Silmarillion\", speculating on the necessity of Eru's (God's) eventual Incarnation to save mankind.\n\nMedieval Christian cosmology shows its influence especially in the account of the creation of the universe as the manifestation of a sort of song sung by God with which the angels harmonize until the fallen angel introduces discord. St. Augustine's writings on music, as well as the extensive medieval tradition of the divine harmony—more familiar to us today in the notion of the \"music of the spheres\"—served as bases for this telling of creation.\n\nCeltic mythology show its influence in the exile of the Noldorin Elves, for example, that borrow elements from the story of Irish legends of the Tuatha Dé Danann. Welsh influence is seen in the Elvish language Sindarin, that Tolkien gave \"a linguistic character very like (though not identical with) British-Welsh ... because it seems to fit the rather 'Celtic' type of legends and stories told of its speakers\".\n\nAt the time of release, reviews of \"The Silmarillion\" were generally mixed to negative. \"The Silmarillion\" was criticized for being too serious, lacking the light-hearted moments that were found in \"The Lord of the Rings\" and especially \"The Hobbit\". \"Time\" magazine lamented that there was \"no single, unifying quest and, above all, no band of brothers for the reader to identify with\". Other criticisms included difficult-to-read archaic language and many difficult and hard-to-remember names.\n\nRobert M. Adams of \"The New York Review of Books\" called \"The Silmarillion\" \"an empty and pompous bore\", \"not a literary event of any magnitude\", and even claimed that the main reason for its \"enormous sales\" was the \"Tolkien cult\" created by the popularity of \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\", predicting that more people would buy \"The Silmarillion\" than would ever read it. The \"School Library Journal\" called it \"only a stillborn postscript\" to Tolkien's earlier works. Peter Conrad of the \"New Statesman\" even went so far as to say that \"Tolkien can't actually write\".\n\nNonetheless, a few reviewers praised the scope of Tolkien's creation. \"The New York Times Book Review\" acknowledged that \"what is finally most moving is … the eccentric heroism of Tolkien's attempt\". \"TIME\" described \"The Silmarillion\" as \"majestic, a work held so long and so powerfully in the writer's imagination that it overwhelms the reader\". The \"Horn Book Magazine\" even lauded the \"remarkable set of legends conceived with imaginative might and told in beautiful language\". John Calvin Batchelor, reviewing the book for \"The Village Voice\", lauded the book as a \"difficult but incontestable masterwork of fantasy\" and praised the character of Melkor, describing him as \"a stunning bad guy\" whose \"chief weapon against goodness is his ability to corrupt men by offering them trappings for their vanity\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56990334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56990334", "title": "The tale of Phyllis and Aristotle", "text": "The tale of Phyllis and Aristotle\n\nThe tale of Phyllis and Aristotle is a cautionary medieval tale about the triumph of a seductive woman, Phyllis, over the greatest male intellect, the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle. It is one of several Power of Women stories from that time. Among early versions is the French Lai d'Aristote from 1220.\n\nThe story of the dominatrix and the famous intellectual was taken up by artists from the 12th century onwards, in media from stone sculpture in churches to panels of wood or ivory, textiles such as carpets and tapestries, engravings, oil paintings, brass jugs (aquamanile), and stained glass. Artists attracted to the theme include Hans Baldung, Albrecht Dürer, Lucas Cranach the Elder, and Alessandro Turchi.\n\nThe tale varies in the telling, but the core of it is as follows: Aristotle advised his pupil Alexander to avoid the king's seductive mistress, Phyllis, but was himself captivated by her. She agreed to ride him, on condition that she could play the role of dominatrix. Phyllis had secretly told Alexander what to expect, and he witnessed Phyllis proving that a woman's charms could overcome even the greatest philosopher's male intellect. Phyllis is also described as Alexander's mistress, or possibly wife, rather than his father's.\n\nThe story is said by the Louvre to derive from the German work by Jacques de Vitry in the 13th century. The French work \"Le \" (The Lay of Aristotle) is known from manuscripts dating from as early as 1220, attributed by scholars to either Henri d'Andeli or .\n\nIn 1386, the English poet John Gower included a summary of the tale in his \"Confessio Amantis\" (in English, unlike his other major works), a collection of stories of immoral love told in verse. It appears in the poem on Apollonius of Tyre (Book 8, 271–2018), where Gower quips that the philosopher's logic and syllogisms do not save him:\n\nAlso in the 14th century, the Dominican John Herold wrote a Latin version of the story.\n\nIn the 15th century, it was featured in the German comedy \"Ain Spil van Maister Aristotiles\" (A play of Master Aristotle).\n\nThe cautionary tale of the dominatrix who made a fool of the famous philosopher became popular across medieval Europe. Medieval sculptors in Maasland created aquamanile, jugs in the forms of scenes with human or other figures, depicting Phyllis and Aristotle. The story was depicted in a variety of media including stone, ivory, brass, carpet, tapestry, and engravings.\n\nArtists such as Hans Baldung, Albrecht Dürer, Lucas Cranach the Elder, Bartholomeus Spranger and Jan Sadeler continued to exploit the theme, eventually with Phyllis entirely naked. Alessandro Turchi called the woman Campaspe, the mistress of Alexander. The works used media including engraving, stained glass, wood, and oil painting.\n\nArtists such as Julio Ruelas continued to adapt the Phyllis and Aristotle theme.\nOscar Kokoschka produced a version in 1913.\n"}
{"id": "5662442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5662442", "title": "Tourgasm", "text": "Tourgasm\n\nTourgasm is an American documentary television series that aired on HBO in 2006. The series follows the 2005 30-day 20-show stand-up comedy tour featuring Dane Cook and three of his best friends in the industry: Robert Kelly, Gary Gulman, and Jay Davis.\n\nThe documentary was created and directed by Dane Cook. Gary Gulman left the tour because of unknown reasons, but returned after a few dates. At each destination Dane Cook and fellow comedians play a game or do an activity before performing. Some of the events include horseback riding, riding Segway scooters, and visiting Niagara Falls.\n\n\"Tourgasm\" is very similar in format to the Showtime/Comedy Central film and short series The Comedians of Comedy. The Comedians of Comedy consisted of comedians Patton Oswalt, Maria Bamford, Zach Galifianakis, and Brian Posehn. Although similar in format both shows differ in audience numbers. The Comedians Of Comedy mostly play to small rock club audiences whereas Tourgasm plays to mostly college arena audiences.\n\"Tourgasm\" also appeared in select theatres in Canada during the month of September.\n\nThe song heard in the beginning and end credits is \"Dimension\" by Australian rock-band Wolfmother.\n\n\nSalon.com writer Heather Havrilesky described the series as \"the least worthwhile series ever to air on HBO\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12289130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12289130", "title": "Zhuang studies", "text": "Zhuang studies\n\nZhuang studies (or Zhuangology; Standard Zhuang: Cuenghhag; ) is an interdisciplinary intellectual field concerned with the Zhuang people – their history, anthropology, religion, politics, languages, and literature. The majority of such research is being carried out in the People's Republic of China. Huang Xianfan (黄现璠) is considered by many to be the father of Zhuang studies.\n\nAreas commonly included under this rubric include history of Zhuang, literature of Zhuang, art of Zhuang, music of Zhuang, language of Zhuang, sociology of Zhuang, political science of Zhuang, economics of Zhuang, folklore of Zhuang, and ethnomusicology of Zhuang. It may be compared to other ethnic groups studies disciplines, such as Tai studies and Yao studies. Zhuang studies is sometimes included within a broader regional area of focus including: \"Lingnan studies\", \"Yue people studies\",\"South Asia studies\", or \"ASEAN Studies\".\n\nZhuang studies is a relatively new discipline.\n\nHuang Xianfan may be considered as the first Zhuangologist and he did much to make Zhuang known in China. Since 1950, Huang Xianfan led the group making a largest and deepest investigation on ethnic history and traditional culture in Guangxi history. They had collected a lot of valuable materials and laid a foundation for further research on Zhuang ethnic social and historical culture.That was a very important beginning for later development of Zhuang ethnic research and establishment of Guangxi institute of ethnic studies. Therefore, the inception of Zhuang studies as an authentic academic discipline is thus associated with the first ethnologist Huang Xianfan de Zhuang who is considered as its founder to present day, the other early zhuang studies of note being Huang Zengqing (Huang group's member and the first archaeological researcher of the Guangxi) who in 1957 occupied the first chair for Zhuang's archaeology studies in China and Zhou Zuoqiou, who was primarily the pioneering subject of the zhuang literature in Guangxi Normal University.\n\nThe Bagui School (The first ethnic school in China and pioneer is Huang Xianfan) was particularly significant for the development of the discipline since the early 1950s with Huang Xianfan, Huang Zengqing, Ban Xiouwen, Ou Yang Ruoxiou, Qin Cailuan, Qin Naichang, Qin Shengmin, He Longqun, Yu Shijie, Qin Deqing, Pan Qixu, Huang Hanjin and Zeng Chaoxiong.,\n\nIn 1957, the Guangxi government established the Guangxi institute of ethnic studies to promote Zhuang studies around China. In 1991 the Guangxi Zhuang Studies Society was established, and in April 1999 the first international Zhuang studies conference was held in Wuming with scholars from 8 different countries.\n\nOver the last few decades in other countries the studies of the Zhuang have opened towards other disciplines, resulting in works with interdisciplinary approach. As examples of such open-minded Zhuang researcher we might mention the American anthropologist Jeffrey Barlow, among others, who has done noted research and publications on lexical questions, about Zhuang culture and the modern history of Zhuang. Others are Japanese anthropologist Chikada Sigeyuki, Australian anthropologist David Holm, and many more.\n\n\n"}
