{"id": "45623056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45623056", "title": "23 Things", "text": "23 Things\n\n23 Things, originally called Learning 2.0, is an education and learning project created by Helene Blowers in August 2006. Blowers, who was then employed as the technology director for the Charlotte Mecklenburg Library, created the project as a way to encourage librarians to learn and adapt to Web 2.0 and other new technologies. The program was loosely based on an article by Stephen Abram, \"43 Things I (or You) might want to do this year\".\n\nThe original format of 23 Things required participants to take part in an eight-and-a-half-week course where they kept up with coursework via a series of weekly blog posts that described Web 2.0. During this time participants were given 23 assignments (23 things) and were encouraged to work with other learners. As the project was non-mandatory, participants took part in the coursework by posting their own blog entries for each week's coursework. The project was so successful that Blower held a 23 Things summit in 2009.\n\nSince its inception 23 Things has had over 500 iterations and the concept has broadened over time to include learning programs for other professionals and students, and has also expanded to include more than 23 topics. 23 Things has also expanded beyond the United States and is currently used in multiple countries including Australia and New Zealand. Currently, \"23 Things\"is a term used to describe a Web immersion experience for participants primarily supported by the participants themselves, where they are actively involved in a network of peers and colleagues, using digital communication tools, and using a blog to post reflections as they learn.\n\nIn 2012 San Jose State University assistant professor Michael Stephens performed a research study of 23 Things programs in Australia. He found that even if people did not successfully complete the program, that the program still had the potential to positively impact library staff as the participants would still be likely to use what they did learn and/or to return to the program at a later date. Stephens also noted that a strong majority of those who completed said they felt confident exploring and using new technologies: confidence and curiosity were identified as particularly notable outcomes.\n\n\n 14. Lindsay, Lucie. \"What makes a course like 23 Things go viral?.\" There and back: Charting flexible pathways in open, mobile and distance education (2016): 170.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43068546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43068546", "title": "360Learning", "text": "360Learning\n\n360Learning is a for-profit educational technology company offering a SaaS Learning Management System. The Paris, France-based company sells access to its system by packages of users over periods of time such as 12/24/36 months.\n\nThe company was founded in 2010 by three French graduates of École Polytechnique and ESSEC. In September 2013, 360Learning raised 1.2 million euros from several investors such as ISAI and 3T Capital.\n"}
{"id": "9074870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9074870", "title": "ABC-CLIO", "text": "ABC-CLIO\n\nABC-CLIO, LLC is a publishing company for academic reference works and periodicals primarily on topics such as history and social sciences for educational and public library settings. ABC-CLIO provides service to fifteen different online databases which contain over one million online textbooks. The company consults academic leaders in the fields they cover in order to provide authority for their reference titles. The headquarters are located in Santa Barbara, California.\n\nABC-CLIO was founded in 1953 as a privately held corporation by Eric Boehm with its first publication, \"Historical Abstracts\". The name represents the company's two original divisions when it incorporated in 1969: ABC stands for American Bibliographical Center and CLIO Press is named after Clio, the muse of history from ancient Greek mythology. According to Boehm, he had always been interested in history so when he noticed that there were not many good historical abstracting services available, he started publishing the \"Historical Abstracts\".\nDuring the 1960s, a sister bibliographic and abstract publication on American history was added, \"America: History and Life\", which was considered an award-winning title. The company entered into digital publishing with electronic data in the 1960s and in 1975, it published its first online database called \"DIALOG\". During the 1980s, ABC-CLIO expanded into providing primary reference books such as encyclopedias and dictionaries and stopped publishing bibliographic books. In the 1990s, ABC-CLIO began to provide access to its humanities database on CD-ROM. The \"Exegy Current Events\" CD-ROM was named \"Best Disc of the Year\" by Library Journal. In 1998, ABC-CLIO provided electronic access to \"America: History and Life\". By the 2000s, one of the company's most popular products had become online databases for researching many topics in the field of the humanities. In 2001, ABC-CLIO began to publish eBooks, initially providing 150 different titles to schools and libraries. The company's reference books had won numerous awards, and the company started a series of subject-related online databases for secondary school use. In 2004, the company acquired the quarterly historical journal, \"Journal of the West\", which has been published since 1962.\nIn 1996, ABC-CLIO merged with an electronic publishing company, Intellimation, which also produced educational software. The merger brought Becky Snyder, ABC-CLIO's current president, from Intellimation. It sold \"Historical Abstracts\" and \"America: History and Life\" to EBSCO Publishing in 2007.\n\nIn 2008, ABC-CLIO acquired the Greenwood Publishing Group from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. The deal gave ABC-CLIO a \"perpetual license\" to use the imprints of Greenwood Press and publish all of its titles. Acquiring the publishing group gave ABC-CLIO access to Greenwood Press, Praeger Publishers, Praeger Security International and Libraries Unlimited. Greenwood focuses on publishing full-text reference works which are authoritative on various topics.\n\nLibraries Unlimited came to ABC-CLIO as part of a deal with Greenwood Press. In 2012, Kathyrn Suárez was named Publisher for this division which focuses on publishing for librarians and information professionals.\n\nABC-CLIO databases are provided under the umbrella of ABC-CLIO Solutions. There are fifteen different databases providing access to different subject areas. ABC-CLIO Solutions provides digital curriculum with multimedia content, text-to-speech features, translation tools which covers various topics relating to history and the humanities. After ABC-CLIO acquired Greenwood Press's databases, they revamped the look and feel of their interface in order to provide common access through the ABC-CLIO interface. ABC-CLIO also provided the ability to search across multiple databases through one search, also providing options for narrowing the search after revamping their interface. The new interface is considered user-friendly and provides access to personalized features.\n\nPraeger is known for publishing \"scholarly and professional books\" in the subject areas of social science and the humanities.\n"}
{"id": "18146092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18146092", "title": "ACE Centre", "text": "ACE Centre\n\nAce Centre (previously ACE Centre (Aiding Communication in Education), ACE Centre North) provides support for people with complex communications difficulties. Ace Centre offer assessment, training and information services across England, with a focus on Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) and Assistive Technology (AT). AThe ACE Centre have two offices are based in Oldham and Abingdon, and provide assessment services to England and Wales and are non-profit making independent organisation with charitable status.\n\nAce Centre is a registered charity (No. 1089313) providing support for people with complex communications difficulties. \n\nThe first ACE Centre was started in 1984 through UK government funding as part of the new initiative to introduce information technology into schools in England and Wales following the end of the Micro-Electronics Project MEP. During MEP four Special Education Micro-technology Resource Centres (SEMERCs) were set up in London (Redbridge), Manchester, Bristol and Newcastle. A special education software development centre was also established in Manchester. It was felt that those pupils with severe language or physical disabilities required more specialist support.\n\nThis idea for the first ACE centre to support these students came from Tim Southgate (Head of Ormerod Special School) and Prue Fuller, a teacher at the school. They were inspired by the computer research of Patrick Poon at the school. The original staff at the opening of the Centre in May 1984 were Prue Fuller (Director), Andrew Lysley (SEN Teacher), David Colven (Technical Officer) and Pauline Paine (Administrator). The Centre was managed by Mary Hope at MESU, a post that was later taken over by Tina Detheridge now of Wigit Software.\n\nIt was essentially a project under the management of MESU (Micro Electronics Support Unit) a government quango which later merged with CET (Centre for Educational Technology) to become NCET (the National Centre for Educational Technology). This eventually became Becta (British Educational Communications and Technology Agency) in 1998.\n\nIn 1985 a second Centre was opened in Oldham at Park Dean School It was managed by the head teacher Rhys Williams, who later became principal of Hereward College, and Roger Bates (now of Inclusive Technology). The first Director proper of ACE Oldham as it was then was Steve Broadbent. The two Centres in Oldham and Oxford service the north and south of England and Wales respectively.\n\nLocation\nThe ACE Center was housed in a spare classroom at Ormerod special school in Headington, Oxford . Later it moved to temporary buildings on the same site and remained there until the new 'Wooden Spoon' building was erected on Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre site in 1998. The new 'Wooden Spoon' building was largely funded by the Wooden Spoon Society and was officially opened by Princess Anne in April 1999. The new building has custom build facilities for assessment and training.\n\nStaff\nIt has occupational therapists, speech and language Therapists, special needs and mainstream teachers, assistive technology specialists and support staff. Early members of staff were Caroline Gray (occupational therapist), Gillian Hazell (the Nelms, Speech and Language Therapist) and Mark Saville (web page and publications creator).\n\nPrue Fuller retired as director in 1999 and was later awarded an MBE for her services to Assistive and Alternative Communication. She was also bi-annual president of ISAAC 1998 - 2000. Caroline Grey became director of the ACE Centre following Prue's retirement until she retired in 2007. Liz Tapper took over as temporary director until September 2008 and Dr Ben Janubi has been in post since January 2009.\n\nThe CAP Project This was a government initiative to boost the support and provision of communication aids to school students. The ACE Centres were two of the organisations involved with assessment for this project. It initially had a two-year timetable and a £10M budget but was extended for a further two years on the same funding basis. During this time the staffing in the centre increased considerably to cope with the assessment demand.\n\nThe first software developments at the ace centre was to re-write Sentence Scan and Start-Write for the increasingly popular BBC Micro. Sentence scan was a switch or keyboard accessible sentence builder with speech support. Sentences could be built up from sets of stored words or phrases. Start-Write was a letter/keyboard based program with speech support and sophisticated user support configurations. Staff from the Centre also contributed to the design of the programs such as 'Prompt Writer' and 'Concept', being created by the Special Needs Software Centre based at the Manchester SEMERC managed by Dave King.\n\nThe advent of the IBM compatible computer lead to more graphics based programs being developed for switch users such as 'Plocka' (Swedish for 'pick up'). Plocka has facilities for creating sorting and matching scenarios for switch users and has a built in graphics library.\n\n\nThe Ace Centre has published a number of reviews, guides, and 'how to' documents over the years. as well as contributing articles to conferences and peer reviewed journals. The main forum for disseminating out work is increasingly through the web site but they regularly give papers at conferences including the ISAAC conference, Communication Matters, AAATE and others.\n\nAce Centre works with companies, universities and other charities to:\nResearch and development projects enhance achievement and good practice in the field; directly, through the development of AT & AAC, and indirectly through awareness raising, skills building and informing government policy. Service-users with communication disabilities are involved throughout.\n\nAce Centre is a Registered Charity (No 1089313)\n"}
{"id": "31180332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31180332", "title": "Academic achievement", "text": "Academic achievement\n\nAcademic achievement or (academic) performance is the extent to which a student, teacher or institution has achieved their short or long-term educational goals. Cumulative GPA and completion of educational benchmarks such as secondary school diplomas and bachelor's degrees represent academic achievement.\n\nAcademic achievement is commonly measured through examinations or continuous assessments but there is no general agreement on how it is best evaluated or which aspects are most important—procedural knowledge such as skills or declarative knowledge such as facts. Furthermore, there are inconclusive results over which individual factors successfully predict academic performance, elements such as test anxiety, environment, motivation, and emotions require consideration when developing models of school achievement. Now, schools are receiving money based on its students academic achievements. A school with more academic achievements would receive more money than a school with less achievements.\n\nIn California, the achievement of schools is measured by the Academic Performance Index.\n\nIndividual differences in academic performance have been linked to differences in intelligence and personality. Students with higher mental ability as demonstrated by IQ tests and those who are higher in conscientiousness (linked to effort and achievement motivation) tend to achieve highly in academic settings. A recent meta-analysis suggested that mental curiosity (as measured by typical intellectual engagement) has an important influence on academic achievement in addition to intelligence and conscientiousness.\n\nChildren's semi-structured home learning environment transitions into a more structured learning environment when children start first grade. Early academic achievement enhances later academic achievement.Parent's academic socialization is a term describing the way parents influence students' academic achievement by shaping students' skills, behaviors and attitudes towards school. Parents influence students through the environment and discourse parents have with their children. Academic socialization can be influenced by parents' socio-economic status. Highly educated parents tend to have more stimulating learning environments. Further, recent research indicates that the relationship quality with parents will influence the development of academic self-efficacy among adolescent-aged children, which will in turn affect their academic performance.\n\nChildren's first few years of life are crucial to the development of language and social skills. School preparedness in these areas help students adjust to academic expectancies.\n\nIndirect evidence suggests that physical activity could affect academic achievement. Studies have shown that physical activity can increase neural activity in the brain. Exercise specifically increases executive brain functions such as attention span and working memory.\n\nNon-cognitive factors or skills, are a set of \"attitudes, behaviors, and strategies\" that promotes academic and professional success, such as academic self-efficacy, self-control, motivation, expectancy and goal setting theories, emotional intelligence, and determination. To create attention on factors other than those measured by cognitive test scores sociologists Bowles and Gintis coined the term in the 1970s. The term serves as a distinction of cognitive factors, which are measured by teachers through tests and quizzes. Non-cognitive skills are increasingly gaining popularity because they provide a better explanation for academic and professional outcomes.\n\nSelf-efficacy is one of the best predictors of academic success. Self-efficacy is the belief you can do something. Stajković et others looked at the Big Five traits on academic success as well and saw that conscientiousness and emotional stability were predictors of self-efficacy in over half of their analyses. However, self-efficacy was more indicative of academic performance than personality in all of the analyses. This suggests that parents who want their children to have academic achievement can look to increase their child's sense of self-efficacy at school.\n\nMotivation is the reasoning behind an individual's actions. Research has found that students with higher academic performance, motivation and persistence use intrinsic goals rather than extrinsic ones. Furthermore, students who are motivated to improve upon their previous or upcoming performance tend to perform better academically than peers with lower motivation. In other words, students with higher need for achievement have greater academic performance.Bad dietary habits can create the disadvantage of a lack of motivation\n\nSelf-control, in the academic setting, is related self-discipline, self-regulation, delay of gratification and impulse control. Baumeister, Vohs, and Tice defined self-control as \"the capacity for altering one's own responses, especially to bring them into line with standards such as ideals, values, morals, and social expectations, and to support the attainment of long-term goals.\" In other words, self-control is the ability to prioritize long-term goals over the temptation of short-term impulses. Self-control is usually measured through self completed questionnaires. Researchers often use the Self-Control Scale developed by Tangney, Baumeister, & Boone in 2004.\n\nThrough a longitudinal study of the marshmallow test, researchers found a relationship between the time spent waiting for the second marshmallow and higher academic achievement. However, this finding only applied for participants who had the marshmallow in plain site and were placed without any distraction tactics.\n\nHigh locus of control, where an individual attributes success to personal decision making and positive behaviors such as discipline, is a ramification of self-control. High locus of control has been found to have a positive predictive relationship with high collegiate GPA.   \n\nOrganized extracurricular activities have yielded a positive relationship with high academic performance including increasing attendance rates, school engagement, GPA, postsecondary education, as well as a decrease in drop out rates and depression. Additionally, positive developmental outcomes have been found in youth that engage in organized extracurricular activities. High school athletics have been linked with strong academic performance, particularly among urban youth. However, involvement in athletics has been linked to increased alcohol consumption and abuse for high school students along with increased truancy.\n\nWhile research suggests that there is a positive link between academic performance and participation in extracurricular activities, the practice behind this relationship is not always clear. Moreover, there are many unrelated factors that influence the relationship between academic achievement and participation in extracurricular activities (Mahoney et al., 2005). These variables include: civic engagement, identity development, positive social relationships and behaviors, and mental health (Mahoney et al., 2005). In other research on youth, it was reported that positive social support and development, which can be acquired through organized after school activities is beneficial for achieving academic success (Eccles & Templeton, 2002). In terms of academic performance there are a whole other group of variables to consider. Some of these variables include: demographic and familial influences, individual characteristics, and program resources and content (Mahoney et al., 2005). For example, socio-economic status has been found to plays a role in the number of students participating in extracurricular activities (Covay & Carbonaro, 2010). Furthermore, it is suggested that the peer relationships and support that develop in extracurricular activities often affect how individuals perform in school (Eccles & Templeton, 2002). With all these variables to consider it is important to create a better understanding how academic achievement can be seen in both a negative and positive light.\n\nIn conclusion, most research suggests that extracurricular activities are positively correlated to academic achievement (Mahoney et al., 2005). It has been mentioned that more research could be conducted to better understand the direction of this relationship (Eccles & Templeton, 2002). Together this information can give us a better understand the exact aspects to consider when considering the impact that participation in extracurricular activities can have on academic achievement.\n\nThere are experiences analysed by research projects that show how the incorporation of Successful Educational Actions (SEAs) in schools with high absenteeism are contributing to the improvement of academic achievement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19957891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19957891", "title": "Academic grading in Iceland", "text": "Academic grading in Iceland\n\nIn Iceland, a grade point average (GPA) is given as a weighed average of all grades in a marked period. Grades range from 0-10 and the GPA is rounded off to two decimal points.\n\nTerm- and course grades are given on the scale of 0-10 with increments of 0.5.\n\nFor added convenience, grades are categorized as follows:\n"}
{"id": "38012414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38012414", "title": "Accra High School", "text": "Accra High School\n\nAccra High School is a High school located in Accra, Ghana in West Africa.\n\nAccra High School was founded by the late Rev. James Thomas Roberts on 17 August 1923. The school, was located at beach avenue in Aayalolo, a suburb of Accra, Ghana. The school celebrated its first anniversary in August 1924 with a church service at the Holy Trinity Cathedral, Accra and the sermon was delivered by the Anglican Bishop of Accra, the late Dr. John Aglionby. Thus, there was a tie between the school and the Church of England. In 1924, the school entered its first candidates for the college of preceptors as well as for the Cambridge University, the royal society of Arts and Pitman`s Shorthand Examinations in the United Kingdom. In 1926, most of the pupils sat and passed the junior Cambridge Examination. In that year, Mr. Frank Roberts, the eldest son of Rev. Roberts, joined the staff after graduating in Bachelor of Arts from the United Kingdom. He worked hard to enhance the Academic and Disciplinary standard of the school in Accra. In 1927, the late J.O. Ansah Johnson became the first student to pass the Cambridge School Certificate Examination.\n\nIn 1931, members of staff and students performed Shakespeare's \"Twelfth Night\" with tremendous success and this was followed in 1932 with further excellent performances. Before the founding of Accra High School, the only Secondary Grammar School in Accra, the Accra grammar school, had closed down. However Rev. Roberts had massive support of some men of the highest intellectual and moral calibre. Most of these scholars were Lawyers, Doctors, Civil servants and merchants who had their University education in the United Kingdom. Rev Roberts was ably assisted by Barristers J.A. Glover-Addo, Harry Riberio, E.O. Quist and G. Akilakpa Sawyer, Dr.E.V. Nanka-Bruce and Messrs J.A. Vanderpuye, John Backman, S.O. Akiwumi, A. J. Ocansey, J. P. Garshong and Charles Kojo Bruce. So the school continued to excel and achieve successes in its educational effort. 1952 Accra High School was granted official recognition by the Government and became a Government Public School.\n\nIn the year (1952), Rev. Roberts retired at the age of 81. The mantle of headship then fell on Mr. W.S. Conton who ran the school from 1952 to 1956. Mr. Conton was succeeded by Mr. P.O. Sanful, Snr. who ran the school from 1956 to 1966. It was during the headship of Mr. Sanful that Rev. Roberts, the founder and retired Headmaster, died on 5 September 1964, at the age of 94. Accra High school grew from strength to strength and by 1964, the school had expanded from a two-stream to a three-stream school and the enrolment had doubled from 300 to 600 with a teaching staff of 27.\nA 9 hectare plot of land had been acquired by Government of Ghana for a new Building at North Ridge near the West African Examinations Council and the German Embassy in Accra.\n\nBy September 1967 the school was relocated when a fifteen-unit classroom block was completed together with a two-storey science block. 1967, Mr. A.N.B Andrews, had then taken over from Mr. Sanful Snr. as headmaster. Mr. Andrews leadership saw further developments in infrastructure such as a ten-unit classroom block, a home science block, a technical block and an administration block, a library and a staff common room, a cafeteria and a students hostel to house the six form student preparing for their A-level examinations. All these were in place by the end of the 1976 academic year.\n\nIn October 1976, Mr. Andrews left the school on promotion to Ghana Education Service Headquarters as director for schools and colleges. His departure coincided with the grant of sixth form status to the school which he worked hard for. Mr. D.R. Essah who was the assistant headmaster acted for a year during the 1976-77 Academic year before handing over to Mr. P.O. Sanful, Jnr. As the substantive Head in September, 1977. Mr. Sanful ran the school until September, 1986. Mr Sanful did the pioneering work in Sixth Form Education and a Boarding School System at Accra High School. In January, 1987, Mr. E.B. Dogbe became the new Headmaster. He was a person full of discipline and Principles and kept his words. Punctuality was the order of the day. He retired in November 1996 and handed over to Mr. Ben. Nikoi koteye as the substantive Headmaster, in whose term the school celebrated its 75th (Diamond Jubilee) with great pomp and gaiety. A monument was raised by the old students to commemorate the occasion.\n\nUnder his headship, the School achieved very remarkable academic results. There was cordiality among the staff and moral was also high among teacher and students. His period saw parents changing their attitude towards the welfare of their children, leading to a vibrant Parent Teacher Association which led subsequent Development in the school. He also saw the landscaping of the compound.\n\nIn April 1999 upon the retirement of Mr. Ben Koteye, the mantle fell on Mrs. Sylvia Asempa, the first female to head the school. She continued the good works that her predecessors had set in motion. It was during her time that Accra Ring Road central with support from the Rotary foundation of Rotary International constructed a multi-purpose playing court on the reclaimed waterlogged triangle of the school. She was also the first bilingual Headteacher of Accra High School. She spoke fluent French hence the further development of the French as a foreign Language in the School.\nThe P.T.A. Converted the basement of the existing school flat into two, two bedroom unit for staff occupation as well as the establishment of a 150 million computer laboratory for the school. It is worthy of note that some old students also contributed some of the facilities used in the computer lab.\nMrs. Asempa was later transferred to Aburi Girls Secondary School to continue her excellent work.\n\nUnder the administration, the bust of the founder was erected on the fore court of the administration block. In March 2002, Accra High School was blessed with yet another dynamic headmaster in the person of Mr. E.A. Kissiedu. Although he has been head for a brief period, he has re-equipped the chemistry and the physics labs, paved the alley in front of the classroom complex, upgraded office equipment sourced new computers for the internet security and constructed of kerbs along the road from the gate to the quadrangle to prevent the perennial erosion. His interest in the promotion of sports has boosted the moral of sports in Boys and Girls in the school. He handed over to Mr. Isaac Ohimeng Gyebi who served from 2006 to 2011. The school is currently headed by Mrs Betty Aduhene-Chinbuah who took over in 2011. Under her leadership, the school is pursuing a redevelopment agenda, with the active support of the alumni (AHISCOSA), to offer the school a facelift and ensure that AHISCO regains its past glory.\n\nPresently, the school runs five programmes, namely: general arts, general science, technical, business,visual art and home economics.The school also houses a science resource centre, French centre bureau de co-ordination nationale des cref and a completed office complex for the Ghana Education Service Council.\nAHISCO, the first secondary school in Accra, is noted for academic excellence, student discipline, sporting talents and excellent marching skills at independence parades.\n\n"}
{"id": "21209985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21209985", "title": "Agricultural University of Tajikistan", "text": "Agricultural University of Tajikistan\n\nTajik Agrarian University Shirinsho Shotemur (TAU) ((Russian) \"Донишгоҳи аграрии Тоҹикистон\") is a university in Tajikistan. It is in Dushanbe.\n\nIn 1931, the 'Central Asian Fruit-and-Vegetable Institute' was founded in the city of Khujand (former Leninabad). In 1934 it was reorganized and renamed into the 'Tajik Agricultural Institute'. In 1992, the Institute was again reorganized into 'Tajik Agrarian University'. The Government of Tajikistan decided (#311 from October 31, 2009) to rename it as 'Tajik Agrarian University Shirinsho Shotemur'.\n\nTAU has a current enrolment of 6500 students.\n\nIt has more than 35,000 alumni. There are nine faculties at the university: Agronomy, Agribusiness, Zoo-engineering, Veterinary science, Economics, Horticulture and Biotechnology of Agriculture, Mechanization of Agriculture and Hydromeliorative methods, educating experts on 31 specialities.\n\n"}
{"id": "42529677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42529677", "title": "Al-Bairaq", "text": "Al-Bairaq\n\nAL-Bairaq () is a non-profit educational outreach program for high school students, allowing them to learn at the research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University, in Doha, Qatar. Students engage in scientific activities which aim to enhance their skills and motivation, and guide them in their future career. Students attend modules in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM fields).\n\nThe program doesn't use prepared lessons, but instead aims to motivate students with enjoyable project-based learning, encouraging them to solve authentic problems which require them to work as a team to arrive at solutions. The program uses social media such as Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook and YouTube to allow students to communicate their ideas, and to display their resulting products.\nAny student at a Qatari secondary school (independent and international) is eligible to participate. Faculty members train and mentor the students to help develop their critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills. Students, in teams, formulate their own research questions related to materials science; build a research plan; investigate, using the CAM's instrumentation. They report their findings in a public forum, evaluated by representatives from business and industry.\n\nThe program was developed with UNESCO and the Qatar National Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Its sponsors are RasGas, and Shell. \n\nAL-Bairaq includes four tracks: I am a Researcher, I am Discovering Materials, Science in Sport, and Solving Problems. In each track's semi-final and final events, students compete for several prizes and competitions. The competing candidates are evaluated by a selected panel of judges from different scientific, business, and industrial organizations.\n\nThis track is designed to stimulate students' curiosity about science through experimenting with different materials in laboratory setting under professional supervision and guidance. \"I am a researcher\" offers high school students in Qatar a unique opportunity to get involved in real research conducted at the CAM and other departments in Qatar University, working with the university professors and professional researchers in portions of their current research so that students are able to manage their own hands-on research projects.\n\nStudents demonstrate their understanding of the scientific concepts as well as their ideas and thoughts via PowerPoint and other presentation tools. They present in a public forum and their learning and work are evaluated by a jury from business and industrial organizations. In addition to research activities, and as complement to them, “I am a Researcher” track include many science and art competitions where participants in their groups will be candidates for winning one of our multiple and various prizes. Winners will be selected, based on pre-defined criteria, by a panel of experts formed from sponsor companies and from business and industrial organizations in Qatar. \nThis track aims to introduce the students to variety of topics in materials science. These modules are all built around a common structure, where four or more related activities introduce an important topic in contemporary materials science. Through these activities, students learn about the topic by investigating key features of the materials that are the focus of the module. Then students use what they have learned from the activities to participate in a design project. This project aims to inspire students to design, test, and build their own product that uses the materials which are the focus of the module.\nOne example of students' projects is the conversion of carbon dioxide into methanol.\n\nStudents are encouraged to discover the interconnections between the STEM fields and society, and make a direct connection between what they are learning in class and their everyday lives.\n\n\"Science in Sport\" is involved in all areas of sport from timing, distance measurement, materials technology, and performance monitoring. The inspiration of science is found in every aspect of sport materials, and the technology is frequently working on better production for sports materials. Bringing the interest of the students in sports through technical aspects of science themes, may include design, materials, mechanics, dynamics, math, and engineering, to create sports materials using different simple materials.\n\nThrough this track, students learn how to solve a problem through a simulation of a problem. They have the freedom to solve it under the supervision of the AL-Bairaq team.\n\nThe effects of AL-Bairaq on the secondary school students are supported by the results of a research carried out in Qatar, which concluded that the advanced learning environment resulted in the improvement of the students’ ability to acquire and retain new knowledge. Furthermore, the advanced learning environment had a direct positive impact on students’ attitude towards research, and students gained positive attitudes towards work as well.\n\nAL-Bairaq was selected for the 2015 World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) awards; for the best new solutions to education, adoption of latest practices, and its positive social impact. \n\nWISE is an international, multi-sectoral platform for creative thinking, debate and purposeful action. WISE has established itself as a global reference in new approaches to education. Through both the annual Summit and a range of ongoing programs WISE is promoting innovation and building the future of education through collaboration. \nAl-Bairaq won the Middle East Silver Award at the third annual Reimagine Education Awards, which was held at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia on 2016. Al-Bairaq accomplished this achievement for altering the relationship between learner and teacher, moving from a dynamic that is explicitly hierarchical, to one that makes explicit a shared goal, and places the student into the role of co-creator of knowledge. \n\nReimagine Education identifies those most successful in creating transformative educational initiatives, and provides key stakeholders in the future of education the opportunity to collaborate, network and invest. It’s organized by The Wharton School -- SEI Center at the University of Philadelphia, and Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) -- compiler of the QS World University Rankings. \nUnder supervision from AL-Bairaq, AL-Bairaq students participated in Intel competition and was honored as the first place winner in Qatar at the Education conference and Intel regional and was nominated to represent Qatar at Intel ISEF 2017, held in Los Angeles, California, United States. The project was also honored at the special awards ceremony in Intel ISEF 2017 by Qatar Foundation. The winning project is titled as Marine Degradable Plastic Based on Soybean By-Products. \n\n"}
{"id": "192230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192230", "title": "Almanac", "text": "Almanac\n\nAn almanac (also spelled \"almanack\" and \"almanach\") is an annual publication listing a set of events forthcoming in the next year.\n\nIt includes information like weather forecasts, farmers' planting dates, tide tables, and other tabular data often arranged according to the calendar. Celestial figures and various statistics are found in almanacs, such as the rising and setting times of the Sun and Moon, dates of eclipses, hours of high and low tides, and religious festivals.\n\nA calendar, which is a system for time keeping, in written form is usually produced as a most simple almanac: it includes additional information about the day of the week on which a particular day falls, major holidays, the phases of the moon, earthquake hazard levels etc. The set of events noted in an almanac are selected in view of a more or less specific group of readers e.g. farmers, sailors, astronomers or others.\n\nThe etymology of the word is unclear. It is suggested the word \"almanac\" derives from a Greek word meaning \"calendar\". However, that word appears only once in antiquity, by Eusebius who quotes Porphyry as to the Coptic Egyptian use of astrological charts (\"almenichiaká\"). The earliest almanacs were calendars that included agricultural, astronomical, or meteorological data. But it is highly unlikely Roger Bacon received the word from this etymology: \"Notwithstanding the suggestive sound and use of this word (of which however the real form is very uncertain), the difficulties of connecting it historically either with the Spanish Arabic manākh, or with Medieval Latin almanach without Arabic intermediation, seem insurmountable.\"\n\nThe earliest documented use of the word in any language is in Latin in 1267 by Roger Bacon, where it meant a set of tables detailing movements of heavenly bodies including the moon.\n\nOne etymology report says \"The ultimate source of the word is obscure. Its first syllable, al-, and its general relevance to medieval science and technology, strongly suggest an Arabic origin, but no convincing candidate has been found\". Another report similarly says of \"almanac\": \"First seen in Roger Bacon. Apparently from Spanish Arabic, \"al-manakh\", but this is not an Arabic word...The word remains a puzzle.\" The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" similarly says \"the word has no etymon in Arabic\" but indirect circumstantial evidence \"points to a Spanish Arabic \"al-manākh\"\".\n\nThe reason why the proposed Arabic word is speculatively spelled \"al-manākh\" is that the spelling occurred as \"almanach\", as well as almanac (and Roger Bacon used both spellings). The earliest use of the word was in the context of astronomy calendars.\n\nThe prestige of the Tables of Toledo and other medieval Arabic astronomy works at the time of the word's emergence in the West, together with the absence of the word in Arabic, suggest it may have been invented in the West and is pseudo-Arabic. At that time in the West, it would have been prestigious to attach an Arabic appellation to a set of astronomical tables. Also around that time, prompted by that motive, the Latin writer Pseudo-Geber wrote under an Arabic pseudonym. (The later alchemical word \"alkahest\" is known to be pseudo-Arabic.)\n\nThe earlier texts considered to be almanacs have been found in the Near East, dating back to the middle of the second millennium BC. They have been called generally hemerologies, from the Greek \"hēmerā\", meaning \"day\". Among them is the so-called Babylonian Almanac, which lists favorable and unfavorable days with advice on what to do on each of them. Successive variants and versions aimed at different readership have been found. Egyptian lists of good and bad moments, three times each day, have also been found. Many of these prognostics were connected with celestial events. The flooding of the Nile valley, a most important event in ancient Egypt, was expected to occur at the summer solstice but as the civil calendar had exactly 365 days, over the centuries the date was drifting in the calendar. The first heliacal rising of Sirius was used for its prediction and this practice, the observation of some star and its connecting to some event apparently spread.\n\nThe Greek almanac, known as parapegma, has existed in the form an inscribed stone on which the days of the month were indicated by movable pegs inserted into bored holes, hence the name. There were also written texts and according to Diogenes Laërtius, \"Parapegma\" was the title of a book by Democritus. Ptolemy, the Alexandrian astronomer (2nd century) wrote a treatise, \"Phaseis\"—\"phases of fixed stars and collection of weather-changes\" is the translation of its full title—the core of which is a \"parapegma\", a list of dates of seasonally regular weather changes, first appearances and last appearances of stars or constellations at sunrise or sunset, and solar events such as solstices, all organized according to the solar year. With the astronomical computations were expected weather phenomena, composed as a digest of observations made by various authorities of the past. \"Parapegmata\" had been composed for centuries.\n\nPtolemy believed that astronomical phenomena caused the changes in seasonal weather; his explanation of why there was not an exact correlation of these events was that the physical influences of other heavenly bodies also came into play. Hence for him, weather prediction was a special division of astrology.\n\nThe origins of the almanac can be connected to ancient Babylonian astronomy, when tables of planetary periods were produced in order to predict lunar and planetary phenomena. Similar treatises called Zij were later composed in medieval Islamic astronomy.\n\nThe modern almanac differs from Babylonian, Ptolemaic and Zij tables in the sense that \"the entries found in the almanacs give directly the positions of the celestial bodies and need no further computation\", in contrast to the more common \"auxiliary astronomical tables\" based on Ptolemy's \"Almagest\". The earliest known almanac in this modern sense is the \"Almanac of Azarqueil\" written in 1088 by Abū Ishāq Ibrāhīm al-Zarqālī (Latinized as Arzachel) in Toledo, al-Andalus. The work provided the true daily positions of the sun, moon and planets for four years from 1088 to 1092, as well as many other related tables. A Latin translation and adaptation of the work appeared as the \"Tables of Toledo\" in the 12th century and the \"Alfonsine tables\" in the 13th century.\nAfter almanacs were devised, people still saw little difference between predicting the movements of the stars and tides, and predicting the future in the divination sense. Early almanacs therefore contained general horoscopes, as well as the more concrete information. In 1150 Solomon Jarchus created such an almanac considered to be among the first modern almanacs. Copies of 12th century almanacs are found in the British Museum, and in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. In 1300, Petrus de Dacia created an almanac (Savilian Library, Oxford). This was the same year Roger Bacon, OFM, produced his as well. In 1327 Walter de Elvendene created an almanac and later on John Somers of Oxford, in 1380. In 1386 Nicholas de Lynne, Oxford produced an almanac. In 1457 the first printed almanac was published at Mainz, by Gutenberg (eight years before the famous Bible). Regio-Montanus produced an almanac in 1472 (Nuremberg, 1472), which was continued in print for several centuries in many editions. In 1497 the \"Sheapheard’s Kalendar\", translated from French (Richard Pynson) became the first English printed almanac.\n\nBy the second half of the 16th century, yearly almanacs were being produced in England by men such as Anthony Askham, Thomas Buckminster, John Dade and Gabriel Frende. In the 17th century, English almanacs were bestsellers, second only to the Bible; by the middle of the century, 400,000 almanacs were being produced annually (a complete listing can be found in the English Short Title Catalogue). Until its deregulation in 1775, the Stationers' Company maintained a lucrative monopoly over almanac publication in England. Richard Allestree (who is not the same as this Richard Allestree) wrote one of the more popular English almanacs, producing yearly volumes from 1617 to 1643, but his is by no means the earliest or the longest-running almanac.\n\nIn British America, William Pierce of Harvard College published the first American almanac entitled, \"An Almanac for New England for the year 1639\" Cambridge, Massachusetts. Harvard became the first center for the annual publication of almanacs with various editors including Samuel Danforth, Oakes, Cheever, Chauncey, Dudley, Foster, et alia. An almanac maker going under the pseudonym of Poor Richard, Knight of the Burnt Island began to publish \"Poor Robin's Almanack\" one of the first comic almanacs that parodied these horoscopes in its 1664 issue, saying \"This month we may expect to hear of the Death of some Man, Woman, or Child, either in Kent or Christendom.\" Other noteworthy comic almanacs include those published from 1687-1702 by John Tully of Saybrook, Connecticut.\n\nThe most important early American almanacs were made from 1726-1775 by Nathaniel Ames of Dedham, Massachusetts. A few years later James Franklin began publishing the Rhode-Island Almanack beginning in 1728. Five years later his brother Benjamin Franklin began publishing \"Poor Richard's Almanack\" from 1733-1758. Benjamin Banneker, a free African American, composed a series of almanacs from 1792-1797.\n\nCurrently published almanacs such as \"Whitaker's Almanack\" have expanded their scope and contents beyond that of their historical counterparts. Modern almanacs include a comprehensive presentation of statistical and descriptive data covering the entire world. Contents also include discussions of topical developments and a summary of recent historical events. Other currently published almanacs (ca. 2006) include \"TIME Almanac with Information Please\", \"World Almanac and Book of Facts\", \"The Farmer's Almanac\" and \"The Old Farmer's Almanac\" and The Almanac for Farmers & City Folk. The \"Inverness Almanac\" ,\" an almanac/literary journal, was published in West Marin, California, from 2015 to 2016. In 2007, Harrowsmith Country Life Magazine launched a Canadian Almanac, written in Canada, with all-Canadian content. The nonprofit agrarian organization the Greenhorns currently publishes \"The New Farmer's Almanac\" as a resource for young farmers.\n\nMajor topics covered by almanacs (reflected by their tables of contents) include: geography, government, demographics, agriculture, economics and business, health and medicine, religion, mass media, transportation, science and technology, sport, and awards/prizes.\n\nOther examples include \"The Almanac of American Politics\" published by Columbia Books & Information Services, \"The Almanac of American Literature\", and \"The Almanac of British Politics\".\n\nFrom 1985 to 1990, approximately 53 per cent of all almanac sales sold in the United States were sold through the \"Where in the World Is Carmen Sandiego? (1985)\" computer game pack that included a complimentary \"World Almanac and Book of Facts.\"\n\nThe GPS almanac, as part of the data transmitted by each GPS satellite, contains coarse orbit and status information for all satellites in the constellation, an ionospheric model, and information to relate GPS derived time to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Hence the GPS almanac provide a similar goal as the ancient Babylonian almanac, to find celestial bodies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4763047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4763047", "title": "Azerbaijan University of Languages", "text": "Azerbaijan University of Languages\n\nAzerbaijan University of Languages () is a public university in Baku, Azerbaijan. The student body consists of approximately 4000 undergraduates and 900 graduate (master's degree) students. The university has a combined faculty of more than 700 teachers.\n\nThe beginnings of the university can be traced to 1937, with Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute's opening of the School of Foreign Languages. In 1940, the Azerbaijan Communist Party decreed that a separate Institute of Foreign Languages be formed, but the outbreak of World War II caused the new Institute to quickly fold back into Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute. After the war, the government of Azerbaijan SSR created the Azerbaijan Institute of Foreign Languages in 1948, but it was folded into the Azerbaijan Institute of Russian Language and Literature in 1959. Finally, in 1973, the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages was established as an independent institution. In 1996 the school was renamed the Azerbaijan State Institute of Languages. In 2000 the institute was given university status and renamed as the Azerbaijan University of Languages.\n\nThe University maintains close relations with UNESCO, operating a UNESCO Translation Department as well as hosting a UNESCO-sponsored faculty chair.\nThere are 7 schools, 25 departments at the university, a lot of scientific centers, laboratories activate at present.\n\nAs a result of the educational reforms, Azerbaijan University of Languages has been the first university which transmitted the whole system to credit system. The university has cooperation with higher educational institutions of Turkey, the U.S, the United Kingdom, France and other European institutions. Student exchanges have been intensive thanks to those cooperation.\n\nAfgan Ali Abdullayev is current acting rector of the university. He was born in Yevlakh region, where he graduated from high school. Upon receipt of the Azerbaijan Pedagogical University of Foreign Languages, students majoring in English and Azerbaijan Languages of Azerbaijan University of Languages (AUL), where he subsequently worked as a dean, and now – a vice-rector. After graduation, he continued his education in graduate of the Azerbaijan State University of Foreign Languages with a degree in Germanic languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26192095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26192095", "title": "Brian Leiter", "text": "Brian Leiter\n\nBrian Leiter (; born 1963) is an American philosopher and legal scholar who is Karl N. Llewellyn Professor of Jurisprudence at the University of Chicago Law School and founder and Director of Chicago's Center for Law, Philosophy & Human Values. A review in \"Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews\" described Leiter as \"one of the most influential legal philosophers of our time\", while a review in \"The Journal of Nietzsche Studies\" described Leiter's book \"Nietzsche on Morality\" (2002) as \"arguably the most important book on Nietzsche's philosophy in the past twenty years.\"\n\nLeiter taught from 1995 to 2008 at the University of Texas School of Law, where he was founder and Director of the Law and Philosophy Program. He joined the University of Chicago faculty in 2008. His scholarly writings have been primarily in legal philosophy and Continental philosophy, especially Nietzsche and Marx. He has also been a visiting professor at universities in the United States and Europe, including Yale University and Oxford University. He is founding editor of a book series entitled \"Routledge Philosophers\", and (with Leslie Green) of \"Oxford Studies in Philosophy of Law.\" He is also a prolific blogger. Leiter was also the founder and for 25 years the editor of the Philosophical Gourmet Report (\"PGR\"), an influential but also controversial ranking of philosophy PhD programs in the English-speaking world. After repeated protests, one in 2002 and one in 2014, Leiter retired and turned over editorship of the PGR to Berit Brogaard, a philosopher at the University of Miami, and Christopher Pynes, a philosopher at Western Illinois University.\nBorn to a Jewish family, Leiter earned his Bachelor of Arts in philosophy from Princeton University (1984), and his J.D. (1987) and Ph.D. (in philosophy; 1995) from the University of Michigan, where his dissertation was supervised by Peter Railton.\n\nLeiter taught for two years at the University of San Diego School of Law, and was a visiting assistant professor of philosophy at the University of California, San Diego., before joining the faculty at the University of Texas School of Law in 1995, where he taught until 2008. At Texas, Leiter was founder and Director of the Law and Philosophy Program. In 2008, Leiter moved to the University of Chicago, where he is now Karl N. Llewellyn Professor of Jurisprudence at the University of Chicago Law School, and founder of Chicago's Center for Law, Philosophy & Human Values.\n\nLeiter has been a visiting professor of law or philosophy at Yale Law School, University College London, University of Chicago Law School, University of Paris X-Nanterre, University of California, San Diego, and Oxford University. He edited the journal \"Legal Theory\" from 2000 to 2008, and is editor of the \"Routledge Philosophers\", a series of introductions to major philosophers, and (with Leslie Green) of \"Oxford Studies in the Philosophy of Law\".\n\nAuthor Walter K. Olson described Leiter as \"left-leaning\" in his book \"Schools for Misrule: Legal Academia and an Overlawyered America\" (Encounter Books, 2011). and Leiter himself has professed sympathy for Marx, stating in an interview that, \"On two central issues, Marx was far more right than any of his critics: first, that the long-term tendency of capitalist societies is towards immiseration of the majority (the post-WWII illusion of upward mobility for the \"middle classes\" will soon be revealed for the anomaly it was); and second, that capitalist societies produce moral and political ideologies that serve to justify the dominance of the capitalist class.\"\n\nLeiter's scholarly writings have been in two main areas--legal philosophy and Continental philosophy--although he has also written about metaethics, religious liberty, and other topics. Philosophical naturalism has been a major theme in both contexts.\n\nIn legal philosophy, Leiter has offered a reinterpretation of American Legal Realism as embodying a prescient philosophical naturalism and a defense of what he called \"naturalized jurisprudence\" in his book \"Naturalizing Jurisprudence: Essays on American Legal Realism and Naturalism in Legal Philosophy\" (Oxford University Press, 2007). Upon publication, Jeremy Horder wrote that the \"book will confirm Brian Leiter 's place in the front rank of legal theorists in the world today.\" Leiter also wrote the entry on \"Naturalism in Legal Philosophy\" for the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\". On his view, \"philosophers generally should aim to unpack the 'concepts that have been vindicated by their role in successful explanation and prediction of empirical phenomena'\" and thus should \"'take seriously the…social scientific literature on law…to see what concept of law figures in the most powerful explanatory and predictive models of legal phenomena such as judicial behavior.' This methodological view, however, raises questions about why the legal philosopher should study only judicial behavior and not something else. More generally, the naturalist owes an account of what features of law are most in need of explication and why.\"\n\nLeiter is also a scholar of Continental philosophy, and is co-editor with Michael E. Rosen of \"The Oxford Handbook of Continental Philosophy\". He has written a considerable amount on the philosophical work of Friedrich Nietzsche, including an article for the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\". In particular, Leiter defended a reading of Nietzsche as a philosophical naturalist in his \"Nietzsche on Morality\" (London: Routledge, 2002) and in later papers, including one with Joshua Knobe on \"The Case for Nietzschean Moral Psychology\" in \"Nietzsche and Morality\" (Oxford University Press, 2007).\n\nIn 2014, when student members of the University College London Union Council informed the \"Nietzsche Club\" that it could no longer declare an affiliation with the school, because the club was promoting \"far-right\" and \"fascist\" ideologies, Leiter first defended the club, saying Nietzsche was not a fascist, but later noted that if the club is a front for a fascist group, then it's a shame that Nietzsche was smeared as a fascist in the discussion.\n\nLeiter's most recent book, \"Why Tolerate Religion?\", published by Princeton University Press, has proved controversial. The political philosopher John Gray wrote, \"A model of clarity and rigour and at points strikingly original, this is a book that anyone who thinks seriously about religion, ethics and politics will benefit from reading.\"\nChristopher L. Eisgruber, the President of Princeton University, said. \"Every reader will learn something from this remarkable book, and, beginning now, every serious scholar of religious toleration will have to contend with Leiter's bold claims.\" By contrast, the website of the conservative Family Research Council said the book was \"one of the most troubling and intellectually discreditable books by a serious American scholar in some time.\" The book was named an \"Outstanding Academic Title\" by \"Choice\" in 2013.\n\nLeiter has also published work on meta-ethics, social epistemology, the law of evidence, and on philosophers Karl Marx, Martin Heidegger, and Ronald Dworkin.\n\nIn 1989, while he was a graduate student Leiter made a list of what he believed to be the top 25 graduate philosophy programs in the United States. Called the Philosophical Gourmet Report, this list came to be known as \"the Leiter Report\" and has been internationally recognized Published by Wiley-Blackwell, and controversial ranking of graduate programs in philosophy in the English-speaking world.\n\nThe PGR was described by David L. Kirp in a 2003 \"New York Times\" op-ed as \"the bible for prospective [philosophy] graduate students.\" George Yancy, in \"Reframing the Practice of Philosophy: Bodies of Color, Bodies of Knowledge\" (SUNY Press, 2012), opined that Philosophical Gourmet Report ranking: \"is, of course, very controversial. However, as is often pointed out, there is no real alternative.\" Carlin Romano, in \"America the Philosophical\" (Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2013), referred to the PGR rankings as \"often-criticized\" and \"biased towards mainstream analytic departments\" although it covers Continental philosophy as well.\n\nIn 2002, 175 philosophers signed an open letter calling on Leiter to stop producing the PGR. In fall 2014, over 600 philosophers signed a petition to boycott the PGR organized by some philosophers at University of British Columbia to protest what they called a \"derogatory and intimidating\" e-mail sent by Leiter to one of their colleagues, who Leiter claimed had threatened him. 24 of the 56 members of the Advisory Board of the PGR thought it best that he relinquish control over the Report's management.\n\nIn response, Leiter appointed a co-editor for the 2014 report Berit Brogaard, a philosophy professor at the University of Miami and agreed to step down as editor after its publication. Leiter dismissed the criticisms as coming from people whose organizations had received a poor ranking, or from feminists upset with his stance in favor of due process for men accused of sexual harassment. He subsequently retained a lawyer to sue the organizers of the 2014 protest for defamation.\n\n\"The Australian\" reported that \n\nProfessor Leiter ... said there had never been any impropriety in his administration of the report but \"if someone feels editing the PGR means forfeiting certain expressive rights, then I accept that they have a reason not to participate while I remain as one of the editors. And since I value my expressive rights (including my right to express myself in ways some others may find offensive), that gives me an additional reason to dissociate from the PGR so that those philosophers will, I hope, participate in the future.\" At least, unlike Socrates, Professor Leiter isn't being forced to drink hemlock for saying it as he sees it.\n\nLeiter has also edited a ranking of U.S. law schools, which \"The Washington Post\" describes as \"well-known,\" and was hired by \"Maclean's\" magazine in Canada to produce a ranking of Canadian law schools.\n\nLeiter is a prolific blogger, running three blogs, one on philosophy (and political commentary), one on law, and one on Nietzsche. Leiter's philosophy blog includes both professional news and polemics, for example, critiques of proponents of intelligent design, and the 2003 Invasion of Iraq. He has also written critiques of journalists and philosophers, including Romano, Thomas Nagel, Leon Wieseltier, and Paul Campos.\n\nLeiter is a vigorous defender of academic freedom. He spoke in support of Steven Salaita, both on-line and on television, and Rebecca Tuvel, the philosopher criticized during the Hypatia transracialism controversy. He also wrote in \"The New York Times\" in defense of John Yoo against calls for Berkeley to investigate him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23627937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23627937", "title": "College Now Greater Cleveland", "text": "College Now Greater Cleveland\n\nCleveland Scholarship Programs(now College Now Greater Cleveland) was established in 1966 by Robert Coplan, one of the founders of the Benesch, Friedlander, Coplan, and Aronoff law firm. Since then, it has grown into one of the nation’s leading college access program. They have received national recognition and are recognized as being one of the first organizations of its type, and a precursor to other similar organizations located in Baltimore, Boston, Columbus, Miami, Santa Barbara, Washington, D.C. and numerous other cities.\n\nCollege Now helps families and children by providing access to postsecondary education. Since they began 43 years ago, College Now(then CSP) has helped more than 200,000 students go through the college and financial aid application process and has awarded more than $42 million in scholarships. College Now provides college access services to Cuyahoga County residents interested in enrolling in four-year universities, community colleges and vocational and technical programs. College Now offers:\n\n\nCollege Now serves students from kindergarten through high school in Cuyahoga and Lorain counties, and adult learners who want to return to college in 11 Northeast Ohio Counties: Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, Lorain, Mahoning, Medina, Portage, Stark, Summit, and Trumbull.\n\nCollege Now's college advisors are present at many North-East Ohio public high schools to assist students through one-on-one advising and group sessions. Many advisors are present throughout the majority of the academic year and may be in each school one or more days per week.\n\nCollege Now's programs help thousands of students in North East Ohio. These programs include, but are not limited to, the Early Awareness, Educational Talent Search, GEAR UP and Learn-to-Work programs.\n\nMany scholarships average $1,300 per student and are renewable for four years, if the students continue to meet specified requirements. During fiscal year 2007-2008, College Now paid a total $2,865,715 in scholarships to more than 2,000 individuals. This represents a 6 percent increase in the number of students awarded scholarships from the previous academic year.\n\nCollege Now also administers scholarships for companies and organizations for a fee. For fiscal year 2007-2008, College Now administered $584,833 for over twenty scholarship programs.\n\nOne of College Now's newest programs is the Top 50 Program throughout the Cleveland Metropolitan School District(CMSD). in the Top 50 program, 50 students(or more, depending on circumstances) in the CMSD are chosen for extra one-on-one advising with a selected College Now advisor. Some of the benefits of participating in the CMSD Top 50 Program are:\n\n\nThe criteria (as of the 2011-2012 academic year) for being chosen and/or accepted into the program depends mainly on a student's standardized test scores and grade point average, but can also depend on other additional factors as well.\n\nStudents in the Top 50 program are encouraged to apply to prestigious and ivy league schools/universities that otherwise may be thought of as out of reach for Cleveland high school seniors. A few individuals in the Top 50 Program (as of the 2011-2012 school year) have been accepted to such universities as Harvard and Stanford, showing the success of the program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1433337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1433337", "title": "EFMD Quality Improvement System", "text": "EFMD Quality Improvement System\n\nThe EFMD Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) is a school accreditation system. It specializes in higher education institutions of management and business administration, run by the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD). EQUIS has accredited 172 institutions in 41 countries around the world.\n\nEQUIS' directors as of 2018 are Ulrich Hommel and David Asch. In the past 20 years of existence the organization has accredited 172 institutions in 41 countries.\n\nThe accreditation is awarded to business schools based on general quality. The process also takes into account the business school's level of internationalization, which is not a strict requirement for accreditation by the other two major international accreditation bodies: AACSB and AMBA. So far, all fully accredited EQUIS business schools applying for AACSB accreditation have succeeded, which has not been the case the other way.\n\nEQUIS accreditation can be granted for three years (with annual progress reports on the areas of improvement required) or for five years (with a mid-term progress report on development objectives required).\n\n"}
{"id": "11620122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620122", "title": "Early college high school", "text": "Early college high school\n\nThe Early College High School Initiative in the United States allows students to receive a high school diploma and an associate degree, or up to two years of college credit, by taking a mixture of high school and college classes. This differs from dual enrollment, where students are enrolled in a traditional high school and take college classes, whereas early college students take high school classes in preparation for full college workloads. At early colleges, students also have fewer high school classes because some of their college classes replace their high school classes. Early colleges differ from closely related middle colleges. ECHS students spend their school day at college, and go to their home school occasionally for events such as football games, homecoming, and prom. \n\nThe ECHS Initiative began in 2002 with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, among others. The first early college in the United States, Bard College at Simon's Rock, was founded in 1966. Today, more than 230 early colleges across 28 states serve 50,000+ students.\n\n\nFourteen intermediary partners work directly with early college schools, school districts, and postsecondary institutions. They provide start-up and ongoing technical support, guidance, and professional development for their networks of schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22351791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22351791", "title": "Eleanor Duckworth", "text": "Eleanor Duckworth\n\nEleanor Ruth Duckworth (born 1935) is a teacher, teacher educator, and educational theorist.\n\nDuckworth earned her Ph.D. (Docteur en sciences de l'éducation) at the Université de Genève in 1977. She grounds her work in Jean Piaget and Bärbel Inhelder's insights into the nature and development of understanding and intelligence and in their clinical interview method. Duckworth also has been an elementary school teacher. Her participation in the 1960s curriculum development projects Elementary Science Study and African Primary Science Program was germinal for her insights and practices in exploratory methods in teaching and learning. She has conducted teacher education, curriculum development, and program evaluation in the United States, Europe, Latin America, Africa, Asia and her native Canada. Duckworth is also a coordinator of Cambridge United for Justice with Peace and a performing modern dancer.\n\nDuckworth is the daughter of Jack and Muriel Duckworth, Canadian peace workers and social and community activists. She is named after Eleanor Roosevelt. Jack Duckworth, born in 1897, was a highly regarded leader in the national YMCA movement and an outspoken pacifist from the 1930s until his death in 1975. Muriel Duckworth, born in 1908 (maiden name Ball), who celebrated her hundredth birthday on October 31, 2008, was renowned as a crusader for social justice, women's rights, de-militarization, educational development and fighting poverty. She was one of the 1000 women worldwide nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005.\n\nDuckworth studied ballet in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as a student of Irene Apinee and Jury Gotshalks, and danced in the Gotshalks Halifax Ballet. She stopped her dance studies at the age of 15, and started again at the age of 58.\n\nShe is the sister of Montreal filmmaker Martin Duckworth, and Nova Scotia businessman and musician John Duckworth.\n\nPiaget first influenced the child study and progressive education movement in Europe with publications such as ' (1923) and ' (1924), translated into English in the 1920s, and his experiments showing how young children understand size and volume were exhibited in the London Science Museum in the 1950s. However, Piaget's work was little known in the North American educational community after World War II until Eleanor Duckworth, a student of Piaget at that time, introduced his methods and analysis into the classroom and the US educational research community.\n\nEleanor Duckworth first met Jean Piaget in 1957 in Paris at the Sorbonne where she was a graduate student. For the next two years Duckworth studied with Jean Piaget and Bärbel Inhelder at the Institut des Sciences de l'Education in Geneva, Switzerland. She served as a research and teaching assistant for the second of those years. She subsequently entered a doctoral program in cognitive psychology at Harvard University, and dropped out. For the years to come, the work with Piaget and Inhelder would have an important impact on her thinking and further development. She returned to Geneva to finish her doctorate.\n\nAt Inhelder's recommendation, Duckworth began to participate in the Elementary Science Study (ESS) in 1962, a curriculum development and science education reform project that grew out of MIT and became the foundation of the organization now known as Education Development Center. The project was initiated by Jerrold Zacharias and participating scientists and teachers included, among others, David Hawkins, Mike Savage, Philip Morrison, Phylis Morrison, Ben Nichols, Claryce Evans, Lynn Margulis, Marion Walter, David Webster, Ed Prenowitz, Mike Rice, Cap Weston, Elsa Dorfman, and Edith Churchill. The project involved \"[putting] physical materials into children's hands from the start and help[ing] each child investigate through these materials the nature of the world around him [stet]\" (ESS, 1970, p. 7). Teachers and students experimented with natural materials like bulbs, batteries, pendulums or butterflies, ice cubes and earthworms. During her four years as a staff member at the ESS, Duckworth struggled to incorporate the theory and clinical method of Piaget into the work she and her colleagues did in classrooms (Duckworth, 2006, p. 1).\n\nA breakthrough for communicating Piaget's work to a broader educational community occurred in 1964, when Duckworth acted as the English translator and interpreter of Piaget during a bi-coastal conference at Cornell University and University of California, Berkeley. Duckworth reported to her colleagues at the ESS about the conference by writing a short paper, \"Piaget Rediscovered\". This paper gave its name to the book that came out of the conference, a collection of papers on developmental psychology and curriculum development. The book was instrumental in re-awakening interest in Piaget's work among educators.\n\nDeciding to devote herself to education, she sought work as elementary school teacher in Montreal. In 1970 she took a job at the Atlantic Institute of Education, in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as director of \"The Lighthouse Project\", a curriculum development and teacher education program for the four Atlantic provinces of Canada.\n\nCollaborating with Jeanne Bamberger at the Division for Study and Research in Education at MIT, they initiated \"The Teacher Project\". During this project Duckworth and Bamberger worked to facilitate research experiences among teachers who worked in elementary schools in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1978. Duckworth continued to work with a smaller group of these same teachers for seven more years. This group, the Moon Group, explored the behaviour of the moon as a practice of learning and teaching.\n\nDuckworth wrote essays based on some of these experiences with Piaget, the Cambridge Teacher Project, the Moon Group, and her own teaching in her landmark book \"The Having of Wonderful Ideas\" (1987|2006).\n\nWithin teacher education in the United States in the twentieth century, Duckworth's contributions relate to a progressive or developmentalist approach. The idea of a teacher acting as a researcher is embraced by the following four traditions of reflective teaching practice: academic, social efficiency, developmentalist and social reconstructivist. The developmentalist tradition considers that the teacher is both a practitioner and a researcher: \"The teacher as researcher strand of this tradition has emphasized the need to foster the teacher's experimental attitude toward practice and to help teachers initiate and sustain ongoing inquiries in their own classroom\" (Zeichner, 1992, p. 165).\n\nDuckworth (2006, p. xiii) wrote in her book \"The Having of Wonderful Ideas\" that she built her developmental approach on two foundations very powerful to her: \n\nAs a constructivist who defines teaching as helping people learn, Duckworth emphasizes the importance of engaging learners with phenomena, understanding students' current understandings and trying to facilitate students' own thinking. The central question of Duckworth's (2006: xiv) research over five decades continues to be: \"How do people learn and what can anyone do to help?\" In the process of investigating this question, she has developed a research method which she has called expanded clinical interviewing, teaching/learning research and critical exploration. These three phrases emerged in the course of her research and are used interchangeably (Duckworth, 2006, p. xv).\n\nBärbel Inhelder first applied the name critical exploration to Piaget's clinical interviewing which included observing children as well as interviewing and interacting with a child who is experimenting and investigating a problem set by the researcher. Inhelder introduced this method to pedagogical contexts (Inhelder, Sinclair & Bovet, 1974, p. 18–20). Duckworth (2005b, p. 258–259) describes critical exploration as having two facets: curriculum development and pedagogy. In the context of critical exploration, curriculum development means: the teacher is planning how to engage students' minds in exploring the subject matter. Pedagogy constitutes the practice by which teachers invite students to express their thoughts:\nDuring critical exploration, exploring goes on in two modes: In one mode, the child explores the subject matter and in the other mode, the researcher-teacher explores the child's thinking. Hence, for the teacher, critical exploration finds itself at the nexus of research and teaching where teacher and learner support each other (Shorr, 2007, p. 369–370):\nConsequently, Duckworth (2008b) suggests that a classroom teacher can take on the role of a researcher. The teacher explores too, by interacting with students' learning. It is the teacher's work to present engaging problems, and attend to students' ways of figuring them out helping them to notice what's interesting. For example, the teacher listens to students explain their ideas and asks them questions that seek to take students' thinking further (Duckworth, 2006, p. 173–174).\n\nOutlining her approach, Duckworth (2006, p. 173) states: \"As a student of Piaget, I was convinced that people must construct their own knowledge and must assimilate new experiences in ways that make sense to them. I knew that, more often than not, simply telling students what we want them to know leaves them cold\". Considering learning and teaching, critical exploration stresses the following aspects:\n\nIf teachers are to teach their students exploratively, they must have experienced learning as explorers themselves (Duckworth, 2006). In the teacher education work that Duckworth does at Harvard University and elsewhere, she provides teachers with the opportunity to live through and think about the phenomena of teaching and learning. She involves teacher education students in the effort to understand somebody else's understanding. She considers it important for teachers to know what their students are understanding, that is: what sense the students are making of the subject matter (Duckworth in Meek, 1991, p. 32).\n\nIn her courses at Harvard University she applies her teaching approach by using critical exploration to teach critical exploration. Her famous T-440 course titled \"Teaching and Learning: \"The Having of Wonderful Ideas\"\" is usually conducted with two parallel groups, each having up to 50 teacher education students. Duckworth states on her course website: \"The course starts from the premise that there are endless numbers of adequate pathways for people to come to understand subject matters. Curriculum and assessment must build on this diversity. A second premise is that every person can get involved with and enjoy and get good at every subject matter.\"\n\nIn her university teaching Duckworth (2006, p. 9 and 173–192) tries to engage teacher education students with three major kinds of teaching and learning phenomena:\n\nIn the summer of 2013 Professor Duckworth went to the south of England as the guest of honor of the holistic Brockwood Park School for the education conference taking place there entitled \"When is Teaching? Getting in or out of the way at the right time\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48609970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48609970", "title": "Faith de Villiers", "text": "Faith de Villiers\n\nFaith de Villiers (21 October 1920 – October 2001) was a South African dancer, producer, choreographer, teacher, company director, and adjudicator. Active primarily in the northern province of the Transvaal (since divided into Gauteng, Mpumalanga, and Limpopo), she is recognized as one of the most influential pioneers of ballet in South Africa.\n\nFaith de Villiers was born in Johannesburg, the largest city in the Transvaal and the center of gold mining and industry in South Africa. Her father was a descendant of French Hugenots who had come to the Dutch Cape Colony in the days of early settlement. Most such families learned Afrikaans and were assimilated into Afrikaner culture, because of similarities in their Protestant religious beliefs, and most had stayed in the Cape Province. Faith's ancestors had moved north to Johannesburg, however, and had become resolutely Anglophonic and Anglophilic, speakers of English and lovers of all things British. She began her dance training at an early age, with Delphine Thompson, a pupil of one of the founders of the Cecchetti Society in South Africa. At age 12, she entered the Johannesburg Cambrian Society National Eisteddfod and was judged best all-around dancer in the 11- to 13-year-old category. The gold medal, presented to her by Dulcie Howes, the adjudicator and a national celebrity, was accompanied by a bursary that started her off on her career in dance.\n\nAt age 18, de Villiers got a temporary dancing job with the Carl Rosa Opera Company when it toured South Africa for three months in 1938. Her earnings allowed her to travel to London, where she studied under Margaret Craske, a teacher of the Cecchetti method of ballet training, and Igor Schwezoff, a Russian who had trained at the Leningrad Choreographic School. At the time, war clouds were gathering over continental Europe, and it did not seem prudent for her to remain much longer in England.\n\nDe Villiers returned to Johannesburg in 1939 and became ballet mistress, choreographer, and ensemble director for African Consolidated Theatres. After some years, she formed her own performing group, Ballet Theatre, with Joyce van Geems, in 1947. It was the first of several such troupes that she would initiate. The next year, she married and moved to Cape Town, where she began teaching at the school of the South African National Ballet, producing ballets, and touring the group to nearby Stellenbosch and Paarl. She returned frequently to Johannesburg, despite the great distance, to continue her work with African Consolidated Theatres. With her husband and child, she moved back to her home city in 1952 and continued producing ballets for performances in cities and towns throughout the Transvaal and in neighboring Mozambique. When Yvonne Mounsey returned to South Africa from New York in 1959, de Villiers joined her in founding the Johannesburg City Ballet, of which she became artistic director in 1961. The company was renamed Ballet Transvaal and then, in 1963, PACT Ballet, so called for the Performing Arts Council of the Transvaal and known in Afrikaans as TRUK Ballet, for the Transvaalse Raad vir die Uitvoerende Kunste.\n\nWith a government subsidy, PACT Ballet became a fully professional, bilingual company, guided by de Villiers as artistic manager from 1964 until 1969. During her five-year tenure in this position, she was responsible for bringing the great French ballerina Yvette Chauviré to dance \"Giselle\" in theaters in Johannesburg and nearby Pretoria. She hired Alexander Bennett, a former Royal Ballet principal, to be ballet master and to produce \"Coppélia, Aurora's Wedding\" (\"Aurora se Huwelik\"), and Frederick Ashton's \"Les Patineurs\". In 1965, Yvonne Mounsey staged a version of the \"pas de deux\" from Jerome Robbins's \"Interplay\" (\"Heen-en-weer-spel\"); Peter Clegg recreated Ashton's \"Façade\"; and de Villiers herself mounted Walter Gore's production of \"Casse Noisette\" (\"The Nutcracker, Die Neutkraker\") for the Christmas season at the splendid, new Civic Theatre. She brought Roland Petit and Zizi Jeanmaire to Johannesburg to stage \"Carmen\" and Françoise Adret to choreograph a new \"Cinderella\", with Galina Samsova in the title role. Both ballets, mounted with striking sets and sumptuous costumes, were popular successes. When Frank Staff arrived as resident choreographer, he mounted his charming \"Peter and the Wolf,\" originally created for Ballet Rambert in London, and created seven new works for the company, including \"Five Faces of Euridice\" (\"Vyf Fasette van Euridice\", 1965), \"Czernyana III\" (1966), and \"Raka\" (1967).\n\nUnder de Villiers's aegis, PACT Ballet performed in many major cities of South Africa, including Pretoria, Bloemfontein, Kimberley, Durban, and Cape Town. It also traveled across the Limpopo River to Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), where it was presented by the Rhodesian National Ballet in performances in Salisbury (now Harare), Bulawayo, and Gwelo (now Gweru). Concurrent with administering such activity, de Villiers began a major outreach to Transvaal schools and the general public. A grant from the provincial Department of Arts and Sciences allowed her to tour two groups of company members (\"the Midgets\" and \"the Giants\") to perform programs of \"divertissements\" and short ballets on stages in school auditoriums and town halls in \"dorpies\" on the Highveld and the Bushveld of the vast Transvaal. Among the works presented was \"Allegro di Concierto\" (1965), a work evocative of a storm at sea, set by de Villiers to the piano music of Enrique Granados. Besides acting as choreographer, administrator, and impresario, de Villiers was a cheerful \"mother hen\" of her company, mindful of the welfare of her dancers and their futures. She was mentor to several South African ballerinas, including Sandra Lipman and Noleen Nicol, who went on to international careers in European companies, and Dawn Weller, who had a decades-long career in PACT Ballet as dancer, artistic director, and prima ballerina.\n\nAs chair of the Cecchetti Society of Southern Africa for twenty-five years, and as a senior major examiner on both the national and international circuits, de Villiers was devoted to supporting the Cecchetti method of teaching ballet. Recipient of the Enrico Cecchetti Medal in 1971, she was also honored with the Imperial Medal by the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing, London, in recognition of her service to its Cecchetti Branch. She received the Southern African Cecchetti dedication award in 1996 and continued to promote ballet during her close involvement with the Val Whyte Bursary. For many years, she acted as adjudicator, with Dulcie Howes, of the Choreographic Award sponsored by the South African government,\n\nIn 1948, de Villiers married Thomas Renwick, an executive with the Otis Elevator Company, with whom she had one child. After both he and she retired, they moved from Johannesburg to Umhlanga Rocks, a seaside community north of Durban (now eThukwini) in KwaZulu-Natal. An avid gardener, a quixotic bridge player, and a steadfast friend to many, she was a woman of optimism, good will, and apparently boundless energy. Her passionate enthusiasm for ballet was undiminished until the end of her life in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "5688828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5688828", "title": "Francis J. Tedesco", "text": "Francis J. Tedesco\n\nFrancis J. Tedesco (born in Derby, Connecticut, c. 1943) served as the President of the Medical College of Georgia from July 1, 1988, until his retirement on February 1, 2001. \n\nDuring his presidency, the university expanded with more research programs, clinical care centers and buildings. The quality of education also increased during his presidency with competitive admission and most students passing their board exams. The American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy awarded Tedesco the 1993 Rudolf Schindler Award, its highest distinction in recognition of his contributions to gastrointestinal endoscopy.\n\nTedesco joined the Medical College of Georgia faculty in 1978 as Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief, Section of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine. He was promoted to Professor in 1981. He served as Acting Vice President for Clinical Activities for a period of time before assuming the permanent role in 1984. He served as Interim Dean, School of Medicine, from 1986 to 1988.\n\nTedesco graduated from high school in Fairfield, Connecticut, in 1961, Fairfield University (cum laude) in 1965, and the St. Louis University School of Medicine (cum laude) in 1969. He is a diplomate of the National Board of Medical Examiners and the American Board of Internal Medicine with certification in gastroenterology.\n\n"}
{"id": "28971551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28971551", "title": "GEMS Education", "text": "GEMS Education\n\nGEMS Education, founded as Global Education Management Systems (GEMS), is an international education company. It is a global advisory and educational management firm, and is the largest operator of kindergarten-to-grade-12 schools in the world, with a network of over 70 schools in over a dozen countries. Founded by Sunny Varkey, GEMS provides pre-school, primary, and secondary education. Through its consultancy arm, GEMS Education Solutions, the company works internationally with public and private sector clients on school improvement initiatives.\n\nThe Varkey Foundation, formerly known as the Varkey GEMS Foundation, is the philanthropic arm of GEMS Education. It aims to impact 100 underprivileged children for every child enrolled in a GEMS school.\n\nFounded and headquartered in Dubai, GEMS has offices in the United Kingdom, the United States, Singapore, India, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Egypt, Kenya, Switzerland, and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nGEMS Education has its roots in a family tutoring business in Dubai started by Indian-born teachers K.S. and Mariama Varkey in 1959. The discovery of oil in Dubai in 1966 brought in many foreign workers to the undeveloped emirate, including many from the Indian subcontinent. With the increased demand for an English-language education for the children of Indian expatriates, the Varkeys founded Our Own English High School in Dubai in 1968.\n\nWhen in 1980 local authorities insisted that Our Own English High School be housed in a purpose-built facility, the Varkeys' son Sunny Varkey took over the operation of the school, which taught less than 400 students at the time. He soon expanded the school, and added new schools as well. The education situation in Dubai was ripe for expansion, since local schools were only for native Arabs, and the children of the ever-increasing number of expats needed education of their own. Under his umbrella business organization the Varkey Group, Sunny Varkey opened Indian, Pakistani, and British schools, and offered education under the different curricula: Indian (Central Board of Secondary Education and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education), U.S., British, and later International Baccalaureate, French, and dual and local curricula.\n\nAfter creating a strong network of schools in the Gulf Arab states, in 2000 Varkey established Global Education Management Systems (GEMS), an advisory and educational management firm, in advance of his worldwide overseas expansion. In 2003, he began opening GEMS schools in England, beginning with Sherborne House in Hampshire and Bury Lawn in Milton Keynes. Soon afterwards, he took over Sherfield School in Hampshire, and purchased another 10 schools in England, mainly in the north.\n\nIn 2004, the GEMS group opened its first schools in India. Varkey continued to add schools in the subcontinent, and also purchased a controlling interest in the India-based Everonn Education, which the Varkey Group and GEMS manage. GEMS subsequently opened schools in Africa, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and Europe. It is the largest operator of private kindergarten-to-grade-12 schools in the world, and as of 2015 has over 70 schools in over a dozen countries. Its two schools in the U.S. are in Chicago: a pre-school, and the pre-school through elementary school GEMS World Academy-Chicago, which opened in 2014 and will eventually extend through grade 12.\n\nIn 2010 GEMS Education became an official member of the World Economic Forum (WEF) as one of WEF's Global Growth Companies. In 2012, it became a Global Growth Company 'Partner', entitling it to attend the World Economic Forum's flagship annual meeting in Davos. Also in 2010, former U.S. president Bill Clinton named GEMS Education a strategic partner of the Clinton Global Initiative, which convenes global leaders to devise and implement innovative solutions to some of the world's most pressing challenges.\n\nIn 2012 GEMS Education received the School of Educators Global Education Awards' Lifetime Achievement Award for Global School Education. That year it was also named Education Company of the Year at the Gulf Business Industry Awards, and it also received that same award in 2013.\n\nGEMS schools are established in various price brackets, to serve all markets and income levels. The more expensive schools have more spacious grounds and amenities such as golf and tennis facilities, and smaller class sizes. Educational quality is maintained in the budget-range schools by using excellent teachers, by efficiency and economisation on time and space, and by capitalising on its broad experience: the huge network of GEMS schools shares resources and information and provides training to teachers across the whole system. When entering into new markets GEMS schools also benefit from local partners who understand local conditions; the partners provide local knowledge that may not be obvious through standard market research.\n\nGEMS schools aim to instill students with universal values, and are geared to form graduates who are global citizens with leadership qualities. GEMS aims to equip children to live in a multicultural environment, and stresses the importance of giving back to others both locally and globally.\n\nGEMS has two divisions: schools and educational services. GEMS Education Solutions is the consultancy arm of GEMS Education, providing educational services and advice. It was established in 2011, taking on projects mainly in the UK, Africa, and Asia. It works with governments and non-profits, and public and private clients.\n\nOne of GEMS Education Solutions' projects is assisting and advising the state school system in the United Arab Emirates. In Saudi Arabia, via the Oxford Partnership, GEMS Education Solutions co-manages three newly built women's vocational colleges. The three-year diploma programmes include training in IT, communication, basic sciences, and English language, before moving onto specialisation and on-the-job training.\n\nIn Ghana, GEMS Education Solutions implements MGCubed – Making Ghana Girls Great – which equips two classrooms in each Ghanaian primary school with a computer, projector, satellite modem, and solar panels, creating an interactive distance-learning platform to deliver both formal in-school teaching and informal after-school training. The project teaches 8,000 students in 72 Ghanaian schools, and is Sub-Saharan Africa's first interactive distance-learning project. The program aims to prevent dropping out and under-achieving among girls. Students participate more in these classes, in contrast to the standard system of learning by rote, and the video system also cuts down on teacher absenteeism. Each week, the project also brings in a role model – a successful Ghanaian woman – to speak to the students nationwide.\n\nIn 2014 GEMS Education Solutions published a study called The Efficiency Index, analyzing which public education systems, by country, deliver the best value for money. Basing its analysis on Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) scores, the study also detailed teacher salaries and class sizes in nationwide schools. Analyzing the results, \"The Economist\" noted the opinion of GEMS' Adam Still that \"many of the highest spenders have probably passed 'peak efficiency' – the point at which more money brings diminishing returns\", and of PISA's Andreas Schleicher that \"Quality of teachers has a clearer impact than class size\". Writing in \"Forbes\", Michael Horn wrote that the report does not take into account the extensive after-school tutoring that most public-school students receive in South Korea, which ranked second on the list after Finland. In the \"BBC News\" review of the report, it noted that \"The study highlights that smaller class sizes or teachers' pay are not necessarily linked to better results\", yet conversely \"Underpaying teachers can also be seen as 'inefficient' because it is a barrier to recruiting good quality staff – with low pay contributing to Brazil and Indonesia's poor performance in these rankings.\"\n\nThe philanthropic arm of GEMS Education is the Varkey Foundation. It was founded in 2010 as the Varkey GEMS Foundation, and intends to impact 100 impoverished children for every child enrolled at GEMS schools, via enrolment and education-access initiatives, worldwide teacher training programs, advocacy campaigns, and physical projects such as building classrooms, schools, and learning centers. Bill Clinton launched the foundation.\n\nIn March 2011, the foundation partnered with UNESCO for girls' education in Lesotho and Kenya, and donated $1,000,000 to the effort. In September 2011, a further $1 million was pledged with UNESCO to train 10,000 school principals in India, Ghana, and Kenya. In 2014, the foundation's Teacher Training Programme committed to train 250,000 teachers within 10 years in under-served communities across the world.\n\nIn 2013, the foundation helped launch the annual Global Education and Skills Forum, in partnership with UNESCO and the UAE Ministry of Education. Bill Clinton gave the inaugural keynote address.\n\nAt the second annual forum in March 2014, the foundation announced the Global Teacher Prize, a $1 million award to an exceptional teacher who has made an outstanding contribution to the profession, presented at the third annual GESF in March 2015. Nancie Atwell, an English teacher in rural Maine with 42 years of innovative and pioneering teaching, was awarded the inaugural prize; she donated the full amount to her nonprofit Center for Teaching and Learning, a demonstration school created for the purpose of developing and disseminating teaching methods. The 2016 Global Teacher Prize was awarded to a Palestinian teacher, Hanan Al Hroub. The Varkey Foundation hopes the annual $1million award will become a \"Nobel Prize\" of teaching.\n\nIn 2014 the Varkey Foundation, together with UNESCO, co-created Business Backs Education, a global advocacy campaign that encourages businesses, companies, and corporations to support education to the same degree that they support other basic services such as healthcare. Bill Clinton co-launched the initiative. The Varkey Foundation published a report analyzing the charitable education donations of the global top 500 companies, recommending that education be a higher priority for corporate social responsibility spending.\n\nSunny Varkey is the founder of the GEMS Education Group. His elder son Dino Varkey is an Executive Director of the GEMS Education Group and a Board Member of GEMS Education. Sunny's younger son Jay Varkey is an Executive Director of the GEMS Education Group and a Board Member of GEMS Global. C. N. Radhakrishnan is Senior Executive Director, Head of Chairman's Office, and a Board Member of GEMS Education.\n\nIn 2014, Sir Michael Peat, the former private secretary to Prince Charles from 2002–2011, became the new independent Chairman of GEMS' Board of Directors. This appointment came when Sunny Varkey sold a 20% stake in GEMS' emerging-markets business – covering the Middle East, North Africa, and East Asia – to a consortium of investors led by Fajr Capital and including Blackstone and Mumtalakat Holding Company.\n\nIn other notable appointments, Ralph Tabberer, formerly the Director General of Schools in the UK in the Department for Children, Schools and Families, was GEMS' Chief Schools Officer and Chief Operating Officer from 2009–2012. In 2014, GEMS Education appointed former Eton College headmaster Tony Little as Chief Education Officer; he is responsible for ensuring the quality of education across the global chain.\n\nGEMS Education was founded in Dubai, and its first school there, Our Own English High School, originally opened in 1968. The company still has its strongest presence in Dubai and in the United Arab Emirates. As of 2017, GEMS has 45 schools in the United Arab Emirates, including 30 in Dubai, 7 in Abu Dhabi, 1 in Fujairah, and 4 in Sharjah.\n\nGEMS is the largest education provider in the UAE, and the UAE accounts for more than 90% of its business. The need for quality schools catering to the growing long-term and prosperous expatriate community in the UAE has been expanding rapidly.\n\nFollowing its initial years catering mainly to immigrant Indian workers, GEMS grew rapidly in Dubai. As the emirate developed into an international hub, the expat demographics shifted from short-term workers from a few countries to longterm expat residents with their entire families from countries around the world. GEMS adapted with schools for each demographic, varying and adding new curricula and price ranges for each income level and nationality.\n\nThe curricula that GEMS schools in the UAE offer include:\n\nWith steadily rising immigration, since public schooling is only available for Emirati natives, demand for private schools in Dubai and the UAE has continued to outstrip supply, causing lengthy waiting lists at many schools. Many native Emiratis as well choose to send their children to private schools, and since 2011 the number of native Emirati students in GEMS schools has risen faster than any other nationality. All told, approximately 90% of students in Dubai are in private schools, and with rapidly increasing population, private-school enrolment in Dubai doubled in the decade from 2003 to 2013.\n\nAlthough new private schools in Dubai can begin by charging whatever fees they choose, school-fee increases are controlled, capped, and sometimes frozen, by the Knowledge and Human Development Authority (KHDA), which began rating schools and regulating fee increases accordingly in 2008. This places pressures on the lowest-cost existing schools, which face teacher losses to the new more profitable schools, and an inability to keep pace with inflation and rising rents, salaries, utilities, and facilities maintenance and repairs. In late 2012 GEMS announced the projected June 2014 closure of Westminster School, Dubai, citing fee-increase caps which prevented it from maintaining educational standards and performing educational and infrastructure improvements. After a campaign by parents and students to keep the school open, GEMS announced in May 2013 that the school would remain open.\n\nGEMS schools overall in the UAE have earned a reputation for high-quality academic outcomes, routinely outscoring national testing averages and out-performing originating counterparts in official international curricula examinations. Nearly all students continue on to university, including to many of the world's top universities.\n\nIn the performing arts, GEMS Education in the UAE has held an annual nationwide pre-teen singing competition, Best of the Best, since 2008. A GEMS-school short film competition for GEMS student filmmakers, GEMS Student Voice, has been held yearly in Dubai since 2013. In 2015, by invitation, the students of GEMS Modern Academy in Dubai performed their rock-opera version of \"Shakuntala\" at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.\n\nGEMS UAE has promoted innovation both within the UAE and also worldwide. In 2012 GEMS in the UAE partnered with Springside Chestnut Hill Academy in Philadelphia for a three-day Global Entrepreneurship Bootcamp hosted at GEMS Wellington International School in Dubai. The event brought students from around the world together to design innovative solutions to local problems, and included meetings with a variety civic leaders. GEMS also provides teacher training for over 70 government schools in Abu Dhabi.\n\nIn keeping up with technological advances, in 2009 GEMS in the UAE implemented a customized virtual learning environment (VLE) across its schools; and in 2013 GEMS began installing a Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) wireless system in all of its schools in the UAE. In February 2015 GEMS launched the Blended Learning Plaza, housed at its GEMS Wellington Academy–SiliconOasis, located in Dubai's Silicon Oasis; the facility provides the latest technology in education, enabling collaborative, online, and blended learning opportunities.\n\nGEMS Education in the UAE has partnered with Microsoft in several ways. In 2011 Microsoft launched its \"Innovate, Teach, Inspire\" programme in GEMS schools in the UAE; the programme trains GEMS teachers in the UAE on several Microsoft tools, including Microsoft Office, PowerPoint, Windows Live Movie Maker, Windows Live Blogging, and SkyDrive. Beginning in early 2015 Microsoft granted all GEMS students in the UAE free full access to Office 365 Pro Plus, which includes applications such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, Access, Publisher, Outlook, Lync, and InfoPath, and allows students to run Office on up to five machines and mobile devices across multiple platforms. Microsoft also offered students a series of seminars and online workshops in the various Office 365 Pro Plus technologies.\n\nIn December 2015 GEMS Education and the UAE Ministry of Education launched an annual UAE National Teacher Prize. The winner receives AED1million, and the 21 top nominees train outside the country at some of the best educational institutions in the world. Winners of the prize, now called the Emirates Innovative Teacher Award, are announced annually in February at the Government Summit.\n\nGEMS World Academy in Dubai, which opened in 2008, is the company's flagship school, and is the most expensive school in Dubai. An International Baccalaureate school, its enrolment consists of approximately 2,000 students from more than 80 nationalities. It has a custom-designed planetarium; facilities for arts, sciences, and languages; a robotics lab; TV, radio, and recording studios; and music rooms with Steinway pianos. Its sports facilities include an Olympic-sized swimming pool, football field, running track, tennis courts, squash courts, skating park, gymnasium, and sports hall with retractable seating. It also has a 650-seat auditorium; an amphitheatre; cafés and a roof-top garden; and on-site breakfast or afternoon clubs for parents to meet teachers.\n\nOur Own English High School in Dubai, now exclusively for girls, has an enrolment of 10,000 and tuition that is approximately one-tenth that of GEMS World Academy, while still maintaining academic excellence. It is the world's largest single-location girls school, offers an Indian curriculum, and has a waiting list of several thousand.\n\nGEMS American Academy, Abu Dhabi was opened in 2011 by Bill Clinton. In September 2013 the school hosted basketball star Kobe Bryant for a basketball skills clinic for selected students, as part of the Kobe Bryant Health and Fitness Weekend in the UAE, co-sponsored by GEMS Education; the clinic was also streamed live to GEMS World Academy in Dubai. In 2015 a team of three students from the school competed at New York University's annual Digital Forensics Competition, along with 11 other teams chosen from over 800 teams around the world.\n\nIn 2012 Cambridge International School, Dubai was named by Microsoft as one of the Innovative Pathfinder Schools from around the world, and it is the only school in the UAE to be thus recognised. In 2015 the school, which follows the British curriculum, was recognized as the top school for Arabic in Dubai, in the Education Perfect global language-learning competition's second year to include Dubai.\n\nIn September 2014 GEMS opened GEMS Sports Academy, which is a two-year full-time education within a professional sports-academy development programme, in Dubai. The sports academy is initially hosted at GEMS Wellington Academy–SiliconOasis, and offers a two-year International Baccalaureate diploma programme with professional athletics training.\n\nIn 2010 GEMS took over the management of Kingdom Schools, a subsidiary of Kingdom Holding Company, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The two school campuses, one for boys and one for girls, cover kindergarten through high school and were established in 2000. The school caters to affluent mainly Saudi families, and teaches a bilingual English-Arabic and international curriculum. It contains a number of sports and recreation facilities, science and language labs, and libraries, and includes internet and technological access for each student. In 2012 the school was recognized for being eco-friendly, and for being the first school in Saudi Arabia to adopt basic sustainability concepts.\n\nIn September 2012 GEMS opened The World Academy in King Abdullah Economic City (KAEC) in Saudi Arabia. The academy, which covers kindergarten through high school, is the new city's first school. It offers the International American curriculum leading to International Baccalaureate certification, and was designed to meet international educational standards in the context of Saudi Arabian cultural values. Its facilities, curriculum, and library feature current electronic devices and accessibility, and it contains an English language center for improving English skills. In 2014 construction began to expand the school and add science labs and new design and technology facilities.\n\nIn Egypt, GEMS opened Windrose Academy in Cairo in 2013, offering a blended curriculum focused on the National Curriculum of England. GEMS Academy–Alexandria opened in 2014, with an English and French curriculum.\n\nThe company opened its first school in Qatar, GEMS American Academy, in September 2014. The school is located in Al Wakrah, and offers an American curriculum based around the United States Common Core State Standards, while still valuing the Islamic faith and Qatar’s language, traditions, history, and culture. It provides after-school activities including Spanish club, cultural dance, choir, robotics, and yoga. It opened initially for kindergarten through grade 5, with plans to subsequently expand through high school.\n\nIn the fall of 2015 GEMS opened a school featuring the English National Curriculum in Qatar. The school, GEMS Wellington School–Qatar, is located in Al Wakrah and opened with pre-school through grade 6, with plans to expand through high school in later years.\n\nGEMS acquired and opened schools in England beginning in 2003. Most of its schools in the UK are independent coeducational day schools.\n\nIn the fall of 2003 it acquired Sherborne House in Hampshire – a school for ages 3–11 that was founded in 1933. It is sited on a four-acre campus, and in 2013 a new block of classrooms was added. The school offers scholarships in academic subjects, art, sport, and music, and has a special needs provisions unit. In 2014 the school received the Artsmark Gold award designation from Arts Council England.\n\nAlso in the fall of 2003 GEMS acquired Bury Lawn School in Milton Keynes, northwest of London. The school had been founded in 1970 and was moved to its current site in 1987, and it caters to ages 3–18. In 2005, parents complained publicly following the departure of the fourth head teacher in two years; some parents had also objected to the increase in class sizes from 18 to 24 after GEMS acquired the school. GEMS subsequently withdrew from plans to sponsor two academies, or state-funded independent schools, in Milton Keynes.\n\nAt Bury Lawn GEMS added a new sports hall, music room, dance and drama studio, ICT lab, and mathematics department in 2004, and in 2006 it refurbished the science department and added four new labs. In September 2011 the school was renamed after urban designer Melvin M. Webber, who was responsible for Milton Keynes' unique city layout, and it became the Webber Independent School, with a new head teacher and a new focus. In 2014 Webber Independent was academically the best-performing school in Milton Keynes in GCSEs, and in 2015 it increased its scores despite nationwide downward trends in GCSE results. In A levels, Webber Independent was also the top-performing school in Milton Keynes from 2014–15.\n\nIn 2004 GEMS acquired the site for Sherfield School – the historic estate Sherfield Manor in Hampshire, set on more than 70 acres. The site had previously been a girls' boarding school, North Foreland Lodge, since 1947. GEMS started Sherfield School as a coeducational day school, and added boarding facilities in 2010 and 2015, including residential buildings for students with autism and severe learning disabilities. The school is GEMS' flagship \"premium\" school in the UK, with fees higher than its mid-range schools. It includes extensive sports grounds, facilities, and training; dance training; and an art gallery and artist-in-residence. The school covers ages 3 months to 18 years, and is an International Baccalaureate school.\n\nIn 2004 GEMS also acquired The Hampshire School, Chelsea in Chelsea, London. The school was founded by June Hampshire in Surrey in 1928, and moved to London in 1933. It is an independent co-educational day school for children between the ages of 3 and 13, and since 2009 has been housed in the former historic Chelsea Library, a listed building.\n\nGEMS had acquired The Hampshire School, Chelsea from Nord Anglia Education. At that time in 2004 GEMS acquired a total of 10 schools, seven of them in northern England, from Nord Anglia, which had re-focused on its nursery-school business. In 2007 GEMS announced the sale of Kingswood College in Lancashire to developers, citing the high costs of maintaining its premises, Scarisbrick Hall, a historic 19th-century Grade I listed building; local supporters purchased it and kept it open as a school. By July 2013 GEMS had sold all of its schools in the north of England. After class sizes dropped to less than half, GEMS also sold Bolitho School in Penzance in 2015; GEMS had taken over the school in 2010 when it was in receivership and when pupil numbers were already in decline.\n\nIn 2013 GEMS set up GEMS Learning Trust, an education charity with academy-sponsorship status approved by the Department for Education, and established to run no-fee free schools and academies in the UK. It is sponsored by GEMS Education Solutions, the public-sector management and delivery arm of GEMS Education. Its Twickenham Primary Academy opened in September 2015 in Twickenham, Richmond upon Thames, London; beginning with Reception classes it caters to children ages 4 to 11. Its Didcot Primary Academy, for nursery to age 11, opened in September 2016 in Didcot, Oxfordshire in a new development designed to accommodate the town's expanding population.\n\nGEMS' Cambridge International School in Dasuya in Punjab opened in 2006. The tutelage spans from nursery through grade 12, and the school offers Indian (CBSE) and British (IGCSE) curriculums. Beginning as a co-educational day school, in 2010 it added a boys' hostel for boarders. The school is on an 8-acre campus and includes a variety of science, ICT, sports, and extra-curricular facilities. \"Education World\" ranks the school No. 1 in Hoshiarpur, No. 3 in the state of Punjab, and No. 35 in India as of 2015. At the 2015 World Education Summit, the school won the prize for Innovation in Teaching Pedagogy.\n\nThe GEMS Cambridge International School in Hoshiarpur, Punjab opened in 2008. It is a day cum residential school and offers the CBSE and IGCSE curriculums. The campus is 15 acres and includes labs for sciences and ICT, studios for arts and performing arts, and indoor and outdoor sports areas and swimming pool. A team of students from the school and from GEMS Cambridge International School in Batala were selected to perform bhangra dance at the cultural celebrations at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. In 2013 cricketer Harbhajan Singh inaugurated his Institute of Cricket at the school.\n\nGEMS International School in Gurgaon in the New Delhi area was launched in April 2010. The school, which accepts toddlers through grade 12, has a five-acre campus, offers the CBSE curriculum, and is a day-boarding school. All classrooms have Smart Boards and LCD screens. Sports facilities include basketball court, tennis court, football field, skating rink, and cricket field. The school has science labs, a mathematics lab, a language lab, and ICT labs. Special facilities include a dance room, music room, art & craft room, and video conferencing room. In the off-season a summer camp is available with a variety of activities for 3- to 16-year-olds, including non–GEMs students.\n\nGEMS Akademia International School in Kolkata opened in April 2011. The school has a 20-acre campus, and offers day, day-boarding, and residential options. As of 2015, the school is ranked No. 1 in Kolkata, No. 3 in the state of West Bengal, and No. 63 in India by \"Education World\". It comprises nursery through grade 12, and teaches the CIE and CISCE curriculums. Facilities include labs for multiple sciences, mathematics, languages, and computers; arts and performing arts facilities; and a variety of indoor and outdoor sports facilities.\n\nGEMS Cambridge International School in Batala, Punjab opened in 2011. It offers a dual curriculum of either Indian (CBSE) or British (CIE) options. Facilities include science labs, mathematics lab, computer science lab, swimming pool, indoor sports courts, dance studios, and music rooms. As of 2015 the school caters to play-school through year 7, with day and day-boarding options.\n\nGEMS Modern Academy in Gurgaon in the New Delhi area opened in 2014. It is a day and boarding facility for children from pre-kindergarten through grade 12. It is a CBSE school with multiple facilities for arts, sports, sciences, technology, and academics on a five-acre campus. It also offers a summer camp for sports, fitness, arts, and other activities.\n\nGEMS opened its first school in sub-Saharan Africa in Kenya – GEMS Cambridge International School in Nairobi – in September 2012. The school's capacity is 2,000 students, including boarders, from kindergarten through year 13. It offers the British curriculum, and IGCSE exams as well as British-style A-levels for graduates. In 2014, a 6-lane, 400-metre tartan track was completed on the school grounds, to aid young athletes; it also allows Kenya's elite athletes to train in their speed work. The school's numerous sports facilities also include hockey fields and basketball and tennis courts.\n\nIn August 2015, the GEMS Cambridge International School in Nairobi launched the Lego Education Innovation Studio, a $55,000 facility and program in partnership with Lego Education that teaches and strengthens Science, Technology, Engineering, Math, and Literacy at all age levels, and encourages critical thinking, creativity, innovation, problem-solving, and collaboration. The curriculum and equipment provide a hands-on learning approach that actively involves students in their own learning process.\n\nGEMS Cambridge International School in Uganda opened in September 2013, in the Ugandan capital city of Kampala. It serves pupils ages 3 to 18, with the British curriculum geared toward IGCSE, AS-level, and A-level qualifications. The school also encourages an appreciation of Ugandan culture and giving back to the local community. In 2015 the Uganda Olympic Committee signed a partnership with the school, to incorporate Olympic studies and training as part of the school's physical education curriculum. The school's sports facilities also provide training grounds for a variety of national sports teams and hosting grounds for competitions.\n\nIn the fall of 2012 GEMS Education opened its first school in the United States, Little GEMS International-Chicago, a pre-school in Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood. It is an upscale preschool, and operates extended hours. It accepts ages six weeks to five years, and in addition to personal, social, emotional, creative, and intellectual development, children are exposed to world languages and digital literacy at an early age.\n\nAlso in Chicago, the company opened GEMS World Academy-Chicago in September 2014. It is an International Baccalaureate school, and is located in Chicago's Lakeshore East development. The preschool to eighth grade building opened in 2014, and garnered much attention for its eye-catching architecture accented with color. An upper school for grades nine through 12 is scheduled to open in the fall of 2017. The school offers a global education and provides links with students around the world. Students receive laptops and specially equipped iPads, which are used particularly in weekly field studies around Chicago.\n\nIn 2014 GEMS World Academy-Chicago instituted the citywide $50,000 GEMS Education Chicago Teacher Award. The inaugural winner, in June 2014, was Matthew Cunningham, a teacher at Frederic Chopin Elementary School in Ukrainian Village in Chicago's West Side.\n\nIn 2013 GEMS Education sought to find a location to build a school on the Upper East Side of New York City; however proceedings were eventually abandoned amidst litigation relating to property contracts.\n\nIn the early 2010s GEMS' consultancy arm, GEMS Education Solutions, partnered in managing some U.S. schools. In 2009 Manny Rivera, at the time CEO of GEMS Education Solutions and GEMS Americas, formed Global Partnership Schools with former New York City Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew. Global Partnership Schools, in partnership with GEMS Education Solutions, and financed by newly available three-year federal School Improvement Grants (SIG), managed some previously failing schools in the U.S. beginning in 2010. Results, as with many SIG recipients from 2010–2012, were mixed; in August 2012 the company declined to renew its contract with one school district. The combined partnership company also sponsored two new charter schools in Ohio called Believe to Achieve Academies beginning in the fall of 2012; they closed in the spring of 2014 due to inability to meet enrollment goals.\n\nGEMS' first school in continental Europe is the GEMS World Academy-Etoy, located in Etoy, Switzerland in the Lake Geneva area between Geneva and Lausanne. The school opened in the fall of 2013 for students from pre-school through grade 8, with plans to expand to grade 12 and up to 1,000 students. The school, which is an English-speaking school with an added strong emphasis on French, caters to the international populace of the area, as well as to local Swiss families seeking an international education for their children. The upscale school also offers merit-based scholarships of 25% to 100% tuition reimbursement for local students.\n\nGEMS World Academy-Etoy is an International Baccalaureate school, and includes specialised facilities such as a World Language Learning Centre, a large international and high-tech library, radio and TV studios, a music centre, and a dyslexia support center. Many of the facilities are also open to the public. Its new-construction sports facilities, which opened in May 2015, include a 25-meter swimming pool, a large multi-sport court for basketball, netball, handball, badminton, football, etc., a climbing wall, a fitness room, and a dance studio, and these are available for use by local groups and businesses outside of school hours. The school aims to distinguish itself as providing a holistic, innovative education focused on forming global citizens with an international vision and enhanced problem-solving skills.\n\nIn November 2013 GEMS Education acquired its first school in France, , a prestigious 60-acre international boarding school founded in 1899 in Normandy. The top-tier school, for students age 6 to 19, caters to a clientele from over 100 countries. GEMS invested €5million for a five-year large-scale expansion, redevelopment, and modernization of the school, making additions including new class buildings and dormitories, a school restaurant, a large entertainment auditorium featuring a theatre with a symphony orchestra pit, a music studio, and a large sports complex. The sports complex includes an Olympic swimming pool, ice rinks, 14 tennis courts, numerous sports fields for football, rugby, and squash, martial arts studios, and karting tracks; and a rebuild of the school's runway to re-open its flight training. GEMS made the primary school all-digital, added new language courses, and added France's first International Baccalaureate curriculum; Ecole des Roches now offers a combination of the British and French curriculums.\n\nGEMS announced an intention to double or triple Ecole des Roches's 400-student boarding and day enrolment over five years. 2014 was the first year of GEMS operation of the school, and as of 2015, it also offers French immersion courses for international students during the summer, French-immersion exchange programmes throughout the year, and summer English courses.\n\nIn September 2014 the company opened GEMS World Academy Singapore, its first school in Southeast Asia. It has an international curriculum, and is an International Baccalaureate school, offering the Cambridge International curriculum CIE/IGCSE as well. The school's $220-million campus is projected to be fully completed by 2017, when it will be able to take in up to 3,000 students aged three to 18.\n\nThe school focuses on all-round development, including language development and commitment to community and service. All pupils up to age 11 are provided with a violin or cello, there are sound-proof studios for one-on-one music lessons, and there are also multiple orchestra groups and bands. Sports facilities include an Olympic-sized swimming pool, all-weather playing field, multi-purpose gym, and climbing wall. The school has audio and film recording studios, and a 750-seat auditorium and a planetarium are scheduled to be completed by 2017. Language studies in this multilingual location include ESL support for non-native English speakers, 30 minutes daily of Chinese for students under age 6, and after that continued study of either Chinese, Spanish, or French. The school fosters leadership skills and innovative thinking; an adapted Reggio Emilia approach is used for younger students, and secondary-school students assist teachers with arts, drama, music, and special presentations and celebrations.\n\nIn September 2015, GEMS opened GEMS International School Pearl City, in Penang, Malaysia. The school is for ages three to 18, and follows the British National Curriculum leading to the IGCSE/CIE and AS/A-level qualifications. It also accommodates the Malaysian Education Ministry guidelines and teaches Malaysian language, Mandarin, Malaysian social studies, and Islamic and moral studies. It is the first international school in Mainland Penang. Facilities include a theatre, music and art rooms, a dance studio, sport halls, a football field, swimming pools, and basketball courts. The school plans to grow to 1,500 students within five years, eventually accommodating 3,000 students.\n"}
{"id": "28321462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28321462", "title": "Gravity Discovery Centre", "text": "Gravity Discovery Centre\n\nThe Gravity Discovery Centre and Observatory is a \"hands-on\" Science education, astronomy, Aboriginal culture and tourist centre, situated on the site of the Gravity precinct, near Gingin, north of Perth, Western Australia.\n\nThe centre is operated by The Gravity Discovery Centre Foundation Board Inc and provides information and displays regarding physics, astronomy and Australian Aboriginal Culture specialising in gravity and cosmology. The site of the public centre is located in pristine Western Australian bushland. \n\nThe Department of Biodiversity Conservation and Attractions manages the bushland surrounding the Discovery Centre and the observatory, and strives to keep the area untouched (from weeds, litter, etc.). The surrounding area is abundant in seasonal wildflowers.\n\nIn 2005 the Gravity Discovery Centre was awarded the Eureka Prize for \"promoting [the] understanding of science.\" The GDC is a significant Western Australian asset. \n\n\n\n\nThe Leaning Tower of Gingin is a purpose built tall steel inclined tower, designed so that visitors can recreate the experiments of Galileo Galilei. There are 222 steps to the top from where balloons filled with water can be dropped through chutes. The tower leans at an angle of 15 degrees and held in place by 180 tons of concrete. The drop tower is also used by the YouTube channel \"How Ridiculous\" for various drop tests.\n\n"}
{"id": "42794498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42794498", "title": "Hoax Slayer", "text": "Hoax Slayer\n\nHoax-Slayer.com is a website established in 2003 by Brett Christensen, dedicated to critically analyzing the veracity of urban legends. While it is best known for debunking false stories, it also hosts a page listing strange but true urban legends. It originated as a Yahoo! group before the website was established. Stories it has debunked include fake videos claiming to depict Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, myths that the 2013 supermoon appeared bigger than it really did, and a \"Simon Ashton\" hoax claiming that emails from Simon Ashton should not be opened because doing so will lead to your computer being hacked. In 2014, the site was reworked, changing the style and color scheme for main pages and new reports, while old reports retained the previous style.\n\nBrett M. Christensen, a resident of Bundaberg, Australia, worked as a caravan park cleaner before he founded Hoax-Slayer.com in August 2003. He was inspired to do so after being convinced that the \"Budweiser Frogs virus\" really existed, only to discover later that it did not. He writes most of the site's articles, but two of his three sons, according to him, \"help maintain the website and do invaluable work behind the scenes.\" In addition to debunking hoaxes, Christensen has noted that many of them are \"loosely derived\" from real events. \"For example, in Australia in 1999 a woman claimed to have been assaulted by criminals who used a chemical disguised as perfume to disable her. Warnings about that incident, which may not have been true to begin with, soon spread to the internet and have circulated ever since,\" he told the Guardian.\n"}
{"id": "33330360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33330360", "title": "Intelitek", "text": "Intelitek\n\nIntelitek is a privately held technology education company focused on STEM education, Robotics, Programming and technology training for machining, manufacturing, industrial maintenance and more. Based in Derry, New Hampshire, the company was established in 1982 and in July 2001 adopted the name Intelitek, Inc. The company has customers in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Australia, in the fields of secondary education, colleges and universities, and industrial training centers. Intelitek offers educational solutions for: STEM Education, Engineering, Robotics, Advanced Manufacturing, Automation, Industrial Maintenance, Oil and Gas, Process Control, Agriculture.\n\nOne of Intelitek's latest releases is an online learning environment, to learn how to program virtual and real robots within the STEM pathways. \n\nIn 2002, Intelitek provided a $350,000 grant to Gilbert High School, installing a state-of-the-art robotics lab in the school's former wood shop. This was the first such high school robotics lab in the state of Arizona.\n\nIn 2007, the Deputy Prime Minister of Russia, Sergei Ivanov, visited the Ufa State Aviation Technical University to tour an educational \"Technopark\" stocked with sophisticated equipment. One of the key features of the facility was a mini-CNC lathe purchased from Intelitek. The Technopark was Russia's only facility to have this level of equipment.\n\nIntelitek was a supporting sponsor of the 2011 VEX Robotics Competition World Championship. And the company's executives also serve as mentors to students in a high school's \"Project Lead The Way\" program in the headquarters' area.\n"}
{"id": "37368195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37368195", "title": "Islamic Azad University, Tabriz Science and Research Branch", "text": "Islamic Azad University, Tabriz Science and Research Branch\n\nThe Islamic Azad University, Science and Research Branch, Tabriz (Persian: دانشگاه آزاد اسلامی واحد علوم و تحقیقات تبریز) (also informally referred to as O.T.T)is one of the many campuses affiliated with the Islamic Azad University, and is located in Tabriz.\nThe University has a student body of approximately 3000 including graduate students.\nThe university was founded in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "52281401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52281401", "title": "Joseph G. McKenna", "text": "Joseph G. McKenna\n\nJoseph Gonzaga McKenna, CFC (1922 – 28 July 1973) was an American educator and member of the Congregation of Christian Brothers, a Roman Catholic religious institute. He served as the fifth President of Iona College in New Rochelle, New York.\n\nMcKenna was born in 1922 in New York City, where he was raised with a sister, Mary. He joined the Congregation of Christian Brothers in 1936 at the age of 14.\n\nIn 1951 he graduated from Fordham University with a master's degree, and received a PhD in 1955 from Columbia University. He additionally earned a bachelor's degree and a second master's.\n\nAfter graduating college, Brother McKenna began teaching at All Hallows Institute in 1942, and later taught at Rice High School, Iona Preparatory School, and Power Memorial Academy over the next eight years. In 1950, he became a mathematics professor at Iona College, and two years later was appointed dean of the college.\n\nHe served in that capacity until 1957, when he left New York to found Catholic Memorial High School in West Roxbury, Boston, Massachusetts, the first Christian Brothers school in New England. He served as principal there until 1963.\n\nMcKenna returned to Iona College in 1963, and served there as vice president until 1965, when he became the college's 5th president. Under his leadership, the college notably changed from an all-male institution to a coeducational college. The decision, made by the college's board of trustees, was announced by McKenna in November 1968. The change in policy, which would take effect with the first female students entering Iona as freshmen in September 1969, was explained by McKenna in a press release:The change is not as drastic as one may assume. The entrance of women into the other divisions of Iona that took place during the past four years was preparing the college, whether we realized it or not, for the recent decision of the board.\"The decision for Iona to adopt coeducation was part of a national trend, with 62 single-sex colleges going coed in 1968 alone. Within the Iona and regional communities, the change was met with mixed but mostly positive reactions. The mayor of New Rochelle, where the college is located, expressed his approval, as did several Iona professors, and students. McKenna's predecessor as President of Iona College, Br. Richard B. Power, said, \"While I do not like to see Iona become a coeducational institution, I can understand the decision of the board of trustees and I look forward with interest to this latest development in the history of the college.\" Additionally, the representative of the junior class express student acceptance of the decision, while noting the possible lack of sufficient space to house female boarders.\n\nIn 1971, McKenna resigned as president due to ill health, but continued to teach graduate students in the school of business. In addition to his work at Iona College, he also served as assistant to the superior of the Eastern American Province of the Congregation of Christian Brothers.\n\nMcKenna died on Saturday, 28 July 1973 of a heart attack while on vacation in San Francisco, California, at the age of 51.\n\nMcKenna's legacy is continued through the Brother Joseph G. McKenna Memorial Award for Academic Excellence, presented annually by the faculty of Iona College's Hagan School of Business.\n"}
{"id": "14441269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14441269", "title": "Joshua Angrist", "text": "Joshua Angrist\n\nJoshua David Angrist (born September 18, 1960) is an Israeli American economist. He is Ford Professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Angrist has taught at the university level since 1989. He is known for his use of quasi-experimental research designs (such as instrumental variables) to study the effects of public policies and changes in economic or social circumstances. Angrist has also made contributions in theoretical econometrics. He co-founded and serves as a director of the School Effectiveness & Inequality Initiative based within the MIT Department of Economics. The center's work focuses on the economics of education, issues surrounding domestic poverty, and the connections between human capital and the American income distribution.\n\nBorn in Columbus, Ohio and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Angrist attended Oberlin College, where he received his B.A. in economics in 1982. He lived in Israel from 1982 until 1985. Angrist received his Ph.D. in Economics from Princeton University in 1989. His doctoral dissertation, \"Econometric Analysis of the Vietnam Era Draft Lottery,\" was supervised by Orley Ashenfelter and later published in parts in the \"American Economic Review\". Angrist was an assistant professor at Harvard University from 1989 until 1991, when he returned to Israel as a senior lecturer at Hebrew University. Angrist holds dual US-Israeli citizenship.\n\nSince 1996 Angrist has been a faculty member in the Department of Economics at MIT, where he teaches econometrics and labor economics. He lives in Brookline, Massachusetts.\n\nIn addition to teaching at MIT, Angrist is a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a Research Fellow at the Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA). He is also a fellow of the Econometric Society. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2006. In 2007 Angrist received an honorary doctorate in Economics from the University of St. Gallen. He is the recipient of the 2011 John von Neumann Award given annually by the Rajk László College for Advanced Studies in Budapest.\n\nIn 2009 Angrist published \"Mostly Harmless Econometrics\", co-authored with Jörn-Steffen Pischke. This book explores econometric tools used by empirical researchers. In 2014, Angrist and Pischke released \"Mastering 'Metrics: The Path from Cause to Effect\", targeted at undergraduate econometrics students. Angrist has authored and coauthored dozens of scientific papers and reports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14194260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14194260", "title": "KDSC", "text": "KDSC\n\nKDSC (91.1 FM) is a radio station licensed to serve Thousand Oaks, California. The station is owned by the University of Southern California, and is a repeater of KUSC and their classical music format. KDSC competes for the K216FM signal on 91.1 on Los Angeles' west-side which rebroadcasts KKLQ (FM), the Los Angeles affiliate for Contemporary Christian K-LOVE.\n\nKDSC broadcasts in HD.\n"}
{"id": "2315046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315046", "title": "Linda Gottfredson", "text": "Linda Gottfredson\n\nLinda Susanne Gottfredson (née Howarth; born June 24, 1947) is an American psychologist and writer. She is professor emeritus of educational psychology at the University of Delaware and co-director of the Delaware-Johns Hopkins Project for the Study of Intelligence and Society. Gottfredson's work has been influential in shaping U.S. public and private policies regarding affirmative action, hiring quotas, and \"race-norming\" on aptitude tests.\n\nShe is on the boards of the International Society for the Study of Individual Differences (ISSID), the International Society for Intelligence Research (ISIR), and the editorial boards of the scientific journals \"Intelligence\", \"Learning and Individual Differences\", and \"Society\". Gottfredson has received research grants worth $267,000 from the Pioneer Fund, an organization which has been described as \"racist\" and \"white supremacist\".\n\nGottfredson was born in San Francisco on June 24th, 1947. She is a third generation university faculty member. Her father, Jack A. Howarth (died 2006), was a faculty at U.C. Davis School of Veterinary Medicine, as was his father. Gottfredson initially majored in biology, but later transferred to psychology with her first husband, Gary Don Gottfredson. They received bachelor's degrees in psychology in 1969 from University of California, Berkeley, then worked in the Peace Corps in Malaysia until 1972. She also taught in schools for the disadvantaged for a time when she was young. They both went to graduate school at Johns Hopkins University, where she received a Ph.D. in sociology in 1977.\n\nGottfredson took a position at Hopkins' Center for Social Organization of Schools and investigated issues of occupational segregation and typology based on skill sets and intellectual capacity. She married Robert A. Gordon, who worked in a related area at Hopkins, and they divorced by the mid-90s.\n\nIn 1985, Gottfredson participated in a conference called \"The g Factor in Employment Testing\". The papers presented were published in the December 1986 issue of the \"Journal of Vocational Behavior\", which she edited. In 1986, Gottfredson was appointed Associate Professor of Educational Studies at the University of Delaware, Newark. \n\nIn 1989, \"The Washington Post\" reported that one of Gottfredson's presentations was cited favorably by an article in the National Association for the Advancement of White People's magazine.\n\nThat year, she presented a series of papers on general intelligence factor and employment. Gottfredson has said:\n\nWe now have out there what I call the egalitarian fiction that all groups are equal in intelligence. We have social policy based on that fiction. For example, the 1991 Civil Rights Act codified \"Griggs vs. Duke Power\", which said that if you have disproportionate hiring by race, you are prima facie -- that's prima facie evidence of racial discrimination. ...Differences in intelligence have real world effects, whether we think they're there or not, whether we want to wish them away or not. And we don't do anybody any good, certainly not the low-IQ people, by denying that those problems exist.\n\nShe was promoted to full professor at the University of Delaware in 1990. \n\nIn 1992, after two and a half years of debate and protest, the University of Delaware's administration reached a settlement that once again allowed Gottfredson and Jan Blits to continue receiving research funding from the Pioneer Fund.\n\nGottfredson's research and views have stirred considerable controversy, especially her testimony on public affirmative action policy and her defense of \"The Bell Curve,\" in particular a statement she wrote, \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence\", which was signed by 51 colleagues and published in \"The Wall Street Journal.\" Since then, she has written a number of articles on race and intelligence, especially as it applies to occupational qualification.\n\nGottfredson has been very critical of psychologist Robert Sternberg, arguing against his position that there is a \"practical intelligence\" that is separate from the \"analytical intelligence\" measured by IQ tests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41435822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41435822", "title": "List of largest universities", "text": "List of largest universities\n\nThe following is a list of largest universities in the world by country listing only the largest university in each country.\n\nThe Indira Gandhi National Open University, India tops the list with an enrolled strength of over 4 million students.\n\n"}
{"id": "2759832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2759832", "title": "List of sex museums", "text": "List of sex museums\n\nA sex museum is a museum that displays erotic art, historical sexual aids, and documents on the history of erotica. They were popular in Europe at the end of the 1960s and during the 1970s, the era of the sexual revolution.\nSince the 1990s, these museums are often called erotic museums or erotic art museums instead of sex museums.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11628054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11628054", "title": "Maria Franck", "text": "Maria Franck\n\nMaria Kristina Franck (2 February 1771 – 17 April 1847) was a Swedish actress and drama teacher. She was a member of the pioneer generation of the Royal Dramatic Theatre, and belonged to the first stars of the theater. She has been referred to as her country's first native dramatic tragedienne. She was the principal of the theatre school \"Dramatens elevskola\" in 1819-23. During her last years on stage, she was known under her name as married, Ruckman.\n\nMaria Franck was the daughter of a bricklayer journeyman, Johan Franck, and Brita Lundström.\n\nIn 1784, she was enrolled as a student of the Royal Swedish Opera. Her mentors where Marie Louise Marcadet and Monvel, members of the French theatre. Monvel where reportedly impressed by her talent and she was trained as an actress exclusively for speaking drama and not as a singer of opera.\n\nIn 1788, Maria Franck was contracted as a \"First actress\" of the Royal Dramatic Theatre, which was founded that year. She was as such also a member of the actors board of directors, which managed the theater until 1803.\n\nMaria Franck achieved great success foremost as a tragedienne, and as such, she has been referred to as the most important link between her mentor, the tragedinne Marie Louise Marcadet, and the famous tragedienne of the 19th-century Swedish theater, Sara Torsslow. She did occasionally play comedy as well, and one of her most acclaimed roles was as Mrs Dorsan in Den svartsjuka hustrun ('Jealous Wife') by Desforges. She also performed an occasional minor singing part at the opera, as the staff of the Royal theaters (the Royal Swedish Opera and the Royal Dramatic Theatre) was formally available for both stages. She is known to have made occasional tours in the country. During the regency government years of Gustav IV Adolf (1792–96), she had rose to become one of the most valuable members of the Royal Dramatic Theatre, which is illustrated by the fact that her income from the theater belonged to the elite of the actresses there. \nFranck enjoyed great respect as an artist, and the theater director G F Åkerhjelm respectfully noted her \"enlightened and experienced judgement\" as well as her \"excellent ability and her well deserved fame\". She reportedly acted with a deep feeling and intensity, and a control over her mimic, which was never melodramatic.\n\nHer career lasted longer than most actors of her generation: most of her generation of actors retired after the 1809-10 season, while she remained until 1818. During her last years on the stage, she was criticized for being to melodramatic in her way of acting; she acted in accordance with the French school, which had by then became unfashionable. In 1818, she retired with a full pension.\n\nMaria Franck had, in parallel with her acting career, given lessons in declamation, and in 1819, the year following her retirement from the stage, she was engaged as the principal of the acting school \"Dramatens elevskola\", a position she kept until 1823. She is known as the mentor of Sara Torsslow and Charlotta Eriksson.\n\nIn 1808, at the age of thirty-nine, Maria Franck married the eleven years younger engraver Johan Gustav Ruckman (1783–1862). Some encyclopedias therefore list her as Kristina Ruckman, as this was her name during the last ten years of her career. She became the mother of the painter Maria Ruckman (1810–1896). In contrast to most actors of her generation, which often had financial problems, Maria Franck was reportedly well off during her retirement, although this may have been in part because of her husband, who was a successful engraver.\n\nAmong her parts were \"One of the pleasures\" in \"Armide\" by Gluck (season 1786–87), Maria in \"Gustaf Adolf och Ebba Brahe\" (Gustaf Adolf and Ebba Brahe) by Gustav III (1787–88), Flattery in \"Alcides inträde i världen\" (The arrival of Alcide in to the world) by Haeffner (1793–94), Theodora in \"De gamla friarna\" (The old suitors) by Dalayrac (1795–96), Antiope in \"Renaud\" by Haeffner (1800–01), Sabina in \"Den förmente prinsen\" (The supposed Prince) (1807–08), Madame de Veronne in \"Ambroise\" (1812–13), Gertrud in \"Den Schweiziska familjen\" (The Swiss family) (1815–16) and the abbess in \"Nunnorna\" (The nuns).\n\nHer most noted performances was Thilda in \"Oden\", Celestina and the Abess in \"Korsfararne\" (Crusaders) by Kotzebue, and the leading parts in \"Virginia\" by Paykull, \"Johanna af Montfaucon\" by Kotzebue and Mrs Dorsan in \"Den svartsjuka hustrun\" (The jealous wife); the latest one (1808) was considered to be her greatest triumph.\n\n"}
{"id": "185756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185756", "title": "NferNelson", "text": "NferNelson\n\nnferNelson is the former name of GL Assessment, a leading independent provider of tests and other assessment services for education in the United Kingdom. Their products, which include assessments for the 0-19 age group, have a national reputation.\n\nnferNelson were founded by the National Foundation for Educational Research (NFER), and became part of the Granada Learning Group in 2000.\n\nIn December 2007 NFER-Nelson's name was formally changed to GL Assessment\n\n"}
{"id": "31180865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31180865", "title": "Pari Center for New Learning", "text": "Pari Center for New Learning\n\nThe Pari Center for New Learning is a non-profit educational center located in the village of Pari in Civitella Paganico of the Province of Grosseto, Italy. The center was directed by F. David Peat, who co-authored the book \"Science, Order, and Creativity\" with theoretical physicist David Bohm. The center has hosted, with the support of its renowned \"fellows\" from academia and the arts, the academy \"Accademia dei Pari\". It hosts international conferences on the role of trust and ethics in the world of economics and business, and conferences on the relationship between religion and science.\n\nIt was created by F. David Peat and Maureen Doolan in 2000, with the support and assistance of external advisors, of the people of Pari, of Pari's village association Sette Colli and of the \"comune di Civitella-Paganico\".\n\nThe center is dedicated to education, learning and research and fosters an interdisciplinary approach linking science, the arts, ethics and spirituality. Above all, the Pari Center for New Learning is dedicated to the principle of \"the spirit of place\". Its location in a medieval village provides a setting for visitors of the center to pause and think about the future and the values, meaning and direction of contemporary society. The founders intend the wooded countryside and traditional farming methods in the surroundings of the center to draw attention to the importance of ecological considerations in comparison to progress and consumerism.\n\nThe Pari Center takes a \"gentle\" approach to learning, emphasizing human interaction in simple, pleasant surroundings without the intrusion of unnecessary technology. The underlying philosophy and approach is that of \"Gentle Action\" laid out in the book by David Peat of the same title.\n\nThe center's activities include residential courses and conferences that reflect the Center's philosophy, opportunities for scholars and researchers to spend extended periods in Pari as well as mentoring given by David Peat and other members of the Center's faculty.\n\nThe center hosts several courses or seminars every year. \n\nIt has hosted the \"Accademia dei Pari\", the name of which has a double meaning in Italian language, signifying both the \"academy of the people of Pari\" and \"the academy of equals\". The fellows of the academy include theoretical physicist Basil Hiley who collaborated over decades with David Bohm, art historian Deborah Klimburg-Salter who has studied the impact of the Sanghata Sutra, theoretical physicist Ignazio Licata, astronomer and space scientist Roger Malina, physicist Roy McWeeny and Paavo Pylkkänen who has published articles on consciousness with Basil Hiley.\n\nIt has run international conferences on the role of trust and ethics in the world of economics and business as well as conferences on the relationship between religion and science; one of these is documented in the book \"The Pari Dialogues: Essays in Science, Religion, Society and the Arts\" of 2008 by F. David Peat.\n\nIn June 2008, the Pari Center for New Learning hosted a conference on \"The Legacy of David Bohm\", which included many collaborators and early students of Bohm as participants.\n\nAlong with organisations in Berlin, London, Stockholm, Tromso and Lisbon, the Pari Center for New Learning is partner in the project \"UniGrowCity\", for which it hosted a members' meeting in November 2011. The project, intended to address experienced-based learning for a more sustainable city of the future, was initiated by six organisations in six European countries and is part of the Grundtvig programme on adult education.\n\nThe center is associated with \"Pari Publishing\", a small publishing house specialized in science, religion, society, psychology, linguistics and the arts, managed by Eleanor Peat.\n\nThree times in 2003, 2004 and 2006, the Pari Dialogues hosted by the Pari Center for New Learning were awarded the \"Local Societies Initiative Supplemental Grant Award\" by the Metanexus Institute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185832", "title": "Perseus Project", "text": "Perseus Project\n\nThe Perseus Project (version 4 also known as \"Perseus Hopper\") is a digital library project of Tufts University, which is located in Medford and Somerville, near Boston, in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. The project assembles digital collections of humanities resources. It is hosted by the department of Classics. The project is mirrored by the Max Planck Society in Berlin, Germany, as well as by the University of Chicago.\n\nThe project was founded in 1987 to collect and present materials for the study of ancient Greece. It has published two CD-ROMs and established the Perseus Digital Library on the World Wide Web in 1995. The project has expanded its original scope; current collections cover Greco-Roman classics and the English Renaissance. Other materials, such as the papers of Edwin Bolles and the history of Tufts University, have been moved into the Tufts Digital Library.\n\nThe editor-in-chief of the project is Gregory Crane, the Tufts Winnick Family Chair in Technology and Entrepreneurship. He has held that position since the founding of the Perseus Project.\n\nAncient Greek works in Perseus are stored as beta code, although they may be reformatted for display into a variety of transcription systems.\n\nThe Perseus Project supports open-source content, and it has published code on SourceForge. Perseus is a contributor to the Open Content Alliance. The project also supports the Internet Archive.\n\nAll texts and materials believed to be in the public domain are available for free download in XML format from Perseus 4.0. For a specific example, see the download and license information for Murray's translation of Homer's \"Odyssey\". Some content is restricted by intellectual property license agreements with the holders of the rights to that material.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1442208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442208", "title": "Postgraduate Diploma in Education", "text": "Postgraduate Diploma in Education\n\nThe Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE), also known as a Graduate Diploma of Education (GradDipEd), is a one-year postgraduate course in several countries including Australia, Ghana, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, Scotland, Hong Kong, Singapore and Zimbabwe for existing bachelor's degree holders leading to become a qualified teacher.\n\nThe qualification is normally taught at a university or other higher education institution, though much of the course time is spent on placements in local schools. For example, in the Hong Kong programmes, most schools will have lesson time for about 20 weeks, and another 14 weeks (usually taken in 6 weeks for the first semester and 8 weeks for the second semester) for placements.\n\nIn Ireland, the former \"Higher Diploma in Education\" (H.Dip.Ed.) was renamed as the PGDE from 2007 onwards.\n\nThe Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) is the equivalent of the PGDE in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and historically in Scotland. Some universities, for instance Durham University award PGDE on successful completion of 120 University Credit Units (UCU) of a Master of Arts Education course (i.e., completing two years). The PGCE is awarded after 60UCUs.\n\n"}
{"id": "3406986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406986", "title": "Preschool teacher", "text": "Preschool teacher\n\nA preschool teacher is a type of early childhood educator who instructs children from 2 to age 4, which stands as the youngest stretch of early childhood education. Early Childhood Education teachers need to span the continuum of children from birth to age 8.\n\nPreschool teachers are encouraged to hold credentials in Early Childhood Education in the form of a Child Development Accreditation (CDA) or formal college education in Early Childhood or a related subject.\n\nThe term \"preschool\" refers to instruction in non-public arenas such as licensed preschools, childcare centers, family day care centers, home day care centers, center-based programs, federal programs like Head Start, and full or part-day private child centers or day care centers sponsored by religious bodies. The term \"pre-kindergarten\" refers to those lead teachers who offer instruction in a program for four-year-olds funded as part of the state public school system.\n\nPreschool teachers must be able to work well and interact with young children, sometimes as young as 2 years 9 months. Preschool children have a short attention span and their worries are usually fairly simple. Most preschoolers are loving, affectionate, and playful, and like to play games, be read to, or play with toys.\n\n"}
{"id": "15959710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15959710", "title": "Schmitt Music", "text": "Schmitt Music\n\nSchmitt Music is an American retail company which specializes in acoustic pianos, digital pianos, band and orchestra instruments, guitars and other musical instruments, sheet music and accessories, as well as offering services such as instrument repair and music instruction. The company operates fourteen stores in seven states. Founded in 1896, it was awarded the Steinway & Sons Partners in Performance Award in 2003, and the Steinway & Sons \"Dealer of the Year\" in 2011. Schmitt Music was named Kawai Dealer of the Year in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "418548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418548", "title": "Screen magnifier", "text": "Screen magnifier\n\nA screen magnifier is software that interfaces with a computer's graphical output to present enlarged screen content. By enlarging part (or all) of a screen, people with visual impairments can better see words and images. This type of assistive technology is useful for people with some functional vision; people with visual impairments and little or no functional vision usually use a screen reader. \n\nThe simplest form of magnification presents an enlarged portion of the original screen content, the focus, so that it covers some or all of the full screen. This enlarged portion should include the content of interest to the user and the pointer or cursor, also suitably enlarged. As the user moves the pointer or cursor the screen magnifier should track with it and show the new enlarged portion. If this tracking is jerky or flickers it is likely to disturb the user. Also, the pointer or cursor may not be the content of interest: for example, if the user presses a keyboard shortcuts that opens a menu, the magnified portion should jump to that menu. Pop-up windows and changes in system status can also trigger this rapid shifting.\n\nScreen magnifiers can be especially helpful for people suffering from low vision, including elderly users. However, in a 2001 paper, Vicki Hanson noted that people with low vision often also suffer from additional disabilities such as tremors.\n\nRanges of 1- to 16-times magnification are common. The greater the magnification the smaller the proportion of the original screen content that can be viewed, so users will tend to use the lowest magnification they can manage.\n\nScreen magnifiers commonly provide several other features for people with particular sight difficulties:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45033110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45033110", "title": "Senior secondary education", "text": "Senior secondary education\n\nThe senior secondary years are the years of later adolescence corresponding to the later part of secondary education. Although definitions vary, the senior secondary years are sometimes defined as being from approximately age 15 to age 18. The term generally includes eleventh grade and twelfth grade, and may sometimes also include tenth grade.\n\nThe senior secondary years often involve a difficult transition from the world of the child to that of the adult. In many countries, school attendance is no longer compulsory in the senior secondary years. \n\nThe term \"senior secondary\" may also be used to refer to any institution that covers the upper part of secondary education, such as a high school.\n\nIn Australian education, the senior secondary years are the last two years of secondary education, years 11 and 12. The Senior Secondary Certificate of Education (SSCE) is the graduation certificate awarded to most students in Australian high schools. The name and the curriculum of the certificate varies between each state and territory. Some institutions have also traditionally included year 10. Under the Australian Curriculum implemented in the early 2010s, the senior secondary years have a separate curriculum from the curriculum that runs from through year 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "5197799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5197799", "title": "Social intelligence", "text": "Social intelligence\n\nSocial intelligence is the capacity to know oneself and to know others. Social scientist Ross Honeywill believes social intelligence is an aggregated measure of self- and social-awareness, evolved social beliefs and attitudes, and a capacity and appetite to manage complex social change. Psychologist, Nicholas Humphrey believes that it is social intelligence, rather than quantitative intelligence, that defines who we are as humans. \n\nThe original definition by Edward Thorndike in 1920 is \"the ability to understand and manage men and women and boys and girls, to act wisely in human relations\". It is equivalent to interpersonal intelligence, one of the types of intelligence identified in Howard Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences, and closely related to theory of mind. Some authors have restricted the definition to deal only with knowledge of social situations, perhaps more properly called social cognition or social marketing intelligence, as it pertains to trending socio-psychological advertising and marketing strategies and tactics. According to Sean Foleno, social intelligence is a person’s competence to optimally understand one's environment and react appropriately for socially successful conduct. It is important to note the multiple definitions listed above, as there is yet to be a complete consensus on the operational definition of social intelligence. \n\nThe social intelligence hypothesis states that social intelligence, that is, complex socialization such as politics, romance, family relationships, quarrels, collaboration, reciprocity, and altruism, (1) was the driving force in developing the size of human brains and (2) today provides our ability to use those large brains in complex social circumstances. This hypothesis claims that the demands of living together is what drives our need for intelligence. social intelligence is also a evolutionary advancement to deal with highly complex social situations, and maintain power or gain it, control people. \nArchaeologist Steve Mithen believes that there are two key periods of human brain growth that contextualize the social intelligence hypothesis. The first was about two million years ago, when the brain more than doubled in size. Mithen believes that this growth was because people were living in larger, more complex groups, and had to keep track of more people and relationships. These changes required a greater mental capacity and, in turn, a larger brain size.\n\nThe second key growth period in human brain size occurred between 600,000 and 200,000 years ago, when the brain reached its modern size. This growth is still not fully explained. Mithen’s believes that it is related to the evolution of language. Language may be the most complex cognitive task we undertake. It is directly related to social intelligence because we mainly use language to mediate our social relationships.\n\nSocial intelligence was a critical factor in brain growth. Social and cognitive complexity co-evolve.\n\nThe social intelligence quotient (SQ) is a statistical abstraction, similar to the ‘standard score’ approach used in IQ tests, with a mean of 100. Scores of 140 or above are considered to be very high. Unlike the standard IQ test, it is not a fixed model. It leans more to Jean Piaget’s theory that intelligence is not a fixed attribute, but a complex hierarchy of information-processing skills underlying an adaptive equilibrium between the individual and the environment. Therefore, an individual can change their SQ by altering their attitudes and behaviour in response to their complex social environment.\n\nSQ has until recently been measured by techniques such as question and answer sessions. These sessions assess the person's pragmatic abilities to test eligibility in certain special education courses; however, some tests have been developed to measure social intelligence. This test can be used when diagnosing autism spectrum disorders, including autism and Asperger syndrome. This test can also be used to check for some non-autistic or semi-autistic conditions such as semantic pragmatic disorder or SPD, schizophrenia, dyssemia and ADHD.\n\nSome social intelligence measures exist which are self-report. Although easy to administer, there is some question as to whether self-report social intelligence measures would better be interpreted in terms of social self-efficacy (that is, one's confidence in one's ability to deal with social information).\n\nPeople with low SQ are more suited to work with low customer contact, as well as in smaller groups or teams, or independently, because they may not have the required interpersonal communication and social skills for success on with customers and other co-workers. People with SQs over 120 are considered socially skilled, and may work exceptionally well with jobs that involve direct contact and communication with other people.\n\nGeorge Washington University Social Intelligence Test : Is one of the only ability measure available for assessing social intelligence and was created in June 1928 by Dr.Thelma Hunt a psychologist from George Washington University. It was originally proposed as a measurement of a person's capacity to deal with people and social relationships. The test is designed to assess various social abilities which consisted of observing human behavior, social situation judgement, name & face memory and theory of mind from facial expressions. The George Washington University Social Intelligence Test revised second edition consists of items as quoted:\n\nNicholas Humphrey points to a difference between intelligence being measured by IQ tests and social intelligence. Some autistic children are extremely intelligent because they have well developed skills of observing and memorizing information, however they have low social intelligence. Similarly, chimpanzees are very adept at observation and memorization, but according to Humphrey, inept at handling interpersonal relationships. What they lack is a theory of others' minds. For a long time, the field was dominated by behaviorism, that is, the theory that one could understand animals including humans, just by observing their behavior and finding correlations. But recent theories indicate that one must consider the inner structure behavior.\n\nBoth Nicholas Humphrey and Ross Honeywill believe that it is social intelligence, or the richness of our qualitative life, rather than our quantitative intelligence, that makes humans what they are. For example, what it is like to be a human being living at the centre of the conscious present, surrounded by smells, tastes, feels and the sense of being an extraordinary metaphysical entity with properties which hardly seem to belong to the physical world. This is social intelligence.\n\nSocial intelligence is closely related to cognition and emotional intelligence.\nResearch psychologists studying social cognition and social neuroscience have discovered many principles in which human social intelligence operates. In early work on this topic, psychologists Nancy Cantor and John Kihlstrom outlined the kinds of concepts people use to make sense of their social relations (e.g., “What situation am I in?, What kind of person is this?, Who is talking to me?”), the rules they use to draw inferences (“What did he mean by that?”) and plan actions (“What am I going to do about it?”).\n\nSameer M Babu is a professor who wrote an article about classroom climate and social intelligence. Babu defines social intelligence as, \"the ability to deal efficiently and thoughtfully, keeping one’s own identity, employing apposite social inputs with a wider understanding of social environment; considering empathetic co-operation as a base of social acquaintance.\" \n\nMore recently, popular science writer Daniel Goleman has drawn on social neuroscience research to propose that social intelligence is made up of social awareness (including empathy, attunement, empathic accuracy, and social cognition) and social facility (including synchrony, self-presentation, influence, and concern). Goleman’s research indicates that our social relationships have a direct effect on our physical health, and the deeper the relationship the deeper the impact. Effects include blood flow, breathing, mood such as fatigue and depression, and weakening of the immune system.\n\nEducational researcher Raymond H. Hartjen asserts that expanded opportunities for social interaction enhances intelligence. This suggests that children require continuous opportunities for interpersonal experiences in order to develop a keen 'inter-personal psychology'. Traditional classrooms do not permit the interaction of complex social behavior. Instead, students in traditional settings are treated as learners who must be infused with more and more complex forms of information. The structure of schools today allows very few of these skills, critical for survival in the world, to develop. Because we so limit the development of the skills of \"natural psychologist\" in traditional schools, graduates enter the job market handicapped to the point of being incapable of surviving on their own. In contrast, students who have had an opportunity to develop their skills in multi-age classrooms and at democratic settings rise above their less socially skilled peers. They have a good sense of self, know what they want in life and have the skills to begin their quest.\n\nThe issue here is psychology versus social intelligence—as a separate and distinct perspective, seldom articulated. An appropriate introduction contains certain hypothetical assumptions about social structure and function, as it relates to intelligence defined and expressed by groups, constrained by cultural expectations that assert potential realities, but make no claims that there is an \"exterior\" social truth to be defined. This perspective pursues the view that social structures can be defined with the warning that what is mapped into the structure and how that information is stored, retrieved, and decided upon are variable, but can be contained in an abstract and formal grammar—a sort of game of definitions and rules that permit and project an evolving intelligence. Two halves of the coin: one half psychology; the other half social. Unfortunately, most references to social intelligence relate to an individual's social skills. Not mentioned, and more important, is how social intelligence (speaking of a group or assembly of groups) processes information about the world and shares it with participants in the group(s). Are there social structures or can they be designed to accumulate and reveal information to the individual or to other groups. The bigger question is how groups and societies map the environment (ecological, social and personal) into a social structure. How is that structure able to contain a worldview and to reveal that view to the participants? How are decisions made?\n\n"}
{"id": "31626507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31626507", "title": "Sokikom", "text": "Sokikom\n\nSokikom (so-kee-kom) is the only collaborative math program where elementary students help each other learn through a team-based game. Based in San Jose, CA, Sokikom was founded in 2008 by Snehal Patel.\n\nSokikom's online math games are rooted in the nationally recognized standards of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics Curriculum Focal Points for Grades PreK-8 and align to the Common Core Standards for grades k-5. Sokikom is designed as an adaptive learning experience: students progress through math content at their own pace based on performance. The learning games can be played alone in single player mode, or online in social, multiplayer games.\n\nSokikom's classroom management system allows teachers to reinforce positive behaviors in the classroom. Using a computer, tablet, or mobile device, teachers can award \"Class Cash\" to students individual virtual accounts. Students can then use these rewards in an online store to purchase items for their character/avatar.\n\nSokikom has won multiple awards for its math games and its business successes. Sokikom received a 2011 BESSIE Award from ComputED Gazette, recognizing Sokikom's multiplayer math games in the category Best for Early Elementary Students.\nSokikom was further recognized in the category Best Gaming & Adaptive Learning Company at the 2011 Education Innovation Summit at SkySong, the Arizona State University Scottsdale Innovation Center, and was honored with a 2011 Success Award from the Arizona Small Business Development Center Network (AZSBDC) for its contribution to the Arizona economy. The Association of Educational Publishers presented Sokikom with a Distinguished Achievement Award in the category of Mathematics Curriculum.\nBon Crowder of MathIsNotAFourLetterword wrote: \"I’ve seen these in action with this game. I’m a hands-on kind of mom and teacher, and I’m very much into attaching math to anything we can. If your kids lean toward video games, Sokikom‘s a great one to use!\" Dr. Stevanne Auerbach, aka \"Dr. Toy,\" named the games to her Best Vacation Children's Products list.\n\nSokikom links parts of the words “social” and “communal” with two k's, which when backed against one another, look similar to the mathematical symbol for a natural join. Sokikom means joining “social” and “community” to improve learning.\n\nThe company was initially funded by grants from the Institute of Education Sciences, which is the main research arm of the U.S. Department of Education., and is currently funded by private investors.\n"}
{"id": "30089209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30089209", "title": "Spens Report", "text": "Spens Report\n\nThe Spens Report was an important 1938 British government report on secondary schools in the UK that lead to much-wider expansion of grammar schools in the UK, and the introduction of technical schools and \"modern\" schools. From this report, all people would go to a secondary school. \n\nThe full title of the report was \"Secondary Education with special reference to Grammar Schools and Technical High Schools\". The report was produced by Sir Will Spens CBE, the Master from 1927-52 of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. \n\nAt the time of the report, around 5% of the British secondary school population would go to university, but 50% of those at public school attended university. \n\nThe Spens Committee was given its task in the autumn of 1933. It sat for 76 days and examined 150 witnesses. Sub-committees sat for another 36 days. Sub-committees were set up to look into the grammar school curriculum in MJarch 1935, and a drafting committee in February 1936. A Code Committee looked at the 1926 Hadow Report of Sir William Henry Hadow CBE, and how work from that would report would be included into the Spens Report. What was discussed in each committee, which would have a significant effect on British secondary education, and the committee's findings was dependent on the type of people, and their backgrounds, on each committee and who had appointed them. \n\nIt was published on Friday 30 December 1938 by the Consultative Committee of the Board of Education. It concluded that \"the existing arrangements for the whole-time education of boys and girls in England and Wales have ceased to correspond with the actual structure of modern society and with the economic facts of the situation\". \n\nThe report was long and covered many areas, not just the implementation of grammar schools and technical schools.\n\nThe most well known, although not immediate, effect of the report was the Education Act 1944, known as the \"Butler Act\" of Rab Butler (Lord Butler of Saffron Walden). This largely implemented main portions of the Spens Report. The 1943 Norwood Report of Sir Cyril Norwood was the main contributor to the 1944 Education Act, advocating grammar, technical and secondary modern schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2973070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2973070", "title": "The Death and Life of Great American Cities", "text": "The Death and Life of Great American Cities\n\nThe Death and Life of Great American Cities is a 1961 book by writer and activist Jane Jacobs. The book is a critique of 1950s urban planning policy, which it holds responsible for the decline of many city neighborhoods in the United States. Going against the modernist planning dogma of the era, it proposes a newfound appreciation for organic urban vibrancy in the United States.\n\nReserving her most vitriolic criticism for the \"rationalist\" planners (specifically Robert Moses) of the 1950s and 1960s, Jacobs argued that modernist urban planning rejects the city, because it rejects human beings living in a community characterized by layered complexity and seeming chaos. The modernist planners used deductive reasoning to find principles by which to plan cities. Among these policies she considered urban renewal the most violent, and separation of uses (i.e., residential, industrial, commercial) the most prevalent. These policies, she claimed, destroy communities and innovative economies by creating isolated, unnatural urban spaces.\n\nIn their place Jacobs advocated \"four generators of diversity\" that \"create effective economic pools of use\":\nHer aesthetic can be considered opposite to that of the modernists, upholding redundancy and vibrancy against order and efficiency. She frequently cites New York City's Greenwich Village as an example of a vibrant urban community. The Village, like many similar communities, may well have been preserved, at least in part, by her writing and activism. The book also played a major role in slowing the rampant redevelopment of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, where Jacobs was involved in the campaign to stop the Spadina Expressway.\n\nJacobs begins the work with blunt pugilism: \"This book is an attack on current city planning and rebuilding.\" She describes a trip to Boston's North End neighborhood in 1959, finding it friendly, safe, and healthy, and contrasting her experience against her conversations with elite planners and financiers in the area, who lament it as a \"terrible slum\" in need of renewal. Branding the mainstream theory of cities as an \"elaborately learned superstition\" that had now penetrated the thinking of planners, bureaucrats, and bankers in equal measure, she briefly traces the origins of this \"orthodox urbanism.\"\n\nIn summarizing the development of contemporary city planning theory, she begins with the Garden City of Ebenezer Howard. The Garden City was conceived as a new master-planned form, a self-sufficient town removed from the noise and squalor of late 19th century London, ringed by agriculture green belts, with schools and housing surrounding a highly prescribed commercial center. The Garden City would allow a maximum of 30,000 residents in each town, and called for a permanent public authority to carefully regulate land use and ward off the temptation to increase commercial activity or population density. Industrial factories were allowed on the periphery, provided they were masked behind green spaces. The Garden City concept was first embodied in the UK by the development of Letchworth and Welwyn Garden City, and in the US suburb of Radburn, NJ.\n\nJacobs tracks Howard's influence through American luminaries Lewis Mumford, Clarence Stein, Henry Wright, and Catherine Bauer, a collection of thinkers that Bauer referred to as \"Decentrists.\" The Decentrists proposed to use regional planning as a means to ameliorate the woes of congested cities, attracting residents to a new life in lower-density fringes and suburbs and thereby thinning out the crowded urban core. Jacobs highlights the anti-urban biases of the Garden City advocates and the Decentrists, especially their shared intuitions that communities should be self-contained units; that commingled land use created a chaotic, unpredictable, and negative environment; that the street was a bad locus for human interactions; that houses should be turned away from the street toward sheltered green spaces; that super-blocks fed by arterial roads were superior to small blocks with overlapping cross-roads; that any significant details should be dictated by permanent plan rather than shaped by organic dynamism; and that population density should be discouraged, or at least disguised to create a sense of isolation.\n\nJacobs' continues her survey of orthodox urbanism with Le Corbusier, whose Radiant City concept envisioned twenty-four towering skyscrapers within a Great Park. Superficially at odds with the low-rise, low-density ideals of the Decentrists, Le Corbusier presented his vertical city, with its 1,200 inhabitants per acre, as a way of extending the primary Garden City concepts – the super-block, regimented neighborhood planning, easy automobile access, and the insertion of large grassy expanses to keep pedestrians off the streets – into the city itself, with the explicit goal of reinventing stagnant downtowns. Jacobs concludes her introduction with a reference to the City Beautiful movement, which dotted downtown areas with civic centers, baroque boulevards, and new monument parks. These efforts borrowed concepts from other contexts, such as single-use public space disconnected from natural walking routes and the imitation of the exposition grounds at the World's Fair in Chicago.\n\n\nJacobs admits that the ideas of the Garden City and the Decentrists made sense on their own terms: a suburban town appealing to privacy-oriented, automobile-loving personalities should tout its green space and low-density housing. Jacobs' anti-orthodox frustration stems from the fact that their anti-urban biases somehow became an inextricable part of the mainstream academic and political consensus on how to design \" cities themselves\", enshrined in course curricula and federal and state legislation affecting, \"inter alia\", housing, mortgage financing, urban renewal, and zoning decisions. \"This is the most amazing event in the whole sorry tale: that finally people who sincerely wanted to strengthen great cities should adopt recipes frankly devised for undermining their economies and killing them.\" She is less sympathetic toward Le Corbusier, noting with dismay that the dream city, however impractical and detached from the actual context of existing cities, \"was hailed deliriously by architects, and has gradually been embodied in scores of projects, ranging from low-income public housing to office building projects.\" She expresses further concern that, in seeking to avoid becoming contaminated by \"the workaday city,\" isolated City Beautiful efforts dismally failed to attract visitors, were prone to unsavory loitering and dispirited decay, and ironically hastened the pace of urban demise.\n\nJacobs frames the sidewalk as a central mechanism in maintaining the order of the city. \"This order is all composed of movement and change, and although it is life, not art, we may fancifully call it the art form of the city and liken it to the dance.\" To Jacobs, the sidewalk is the quotidian stage for an \"intricate ballet in which the individual dancers and ensembles all have distinctive parts which miraculously reinforce each other and compose an orderly whole.\"\n\nJacobs posits cities as fundamentally different from towns and suburbs principally because they are full of strangers. More precisely, the ratio of strangers to acquaintances is necessarily lopsided everywhere one goes in the city, even outside their doorstep, \"because of the sheer number of people in small geographical compass.\" A central challenge of the city, therefore, is to make its inhabitants feel safe, secure, and socially integrated in the midst of an overwhelming volume of rotating strangers. The healthy sidewalk is a critical mechanism for achieving these ends, given its role in preventing crime and facilitating contact with others.\n\nJacobs emphasizes that city sidewalks should be considered in combination with physical environment surrounding sidewalks. As she put it, \"A city sidewalk by itself is nothing. It is an abstraction. It means something only in conjunction with the buildings and other uses that border it, or border other sidewalks very near it.\"\n\nJacobs argues that city sidewalks and people who use sidewalks actively participate in fighting against disorder and preserving civilization. They are more than \"passive beneficiaries of safety or helpless victims of danger\". The healthy city sidewalk does not rely on constant police surveillance to keep it safe, but on an \"intricate, almost unconscious, network of voluntary controls and standards among the people themselves, and enforced by the people themselves.\" Noting that a well-used street is apt to be relatively safe from crime, while a deserted street is apt to be unsafe, Jacobs suggests that a dense volume of human users deters most violent crimes, or at least ensures a critical mass of first responders to mitigate disorderly incidents. The more bustling a street, the more interesting it is for strangers to walk along or watch from inside, creating an ever larger pool of unwitting deputies who might spot early signs of trouble. In other words, healthy sidewalks transform the city's high volume of strangers from a liability to an asset. The self-enforcing mechanism is especially strong when the streets are supervised by their \"natural proprietors,\" individuals who enjoy watching street activity, feel naturally invested in its unspoken codes of conduct, and are confident that others will support their actions if necessary. They form the first line of defense for administering order on the sidewalk, supplemented by police authority when the situation demands it. She further concludes three necessary qualities that a city street needs to maintain safety: 1) a clear demarcation between public and private space; 2) eyes upon the street and sufficient buildings facing streets; 3) continuous eyes on the street to guarantee effective surveillance. Over time, a considerable number of criminological studies have applied the concept of \"eyes on the street\" in crime prevention.\n\nJacobs contrasts the natural proprietors to the \"birds of passage\", the transient and uninvested block dwellers who \"have not the remotest idea of who takes care of their street, or how.\" Jacobs warns that, while neighborhoods can absorb a large number of these individuals, \"if and when the neighborhood finally \"becomes\" them, they will gradually find the streets less secure, they will be vaguely mystified about it, and...they will drift away.\" \n\nJacobs draws a parallel between empty streets and the deserted corridors, elevators, and stairwells in high-rise public housing projects. These \"blind-eyed\" spaces, modeled after the upper-class standards for apartment living but lacking the amenities of access control, doormen, elevator men, engaged building management, or related supervisory functions, are ill-equipped to handle strangers, and therefore the presence of strangers becomes \"an automatic menace.\" They are open to the public but shielded from public view, and thus \"lack the checks and inhibitions exerted by eye-policed city streets,\" becoming flash points for destructive and malicious behavior. As residents feel progressively unsafe outside their apartments, they increasingly disengage from the life of the building and exhibit tendencies of birds of passage. These troubles are not irreversible. Jacobs claims that a Brooklyn project successfully reduced vandalism and theft by opening the corridors to public view, equipping them as play spaces and narrow porches, and even letting tenants use them as picnic grounds.\n\nBuilding on the idea that a bustling pedestrian environment is a prerequisite for city safety in the absence of a contracted surveillance force, Jacobs recommends a substantial quantity of stores, bars, restaurants, and other public places \"sprinkled along the sidewalks\" as a means to this end. She argues that if city planners persist in ignoring sidewalk life, residents will resort to three coping mechanisms as the streets turn deserted and unsafe: 1) move out of the neighborhood, allowing the danger to persist for those too poor to move anywhere else, 2) retreat to the automobile, interacting with the city only as a motorist and never on foot, or 3) cultivate a sense of neighborhood \"Turf\", cordoning off upscale developments from unsavory surroundings using cyclone fences and patrolmen.\n\nSidewalk life permits a range of casual public interactions, from asking for directions and getting advice from the grocer, to nodding hello to passersby and admiring a new dog. \"Most of it is ostensibly trivial but the sum is not trivial at all.\" The sum is \"a web of public respect and trust,\" the essence of which is that it \"implies no private commitments\" and protects precious privacy. In other words, city dwellers know that they can engage in sidewalk life without fear of \"entangling relationships\" or oversharing the details of one's personal life. Jacobs contrasts this to areas with no sidewalk life, including low-density suburbia, where residents must either expose a more significant portion of their private lives to a small number of intimate contacts or else settle for a lack of contact altogether. In order to sustain the former, residents must become exceedingly deliberate in choosing their neighbors and their associations. Arrangements of this sort, Jacobs argues, can work well \"for self-selected upper-middle-class people,\" but fails to work for anyone else.\n\nResidents in places with no sidewalk life are conditioned to avoid basic interactions with strangers, especially those of a different income, race, or educational background, to the extent that they cannot imagine having a deep personal relationship with others so unlike themselves. This is a false choice on any bustling sidewalk, where everyone is afforded the same dignity, right of way, and incentive to interact without fear of compromising one's privacy or creating new personal obligations. In this way, suburban residents ironically tend to have \"less\" privacy in their social lives than their urban counterparts, in addition to a dramatically reduced volume of public acquaintances.\n\nSidewalks are great places for children to play under the general supervision of parents and other natural proprietors of the street. More importantly, sidewalks are where children learn the \"first fundamental of successful city life: People must take a modicum of public responsibility for each other even if they have no ties to each other.\" Over countless minor interactions, children absorb the fact that the sidewalk's natural proprietors are invested in their safety and well-being, even lacking ties of kinship, close friendship, or formal responsibility. This lesson cannot be institutionalized or replicated by hired help, as it is essentially an organic and informal responsibility.\n\nJacobs states that sidewalks of thirty to thirty-five feet in width are ideal, capable of accommodating any demands for general play, trees to shade the activity, pedestrian circulation, adult public life, and even loitering. However, she admits that such width is a luxury in the era of the automobile, and finds solace that twenty-foot sidewalks – precluding rope jumping but still capable of lively mixed use – can still be found. Even if it lacks proper width, a sidewalk can be a compelling place for children to congregate and develop if the location is convenient and the streets are interesting.\n\nOrthodox urbanism defines parks as \"boons conferred on the deprived populations of cities.\" Jacobs challenges the reader to invert this relationship, and \"consider city parks deprived places that need the boon of life and appreciation conferred on \"them\".\" Parks become lively and successful for the same reason as sidewalks: \"because of functional physical diversity among adjacent uses, and hence diversity among users and their schedules.\" Jacobs offers four tenets of good park design: intricacy (stimulating a variety of uses and repeat users), centering (a main crossroads, pausing point, or climax), access to sunlight, and enclosure (the presence of buildings and a diversity of surroundings).\n\nThe fundamental rule of the neighborhood sidewalk also applies to the neighborhood park: \"liveliness and variety attract more liveliness; deadness and monotony repel life.\" Jacobs admits that a well-designed park in a focal point of a lively neighborhood can be an enormous asset. But with so many worthy urban investments going unfunded, Jacobs warns against \"frittering away money on parks, playgrounds and project land-oozes too large, too frequent, too perfunctory, too ill-located, and hence too dull or too inconvenient to be used.\"\n\nJacobs bristles at the orthodox conception of a city neighborhood as a modular, insulated grouping of roughly 7,000 residents, the estimated number of persons to populate an elementary school and support a neighborhood market and community center. Jacobs believes this definition provincial and arbitrary; a feature of a great city is the mobility of residents and fluidity of use across diverse areas of varying size and character, not modular fragmentation. Jacobs' alternative is to define neighborhoods at three levels of geographic and political organization: city-level, street-level, and district-level.\n\nThe city of New York as a whole is itself a neighborhood, the parent community from which public money flows, administrative and policy decisions are made, and conflicts of general welfare are resolved on behalf of districts. Civic associations and special interest groups – from opera societies to public unions – are often formed at the city level, creating like-minded communities of interest that coordinate local activities. At the opposite end of the scale, individual streets – such as Hudson Street in Greenwich Village – can also be characterized as neighborhoods. Street-level city neighborhoods, as argued elsewhere in the book, should aspire to have a sufficient frequency of commerce, general liveliness, use and interest so as to sustain public street life. They are not discrete units of fixed length, but economic and social continuities of all proximate street-level neighborhoods.\n\nFinally, the district of Greenwich Village is itself neighborhood, with a shared functional identity and common fabric. The primary purpose of the district neighborhood is to intermediate between the needs of the street-level neighborhoods and the resource allocation and policy decisions made at the city-level. Jacobs estimates the maximum effective size of a city district to be 200,000 people and 1.5 square miles, but prefers a functional definition over a spatial definition: \"big enough to fight city hall, but not so big that street neighborhoods are unable to draw district attention and to count.\" District boundaries are fluid and overlapping, but are sometimes defined by physical obstructions such as major roadways and landmarks.\n\nJacobs recommends four pillars of effective city neighborhood planning:\n\nJacobs ultimately defines neighborhood quality as a function of how well it can govern and protect itself over time, employing a combination of residential cooperation, political clout, and financial vitality. \"A successful city neighborhood is a place that keeps sufficiently abreast of its problems so it is not destroyed by them. An unsuccessful neighborhood is a place that is overwhelmed by its defects and problems and is progressively more hapless before them.\"\n\nThe book continues to be Jacobs' most influential, and is still widely read by both planning professionals and the general public. It has been translated into six languages and has sold over a quarter-million copies. Urban theorist Lewis Mumford, while finding fault with her methodology, encouraged Jacobs' early writings in the \"New York Review of Books\". Robert Caro has cited Jacobs' book as the strongest influence on \"The Power Broker\", his biography of Robert Moses. Samuel R. Delany's book \"Times Square Red, Times Square Blue\" relies heavily on \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" in its analysis of the nature of social relations within the realm of urban studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "19480203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19480203", "title": "Toyota Technology Challenge", "text": "Toyota Technology Challenge\n\nThe Toyota Technology Challenge is an environmentally friendly engineering and technology competition for young people in the United Kingdom. The competition has been developed by Toyota Manufacturing UK in partnership with Rapid Electronics.\n\nThe TTC has been running for over 10 years now (May 2012). Toyota Motor Manufacturing (UK) Ltd are looking into improvements that will make it easier for schools to compete against each other and reduce the workload on schools entering. From 1 May 2012 to 1 June 2012, a short survey is available at http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/C6HK2SW to gauge opinions of the TTC and also other educational 'car' based competitions. This survey will help shape the TTC competition in future years.\n\nThe challenge is targeted at pupils in Science and Technology at Key Stages 3 and 4 (aged 11–16) of the National Curriculum. Teams of three to five pupils are asked to design and build an environmentally friendly model vehicle using either solar power or PIC microcontroller technology. The competition offers students the chance to put their electronics and engineering skills into practice. Pupils are encouraged to consider the environmental impact of their creations and the potential use of recycled materials.\n\nThe challenge consists of three stages: the submission of a project folder, Regional Finals and the National Final. Once registered into the competition, schools receive a free kit containing all the electronic components necessary to build a vehicle. Teams can earn extra marks by making their vehicle more environmentally friendly, improving its performance and creating a team identity.\n\nThe winners of the Regional Finals win £250 for their schools and qualify for the National Final, which takes place at the manufacturing plant of Toyota Manufacturing UK at Burnaston, Derbyshire. The winners of the National Final receive £750 for their schools and a European holiday.\n\nContestants in the solar power category must create a vehicle which illustrates the idea of a car of the future, capable of harnessing solar energy, storing it and releasing it under controlled conditions. The vehicle must include recycled or recyclable components or materials within its design.\n\nThe PIC microcontroller teams design and build a program-controlled environmentally friendly model vehicle, using a PIC microcontroller to provide in-built intelligence so that it can automatically avoid obstacles on a track. The vehicle must include recycled or recyclable components within its design.\n\nThe 2010 winners were:\n"}
{"id": "245733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245733", "title": "Trial and error", "text": "Trial and error\n\nTrial and error is a fundamental method of problem solving. It is characterised by repeated, varied attempts which are continued until success, or until the agent stops trying.\n\nAccording to W.H. Thorpe, the term was devised by C. Lloyd Morgan (1852–1936) after trying out similar phrases \"trial and failure\" and \"trial and practice\". Under Morgan's Canon, animal behaviour should be explained in the simplest possible way. Where behaviour seems to imply higher mental processes, it might be explained by trial-and-error learning. An example is the skillful way in which his terrier Tony opened the garden gate, easily misunderstood as an insightful act by someone seeing the final behaviour. Lloyd Morgan, however, had watched and recorded the series of approximations by which the dog had gradually learned the response, and could demonstrate that no insight was required to explain it.\n\nEdward Thorndike showed how to manage a trial-and-error experiment in the laboratory. In his famous experiment, a cat was placed in a series of puzzle boxes in order to study the law of effect in learning. He plotted learning curves which recorded the timing for each trial. Thorndike's key observation was that learning was promoted by positive results, which was later refined and extended by B.F. Skinner's operant conditioning.\n\nTrial and error is also a heuristic method of problem solving, repair, tuning, or obtaining knowledge. In the field of computer science, the method is called generate and test. In elementary algebra, when solving equations, it is \"guess and check\".\n\nThis approach can be seen as one of the two basic approaches to problem solving, contrasted with an approach using insight and theory. However, there are intermediate methods which for example, use theory to guide the method, an approach known as \"guided empiricism\".\n\nThis approach is far more successful with simple problems and in games, and is often resorted to when no apparent rule applies. This does not mean that the approach need be careless, for an individual can be methodical in manipulating the variables in an attempt to sort through possibilities that may result in success. Nevertheless, this method is often used by people who have little knowledge in the problem area. The trial-and-error approach has been studied from its natural computational point of view \n\nAshby (1960, section 11/5) offers three simple strategies for dealing with the same basic exercise-problem; and they have very different efficiencies:\nSuppose there are 1000 on/off switches which have to be set to a particular combination by random-based testing, each test to take one second. [This is also discussed in Traill (1978/2006, section C1.2]. The strategies are:\n\nNote the tacit assumption here that no intelligence or insight is brought to bear on the problem. However, the existence of different available strategies allows us to consider a separate (\"superior\") domain of processing — a \"meta-level\" above the mechanics of switch handling — where the various available strategies can be randomly chosen. Once again this is \"trial and error\", but of a different type. This leads us to:\n\nAshby's book develops this \"meta-level\" idea, and extends it into a whole recursive sequence of levels, successively above each other in a systematic hierarchy. On this basis he argues that human intelligence emerges from such organization: relying heavily on trial-and-error (at least initially at each new stage), but emerging with what we would call \"intelligence\" at the end of it all. Thus presumably the topmost level of the hierarchy (at any stage) will still depend on simple trial-and-error.\n\nTraill (1978/2006) suggests that this Ashby-hierarchy probably coincides with Piaget's well-known theory of developmental stages. [This work also discusses Ashby's 1000-switch example; see §C1.2]. After all, it is part of Piagetian doctrine that children learn by first \"actively doing\" in a more-or-less random way, and then hopefully learn from the consequences — which all has a certain to Ashby's random \"trial-and-error\".\n\nTraill (2008, \"espec. Table \"S\" on p.31\") follows Jerne and Popper in seeing this strategy as probably underlying \"all\" knowledge-gathering systems — \"at least in their initial phase\".\n\nFour such systems are identified:\n\nIn the Ashby-and-Cybernetics tradition, the word \"trial\" usually implies \"random-or-arbitrary\", without any \"deliberate\" choice.\n\nHowever amongst non-cyberneticians, \"trial\" will often imply a deliberate subjective act by some adult human agent; (e.g. in a court-room, or laboratory). So that has sometimes led to confusion.\n\nOf course the situation becomes even more confusing if one accepts Ashby's hierarchical explanation of intelligence, and its implied ability to be deliberate and to creatively design — all based ultimately on \"non-deliberate\" actions. The lesson here seems to be that one must simply be careful to clarify the meaning of one's own words, and indeed the words of others. [Incidentally it seems that \"consciousness\" is not an essential ingredient for \"intelligence\" as discussed \nOne of the greatest inventor with 1093 patents was Thomas Alva Edison (TAE). One of his most famous sayings was that \"Genius was 5% inspiration and 95% perspiration\". Edison and his assistants would tried 500 ways to invent something and when not succeesful, they would try another 500 ways. When an experiment was not successful, he was happy to admit that he now knew the things that did not work. Trial and error was Edison's most successful means of invention. Most today believe Edison did not follow a scientific theory to invent but invented by: Trial And Error (TAE). \n\nToday, the approach of voodoo programming is an usage where code is composed with trial and error until something which produces the desired output is found.\n\nTrial and error has a number of features:\n\nIt is possible to use trial and error to find all solutions or the best solution, when a testably finite number of possible solutions exist. To find all solutions, one simply makes a note and continues, rather than ending the process, when a solution is found, until all solutions have been tried. To find the best solution, one finds all solutions by the method just described and then comparatively evaluates them based upon some predefined set of criteria, the existence of which is a condition for the possibility of finding a best solution. (Also, when only one solution can exist, as in assembling a jigsaw puzzle, then any solution found is the only solution and so is necessarily the best.)\n\nTrial and error has traditionally been the main method of finding new drugs, such as antibiotics. Chemists simply try chemicals at random until they find one with the desired effect. In a more sophisticated version, chemists select a narrow range of chemicals it is thought may have some effect using a technique called structure-activity relationship. (The latter case can be alternatively considered as a changing of the problem rather than of the solution strategy: instead of \"What chemical will work well as an antibiotic?\" the problem in the sophisticated approach is \"Which, if any, of the chemicals in this narrow range will work well as an antibiotic?\") The method is used widely in many disciplines, such as polymer technology to find new polymer types or families.\n\nTrial and error is also commonly seen in player responses to video games - when faced with an obstacle or boss, players often form a number of strategies to surpass the obstacle or defeat the boss, with each strategy being carried out before the player either succeeds or quits the game. \n\nSports teams also make use of trial and error to qualify for and/or progress through the playoffs and win the championship, attempting different strategies, plays, lineups and formations in hopes of defeating each and every opponent along the way to victory. This is especially crucial in playoff series in which multiple wins are required to advance, where a team that loses a game will have the opportunity to try new tactics to find a way to win, if they are not eliminated yet.\n\nThe scientific method can be regarded as containing an element of trial and error in its formulation and testing of hypotheses. Also compare genetic algorithms, simulated annealing and reinforcement learning – all varieties for search which apply the basic idea of trial and error.\n\nBiological evolution can be considered as a form of trial and error. Random mutations and sexual genetic variations can be viewed as trials and poor reproductive fitness, or lack of improved fitness, as the error. Thus after a long time 'knowledge' of well-adapted genomes accumulates simply by virtue of them being \"able\" to reproduce.\n\nBogosort, a conceptual sorting algorithm (that is extremely inefficient and impractical), can be viewed as a trial and error approach to sorting a list. However, typical simple examples of bogosort do not track which orders of the list have been tried and may try the same order any number of times, which violates one of the basic principles of trial and error. Trial and error is actually more efficient and practical than bogosort; unlike bogosort, it is guaranteed to halt in finite time on a finite list, and might even be a reasonable way to sort extremely short lists under some conditions.\n\nJumping spiders of the genus \"Portia\" use trial and error to find new tactics against unfamiliar prey or in unusual situations, and remember the new tactics. Tests show that \"Portia fimbriata\" and \"Portia labiata\" can use trial and error in an artificial environment, where the spider's objective is to cross a miniature lagoon that is too wide for a simple jump, and must either jump then swim or only swim.\n\n"}
{"id": "338894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338894", "title": "Truancy", "text": "Truancy\n\nTruancy is any intentional, unjustified, unauthorized, or illegal absence from compulsory education. It is absence caused by students of their own free will, and usually does not refer to legitimate excused absences, such as ones related to medical conditions. Truancy is usually explicitly defined in the school's handbook of policies and procedures. Some children whose parents claim to homeschool have also been found truant in the United States. Other terms for truancy include playing hooky (US English), skiving off (British English), and bunking. Attending school but not going to class is called skipping class.\n\nIn some schools, truancy may result in not being able to graduate or to receive credit for classes attended, until the time lost to truancy is made up through a combination of detention, fines, or summer school.\n\nTruancy is a frequent subject of popular culture. \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\" is about the title character's (played by Matthew Broderick) day of truancy in Chicago with his girlfriend and best friend. \"Truancy\" is also the title of a 2008 novel about a student uprising against a dictatorial educational system.\n\nThere are experiences that show that thanks to the incorporation of Successful Educational Actions (SEAs) in schools with high absenteeism they have managed to reduce truancy and thus contribute to the improvement of academic success. \n\nThere are a number of expressions in most languages which refer to truancy. In South Africa, the slang used is \"bunking\", \"mulling\", \"skipping\" or \"jippo\". In Jamaica, it is called \"skulling\". In Guyana \"skulking\". In Antigua and Barbuda, it is called \"skudding\". In New Zealand and Australia truancy is called \"wagging\", \"jigging\", \"ditching\", or \"skipping school\". It is called \"bunking (off)\" or \"skiving\" or \"wagging\" in the United Kingdom, \"mitching\", \"twagging\", \"skiving\" or \"on the knock\". In Wales, \"mitching or\" \"sagging\". In Liverpool, \"bunking\" or \"cutting class\", \"doggin\", \"skiving\", \"playing tickie\" or \"puggin\". In Scotland, \"on the hop\", \"on the bunk\", \"mitching\", \"beaking\", \"skiving\", \"doggin it\" or \"on the beak\". In Ireland, \"mitching\", \"on the hop\", \"dossing\", \"on the duck\" or \"skiving\". In the United States and Canada expressions include \"hooky\", \"playing hooky\", \"ditching\", \"dipping\", \"jigging\", \"sluffing\", \"skipping\", \"cutting class\", or simply just \"cutting\". In the city of St. John's, the act of truancy is known amongst youths as \"pipping off\", and truant students are described as being \"on the pip\". In Trinidad and Tobago, it is referred to as \"breaking biche\". In Singapore and Malaysia, it is referred to as \"fly\". In the state of Utah a \"sluff\" is a commonly used word referring to a truancy. In Pakistan and India it is referred to as \"bunking\". In South Korea, it is called \"ddaeng-ddaeng-i\" (땡땡이 [땡땡이 치다]). In Japan, It is called \"zuruyasumi\". In Indonesia, It is called \"bolos\" or \"cabut\".\n\nIn Denmark, some welfare benefits can be confiscated for a period if the child does not attend school. However, not all cities use this approach to keep the children in school. Most cities watch for families who have not returned their children to school after the summer vacation because some groups exiled their children to their ethnic home countries for behavior modification. In the city of Aarhus, 155 children had not turned up one week after the school started. In April 2009, research among 4,000 students showed that more than every third student had been absent during the last 14 days.\n\nIn Finland truant pupils usually get detention in comprehensive schools. The police are not involved in truancy control but the teachers of the school monitor the school area and sometimes the nearby areas during recess to avoid unauthorized absence. If the pupil is absent for a long period of time the parents may be fined. The aim of fining is to try to force parents to put their children into school. The child will not be escorted to school, but can be taken away from parents if continued.\n\nIn Germany, the parents of a child absent from school without a legitimate excuse are notified by the school. If the parents refuse to send their child to school or are unable to control their child, local child services or social services officers may request the police to escort the child to school, and in extreme cases may petition a court to partially or completely remove child custody from the parents. Parents may also be fined in cases of refusal.\n\nIn England and Wales, truancy is a criminal offence for parents if the child concerned is registered at school. Truancy laws do not apply to children educated at home or otherwise under Section 7 of the Act. Since the passage of the Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000, parents of persistent truants may be imprisoned for up to three months. In 2002, the first parent was imprisoned under this provision.\n\nSince 1998, a police officer of or above the rank of superintendent may direct that for a specified time in a specified area a police officer may remove a child believed to be absent from a school without authority to that school or to another designated place. However this is not a power of arrest and it is not a power to detain, and does not make truancy a criminal offence. There is a warning given the first time the parents allow the child to commit truancy, but if they allow it more than once, then the parents are given a fine starting from £50. Some charities have highlighted an increasing prevalence of truancy among impoverished girls during menstruation, especially among girls who do not have easy access to sanitary products.\n\nIn the United States, truancy regulations are generally enforced by school officials under the context of parental responsibility. New automated calling systems allow the automated notification of parents when a child is not marked present in the computer, and truancy records for many states are available for inspection online. In large schools where law enforcement officers are present, the fine for \"playing hooky\" can range from $250 to as much as $500. About 12,000 students were ticketed for truancy in 2008 in Los Angeles. Many states provide for the appointment of local truancy officers who have the authority to arrest habitually truant youths and bring them to their parents or to the school they are supposed to attend. Many states also have the power to revoke a student's driver's license or permit. Where it exists, a school truancy officer is often a constable or sheriff, concurrently. The position of a full-time truancy officer is generally viewed as being a relic from the 19th century when mandatory school attendance was relatively new.\n\nChildren are required by law to attend school until they reach a certain age, which varies by state (typically 16-18 years), unless an absence is formally excused by a school official or the child has been expelled.\n\nChildren in private school or homeschooling are exempt from attending mandatory public schooling.\n\nIn Poland and the Faroe Islands, the first day of spring (March 21) is an unofficial occasion popular among children, who traditionally play truant on that day. Similarly, students in the United States have Senior Skip Day. The date for skip day varies among different schools. In the Eastern United States, Senior Skip Day is often celebrated on the last Friday before Spring Break, or in some cases, the Monday after prom.\n\n"}
{"id": "32388976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32388976", "title": "UniNettuno University TV", "text": "UniNettuno University TV\n\nUniNettuno University TV (formerly Rai Nettuno Sat 1) is an Italian educational television channel owned by Università telematica internazionale UniNettuno, a distance education organisation. In 2009, a second channel, Rai Nettuno Sat Due, began broadcasting (which was ceased a few years later).\n"}
{"id": "17658947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17658947", "title": "University of the Andes Library Services", "text": "University of the Andes Library Services\n\nThe University of the Andes Library Services, officially known as SERBIULA (from the acronym in Spanish for \"Servicios Bibliotecarios de la Universidad de Los Andes\"), is the organization responsible for managing and directing all the different libraries of its parent institution, the University of the Andes, one of the main universities in Venezuela.\n\nThe University of the Andes is not located in a single central campus, but in rather smaller campuses and branches; most of which are scattered across the andean and singularly university city of Mérida, while the others are located in different states of the country, with their respective library alongside.\n\nBack in 1785, Bishop Juan Ramos de Lora, a Franciscan clergyman from Seville, opened a Catholic seminary in Mérida, a remote village in the Andes mountains of what is now Venezuela, under Spanish rule by then. Once the seminary opened, he gathered and collected many books for its library. It was initially composed of some salvaged antique books which dated back centuries, as far as the Conquista times. It also included many \"oeuvres\" from his personal collection and some more from the collaborations and donations of priest friends, ministers and other prominent figures from his episcopate. Hence, the library’s first books were comprehensive in canon law, civil law, medicine, philosophy and literature. Regarding the seminary, just a few years after it was founded, local authorities started lobbying to seek the grant of the Spanish government to establish it as a university. The university charter was granted in 1806, but due to the bellicose period in the region it was only validated in 1810 thus the seminary became known as the \"Real Universidad de San Buenaventura de Mérida\" (Saint Bonaventure Royal University of Mérida), short before the Venezuelan Declaration of Independence. The library slowly but steadily followed the evolution of its sheltering University.\n\nMost of Venezuela's 19th century was a troublesome period. It was characterized by political turmoil, autocratic rule and consistent \"coups d'état\" which more often than not hindered the evolution of the academia in the country. Nevertheless, in the last decades of the century a steady political stability became foreseeable. In 1883 the Venezuelan government decided to review the law on the \"higher and scientific national education\", in which the country's two existing universities at the time were renamed with their contemporary name; i.e. \"Universidad de Los Andes\" for the University of the Andes, and \"Universidad Central de Venezuela\" for the Central University of Venezuela in Caracas.\n\nWith the change of name and policies came a wave of institutional revampment. So, on August 1, 1888 the then Chancellor of the University, Dr. Caracciolo Parra, issued a decree ordaining the following:\n\nThe University Library was at last inaugurated on October 27, 1889. By the end of 1894 the Library was counting 1,436 titles and 1,725 volumes. By the turn of the 20th century these figures had bloomed to 2,120 and 2,572 respectively.\n\nWell into the 1900s (decade), the University Library was not any longer the sole library of the institution. Thence it began to be known as the Central Library. It espoused the responsibility of organizing the libraries of the different faculties of the university as they came to existence, and likewise for the training their corresponding personnel. Furthermore, it also conducted the acquisition of all the new resources and equipment for all of the faculty libraries. However, it was the responsibility of every faculty to fund their operation and administration.\n\nIn 1977 the libraries of the faculties of Sciences, Economic Sciences, and Engineering, all three located within the same campus, were merged into the \"Integrated Library of Sciences, Economics and Engineering\" (\"BIECI\" for its acronym in Spanish). This was the first unification of different library services that took place within the University. A project proposal for taking this initiative to a higher level was put forth the University Council a couple of years later. The project submitted the comprehensive integration of all the university’s library services into a greater single one. It was swiftly approved on March 6, 1980 and the resulting body was simply named University of Los Andes Library Services (\"SERBIULA\"). SERBIULA had and still has the responsibility of integrating all the existing library services and keeping them up-to-date with the University demands. Additionally, SERBIULA created and manages the university’s Library System, whose coordination follows a decentralized approach as a consequence of having the University campuses scattered all around the city. Another goal is improving the efficiency of human, technical and financial resources.\n\nThe automation of library services in the University began with the creation of the aforementioned \"BIECI\" library—currently renamed \"BIACI\", but more specifically with the launch of its ICT department (simply known as \"Informática\"). The broad purpose of this department was and still is to imprint ever more efficient, functional, and modern Information retrieval processes to the library services. The early stages of this scheme began with the instalment of the following systems:\n\nThis early instalment was followed by the development of some middle-stage projects. These projects definitively ignited and set the pace for the continuous ICT updating and upgrading trend for the SERBIULA library services. Among these, the more important were:\n\nThis accumulated know-how resulted in the creation of the \"ULA Information and Documentation System\" (SIDULA). It was originally designed to be a comprehensive library management system that would physically centralize all the acquisitions, cataloguing and loans. With the evolution in the University networks, it was ultimately redesigned to work as a client–server system.\n\nSERBIULA aims at improving and optimizing all library-related services. In 2000 it established the university's \"Electronic Information Services\" (SIE). In 2003 there were two major additions: the creation of the university’s Digital Library (\"Biblioteca Digital\"), one of the university's main responsible organizations for the on-line dissemination of its historical, cultural, audiovisual, and scientific-academic heritage and production. And secondly, the incorporation to the later of the \"Index for Venezuelan Science and Technology Journals\" (REVENCYT) under the SciELO platform.\n\n2005 witnessed the development of the open stack library –somehow a novelty in these latitudes, as well as major physical and virtual revamping and upgrading of the whole library network. It was also the year in which SERBIULA embraced LIBRUM as its main library management system. LIBRUM is a locally developed GNU/GPL OPAC management software that handles cataloguing, item circulation, acquisitions, statistics, user administration, thesaurus and full-text e-publication; most notably under the OAI-PMH protocol.\n\nIn 2006 the ULA arose as the first Venezuelan organization ever to become (alongside three other Latin American organizations) signatory to the 2003 Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities. This initiative pertains to the online open access of the scientific production of the institution (the ULA for this particular case), thus giving \"Biblioteca Digital\" a new job cut up for itself.\n\nStill under process, the other ULA e-services and projects managed by \"Biblioteca Digital-SERBIULA\" are:\n\nNationwide recognition presented itself in 2007 under the National Book Award, for the Library Service category.\n\nIn June 2008, SERBIULA alongside other branch offices of the university, organized the workshop \"REVENCYT-Redalyc, Taller bi-nacional de Editores de Revistas Científicas Venezolanas\", with two main purposes:\n\nWithin the different \"campi\" in Mérida \n\nULA Libraries in other Venezuelan cities and states \n\n"}
{"id": "33821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33821", "title": "Whistleblower", "text": "Whistleblower\n\nA whistleblower (also written as whistle-blower or whistle blower) is a person who exposes any kind of information or activity that is deemed illegal, unethical, or not correct within an organization that is either private or public. The information of alleged wrongdoing can be classified in many ways: violation of company policy/rules, law, regulation, or threat to public interest/national security, as well as fraud, and corruption. Those who become whistleblowers can choose to bring information or allegations to surface either internally or externally. Internally, a whistleblower can bring his/her accusations to the attention of other people within the accused organization such as an immediate supervisor. Externally, a whistleblower can bring allegations to light by contacting a third party outside of an accused organization such as the media, government, law enforcement, or those who are concerned. Whistleblowers, however, take the risk of facing stiff reprisal and retaliation from those who are accused or alleged of wrongdoing.\n\nBecause of this, a number of laws exist to protect whistleblowers. Some third party groups even offer protection to whistleblowers, but that protection can only go so far. Whistleblowers face legal action, criminal charges, social stigma, and termination from any position, office, or job. Two other classifications of whistleblowing are private and public. The classifications relate to the type of organizations someone chooses to whistle-blow on: private sector, or public sector. Depending on many factors, both can have varying results. However, whistleblowing in the public sector organization is more likely to result in criminal charges and possible custodial sentences. A whistleblower who chooses to accuse a private sector organization or agency is more likely to face termination and legal and civil charges.\n\nDeeper questions and theories of whistleblowing and why people choose to do so can be studied through an ethical approach. Whistleblowing is a topic of ongoing ethical debate. Leading arguments in the ideological camp that whistleblowing is ethical maintain that whistleblowing is a form of civil disobedience, and aims to protect the public from government wrongdoing. In the opposite camp, some see whistleblowing as unethical for breaching confidentiality, especially in industries that handle sensitive client or patient information. Legal protection can also be granted to protect whistleblowers, but that protection is subject to many stipulations. Hundreds of laws grant protection to whistleblowers, but stipulations can easily cloud that protection and leave whistleblowers vulnerable to retaliation and legal trouble. However, the decision and action has become far more complicated with recent advancements in technology and communication. Whistleblowers frequently face reprisal, sometimes at the hands of the organization or group they have accused, sometimes from related organizations, and sometimes under law. Questions about the legitimacy of whistleblowing, the moral responsibility of whistleblowing, and the appraisal of the institutions of whistleblowing are part of the field of political ethics.\n\nU.S. civic activist Ralph Nader is said to have coined the phrase, but he in fact put a positive spin on the term in the early 1970s to avoid the negative connotations found in other words such as \"informer\" and \"snitch\". However, the origins of the word date back to the 19th century.\n\nThe word is linked to the use of a whistle to alert the public or a crowd about a bad situation, such as the commission of a crime or the breaking of rules during a game. The phrase \"whistle blower\" attached itself to law enforcement officials in the 19th century because they used a whistle to alert the public or fellow police. Sports referees, who use a whistle to indicate an illegal or foul play, also were called whistle blowers.\n\nAn 1883 story in the \"Janesville Gazette\" called a policeman who used his whistle to alert citizens about a riot a \"whistle blower\", without the hyphen. By the year 1963, the phrase had become a hyphenated word, \"whistle-blower\". The word began to be used by journalists in the 1960s for people who revealed wrongdoing, such as Nader. It eventually evolved into the compound word \"whistleblower\".\n\nMost whistleblowers are internal whistleblowers, who report misconduct on a fellow employee or superior within their company through anonymous reporting mechanisms often called hotlines. One of the most interesting questions with respect to internal whistleblowers is why and under what circumstances do people either act on the spot to stop illegal and otherwise unacceptable behavior or report it. There are some reasons to believe that people are more likely to take action with respect to unacceptable behavior, within an organization, if there are complaint systems that offer not just options dictated by the planning and control organization, but a \"choice\" of options for absolute confidentiality.\n\nAnonymous reporting mechanisms, as mentioned previously, help foster a climate whereby employees are more likely to report or seek guidance regarding potential or actual wrongdoing without fear of retaliation. The coming anti-bribery management systems standard, ISO 37001, includes anonymous reporting as one of the criteria for the new standard.\n\nExternal whistleblowers, however, report misconduct to outside persons or entities. In these cases, depending on the information's severity and nature, whistleblowers may report the misconduct to lawyers, the media, law enforcement or watchdog agencies, or other local, state, or federal agencies. In some cases, external whistleblowing is encouraged by offering monetary reward.\n\nThe third party service involves utilizing an external agency to inform the individuals at the top of the organizational pyramid of misconduct, without disclosing the identity of the whistleblower. This is a relatively new phenomenon and has been developed due to whistleblower discrimination. International Whistleblowers is an example of an organization involved in delivering a third party service for whistleblowers.\n\nAn increasing number of companies and authorities use third party services in which the whistleblower is anonymous also towards the third party service provider. This is possible via toll free phone numbers configured not to record the whistleblower origin call, and also through web solutions which apply asymmetrical encryption.\n\nPrivate sector whistleblowing, though not as high profile as public sector whistleblowing, is arguably more prevalent and suppressed in society today. Simply because private corporations usually have stricter regulations that suppress potential whistleblowers. An example of private sector whistleblowing is when an employee reports to someone in a higher position such as a manager, or a third party that is isolated from the individual chapter, such as their lawyer or the police. In the private sector corporate groups can easily hide wrongdoings by individual branches. It is not until these wrongdoings bleed into the top officials that corporate wrongdoings are seen by the public. Situations in which a person may blow the whistle are in cases of violated laws or company policy, such as sexual harassment or theft. These instances, nonetheless, are small compared to money laundering or fraud charges on the stock market. Whistleblowing in the private sector is typically not as high-profile or openly discussed in major news outlets, though occasionally, third parties expose human rights violations and exploitation of workers. While there are organizations such as the United States Department of Labor (DOL), and laws in place such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the United States Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations (FSGO) which protects whistleblowers in the private sector, many employees still fear for their jobs due to direct or indirect threats from their employers or the other parties involved. In an effort to overcome those fears, in 2010 Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was put forth to provide great incentive to whistleblowers. For example, if a whistleblower gave information which could be used to legally recover over one million dollars; then they could receive ten to thirty percent of it.\n\nDespite government efforts to help regulate the private sector, the employees must still weigh their options. They either expose the company and stand the moral and ethical high ground; or expose the company, lose their job, their reputation and potentially the ability to be employed again. According to a study at the University of Pennsylvania, out of three hundred whistleblowers studied, sixty nine percent of them had foregone that exact situation; and they were either fired or were forced to retire after taking the ethical high ground. It is outcomes like that which makes it all that much harder to accurately track how prevalent whistleblowing is in the private sector.\n\nRecognizing the public value of whistleblowing has been increasing over the last 50 years. In the United States, both state and Federal statutes have been put in place to protect whistleblowers from retaliation. The United States Supreme Court ruled that public sector whistleblowers are protected under First Amendment rights from any job retaliation when they raise flags over alleged corruption. Exposing misconduct or illegal or dishonest activity is a big fear for public employees because they feel they are going against their government and country. Private sector whistleblowing protection laws were in place long before ones for the public sector. After many federal whistleblowers were scrutinized in high-profile media cases, laws were finally introduced to protect government whistleblowers. These laws were enacted to help prevent corruption and encourage people to expose misconduct, illegal, or dishonest activity for the good of society. People who choose to act as whistleblowers often suffer retaliation from their employer. They most likely are fired because they are an at-will employee, which means they can be fired without a reason. There are exceptions in place for whistleblowers who are at-will employees. Even without a statute, numerous decisions encourage and protect whistleblowing on grounds of public policy. Statutes state that an employer shall not take any adverse employment actions any employee in retaliation for a good-faith report of a whistleblowing action or cooperating in any way in an investigation, proceeding, or lawsuit arising under said action. Federal whistleblower legislation includes a statute protecting all government employees. In the federal civil service, the government is prohibited from taking, or threatening to take, any personnel action against an employee because the employee disclosed information that he or she reasonably believed showed a violation of law, gross mismanagement, and gross waste of funds, abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public safety or health. To prevail on a claim, a federal employee must show that a protected disclosure was made, that the accused official knew of the disclosure, that retaliation resulted, and that there was a genuine connection between the retaliation and the employee's action.\n\nIndividual harm, public trust damage, and a threat of national security are three categories of harm that may come to whistleblowers. Revealing a whistleblower's identity automatically puts their life in harm. Some media outlets associate words like \"traitor\" and \"treason\" with whistleblowers, and many countries around the world associate treason with the death penalty, even though whoever allegedly committed treason may or may not have caused anyone physical harm. A primary reason for the death penalty is the potential endangerment of an entire people, the perpetrator therefore being responsible for any harm to come as a result. US law states,\n\n\"...whoever knowingly and willfully communicates, furnishes, transmits, or otherwise makes available to an unauthorized person, or publishes, or uses in any manner prejudicial to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of the United States any classified information.\"\n\nPublic trust dates back to the days of the Vietnam War. Henry Kissinger once said that the purpose of \"those who stole\" the Pentagon Papers was to \"undermine confidence in their government\" and \"raise doubts about our reliability in the minds of other governments, friend and foe, and indeed about the stability of our political system.\"\n\nEmotional strain on the accused from the whistleblower is also unconstrained. When a leader challenges a whistleblower, there is an automatic indictment of the leader's character. Questioning the whistleblower makes the accused guilty until proven innocent.\n\nWhistleblowers are sometimes seen as selfless martyrs for public interest and organizational accountability; others view them as \"traitors\" or \"defectors.\" Some even accuse them of solely pursuing personal glory and fame, or view their behavior as motivated by greed in qui tam cases. Some academics (such as Thomas Alured Faunce) feel that whistleblowers should at least be entitled to a rebuttable presumption that they are attempting to apply ethical principles in the face of obstacles and that whistleblowing would be more respected in governance systems if it had a firmer academic basis in virtue ethics.\n\nIt is probable that many people do not even consider blowing the whistle, not only because of fear of retaliation, but also because of fear of losing their relationships at work and outside work.\n\n\"Persecution of whistleblowers\" has become a serious issue in many parts of the world:\n\nEmployees in academia, business or government might become aware of serious risks to health and the environment, but internal policies might pose threats of retaliation to those who report these early warnings. Private company employees in particular might be at risk of being fired, demoted, denied raises and so on for bringing environmental risks to the attention of appropriate authorities. Government employees could be at a similar risk for bringing threats to health or the environment to public attention, although perhaps this is less likely.\nThere are examples of \"early warning scientists\" being harassed for bringing inconvenient truths about impending harm to the notice of the public and authorities. There have also been cases of young scientists being discouraged from entering controversial scientific fields for fear of harassment.\n\nWhistleblowers are often protected under law from employer retaliation, but in many cases punishment has occurred, such as termination, suspension, demotion, wage garnishment, and/or harsh mistreatment by other employees. A 2009 study found that up to 38% of whistleblowers experienced professional retaliation in some form, including wrongful termination. For example, in the United States, most whistleblower protection laws provide for limited \"make whole\" remedies or damages for employment losses if whistleblower retaliation is proven. However, many whistleblowers report there exists a widespread \"shoot the messenger\" mentality by corporations or government agencies accused of misconduct and in some cases whistleblowers have been subjected to criminal prosecution in reprisal for reporting wrongdoing.\n\nAs a reaction to this many private organizations have formed whistleblower legal defense funds or support groups to assist whistleblowers; three such examples are the \"National Whistleblowers Center\" in the United States, and \"Whistleblowers UK\" and \"Public Concern at Work (PCaW)\" in the United Kingdom. Depending on the circumstances, it is not uncommon for whistleblowers to be ostracized by their co-workers, discriminated against by future potential employers, or even fired from their organization. This campaign directed at whistleblowers with the goal of eliminating them from the organization is referred to as mobbing. It is an extreme form of workplace bullying wherein the group is set against the targeted individual.\n\nThere is limited research on the psychological impacts of whistle blowing. However, poor experiences of whistleblowing can cause a prolonged and prominent assault upon staff well being. As workers attempt to address concerns, they are often met with a wall of silence and hostility by management. Some whistleblowers speak of overwhelming and persistent distress, drug and alcohol problems, paranoid behaviour at work, acute anxiety, nightmares, flashbacks and intrusive thoughts. Depression is often reported by whistleblowers, and suicidal thoughts may occur in up to about 10%. General deterioration in health and self care has been described. The range of symptomatology shares many of the features of posttraumatic stress disorder, though there is debate about whether the trauma experienced by whistleblowers meets diagnostic thresholds. Increased stress related physical illness has also been described in whistleblowers. The stresses involved in whistleblowing can be huge. As such, workers remain afraid to blow the whistle, in fear that they will not be believed or they have lost faith in believing that anything will happen if they do speak out. This fear may indeed be justified, because an individual who feels threatened by whistleblowing, may plan the career destruction of the ‘complainant’ by reporting fictitious errors or rumours. This technique, labelled as ‘gaslighting’ is a common, unconventional approach used by organizations to manage employees who cause difficulty by raising concerns. In extreme cases, this technique involves the organization or manager proposing that the complainant's mental health is unstable. Organizations also often attempt to ostracise and isolate whistleblowers by undermining their concerns by suggesting that these are groundless, carrying out inadequate investigations or by ignoring them altogether. Whistleblowers may also be disciplined, suspended and reported to professional bodies upon manufactured pretexts. Where whistleblowers persist in raising their concerns, they increasingly risk detriments such as dismissal. Following dismissal, whistleblowers may struggle to find further employment due to damaged reputations, poor references and blacklisting. The social impact of whistleblowing through loss of livelihood (and sometimes pension), and family strain may also impact on whistleblowers’ psychological well being. Whistleblowers may also experience immense stress as a result of litigation regarding detriments such as unfair dismissal, which they often face with imperfect support or no support at all from unions. Whistleblowers who continue to pursue their concerns may also face long battles with official bodies such as regulators and government departments. Such bodies may reproduce the \"institutional silence\" by employers, adding to whistleblowers’ stress and difficulties. In all, some whistleblowers suffer great injustice, that may never be acknowledged or rectified. Such extreme experiences of threat and loss inevitably cause severe distress and sometimes mental illness, sometimes lasting for years afterwards. This mistreatment also deters others from coming forward with concerns. Thus, poor practices remain hidden behind a wall of silence, and prevent any organization from experiencing the improvements that may be afforded by intelligent failure. Some whistleblowers who part ranks with their organizations have had their mental stability questioned, such as Adrian Schoolcraft, the NYPD veteran who alleged falsified crime statistics in his department and was forcibly committed to a mental institution. Conversely, the emotional strain of a whistleblower investigation is devastating to the accused's family.\n\nThe definition of ethics is the moral principles that govern a person's or group's behavior. The ethical implications of whistleblowing can be negative as well as positive. However, sometimes employees may blow the whistle as an act of revenge. Rosemary O'Leary explains this in her short volume on a topic called guerrilla government. \"Rather than acting openly, guerrillas often choose to remain \"in the closet,\" moving clandestinely behind the scenes, salmon swimming upstream against the current of power. Over the years, I have learned that the motivations driving guerrillas are diverse. The reasons for acting range from the altruistic (doing the right thing) to the seemingly petty (I was passed over for that promotion). Taken as a whole, their acts are as awe inspiring as saving human lives out of a love of humanity and as trifling as slowing the issuance of a report out of spite or anger.\" For example, of the more than 1,000 whistleblower complaints that are filed each year with the Pentagon's Inspector General, about 97 percent are not substantiated. It is believed throughout the professional world that an individual is bound to secrecy within their work sector. Discussions of whistleblowing and employee loyalty usually assume that the concept of loyalty is irrelevant to the issue or, more commonly, that whistleblowing involves a moral choice that pits the loyalty that an employee owes an employer against the employee's responsibility to serve the public interest. Robert A. Larmer describes the standard view of whistleblowing in the Journal of Business Ethics by explaining that an employee possesses prima facie (based on the first impression; accepted as correct until proved otherwise) duties of loyalty and confidentiality to their employers and that whistleblowing cannot be justified except on the basis of a higher duty to the public good. It is important to recognize that in any relationship which demands loyalty the relationship works both ways and involves mutual enrichment.\n\nThe ethics of Edward Snowden's actions have been widely discussed and debated in news media and academia worldwide. Edward Snowden released classified intelligence to the American people in an attempt to allow Americans to see the inner workings of the government. A person is diligently tasked with the conundrum of choosing to be loyal to the company or to blow the whistle on the company's wrongdoing. Discussions on whistleblowing generally revolve around three topics: attempts to define whistleblowing more precisely, debates about whether and when whistleblowing is permissible, and debates about whether and when one has an obligation to blow the whistle.\n\nMany whistleblowers have stated that they were motivated to take action to put an end to unethical practices, after witnessing injustices in their businesses or organizations. A 2009 study found that whistleblowers are often motivated to take action when they notice a sharp decline in ethical practices, as opposed to a gradual worsening. There are generally two metrics by which whistleblowers determine if a practice is unethical. The first metric involves a violation of the organization's bylaws or written ethical policies. These violations allow individuals to concretize and rationalize blowing the whistle. On the other hand, \"value-driven\" whistleblowers are influenced by their personal codes of ethics. In these cases, whistleblowers have been criticized for being driven by personal biases.\n\nIn addition to ethics, social and organizational pressure are a motivating forces. A 2012 study identified that individuals are more likely to blow the whistle when several others know about the wrongdoing, because they would otherwise fear consequences for keeping silent. In cases when one person is causing an injustice, the individual who notices the injustice may file a formal report, rather than confronting the wrongdoer, because confrontation would be more emotionally and psychologically stressful. Furthermore, individuals may be motivated to report unethical behavior when they believe their organizations will support them. Professionals in management roles may feel responsibility to blow the whistle in order to uphold the values and rules of their organizations.\n\nLegal protection for whistleblowing varies from country to country and may depend on the country of the original activity, where and how secrets were revealed, and how they eventually became published or publicized. Over a dozen countries have now adopted comprehensive whistleblower protection laws that create mechanisms for reporting wrongdoing and provide legal protections to whistleblowers. Over 50 countries have adopted more limited protections as part of their anti-corruption, freedom of information, or employment laws. \"For purposes of the English Wikipedia, this section emphasizes the English-speaking world and covers other regimes only insofar as they represent exceptionally greater or lesser protections.\"\n\nThere are laws in a number of states. The former NSW Police Commissioner Tony Lauer summed up official government and police attitudes as: \"Nobody in Australia much likes whistleblowers, particularly in an organization like the police or the government.\"\n\nWhistleblowers Australia is an association for those who have exposed corruption or any form of malpractice, especially if they were then hindered or abused.\n\nThe Office of the Public Sector Integrity Commissioner of Canada (PSIC) provides a safe and confidential mechanism enabling public servants and the general public to disclose wrongdoings committed in the public sector. It also protects from reprisal public servants who have disclosed wrongdoing and those who have cooperated in investigations. The Office's goal is to enhance public confidence in Canada's federal public institutions and in the integrity of public servants.\n\nMandated by the Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act (The Act), PSIC is a permanent and independent Agent of Parliament. The Act, which came into force on April 15, 2007, applies to most of the federal public sector, approximately 400,000 public servants. This includes government departments and agencies, parent Crown corporations, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and other federal public sector bodies.\n\nNot all disclosures lead to an investigation as the Act sets out the jurisdiction of the Commissioner and gives the option not to investigate under certain circumstances. On the other hand, if PSIC conducts an investigation and finds no wrongdoing was committed, the Commissioner must report his findings to the discloser and to the organization's chief executive. Also, reports of founded wrongdoing are presented before the House of Commons and the Senate in accordance with The Act. As of June 2014, a total of 9 reports have been tabled in Parliament.\n\nThe Act also established the Public Servants Disclosure Protection Tribunal (PSDPT) to protect public servants by hearing reprisal complaints referred by the Public Sector Integrity Commissioner. The Tribunal can grant remedies in favour of complainants and order disciplinary action against persons who take reprisals.\n\nPSIC's current Commissioner is Mr. Mario Dion. Previously, he has served in various senior roles in the public service, including as Associate Deputy Minister of Justice, Executive Director and Deputy Head of the Office of Indian Residential Schools Resolution of Canada, and as Chair of the National Parole Board.\n\nThe European Parliament approved a \"Whistleblower Protection Directive\" containing broad free speech protections for whistleblowers in both the public and the private sectors, including for journalists, in all member states of the European Union. The Directive prohibits direct or indirect retaliation against employees, current and former, in the public sector and the private sector. The Directive's protections apply to employees, to volunteers, and to those who assist them, including to civil society organizations and to journalists who report on their evidence. It provides equal rights for whistleblowers in the national security sector who challenge denial or removal of their security clearances. Also, whistleblowers are protected from criminal prosecution and corporate lawsuits for damages resulting from their whistleblowing, and provides for psychological support for dealing with harassment stress.\n\nGood government observers have hailed the EU directive as setting \"the global standard for best practice rights protecting freedom of speech where it counts the most—challenging abuses of power that betray the public trust,\" according to the U.S.-based Government Accountability Project. They have noted, however, that ambiguities remain in the Directive regarding application in some areas, such as \"duty speech,\" that is, when employees report the same information as part of a job assignment, for example, to a supervisor, instead of whistleblowing as formal dissent. In fact, duty speech is how the overwhelming majority of whistleblowing information gets communicated, and where the free flow of information is needed for proper functioning of organizations. However it is in response to such \"duty speech\" employee communication that the vast majority of retaliation against employees occurs. These observers have noted that the Directive must be understood as applying to protection against retaliation for such duty speech because without such an understanding the Directive will \"miss the iceberg of what’s needed.”\n\nIn Jamaica, the Protected Disclosures Act, 2011 received assent in March 2011. It creates a comprehensive system for the protection of whistleblowers in the public and private sector. It is based on the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998.\n\nThe Government of India has been considering adopting a whistleblower protection law for several years. In 2003, the Law Commission of India recommended the adoption of the Public Interest Disclosure (Protection of Informers) Act, 2002. In August 2010, the Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Persons Making the Disclosures Bill, 2010 was introduced into the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India. The Bill was approved by the cabinet in June, 2011. The Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Persons Making the Disclosures Bill, 2010 was renamed as The Whistleblowers' Protection Bill, 2011 by the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice. The Whistleblowers' Protection Bill, 2011 was passed by the Lok Sabha on 28 December 2011. and by the Rajyasabha on 21 February 2014. The Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2011 has received the Presidential assent on May 9, 2014 and the same has been subsequently published in the official gazette of the Government of India on May 9, 2014 by the Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India.\n\nThe government of Ireland committed to adopting a comprehensive whistleblower protection law in January 2012. The bill reportedly covers both the public and private sectors.\n\nThe Netherlands has measures in place to mitigate the risks of whistleblowing: the whistleblower advice centre (Adviespunt Klokkenluiders) offers advice to whistleblowers, and the Parliament recently passed a proposal to establish a so-called house for whistleblowers, to protect them from the severe negative consequences that they might endure (Kamerstuk, 2013). Dutch media organizations also provide whistleblower support; on 9 September 2013 a number of major Dutch media outlets supported the launch of Publeaks, which provides a secure website for people to leak documents to the media. Publeaks is designed to protect whistleblowers. It operates on the GlobaLeaks software developed by the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights, which supports whistleblower-oriented technologies internationally.\n\nThe Swiss Council of States agreed on a draft amendment of the Swiss Code of Obligations in September 2014. The draft introduces articles 321a to 321a, 328(3), 336(2)(d). An amendment of article 362(1) adds articles 321a to 321a to the list of provisions that may not be overruled by labour and bargaining agreements.\nArticle 321a introduces an obligation on employees to report irregularities to their employer before reporting to an authority. An employee will, however, not breach his duty of good faith if he reports an irregularity to an authority and\nArticle 321a provides that an employee may exceptionally directly report to an authority. Exceptions apply in cases\nThe draft does not improve on protection against dismissal for employees who report irregularities to their employer. The amendment does not provide for employees anonymously filing their observations of irregularities.\n\nWhistleblowing in the United Kingdom is subject to the Public Interest Disclosure Act (PIDA) 1998.\n\nThe Freedom to Speak Up Review set out 20 principles to bring about improvements to help whistleblowers in the NHS, including:\n\nMonitor produced a whistleblowing policy in November 2015 that all NHS organizations in England are obliged to follow. It explicitly says that anyone bullying or acting against a whistleblower could be potentially liable to disciplinary action.\n\nWhistleblowing tradition in the United States started with Benjamin Franklin leaking a few letters Hutchinson had written to Thomas Whately, resulting in the American Revolution.\n\nTo be considered a whistleblower in the United States, most federal whistleblower statutes require that federal employees have reason to believe their employer violated some law, rule, or regulation; testify or commence a legal proceeding on the legally protected matter; or refuse to violate the law.\n\nIn cases where whistleblowing on a specified topic is protected by statute, U.S. courts have generally held that such whistleblowers are protected from retaliation. However, a closely divided U.S. Supreme Court decision, \"Garcetti v. Ceballos\" (2006) held that the First Amendment free speech guarantees for government employees do not protect disclosures made within the scope of the employees' duties.\n\nIn the United States, legal protections vary according to the subject matter of the whistleblowing, and sometimes the state where the case arises. In passing the 2002 Sarbanes–Oxley Act, the Senate Judiciary Committee found that whistleblower protections were dependent on the \"patchwork and vagaries\" of varying state statutes. Still, a wide variety of federal and state laws protect employees who call attention to violations, help with enforcement proceedings, or refuse to obey unlawful directions. While this patchwork approach has often been criticized, it also responsible for the United States having more dedicated whistleblowing laws than any other country.\n\nThe first US law adopted specifically to protect whistleblowers was the 1863 United States False Claims Act (revised in 1986), which tried to combat fraud by suppliers of the United States government during the American Civil War. The Act encourages whistleblowers by promising them a percentage of the money recovered by the government and by protecting them from employment retaliation.\n\nAnother US law that specifically protects whistleblowers is the Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912. It guaranteed the right of federal employees to furnish information to the United States Congress. The first US environmental law to include an employee protection was the Clean Water Act of 1972. Similar protections were included in subsequent federal environmental laws, including the Safe Drinking Water Act (1974), Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (1976), Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (through 1978 amendment to protect nuclear whistleblowers), Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA, or the Superfund Law) (1980), and the Clean Air Act (1990). Similar employee protections enforced through OSHA are included in the Surface Transportation Assistance Act (1982) to protect truck drivers, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act (PSIA) of 2002, the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (\"AIR 21\"), and the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, enacted on July 30, 2002 (for corporate fraud whistleblowers).\n\nInvestigation of retaliation against whistleblowers under 20 federal statutes falls under the jurisdiction of the Office of the Whistleblower Protection Program of the United States Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). New whistleblower statutes enacted by Congress, which are to be enforced by the Secretary of Labor, are generally delegated by a Secretary's Order to OSHA's Office of the Whistleblower Protection Program (OWPP).\n\nThe patchwork of laws means that victims of retaliation need to be aware of the laws at issue to determine the deadlines and means for making proper complaints. Some deadlines are as short as 10 days (Arizona State Employees have 10 days to file a \"Prohibited Personnel Practice\" Complaint before the Arizona State Personnel Board), while others are up to 300 days.\n\nThose who report a false claim against the federal government, and suffer adverse employment actions as a result, may have up to six years (depending on state law) to file a civil suit for remedies under the US False Claims Act (FCA). Under a \"qui tam\" provision, the \"original source\" for the report may be entitled to a percentage of what the government recovers from the offenders. However, the \"original source\" must also be the first to file a federal civil complaint for recovery of the federal funds fraudulently obtained, and must avoid publicizing the claim of fraud until the US Justice Department decides whether to prosecute the claim itself. Such \"qui tam\" lawsuits must be filed under seal, using special procedures to keep the claim from becoming public until the federal government makes its decision on direct prosecution.\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 has been used to prosecute whistleblowers in the United States including Edward Snowden and Chelsea Manning. In 2013, Manning was convicted of violating the Espionage Act and sentenced to 35 years in prison for leaking sensitive military documents to WikiLeaks. The same year, Snowden was charged with violating the Espionage Act for releasing confidential documents belonging to the NSA.\n\nSection 922 of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) in the United States incentivizes and protects whistleblowers. By Dodd-Frank, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) financially rewards whistleblowers for providing original information about violations of federal securities laws that results in sanctions of at least $1M. Additionally, Dodd-Frank offers job security to whistleblowers by illegalizing termination or discrimination due to whistleblowing. The whistleblower provision has proven successful; after the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the SEC charged KBR (company) and BlueLinx Holdings Inc. (company) with violating the whistleblower protection Rule 21F-17 by having employees sign confidentiality agreements that threatened repercussions for discussing internal matters with outside parties. As of his recent election, President Donald Trump has announced plans to dismantle Dodd-Frank, which may negatively impact whistleblower protection in the United States.\n\nThe federally recognized National Whistleblower Appreciation Day is observed annually on July 30, on the anniversary of the country's original 1778 whistleblower protection law.\n\nThere are comprehensive laws in New Zealand and South Africa. A number of other countries have recently adopted comprehensive whistleblower laws including Ghana, South Korea, and Uganda. They are also being considered in Kenya and Rwanda. The European Court of Human Rights ruled in 2008 that whistleblowing was protected as freedom of expression. And in February 2017, Nigeria also set up the whistleblowing policy against corruption and other ills in the country.\n\nMany NGOs advocate for stronger and more comprehensive legal rights and protections for whistleblowers. Among them are the Government Accountability Project (GAP), Blueprint for Free Speech, Public Concern at Work (PCaW) and the Open Democracy Advice Centre\n\nWhistleblowers that may be at risk of those they are exposing are now using encryption methods and anonymous content sharing software to protect their identity. Tor, a highly accessible anonymity network, is one that is frequently used by whistleblowers around the world. Tor has undergone a number of large security updates to protect the identities of potential whistleblowers who may wish to anonymously leak information.\n\nRecently specialized whistleblowing software like SecureDrop and GlobaLeaks has been built on top of the Tor technology in order to incentivize and simplify its adoption for secure whistleblowing.\n\nIn 2016, the rock band Thrice released a song titled \"Whistleblower\" off of the album \"To Be Everywhere Is to Be Nowhere\". The song is written from the perspective of Snowden.\n\nIn July 2018, CBS will debut a new reality television show entitled \"Whistleblower\", hosted by lawyer, former judge and police officer Alex Ferrer which will cover qui tam suits under the False Claims Act against companies that have allegedly defrauded the federal government. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24034930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24034930", "title": "White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics", "text": "White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics\n\nThe White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics\nis a multi-agency working group within the Department of Education charged with strengthening the nation's capacity to provide high quality education while increasing opportunities for Hispanic American participation in federal education programs. In addition, the Initiative serves as a resource for information related to closing the educational achievement gap for Hispanic Americans. Finally, the Initiative provides staffing to support and coordinate the mission of a President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics.\n\nDespite its title, the Initiative is created by executive order as a fully staffed and funded entity within the United States Department of Education. Its purpose is to provide support for a Presidential Advisory Commission, for organizational purposes also located within the Education Department, which in turn provides advice and guidance to the Secretary of Education and, through him, to the President.\n\nThe size of the Commission changes with each new Administration, numbering anywhere between fifteen and twenty-five members, and is usually led by two co-chairs. Commissioners are chosen from a wide variety of backgrounds such as educational/academic, sports figures, business, and entertainment and other celebrities. Membership is honorary and the Commissioners serve without pay. All represent either highly visible Hispanic Americans distinguished in their field or other individuals noted for their commitment to Hispanic matters. In order to fulfill its mission of providing guidance, the Commission issues reports- at regular or irregular intervals depending on its individual directive.\n\nAs previously noted, the Initiative is a fully staffed office within the Education Department. It is composed of a mix of appointed and civil service officials and led by an Executive Director. The Director is named either by the President or the Secretary of Education. The Initiative's mission ends with the Administration that created it but the agency does not completely shut down. As a regularly staffed unit, the Initiative continues into a new Administration with a \"skeleton crew\" on the expectation that a new executive order will be issued or until such time as the staff is reassigned by the Secretary.\n\nThe Commission and Initiative were initially created during the George H.W. Bush Administration as a part of its overall \"America 2000 Education Strategy.\" For at least two years, Hispanic organizations and individuals- Raul Yzaguirre of the National Council of La Raza prominent among them- had been lobbying the government for a federal agency that would oversee educational outreach for Hispanic Americans and help to improve their academic performance. After months of negotiation and planning, President Bush signed Executive Order 12729 on September 24, 1990, establishing the first Commission as well as the supporting Initiative. The goal of the Commission as outlined in EO 12729 was to \"provide advice to the Secretary of Education on the progress of Hispanic Americans toward achievement of national education goals and on such other aspects of the educational status of Hispanic Americans as it consider[ed] appropriate.\" To that end, the Commission was expected to urge upon the Secretary a specific set of criteria:\n\n\nHowever, the new endeavor ran almost immediately into roadblocks that would delay its implementation for a year.\n\nWithin a few days, the first Initiative director, Gilbert Roman, resigned for unknown reasons. The forced resignation of Secretary of Education Lauro Cavazos in early December put the Initiative and Commission into semi-hibernation. Finally, after increasing criticism, the first group of 17 Commission members were sworn-in in September, 1991. The Initiative also received a full staff and new Executive Director, John Florez, formerly the deputy assistant secretary for employment at the Department of Labor. At Cavazos' request, Florez had been involved in the studies that led to the creation of the Initiative.\n\nNotable figures among the Commission included Yzaguirre, Diana Natalicio (the first female president of the University of Texas at El Paso), businessman Peter H. Coors, and golfer Nancy Lopez.\n\nThe Commission issued its sole report on October 12, 1992, entitled \"A Progress Report to the Secretary of Education from the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans\".\n\nThe Commission was re-established by President Bill Clinton on February 18, 1994 by Executive Order 12900. Like its predecessor, the new Commission was to advise the President (albeit through the Secretary of Education). Its goals were modified slightly from that of the previous Administration. The Commission was oriented to\n\n\nHowever, once again other political issues would push implementation of the Commission's mission onto the backburner for nearly a year. Finally, on February 1, 1995, 24 members of the Commission were sworn-in by Vice President Al Gore. Among the more notable figures on the Commission were academicians Guillermo Linares and Eduardo J. Padrón, author/producer John Phillip Santos, businesspersons Linda G. Alvarado and Martin J. Koldyke, and Yzaguirre, who served as its chairman.\n\nWithin a year, the Commission would become embroiled in further controversy when Yzaguirre, its chairman, accused it of being ineffective due to \"bureaucratic morass and partisan politics\" and criticized the Initiative's staff for inadequate support. Yzaguirre was especially incensed that its first report was nearly a year overdue. In response, the Clinton Administration thanked Yzaguirre for his service and announced that the long-awaited report was due to be completed in June. Nevertheless, it was not until September that the Commission issued \"Our Nation on the Fault Line: Hispanic American Education\".\n\nA new Executive Director, Sarita Brown, was named in 1997. Subsequent to her appointment, Brown was credited with revitalizing the Initiative's mission as well as placing renewed focus on funding for Hispanic education. On September 25, 2000, the Commission- now chaired by Linares- released its second report entitled \"Creating the Will: Hispanics Achieving Educational Excellence\".\n\nGeorge W. Bush established his President's Advisory Commission on October 12, 2001 with Executive Order 13230. The Commission's mandate was updated to dispense advice and issue reports in order to\n\n\nThe Commission comprised 20 members and met for their first full meeting in February, 2002. Among its more notable members were academician Alexander Gonzalez, judge Micaela Alvarez, businessmen Charles P. Garcia and Frank Hanna III- the latter of whom served as one of the two co-chairs- astronaut Fernando Caldeiro, teacher Jaime Escalante, and singer/songwriter Jon Secada. Additionally, US Treasurer Rosario Marin, HUD Secretary Mel Martinez, and SBA Administrator Hector Barreto sat on the Commission as \"ex offico\" members or designees.\n\nDuring this Administration, the Commission issued two reports. The first, entitled \"The Road to a College Diploma: The Complex Reality of Raising Educational Achievement for Hispanics in the United States\", was released on September 30, 2002 and contained initial findings on the state of Hispanic education in the U. S. The second report, \"From Risk to Opportunity: Fulfilling the Educational Needs of Hispanic Americans in the 21st Century\" and released on March 31, 2003, offered six recommendations for increasing the educational achievement of Hispanics.\n\nFrom June 16 to June 17, 2005, the Initiative hosted a conference entitled \"Pathways to Hispanic Family Learning\". Presided over by Education Secretary Margaret Spellings and U.S. Treasurer Anna Escobedo Cabral, the meeting paved the way for a new program, the \"Partnership for Hispanic Family Learning\", \"a national network of public and private organizations that provide Hispanic families with the knowledge and tools needed to help them prepare their children for academic success.\" Information and resources were then dispensed through a series of regional conferences.\n\nIn 2007, the Initiative convened a conference with the American Competitiveness Initiative (ACI), \"The American Competitiveness Initiative: Challenges and Opportunities for Hispanic Serving Institutions\". As a result of the meeting, a combined WHI-ACI working-group was formed to address the needs, strengths, and capabilities of Hispanic-serving institutions of higher learning.\n\nIn July, 2009, the Barack Obama Administration initiated a series of speaking events and meetings in order to gather input on the educational needs of the Hispanic community. A new executive order was planned for later in the year once the accumulated data could be assessed. The President set a new goal for the country: that by 2020, America would once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. . On October 19, 2010, President Obama signed Executive Order 13555 renewing the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanic with the mission to help restore the United States to its role as the global leader in education and to strengthen the Nation by expanding educational opportunities and improving educational outcomes for Hispanics of all ages and by helping to ensure that all Hispanics receive a complete and competitive education that prepares them for college, a career, and productive and satisfying lives. In the executive order, the President declared, \"Our country was built on and continues to thrive on its diversity, and there is no doubt that the future of the United States is inextricably linked to the future of the Hispanic community.\" The President appointed a new commission as well, chaired by Eduardo Padrón, and including notable members such as Shakira. It should be noted however, that according to transcripts, Shakira never attended the meetings and had Maria Mercedes Lievano sit on her behalf. In September, 2011, the White House released a report on the education of Latinos, Winning the Future: Improving Education for the Latino Community.\n\nIn October 2013, the Initiative also launched a monthly webinar series. The webinars’ purpose is to connect leaders on a national and local scale, as well as highlight Bright Spots- programs, leaders, schools, organizations, partnerships, or models that are helping close the Hispanic achievement gap throughout the nation. The webinars are a meeting place where leaders discuss programs and initiatives, relevant policy issues, and evidence-based practices that benefit the Hispanic community. The Initiative has held webinars on:\n• Early Learning (October)\n• Immigrant Integration (November)\n• Family Engagement (December)\n• Student Financial Assistance (January)\n• GED Test (February)\n• English Learners (March)\n• New High School Equivalency Assessments – HiSET and TASC (April)\n• Improving Educational Outcomes for Hispanic Males (April)\n• Summer Melt (May)\n• Hispanic Families and Special Education (June)\n• Educational Technology (July)\n• Hispanic Teacher Recruitment (August)\n• College- and Career-Ready Standards (September)\n\nIn December 2013, Executive Director Alejandra Ceja announced the release of the Initiative's Second Term Action Plan for the fiscal years 2013-2016. The plan establishes \"a framework that involves local, state and national leaders, public and private sector stakeholders, educators, families, and students in support of fostering educational excellence for the Latino community. In tandem with the Administration’s efforts, the Initiative will work to amplify the benefits of a quality early learning, highlight robust and leading examples of reform and rigor in our K-12 school systems, and promote practices and institutions of higher education graduating more Latinos ready and prepared to enter the competitive workforce (Ceja).\"\n\nIn May 2014 the Initiative released ¡Gradúate! A Financial Aid Guide to Success to help Hispanic students and their families navigate through the college application process, provide tips on filling out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, and supply key financial aid resources available to better support Hispanics, including Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and non U.S. citizen students. Since its release the guide has been highlighted by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan.\n\nThe Initiative has also advanced President Obama's My Brother's Keeper Initiative to address persistent opportunity gaps faced by boys and young men of color, including Hispanics, and ensure that all young people can reach their full potential.\n\nThe year 2015 will mark 25 years since the establishment of the Initiative.To commemorate it, the Initiative has launched a 25th anniversary year of action: Fulfilling America's Future to highlight educational gains and trends since its creation, as well as look to the future and make key policy recommendations for leadership across sectors. As a part of its 25th anniversary celebration, the Initiative will release a blueprint that will inform educational priorities for the Hispanic community, and serve as a guide for leaders working to increase opportunity and improve the outcomes of Hispanics.\nThe current executive director of the White House Initiative is Alejandra Ceja.\n\n"}
{"id": "32307314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32307314", "title": "Zachary Lazar", "text": "Zachary Lazar\n\nZachary Lazar (born 1968) is an American novelist. Lazar was born in Phoenix, Arizona. He earned an A.B. degree in Comparative Literature from Brown University (1990) and M.F.A from the University of Iowa Iowa Writer's Workshop (1993). In 2015, he was the third recipient of the John Updike Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, \"given biennially to a writer in mid-career whose work has demonstrated consistent excellence.\"\n\nLazar published his first novel, \"Aaron, Approximately,\" in 1998. His second novel, \"Sway,\" was a finalist for the Discover Great New Writers Award at Barnes & Noble and was an Editor's Choice at the New York Times Book Review. Appropriating such real-life iconic figures as the early Rolling Stones, Charles Manson acolyte Bobby Beausoleil, and the avant-garde filmmaker Kenneth Anger, \"Sway\" is a novelistic exploration of the rise and fall of the Sixties counterculture. It was selected as a best book of 2008 by the Los Angeles Times, Publishers Weekly, Newsday, Rolling Stone, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and other publications. In 2009, Lazar published the memoir \"Evening's Empire: The Story of My Father's Murder.\" It was selected as a Best Book of 2009 by the Chicago Tribune. Lazar's third novel, \"I Pity the Poor Immigrant,\" tells the story of a fictional American journalist whose investigation into the killing of an Israeli poet leads her into a millennia-old history of violence that encompasses the American and Israeli mafias, the biblical figure of King David, and the Jewish gangster Meyer Lansky. The book was an Editor's Choice at the New York Times Book Review as well as one of that publications's 100 Notable Books of 2014.\n\nLazar's articles and reviews have appeared in the New York Times Magazine, the Los Angeles Times, Newsday, BOMB magazine, and elsewhere. In 2011, he joined the faculty of Tulane University.\n\n\n\n"}
