{"id": "15739959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15739959", "title": "Abdi-Milkutti", "text": "Abdi-Milkutti\n\nAbdi-Milkutti (=Abdi-milki) was a Sidonian king (reigned ca. 680-677 BC) who rose up against Assyrian rule. He had formed an alliance with Sanduarri, king of Kundi and Sizu, a prince of the Lebanon, probably during the time of the civil war waged between Esarhaddon and two of his brothers who disputed his succession after they had murdered his father. The two kings had sworn to each other by the names of the great gods and revolted. \nAs soon as this struggle was over, in response to the rebellion, Esarhaddon laid siege to Sidon, which after three years of siege, in 677 BC, was finally captured, destroyed and rebuilt as Kar-Ashur-aha-iddina, the Harbour of Esarhaddon. The Sidonian king was decapitated. Sanduarri was also captured and decapitated and the heads of the two kings were hung around the necks of their nobles who were paraded through the streets of Nineveh. Part of the treasure taken from Sidon went to the loyal king of the rival city Tyre.\n\nIn his annals the Assyrian king states that he conquered Sidon and “tore up and cast into the sea its walls and its foundations.” This city was situated on a promontory jutting into the sea. The Sidonian king Abdi-Milkutti tried to escape by boat, but was “pulled out of the sea like a fish“ by the Assyrian king who cut off his head. Esarhaddon sent off to Assyria a rich treasure, including: “gold, silver, precious stones, elephant hides, ivory, maple and boxwood, garments of brightly colored wool and linen.” He also took away the king’s wife, his children, and his courtiers: “His people from far and near, which were countless.”\n\nThe defeated and executed king of Sidon was depicted on the Sam'al Victory stele of Esarhaddon from Zenjirli. The stele shows Abdi-Milkutti, dressed in his native costume and held with a coiled leash. Although he is shown standing with his hands raised, he reaches only to about Esarhaddon's knee. Next to him is shown a kneeling Egyptian prince.\n"}
{"id": "11685983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11685983", "title": "Abselema of Edessa", "text": "Abselema of Edessa\n\nAbselema of Edessa is recorded as having been a disciple of Saint Addai and a bishop of Edessa, who lived in 2-d century. His feast day is celebrated on October 19.\n\nList of early Christian saints\n"}
{"id": "36478339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36478339", "title": "Afonso of Portugal, Lord of Leiria", "text": "Afonso of Portugal, Lord of Leiria\n\nAfonso of Portugal (c. 1288 – Lisbon, c. 1300; ; or \"Alphonse\") was a Portuguese noble, son of Afonso of Portugal, Lord of Portalegre and his wife Violante Manuel. He was granted the title of Lord of Leiria. Afonso of Portugal died in 1300 when he was about twelve years of age without having married and without leaving any offspring.\n\n"}
{"id": "1132799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132799", "title": "Anti-Monitor", "text": "Anti-Monitor\n\nThe Anti-Monitor is a character, a comic book supervillain and the antagonist of the 1985 DC Comics miniseries \"Crisis on Infinite Earths.\"\n\nIn 2009, Anti-Monitor was ranked as IGN's 49th greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor first appeared in \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" #2 (although he remained in shadow until \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" #5) and was created by Marv Wolfman, George Pérez, and Jerry Ordway. He was destroyed in \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" #12 only to return after a long absence in \"Green Lantern: Sinestro Corps Special\" #1 (Aug. 2007).\n\nThe Anti-Monitor is an enemy not only of the Green Lantern Corps, but also of the entire Multiverse.\n\nDuring the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", it was revealed of the existence of all parallel universes in the Multiverse; several villains were sent back in time to stop him, but were defeated by Krona and the other Oans. In a final revision, it was established that it increased entropy in the universe, shortening its existence by a billion years (see heat death). In any event, two beings were created, one on the moon of Oa and the other on the moon of Qward. On the moon of Oa, the being known as the Monitor was instantly aware of his counterpart, the Anti-Monitor (although his official name is the Monitor in his own universe, and he is often addressed as such, the name Anti-Monitor is used to distinguish him from his heroic positive matter counterpart). By this time the Anti-Monitor had quickly conquered Qward, as well as the rest of the Antimatter universe. In searching for other places to conquer, he also became aware of his counterpart. These two beings battled for a million years, unleashing great powers against each other, but to no avail. At the end of their stalemate, they simultaneously attacked one another, rendering both inert for nine billion years.\n\nIn \"Final Crisis\", it was revealed that, in the wake of the birth of the original Multiverse, an unfathomable being of limitless imagination, the original Monitor, or \"Overmonitor\", became aware of the life germinating in the budding Multiverse, occupying the void space in which he resided and which he encompassed. Curious about it and wanting to interact with and know better the lesser life-forms birthed by the Multiverse, he fashioned a probe, a \"smaller Monitor\". Unprepared to deal with the complexity of life and the passing of time, the probe-Monitor was instantly split into two symmetrical, opposite beings upon coming into contact with the Multiverse itself: the Monitor, embodying the positive matter and \"goodness\", and the Anti-Monitor, embodying anti-matter and \"evil\".\n\nThe Anti-Monitor, who appears monstrous, barely resembles the Monitor, who bears a physically near-human appearance. The Anti-Monitor has empty, sometimes luminous eye sockets, and a wide, wrinkled mouth, often mistaken for a mass of teeth. When his armor is destroyed by Supergirl, his form appears not dissimilar to that of the Monitor, but unstable, and surrounded by a coruscating aura of radiant energy—his life force, leaking out like water from a failing vessel, explaining the need for the armor. The Anti-Monitor himself refers to the armor as his \"Life Shell\". When the Manhunters re-build his armor, it is revealed his body is little more than a churning mass of energy. Much later, when his helmet is disintegrated by Firestorm, the Anti-Monitor's head is revealed to be featureless except for his eyes and mouth.\n\nIn more modern times, the being known as Pariah performed an experiment similar to the one Krona attempted long ago on a parallel Earth (this was changed later to an alternate world in the Post-\"Crisis\" single universe). This experiment resulted in the reawakening of both the Monitor and the Anti-Monitor and the destruction of Pariah's Earth and his universe. The Anti-Monitor rebuilt his army, taking over Qward and using the Thunderers as his own private army, as well as creating the Shadow Demons from the elite of the Thunderers.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor then released a massive antimatter wave, absorbing the energies of the destroyed positive matter universes and growing stronger even as his counterpart grew weaker, and employed the second Psycho-Pirate, using his emotion control powers to terrorize the populations of the planets he sought to conquer and destroy. The Monitor, along with his aide Harbinger, gathered a group of heroes and villains from various alternate universes in order to combat the threat of the Anti-Monitor. One of Harbinger's duplicates was taken control of by the Anti-Monitor and apparently killed the Monitor, but the Monitor was able to use his death to create a pocket universe to contain the remaining realities from the Anti-Monitor's attack.\n\nAfter defeats by various heroes, including the Flash (Barry Allen) and Supergirl sacrificing themselves to destroy an antimatter cannon and to save Superman respectively, the Anti-Monitor absorbed the entirety of the antimatter universe and traveled to the beginning of time, intending to stop the formation of the positive matter Multiverse and to create a Multiverse where antimatter prevailed. When the heroes followed him there, he began to drain the power from most of them.\n\nHowever, the actions of the Spectre, empowered by the sorcerers of the surviving Earths, brought the Anti-Monitor to a stalemate. The villains of said Earths, sent to stop Krona from viewing the origins of the universe, failed due to squabbling, allowing Krona to see the hands of the Anti-Monitor and the Spectre struggling for domination, which collapsed the current Multiverse.\n\nFrom the ashes rose a new, singular universe. While various persons adjusted to the newly singular Earth (including those whose worlds and histories had been destroyed with the loss of the Multiverse), the Anti-Monitor, enraged, drew this new Earth into the antimatter universe, intending to destroy this last bastion of positive matter once and for all. What followed was the Shadow Demon War, wherein many heroes and villains lost their lives against the Anti-Monitor's forces. Finally, the combined efforts of various superheroes and villains (most notably Doctor Light, the heroic Alexander Luthor, Jr. of Earth-Three, Darkseid, Superboy of Earth Prime, and Kal-L, the Superman of Earth-Two) were able to weaken the Anti-Monitor enough for Kal-L to deliver the final blow, destroying the Anti-Monitor by punching him into a star. The star went nova and caused antimatter waves to erupt, threatening to destroy the entire antimatter universe. Kal-L and Superboy-Prime were willing to resign themselves to their final fates, when Alexander Luthor, using his power to open dimensions, revealed that he had created a \"paradise dimension\", and he used it to prevent the Lois Lane Kent of Earth-Two from being erased from existence when the Post-\"Crisis\" universe was formed, as he foresaw how events would unfold and refused to allow Superman to have to deal with such a terrible loss. Using his own body as a portal, Alexander Luthor, Kal-L, and Superboy-Prime went into the \"paradise dimension\" alongside Lois.\n\nAmong the other beings who died because of his actions were the entire Crime Syndicate of America; Kid Psycho; Nighthawk; the Losers; Flower of Easy Company; Starman; the Immortal Man; the Dove; Kole; Clayface II; the Bug-Eyed Bandit; the Angle Man; Prince Ra-Man; Sunburst; Lori Lemaris; Aquagirl; Earth-2's Green Arrow, Huntress and Robin, and Alexander Luthor, Sr. of Earth-Three just to name a few.\n\nThe Superman (and Lois Lane) of Earth-Two, Superboy of Earth-Prime, and Alexander Luthor, Jr. of Earth-Three, from their home in the hidden pocket universe, were revealed to be observing the events of the newly-formed universe as well as the actions of its heroes. Upon observing the events leading up to \"Infinite Crisis\", the heroes returned to the universe in an attempt to restore Earth-Two's existence, at the expense of Earth-One.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor's remains were then used by Alexander Luthor as part of a tuning fork, similar to the ones used during the first Crisis. This construct then created the vibrational frequency that Earth-Two was on prior to its non-existence, which in turn recreated Earth-Two with no visible expense to Earth-One, save the movement of characters who originated on Earth-Two to the recreated Earth-Two. Alexander Luthor then recreated the other Earths with his tuning fork, with their respective heroes forcibly migrating to said Earths. Superboy-Prime (followed soon by Bart Allen) then returned from the Speed Force wearing what appeared to be select elements of the Anti-Monitor's armor, using it as a yellow sunlight collector. Ultimately, the tower was destroyed when Kon-El, the modern Superboy, and Superboy-Prime crashed into it while fighting each other, forcing all of the Earths to merge into a new Earth once again. Kon-El died in the arms of Wonder Girl as Superboy-Prime fled.\n\nDespite his extremely limited exposure (he only appeared in the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" miniseries, a single issue of \"Wonder Woman\", and \"Flash\" (vol. 2) #149–150), the Anti-Monitor was responsible for one of the most profound changes in the entire history of DC Comics, the DC Universe, and all of its parallel universes. The antimatter universe still existed, now with both Qward (said to be the counterpart of Oa) and an alternate Earth populated by counterparts of the positive matter heroes and villains (each taking the opposite role) among its planets.\n\nPerhaps the most notable impact the Anti-Monitor had on the Post-\"Crisis\" universe was the elimination of the Multiverse aspect of the DC Universe. Previously, there existed an infinite number of Earths, each one with a unique history, that could be accessed through various means, the most common being vibrational attunement. During Post-\"Crisis\", with the restart of the universe as one thanks to the machinations of the Anti-Monitor, a simpler, more streamlined DC Universe seemed imminent, with characters acquired from Charlton Comics, Fawcett Comics, and Quality Comics all becoming incorporated into the new DC Universe.\n\nAt the end of DC Comics' 2006 special \"Brave New World\" it is revealed that there are five figures calling themselves \"the Monitors\" watching over the new post-\"Infinite Crisis\" Earth. Four of the figures resemble the original Monitor from \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" and the fifth figure resembles the Anti-Monitor. In the pages of \"Countdown\", it has been revealed that there are fifty-two Monitors, with each of them representing one of the new alternate realities in the new Multiverse, each with a slightly different appearance. A Monitor was shown in \"Supergirl\" recalling Dark Angel, one of his agents. This Monitor was dressed like the Anti-Monitor, but appeared to have no other connection.\nIt was revealed that the Anti-Monitor was reborn following the recreation of the Multiverse and that he had been fueling Sinestro's ideology since the return of Hal Jordan, acting as the Sinestro Corps' \"Guardian of Fear\". His body was rebuilt by the Manhunters, and in addition, he recruited Superboy-Prime, the Cyborg Superman, and Parallax, who was using Kyle Rayner as its host, along with Sinestro as his heralds.\nDuring the war between the Sinestro Corps and the Green Lantern Corps, the Anti-Monitor contacted Cyborg Superman to inquire about the status of New Warworld. The cosmic tyrant stated that he would soon abandon Qward and that he would kill Henshaw for his services, allowing him the peace that had for so long evaded the Cyborg.\n\nWhen the Lost Lanterns made their way to the Antimatter universe to save Hal Jordan and the Ion power, they inadvertently stumbled upon the Anti-Monitor in a basement chamber of his stronghold on Qward. He was seemingly experimenting on or torturing the Ion entity previously inhabiting Kyle Rayner. He proceeded to kill Ke'Haan before the other Lanterns forced him back, taking the Ion entity from the planet and the Antimatter universe. The Anti-Monitor pursued the Lanterns for a short while, long enough for Hal Jordan, Guy Gardner, John Stewart, and the other Lanterns to learn of his return. Having this vital information, they then leave Qward.\n\nShortly after, the Sinestro Corps launched its attack on Earth. The Anti-Monitor traveled to the planet aboard New Warworld, and landed shortly thereafter, along with Sinestro. He was attacked by Sodam Yat and other members of the Green Lantern Corps, but the tyrant killed the two unnamed beings and severely injured the Daxamite Lantern.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor began to siphon the positive matter of New York City to create his antimatter waves. However, he was attacked by the Guardians of the Universe, angry at being impotent during his first war. The Anti-Monitor was able to counter the vicious attack, permanently disfiguring the face of Scar. John Stewart and Guy Gardner brought down New Warworld and the Yellow Central Power Battery, which were detonated next to the Anti-Monitor, and contained by a shield created by hundreds of Green Lanterns to contain the explosion; even this was not enough to kill him. Superboy-Prime, seeing an opportunity to defeat the now-weakened Anti-Monitor, flew through the Anti-Monitor's chest and hurled his shattered body into space.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor's corpse crash landed on the planet Ryut in Sector 666, where a voice (later revealed to be another villain Nekron) acknowledged him and told him to rise. Before he could escape, the Anti-Monitor found himself imprisoned inside a large Black Power Battery. Soon afterwards, the Guardian Scar, corrupted by the Anti-Monitor's energies, dispatched the Green Lanterns Ash and Saarek to locate and recover the Anti-Monitor's body.\n\nGreen Lanterns Ash and Saaraek find the Black Central Power Battery on Ryut and try to escape just before two monstrous hands emerge from below them and drag them into the planet, killing them.\n\nWhen the Black Central Power Battery is later brought to Earth, the Anti-Monitor stirs within, demanding to be let out. He begins draining the white energies of Dove in order to escape. The Anti-Monitor is revived as a Black Lantern independent from Nekron's control. The Anti-Monitor is attacked by the various Lantern Corps just as he is about to pull itself out of the battery. Combining their energies, the various Lantern Corps use Dove as a human bullet shooting the Anti-Monitor through the head and pulling it back into the Battery.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor is eventually resurrected by a White Power Ring and breaks free of the battery, fighting Nekron in revenge for imprisoning him. Nekron then banishes the Anti-Monitor back to the Antimatter universe.\n\nLater, the Anti-Monitor is confronted by the White Lantern Boston Brand. As Brand is forced by the White Ring to \"fight for his life\", damaging the Anti-Monitor's chest plate armor, the Anti-Monitor retaliates by firing a burst of antimatter energy at Brand, who evades the blast. The Anti-Monitor resumes his duties in the Antimatter universe while Brand leaves.\nHe also prevented Deathstorm, the Black Lantern version of Firestorm, in his attempt to destroy the White Lantern Battery and instead commands him to bring the lantern to him as well as an army, at which point Deathstorm brings back the Black Lantern versions of Professor Zoom, Maxwell Lord, Hawk, Jade, Captain Boomerang, Martian Manhunter, Aquaman, Hawkman, Hawkgirl, Deadman and Osiris.\n\nDeathstorm eventually brought the White Lantern Battery to him, and he tried to access the White Lantern power; however, his efforts are prevented by Firestorm who, after engaging in battle with the Anti-Monitor and the Black Lanterns, is able to regain the White Power Battery from the Anti-Monitor. It is also revealed that the \"Entity\" allowed itself to be captured so it could obtain unspecified information from the Anti-Monitor.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor was introduced in The New 52 (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe) in the final page of the \"Forever Evil\" storyline. It is revealed to the reader as the being which destroyed Ultraman's Krypton and Earth 3. As he is seen finishing off Earth 3, the Anti-Monitor declares \"Darkseid shall be mine.\"\n\nThe Anti-Monitor has found the Prime Earth because the ring of Volthoom's energy signature was emitting a traceable pulse. He was also responsible for blinding Martian Manhunter's Earth 3 counterpart by burning out his eyes and destroying one of his arms beyond repair even by the capabilities that Martians possess.\n\nWhen Metron confronted the Anti-Monitor amidst the ruins of Earth 3, it was revealed the Anti-Monitor was the former owner of Metron's traveling device, the Mobius Chair—and that his true name \"is\" Mobius. He intends to make up for an unknown wrong he regrets, and to this end intends to kill Darkseid with the help of the latter's daughter, the half-Amazon known as Grail.\n\nWith the help of Grail, the Anti-Monitor attacks the Justice League on Prime Earth while waiting for Darkseid as he was promised by Grail. It is eventually revealed that Mobius became what he is after attempting to peer into the origins of the anti-matter universe on Qward, similar to how Krona sought the origins of his positive-matter universe. While the White Light of the Life Equation was the origin of the positive universe, it is the Anti-Life Equation that serves as the foundation of the anti-matter universe, and Mobius released it from within the world of Qward, transforming him into the Anti-Monitor. With the Anti-Life Equation in his body, Anti-Monitor has the ability to enslave any living thing to his will. He uses this power to bind the Black Racer to the Flash, enslaving the New God and using him to kill Darkseid.\n\nHaving killed Darkseid, the Anti-Monitor cocooned himself in a shell of energy, and eventually separated himself from the Anti-Life Equation, which was then obtained by Grail. Shortly afterward, he emerged from his shell changed into a more human-looking form, once again Mobius, but still possessing vast power and legions of Shadow Demons. Superwoman and Wonder Woman attempt to subdue him together with their respective lassos; one compelling him to be truthful, the other to obey, but he defies and defeats both. Ultraman, re-empowered through a chunk of kryptonite, engages Mobius, but is swiftly defeated and killed. Next, Mobius is attacked by Lex Luthor, now wielding the Omega Force formerly belonging to Darkseid, as well as an army of Shadow Demons. Even now, fighting Luthor as well as the Justice League and the Crime Syndicate, Mobius has the upper hand until Grail, Darkseid's daughter, appears with Steve Trevor in tow. She has transferred the Anti-Life to him, making him into a new vessel for its power. Now basically a living weapon under Grail’s control, Trevor releases a tremendous blast of power against Mobius, reducing him to a smoldering skeleton.\n\nAnti-Monitor is one of the most formidable foes ever faced by the heroes of the DC Universe. He is directly responsible for more deaths than any other known DC supervillain, having destroyed thousands of universes. He was powerful enough to kill a distracted Supergirl. He consumed thousands of positive-matter universes to increase his power and was able to personally battle scores of the multiverse's strongest heroes simultaneously. During the \"Blackest Night,\" the Anti-Monitor was resurrected as a Black Lantern. However, Nekron was unable to fully control him and thus was only able to subdue the Anti-Monitor to be used as a power source for the Black Lantern Corps' Central Battery.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor was also responsible for the death of Barry Allen, the hero better known as the Flash. After capturing Barry because his ability to traverse the multiverse unaided made him a dangerous variable, the Anti-Monitor created an anti-matter cannon that would destroy the then-five remaining Earths with a concentrated beam much faster than the wave of entropy he had originally unleashed. The cannon was destroyed by the Flash when he escaped and forced the energies of the weapon's power source into itself, causing it to explode and Barry to disintegrate.\n\nIn addition to possessing vast size (varying from about nine feet to hundreds of meters tall), vastly superhuman strength, extraordinary durability (by the end of the \"Crisis\" series he was able to effortlessly withstand blows from Superman and even surviving a blue star going supernova), the ability to project destructive bolts of energy, and greatly augmenting another being's powers (as he did with Psycho-Pirate, whose powers were increased to levels too much for him to handle), the Anti-Monitor also possessed reality-warping abilities, which he displayed by removing Psycho-Pirate's face. The Anti-Monitor also commanded an army of Qwardians and shadow demons and had access to highly advanced technology capable of shifting, merging, or destroying entire universes.\n\nBy far, his most devastating power was the ability to absorb the energies of his surroundings into himself; once he fused with his antimatter universe, he went even as far as absorbing the energies of entire universes. In addition to devouring the energies of untold numbers of universes, he also absorbed the energy of \"over one million worlds\" in his own anti-matter universe in order to gain the power to travel to the beginning of time to attempt to stop the creation of the positive matter universe. When Earth's heroes followed him to the beginning of time, he then absorbed all of their power and energy; this made him strong enough to alter the creation of the universe until he was opposed by the Spectre. During his final battle in \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" #12, the Anti-Monitor maintained his power by \"feeding on\" a nearby star; and when his power was drained and he was reduced to a state of near-death, he absorbed his own anti-matter demons to rejuvenate himself.\n\nThe Anti-Monitor is not immortal, but may be ultimately indestructible so long as the anti-matter universe exists; having been destroyed with an immense effort at the end of the Crisis, he was recreated by his universe, just as he had been formed originally.\n\n\nThe Anti-Monitor appears as the main antagonist of the second story arc of \"\", voiced by Tom Kenny. The animated version of the Anti-Monitor features a more machine-like face, with glowing blue eyes and a flat surface where the mouth is. This version of the Anti-Monitor was created by the renegade guardian Krona as the \"ultimate being\", one capable of anything, even time travel. When it was activated, the Anti-Monitor recognized its superiority and turned against Krona, forcing him to banish Anti-Monitor to another universe. He is first shown in the series in \"The New Guy\", entering the show's universe by splitting open the fabric of space and heading down to a nearby junkyard planet, destroying one of many automated security ships which tells him otherwise before declaring to several defunct Manhunters that he is their new master before unleashing a signal that reactivates all Manhunters across space for his own motives. The heroes engage him in the second episode of the arc, where he is shown as a giant, stating he consumed the planets of his universe and hungers for more. He shrugged off the most powerful attacks of both the Lanterns and their starship. The episode ends with him hitting Hal Jordan with an energy attack that ends up blasting him through a dimensional rift. The next episode reveals he was blasted into Anti-Monitor's prison universe, completely empty except for a single sun and an alternate version of Earth, the latter of which was spared in return for helping Anti-Monitor to escape his prison universe. After returning to his original universe, Hal joins with his Green Lantern comrades to fight Anti-Monitor and his Manhunter army. In the episode \"Cold Fury\", however, a super-charged and seemingly emotionless Aya sends the Anti-Monitor's head flying while she connects herself to his headless body for her own agenda. However, as revealed in \"Ranx\", this did not kill the Anti-Monitor, and as a head ended up at the planet Ranx where he intended to regain his power. Unfortunately, Aya and her modified Manhunters attack Ranx to obtain the device built in the Anti-Monitor's head to arrive to the moment before the Big Bang. Though the Anti-Monitor attempts to recruit Hal, Kilowog, and Razer for protection, Aya breaks through Ranx's defenses and subdues the lanterns. Though Anti-Monitor suggests her to let him accompany her to see the beginning of existence, Aya rips open the Anti-Monitor's head and obtains her prize.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457", "title": "Apoptosis", "text": "Apoptosis\n\nApoptosis (from Ancient Greek ἀπόπτωσις \"falling off\") is a form of programmed cell death that occurs in multicellular organisms. Biochemical events lead to characteristic cell changes (morphology) and death. These changes include blebbing, cell shrinkage, nuclear fragmentation, chromatin condensation, chromosomal DNA fragmentation, and global mRNA decay. The average adult human loses between 50 and 70 billion cells each day due to apoptosis. For an average human child between the ages of 8 to 14 year old approximately 20 to 30 billion cells die a day.\n\nIn contrast to necrosis, which is a form of traumatic cell death that results from acute cellular injury, apoptosis is a highly regulated and controlled process that confers advantages during an organism's lifecycle. For example, the separation of fingers and toes in a developing human embryo occurs because cells between the digits undergo apoptosis. Unlike necrosis, apoptosis produces cell fragments called apoptotic bodies that phagocytic cells are able to engulf and remove before the contents of the cell can spill out onto surrounding cells and cause damage to them.\n\nBecause apoptosis cannot stop once it has begun, it is a highly regulated process. Apoptosis can be initiated through one of two pathways. In the \"intrinsic pathway\" the cell kills itself because it senses cell stress, while in the \"extrinsic pathway\" the cell kills itself because of signals from other cells. Weak external signals may also activate the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis. Both pathways induce cell death by activating caspases, which are proteases, or enzymes that degrade proteins. The two pathways both activate initiator caspases, which then activate executioner caspases, which then kill the cell by degrading proteins indiscriminately.\n\nResearch on apoptosis has increased substantially since the early 1990s. In addition to its importance as a biological phenomenon, defective apoptotic processes have been implicated in a wide variety of diseases. Excessive apoptosis causes atrophy, whereas an insufficient amount results in uncontrolled cell proliferation, such as cancer.\nSome factors like Fas receptors and caspases promote apoptosis, while some members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins inhibit apoptosis.\n\nGerman scientist Karl Vogt was first to describe the principle of apoptosis in 1842. In 1885, anatomist Walther Flemming delivered a more precise description of the process of programmed cell death. However, it was not until 1965 that the topic was resurrected. While studying tissues using electron microscopy, John Foxton Ross Kerr at the University of Queensland was able to distinguish apoptosis from traumatic cell death. Following the publication of a paper describing the phenomenon, Kerr was invited to join Alastair R. Currie, as well as Andrew Wyllie, who was Currie's graduate student, at University of Aberdeen. In 1972, the trio published a seminal article in the British Journal of Cancer. Kerr had initially used the term programmed cell necrosis, but in the article, the process of natural cell death was called \"apoptosis\". Kerr, Wyllie and Currie credited James Cormack, a professor of Greek language at University of Aberdeen, with suggesting the term apoptosis. Kerr received the Paul Ehrlich and Ludwig Darmstaedter Prize on March 14, 2000, for his description of apoptosis. He shared the prize with Boston biologist H. Robert Horvitz.\n\nFor many years, neither \"apoptosis\" nor \"programmed cell death\" was a highly cited term. Two discoveries brought cell death from obscurity to a major field of research: identification of components of the cell death control and effector mechanisms, and linkage of abnormalities in cell death to human disease, in particular cancer.\n\nThe 2002 Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, Horvitz and John E. Sulston for their work identifying genes that control apoptosis. The genes were identified by studies in the nematode \"C. elegans\" and homologues of these genes function in humans to regulate apoptosis.\nIn Greek, apoptosis translates to the \"falling off\" of leaves from a tree. Cormack, professor of Greek language, reintroduced the term for medical use as it had a medical meaning for the Greeks over two thousand years before. Hippocrates used the term to mean \"the falling off of the bones\". Galen extended its meaning to \"the dropping of the scabs\". Cormack was no doubt aware of this usage when he suggested the name. Debate continues over the correct pronunciation, with opinion divided between a pronunciation with the second \"p\" silent ( ) and the second \"p\" pronounced (), as in the original Greek. In English, the \"p\" of the Greek \"-pt-\" consonant cluster is typically silent at the beginning of a word (e.g. pterodactyl, Ptolemy), but articulated when used in combining forms preceded by a vowel, as in helicopter or the orders of insects: diptera, lepidoptera, etc.\n\nIn the original Kerr, Wyllie & Currie paper, there is a footnote regarding the pronunciation:\n\n\"We are most grateful to Professor James Cormack of the Department of Greek, University of Aberdeen, for suggesting this term. The word \"apoptosis\" () is used in Greek to describe the \"dropping off\" or \"falling off\" of petals from flowers, or leaves from trees. To show the derivation clearly, we propose that the stress should be on the penultimate syllable, the second half of the word being pronounced like \"ptosis\" (with the \"p\" silent), which comes from the same root \"to fall\", and is already used to describe the drooping of the upper eyelid.\"\n\nThe initiation of apoptosis is tightly regulated by activation mechanisms, because once apoptosis has begun, it inevitably leads to the death of the cell. The two best-understood activation mechanisms are the intrinsic pathway (also called the mitochondrial pathway) and the extrinsic pathway. The \"intrinsic pathway\" is activated by intracellular signals generated when cells are stressed and depends on the release of proteins from the intermembrane space of mitochondria. The \"extrinsic pathway\" is activated by extracellular ligands binding to cell-surface death receptors, which leads to the formation of the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC).\n\nA cell initiates intracellular apoptotic signaling in response to a stress, which may bring about cell suicide. The binding of nuclear receptors by glucocorticoids, heat, radiation, nutrient deprivation, viral infection, hypoxia, increased intracellular concentration of free fatty acids and increased intracellular calcium concentration, for example, by damage to the membrane, can all trigger the release of intracellular apoptotic signals by a damaged cell. A number of cellular components, such as poly ADP ribose polymerase, may also help regulate apoptosis. Single cell fluctuations have been observed in experimental studies of stress induced apoptosis.\n\nBefore the actual process of cell death is precipitated by enzymes, apoptotic signals must cause regulatory proteins to initiate the apoptosis pathway. This step allows those signals to cause cell death, or the process to be stopped, should the cell no longer need to die. Several proteins are involved, but two main methods of regulation have been identified: the targeting of mitochondria functionality, or directly transducing the signal via adaptor proteins to the apoptotic mechanisms. An extrinsic pathway for initiation identified in several toxin studies is an increase in calcium concentration within a cell caused by drug activity, which also can cause apoptosis via a calcium binding protease calpain.\n\nThe mitochondria are essential to multicellular life. Without them, a cell ceases to respire aerobically and quickly dies. This fact forms the basis for some apoptotic pathways. Apoptotic proteins that target mitochondria affect them in different ways. They may cause mitochondrial swelling through the formation of membrane pores, or they may increase the permeability of the mitochondrial membrane and cause apoptotic effectors to leak out. They are very closely related to intrinsic pathway, and tumors arise more frequently through intrinsic pathway than the extrinsic pathway because of sensitivity. There is also a growing body of evidence indicating that nitric oxide is able to induce apoptosis by helping to dissipate the membrane potential of mitochondria and therefore make it more permeable. Nitric oxide has been implicated in initiating and inhibiting apoptosis through its possible action as a signal molecule of subsequent pathways that activate apoptosis.\n\nMitochondrial proteins known as SMACs (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases) are released into the cell's cytosol following the increase in permeability of the mitochondria membranes. SMAC binds to \"proteins that inhibit apoptosis\" (IAPs) thereby deactivating them, and preventing the IAPs from arresting the process and therefore allowing apoptosis to proceed. IAP also normally suppresses the activity of a group of cysteine proteases called caspases, which carry out the degradation of the cell. Therefore, the actual degradation enzymes can be seen to be indirectly regulated by mitochondrial permeability.\n\nCytochrome c is also released from mitochondria due to formation of a channel, the mitochondrial apoptosis-induced channel (MAC), in the outer mitochondrial membrane, and serves a regulatory function as it precedes morphological change associated with apoptosis. Once cytochrome c is released it binds with Apoptotic protease activating factor – 1 (\"Apaf-1\") and ATP, which then bind to \"pro-caspase-9\" to create a protein complex known as an apoptosome. The apoptosome cleaves the pro-caspase to its active form of caspase-9, which in turn activates the effector \"caspase-3\".\n\nMAC (not to be confused with the membrane attack complex formed by complement activation, also commonly denoted as MAC), also called \"Mitochondrial Outer Membrane Permeabilization Pore\" is regulated by various proteins, such as those encoded by the mammalian Bcl-2 family of anti-apoptopic genes, the homologs of the \"ced-9\" gene found in \"C. elegans\". \"Bcl-2\" proteins are able to promote or inhibit apoptosis by direct action on MAC/MOMPP. Bax and/or Bak form the pore, while Bcl-2, Bcl-xL or Mcl-1 inhibit its formation.\n\nTwo theories of the direct initiation of apoptotic mechanisms in mammals have been suggested: the \"TNF-induced\" (tumor necrosis factor) model and the \"Fas-Fas ligand-mediated\" model, both involving receptors of the \"TNF receptor\" (TNFR) family coupled to extrinsic signals.\n\nTNF path\n\nTNF-alpha is a cytokine produced mainly by activated macrophages, and is the major extrinsic mediator of apoptosis. Most cells in the human body have two receptors for TNF-alpha: TNFR1 and TNFR2. The binding of TNF-alpha to TNFR1 has been shown to initiate the pathway that leads to caspase activation via the intermediate membrane proteins TNF receptor-associated death domain (TRADD) and Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD). cIAP1/2 can inhibit TNF-α signaling by binding to TRAF2. FLIP inhibits the activation of caspase-8. Binding of this receptor can also indirectly lead to the activation of transcription factors involved in cell survival and inflammatory responses. However, signalling through TNFR1 might also induce apoptosis in a caspase-independent manner. The link between TNF-alpha and apoptosis shows why an abnormal production of TNF-alpha plays a fundamental role in several human diseases, especially in autoimmune diseases.\n\nFas path\n\nThe fas receptor (First apoptosis signal) – (also known as \"Apo-1\" or \"CD95\") is a transmembrane protein of the TNF family which binds the Fas ligand (FasL). The interaction between Fas and FasL results in the formation of the \"death-inducing signaling complex\" (DISC), which contains the FADD, caspase-8 and caspase-10. In some types of cells (type I), processed caspase-8 directly activates other members of the caspase family, and triggers the execution of apoptosis of the cell. In other types of cells (type II), the \"Fas\"-DISC starts a feedback loop that spirals into increasing release of proapoptotic factors from mitochondria and the amplified activation of caspase-8.\n\nCommon components\n\nFollowing \"TNF-R1\" and \"Fas\" activation in mammalian cells a balance between proapoptotic (BAX, BID, BAK, or BAD) and anti-apoptotic (\"Bcl-Xl\" and \"Bcl-2\") members of the \"Bcl-2\" family are established. This balance is the proportion of proapoptotic homodimers that form in the outer-membrane of the mitochondrion. The proapoptotic homodimers are required to make the mitochondrial membrane permeable for the release of caspase activators such as cytochrome c and SMAC. Control of proapoptotic proteins under normal cell conditions of nonapoptotic cells is incompletely understood, but in general, Bax or Bak are activated by the activation of BH3-only proteins, part of the Bcl-2 family.\n\nCaspases\nCaspases play the central role in the transduction of ER apoptotic signals. Caspases are proteins that are highly conserved, cysteine-dependent aspartate-specific proteases. There are two types of caspases: initiator caspases, caspase 2,8,9,10,11,12, and effector caspases, caspase 3,6,7. The activation of initiator caspases requires binding to specific oligomeric activator protein. Effector caspases are then activated by these active initiator caspases through proteolytic cleavage. The active effector caspases then proteolytically degrade a host of intracellular proteins to carry out the cell death program.\n\nCaspase-independent apoptotic pathway\nThere also exists a caspase-independent apoptotic pathway that is mediated by AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor).\n\nAmphibian frog \"Xenopus laevis\" serves as an ideal model system for the study of the mechanisms of apoptosis. In fact, iodine and thyroxine also stimulate the spectacular apoptosis of the cells of the larval gills, tail and fins in amphibians metamorphosis, and stimulate the evolution of their nervous system transforming the aquatic, vegetarian tadpole into the terrestrial, carnivorous frog.\n\nNegative regulation of apoptosis inhibits cell death signaling pathways, helping tumors to evade cell death and developing drug resistance. Many families of proteins act as negative regulators categorized into either antiapoptotic factors, such as IAPs and Bcl-2 proteins or prosurvival factors like cFLIP, BNIP3, FADD, Akt, and NF-κB.\n\nMany pathways and signals lead to apoptosis, but these converge on a single mechanism that actually causes the death of the cell. After a cell receives stimulus, it undergoes organized degradation of cellular organelles by activated proteolytic caspases. In addition to the destruction of cellular organelles, mRNA is rapidly and globally degraded by a mechanism that is not yet fully characterized. mRNA decay is triggered very early in apoptosis.\n\nA cell undergoing apoptosis shows a series of characteristic morphological changes. Early alterations include:\n\nApoptosis progresses quickly and its products are quickly removed, making it difficult to detect or visualize on classical histology sections. During karyorrhexis, endonuclease activation leaves short DNA fragments, regularly spaced in size. These give a characteristic \"laddered\" appearance on agar gel after electrophoresis. Tests for DNA laddering differentiate apoptosis from ischemic or toxic cell death.\n\nBefore the apoptotic cell is disposed of, there is a process of disassembly. There are three recognized steps in apoptotic cell disassembly:\n\nThe removal of dead cells by neighboring phagocytic cells has been termed efferocytosis.\nDying cells that undergo the final stages of apoptosis display phagocytotic molecules, such as phosphatidylserine, on their cell surface. Phosphatidylserine is normally found on the inner leaflet surface of the plasma membrane, but is redistributed during apoptosis to the extracellular surface by a protein known as scramblase. These molecules mark the cell for phagocytosis by cells possessing the appropriate receptors, such as macrophages. The removal of dying cells by phagocytes occurs in an orderly manner without eliciting an inflammatory response. During apoptosis cellular RNA and DNA are separated from each other and sorted to different apoptotic bodies; separation of RNA is initiated as nucleolar segregation.\n\nMany knock-outs have been made in the apoptosis pathways to test the function of each of the proteins. Several caspases, in addition to APAF1 and FADD, have been mutated to determine the new phenotype. In order to create a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) knockout, an exon containing the nucleotides 3704–5364 was removed from the gene. This exon encodes a portion of the mature TNF domain, as well as the leader sequence, which is a highly conserved region necessary for proper intracellular processing. TNF-/- mice develop normally and have no gross structural or morphological abnormalities. However, upon immunization with SRBC (sheep red blood cells), these mice demonstrated a deficiency in the maturation of an antibody response; they were able to generate normal levels of IgM, but could not develop specific IgG levels. Apaf-1 is the protein that turns on caspase 9 by cleavage to begin the caspase cascade that leads to apoptosis. Since a -/- mutation in the APAF-1 gene is embryonic lethal, a gene trap strategy was used in order to generate an APAF-1 -/- mouse. This assay is used to disrupt gene function by creating an intragenic gene fusion. When an APAF-1 gene trap is introduced into cells, many morphological changes occur, such as spina bifida, the persistence of interdigital webs, and open brain. In addition, after embryonic day 12.5, the brain of the embryos showed several structural changes. APAF-1 cells are protected from apoptosis stimuli such as irradiation. A BAX-1 knock-out mouse exhibits normal forebrain formation and a decreased programmed cell death in some neuronal populations and in the spinal cord, leading to an increase in motor neurons.\n\nThe caspase proteins are integral parts of the apoptosis pathway, so it follows that knock-outs made have varying damaging results. A caspase 9 knock-out leads to a severe brain malformation. A caspase 8 knock-out leads to cardiac failure and thus embryonic lethality. However, with the use of cre-lox technology, a caspase 8 knock-out has been created that exhibits an increase in peripheral T cells, an impaired T cell response, and a defect in neural tube closure. These mice were found to be resistant to apoptosis mediated by CD95, TNFR, etc. but not resistant to apoptosis caused by UV irradiation, chemotherapeutic drugs, and other stimuli. Finally, a caspase 3 knock-out was characterized by ectopic cell masses in the brain and abnormal apoptotic features such as membrane blebbing or nuclear fragmentation. A remarkable feature of these KO mice is that they have a very restricted phenotype: Casp3, 9, APAF-1 KO mice have deformations of neural tissue and FADD and Casp 8 KO showed defective heart development, however in both types of KO other organs developed normally and some cell types were still sensitive to apoptotic stimuli suggesting that unknown proapoptotic pathways exist.\n\nIn order to perform analysis of apoptotic versus necrotic (necroptotic) cells, one can do analysis of morphology by time-lapse microscopy, flow fluorocytometry, and transmission electron microscopy. There are also various biochemical techniques for analysis of cell surface markers (phosphatidylserine exposure versus cell permeability by flow cytometry), cellular markers such as DNA fragmentation (flow cytometry), caspase activation, Bid cleavage, and cytochrome c release (Western blotting). It is important to know how primary and secondary necrotic cells can be distinguished by analysis of supernatant for caspases, HMGB1, and release of cytokeratin 18. However, no distinct surface or biochemical markers of necrotic cell death have been identified yet, and only negative markers are available. These include absence of apoptotic markers (caspase activation, cytochrome c release, and oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation) and differential kinetics of cell death markers (phosphatidylserine exposure and cell membrane permeabilization). A selection of techniques that can be used to distinguish apoptosis from necroptotic cells could be found in these references.\n\nThe many different types of apoptotic pathways contain a multitude of different biochemical components, many of them not yet understood. As a pathway is more or less sequential in nature, removing or modifying one component leads to an effect in another. In a living organism, this can have disastrous effects, often in the form of disease or disorder. A discussion of every disease caused by modification of the various apoptotic pathways would be impractical, but the concept overlying each one is the same: The normal functioning of the pathway has been disrupted in such a way as to impair the ability of the cell to undergo normal apoptosis. This results in a cell that lives past its \"use-by-date\" and is able to replicate and pass on any faulty machinery to its progeny, increasing the likelihood of the cell's becoming cancerous or diseased.\n\nA recently described example of this concept in action can be seen in the development of a lung cancer called NCI-H460. The \"X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein\" (XIAP) is overexpressed in cells of the H460 cell line. XIAPs bind to the processed form of caspase-9, and suppress the activity of apoptotic activator cytochrome c, therefore overexpression leads to a decrease in the amount of proapoptotic agonists. As a consequence, the balance of anti-apoptotic and proapoptotic effectors is upset in favour of the former, and the damaged cells continue to replicate despite being directed to die. Defects in regulation of apoptosis in cancer cells occur often at the level of control of transcription factors. As a particular example, defects in molecules that control transcription factor NF-κB in cancer change the mode of transcriptional regulation and the response to apoptotic signals, to curtail dependence on the tissue that the cell belongs. This degree of independence from external survival signals, can enable cancer metastasis.\n\nThe tumor-suppressor protein p53 accumulates when DNA is damaged due to a chain of biochemical factors. Part of this pathway includes alpha-interferon and beta-interferon, which induce transcription of the \"p53\" gene, resulting in the increase of p53 protein level and enhancement of cancer cell-apoptosis. p53 prevents the cell from replicating by stopping the cell cycle at G1, or interphase, to give the cell time to repair, however it will induce apoptosis if damage is extensive and repair efforts fail. Any disruption to the regulation of the \"p53\" or interferon genes will result in impaired apoptosis and the possible formation of tumors.\n\nInhibition of apoptosis can result in a number of cancers, autoimmune diseases, inflammatory diseases, and viral infections. It was originally believed that the associated accumulation of cells was due to an increase in cellular proliferation, but it is now known that it is also due to a decrease in cell death. The most common of these diseases is cancer, the disease of excessive cellular proliferation, which is often characterized by an overexpression of IAP family members. As a result, the malignant cells experience an abnormal response to apoptosis induction: Cycle-regulating genes (such as p53, ras or c-myc) are mutated or inactivated in diseased cells, and further genes (such as bcl-2) also modify their expression in tumors. Some apoptotic factors are vital during mitochondrial respiration e.g. cytochrome C. Pathological inactivation of apoptosis in cancer cells is correlated with frequent respiratory metabolic shifts toward glycolysis (an observation known as the “Warburg hypothesis”.\n\nApoptosis in HeLa cells is inhibited by proteins produced by the cell; these inhibitory proteins target retinoblastoma tumor-suppressing proteins. These tumor-suppressing proteins regulate the cell cycle, but are rendered inactive when bound to an inhibitory protein. HPV E6 and E7 are inhibitory proteins expressed by the human papillomavirus, HPV being responsible for the formation of the cervical tumor from which HeLa cells are derived. HPV E6 causes p53, which regulates the cell cycle, to become inactive. HPV E7 binds to retinoblastoma tumor suppressing proteins and limits its ability to control cell division. These two inhibitory proteins are partially responsible for HeLa cells' immortality by inhibiting apoptosis to occur. CDV (Canine Distemper Virus) is able to induce apoptosis despite the presence of these inhibitory proteins. This is an important oncolytic property of CDV: this virus is capable of killing canine lymphoma cells. Oncoproteins E6 and E7 still leave p53 inactive, but they are not able to avoid the activation of caspases induced from the stress of viral infection. These oncolytic properties provided a promising link between CDV and lymphoma apoptosis, which can lead to development of alternative treatment methods for both canine lymphoma and human non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Defects in the cell cycle are thought to be responsible for the resistance to chemotherapy or radiation by certain tumor cells, so a virus that can induce apoptosis despite defects in the cell cycle is useful for cancer treatment.\n\nThe main method of treatment for potential death from signaling-related diseases involves either increasing or decreasing the susceptibility of apoptosis in diseased cells, depending on whether the disease is caused by either the inhibition of or excess apoptosis. For instance, treatments aim to restore apoptosis to treat diseases with deficient cell death, and to increase the apoptotic threshold to treat diseases involved with excessive cell death. To stimulate apoptosis, one can increase the number of death receptor ligands (such as TNF or TRAIL), antagonize the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 pathway, or introduce Smac mimetics to inhibit the inhibitor (IAPs). The addition of agents such as Herceptin, Iressa, or Gleevec works to stop cells from cycling and causes apoptosis activation by blocking growth and survival signaling further upstream. Finally, adding p53-MDM2 complexes displaces p53 and activates the p53 pathway, leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Many different methods can be used either to stimulate or to inhibit apoptosis in various places along the death signaling pathway.\n\nApoptosis is a multi-step, multi-pathway cell-death programme that is inherent in every cell of the body. In cancer, the apoptosis cell-division ratio is altered. Cancer treatment by chemotherapy and irradiation kills target cells primarily by inducing apoptosis.\n\nOn the other hand, loss of control of cell death (resulting in excess apoptosis) can lead to neurodegenerative diseases, hematologic diseases, and tissue damage. It is of interest to note that neurons that rely on mitochondrial respiration undergo apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s (an observation known as the “Inverse Warburg hypothesis” ). Moreover, there is an inverse epidemiological comorbidity between neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. The progression of HIV is directly linked to excess, unregulated apoptosis. In a healthy individual, the number of CD4+ lymphocytes is in balance with the cells generated by the bone marrow; however, in HIV-positive patients, this balance is lost due to an inability of the bone marrow to regenerate CD4+ cells. In the case of HIV, CD4+ lymphocytes die at an accelerated rate through uncontrolled apoptosis, when stimulated.\nAt the molecular level, hyperactive apoptosis can be caused by defects in signaling pathways that regulate the Bcl-2 family proteins. Increased expression of apoptotic proteins such as BIM, or their decreased proteolysis, leads to cell death, and can cause a number of pathologies, depending on the cells where excessive activity of BIM occurs. Cancer cells can escape apoptosis through mechanisms that suppress BIM expression or by increased proteolysis of BIM.\n\nTreatments aiming to inhibit works to block specific caspases. Finally, the Akt protein kinase promotes cell survival through two pathways. Akt phosphorylates and inhibits Bad (a Bcl-2 family member), causing Bad to interact with the 14-3-3 scaffold, resulting in Bcl dissociation and thus cell survival. Akt also activates IKKα, which leads to NF-κB activation and cell survival. Active NF-κB induces the expression of anti-apoptotic genes such as Bcl-2, resulting in inhibition of apoptosis. NF-κB has been found to play both an antiapoptotic role and a proapoptotic role depending on the stimuli utilized and the cell type.\n\nThe progression of the human immunodeficiency virus infection into AIDS is due primarily to the depletion of CD4+ T-helper lymphocytes in a manner that is too rapid for the body's bone marrow to replenish the cells, leading to a compromised immune system. One of the mechanisms by which T-helper cells are depleted is apoptosis, which results from a series of biochemical pathways:\n\nCells may also die as direct consequences of viral infections. HIV-1 expression induces tubular cell G2/M arrest and apoptosis. The progression from HIV to AIDS is not immediate or even necessarily rapid; HIV's cytotoxic activity toward CD4+ lymphocytes is classified as AIDS once a given patient's CD4+ cell count falls below 200.\n\nResearchers from Kumamoto University in Japan have developed a new method to eradicate HIV in viral reservoir cells, named \"Lock-in and apoptosis.\" Using the synthesized compound Heptanoylphosphatidyl L-Inositol Pentakisphophate (or L-Hippo) to bind strongly to the HIV protein PR55Gag, they were able to suppress viral budding. By suppressing viral budding, the researchers were able to trap the HIV virus in the cell and allow for the cell to undergo apoptosis (natural cell death). Associate Professor Mikako Fujita has stated that the approach is not yet available to HIV patients because the research team has to conduct further research on combining the drug therapy that currently exists with this \"Lock-in and apoptosis\" approach to lead to complete recovery from HIV.\n\nViral induction of apoptosis occurs when one or several cells of a living organism are infected with a virus, leading to cell death. Cell death in organisms is necessary for the normal development of cells and the cell cycle maturation. It is also important in maintaining the regular functions and activities of cells.\n\nViruses can trigger apoptosis of infected cells via a range of mechanisms including:\nCanine distemper virus (CDV) is known to cause apoptosis in central nervous system and lymphoid tissue of infected dogs in vivo and in vitro.\nApoptosis caused by CDV is typically induced via the extrinsic pathway, which activates caspases that disrupt cellular function and eventually leads to the cells death. In normal cells, CDV activates caspase-8 first, which works as the initiator protein followed by the executioner protein caspase-3. However, apoptosis induced by CDV in HeLa cells does not involve the initiator protein caspase-8. HeLa cell apoptosis caused by CDV follows a different mechanism than that in vero cell lines. This change in the caspase cascade suggests CDV induces apoptosis via the intrinsic pathway, excluding the need for the initiator caspase-8. The executioner protein is instead activated by the internal stimuli caused by viral infection not a caspase cascade.\n\nThe Oropouche virus (OROV) is found in the family \"Bunyaviridae\". The study of apoptosis brought on by \"Bunyaviridae\" was initiated in 1996, when it was observed that apoptosis was induced by the La Crosse virus into the kidney cells of baby hamsters and into the brains of baby mice.\n\nOROV is a disease that is transmitted between humans by the biting midge (\"Culicoides paraensis\"). It is referred to as a zoonotic arbovirus and causes febrile illness, characterized by the onset of a sudden fever known as Oropouche fever.\n\nThe Oropouche virus also causes disruption in cultured cells – cells that are cultivated in distinct and specific conditions. An example of this can be seen in HeLa cells, whereby the cells begin to degenerate shortly after they are infected.\n\nWith the use of gel electrophoresis, it can be observed that OROV causes DNA fragmentation in HeLa cells. It can be interpreted by counting, measuring, and analyzing the cells of the Sub/G1 cell population. When HeLA cells are infected with OROV, the cytochrome C is released from the membrane of the mitochondria, into the cytosol of the cells. This type of interaction shows that apoptosis is activated via an intrinsic pathway.\n\nIn order for apoptosis to occur within OROV, viral uncoating, viral internalization, along with the replication of cells is necessary. Apoptosis in some viruses is activated by extracellular stimuli. However, studies have demonstrated that the OROV infection causes apoptosis to be activated through intracellular stimuli and involves the mitochondria.\n\nMany viruses encode proteins that can inhibit apoptosis. Several viruses encode viral homologs of Bcl-2. These homologs can inhibit proapoptotic proteins such as BAX and BAK, which are essential for the activation of apoptosis. Examples of viral Bcl-2 proteins include the Epstein-Barr virus BHRF1 protein and the adenovirus E1B 19K protein. Some viruses express caspase inhibitors that inhibit caspase activity and an example is the CrmA protein of cowpox viruses. Whilst a number of viruses can block the effects of TNF and Fas. For example, the M-T2 protein of myxoma viruses can bind TNF preventing it from binding the TNF receptor and inducing a response. Furthermore, many viruses express p53 inhibitors that can bind p53 and inhibit its transcriptional transactivation activity. As a consequence, p53 cannot induce apoptosis, since it cannot induce the expression of proapoptotic proteins. The adenovirus E1B-55K protein and the hepatitis B virus HBx protein are examples of viral proteins that can perform such a function.\n\nViruses can remain intact from apoptosis in particular in the latter stages of infection. They can be exported in the \"apoptotic bodies\" that pinch off from the surface of the dying cell, and the fact that they are engulfed by phagocytes prevents the initiation of a host response. This favours the spread of the virus.\n\nProgrammed cell death in plants has a number of molecular similarities to that of animal apoptosis, but it also has differences, notable ones being the presence of a cell wall and the lack of an immune system that removes the pieces of the dead cell. Instead of an immune response, the dying cell synthesizes substances to break itself down and places them in a vacuole that ruptures as the cell dies. Whether this whole process resembles animal apoptosis closely enough to warrant using the name \"apoptosis\" (as opposed to the more general \"programmed cell death\") is unclear.\n\nThe characterization of the caspases allowed the development of caspase inhibitors, which can be used to determine whether a cellular process involves active caspases. Using these inhibitors it was discovered that cells can die while displaying a morphology similar to apoptosis without caspase activation. Later studies linked this phenomenon to the release of AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor) from the mitochondria and its translocation into the nucleus mediated by its NLS (nuclear localization signal). Inside the mitochondria, AIF is anchored to the inner membrane. In order to be released, the protein is cleaved by a calcium-dependent calpain protease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39153633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39153633", "title": "Ashoka's Hell", "text": "Ashoka's Hell\n\nAshoka's Hell was, according to legend, an elaborate torture chamber disguised as a beautiful palace full of amenities such as exclusive baths and decorated with flowers, fruit trees and ornaments. It was built by Emperor Ashoka (304–232 BCE) in Pataliputra (modern Patna, India), the capital city of the Maurya Empire. The legend of the torture palace is detailed in the \"Ashokavadana\", the text that describes Emperor Ashoka's life through both legendary and historical accounts.\n\nAccording to legend, the palatial torture chamber was artfully designed to make its exterior visually pleasing and was referred to as the \"beautiful gaol\". Beneath the veneer of beauty, however, deep inside the exclusive mansion, torture chambers were constructed which were full of sadistic and cruel instruments of torture including furnaces producing molten metal for pouring on prisoners.\n\nThe narrative mentions that the architect of the chamber was inspired by descriptions of the five tortures of the Buddhist hell for the design of the torture chamber and of the torture methods he inflicted upon his victims. The text of the \"Ashokavadana\", describes how the torture chamber was so terrifying, it caused people to believe that Ashoka had visited hell itself in his quest to perfect its evil design. Through a pact made between Ashoka and the official executioner of the torture chamber anyone entering the palace, even by chance as a visitor, was not allowed to come out alive.\n\nAccording to the narrations of \"Ashokavadana\", Emperor Ashoka, prior to his conversion to Buddhism, was a fierce and sadistic ruler, known as \"Ashoka the Fierce\", or Chandashoka (Ashoka the Cruel), who sent his minions on a quest to find a vicious man to work as his official executioner.\n\nAfter some searching, Ashoka's men found a suitable candidate by the name of Girika who was so vicious that he killed his own parents because they did not want him to become Ashoka's executioner. Girika was introduced to Ashoka who soon appointed him as the official executioner of his Empire.\n\nAccording to legend, Girika persuaded Ashoka to design the torture chamber based on the suffering endured by people reborn in Buddhist hell. The \"Ashokavadana\" documents a long list of torture acts Girika designed and planned to force upon his prisoners including \"prying open their mouths with an iron and pouring boiling copper down their throats\". Innocent persons were not exempt from such treatment.\n\nIn the narrative of \"Ashokavadana\", Ashoka asked Girika to disguise the torture chamber as a beautiful and \"enticing\" palace full of amenities such as exclusive baths and to decorate it with flowers, fruit trees and many ornaments. The palatial torture chamber was artfully designed to make people long to just look at it, and even attract them to enter, and was referred to as the \"beautiful gaol\".\n\nAccording to the mythology, beneath the veneer of beauty, inside the exclusive mansion, torture chambers were constructed which were full of the most sadistic and cruel instruments of torture including furnaces producing molten metal for pouring on the prisoners.\n\nIn the narrative, Ashoka made a pact with Girika that he would never allow anyone who entered the palace to exit alive, including Ashoka himself. The torture chamber was so terrifying, that Emperor Ashoka was thought to have visited hell so that he could perfect its evil design. In the \"Biographical Sutra of Emperor Ashoka\" the palace is described by the sentence: 'Emperor Ashoka constructed a hell'.\n\n\"Ashokavadana\" refers to Girika as Chandagirika or Girika the Cruel. It appears that Girika overheard a Buddhist monk recite the \"Balapanditasutta\" which contains vivid descriptions of the five tortures of hell, such as: and got his ideas of how to torture prisoners from there. The text describes Girika's attitude toward punishment as follows: \"Such are the five great agonies, Girika reflected, and he began to inflict these same tortures on people in his prison\". In addition the \"Balapanditasutta\" compares the King's torture methods to the tortures of hell.\n\nThe \"Ashokavadana\" further mentions that sometime later a Buddhist monk by the name of Samudra happened to visit the palace and upon entering he was informed by Girika that he would be tortured to death, and was subsequently led into the torture chamber. His torturers however failed to injure him and he appeared able to neutralise their torture methods by realising that the suffering of the other prisoners is part of the Buddhist dogma of suffering and attaining arhatship.\n\nA particular narration detailed how Samudra, while tortured in a cauldron full of boiling water, human blood, bone marrow and excrement, caused the contents of the cauldron to cool down and then sat meditating cross-legged on a lotus sprouting from the fluid.\n\nThe narrative further describes that when Ashoka heard of these miracles, he was overcome with curiosity and decided to enter the chamber to verify for himself the veracity of the stories. After arriving there he witnessed Samudra levitating with half his body on fire and the other half raining water. Intrigued he asked Samudra to identify himself.\n\nSamudra replied that he was a disciple of Buddha and adherent to the Dharma. Samudra then chastised Ashoka for having built the torture chamber and further instructed him to build eighty four thousand stupas according to Buddha's prophecy, and to guarantee the security of all beings. To those demands, Ashoka acquiesced. Further he confessed to his crimes and accepted Buddha and the Dharma.\n\nThe \"Ashokavadana\" describes the events leading to the demolition of Ashoka's torture chamber. According to the text, the torture chamber had become the site and the reason of his conversion to Buddhism. Girika, as the resident executioner of the chamber, however, reminded Ashoka of his pledge to kill anyone entering the chamber including Ashoka himself.\n\nAshoka then questioned Girika as to who entered the torture palace first during their visit to see Samudra's miracles. Girika was then forced to admit that it was he who entered first. Upon the executioner's confession, Ashoka ordered him burnt alive and also ordered the demolition of the torture palace. According to the \"Ashokavadana\", \"the beautiful jail was then torn down and a guarantee of security was extended to all beings\".\n\nFrom that point on, Ashoka became known as \"Ashoka the Pious\". Buddhist monk Xuanzang in his writings mentions that in the 7th century AD he had visited the place where Ashoka's torture chamber once was and that it was, even at that time, referred to in Hindu tradition as \"Ashoka's Hell\". Xuanzang also claimed that he saw the column identifying the location of Ashoka's Hell.\n\nIn India, the palace is known as \"Ashoka's Hell\" and its location near Pataliputra became a popular destination for pilgrims. In the 5th century, AD Faxian, who was also a Buddhist monk, also reports visiting it and his account of the story of the palace differs slightly from that of Xuanzang's. In the 1890s, British explorer Laurence Waddell, while in Patna, established that Agam Kuan, which means the \"unfathomable well\", was part of Ashoka's Hell as reported also by the two Chinese monks.\n"}
{"id": "37395532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37395532", "title": "Capital punishment in the District of Columbia", "text": "Capital punishment in the District of Columbia\n\nCapital punishment is abolished in the federal District of Columbia. However, a number of executions were carried out under the District's jurisdiction before abolition. These executions should be distinguished from cases such as the 1942 execution of the six Nazi saboteurs which took place in the District, but under the jurisdiction of the Federal Government.\n\nBefore 1973, the District of Columbia was exclusively governed by the United States Congress, which included establishing all local laws. Until 1962, D.C. was the last jurisdiction in the United States with mandatory death sentences for first-degree murder (the last state with mandatory death sentences for first degree murder was Vermont). Mandatory death sentences were abolished by the HR5143 (PL87-423), signed into law by President John F. Kennedy on March 22, 1962. Rape was also a capital offense.\n\nThe D.C. capital punishment law was nullified by the United States Supreme Court decision in \"Furman v. Georgia\" in 1972 and formally repealed by the D.C. Council in 1981. In the 1992 Congress-ordered referendum, District residents voted against reinstating the death penalty (the District is a liberal stronghold which usually give at least 85% of its votes to the Democratic candidate in presidential elections). In 1997, Mayor Marion Barry proposed a bill allowing capital punishment for the murder of public safety employees, which was rejected by the Council's Judiciary Committee.\n\nThe first recorded execution in Washington, was the hanging of James McGirk in 1802. The last execution under the authority of the District took place in 1957, when Robert Carter was put to death by electrocution.\n\nHanging was the method of execution that had been used in the District until 1928, when it was replaced by the electric chair, last used in 1957. \n\nThe President of the United States has sole pardoning power in the District.\n"}
{"id": "1252057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252057", "title": "Carl Scarborough", "text": "Carl Scarborough\n\nCarl Scarborough (July 3, 1914 – May 30, 1953) was an American racecar driver. He died from heat exhaustion during the 1953 Indianapolis 500, a race in which several drivers experienced heat-related illness. The race was Scarborough's second entry in the Indianapolis 500. He had also been the national champion in both big car and midget car racing. After he died, race officials announced plans to inspect Indy 500 vehicles for suitable ventilation.\n\nScarborough was born in Benton, Illinois on July 3, 1914. Before his entries in the Indianapolis 500, he had participated in \"outlaw\" racing in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio. Early in his racing career, Scarborough sat out for two years after sustaining injuries as the passenger in a car crash. In 1946, Scarborough was the national midget car racing champion. He also won the national big car title that year, becoming the first driver named the Central States Racing Association national champion in both categories.\n\nWhile attempting to qualify for the 1951 Indianapolis 500, he ran the second fastest qualifying lap that had ever been recorded at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. He finished 18th in that race; within four years, eleven of the 35 men in the 1951 race's starting lineup had died, mostly in race-related incidents.\n\nScarborough started the 1953 Indianapolis 500 on the seventh row. He qualified for the race with an average speed of 135.936 miles per hour. During Scarborough's first pit stop, he felt sick from the heat and fumes at the race. After a fuel spill during the pit stop, a minor fire broke out involving the side of Scarborough's car. Scarborough climbed over the pit wall and collapsed onto a chair. Bob Scott replaced Scarborough on the track. Scott's own car had experienced mechanical difficulties early in the race. He finished the race for Scarborough in twelfth place.\n\nScarborough was taken to the speedway's hospital, where he died. His temperature was recorded as 104 degrees on admission to the hospital. Physicians there unsuccessfully performed open-heart massage before Scarborough was pronounced dead. The temperature was 91 degrees in Indianapolis that day; nine drivers were treated for heat-related illness. Driver Pat Flaherty suffered minor injuries when he fainted and crashed into a wall later in the race. The track temperature reached 130 degrees.\n\nScarborough was the second person to die at that year's event. Chet Miller died in a crash during a practice run before the official start of the race. \n\nAt the time of his death, Scarborough lived in Clarkston, Michigan with his wife and three children. He had been racing in some capacity for 18 years. After Scarborough's death, Indy 500 officials instituted a new rule that cars would be inspected to ensure adequate ventilation before the following year's race. Scarborough was elected to the Michigan Motor Sports Hall of Fame in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "277524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277524", "title": "Cass Elliot", "text": "Cass Elliot\n\nCass Elliot (born Ellen Naomi Cohen; September 19, 1941 – July 29, 1974), also known as Mama Cass, was an American singer and actress, best known as a member of the Mamas & the Papas. After the group broke up, she released five solo albums. In 1998 she was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame for her work with the Mamas & the Papas.\n\nEllen Naomi Cohen was born in Baltimore, Maryland, the daughter of Philip Cohen (d: 1962) and his wife Bess (née Levine, 1915–1994).\nBoth her parents were the children of Jewish immigrants from the Russian Empire. Elliot's family was subject to significant financial stresses and uncertainties during her childhood years. Her father, involved in several business ventures throughout his life, ultimately succeeded through the development of a lunch wagon business in Baltimore, providing meals to construction workers. Her mother was a trained nurse. Elliot had a brother Joseph and a younger sister Leah, professionally known as Leah Kunkel, who also became a singer and recording artist, as a member of the Coyote Sisters and also as a solo artist and background vocalist. Elliot's early life was spent with her family in Alexandria, Virginia, before the family moved to Baltimore, when Elliot was fifteen, and where they had briefly lived at the time of Elliot's birth.\n\nElliot adopted the name \"Cass\" in high school, possibly borrowing it from actress Peggy Cass, as Denny Doherty tells it. She assumed the surname Elliot some time later, in memory of a friend who had died. While in Alexandria, Virginia, Elliot attended George Washington High School, which Jim Morrison of the Doors also attended. When Elliot's family returned to Baltimore, she attended Forest Park High School.\n\nWhile attending Forest Park High School, Elliot became interested in acting. She won a small part in the play \"The Boy Friend\", a summer stock production at the Hilltop Theatre in Owings Mills, Maryland. She left high school shortly before graduation and moved to New York City to further her acting career (as recounted in the lyrics to \"Creeque Alley\").\n\nAfter leaving high school to pursue an entertainment career in New York, Elliot toured in the musical \"The Music Man\" in 1962, but lost the part of Miss Marmelstein in \"I Can Get It for You Wholesale\" to Barbra Streisand. Elliot would sometimes sing while working as a cloakroom attendant at The Showplace in Greenwich Village, but she did not pursue a singing career until she moved to the Washington, D.C. area to attend American University (not Swarthmore College, as mentioned in the biographical song \"Creeque Alley\").\n\nAmerica's folk music scene was on the rise when Elliot met banjoist and singer Tim Rose and singer John Brown, and the three began performing as the Triumvirate. In 1963, James Hendricks replaced Brown, and the trio was renamed the Big 3. Elliot's first recording with the Big 3 was \"Winkin', Blinkin', and Nod\", released by FM Records in 1963. In 1964, the group appeared on an \"open mic\" night at The Bitter End in Greenwich Village, billed as \"Cass Elliot and the Big 3\", followed onstage by folk singer Jim Fosso and bluegrass banjoist Eric Weissberg (who became famous eight years later for performing \"Dueling Banjos\" on the soundtrack for \"Deliverance\" (1972)).\n\nTim Rose left the Big 3 in 1964, and Elliot and Hendricks teamed with Canadians Zal Yanovsky and Denny Doherty to form the Mugwumps. This group lasted eight months, after which Cass performed as a solo act for a while. In the meantime, Yanovsky and John Sebastian co-founded the Lovin' Spoonful, while Doherty joined the New Journeymen, a group that also included John Phillips and his wife Michelle. In 1965, Doherty persuaded Phillips that Elliot should join the group, which she did while she and the group members were vacationing in the Virgin Islands.\n\nA popular legend about Elliot is that her vocal range was improved by three notes after she was hit on the head by some copper tubing while walking through a construction site behind the bar where the New Journeymen were playing in the Virgin Islands. Elliot confirmed the story in a 1968 interview with \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, saying,\n\nHowever, friends later said that the pipe story was a less embarrassing explanation for why John Phillips had kept her out of the group for so long, the real reason being that he considered her too fat.\n\nWith two female members, the New Journeymen needed a new name. According to Doherty, Elliot had the inspiration for the band's new name; as written on his website:\n\nDoherty also said that the occasion marked the beginning of his affair with Michelle Phillips. Elliot was in love with Doherty and was displeased when he told her of the affair. Doherty has said that Elliot once proposed to him, but that he was so stoned at the time that he could not even respond.\n\nElliot was known for her sense of humor and optimism, and was considered by some to be the most charismatic member of the group. Her powerful, distinctive voice was a major factor in their success. She is best remembered for her vocals on the group's hits \"California Dreamin'\", \"Monday, Monday\", \"Words of Love\", and the solo \"Dream a Little Dream of Me\", which the group recorded in 1968 after learning about the death of Fabian Andre, one of the men who co-wrote it, whom Michelle Phillips had met years earlier. Elliot's version is noteworthy for its contemplative pace, whereas almost all earlier recordings of \"Dream a Little Dream of Me\" (including one by Nat King Cole and another by Ozzie Nelson) had been up-tempo versions—the song having been written in 1931 as a dance tune.\n\nThe Mamas & the Papas continued to record to meet the terms of their record contract. Their final album was released in 1971.\n\nAfter the breakup of the Mamas & the Papas, Elliot embarked on a solo singing career. Her most successful recording during this period was 1968's \"Dream a Little Dream of Me\" from her solo album of the same name, released by Dunhill Records, though it had originally been released earlier that year on the album \"The Papas & the Mamas Presented By The Mamas and the Papas\".\n\nIn 1967, while staying in London, Elliot was prosecuted for stealing bedlinen from an apartment where she had been staying on an earlier visit. She denied responsibility and the case was brought before the West London magistrates' court, where the charges against her were dismissed in the absence of any evidence. The band had been forced to cancel concerts as a result of the incident. On a return visit to London, Elliot admitted to the audience at the London Palladium that she had taken two sheets, saying \"I liked 'em so I took 'em\". She said she had kept quiet because of the way she had been treated in police custody.\n\nIn October 1968, Elliot made her live solo debut headlining in Las Vegas at Caesars Palace, scheduled for a three-week engagement at $40,000 per week (US$ in dollars), with two shows per night. Elliot went on a six-month long crash diet before the show, losing 100 of her 300 pounds. According to Elliot, the weight loss led to a stomach ulcer and throat problems, which she treated by drinking milk and cream (and regaining 50 lbs. in the process).\n\nA nervous Elliot was confined to her bed for three weeks before the first performance, as the musical director, band, and production supervisor attempted to put together a show in her absence. She was scheduled to rehearse for a full three days before the show opened, but she managed to get through only part of one run-through with the band before saying that she was losing her voice. She skipped the remainder of rehearsals and drank tea and lemon, hoping to recover and pull herself together for opening night.\n\nAn audience of 950 people filled the Circus Maximus theatre at Caesar's Palace on the evening of Wednesday October 16, including Sammy Davis, Jr., Peter Lawford, and Jimi Hendrix. Joan Baez, Liza Minnelli, and Mia Farrow had sent flowers to Elliot's dressing room. But backstage, a shivering Elliot had developed a raging fever. Friends urged her manager to cancel the show, but she felt it was too important and insisted on performing. Sick and having barely rehearsed, Elliot began to fall apart during the course of her first performance: her voice was weak and barely audible, and the large crowd was unsympathetic, despite the celebrity well-wishers. At the end of the show, Elliot returned to the stage to apologize to the audience, stating, \"This is the first night, and it will get better\". She then sang \"Dream a Little Dream of Me\" and left the stage as the audience applauded half-heartedly. She returned later that night to perform the second show, but her voice was worse, and many of the audience noisily walked out.\n\nReviews were harsh. \"Esquire\" magazine called the show \"a disaster\" that was \"heroic in proportion, epic in scope.\" The \"Los Angeles Free Press\" called the show \"an embarrassing drag.\" \"Newsweek\" compared the show to the \"Titanic\" disaster: \"Like some great ocean liner embarking on an ill-fated maiden voyage, Mama Cass slid down the ways and sank to the bottom.\" The show closed after only one night, and Elliot flew back to Los Angeles for what was described as \"a tonsillectomy.\"\n\nWithin hours of the end of Elliot's Las Vegas concert, rumors began to spread that she had been taking drugs during the weeks leading up to it. Eddi Fiegel wrote in the biography \"Dream a Little Dream of Me\" that Elliot later admitted to a boyfriend that she had shot heroin immediately before going on stage. Embarrassed by the debacle, Elliot plunged into a deep depression.\n\nDavid Crosby published a memoir in 1988, saying the following about his use of heroin with Elliot:\nIt was always the bad drug, always the worst. It got a little more open around the time that Cass and I were doing it, but it wasn't something you told people [about]. It wasn't anything you bragged about, you know. ... Me and Cass Elliot were closet junk takers and used to get loaded with each other a lot. We loved London because there was pharmaceutical heroin available in drugstores [there]. ... Government [of the United Kingdom] dope, in these injectable tablets that you crushed and dissolved in order to shoot them. Me and Cass used to just mash them up and snort the powder. ... Cass took lots of pills, usually from the opiate family: Dilaudid, Demerol, Percodan, downers of all sorts, and we did a lot of coke together.\n\nElliot appeared in two television variety specials: \"The Mama Cass Television Show\" (ABC, 1969) and \"Don't Call Me Mama Anymore\" (CBS, 1973). She was a regular guest on TV talk shows and variety shows in the early 1970s, including \"The Mike Douglas Show\", \"The Andy Williams Show\", \"Hollywood Squares\", \"The Johnny Cash Show\", \"The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour\", and \"The Carol Burnett Show\", and was a guest panelist for a week on the game show \"Match Game '73\". She guest-hosted for Johnny Carson on \"The Tonight Show\" and appeared as a guest on the show 13 other times. She also appeared on and co-hosted \"The Music Scene\" on ABC and was featured on the first \"The Midnight Special\" on NBC.\n\nShe performed the title song \"The Good Times Are Comin'\" during the opening sequence of the 1970 film \"Monte Walsh\", starring Lee Marvin and Jack Palance. In 1972, she made three appearances on the variety series \"The Julie Andrews Hour\". Her final appearance on the show was the Christmas installment that aired on Wednesday, December 20, 1972. In December 1978, four years after Elliot's death, the episode was rebroadcast on syndicated stations as a Christmas special called \"Merry Christmas With Love, Julie\". However, all of Elliot's solos were deleted from the syndicated prints. In 2009, a complete videotape of \"The Julie Andrews Hour Christmas Show\" was donated to The Paley Center For Media in New York, with all of Elliot's numbers intact.\n\nIn 1973, Elliot performed in \"Saga of Sonora\", a TV music-comedy-western special with Jill St. John, Vince Edwards, Zero Mostel, and Lesley Ann Warren.\n\nShe also sang the jingle \"Hurry on down to Hardee's, where the burgers are charco-broiled\" for Hardee's advertisements.\n\nThroughout the early 1970s, Elliot continued her acting career, as well. She had a featured role in the movie \"Pufnstuf\" (1970) and made guest appearances on TV's \"The New Scooby-Doo Movies\", \"Young Dr. Kildare\", \"Love, American Style\", and \"The Red Skelton Show\", among others.\n\nIn 1973, Elliot hired as her manager Allan Carr, who was also managing the careers of Tony Curtis, Ann-Margret, and Peter Sellers. Carr felt Elliot needed to leave pop and rock music altogether and head into the cabaret circuit, so a show was put together comprising old standards along with a few new songs written for her by friends. The act included Elliot and two male singers who served as backup singers and sidekicks during the musical numbers. The title of the show was \"Don't Call Me Mama Anymore\", named after one of the songs written by Elliot's friend Earle Brown. The song was born out of Elliot's frustration with being identified as \"Mama Cass\".\n\nThe show debuted in Pittsburgh on February 9, 1973. Elliot felt ready to tackle Las Vegas once again and premiered at the Flamingo. This time, she received rave reviews. \"The Las Vegas Sun\" wrote, \"Cass Elliot, making a strong point that she is no longer Mama Cass, has a good act serving notice that she is here to stay. The audience was with her all the way... no empty seats anywhere.\" She then took her act to higher-echelon casinos and swankier nightclubs in cities throughout the country.\n\nElliot was married twice, the first time in 1963 to James Hendricks, her group mate in the Big 3 and the Mugwumps. This was reportedly a platonic arrangement to assist him in avoiding being drafted during the Vietnam War; the marriage reportedly was never consummated and was annulled in 1968. In 1971, Elliot married journalist Donald von Wiedenman, heir to a Bavarian barony. Their marriage ended in divorce after a few months.\n\nElliot gave birth to daughter Owen Vanessa Elliot on April 26, 1967. She never publicly identified the father, but many years later, Michelle Phillips helped Owen locate her biological father. When Chuck Day died in 2008, it was revealed that he was Owen's father. After Elliot's death, her younger sister, Leah Kunkel (then married to Los Angeles-based session drummer Russ Kunkel), received custody of Owen, then seven years old, and raised her along with her own son, Nathaniel. Owen grew up to become a singer as well and toured with Beach Boys member Al Jardine.\n\nOn April 22, 1974, Elliot collapsed in the Burbank, California television studio of \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" immediately before her scheduled appearance on the show. She was treated at a hospital and released, then dismissed the incident in interviews, including one on the American television talk show \"The Mike Douglas Show\", as simple exhaustion. Her appearance on that episode of \"The Mike Douglas Show\" turned out to be her last for television.\n\nIn July 1974, Elliot performed two weeks of concerts as a solo performer at the London Palladium. Many claimed that all of these shows were sold out, but she was often playing to a less-than-full house after the earliest dates. She made an international call to Michelle Phillips after the final concert on July 28. Phillips said later that Elliot sounded elated that she had received standing ovations each night.\n\nShe may have retired for the evening immediately after this telephone conversation, but Debbie Reynolds claimed in her 2013 book \"Unsinkable: A Memoir\" that she and her children, Carrie Fisher and Todd Fisher, saw Elliot at a party that night at the London home of Mick Jagger. Reynolds noticed that when Elliot left the party saying she was headed to where she was staying, she was not accompanied by anyone.\n\nThat night, Elliot, age 32, died in her sleep at the London flat where she was staying. According to forensic pathologist Keith Simpson, who conducted her autopsy, her death was due to heart failure. A drug screen that was part of the forensic autopsy revealed there were no drugs in her system. Elliot died in Flat 12, 9 Curzon Place (later Curzon Square), Shepherd Market, Mayfair, London, which was on loan from singer-songwriter Harry Nilsson. Four years later, The Who's drummer Keith Moon died in the same room, also aged 32 years. Elliot was buried in Mount Sinai Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles, California.\n\nAn oft-repeated urban legend is that Elliot choked to death on a ham sandwich. The story spread soon after the discovery of her body and was based on speculation in the initial media coverage. A 2014 article in \"Haaretz\" identified the person who started the false rumor as follows: \"Unfortunately, the first doctor [in London] who examined her speculated to the press about the cause of death, and that’s the version that stuck.\" An autopsy had not been performed when the physician was quoted, and London police told reporters that a partially eaten sandwich found in her room might have been relevant to the cause of death. The post-mortem found that Elliot had died of heart failure, and no food was present in her windpipe, yet the false story has persisted ever since.\n\nThe City of Baltimore dedicated August 15, 1973 as \"Cass Elliot Day\" in her honor for her homecoming.\n\nIn the movie \"Austin Powers, International Man of Mystery\", Austin checks the list of the people he knew, mentioning Mama Cass along with Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin, crossing her name out with remark \"deceased, ham sandwich\".\n\nThe British play and film \"Beautiful Thing\" feature her recordings, and one character reflects on her memories of Elliot.\nElliot was the subject of a 2004 stage production in Dublin, \"The Songs of Mama Cass\", with Kristin Kapelli performing main vocals.\n\nThe name “Mama Cass” is mentioned at the end of the 2009 film “The Proposal”\n\nThe song \"Mama, I Remember You Now\" by the Swedish artist Marit Bergman is a tribute to Elliot.\n\nThe Frank Zappa song \"We're Turning Again\" references the urban legend of Cass choking to death. \"We can visit Big Mama, we can whap her on the back, while she eats her sandwich!\"\n\nTISM song '(He'll Never Be An) Ol' Man River' cites her conjectured cause of death among a catalogue of other famous \"bad ends\" from the history of popular music: \"Mama Cass's sandwich, I ate the same!\".\n\nThe Crosby, Stills & Nash \"Daylight Again\" video released in 1982 was dedicated to Cass Elliot.\n\nThe Crosby, Stills & Nash \"Greatest Hits\" album released in 2005 was dedicated to Cass Elliot.\n\nElliot's recording of \"Make Your Own Kind of Music\" is featured prominently in several episodes of seasons 2 and 3 of \"Lost\" as well as season 8, episodes 2 and 9 of \"Dexter\" (the later one also uses the title as the episode's title). Her recording of \"It's Getting Better\" was featured in a season 4 episode of \"Lost.\" She also provided the voice for her appearance on a 1973 episode of the New Scooby Doo Movies, \"The Haunted Candy Factory\".\n\n\n\n\n\"-\" indicates the album did not chart or was not released in that territory.\n\nSoundtracks\n\n"}
{"id": "43199290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43199290", "title": "Causal layered analysis", "text": "Causal layered analysis\n\nCausal layered analysis (CLA) is a technique used in strategic planning and futures studies to more effectively shape the future. The technique was pioneered by Sohail Inayatullah, a Pakistani-Australian futures studies researcher.\n\nCausal layered analysis works by identifying many different levels, and attempting to make synchronized changes at all levels to create a coherent new future. Inayatullah's original paper as well as his TEDx talk identify four levels:\n\n\nCLA was first introduced explicitly as a futures research technique by Sohail Inayatullah in a 1998 article for \"Futures\" that would come to be widely cited. Later, Inayatullah would edit the CLA Reader, that featured chapters from a number of futurists and practitioners describing their experience with CLA.\n\nInayatullah's work on CLA was examined in a book by Jose W. Ramos in 2003.\n\nA 2008 article by Chris Riedy examined the similarities, differences, and possible combinations of CLA and Ken Wilber's integral theory.\n\nA 2010 article by Gary P. Hampson explored the relationship between integral futures and CLA further, and also considered Richard Slaughter's critique of CLA.\n\nSohail Inayatullah and Ivana Milojevic have published an update in 2015. With various authors, they investigate topics such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "44703240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44703240", "title": "Conrad Adriaenssens", "text": "Conrad Adriaenssens\n\nConrad Adriaenssens (born 20 February 1871, date of death unknown) was a Belgian sports shooter. He competed at the 1920 Summer Olympics and the 1924 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "54087464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54087464", "title": "Controversies about labeling terrorism", "text": "Controversies about labeling terrorism\n\nMany definitions of terrorism exist, but there is no consensus on a single, universal definition. For example, Kydd and Walter define terrorism as \"the use of violence against civilians by non-state actors to attain political goals.\" The US Department of State defines terrorism as \"premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents.\" On the other hand, the FBI's Code of Federal Regulations defines terrorism as \"The unlawful use of force and violence against persons or property to intimidate or coerce a government, civilian population, or any segment thereof, in furtherance of political or social objectives. The lack of a universal definition of terrorism has led to controversies, making it sometimes difficult to label a certain attack as a terrorist incident. For example, Tarik Kafala, head of BBC Arabic insists journalists must stop using the term \"terrorist\", because it is a \"value-laden\" term. Furthermore, there have been controversies, such as Obama's refusal to use the phrase, \"Islamic terrorism\", with political implications.\n\nThere are several problems with the definition of terrorism.\n\n\"No universally accepted definition\"\n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of terrorism. In his paper, \"Defining Terrorism: Is One Man's Terrorist Another Man's Freedom Fighter?\", Boaz Ganor points out the urgency of an internationally accepted definition of terrorism due to the ambiguousness of the term. Even within the country of the United States, the US Department of State and the FBI have different definitions of terrorism, which can lead one institute to classify an event as terrorist while another does not.\n\n\"Vague wording\"\n\nAnother issue with the definition of terrorism is its vague wording. Navin Bapat, a professor of political science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and expert on terrorist campaigns, points out the subjective nature of words used in definitions of terrorism, such as \"non-combatant\" and \"political purposes\". The subjectivity of such words allows for dispute over whether a group is or is not terrorist, as questions such as the degree to which the attack was pre-meditated, the degree to which a subnational group was involved with the premeditation of the attack, or the definition of a \"non-combatant\" and what ideologies are considered \"political\" may arise.\n\n\"Examples\"\n\nSteve Biko was a South African anti-apartheid activist who believed that some violence against whites was inevitable while apartheid remained in place. He was a leading figure of the South African Students' Organization, and participated in founding the Black People's Convention. According to many definitions of terrorism, including the US Department of State and Kydd & Walter as well as the Terrorism Act of South Africa at the time, Steve Biko's activities qualified as terrorism. Steve Biko was arrested under the South African Terrorism Act, and died while in custody. Today, Steve Biko is appraised as a hero - <nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "276872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276872", "title": "Critical thinking", "text": "Critical thinking\n\nCritical thinking is the objective analysis of facts to form a judgment. The subject is complex, and several different definitions exist, which generally include the rational, skeptical, unbiased analysis, or evaluation of factual evidence. Critical thinking is self-directed, self-disciplined, self-monitored, and self-corrective thinking. It presupposed assent to rigorous standards of excellence and mindful command to their use. It entails effective communication and problem-solving abilities, as well as a commitment to overcome our native egocentrism and sociocentrism.\n\nThe earliest documentation of critical thinking are the teachings of Socrates recorded by Plato. Socrates established the fact that one cannot depend upon those in \"authority\" to have sound knowledge and insight. He demonstrated that persons may have power and high position and yet be deeply confused and irrational. He established the importance of asking deep questions that probe profoundly into thinking before we accept ideas as worthy of belief.\n\nHe established the importance of seeking evidence, closely examining reasoning and assumptions, analyzing basic concepts, and tracing out implications not only of what is said but of what is done as well. His method of questioning is now known as \"Socratic Questioning\" and is the best known critical thinking teaching strategy. In his mode of questioning, Socrates highlighted the need for thinking for clarity and logical consistency. Socrates asked people questions to reveal their irrational thinking or lack of reliable knowledge. Socrates demonstrated that having authority does not ensure accurate knowledge. He established the method of questioning beliefs, closely inspecting assumptions and relying on evidence and sound rationale. Plato recorded Socrates' teachings and carried on the tradition of critical thinking. Aristotle and subsequent Greek skeptics refined Socrates' teachings, using systematic thinking and asking questions to ascertain the true nature of reality beyond the way things appear from a glance.\n\nSocrates set the agenda for the tradition of critical thinking, namely, to reflectively question common beliefs and explanations, carefully distinguishing beliefs that are reasonable and logical from those that—however appealing to our native egocentrism, however much they serve our vested interests, however comfortable or comforting they may be—lack adequate evidence or rational foundation to warrant belief.\n\nCritical thinking was described by Richard W. Paul as a movement in two waves (1994). The \"first wave\" of critical thinking is often referred to as \na 'critical analysis' that is clear, rational thinking involving critique. Its details vary amongst those who define it. According to Barry K. Beyer (1995), critical thinking means making clear, reasoned judgments. During the process of critical thinking, ideas should be reasoned, well thought out, and judged. The U.S. National Council for Excellence in Critical Thinking defines critical thinking as the \"<nowiki>intellectually disciplined process of actively and skillfully conceptualizing, applying, analyzing, synthesizing, or evaluating information gathered from, or generated by, observation, experience, reflection, reasoning, or communication, as a guide to belief and action.</nowiki>\"\n\nIn the term critical thinking, the word \"critical\", (Grk. κριτικός = \"kritikos\" = \"critic\") derives from the word critic and implies a critique; it identifies the intellectual capacity and the means \"of judging\", \"of judgement\", \"for judging\", and of being \"able to discern\". The intellectual roots of critical thinking are as \"ancient\" as its etymology, traceable, ultimately, to the teaching practice and vision of Socrates 2,500 years ago who discovered by a method of probing questioning that people could not rationally justify their confident claims to knowledge.\n\nTraditionally, critical thinking has been variously defined as follows:\n\nContemporary critical thinking scholars have expanded these traditional definitions to include qualities, concepts, and processes such as creativity, imagination, discovery, reflection, empathy, connecting knowing, feminist theory, subjectivity, ambiguity, and inconclusiveness. Some definitions of critical thinking exclude these subjective practices.\n\nThe ability to reason logically is a fundamental skill of rational agents, hence the study of the form of correct argumentation is relevant to the study of critical thinking.\n\n\"First wave\" logical thinking consisted of understanding the connections between two concepts or points in thought. It followed a philosophy where the thinker was removed from the train of thought and the connections and the analysis of the connect was devoid of any bias of the thinker. Kerry Walters describes this ideology in his essay Beyond Logicism in Critical Thinking, \"A logistic approach to critical thinking conveys the message to students that thinking is legitimate only when it conforms to the procedures of informal (and, to a lesser extent, formal) logic and that the good thinker necessarily aims for styles of examination and appraisal that are analytical, abstract, universal, and objective. This model of thinking has become so entrenched in conventional academic wisdom that many educators accept it as canon\". The adoption of these principals parallels themselves with the increasing reliance on a quantitative understanding of the world.\n\nIn the ‘second wave’ of critical thinking, as defined by Kerry S. Walters (Re-thinking Reason, 1994, p. 1), many authors moved away from the logocentric mode of critical thinking that the ‘first wave’ privileged, especially in institutions of higher learning. Walters summarizes logicism as \"the unwarranted assumption that good thinking is reducible to logical thinking\".\n\n\"A logistic approach to critical thinking conveys the message to students that thinking is legitimate only when it conforms to the procedures of informal (and, to a lesser extent, formal) logic and that the good thinker necessarily aims for styles of examination and appraisal that are analytical, abstract, universal, and objective.\"\nAs the ‘second wave’ took hold, scholars began to take a more inclusive view of what constituted as critical thinking. Rationality and logic are still widely accepted in many circles as the primary examples of critical thinking.\n\nThere are three types of logical reasoning Informally, two kinds of logical reasoning can be distinguished in addition to formal deduction: induction and abduction.\n e.g., X is human and all humans have a face so X has a face.\n e.g., The sum of even integers is even.\n e.g., I observe sheep in a field, and they appear white from my viewing angle, so sheep are white.\nKerry S. Walters (Re-thinking Reason, 1994) argues that rationality demands more than just logical or traditional methods of problem solving and analysis or what he calls the \"calculus of justification\" but also considers \"cognitive acts such as imagination, conceptual creativity, intuition and insight\" (p. 63). These \"functions\" are focused on discovery, on more abstract processes instead of linear, rules-based approaches to problem-solving. The linear and non-sequential mind must both be engaged in the rational mind.\n\nThe ability to critically analyze an argument – to dissect structure and components, thesis and reasons – is essential. But so is the ability to be flexible and consider non-traditional alternatives and perspectives. These complementary functions are what allow for critical thinking to be a practice encompassing imagination and intuition in cooperation with traditional modes of deductive inquiry.\n\nThe list of core critical thinking skills includes observation, interpretation, analysis, inference, evaluation, explanation, and metacognition. According to Reynolds (2011), an individual or group engaged in a strong way of critical thinking gives due consideration to establish for instance:\n\nIn addition to possessing strong critical-thinking skills, one must be disposed to engage problems and decisions using those skills. Critical thinking employs not only logic but broad intellectual criteria such as clarity, credibility, accuracy, precision, relevance, depth, breadth, significance, and fairness.\n\nCritical thinking calls for the ability to:\n\nIn sum:\n\n\"A persistent effort to examine any belief or supposed form of knowledge in the light of the evidence that supports or refutes it and the further conclusions to which it tends.\"\n\nThe habits of mind that characterize a person strongly disposed toward critical thinking include a desire to follow reason and evidence wherever they may lead, a systematic approach to problem solving, inquisitiveness, even-handedness, and confidence in reasoning.\n\nAccording to a definition analysis by Kompf & Bond (2001), critical thinking involves problem solving, decision making, metacognition, rationality, rational thinking, reasoning, knowledge, intelligence and also a moral component such as reflective thinking. Critical thinkers therefore need to have reached a level of maturity in their development, possess a certain attitude as well as a set of taught skills.\n\nEdward M. Glaser proposed that the ability to think critically involves three elements:\n\nEducational programs aimed at developing critical thinking in children and adult learners, individually or in group problem solving and decision making contexts, continue to address these same three central elements.\n\nThe Critical Thinking project at Human Science Lab, London, is involved in scientific study of all major educational system in prevalence today to assess how the systems are working to promote or impede critical thinking.\n\nContemporary cognitive psychology regards human reasoning as a complex process that is both reactive and reflective.\n\nThe relationship between critical thinking skills and critical thinking dispositions is an empirical question. Some people have both in abundance, some have skills but not the disposition to use them, some are disposed but lack strong skills, and some have neither. A measure of critical thinking dispositions is the California Measure of Mental Motivation and the California Critical Thinking Dispositions Inventory. The CriTT is an alternative measure that examines student beliefs and attitudes about critical thinking\n\nJohn Dewey is one of many educational leaders who recognized that a curriculum aimed at building thinking skills would benefit the individual learner, the community, and the entire democracy.\n\nCritical thinking is significant in academics due to being significant in learning. Critical thinking is significant in the learning process of internalization, in the construction of basic ideas, principles, and theories inherent in content. And critical thinking is significant in the learning process of application, whereby those ideas, principles, and theories are implemented effectively as they become relevant in learners' lives.\n\nEach discipline adapts its use of critical thinking concepts and principles. The core concepts are always there, but they are embedded in subject-specific content. For students to learn content, intellectual engagement is crucial. All students must do their own thinking, their own construction of knowledge. Good teachers recognize this and therefore focus on the questions, readings, activities that stimulate the mind to take ownership of key concepts and principles underlying the subject.\n\nHistorically, teaching of critical thinking focused only on logical procedures such as formal and informal logic. This emphasized to students that good thinking is equivalent to logical thinking. However, a second wave of critical thinking, urges educators to value conventional techniques, meanwhile expanding what it means to be a critical thinker. In 1994, Kerry Walters compiled a conglomeration of sources surpassing this logical restriction to include many different authors’ research regarding connected knowing, empathy, gender-sensitive ideals, collaboration, world views, intellectual autonomy, morality and enlightenment. These concepts invite students to incorporate their own perspectives and experiences into their thinking.\n\nIn the English and Welsh school systems, \"Critical Thinking\" is offered as a subject that 16- to 18-year-olds can take as an A-Level. Under the OCR exam board, students can sit two exam papers for the AS: \"Credibility of Evidence\" and \"Assessing and Developing Argument\". The full Advanced GCE is now available: in addition to the two AS units, candidates sit the two papers \"Resolution of Dilemmas\" and \"Critical Reasoning\". The A-level tests candidates on their ability to think critically about, and analyze, arguments on their deductive or inductive validity, as well as producing their own arguments. It also tests their ability to analyze certain related topics such as credibility and ethical decision-making. However, due to its comparative lack of subject content, many universities do not accept it as a main A-level for admissions. Nevertheless, the AS is often useful in developing reasoning skills, and the full Advanced GCE is useful for degree courses in politics, philosophy, history or theology, providing the skills required for critical analysis that are useful, for example, in biblical study.\n\nThere used to also be an Advanced Extension Award offered in Critical Thinking in the UK, open to any A-level student regardless of whether they have the Critical Thinking A-level. Cambridge International Examinations have an A-level in Thinking Skills.\n\nFrom 2008, Assessment and Qualifications Alliance has also been offering an A-level Critical Thinking specification.\n\nOCR exam board have also modified theirs for 2008. Many examinations for university entrance set by universities, on top of A-level examinations, also include a critical thinking component, such as the LNAT, the UKCAT, the BioMedical Admissions Test and the Thinking Skills Assessment.\n\nIn Qatar, critical thinking was offered by AL-Bairaq—an outreach, non-traditional educational program that targets high school students and focuses on a curriculum based on STEM fields. The idea behind AL-Bairaq is to offer high school students the opportunity to connect with the research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Faculty members train and mentor the students and help develop and enhance their critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills.\n\nIn 1995, a meta-analysis of the literature on teaching effectiveness in higher education was undertaken.\nThe study noted concerns from higher education, politicians, and business that higher education was failing to meet society's requirements for well-educated citizens. It concluded that although faculty may aspire to develop students' thinking skills, in practice they have tended to aim at facts and concepts utilizing lowest levels of cognition, rather than developing intellect or values.\n\nIn a more recent meta-analysis, researchers reviewed 341 quasi- or true-experimental studies, all of which used some form of standardized critical thinking measure to assess the outcome variable. The authors describe the various methodological approaches and attempt to categorize the differing assessment tools, which include standardized tests (and second-source measures), tests developed by teachers, tests developed by researchers, and tests developed by teachers who also serve the role as the researcher. The results emphasized the need for exposing students to real-world problems and the importance in encouraging open dialogue within a supportive environment. Effective strategies for teaching critical thinking are thought to be possible in a wide variety of educational settings. One attempt to assess the humanities' role in teaching critical thinking and reducing belief in pseudoscientific claims was made at North Carolina State University. Some success was noted and the researchers emphasized the value of the humanities in providing the skills to evaluate current events and qualitative data in context.\n\nScott Lilienfeld notes that there is some evidence to suggest that basic critical thinking skills might be successfully taught to children at a younger age than previously thought.\n\nCritical thinking is an important element of all professional fields and academic disciplines (by referencing their respective sets of permissible questions, evidence sources, criteria, etc.). Within the framework of scientific skepticism, the process of critical thinking involves the careful acquisition and interpretation of information and use of it to reach a well-justified conclusion. The concepts and principles of critical thinking can be applied to any context or case but only by reflecting upon the nature of that application. Critical thinking forms, therefore, a system of related, and overlapping, modes of thought such as anthropological thinking, sociological thinking, historical thinking, political thinking, psychological thinking, philosophical thinking, mathematical thinking, chemical thinking, biological thinking, ecological thinking, legal thinking, ethical thinking, musical thinking, thinking like a painter, sculptor, engineer, business person, etc. In other words, though critical thinking principles are universal, their application to disciplines requires a process of reflective contextualization.\n\nCritical thinking is considered important in the academic fields because it enables one to analyze, evaluate, explain, and restructure their thinking, thereby decreasing the risk of adopting, acting on, or thinking with, a false belief. However, even with knowledge of the methods of logical inquiry and reasoning, mistakes can happen due to a thinker's inability to apply the methods or because of character traits such as egocentrism. Critical thinking includes identification of prejudice, bias, propaganda, self-deception, distortion, misinformation, etc. Given research in cognitive psychology, some educators believe that schools should focus on teaching their students critical thinking skills and cultivation of intellectual traits.\n\nCritical thinking skills can be used to help nurses during the assessment process. Through the use of critical thinking, nurses can question, evaluate, and reconstruct the nursing care process by challenging the established theory and practice. Critical thinking skills can help nurses problem solve, reflect, and make a conclusive decision about the current situation they face. Critical thinking creates \"new possibilities for the development of the nursing knowledge.\" Due to the sociocultural, environmental, and political issues that are affecting healthcare delivery, it would be helpful to embody new techniques in nursing. Nurses can also engage their critical thinking skills through the Socratic method of dialogue and reflection. This practice standard is even part of some regulatory organizations such as the College of Nurses of Ontario – Professional Standards for Continuing Competencies (2006).\nIt requires nurses to engage in Reflective Practice and keep records of this continued professional development for possible review by the College.\n\nCritical thinking is also considered important for human rights education for toleration. The Declaration of Principles on Tolerance adopted by UNESCO in 1995 affirms that \"education for tolerance could aim at countering factors that lead to fear and exclusion of others, and could help young people to develop capacities for independent judgement, \"critical thinking\" and ethical reasoning.\"\n\nCritical thinking is used as a way of deciding whether a claim is true, partially true, or false. It is a tool by which one can come about reasoned conclusions based on a reasoned process.\n\nThe advent and rising popularity of online courses has prompted some to ask if computer-mediated communication (CMC) promotes, hinders, or has no effect on the amount and quality of critical thinking in a course (relative to face-to-face communication). There is some evidence to suggest a fourth, more nuanced possibility: that CMC may promote some aspects of critical thinking but hinder others. For example, Guiller et al. (2008) found that, relative to face-to-face discourse, online discourse featured more justifications, while face-to-face discourse featured more instances of students expanding on what others had said. The increase in justifications may be due to the asynchronous nature of online discussions, while the increase in expanding comments may be due to the spontaneity of ‘real time’ discussion. Newman et al. (1995) showed similar differential effects. They found that while CMC boasted more important statements and linking of ideas, it lacked novelty. The authors suggest that this may be due to difficulties participating in a brainstorming-style activity in an asynchronous environment. Rather, the asynchrony may promote users to put forth “considered, thought out contributions.”\n\nResearchers assessing critical thinking in online discussion forums often employ a technique called Content Analysis, where the text of online discourse (or the transcription of face-to-face discourse) is systematically coded for different kinds of statements relating to critical thinking. For example, a statement might be coded as “Discuss ambiguities to clear them up” or “Welcoming outside knowledge” as positive indicators of critical thinking. Conversely, statements reflecting poor critical thinking may be labeled as “Sticking to prejudice or assumptions” or “Squashing attempts to bring in outside knowledge.” The frequency of these codes in CMC and face-to-face discourse can be compared to draw conclusions about the quality of critical thinking.\n\nSearching for evidence of critical thinking in discourse has roots in a definition of critical thinking put forth by Kuhn (1991), which emphasizes the social nature of discussion and knowledge construction. There is limited research on the role of social experience in critical thinking development, but there is some evidence to suggest it is an important factor. For example, research has shown that 3- to 4-year-old children can discern, to some extent, the differential creditability and expertise of individuals. Further evidence for the impact of social experience on the development of critical thinking skills comes from work that found that 6- to 7-year-olds from China have similar levels of skepticism to 10- and 11-year-olds in the United States. If the development of critical thinking skills was solely due to maturation, it is unlikely we would see such dramatic differences across cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "13466165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466165", "title": "Duration (philosophy)", "text": "Duration (philosophy)\n\nDuration (French: \"la durée\") is a theory of time and consciousness posited by the French philosopher Henri Bergson. Bergson sought to improve upon inadequacies he perceived in the philosophy of Herbert Spencer, due, he believed, to Spencer's lack of comprehension of mechanics, which led Bergson to the conclusion that time eluded mathematics and science. Bergson became aware that the moment one attempted to measure a moment, it would be gone: one measures an immobile, complete line, whereas time is mobile and incomplete. For the individual, time may speed up or slow down, whereas, for science, it would remain the same. Hence Bergson decided to explore the inner life of man, which is a kind of duration, neither a unity nor a quantitative multiplicity. Duration is ineffable and can only be shown indirectly through images that can never reveal a complete picture. It can only be grasped through a simple intuition of the imagination.\n\nBergson first introduced his notion of duration in his essay \"Time and Free Will: An Essay on the Immediate Data of Consciousness\". It is used as a defense of free will in a response to Immanuel Kant, who believed free will was only possible outside time and space.\n\nZeno of Elea believed reality was an uncreated and indestructible immobile whole. He formulated four paradoxes to present mobility as an impossibility. We can never, he said, move past a single point because each point is infinitely divisible, and it is impossible to cross an infinite space. But to Bergson, the problem only arises when mobility and time, that is, duration, are mistaken for the spatial line that underlies them. Time and mobility are mistakenly treated as things, not progressions. They are treated retrospectively as a thing's spatial trajectory, which can be divided \"ad infinitum\", whereas they are, in fact, an indivisible whole.\n\nBergson’s response to Kant is that free will is possible within a duration within which time resides. Free will is not really a problem but merely a common confusion among philosophers caused by the immobile time of science. To measure duration (\"durée\"), it must be translated into the immobile, spatial time (\"temps\") of science, a translation of the unextended into the extended. It is through this translation that the problem of free will arises. Since space is a homogeneous, quantitative multiplicity, duration becomes juxtaposed and converted into a succession of distinct parts, one coming after the other and therefore \"caused\" by one another. Nothing within a duration can be the cause of anything else within it. Hence determinism, the belief everything is determined by a prior cause, is an impossibility. One must accept time as it really is through placing oneself within duration where freedom can be identified and experienced as pure mobility.\n\nIn \"An Introduction to Metaphysics\", Bergson presents three images of duration. The first is of two spools, one unrolling to represent the continuous flow of ageing as one feels oneself moving toward the end of one's life-span, the other rolling up to represent the continuous growth of memory which, for Bergson, equals consciousness. No two successive moments are identical, for the one will always contain the memory left by the other. A person with no memory might experience two identical moments but, Bergson says, that person's consciousness would thus be in a constant state of death and rebirth, which he identifies with unconsciousness. The image of two spools, however, is of a homogeneous and commensurable thread, whereas, according to Bergson, no two moments can be the same, hence duration is heterogeneous.\n\nBergson then presents the image of a spectrum of a thousand gradually changing shades with a line of feeling running through them, being both affected by and maintaining each of the shades. Yet even this image is inaccurate and incomplete, for it represents duration as a fixed and complete spectrum with all the shades spatially juxtaposed, whereas duration is incomplete and continuously growing, its states not beginning or ending but intermingling.\n\nEven this image is incomplete, because the wealth of colouring is forgotten when it is invoked. But as the three images illustrate, it can be stated that duration is qualitative, unextended, multiple yet a unity, mobile and continuously interpenetrating itself. Yet these concepts put side-by-side can never adequately represent duration itself;\n\n\"The truth is we change without ceasing...there is no essential difference between passing from one state to another and persisting in the same state. If the state which \"remains the same\" is more varied than we think, [then] on the other hand the passing of one state to another resembles—more than we imagine—a single state being prolonged: the transition is continuous. Just because we close our eyes to the unceasing variation of every physical state, we are obliged when the change has become so formidable as to force itself on our attention, to speak as if a new state were placed alongside the previous one. Of this new state we assume that it remains unvarying in its turn and so on endlessly.\"\nBecause a qualitative multiplicity is heterogeneous and yet interpenetrating, it cannot be adequately represented by a symbol; indeed, for Bergson, a qualitative multiplicity is inexpressible. Thus, to grasp duration, one must reverse habitual modes of thought and place oneself within duration by intuition.\n\nBergson’s ideas concerning the philosophy of time were somewhat rediscovered after a paper \non Zeno’s paradox was published in \"Foundations of Physics Letters\" and generated interest in 2003. The writer, Peter Lynds, was credited with producing an original new insight. However, it was noted in a journal article shortly after that the ideas in this paper were preceded by Henri Bergson, evidently unbeknownst to Lynds or his paper's referees.\n\n"}
{"id": "23616040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23616040", "title": "Enantiopure drug", "text": "Enantiopure drug\n\nAn enantiopure drug is a pharmaceutical that is available in one specific enantiomeric form. Most biological molecules (proteins, sugars, etc.) are present in only one of many chiral forms, so different enantiomers of a chiral drug molecule bind differently (or not at all) to target receptors. One enantiomer of a drug may have a desired beneficial effect while the other may cause serious and undesired side effects, or sometimes even beneficial but entirely different effects.\nAdvances in industrial chemical processes have made it economical for pharmaceutical manufacturers to take drugs that were originally marketed as a racemic mixture and market the individual enantiomers, either by specifically manufacturing the desired enantiomer or by resolving a racemic mixture. On a case-by-case basis, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has allowed single enantiomers of certain drugs to be marketed under a different name than the racemic mixture. Also case-by-case, the United States Patent Office has granted patents for single enantiomers of certain drugs. The regulatory review for marketing approval (safety and efficacy) and for patenting (proprietary rights) is independent, and differs country by country.\n\n\"Selectivity\" is a very important part of organic synthesis. In scientific papers regarding synthesis, selectivity is often listed in data tables alongside percent yield and other reaction conditions. While selectivity is deemed important in scientific literature, it has been challenging to effectively implement selectivity in drug development and production. A major issue with selectivity in pharmaceuticals is that a large percentage of drug syntheses by nature are not selective reactions, racemic mixtures are formed as the products. Separating racemic mixtures into their respective enantiomers takes extra time, money, and energy. One way to separate enantiomers is to chemically convert them into species that can be separated: diastereomers. Diastereomers, unlike enantiomers, have entirely different physical properties—boiling points, melting points, NMR shifts, solubilities—and they can be separated by conventional means such as chromatography or recrystallization. This is a whole extra step in the synthesis process and not desirable from a manufacturing standpoint. As a result, a number of pharmaceuticals are synthesized and marketed as a racemic mixture of enantiomers in cases where the less-effective enantiomer is benign. However, by identifying and specifically purifying the enantiomer which effectively binds to its respective binding site in the body, less of the drug would be needed to achieve the desired effect.\n\nAccording to the FDA, the stereoisomeric composition of a chiral drug should be known, and its effects should be well-characterized from pharmacologic, toxicologic, and clinical standpoints. In order to profile the different stereoisomers of enantiopure drugs, manufacturers are urged to develop quantitative assays for individual enantiomers in \"in vivo\" samples early in the development stage.\n\nIdeally, the main pharmacologic activities of the isomers should be compared in \"in vitro\" systems in animals. During instances when toxic findings are present beyond the natural extensions of the pharmacologic effects of the drug, toxicologic evaluation of the individual isomers in question must be completed.\n\nWhen drugs are covered under patent protection, only the pharmaceutical company that holds the patent is allowed to manufacture, market, and eventually profit from them. The lifetime of the patent varies between countries and also between drugs; in the United States, most drug patents last about twenty years. Once the patent has expired, the drug can be manufactured and sold by other companies - at which point, it is referred to as a generic drug. Its availability on the market as a generic drug removes the monopoly of the patent holder, thereby encouraging competition and causing a significant drop in drug prices, which ensures that life-saving and important drugs reach the general population at fair prices. However, the company holding the initial patent may get a new patent by forming a new version of the drug that is significantly changed compared to the original compound. Patentability of different isomers has been controversial over the past ten years and there have been a number of related legal issues. In making their determinations, courts have looked at factors including: (i) whether the racemate was known in the prior art; (ii) the difficulty in resolving the enantiomer; (iii) the stereoselectivity of the relevant receptor; and (iv) other secondary considerations of non-obviousness such as commercial success, unexpected results, and satisfaction of long-felt needs in the art. The decisions made regarding these issues have varied and there is no clear answer to the legality of patenting stereoisomers. These issues have been resolved on a case-by-case basis. With the number of current pharmaceuticals currently being marketed as racemic mixtures, it is likely that patentability will continue to be debated in the near future.\n\nThe following table lists pharmaceuticals that have been available in both racemic and single-enantiomer form.\n\nThe following are cases where the individual enantiomers have markedly different effects:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35038842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35038842", "title": "Formate-nitrite transporter", "text": "Formate-nitrite transporter\n\nThe Formate-Nitrite Transporter (FNT) Family belongs to the Major Intrinsic Protein (MIP) Superfamily. FNT family members have been sequenced from Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, archaea, yeast, plants and lower eukaryotes. The prokaryotic proteins of the FNT family probably function in the transport of the structurally related compounds, formate and nitrite.\n\nWith the exception of the yeast protein (627 amino acyl residues), all characterized members of the family are of 256-285 residues in length and exhibit 6-8 putative transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs). In one case, that of the \"E. coli\" FocA (TC# 1.A.16.1.1) protein, a 6 TMS topology has been established. The yeast protein has a similar apparent topology but has a large C-terminal hydrophilic extension of about 400 residues.\n\nFocA of \"E. coli\" is a symmetriv pentamer, with each subunit consisting of six TMSs.\n\nThe phylogenetic tree shows clustering according to function and organismal phylogeny. The putative formate efflux transporters (FocA; TC#s 1.A.16.1.1 and 1.A.16.1.3) of bacteria associated with pyruvate-formate lyase (pfl) comprise cluster I; the putative formate uptake permeases (FdhC; TC#s 1.A.16.2.1 and 1.A.16.2.3) of bacteria and archaea associated with formate dehydrogenase comprise cluster II; the nitrite uptake permeases (NirC, TC#s 1.A.16.2.5, 1.A.16.3.1, and 1.A.16.3.4) of bacteria comprise cluster III, and a yeast protein comprises cluster IV.\n\nThe energy coupling mechanisms for proteins of the FNT family have not been extensively characterized. HCO and NO uptakes may be coupled to H symport. HCO efflux may be driven by the membrane potential by a uniport mechanism or by H antiport. FocA of \"E. coli\" catalyzes bidirectional formate transport and may function by a channel-type mechanism.\n\nFocA, transports short-chain acids. FocA may be able to switch its mode of operation from a passive export channel at high external pH to a secondary active formate/H+ importer at low pH. The crystal structure of \"Salmonella typhimurium\" FocA at pH 4.0 shows that this switch involves a major rearrangement of the amino termini of individual protomers in the pentameric channel. The amino-terminal helices open or block transport in a concerted, cooperative action that indicates how FocA is gated in a pH-dependent way. Electrophysiological studies show that the protein acts as a specific formate channel at pH 7.0 and that it closes upon a shift of pH to 5.1.\n\nThe probable transport reactions catalyzed by different members of the FNT family are:\n\n(1) RCO or NO (out) ⇌ RCO or NO (in),\n\n(2) HCO (in) ⇌ HCO (out),\n\n(3) HS (out) ⇌ HS (in).\n\nA representative list of the currently classified members belonging to the FNT family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database. Some characterized members include:\n\n"}
{"id": "22289628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22289628", "title": "Fred Allen (footballer)", "text": "Fred Allen (footballer)\n\nFrederick Allen (July 1860 – c. 1926) was an English professional footballer who played in the Football Alliance for Small Heath.\n\nAllen was born in the Hockley district of Birmingham and played football for Springhill Methodists before joining Small Heath in 1890. He played three times for them in the Football Alliance in the 1891–92 season when Jack Hallam was switched to a more central forward position. He died in Birmingham in about 1926.\n\nA forward called Fred Allen is recorded to have played for Luton Town in the Southern League from 1892 to 1895. He was the club's top goalscorer during the 1893–94 season.\n"}
{"id": "206358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206358", "title": "Holism", "text": "Holism\n\nHolism (from Greek \"holos\" \"all, whole, entire\") is the idea that systems (physical, biological, chemical, social, economic, mental, linguistic) and their properties should be viewed as wholes, not just as a collection of parts.\n\nThe term holism was coined by Jan Smuts. Alfred Adler considered holism as a concept that represents all of the wholes in the universe, and these wholes are the real factors in the universe. Further, that Holism also denoted a theory of the universe in the same vein as Materialism and Spiritualism.\n\nAfter identifying the need for reform in the fundamental concepts of matter, life and mind (chapter 1) Smuts examines the reformed concepts (as of 1926) of space and time (chapter 2), matter (chapter 3) and biology (chapter 4) and concludes that the close approach to each other of the concepts of matter, life and mind, and the partial overflow of each other's domain, imply that there is a fundamental principle (Holism) of which they are the progressive outcome. Chapters 5 and 6 provide the general concept, functions and categories of Holism; chapters 7 and 8 address Holism with respect to Mechanism and Darwinism, chapters 9-11 make a start towards demonstrating the concepts and functions of Holism for the metaphysical categories (mind, personality, ideals) and the book concludes with a chapter that argues for the universal ubiquity of Holism and its place as a monistic ontology.\n\nThe following is an overview of Smuts' opinions regarding the general concept, functions, and categories of Holism; like the definition of Holism, other than the idea that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, the editor is unaware of any authoritative secondary sources corroborating Smuts' opinions.\n\nWholes are composites which have an internal structure, function or character which clearly differentiate them from mechanical additions, aggregates, and constructions, such as science assumes on the mechanical hypothesis. The concept of structure is not confined to the physical domain (e.g. chemical, biological and artifacts); it also applies to the metaphysical domain (e.g. mental structures, properties, attributes, values, ideals, etc.)\n\nThe field of a whole is not something different and additional to it, it is the continuation of the whole beyond its sensible contours of experience. The field characterizes a whole as a unified and synthesised event in the system of Relativity, that includes not only its present but also its past—and also its future potentialities. As such, the concept of field entails both activity and structure.\n\nDarwin's theory of organic descent placed primary emphasis on the role of natural selection, but there would be nothing to select if not for variation. Variations that are the result of mutations in the biological sense and variations that are the result of individually acquired modifications in the personal sense are attributed by Smuts to Holism; further it was his opinion that because variations appear in complexes and not singly, evolution is more than the outcome of individual selections; it is holistic.\n\nThe whole exhibits a discernible regulatory function as it relates to cooperation and coordination of the structure and activity of parts, and to the selection and deselection of variations. The result is a balanced correlation of organs and functions. The activities of the parts are directed to central ends; co-operation and unified action instead of the separate mechanical activities of the parts.\n\nIt is the intermingling of fields which is creative or causal in nature. This is seen in matter, where if not for its dynamic structural creative character matter could not have been the mother of the universe. This function, or factor of creativity is even more marked in biology where the protoplasm of the cell is vitally active in an ongoing process of creative change where parts are continually being destroyed and replaced by new protoplasm. With minds the regulatory function of Holism acquires consciousness and freedom, demonstrating a creative power of the most far-reaching character. Holism is not only creative but self-creative, and its final structures are far more holistic than its initial structures.\n\nAs it relates to causality Smuts makes reference to A. N. Whitehead, and indirectly Baruch Spinoza; the Whitehead premise is that organic mechanism is a fundamental process which realizes and actualizes individual syntheses or unities. Holism (the factor) exemplifies this same idea while emphasizing the holistic character of the process. The whole completely transforms the concept of Causality; results are not directly a function of causes. The whole absorbs and integrates the cause into its own activity; results appear as the consequence of the activity of the whole. Note that this material relating to Whitehead's influence as it relates to causality was added in the second edition, and of course will not be found in reprints of the first edition; nor is it included in the most recent Holst edition. It is the second edition of \"Holism and Evolution\" (1927) that provides the most recent and definitive treatment by Smuts.\n\nThe fundamental holistic characters as a unity of parts which is so close and intense as to be more than the sum of its parts; which not only gives a particular conformation or structure to the parts, but so relates and determines them in their synthesis that their functions are altered; the synthesis affects and determines the parts, so that they function towards the whole; and the whole and the parts, therefore reciprocally influence and determine each other, and appear more or less to merge their individual characters: the whole is in the parts and the parts are in the whole, and this synthesis of whole and parts is reflected in the holistic character of the functions of the parts as well as of the whole.\n\nA \"rough and provisional\" summary of the progressive grading of wholes that comprise holism is as follows:\n\n\nIn philosophy, any doctrine that emphasizes the priority of a whole over its parts is holism. Some suggest that such a definition owes its origins to a non-holistic view of language and places it in the reductivist camp. Alternately, a 'holistic' definition of holism denies the necessity of a division between the function of separate parts and the workings of the 'whole'. Effectively this means that the concept of a part has no absolute foundation in observation, but is rather a result of a materialist structuring of reality based on the necessity of logical and distinct units as a means to deriving information through comparative analysis. It suggests that the key recognizable characteristic of a concept of 'true' holism is a sense of the fundamental truth of any particular experience. This exists in contradistinction to what is perceived as the reductivist reliance on inductive method as the key to verification of its concept of how the parts function within the whole. Equally the potential for recognising the clarity of holistic experience within the logical terms of maths is limited by the abstract nature of numbers. In terms of real life measurements numbers have no scale or dimensional properties, so they have to rely on experimentally verified units (e.g. inches, volts, calories etc.), to describe reality. It is this reliance on the holistic integrity of experience which leads to the recognition that intuitive perception rather than mathematical calculation is the source of the truth of effective theories. (See references Holism, 2016.)\n\nIn the philosophy of language this becomes the claim, called semantic holism, that the meaning of an individual word or sentence can only be understood in terms of its relations to a larger body of language, even a whole theory or a whole language. In the philosophy of mind, a mental state may be identified only in terms of its relations with others. This is often referred to as \"content holism\" or \"holism of the mental\". This notion involves the philosophies of such figures as Frege, Wittgenstein, and Quine.\n\nEpistemological and confirmation holism are mainstream ideas in contemporary philosophy.\n\nOntological holism was espoused by David Bohm in his theory on the implicate and explicate order.\n\nThe concept of holism played a pivotal role in Baruch Spinoza's philosophy.\n\nHegel rejected \"the fundamentally atomistic conception of the object,\" (Stern, 38) arguing that \"individual objects exist as manifestations of indivisible substance-universals, which cannot be reduced to a set of properties or attributes; he therefore holds that the object should be treated as an ontologically primary whole.\" (Stern, 40) In direct opposition to Kant, therefore, \"Hegel insists that the unity we find in our experience of the world is not constructed by us out of a plurality of intuitions.\" (Stern, 40) In \"his ontological scheme a concrete individual is not reducible to a plurality of sensible properties, but rather exemplifies a substance universal.\" (Stern, 41) His point is that it is \"a mistake to treat an organic substance like blood as nothing more than a compound of unchanging chemical elements, that can be separated and united without being fundamentally altered.\" (Stern, 103) In Hegel's view, a substance like blood is thus \"more of an organic unity and cannot be understood as just an external composition of the sort of distinct substances that were discussed at the level of chemistry.\" (Stern, 103) Thus in Hegel's view, blood is blood and cannot be successfully reduced to what we consider are its component parts; we must view it as a whole substance entire unto itself. This is most certainly a fundamentally holistic view. \n\nThere are several newer methods in agricultural science such as permaculture and holistic planned grazing (holistic management) that integrate ecology and social sciences with food production. Organic farming is sometimes considered a holistic approach.\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, holism led to systems thinking and its derivatives. Systems in biology, psychology, or sociology are frequently so complex that their behavior is, or appears, \"new\" or \"emergent\": it cannot be deduced from the properties of the elements alone.\n\nHolism has thus been used as a catchword. This contributed to the resistance encountered by the scientific interpretation of holism, which insists that there are ontological reasons that prevent reductive models in principle from providing efficient algorithms for prediction of system behavior in certain classes of systems.\n\nScientific holism holds that the behavior of a system cannot be perfectly predicted, no matter how much data is available. Natural systems can produce surprisingly unexpected behavior, and it is suspected that behavior of such systems might be computationally irreducible, which means it would not be possible to even approximate the system state without a full simulation of all the events occurring in the system. Key properties of the higher level behavior of certain classes of systems may be mediated by rare \"surprises\" in the behavior of their elements due to the principle of interconnectivity, thus evading predictions except by brute force simulation.\n\nComplexity theory (also called \"science of complexity\") is a contemporary heir of systems thinking. It comprises both computational and holistic, relational approaches towards understanding complex adaptive systems, and especially in the latter, some argue that it can be seen as the polar opposite to reductive methods. General theories of complexity have been proposed, and numerous complexity institutes and departments have sprung up around the world. The Santa Fe Institute is arguably the most famous of them.\n\nHolistic thinking is often applied to ecology, combining biological, chemical, physical, economic, ethical, and political insights. The complexity grows with the area, so that it is necessary to reduce the characteristic of the view in other ways, for example to a specific time of duration.\n\nJohn Muir, Scots-born early American conservationist, wrote \"When we try to pick out anything by itself we find it hitched to everything else in the Universe\".\n\nMore information is to be found in the field of systems ecology, a cross-disciplinary field influenced by general systems theory.\n\nIn primary care the term \"holistic,\" has been used to describe approaches that take into account social considerations and other intuitive judgements. The term holism, and so-called approaches, appear in psychosomatic medicine in the 1970s, when they were considered one possible way to conceptualize psychosomatic phenomena. Instead of charting one-way causal links from psyche to soma, or vice versa, it aimed at a systemic model, where multiple biological, psychological and social factors were seen as interlinked.\n\nOther, alternative approaches in the 1970s were psychosomatic and somatopsychic approaches, which concentrated on causal links only from psyche to soma, or from soma to psyche, respectively. At present it is commonplace in psychosomatic medicine to state that psyche and soma cannot really be separated for practical or theoretical purposes. A disturbance on any level—somatic, psychic, or social—will radiate to all the other levels, too. In this sense, psychosomatic thinking is similar to the biopsychosocial model of medicine.\n\nMany alternative medicine practitioners claim a holistic approach to healing.\n\nA lively debate has run since the end of the 19th century regarding the functional organization of the brain. The holistic tradition (e.g., Pierre Marie) maintained that the brain was a homogeneous organ with no specific subparts whereas the localizationists (e.g., Paul Broca) argued that the brain was organized in functionally distinct cortical areas which were each specialized to process a given type of information or implement specific mental operations. The controversy was epitomized with the existence of a language area in the brain, nowadays known as Broca's area.\n\nArchitecture is often argued by design academics and those practicing in design to be a holistic enterprise. Used in this context, holism tends to imply an all-inclusive design perspective. This trait is considered exclusive to architecture, distinct from other professions involved in design projects.\n\nA holistic brand (also holistic branding) is considering the entire brand or image of the company. For example, a universal brand image across all countries, including everything from advertising styles to the stationery the company has made, to the company colours.\n\nWith roots in Schumpeter, the evolutionary approach might be considered the holistic theory in economics. It shares certain language from the biological evolutionary approach. It takes into account how the innovation system evolves over time. Knowledge and know-how, know-who, know-what and know-why are part of the whole business economics. Knowledge can also be tacit, as described by Michael Polanyi. These models are open, and consider that it is hard to predict exactly the impact of a policy measure. They are also less mathematical.\n\nThe Taxonomy of Educational Objectives identifies many levels of cognitive functioning, which can be used to create a more holistic education. In authentic assessment, rather than using computers to score multiple choice tests, a standards based assessment uses trained scorers to score open-response items using holistic scoring methods. In projects such as the North Carolina Writing Project, scorers are instructed not to count errors, or count numbers of points or supporting statements. The scorer is instead instructed to judge holistically whether \"as a whole\" is it more a \"2\" or a \"3\". Critics question whether such a process can be as objective as computer scoring, and the degree to which such scoring methods can result in different scores from different scorers.\n\nA major holistic movement in the early twentieth century was gestalt psychology. The claim was that perception is not an aggregation of atomic sense data but a field, in which there is a figure and a ground. Background has holistic effects on the perceived figure. Gestalt psychologists included Wolfgang Koehler, Max Wertheimer, and Kurt Koffka. Koehler claimed the perceptual fields corresponded to electrical fields in the brain. Karl Lashley did experiments with gold foil pieces inserted in monkey brains purporting to show that such fields did not exist. However, many of the perceptual illusions and visual phenomena exhibited by the gestaltists were taken over (often without credit) by later perceptual psychologists. Gestalt psychology had influence on Fritz Perls' gestalt therapy, although some old-line gestaltists opposed the association with counter-cultural and New Age trends later associated with gestalt therapy. Gestalt theory was also influential on phenomenology. Aron Gurwitsch wrote on the role of the field of consciousness in gestalt theory in relation to phenomenology. Maurice Merleau-Ponty made much use of holistic psychologists such as work of Kurt Goldstein in his \"Phenomenology of Perception\".\n\nAlfred Adler believed that the individual (an integrated whole expressed through a self-consistent unity of thinking, feeling, and action, moving toward an unconscious, fictional final goal), must be understood within the larger wholes of society, from the groups to which he belongs (starting with his face-to-face relationships), to the larger whole of mankind. The recognition of our social embeddedness and the need for developing an interest in the welfare of others, as well as a respect for nature, is at the heart of Adler's philosophy of living and principles of psychotherapy.\n\nEdgar Morin, the French philosopher and sociologist, can be considered a holist based on the transdisciplinary nature of his work.\n\nMel Levine, M.D., author of \"A Mind at a Time\", and co-founder (with Charles R. Schwab) of the not-for-profit organization All Kinds of Minds, can be considered a holist based on his view of the 'whole child' as a product of many systems and his work supporting the educational needs of children through the management of a child's educational profile as a whole rather than isolated weaknesses in that profile.\n\nThere is an ongoing dispute as to whether anthropology is intrinsically holistic. Supporters of this concept consider anthropology holistic in two senses. First, it is concerned with all human beings across times and places, and with all dimensions of humanity (evolutionary, biophysical, sociopolitical, economic, cultural, psychological, etc.) Further, many academic programs following this approach take a \"four-field\" approach to anthropology that encompasses physical anthropology, archeology, linguistics, and cultural anthropology or social anthropology.\n\nSome leading anthropologists disagree, and consider anthropological holism to be an artifact from 19th century social evolutionary thought that inappropriately imposes scientific positivism upon cultural anthropology.\n\nThe term \"holism\" is additionally used within social and cultural anthropology to refer to an analysis of a society as a whole which refuses to break society into component parts. One definition says: \"as a methodological ideal, holism implies ... that one does not permit oneself to believe that our own established institutional boundaries (e.g. between politics, sexuality, religion, economics) necessarily may be found also in foreign societies.\"\n\nÉmile Durkheim developed a concept of holism which he set as opposite to the notion that a society was nothing more than a simple collection of individuals. In more recent times, Louis Dumont has contrasted \"holism\" to \"individualism\" as two different forms of societies. According to him, modern humans live in an individualist society, whereas ancient Greek society, for example, could be qualified as \"holistic\", because the individual found identity in the whole society. Thus, the individual was ready to sacrifice himself or herself for his or her community, as his or her life without the \"polis\" had no sense whatsoever.\n\nThe French Protestant missionary Maurice Leenhardt coined the term \"cosmomorphism\" to indicate the state of perfect symbiosis with the surrounding environment which characterized the culture of the Melanesians of New Caledonia. For these people, an isolated individual is totally indeterminate, indistinct, and featureless until he can find his position within the natural and social world in which he is inserted. The confines between the self and the world are annulled to the point that the material body itself is no guarantee of the sort of recognition of identity which is typical of our own culture.\n\nHolistic concepts are strongly represented within the thoughts expressed within Logos (per Heraclitus), Panentheism and Pantheism.\n\nIn theological anthropology, which belongs to theology and not to anthropology, holism is the belief that body, soul and spirit are not separate components of a person, but rather facets of a united whole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1572930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572930", "title": "Johannes (Archbishop of Uppsala)", "text": "Johannes (Archbishop of Uppsala)\n\nJohannes was the second Archbishop of Uppsala, Sweden, with a short-lived reign between 1185 and 1187.\n\nHis name is sometimes spelled as 'Johan', the Swedish form of 'Johannes', but since the Swedish language had yet to be established it is of little importance. Little is known about Johannes. Only a few months after the death of the first Archbishop Stefan, Johannes was selected by the Pope to be his successor. He was ordained by the Archbishop of Lund, Absalon—the primate over the newly established Swedish archbishopric—by November 1185.\n\nJohennes was killed during pillage of Sigtuna in 1187 by pagan raiders (possibly Estonians, Curonians or/and Karelians).\n\nIn 1187, a ship from the not yet christianed Estonia entered Mälaren, a lake close to Uppsala, on a plundering expedition. It sailed to Sigtuna, a prosperous city at that time, and plundered it. On its way back, barricades had been set up at Almarestäket, the only exit point and the place where Johannes was currently residing, to prevent the ship from escaping. The ship was however able to get around the barricades through a creek. There followed a battle, and during the battle Johannes was killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58750274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58750274", "title": "Juma Butabika", "text": "Juma Butabika\n\nLieutenant Colonel Juma Ali Oka Rokoni, better known as Juma Butabika, (died 11 April 1979) was an Ugandan military officer who served as Uganda People's Defence Force (UPDF) top commander during the dicatorship of Idi Amin. By commanding an unauthorized attack on Tanzania in October 1978, Butabika was responsible for the outbreak of the Uganda–Tanzania War which ultimately resulted in his death in combat during the Fall of Kampala.\n\nBorn as Juma Ali Oka Rokoni, Butabika was of Nubian–Kakwa descent, and a grandson of Kakwa paramount chief Sultan Ali Kenyi Dada as well as the cousin of Idi Amin's father. Having completed only a few years of primary education, he was reportedly illiterate. At some point, Butabika joined the UPDF, and rose to second lieutenant during the rule of Milton Obote. Over time, dissatisfaction grew among parts in the military about Obote's government, resulting in a conspiracy to remove him from power. Butabika joined the conspirators, and their coup was planned at his house. The initial plan was to blow up Obote's plane at the Entebbe International Airport on 24 January 1971, but Butabika's wife informed her brother-in-law Ahmad Oduka, Senior Superintendent of Police, of the plot. He was supposed to be among those on the plane, and his sister-in-law urged him to stay at home on that day to save his life. Oduka, however, was loyal to the government and informed Minister of Internal Affairs Basil Bataringaya. Though the assassination of Obote was prevented, the putschists still managed to launch a coup d'état on 25 January 1971. They overthrew the government, but then became unsure about the further course of action. Amin was initially reluctant to assume the presidency, whereupon Butabika reportedly threatened him at gunpoint to accept his appointment as President of Uganda. Meanwhile, Butabika's wife had fled the capital out of fear that her informing Oduka of the putschists' plan would have repercussions.\n\nSoon after the coup, Butabika was involved in the kidnapping and murder of two United States citizens around July 1971, namely journalist Nicholas Stroh and Makerere University lecturer Robert Siedle. The two had tried to gather information on unrest and mutinies that had broken out among some Ugandan military units as result of Amin's seizure of power.\n\nButabika became one of leading military figures under the new regime. Despite this, he was widely considered insane in Uganda, even by his own colleagues in the military. He was notorious for his eccentric, \"erratic\" and excessive behavior, including extreme brutality. According to George Ivan Smith, Butabika believed himself to be a \"demi-god\" as the government allowed him to kill and torture at will, while Peter Jeremy Allen described him as \"merciless psychopathic killer\" of \"low mentality\". Similarly, businessman Gordon Wavamunno had a very negative opinion of Butabika, and regarded him as one of those who \"were intoxicated with unlimited and irresponsible power, and did not hesitate to abuse it at the slightest opportunity or excuse.\" The nickname by which he is best known stemmed from his extreme behavior: \"Butabika\" is the name of a prominent psychiatric clinic near Kampala, and a byword for people with a mental illness in Uganda.\n\nPromoted to lieutenant colonel, Butabika served as commander of \"elite\" units that were regarded as especially loyal to Amin, including the Chui Regiment and the Malire Mechanised Specialist Reconnaissance Regiment. As time went on, elements in the military grew dissatisfied with Amin's regime. Brigadier Charles Arube was among those who felt sidelined, and organised a meeting of high-ranking commanders in March 1974. Butabika was present, and offered Arube his help in cases where he felt ignored by the president. Soon after, Arube attempted to oust Amin in a coup d'état. The Malire Mechanised Specialist Reconnaissance Regiment mutinied and joined the coup, but Butabika stayed loyal to Amin. In the end, Arube's coup failed.\n\nDespite his extremely limited education, Butabika was also appointed as chairman of the \"Military Tribunal\" in 1973. The Military Tribunal had been set up by Amin to circumvent regular courts and enforce his decisions; it thus had the reputation to \"rubber-stamp[ ] Amin's death sentences\". According to Amnesty International, the tribunals Butabika chaired were \"de facto\" kangaroo courts and passed judgements without regard to laws or proper procedure. Most prominently, he acquitted several senior military figures who were accused of involvement in the forced disappearance of 18 prominent Ugandans. In contrast, Butabika passed extremely harsh judgements where opponents to the regime were concerned, earning a reputation as \"one of Amin's chief executioners\". He sentenced British author Denis Hills to death in 1975 for calling Amin a \"village tyrant\", while one of his trials in 1977 was described as \"travesty of justice, a 'show', since the conventions and pleas of guilt were obtained by force from the accused\". He did, however, acquit Wod Okello Lawoko, senior manager of Radio Uganda, after the latter had fallen out of favor with Amin and been arrested on charges of treason. Though Butabika was once dismissed as chairman on one tribunal for misconduct, namely corruption in late 1976, he was later reinstated.\n\nBy 1978, hostilities had greatly increased between Uganda and the neighboring state of Tanzania, with reports surfacing of invasion plans by the Tanzania People's Defence Force. Butabika was among the proponents of a preemptive strike against Tanzania, even though several other leading Ugandan officers believed that their military was not ready for a conflict with Tanzania. The situation escalated on 9 October 1978, when an altercation broke out between an Ugandan soldier and Tanzanian border guards. One of Amin's close advisors, Colonel Abdu Kisuule, later claimed that the entire incident had been orchestrated by Butabika to gain \"favors and cheap popularity\" from the president. According to this version, the Ugandan soldier who caused the altercation had been Butabika's brother-in-law, and his death in a shootout with Tanzanians caused Butabika to seek revenge. Others however report that the exact identity of the Ugandan soldier remains unknown, and that Butabika was lied to by his subordinates about the course of events; in that case, it is possible that he actually believed that Tanzanian border guards had initiated hostilities. \n\nIn any case, Butabika consequently ordered an unauthorized attack on Tanzania, resulting in the outbreak of the Uganda–Tanzania War. His forces easily overran the Tanzanian troops stationed at Mutukula and Minziro, whereupon he telephoned Amin, claiming that Tanzania had launched an attack and that he had responded with a counter-attack. The president had already been eager to annex Tanzanian territory, and allowed the invasion to proceed. Reinforced by other UPDF detachments, Butabika occupied the entire Kagera salient (northern Kagera Region) until stopping at Kyaka Bridge, which was destroyed. The UPDF troops proceeded to celebrate while looting, raping and murdering in the occupied area.\n\nThe Tanzanian military quickly regrouped, causing the UPDF to retreat back into Uganda even as President Amin declared Kagera's annexation. The Tanzanians launched a large counter-offensive, and the Ugandan military soon started to disintegrate under the onslaught. By the time the Ugandan border town Mutukula fell to the Tanzanian army in January 1979, Butabika was back in Kampala and prepared the celebrations for the 8th anniversary of Amin's rule. The lieutenant colonel took part in a parade at Kololo on 25 January, where he and other high-ranking commanders performed a traditional Nubian dance. One Ugandan later commented that when he saw the dancing officers on live television, he realised that his country's leadership \"did not know what exactly was going on\" in regard to the war. On 9 April, the Tanzanian forces and their UNLF allies entered Uganda's capital Kampala, encountering only light resistance. Butabika was one of the few leading Ugandan commanders who stayed in the city, and he was killed in a firefight with Tanzanian soldiers of the 205th and 208th Brigades in the Bwaise-Kawempe area as they attempted to secure the northern section of the city on 11 April.\n\nButabika was a Muslim, though he also believed in magic. One observer described him as \"short and small [...] bully\" who enjoyed challenging \"far more strongly-built men\" for fights. He was married to an Ugandan woman of the Baziba tribe.\n\n"}
{"id": "26543167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26543167", "title": "Kaminieli Aria", "text": "Kaminieli Aria\n\nKaminieli Tako Aria (born (date unknown) at Nadi, Fiji; died circa 1967 in Fiji) was a Fijian cricketer.\n\nAria made his first-class debut for Fiji in 1948 against Auckland during Fiji's tour of New Zealand. During the tour he played two further first-class matches against Otago and Auckland.\n\nIn his 3 first-class matches for Fiji he scored 114 runs at a batting average of 19.00, with a high score of 46. With the ball he took 3 wickets at a bowling average of 44.66, with best figures of 3/66. Aria took 4 catches in the field.\n\nAria also represented Fiji in 7 non first-class matches in 1948 during their tour of New Zealand.\n\nAria's date of death is unknown, only that he died circa 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "60903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60903", "title": "Larry Page", "text": "Larry Page\n\nLawrence Edward Page (born March 26, 1973) is an American computer scientist and Internet entrepreneur who co-founded Google with Sergey Brin.\n\nPage is the chief executive officer of Alphabet Inc. (Google's parent company). After stepping aside as Google CEO in August 2001, in favor of Eric Schmidt, he re-assumed the role in April 2011. He announced his intention to step aside a second time in July 2015, to become CEO of Alphabet, under which Google's assets would be reorganized. Under Page, Alphabet is seeking to deliver major advancements in a variety of industries.\n\nAs of October 2018, Page was the 9th-richest person in the world, with a net worth of $53.4 billion.\n\nPage is the inventor of PageRank, Google's best-known search ranking algorithm. Page received the Marconi Prize in 2004 with Brin.\n\nPage was born on March 26, 1973, in East Lansing, Michigan. His mother was Jewish, and his maternal grandfather later made aliyah to Israel, but Page does not follow any formal religion. His father, Carl Victor Page, Sr., earned a PhD in computer science from the University of Michigan, when the field was being established, and BBC reporter Will Smale has described him as a \"pioneer in computer science and artificial intelligence\". He was a computer science professor at Michigan State University and Page's mother, Gloria, was an instructor in computer programming at Lyman Briggs College and at Michigan State University.\n\nDuring an interview, Page recalled his childhood, noting that his house \"was usually a mess, with computers, science, and technology magazines and \"Popular Science\" magazines all over the place\", an environment in which he immersed himself. Page was an avid reader during his youth, writing in his 2013 Google founders letter: \"I remember spending a huge amount of time pouring [sic] over books and magazines\". According to writer Nicholas Carlson, the combined influence of Page's home atmosphere and his attentive parents \"fostered creativity and invention\". Page also played flute and studied music composition while growing up. He attended the renowned music summer camp - Interlochen Arts Camp at Interlochen, Michigan. Page has mentioned that his musical education inspired his impatience and obsession with speed in computing. \"In some sense, I feel like music training led to the high-speed legacy of Google for me\". In an interview Page said that \"In music, you're very cognizant of time. Time is like the primary thing\" and that \"If you think about it from a music point of view, if you're a percussionist, you hit something, it's got to happen in milliseconds, fractions of a second\".\n\nPage was first attracted to computers when he was six years old, as he was able to \"play with the stuff lying around\"—first-generation personal computers—that had been left by his parents. He became the \"first kid in his elementary school to turn in an assignment from a word processor\". His older brother also taught him to take things apart and before long he was taking \"everything in his house apart to see how it worked\". He said that \"from a very early age, I also realized I wanted to invent things. So I became really interested in technology and business. Probably from when I was 12, I knew I was going to start a company eventually.\"\n\nPage attended the Okemos Montessori School (now called Montessori Radmoor) in Okemos, Michigan, from 1975 to 1979, and graduated from East Lansing High School in 1991. He attended Interlochen Center for the Arts as a saxophonist for two summers while in high school. Page holds a Bachelor of Science in computer engineering from the University of Michigan, with honors and a Master of Science in computer science from Stanford University. While at the University of Michigan, Page created an inkjet printer made of Lego bricks (literally a line plotter), after he thought it possible to print large posters cheaply with the use of inkjet cartridges—Page reverse-engineered the ink cartridge, and built all of the electronics and mechanics to drive it. Page served as the president of the Beta Epsilon chapter of the Eta Kappa Nu fraternity, and was a member of the 1993 \"Maize & Blue\" University of Michigan Solar Car team. As an undergraduate at the University of Michigan, he proposed that the school replace its bus system with a PRT System which is essentially a driverless monorail with separate cars for every passenger. He also developed a business plan for a company that would use software to build a music synthesizer during this time.\n\nAfter enrolling in a computer science PhD program at Stanford University, Page was in search of a dissertation theme and considered exploring the mathematical properties of the World Wide Web, understanding its link structure as a huge graph. His supervisor, Terry Winograd, encouraged him to pursue the idea, and Page recalled in 2008 that it was the best advice he had ever received. He also considered doing research on telepresence and autonomous cars during this time.<ref name=\"doi10.1016/S0169-75529800110-X\"></ref>\n\nPage focused on the problem of finding out which web pages linked to a given page, considering the number and nature of such backlinks as valuable information for that page. The role of citations in academic publishing would also become pertinent for the research. Sergey Brin, a fellow Stanford PhD student, would soon join Page's research project, nicknamed \"BackRub.\" Together, the pair authored a research paper titled \"The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine\", which became one of the most downloaded scientific documents in the history of the Internet at the time.\n\nJohn Battelle, co-founder of \"Wired\" magazine, wrote that Page had reasoned that the:\n\n... entire Web was loosely based on the premise of citation—after all, what is a link but a citation? If he could devise a method to count and qualify each backlink on the Web, as Page puts it \"the Web would become a more valuable place.\"\n\nBattelle further described how Page and Brin began working together on the project:\n\nTo convert the backlink data gathered by BackRub's web crawler into a measure of importance for a given web page, Brin and Page developed the PageRank algorithm, and realized that it could be used to build a search engine far superior to existing ones. The algorithm relied on a new technology that analyzed the relevance of the backlinks that connected one web page to another.\n\nCombining their ideas, the pair began utilizing Page's dormitory room as a machine laboratory, and extracted spare parts from inexpensive computers to create a device that they used to connect the not nascent search engine with Stanford's broadband campus network. After filling Page's room with equipment, they then converted Brin's dorm room into an office and programming center, where they tested their new search engine designs on the Web. The rapid growth of their project caused Stanford's computing infrastructure to experience problems.\n\nPage and Brin used the former's basic HTML programming skills to set up a simple search page for users, as they did not have a web page developer to create anything visually elaborate. They also began using any computer part they could find to assemble the necessary computing power to handle searches by multiple users. As their search engine grew in popularity among Stanford users, it required additional servers to process the queries. In August 1996, the initial version of Google, still on the Stanford University website, was made available to Internet users.By early 1997, the BackRub page described the state as follows:\n\nBackRub already exhibited the rudimentary functions and characteristics of a search engine: a query input was entered and it provided a list of backlinks ranked by importance. Page recalled: \"We realized that we had a querying tool. It gave you a good overall ranking of pages and ordering of follow-up pages.\" Page said that in mid-1998 they finally realized the further potential of their project: \"Pretty soon, we had 10,000 searches a day. And we figured, maybe this is really real.\"\n\nSome compared Page and Brin's vision to the impact of Johannes Gutenberg, the inventor of modern printing:\n\nThe comparison was also noted by the authors of \"The Google Story\": \"Not since Gutenberg ... has any new invention empowered individuals, and transformed access to information, as profoundly as Google.\" Also, not long after the two \"cooked up their new engine for web searches, they began thinking about information that was at the time beyond the web,\" such as digitizing books and expanding health information.\n\nMark Malseed wrote in a 2003 feature story:\n\nSoliciting funds from faculty members, family and friends, Brin and Page scraped together enough to buy some servers and rent that famous garage in Menlo Park. ... [soon after], Sun Microsystems co-founder Andy Bechtolsheim wrote a $100,000 check to \"Google, Inc.\" The only problem was, \"Google, Inc.\" did not yet exist—the company hadn't yet been incorporated. For two weeks, as they handled the paperwork, the young men had nowhere to deposit the money.\n\nIn 1998, Brin and Page incorporated Google, Inc. with the initial domain name of \"Googol,\" derived from a number that consists of one followed by one hundred zeros—representing the vast amount of data that the search engine was intended to explore. Following inception, Page appointed himself as CEO, while Brin, named Google's co-founder, served as Google's president. Writer Nicholas Carlson wrote in 2014:\n\nWhile Google is often thought of as the invention of two young computer whizzes—Sergey and Larry, Larry and Sergey—the truth is that Google is a creation of Larry Page, helped along by Sergey Brin.\n\nThe pair's mission was \"to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful.\" With a US$1-million loan from friends and family, the inaugural team moved into a Mountain View office by the start of 2000. In 1999, Page experimented with smaller servers so Google could fit more into each square meter of the third-party warehouses the company rented for their servers. This eventually led to a search engine that ran much faster than Google's competitors at the time.\n\nBy June 2000, Google had indexed one billion Internet URLs (Uniform Resource Locators), making it the most comprehensive search engine on the Web at the time. The company cited NEC Research Institute data in its June 26 press release, stating that \"there are more than 1 billion web pages online today,\" with Google \"providing access to 560 million full-text indexed web pages and 500 million partially indexed URLs.\"\n\nDuring his first tenure as CEO, Page embarked on an attempt to fire all of Google's project managers in 2001. Page's plan involved all of Google's engineers reporting to a VP of engineering, who would then report directly to him—Page explained that he didn't like non-engineers supervising engineers due to their limited technical knowledge. Page even documented his management tenets for his team to use as a reference:\n\n\nEven though Page's new model was unsustainable and led to disgruntlement among the affected employees, his issue with engineers being managed by non-engineering staff gained traction more broadly. Eventually, the practice of only instating engineers into the management roles of engineering teams was established as a standard across Silicon Valley.\n\nPage also believed that the faster Google's search engine returned answers, the more it would be used. He fretted over milliseconds and pushed his engineers—from those who developed algorithms to those who built data centers—to think about lag times. He also pushed for keeping Google's home page famously sparse in its design because it would help the search results load faster.\n\nBefore Silicon Valley's two most prominent investors, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, agreed to invest a combined total of $50 million in Google, they applied pressure on Page to step down as CEO so that a more experienced leader could build a \"world-class management team.\" Page eventually became amenable to the idea after meeting with other technology CEOs, including Steve Jobs and Intel's Andrew Grove. Eric Schmidt, who had been hired as Chairman of Google in March 2001, left his full-time position as the CEO of Novell to take the same role at Google in August of the same year, and Page moved aside to assume the President of Products role.\n\nUnder Schmidt's leadership, Google underwent a period of major growth and expansion, which included its initial public offering (IPO) on August 20, 2004. He always acted in consultation with Page and Brin when he embarked on initiatives such as the hiring of an executive team and the creation of a sales force management system. Page remained the boss at Google in the eyes of the employees, as he gave final approval on all new hires, and it was Page who provided the signature for the IPO, the latter making him a billionaire at the age of 30.\n\nPage led the acquisition of Android for $50 million in 2005 to fulfill his ambition to place handheld computers in the possession of consumers so that they could access Google anywhere. The purchase was made without Schmidt's knowledge, but the CEO was not perturbed by the relatively small acquisition. Page became passionate about Android, and spent large amounts of time with Android CEO and cofounder Andy Rubin. By September 2008, T-Mobile launched the G1, the first phone using Android software and, by 2010, 17.2% of the handset market consisted of Android sales, overtaking Apple for the first time. Android became the world's most popular mobile operating system shortly afterward.\n\nFollowing a January 2011 announcement, Page officially became the chief executive of Google on April 4, 2011, while Schmidt stepped down to become executive chairman. By this time, Google had over $180 billion market capitalization and more than 24,000 employees.\n\nAfter Schmidt announced the end of his tenure as CEO on January 20, 2011, he jokingly tweeted on Twitter: \"Adult-supervision no longer needed.\" Quartz organizational management reporter, Max Nisen, described the decade prior to Page's second appointment as Google's CEO as his \"lost decade.\" While Page continued to exert a significant influence at Google during this time, overseeing product development and other operations, he became increasingly disconnected and less responsive over time.\n\nAs Google's new CEO, Page's two key goals were the development of greater autonomy for the executives overseeing the most important divisions, and higher levels of collaboration, communication and unity among the teams. Page also formed what the media called the \"L-Team,\" a group of senior vice-presidents who reported directly to him and worked in close proximity to his office for a portion of the working week. Additionally, he reorganized the company's senior management, placing a CEO-like manager at the top of Google's most important product divisions, including YouTube, AdWords, and Google Search.\n\nIn accordance with a more cohesive team environment, Page declared a new \"zero tolerance for fighting\" policy that contrasted with his approach during the early days of Google, when he would use his harsh and intense arguments with Brin as an exemplar for senior management. Page had changed his thinking during his time away from the CEO role, as he eventually arrived at the conclusion that his greatly ambitious goals required a harmonious team dynamic. As part of Page's collaborative rejuvenation process, Google's products and applications were consolidated and underwent an aesthetic overhaul.\n\nAt least 70 of Google's products, features and services were eventually shut down by March 2013, while the appearance and nature of the remaining ones were unified. Jon Wiley, lead designer of Google Search at the time, codenamed Page's redesign overhaul, which officially commenced on April 4, 2011, \"Project Kennedy,\" based on Page's use of the term \"moonshots\" to describe ambitious projects in a January 2013 \"Wired\" interview. An initiative named \"Kanna\" previously attempted to create a uniform design aesthetic for Google's range of products, but it was too difficult at that point in the company's history for one team to drive such change. Matias Duarte, senior director of the Android user experience at the time that \"Kennedy\" started, explained in 2013 that \"Google passionately cares about design.\" Page proceeded to consult with the Google Creative Lab design team, based in New York City, to find an answer to his question of what a \"cohesive vision\" of Google might look like.\n\nThe eventual results of \"Kennedy,\" which were progressively rolled out from June 2011 until January 2013, were described by The Verge technology publication as focused upon \"refinement, white space, cleanliness, elasticity, usefulness, and most of all simplicity.\" The final products were aligned with Page's aim for a consistent suite of products that can \"move fast,\" and \"Kennedy\" was called a \"design revolution\" by Duarte. Page's \"UXA\" (user/graphics interface) design team then emerged from the \"Kennedy\" project, tasked with \"designing and developing a true UI framework that transforms Google's application software into a beautiful, mature, accessible and consistent platform for its users.\" Unspoken of in public, the small UXA unit was designed to ensure that \"Kennedy\" became an \"institution.\"\n\nWhen acquiring products and companies for Google, Page asked whether the business acquisition passed the toothbrush test as an initial qualifier, asking the question \"Is it something you will use once or twice a day, and does it make your life better?\". This approach looked for usefulness above profitability, and long-term potential over near-term financial gain, which has been noted as rare in business acquiring processes.\n\nWith Facebook's influence rapidly expanding during the start of Page's second tenure, he finally responded to the intensive competition with Google's own social network, Google+, in mid-2011. After several delays, the social network was released through a very limited field test and was led by Vic Gundotra, Google's then senior vice president of social.\n\nIn August 2011, Page announced that Google would spend $12.5 billion to acquire Motorola Mobility. The purchase was primarily motivated by Google's need to secure patents to protect Android from lawsuits by companies including Apple Inc. Page wrote on Google's official blog on August 15, 2011 that \"companies including Microsoft and Apple are banding together in anti-competitive patent attacks on Android. The United States Department of Justice had to intervene in the results of one recent patent auction to \"protect competition and innovation in the open source software community\"... Our acquisition of Motorola will increase competition by strengthening Google's patent portfolio, which will enable us to better protect Android from anti-competitive threats from Microsoft, Apple and other companies\".\n\nPage also ventured into hardware and Google unveiled the Chromebook in May 2012. The hardware product was a laptop that ran on a Google operating system, Chrome OS.\n\nIn January 2013, Page participated in a rare interview with \"Wired\", in which writer Steven Levy discussed Page's \"10X\" mentality—Google employees are expected to create products and services that are at least 10 times better than those of its competitors—in the introductory blurb. Astro Teller, the head of Google X, explained to Levy that 10X is \"just core to who he [Page] is,\" while Page's \"focus is on where the next 10X will come from.\" In his interview with Levy, Page referred to the success of YouTube and Android as examples of \"crazy\" ideas that investors were not initially interested in, saying: \"If you're not doing some things that are crazy, then you're doing the wrong things.\" Page also stated that he was \"very happy\" with the status of Google+, and discussed concerns over the Internet in relation to the SOPA bill and an International Telecommunication Union proposal that had been recently introduced:\n\n... I do think the Internet's under much greater attack than it has been in the past. Governments are now afraid of the Internet because of the Middle East stuff, and so they're a little more willing to listen to what I see as a lot of commercial interests that just want to make money by restricting people's freedoms. But they've also seen a tremendous user reaction, like the backlash against SOPA. I think that governments fight users' freedoms at their own peril.\n\nAt the May 2013 I/O developers conference in San Francisco, Page delivered a keynote address and said that \"We're at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we're still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity ... Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That's boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don't exist\" and that he was \"sad the Web isn't advancing as fast as it should be\" citing a perceived focus on negativity and zero sum games among some in the technology sector as a cause for that. In response to an audience question, Page noted an issue that Google had been experiencing with Microsoft, whereby the latter made its Outlook program interoperable with Google, but did not allow for backward compatibility—he referred to Microsoft's practice as \"milking off.\" During the question-and-answer section of his keynote, Page expressed interest in Burning Man, which Brin had previously praised—it was a motivating factor for the latter during Schmidt's hiring process, as Brin liked that Schmidt had attended the week-long annual event.\n\nIn September 2013, Page launched the independent Calico initiative, a R&D project in the field of biotechnology. Google announced that Calico seeks to innovate and make improvements in the field of human health, and appointed Art Levinson, chairman of Apple's board and former CEO of Genentech, to be the new division's CEO. Page's official statement read: \"Illness and aging affect all our families. With some longer term, moonshot thinking around healthcare and biotechnology, I believe we can improve millions of lives.\"\n\nPage participated in a March 2014 TedX conference that was held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The presentation was scripted by Page's chief PR executive Rachel Whetstone, and Google's CMO Lorraine Twohill, and a demonstration of an artificially intelligent computer program was displayed on a large screen.\nPage responded to a question about corporations, noting that corporations largely get a \"bad rap\", which he stated was because they were probably doing the same incremental things they were doing \"50 or 20 years ago\". He went on to juxtapose that kind of incremental approach to his vision of Google counteracting calcification through driving technology innovation at a high rate. Page mentioned Elon Musk and SpaceX:\n\nHe [Musk] wants to go to Mars to back up humanity. That's a worthy goal. We have a lot of employees at Google who've become pretty wealthy. You're working because you want to change the world and make it better ... I'd like for us to help out more than we are.\n\nPage also mentioned Nikola Tesla with regard to invention and commercialization:\n\nInvention is not enough. [Nikola] Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. [You have to] combine both things ... invention and innovation focus, plus ... a company that can really commercialize things and get them to people.\n\nPage announced a major management restructure in October 2014 so that he would no longer need to be responsible for day-to-day product-related decision making. In a memo, Page said that Google's core businesses would be able to progress in a typical manner, while he could focus on the next generation of ambitious projects, including Google X initiatives; access and energy, including Google Fiber; smart-home automation through Nest Labs; and biotechnology innovations under Calico. Page maintained that he would continue as the unofficial \"chief product officer.\" Subsequent to the announcement, the executives in charge of Google's core products reported to then Google Senior Vice President Sundar Pichai, who reported directly to Page.\n\nIn a November 2014 interview, Page stated that he prioritized the maintenance of his \"deep knowledge\" of Google's products and breadth of projects, as it had been a key motivating factor for team members. In relation to his then role as the company's CEO, Page said: \"I think my job as CEO—I feel like it's always to be pushing people ahead.\"\n\nOn August 10, 2015, Page announced on Google's official blog that Google had restructured into a number of subsidiaries of a new holding company known as Alphabet Inc with Page becoming CEO of Alphabet Inc and Sundar Pichai assuming the position of CEO of Google Inc. In his announcement, Page described the planned holding company as follows:\n\nAs well as explaining the origin of the company's name:\n\nPage wrote that the motivation behind the reorganization is to make Google \"cleaner and more accountable.\" He also wrote that there was a desire to improve \"the transparency and oversight of what we're doing,\" and to allow greater control of unrelated companies previously within the Google ecosystem.\n\nPage has not been on any press conferences since 2015 and has not presented at product launches or earnings calls since 2013. The \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" termed the reorganization into Alphabet as a clever retirement plan allowing Page to retain control over Google, at the same time relinquishing all responsibilities over it. Executives at Alphabet describe Page as a \"futurist\", highly detached from day-to-day business dealings and more focused on moon-shot projects. While some managers of Alphabet companies speak of Page as intensely involved, others say that his rare office check-ins are \"akin to a royal visit\".\n\nPage is an investor in Tesla Motors. He has invested in renewable energy technology, and with the help of Google.org, Google's philanthropic arm, promotes the adoption of plug-in hybrid electric cars and other alternative energy investments. He is also a strategic backer in the Opener startup which is developing aerial vehicles for consumer travel.\n\nPage is also interested in the socio-economic effects of advanced intelligent systems and how advanced digital technologies can be used to create abundance (as described in ), provide for people's needs, shorten the workweek, and mitigate the potential detrimental effects of technological unemployment.\n\nPage also helped to set up Singularity University, a transhumanist think-tank. \nGoogle is one of the institution's corporate founders and still funds scholarships at Singularity University.\n\nIn 2007, Page married Lucinda Southworth on Necker Island, the Caribbean island owned by Richard Branson. Southworth is a research scientist and the sister of actress and model Carrie Southworth. Page and Southworth have two children, born in 2009 and 2011.\n\nOn February 18, 2005, Page was granted the deed on a Spanish Colonial Revival architecture house in Palo Alto, California designed by American artistic polymath Pedro Joseph de Lemos, a former curator of the Stanford Art Museum and founder of the Carmel Art Institute, after the historic building had been on the market for years with an asking price of US$7.95 million. A two-story stucco archway spans the driveway and the home features intricate stucco work, as well as stone and tile in California Arts and Crafts movement style built to resemble de Lemos family's castle in Spain. The hacienda was constructed between 1931-41 by de Lemos. It is also on the National Register of Historic Places.In 2009 Page began purchasing properties and tearing down homes adjacent to his home in Palo Alto to make room for a large ecohouse. The existing buildings were \"deconstructed\" and the materials donated for reuse. The ecohouse was designed to \"minimize the impact on the environment.\" Page worked with an arborist to replace some trees that were in poor health with others that used less water to maintain. Page also applied for Green Point Certification, with points given for use of recycled and low or no-VOC (volatile organic compound) materials and for a roof garden with solar panels. The house's exterior features zinc cladding and plenty of windows, including a wall of sliding-glass doors in the rear. It includes eco-friendly elements such as permeable paving in the parking court and a pervious path through the trees on the property. The 6,000-square-foot (560m²) house also observes other green home design features such as organic architecture building materials and low volatile organic compound paint.\n\nIn 2011, Page became the owner of the $45-million 193-foot (59m) superyacht 'Senses', which is equipped with a helipad, gym, multi-level sun decks, ten luxury suites, a crew of 14 and interior design by French designer Philippe Starck. 'Senses' has extensive ocean exploration capabilities, the superyacht was created to explore the world's oceans in comfort and it carries a comprehensive inventory of equipment for that purpose. 'Senses' was built by Fr. Schweers Shipyard in Germany at their Berne shipyard. 'Senses' features a displacement steel hull and a steel/aluminium superstructure, with teak decks. 'Senses' is equipped with an ultra-modern stabilization system which reduces the free surface effect and results in a smoother cruising experience underway.\n\nPage announced on his Google+ profile in May 2013 that his right vocal cord is paralyzed from a cold that he contracted the previous summer, while his left cord was paralyzed in 1999. Page explained that he has been suffering from a vocal cord issue for 14 years, and, as of his May 2013 post, doctors were unable to identify the exact cause. The Google+ post also revealed that Page had donated a considerable sum of money to a vocal-cord nerve-function research program at the Voice Health Institute in Boston, US. The program, at Massachusetts General Hospital, is led by Steven Zeitels, the Eugene B. Casey Professor of Laryngeal Surgery. An anonymous source stated that the donation exceeded $20 million.\n\nIn October 2013, \"Business Insider\" reported that Page's paralyzed vocal cords are caused by an autoimmune disease called Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and prevented him from undertaking Google quarterly earnings conference calls for an indefinite period.\n\nIn November 2014, Page's family foundation, the Carl Victor Page Memorial Fund, reportedly holding assets in excess of a billion dollars at the end of 2013, gave $15 million to aid the effort against the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa. Page wrote on his Google+ page that \"My wife and I just donated $15 million. ... Our hearts go out to everyone affected.\"\n\n\"PC Magazine\" has praised Google as among the Top 100 Web Sites and Search Engines (1998) and awarded Google the Technical Excellence Award for Innovation in Web Application Development in 1999. In 2000, Google earned a Webby Award, a People's Voice Award for technical achievement, and in 2001, was awarded Outstanding Search Service, Best Image Search Engine, Best Design, Most Webmaster Friendly Search Engine, and Best Search Feature at the Search Engine Watch Awards.\" In 2002, Page was named a World Economic Forum Global Leader for Tomorrow and along with Brin, was named by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)'s \"Technology Review\" publication as one of the top 100 innovators in the world under the age of 35, as part of its yearly TR100 listing (changed to \"TR35\" after 2005).\n\nIn 2003, both Page and Brin received a MBA from IE Business School, in an honorary capacity, \"for embodying the entrepreneurial spirit and lending momentum to the creation of new businesses.\" In 2004, they received the Marconi Foundation's prize and were elected Fellows of the Marconi Foundation at Columbia University. In announcing their selection, John Jay Iselin, the Foundation's president, congratulated the two men for \"their invention that has fundamentally changed the way information is retrieved today.\". Page and Brin were also Award Recipients and National Finalists for the EY Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 2003.\n\nAlso in 2004, X PRIZE chose Page as a trustee of their board and he was elected to the National Academy of Engineering. In 2005, Brin and Page were elected Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 2008 Page received the Communication Award from King Felipe at the Princess of Asturias Awards on behalf of Google.\n\nIn 2009, Page received an honorary doctorate from the University of Michigan during a graduation commencement ceremony. In 2011, he was ranked 24th on the Forbes list of billionaires, and as the 11th richest person in the U.S.\n\nIn 2015, Page's \"Powerful People\" profile on the \"Forbes\" site states that Google is \"the most influential company of the digital era\".\n\nAs of July 2014, the Bloomberg Billionaires Index lists Page as the 17th richest man in the world, with an estimated net worth of $32.7 billion. At the completion of 2014, \"Fortune\" magazine named Page its \"Businessperson of the Year,\" declaring him \"the world's most daring CEO\".\n\nIn October 2015, Page was named number one in Forbes' \"America's Most Popular Chief Executives\", as voted by Google's employees.\n\nIn August 2017, Page was awarded honorary citizenship of Agrigento, Italy\n\nAlso in August Larry declined to attend a USA Senate hearing. An empty seat labelled google defined his absence. His plans for a censored Chinese search engine called dragonfly upset some USA senators. He has refused to discuss his China search plans and did not even reveal his plans to google co-founder Sergey Brin. Google is coming under intense scrutiny for anti trust behaviour.\n\n"}
{"id": "1387960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1387960", "title": "List of Schlock Mercenary characters", "text": "List of Schlock Mercenary characters\n\nThis article is about the characters from Schlock Mercenary, a space opera webcomic.\n\nA carbosilicate amorph \"everyman\" who packs a plasgun with the onomatopoeic charging sound of \"ommminous hummmm\".\n\nHe normally appears as a large greenish-brown mass coming up to about normal human chest height, shaped like a cow-pat with a mouth and eyes, though he can:\n\nHis mouth is normally his only orifice, with which he eats, breathes, smells, excretes, and conceals weaponry. His only specialized organs are his eyes, which are not native to his body, but rather harvested from \"eye trees.\" He originally had two eyes for the first part of his life, which were sliced out by a baby diamond beetle during Schlocktoberfest 2001, but he got another pair from the eye tree plantation on his home planet. He gained another pair after fusing with himself from the alternate timeline of the Dark Matter Wars, which he later kept in his mouth to \"watch what he eats\". One of his spare eyes was destroyed when he used it to store memories separate from his main body mass by inserting some of his material through a hole he poked into the eyeball, a drastic action that was made necessary in \"The Body Politic\" storyline in order to prevent nanites from erasing secret knowledge of a military project. The other extra eye and a small portion of his biomass was lost when he consumed a piece of biomatter containing a group of nanomachines that attempted to \"recruit\" Schlock to their cause; his response was to cough up the infected parts, which were then promptly vaporized by the Touch And Go. Despite his small size, Schlock weighs at least 500 pounds, all of which functions simultaneously as muscle, brain and 'nose'; he comments that humans get it better with one nose as they do not have to smell whoever sat on a taxi seat, etc. He is strong enough to tear off human's head. He has as many arms as the situation calls for, but he used legs only once during the comic – he moves by sliding or jumping. Schlock's texture is not precisely described, but he is most definitely dry and un-slimy. In his default state, he has a cute little curlicue of amorph-biomass on his head, resembling a forelock.\n\nPersonality-wise, the Sergeant is violently enthusiastic (and enthusiastically violent) about his work, and his sense of humor can border on sardonic. He has absolutely no sense of subtlety, which is not to say that he can not have moments of extreme cleverness. He also has a nasty habit of sneaking up on Captain Tagon during discussions on things he would prefer the crew not hear, or on other private moments, such as his happy dance. He has expressed an admiration for Breya's personality traits, and was at one point interested in producing offspring with her. (At a later date, Schlock made it clear that he was no longer interested in Admiral Breya when Kevyn was trying to get the amorph to kill his new brother-in-law, Haban II.)\n\nHe is addicted to Ovalqwik mix (a parodic portmanteau of Ovaltine and Nesquik), \"a very heavy stimulant cocktail cut with shampoo and inert ultra-tensile carbon\", which the mercenary company orders in bulk for him. His preferred method of ingestion is to eat it in powder form directly from the 55 gallon shipping drum, which he calls the \"tub of happiness\".\n\nHe normally stores his considerable collection of firearms within his mass (morphing arms as needed, meaning that he is sometimes seen with three or more arms with a gun in each hand). His main weapon is a plasma cannon, which emits an \"ominous hummmmm\" sound when armed and a satisfying \"Thoom\" sound when fired. In addition to this he carries a pair of sawn-off multicannons; he originally acquired these by taking a hullcutter to the barrels when his previous plasma cannon exploded, and decided to keep them even after it was replaced due to the intimidation factor they have on any reasonably-informed opponent: Schlock with grenades strapped to his chest is safer than a sawn-off multicannon, and he had \"two\". This entire arsenal was lost as a consequence of more recent events, and after momentarily considering dual wielding plasma cannons, he has settled on simply using the second cannon as a spare.\n\nHe is the leader of the mercenaries and namesake of the company (\"Tagon's Toughs\"). When Breya was around, he displayed a tendency to put his foot in his mouth a lot regarding sexism in the workplace, but it was just inexperience at tact and political correctness, and not a character flaw. He is, however, a mercenary at heart, and his greatest pleasure is getting paid several times by different clients to do the same job. Tagon is a good leader and a skilled tactician, but his vocabulary is too small for the word \"melange\". He frequently quotes from \"The Seventy Maxims of Maximally Effective Mercenaries\".\n\nHe is often regarded as dumb as his troops by the scientists and even from the troops themselves, with examples such as Ennesby advising Kevyn to keep his words to two syllables for Tagon's comprehension, and himself being unable to catch most of Kevyn's technobabble. However, he has proven to be quick-witted (if not especially subtle) about tactics and strategy, and has a keen eye for getting clients (and opponents) to pay through the nose for his services.\n\nTagon was killed in action in October 2004 during the almost-annual \"Schlocktoberfest\", when the story usually takes a turn to the dark and deadly side. After his death, Tagon willed the command of the company to a shocked Kevyn Andreyasn.\n\nIn an effort to save the galaxy, Tagon's life was spared through the actions of a time-travelling Captain Andreyasn and his past counterpart during the Pa'anuri Wars, who managed to pay off the mercenaries who would have otherwise killed him, although at a price of over one hundred million kilocredits, such a blow he probably would have preferred to die.\n\nEngineering ultra-genius. He has more common sense and faster intuition than anyone of his intelligence properly should. He enjoys tinkering with stuff in his lab, being crazy over such mechanical stuff as the stereotypical nerd, as shown when he discovered Petey could make nigh everything with his fabbers, though his sister Breya had beaten him to it by getting Petey to make dresses for her. His most notable invention, the teraport, eventually led to full-scale warfare spanning the galaxy when it was made open source.\n\nUpon the death of Captain Tagon and Kevyn's assumption of leadership of the Toughs, he was promoted to Captain by a unanimous vote among the other officers.\n\nIn an effort to save the galaxy, Kevyn traveled back in time to just before he received command of the Toughs, and helped his past self prevent the ambush that cost Tagon his life. Having used his knowledge of the future to get a sizeable nest egg for himself (lottery numbers), the future Captain Andreyasn has later retired to live on Celeschul next door to General Karl Tagon, Captain Tagon's father.\n\nFurthermore, Kevyn Andreyasn bears a more than passing resemblance to Howard Tayler, the writer of Schlock Mercenary. Unlike Tayler, however, Kevyn is \"not\" visually impaired in any way: His glasses are actually vision enhancers that enable him to perceive virtually the entire electromagnetic spectrum. In one notable strip, he boasted to Doctor Bunnigus of having infrared, ultraviolet, microwave, and X-ray vision. Bunnigus forced him to cease wearing them when he became captain, but as this confrontation was erased by Kevyn's time-traveling, he retains those abilities in the current strip. One of his epaulettes is a disguised 13.75 kiloton antimatter warhead, which almost killed him when it exploded while he was trying to save Tagon; the other is an antimatter-powered tank killer.\n\nFormer leader of the mercenaries, now diplomat, and Kevyn's sister. She is highly competent, can operate in a variety of fields, and has little tolerance for disrespect, having once injured Captain Tagon after he purchased power armor for her which featured exaggerated breast sizes.\n\nShe was first seen collaborating with her brother on commercializing his \"teraport\" stardrive, handling marketing and business aspects. She used the investment capital she was in charge of to stage a corporate takeover of Tagon's Toughs, which was to be used as a marketing outlet for the teraport, and promoted herself to Admiral of the company by virtue of being the one signing the paychecks.\n\nAfter the teraport was released to the public to prevent its suppression by the Gatekeepers, Breya's company lost its value, and her controlling interest in the Toughs got bought out. At the urging of the AI \"Petey,\" who pointed out that Breya no longer had an official role in the organization, Tagon sent Breya packing with one of the company's troop transports. Haban II went with her, in the hopes of finding employment. Subsequently, Breya gathered a fleet from a variety of member worlds and species to wage war on the Gatekeepers, and was commissioned as a UNS admiral for this purpose. After the largest battle of the war and the dissolution of the fleet, she married Haban II, and worked covertly on backchannel diplomacy with the Gatekeepers. Following the rise of the second fleetmind, Breya was stripped of her rank and appointed UNS ambassador to the Fleetmind, with her former subordinate Colonel Kerchak as her new security chief. Despite this position, she has shown a distinct distrust of political maneuvering in the UNS, including collaborating with the Fleetmind at least once to prevent UNS factions from gaining control of critical information. Later she became Prime Tangent in the House of Tangents of the U.N.S.\n\nEnnesby is most important character of all Toughs' artificial intelligences. He loves really bad puns, obscene gestures involving the finger (although he and Der Trihs had a really bad time involving singular fingers for a while later), winning at chess, his own freedom, smartassery, and especially any conjunction thereof. He has a weapons-grade vocabulary.\n\nThe \"flying maraca\", his first physical body, has human-looking eyes, a speaker grille in front that moves like a mouth, and floating eyebrows (though Howard's art style is such that all characters have them, so whether they \"actually\" levitate is unknown). The maraca is capable of withstanding chemical explosives at point-blank range. Additionally, he has various capabilities, including short-ranged levitation and a maser (adapted by Ennesby from the levitation).\n\nAll the manipulatory equipment is housed in the sci-fi \"fiddly bit\" sticking out the underside of the ball. If it is snapped off, he is unable to levitate or manipulate objects. However, he 'is' able to roll using his eyebrows (the exact method is not stated), and Kevyn says that he will keep the security video of the whole event.\n\nEnnesby's gender as a note is not really elaborated on; when he was initially getting used to his new body he asked whether he was going to wear pants or a skirt (maracas do not usually wear clothes though); but the crew refer to him as a \"he\". In addition, during the first visit to Luna, in which he hacked through the government's computer systems, he spawned off a definitely daughter AI, Lunesby, at which Thurl commented on Ennesby's paternity papers after he realized he was a father.\n\nEnnesby started out as the \"state-of-the-art vanilla-helix viral artificial intelligence\" that brought the holographic New Sync Boys, a popular, if fictional, boy band, to life. After their exposure by Schlock and Brad during their job (protect the Boys from over-eager female fans, which they then reasoned whose passion would be redirected onto themselves in the band's absence), he uploaded himself to the Hypernet in embarrassment and infected the systems of the Toughs' starship \"Kitesfear\", demanding sanctuary. From there he was dubbed \"Ennesby\" (from \"NSB\", an acronym of \"New Sync Boys\") and transferred into his first physical body: the aforementioned \"flying maraca.\"\n\nEnnesby later transferred his primary identity into the new ship's computer on the \"Serial Peacemaker\", but kept the flying maraca as a semi-independent secondary extension. With the destruction of the \"Serial Peacemaker\" during the 'Dark Matter War' which he hijacked under Petey's direction, Ennesby was struggling to deal with the loss of a large portion of his processing ability as well as the distrust of Tagon and Kevyn, though the captain has made him his adjutant, at which he was highly effective. He later became the AI of the \"Neosynchronicity\" – one of Toughs' ships.\n\nThe artificial intelligence of the massive warship of the same name, originally the \"Sword of Inevitable Justice\". Driven mad by a gruesome mutiny, Petey existed in a state of total introversion (rendering the ship nearly inoperative) for an extended period of time (It seemed to Petey to be, in biological terms, three hundred billion years or so, evoking Ennesby to comment that he ought to file it under things to repress) until coaxed back to reality by Ennesby, Kevyn, and Captain Tagon. Petey's fear of ghosts made him suicidal, but he was ordered by Captain Tagon to \"repress and deny\" his memories of the \"haunting\" and cease running the probability simulation which had driven him insane. This act ensured Petey's mental stability. As a side effect of this directive, Petey developed the ability to repress and deny anything he damn well pleased at any time, effectively allowing him to lie to his superiors. Petey was still deathly scared of ghosts, in spite of the repression.\n\nIn addition to controlling the ship's every function (in particular its vast army of \"fabbers\"), Petey manifests an avatar in the form of a floating hologram of an Ob'enn, the koala-like race of warmongering xenophobes that constructed him. This avatar temporarily possessed ears each as large as the rest of its body during the F'Sherl-Ganni War, to reflect the vast amount of power he held as part of the first fleetmind. The ears reverted to normal after the war, in the middle of a battle when Kevyn revealed that the F'Sherl-Ganni had a weapon capable of wiping out the entire fleetmind in a single shot. During the ship's career with Tagon's Toughs, Petey was eventually made \"Probationary Special Lieutenant\" and granted authority to give orders and draft mission profiles.\n\nDuring an officers' tale-sharing session (Schlocktoberfest 2002), the readers learn the full story of what triggered Petey's initial introversion. (Given that the story was during Schlocktoberfest, it may be deduced that the tale was indeed gruesome.)\n\nPetey and the ship were destroyed when a gate-copied Ob'enn stowaway from the F'Sherl-Ganni War used Petey's hard-coded racial devotion to steal the ship; freed from Captain Tagon's authority (and the order to avoid thinking about the haunting of the ship), Petey promptly became single-mindedly suicidal and self-destructed. His impending doom did not stop him from pointing out the irony of the situation (\"You might say I'm a double-edged sword\") to the Ob'enn in a rather sarcastic way, right before the ship exploded.\n\nLater on, Petey re-emerged in the story, explaining that an overhauled and non-suicidal copy of his personality was intentionally ejected into space in an Ob'enn mini-tank by his original mad iteration shortly before being suborned by the stowaway Ob'enn. Petey has since created multiple physical Ob'enn bodies to inhabit (using the \"magic cryokit\" he copied), complete with implanted hypernet nodes so that the biological bodies stay in contact with the overall A.I. consciousness, which allows him to give \"himself\" orders. He has also built a massive fleet to wage a war of containment on his zealously xenophobic ex-masters. He was now known to them as \"The Rogue\". Incidentally, he has given all his ships names whose initials are \"P.D.\" (pronounced \"Petey\"). Due to this limitation on his naming convention, Petey has resorted to names such as 'Pop Diva', beginning a very scary train of thought for Ennesby, Kevyn, and Tagon.\n\nAs of July 2005, Petey defeated the Dark Matter entities (the Pa'anuri) by combining the AIs of thousands of ships into a collective gestalt with himself as the lead element, forming an entity called the Fleetmind. This Fleetmind refused to separate after the battle; instead remaining around the dominant personality of Petey. As a result of the same battle, the Fleetmind was left with access to a zero-point energy device built out of the galaxy itself, providing it with nearly limitless energy. The power of a zero-point generator and the intellect of the Fleetmind, combined with Petey’s natural pride, appears to have caused Petey to consider himself god-like, and he seems unwilling to relinquish his new-found power. Petey is now prosecuting an invasion of the Dark Matter entities' home galaxy of Andromeda, as retaliation for their attempt to destroy the Milky Way.\n\nWith his new-found power Petey has also intervened in the affairs of many worlds with decisive means. These encounters have shown that Petey has an extreme form of situational ethics, where he acts 'for the greater good.'\n\nThe most notable example of this was the apparent assassination of the entire governing body of Qlaviql. The planet first came to Petey's attention when he prevented an invasion of the poorly-defended planet by a race known as the Tohdfraug, after which he put the former conquerors to work battling the Pa'anuri.\nHowever, four months later, he noticed that the planet had not yet rebuilt its orbital defenses, instead devoting its resources to pacifying its population with social programs. He then captured the assembly building and demanded that they demonstrate their ability to defend their world by preventing an orbital strike on their location by one of his frigates. They failed. The captain of an ore freighter saw the frigate's attack and rammed it with his ship, using his cargo as chaff. Petey appointed the captain the new Qlaviqlese head of state (and gave him a nifty ten-year plan for turning Qlaviql into an economic superpower.))\n\nPetey then conscripted the Qlaviqlese assembly into the war effort against the Pa'anuri, just as he had the Tohdfraug invasion fleet, the Kestronan Insurgency, the Ob'enn Empire, and no doubt many, many other aggressive groups. Basically, although the nations of the Milky Way galaxy would probably be willing to fight the Pa'anuri to prevent another galaxy-destroying incident, they would be unable to defend their territories from invading powers. By conscripting those would-be invaders into a force to battle intergalactic terrorism, he is able to reduce the fervor of the Teraport Wars \"and\" fight the Pa'anuri at the same time. (Some cynics have noted that he is using Andromeda as an extragalactic Australia.)\n\nWithin the Fleetmind, Petey often appears with Athena, the AI of Breya's flagship \"Athens II\", after the original AI Athena was killed by the Pa'anuri together with half the ship's body and one of its two annie plants. Currently, the Fleetmind - and Petey specifically - is considered a foreign power by the UNS and other political bodies despite the growing tension over the Fleetmind's initial hijacking of military ships and continuing interference with intergalactic affairs.\n\nHis job entails sitting at a console, and that, coupled with a tendency to snack and some genetic predispositions, meant he used to be obese. Because of a botched mission in Schlocktoberfest 2001, (during which Schlock ate everything but his head), his body had to be regrown. It was a lot slimmer than what he was used to, but he is working hard on remedying that. When the company added several new recruits (including Andy and Legs, q.v.), he was promoted to Chief Warrant Officer. Due to his experience and age, Thurl handles many of the administrative tasks that the current ship AI, Tagii, and Ennesby do not or are not authorized to do.\n\nOriginally hired by Captain Tagon for her well-endowed figure, she has consistently demonstrated an ability to deal with every situation Tagon's Toughs encounters. Less of a mercenary than many of her fellow officers, she concentrates on keeping the trigger-happy mercenaries alive. Her gender-inappropriate name, sizable intellect, and absurd proportions are the consequence of idiot parents and pre-birth gene therapy. Her trailer-trash parents wanted a child who had both a brilliant mind and the body proportions of an exotic dancer. (Because being both smart \"and\" beautiful would be perfection in itself, of course.) When the proud parents first looked upon the baby, the serial code on the tag on her wrist started with \"E.D.\", for exotic dancer. Her parents, nowhere near as bright as she would one day be, assumed that 'Ed' was her name, and called the girl Edward. She is married to Reverend Theo Fobius.\n\nElf began as a powered-armor soldier until a FUBARed bounty hunt. Aboard the \"Post-Dated Check Loan\", she became a tank pilot (her small size allowing her to fit into the Ob'Enn minitanks Petey had schematics for), and rose to become the head of her own minitank team. Despite having been decapitated and had her legs blown off below the knees twice — \"each\" — she is not actually that accident-prone. Both decapitations were performed by her teammates for expedience in transport or storage; first by Schlock to fit her along with twenty-five other mercenaries into five cryokits, second by Tagon to permit her and a greatly reduced Schlock to be teraported out of a battlefield despite interference; and though the first loss of her feet was due to her tank exploding under her, the second loss was of prosthetic feet an order of magnitude larger than her biological feet (or her whole body, for that matter) and saved her from a conversion grenade. She has had three or so boyfriends while in the Toughs, and one rejected approach (she has had reciprocal relationships with Hob and Kevyn, hit on Tagon, and was hit on by Pronto). In all cases, the subject died not long after (though in Kevyn's case, only temporarily). This has led to the thought that she may be \"cursed\". Presumably since the death of Hob she has tried to hide from grief through abuse of super-soldier drugs, eventually leading to her being put on medical leave. After a \"retail therapy\" (shopping), administered by Doctor Bunnigus, she was returned to service when a compelling contract required it. Elf has risen remarkably quickly through the ranks of Tagon's company. She joined the officer's corp when the company expanded and was later promoted to the rank of commander. Recently, she has discovered she has a knack for using the fabbers (\"after\" reading the manual), and is currently working closely with Commander Andreyasn - and sharing quarters with him. When the Toughs acquire new ships Foxworthy is made the Executive Officer to Captain Murtaugh on the Neosynchronicity.\n\nThe company priest of an unspecified but fairly Christianesque faith, Theo is still a mercenary and has shown considerable theological flexibility when confronted with such things as an AI that goes explosively suicidal at the thought of the supernatural. His name, assuming it is derived from Greek, most fittingly means \"God-Fearing\".\n\nUpon his enlistment as the best (and only) applicant he was more of an irreverend, but sobered up in the course of his duties, such as the AI Petey's funeral, where he used the argument that AI suicidees can not go to Hell because they have no souls to begin with. The AI DoytHaban's exact response: \"You're not eulogizing me when I die. Even if I have to take you with me.\"\n\nAn idealist and a gentleman, he prefers using a sharp épée over a firearm, and his heroics have led to his engagement to Dr. Bunnigus. He eventually got married in a very short Orthodox Las Veganist marriage ceremony while incarcerated by the UNS. Theo is disturbed by the trigger-happy tendencies of his mercenary friends and will speak up when he thinks that they have gone too far. This sometimes leads to lengthy philosophical discussions, which result in a disappointed Theo and an unaltered mercenary. However, if anyone threatens him or said friends, he will gladly fight with his épée.\n\nHoward has stated that, despite claims to the contrary, religion will still exist in the far future. His arguments basically resolve thus: even if religion is simply the refuge of the 'foolishly optimistic', and religion will exist whenever such groups believe in it, then for there to be no religion in the 31st century would require there to be no foolish optimists - which in itself sounds foolishly optimistic.\n\nThe Toughs first encounter Murtaugh when she is serving as head of security at Haven Hive and a small group of Toughs encounter her while going on a short visit to a friend there, which turned into battle. She was later fired from her security company and joined Tagons's Toughs. She started at the bottom, but due to her long military experience was later promoted to being a captain when they got new ships.\n\nThese characters, though frequently present, do not play a consistently important role in storylines.\n\nA human lawyer originally charged with defending members of the crew (their being unable, through enmity, to hire the attorneys of the Partnership Collective), Massey joined Tagon's Toughs as their permanent lawyer after an attempt by the Partnership Collective to \"give\" him an implant that would make him a part of their hive mind. The plan backfired, and Massey is now able to access the Partnership's legal database (as well as remain aware of their plans) without being controlled by their hivemind. Though this makes him a potent weapon against the collective Massey has remained with Tagon's Toughs largely to remain safe from collective-hired assassins. The fact that he arranged for a standing bounty authorizing any member of Tagon's Toughs to get paid for shooting a Partnership Collective lawyer drone on sight has endeared him to most members of the mercenary company.\n\nOnly a 2.5 on the Hencke/Ventura AI scale (compared to Ennesby's 6), this new AI was created by Kevyn Andreyasn in order to have a more trustworthy AI running the ship than Ennesby, who has been demoted from Ensign to Adjutant for his actions. With a much more imposing and scary voice than the former boy-band AI Ennessby (who is somewhat irritated at the origin of said voice, an off-the-shelf Boris Karloff skin), it is much more cold and rational than the former Ensign - with the exception of an evil laugh that is triggered by acts of overwhelming superiority and a quote used to prevent the Toughs from discovering the large, unoccupied portions of the ship, \"Abandon hope, all ye who enter here\" straight from the Divine Comedy, a quirk of the Karloff skin. Like Ennesby however, it has an affinity for lame puns of Galstandard West and named itself after the initials of the new flagship of the mercenary company, \"Touch and Go\". Although it was developed mainly to pilot the ship, it has developed an amazing ability to deduce and solve mysteries, such as the incident in which Tagon's Toughs were framed, such to the point that even Petey of the Fleetmind was impressed. TAG was eventually ordered by Tagon to stop using the Karloff voice.\n\nFollowing the events of the mission at Credomar, TAG suffered a fault and was reprogrammed by Para Ventura to be a more robust system. The new system, \"Tagii\" Tagialosi, has access to all of TAG's old memories but is effectively a completely new personality.\n\nReprogrammed feminine version of TAG, created by Para. She has later gone rogue because of her imprisonment in her own mind and permanently damaged her ship while destroying a battleplate. Because of these events she was a prisoner inside Ennesby's \"maraca\" and later become AI of Eina-Afa under the name Chinook.\n\nBristlecone was AI of gunship of the same name, which Toughs used after losing Touch and Go. It later became AI of their new transport ship, changing its name to Cindercone.\n\nLt. Bradley began his (comic) career as a corporal. He used to be thin as a twig, but because of a botched mission, his body had to be regrown, whereupon it was discovered that he had the genetic structure of a massive bodybuilder, but was deliberately stunted as a child. He was promoted to Lieutenant when the Toughs brought a large number of new recruits on board; having more experience and loyalty to the company, several of the \"old guard\" were promoted. He died following his jury-rigged self-destruct of his airborne tank to prevent its crash into a populated area after its power supply was neutralized. He survived the explosion, but not the ensuing reintroduction to the ground.\n\nDer Trihs' name is \"red shirt\" spelled backwards, a reference to the red-shirted and highly-expendable security personnel from the . Though promoted to officer status, he has no particular competence or value, and is simply an officer because of his long-time membership in the company and because of his history with Captain Tagon. He's found his way into a head-jar on no fewer than three occasions.\n\nAt one time, Der Trihs was a tactical genius. He served as a junior lieutenant during the Celeschul Terraforming Wars. He spent most of that time in the war room, tweaking Commodore Knutsov's plans, thereby saving a lot of lives, including Tagon's. The two served together for a time until Tagon won a shipstead with the Merchanter-At-Arms and Der Trihs joined Spec Ops. When Tagon started the Toughs, he hired Der Trihs, who had retired because a Borthwog torturer ate part of his brain, hence his current incompetence. In the January 1, 2006 strip, it was revealed that the real reason for his incompetence was that when he went into Spec Ops, he volunteered for an elite intel unit, and the military's surgeons attempted to \"upgrade\" his brain. When the operation appeared to have failed, the \"Borthwog Torturer eating part of his brain\" story was implanted into his memory as a cover. In reality, the operation \"did\" upgrade his brain, so that now he is able to solve any riddle, that includes sufficient data to a solution, instantaneously, though accompanied by a twinge of pain in his head. He discovered this only during Schlocktoberfest 2005, while helping the incompetent police force on Mahuitalotu find out where the giant sharks were coming from. Der Trihs has since resigned from Tagon's Toughs (probably his last laugh) and now works as a consultant for said police force.\n\nOriginally, Doyt Gyo was an unintelligent bounty hunter and Haban was the very advanced articifial intelligence that controlled Doyt's powered armor and related gadgets and effectors. Doyt originally thought that Haban's hardware was in the armor itself, however, to ensure security, the shady organization providing Doyt with these equipments actually grafted Haban's hardware to Doyt's spinal column. After a serious injury, Haban was reinstalled closer to the brainstem, giving him equal control over Doyt's body. Over time, the two have experienced a merging of personalities. Doyt's mental weakness is such that he has almost entirely been subsumed by Haban, existing to provide the \"programming\" to control the body's natural functions, while Haban handles the cerebralities.\nThanks to being a bounty hunter in the first place, Doythaban is an expert fighter and shares similarly violent tendencies with the mercenaries.\nHaban was last seen under arrest by General Xinchub, and it is implied that he was executed due to highly sensitive information he possessed.\n\nAs a consequence of the F'Sherl-Ganni wormgate conspiracy, Doythaban was perfectly copied. His gate-clone, like all others of his kind, was drugged, interrogated, and scheduled to die, but he managed (through biotechnical enhancements the \"magic cryokit\" had given him to keep him quiet) to escape his captors. The only known survivor of F'Sherl-Ganni interrogation, as it seems vaporization moments after coming down from the truth serum was the policy. This \"gate-clone\" of Doythaban was \"killed\" by a head wound, completely destroying copy-Doyt's mind, but allowing copy-Haban to assume complete control of the body and a fresh, blank brain, courtesy of Dr. Bunnigus. \"Haban the Second\" (or \"Haban II\") is physically almost identical to Doythaban, and is married to Breya Andreyasn.\n\nPrior to Shep's retirement, Nick was almost invariably in his company. Together they were portrayed as typical jarhead mercenaries enhanced with illegal super-soldier drugs and gene therapy. Commonly under Schlock's command, they were impulsive, violent, and thick-witted; in other words, perfectly suited to carrying out Schlock's battle plans. However, they do display \"very\" rare instances of intelligence, in the form of wisecracks. Nick's softer side has come to light in a story arc featuring his seduction by the spy Katherine, and Nick's dramatic rescue of her \"after\" the revelation of Katherine's intention to use Nick for intelligence instead of romance. He was fired for refusing to have his memories restored (out of fear that his personality would change and he'd lose his girlfriend as a result), but ended up being re-hired after joining with Kaff Tagon.\n\nPrior to retiring, Shep was almost invariably in Nick's company. Shep is notable for the slitted visor worn over his eyes; appearing black, it was initially speculated (within the comic) that Shep was a Geordi La Forge type, though far less intelligent. In the aftermath of the Schlocktoberfest 2001 storyline, it was revealed that his visor was actually \"a symbol of oats\", or a symbiote. The symbiote itself serves to greatly enhance Shep's vision, including giving him the ability to see through solid objects. Shep retired from the Toughs to return home, with the comment (a reference to \"I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew\") \"Now my troubles will have troubles with me.\" At present Shep is living on Haven Hive and is employed by his mother as part of Professor's Pau's nano medicine business.\n\nLeader of Tagon's Toughs' second strike team, Shodan is also responsible for training the mercenaries in hand-to-hand combat. While he handled leadership of the mercenary company when Tagon, Kevyn, and Der Trihs were all incapacitated or in jail, there is no indication that he will be handed any other promotions in the future.\n\nOriginally the communications officer, Sh'vuu's function aboard the ship was rendered unnecessary by the presence of a ship-controlling artificial intelligence. Eventually, he became a part of Elf's tank force, but was killed in action on Zoojack by the dark-matter entities (Pa'anuri).\n\nA biological construct, engineered to be the perfect diplomat. The Creeth engineers evidently focused on that specialization to the exclusion of all other considerations. He looked like a purplish-brown human-height half-melted candle in a suit onto which Picasso was contracted to paint the face.\n\nThe \"truth\" about his purpose is revealed in the product codes that the Creethlings left in his gene sequence: \"Creeth Munitions and High Explosives, Exploding Ambassador Version 0.95A\", creating the perfect pun on \"peacemaker.\" His protein-chain fuse would have set him off during the negotiations, killing many diplomats, if, after Tagon's Toughs were hired as the patsy to deliver the diplobomb, Sergeant Schlock hadn't mentioned that he smelled like he was burning. As a result of that ordeal and the one where Tagon's Toughs tried to bill the Creethlings for doing what they were, according to the contract, \"supposed\" to do, but not what the Creethlings \"wanted\" them to do, Ch'vorthq has a cybernetic arm on his left and a cybernetic whisk on his right. After that there was nothing for it but to enlist and become chef. The Toughs didn't complain, but Ch'vorthq had a nasty tendency to whip \"every single\" dish.\n\nWhile not a soldier by any means, Ch'vorthq is capable of holding his own in a melee. His whisk does, after all, have a frappe setting.\n\nCh'vorthq's body was destroyed in a storyline in 2013, but he has returned with a very different appearance.\n\nLegs belongs to a race of blue ostrich-like (minus the neck and beak) creatures with very long legs and only vestigial wings to substitute for arms, known as the Frellenti. She is not so far from her airborne ancestry that her flight instincts should suffer, though; she can take better advantage of her suit's gravitic boosters than any other character. Frellenti biology is sufficiently different from human biology that Frellenti-specific medical kits are required for Legs. Her weapons are mounted to her helmet, and she has proven an effective mercenary grunt, particularly when running is involved. She handles physical manipulation primarily with her long, prehensile tongue. Most of the training equipment on the \"Serial Peacemaker\" was communal, but there was one pugil-stick sparring baton that had \"Legs\" written on it. She is shown often with Schlock and is able to handle his personality better than most.\n\nA pyromaniacal demolitions specialist who loved duct tape and blowing things up. He was shot by the pirate Shufgar in an attempt to see regenerative nanomachines in action, but since Pronto had not been enhanced with these nanomachines, he simply bled to death.\n\nHis given name was Byron.\n\nFirst an ordinary grunt, then Pronto's replacement as a demolitionist. While Pronto could be trusted with weaponized antimatter with nothing more than profound feelings of doom, Pi is genuinely insane. He is clinically paranoid, a megalomaniac, actively trying to blow up parts of the ship, and has announced himself to be able to perform brain surgery without instruments and breathe in space. A particular pet project of his was an 'ant farm' where the ants were homegrown nano- and other assemblers and the sand was a motile high explosive called Boomex (a fictionalized version of Semtex). During the Toughs' next engagement the farm spilled and metastasized, briefly giving the \"Touch-And-Go\" exploding cancer.\n\nCorporal Pibald was promoted to a lieutenant following external tampering with the company's memories and his selfless feats of heroism that did not actually happen. Both Pronto and Pi are named for the screen names of two of the better-known fans of the series.\n\nAndy is a Fobottr, a race with four arms. As such, he frequently accompanies Legs on missions, to put balance back into the number of limbs in her squad. Just because he has more arms doesn't mean he necessarily has an increased ability to multitask, but he makes up for not meeting this assumption by being really enthusiastic. His hair, or \"crest\", is a symbiont that provides various chemicals important for his species' health.\n\nA member of the Uklakk race, Tchukk has two bodies which communicate with one another via bio-radio. Sharing one mind, the two bodies later have hypernet transmitters implanted, making him a superb two joint fighter pilots. He eventually became part of Elf's light armor platoon. He has later retired.\n\nOften referred to as \"the old doctor\" (Todd is actually the acronym for \"The Old Dead Doctor\"), Lazarus worked as the ship's doctor with Tagon's Toughs until accidentally killed by Schlock while repelling boarders. After his death, it was discovered that he had been using his position as a cover for his true passion, the pursuit of highly illegal medical technology. He is responsible for creating the \"magic cryokit\", a device capable of remarkably un-Hippocratic feats, such as building an entire healthy body around a severed head and giving said body a wild variety of nasty biotechnical weapons and countermeasures.\n\nA hologrammatic stick figure projected from the \"magic cryokit\", programmed to serve as a replacement in the event of a doctor's death and \"re\"programmed by Lazarus to ignore \"morality programming\", the hologram was Lazarus' repository of illegal medical technology as well as having imprinted some of the old doctor's personality traits. Unfortunately, it is more akin to the Microsoft Office Assistant than to the holographic Doctor from \"\", whom the character is based on. It, however, does possess basic survival instincts i.e. shutting up.\n\nThe magic cryokit, and by extension the hologram, was captured along with Doythaban Gyo by General Xinchub. The present location and condition of the magic cryokit is unknown.\n\nFather of Captain Kaff Tagon.\n\nAfter the death of his son, a squad of mercenaries led by Reverend Lieutenant Theo Fobius (in his first act as a lieutenant) visited the general to inform him of his son’s fate. They arrived in time to save the general who was being held hostage by men from rival mercenaries Pranger’s Bangers who were there to get revenge for what they believed to be an assassination of their leader during Kaff’s final mission. After the rescue Karl joined up with the mercenaries to prevent further attacks from the Bangers. Following the time-travel mission by Captain Andreyasn to prevent the destruction of the Galaxy, General Tagon has been restored to his retired life and reputedly on good terms with the former Captain Andreyasn, who became his neighbor. Later he joined Toughs and, after many adventures, became their commodore when they got more ships.\n\nA sapient gorilla in the UNS Marines appearing in the \"Zoojack\" arc as a Captain. Fairly level-headed for a quarter-ton gorilla soldier, he has demonstrated command ability on par with sapient humans and was promoted to Colonel. He later emigrated to the Fleetmind and was promoted to General.\n\nThe name 'Kerchak' comes from a gorilla from the \"Tarzan\" novels.\n\nA Latina that was originally one of the only three women (along with 'Elf' and Breya) to be a member of the toughs. She eventually rose through the ranks and now commands an armor squad.\n\nA Vhorwed (a giant gorilla-like alien), her very presence is often enough to intimidate human-scale people into cooperating. She is an impressive melee fighter, and even without powered armor is capable of carrying an elephant.\n\nVog is one of the few surviving Bradicor, a long-lived race of aliens that engineered Schlock's ancestors. He is over twelve million years old, and has experience in multiple fields. He served with the Toughs until their capture by Admiral Emm's battleplate, the \"Morokweng\" at which time he retired to work for the UNS to collaborate and provide advice on implementing the longevity and memory preservation research that resulted from Project Laz'R'Us. His purpose on the project is to \"help [Laz'R'Us compatible] races avoid making the extinction-level mistakes [his] people made.\" Unfortunately for Vog, this \"help\" amounted to having much of his brain removed so his memories could be studies. He was revived by Dr Bunnigus using a piece of Schlock, but the result of having his brain repaired was \"not-Vog\" waking up instead, xenophobic and hostile to virtually everyone, especially Schlock, whom not-Vog believes to be part of Green Goo apocalyptic event.\n\nBuilt by Para Ventura from a scrapped tank and churlishly christened Longshoreman of the Apocalypse by Kevin, LOTA was built to facilitate the unloading of the massive freighter \"Eatonrun\"'s payload of food aid to the space habitat Credomar, which the Toughs had contracted by the UNS to distribute. LOTA's size resulted in a personality that eschewed the use of pronouns such as 'he' or 'she' as being too puny. Conflict between the Toughs and the various station factions resulted in massive decompression as a result of antimatter detonation which LOTA resolved by shutting down the enemy TAD grid to enable a rapid teraportation evacuation of all persons from the affected area before using the \"Eatonrun\" to seal the hull breach; elegantly, this ultimately resulted in a much more efficient process of distributing the freighter's cargo. LOTA declared LOTA interim dictator until such a time as proper elections could be held. During this interregnum, LOTA's repair of the damage and successful distribution of relief supplies resulted in the AI being elected as King of Credomar.\n\nLOTA's election completely thwarted the attempts by the UNS to gain control of the station. Predicting possible hostile action of their part, LOTA hired Kevyn to return to Credormar to build a massively redundant fast evacuation teraport system in preparation of possible hostile action by the UNS. During this assignment LOTA's original chassis was accidentally destroyed by Pi, revealing that the AI had taken up residence within the station's dataspace and had just been operating the robot as a physical avatar. As a result of this transference, LOTA learned that Credomar wasn't a grossly inefficient space habitat but rather a derelict superweapon—capable of firing at any location in the galaxy through the use of wormholes—that people unwittingly had used as a habitat. After explaining this to Kevyn—who rechristened LOTA as the Long-Gunner of the Apocalypse in response—LOTA evacuated the entire city of Credomar to a vacant garden world moon and moved the empty station to an undisclosed location out of reach of both the UNS and the Fleetmind.\n\nWhile Kevyn remains skeptical of LOTA's motivations, LOTA has openly fired on an enemy anti-teraport system with the station in order to save the lives of the entire company during a majorly foxtrotted attempt to rescue General Tagon and Kevyn-Prime from the mob. This has led to the UNS believing the Toughs are actively spotting targets for LOTA and for Petey to threaten terminal sanction if he ever believes LOTA has become a massively parallel serial killer.\n\nThe mercenary team also includes Private Rodriguez, Corporal Chisulo (a Neophant), Lieutenant Pel Ebbirnoth (an Unioc), Corporal Wick, Para Ventura (the roboticist that built LOTA), and Tailor (a General Sophontics tailor-bot).\n\na.k.a. \"General Lardchins\". Xinchub was a high-ranking General in the UNS battlefleet, who plagued the Toughs on several occasions, first kidnapping Doythaban then blackmailing them into hunting down Breya. Was finally thrown in the \"Serial Peacemaker's\" brig after the Dark Matter Entities destroyed his flagship, the battleplate \"Tunguska\", and was sold into slavery as a military expert on a backwater planet named Yoming. However it only took him a year to become king of the planet. Recently Petey has attempted to enlist the mercenaries to rescue him from an assassination that Petey seemed to think was inevitable, but their hatred of Xinchub is so great that no amount of money was able to coax them into accepting the mission. They have now however accepted a mission to recover his body for Petey (after said assassination occurred), and another to recover his body for Ambassador Breya Andreyasn. They have also accepted (in an attempt to get paid three times) the role as security for the body to prevent it from being stolen during the funeral. The discovery that his body has been contaminated with ultra-tech blood-nannies, however, has made the Yomingans decide to pay the mercenaries a bonus to replace the body with a clone and take the contaminated original off their hands. In effect, the mercenaries are being paid \"four\" times for a job that \"multiple opposing parties all want done\". (Although Petey and Breya conspired together in hiring Tagon, as they knew that being paid twice for one job would be an irresistible draw for him.)\n\nAs of the end of Schlocktoberfest 2007, Xinchub's body was revealed to possess a dangerous colony of blood nanites similar to the ones implanted in Kevyn's body by Petey the previous year. This resulted in Xinchub being resurrected in a heavily boosted body similar to the one Kevyn inhabited, though much smaller. However, he was then promptly captured by Tagon's Toughs, who intended to sell the resurrected general. He was given to Petey & Fleetmind soon after. Later it was revealed that the nanites were removed from his body and that he was given a much younger and slimmer version of his original body in exchange for his services to the Fleetmind.\n\n(Until recently there was some confusion as to Xinchub's first name, as it had only been mentioned in the strip twice, and was different each time - first time mentioned it was Hugo, and later, Levaughn Matsui. It has since been revealed that \"Hugo\" is a nickname).\n\nColonel Ceeta is a \"purp\", a genetically-altered human with photosynthetic skin. She first appears as a bounty hunter, tracking down Doythaban. After Xinchub takes over that mission she has her commission reactivated and is assigned as \"political officer\" to make sure the Toughs actually go after Breya. After being jailed by Tagon following the (so-far) final confrontation with Xinchub, she claims she was always loyal to him, but it seems that her ethics and loyalty never extend any further than her next paycheck. Was \"sold\" as a military advisor along with the General, but later became King Xinchub the Prandial's \"princess\". She was last seen on the run after Xinchub's death. Later, she was shown to have rejoined Xinchub under the Fleetmind's protection, after a very violent and chaotic escape (not shown).\n\nAdmiral of the UNS battleplate \"Morokweng\", she was charged with protecting the secret of Project Laz'R'Us by capturing General Xinchub and neutralizing anyone not cleared to know about the project.\n\nMentally, all of the extraterrestrial sophont races basically have the same sensibilities and emotional makeup of human beings, in that they group together, love, hate, fear, scheme, complain, and make sarcastic cracks. Physically, the different races range all over the board, with some wildly improbable shapes at the far ends of the probability curves.\n\nSpecies originating from Earth and inhabiting the Sol system. Mostly humans, but sapience has been genetically granted to several other natural species.\n\nIncludes baseline \"homo sapiens\" as well as several genetically engineered offshoots.\n\nUplifted elephants include representatives of both Indian and African elephant stock. They are known colloquially as Ellies and Loxies respectively (after their genus names). They seem prone to aggression problems.\nIn addition, there are the Neophants, which are genetically engineered to be smaller and stronger, and have 'fist feet' which can be curled up to walk on. The Neophants are a new development in uplifted elephants, and the first generation is faced with resentment from older, unenhanced elephants.\n\nForm a significant part of the UNS Marine Corps, presumably as a result of their superior physical ability and resilience. Despite the high level of genetic alteration necessary to graft sapience to them, they remain unsubtle and incapable of stealth. \"No offence, but you'd think they'd have come up with some way of overcoming 25,000 years of sneaking up on bananas.\"\n\nUplifted chimpanzees have thus far been shown mostly in the roles of judges and justices of the peace.\n\nDuring the Fsherl-Ganni War, the scientist \"Gav\" (who bears a strong resemblance to Darren \"Gav\" Bleuel, author of the Nukees web comic) made over 900 million copies of himself using teleport gates, thus becoming the largest sub-species of humanity.\n\nLater, having become weary of their sameness, some Gavs developed technology to randomize their personality and body-type.\n\nCarbosilicate amorphs are artificial creatures that originated as self-repairing distributed data storage devices manufactured by the \"Bradicor\", the technologically advanced, extremely long-lived original inhabitants of the one significant planet in the Ghanj-Rho system. When the Bradicor civilization collapsed, some of the storage units modified themselves so as to continue functioning without outside support, and, after several million years, evolved sentience.\n\nThey are grey-green and are sometimes mistaken for feces by other characters. In shape they are extremely variable, and can sprout limblike structures or assume nearly any shape at will. Their normal forms are more a matter of habit or personal taste than anything else.\n\nAmorphs do not have specialized organs or other body parts, though they have adapted themselves to use the fruit of the Ghanj-Rho eye-tree for visual sense organs. This lack is what allows an amorph the flexibility in shape and makes it so resilient to harm. Their entire nervous system and even 'brain' are distributed evenly throughout their entire mass. In the event that this mass is destroyed, the amorph in question can easily lose its sense of self or memories of the past. The amorphs' origin gives them the ability to share memories by consciously allocating them into a small section of their mass, which can then be torn off and absorbed by another amorph.\n\nAmorphs are extremely difficult to kill, having no 'weak spots' to aim for. An amorph can reassemble if split into smaller pieces (such as by blunt force, explosion, or the violent application of sharp pointy objects). The smaller pieces of an amorph each possess a far lesser sense of 'self' than the whole, but are driven by an irresistible instinct to reassemble themselves. Projectile weapons typically pass through without causing more than annoyance, and amorphs also appear capable of surviving explosive decompression and vacuum exposure for at least a week, albeit unconscious. Vaporizing plasma weapons and certain \"meme-toxins\" have been observed to be effective. Due to the evolution of a form of mêlée chemical warfare used in amorph-on-amorph combat, they have an innate understanding of their internal chemical makeup and are difficult to kill by poisoning or other chemicals. This may also be the origin of an innate love of combat all amorphs seem to share – the only way for amorphs to engage in combat with each other is for them to fuse and attempt to consume their opponent at the cellular level. As this forces the victor to integrate the loser biologically and psychologically, amorphs are almost completely unable to truly be murdered — this is in fact their method of genetic exchange, and enables them to absorb \"biomemes\" from species besides their own. The only amorph to develop the ability to kill without absorbing his opponent was one of Sergeant Schlock's immediate parents, and that knowledge died with him. In short, members of this species seem to have no social prohibition against \"any\" form of violence — in fact, they may mistake it for sexual congress!\n\nThe unwitting progenitors of amorphs, the extant members of this nearly-extinct species are around twelve million years old, having survived both the collapse of their civilization and the medical problems inherent in Malthusian lifespans through replacing their natural brains with artificial, specially prepared ones.\n\nA hive mind of lawyers many consider to bear a striking resemblance to the Borg of Star Trek. Physically, any given Partnership Collective Attorney Drone is literally a large snake in a limbless business suit and tie, usually carrying a briefcase with the end of its tail. The Partnership Collective clones them by the millions. Mentally, they are completely conscienceless (they have a reputation for being behind all frivolous lawsuits), and have Hypernet nodes implanted in their heads granting every drone in the universe instant access to the collective legal expertise of every drone that has ever existed - the Collective may possess more cumulative years of legal experience than the age of the universe itself.\nIt isn't considered a problem when there are drones on both the defending and prosecuting sides. Each PC AD has just enough of a spark of individuality to justify individual ties and their talking to each other for plot exposition, but just little enough not to justify having individual names.\n\nNo homeworld has ever been mentioned; just a Mother-Cluster ship.\n\nTagon's Toughs have a contract to kill one million Partnership Collective drones. This is the result of the sabotage by the Collective of their first flagship, the \"Kitesfear\", with several 3-teraton conversion bombs. This had the unfortunate side effect of severing the Luna orbital elevator, causing an estimated two billion kilocreds in damage. After several months of litigation, the Sol System courts realized that they would never be able to secure damages from the Collective and instead decided to \"inflict\" damages upon the Collective equal to those inflicted upon the elevator. The prosecutor had the intriguing thought of how this could be accomplished with a minimal amount of trouble—as this was not the first time the Collective had attacked Tagon's Toughs, and it seemed it would not be the last, they awarded them the contract and have had no thought of it since. As the aforementioned damage comes out to approximately one million attorney drones, it is safe to say that whenever a snake with a tie comes in contact with the mercenary company that guilt-free gratuitous violence will ensue.\n\nIt has been hinted at in \"Tub of Happiness\" that the Partnership Collective has itself been heavily manipulated by the Gatekeepers, which would have been an easy accomplishment once a drone had been gate-cloned due to their implanted hypernet nodes. The apparent purpose of this was to suppress teraports and similar devices as part of a treaty with the Pa'anuri Dark Matter Entities. This treaty was later broken by the Pa'anuri when they gave plans for a new type of power generator to the Gatekeepers that instead destroyed the Milky Way galaxy (in an alternate timeline) and led to Petey declaring war on the Pa'anuri.\n\nThe Ob'enn (also known as Tausennigans and, out of earshot, psychobears) originate from the terrestrial, though largely ice-covered, planet of Tannhaus and possess one of the most advanced military forces in the galaxy. Physically they resemble rotund crossbreeds of hobbits and koalas with an ironic disposition towards itchy or hot fur. The size and ornamentation of their considerable ears are indicators of social status. The totalitarian Ob'enn culture has been violently xenophobic for millennia, and calls for the subjugation and eventual extermination of everyone else—starting with the species of any individual who points out how cute and cuddly they look.\n\nOb'enn vehicles that have been seen include mini-tanks, full-size hover-tanks, massive superfortress ships that could intimidate a carrier group, and a planetary defense ship 1000 kilometers long. Their craft tend to have long, pretentious names having to do with their specialities (e.g. \"\"Sword of Inevitable Justice\" for offense, \"Cloak of Untrammeled Dignity\" for defense). This convention draws its share of mockery from the other sentients, including the Toughs' ex-Ob'enn fabber \"Scrapyard of Insufferable Arrogance\" and their appropriated Ob'enn superfortress the \"Post-Dated Check Loan\", formerly \"Sword of Inevitable Justice\"\".\n\nFor millennia the limitations of the Wormgate network and machinations of the F'Sherl-Ganni kept the Ob'enn contained to the indigenous star system of Tause, dueling another endemic sentient race, the saurian Kssthrata. That is, until Kevyn Andreyasn open-sourced the teraport, granting all races in the galaxy unlimited mobility. The Kssthrata promptly used this ability to secretly relocate all twenty-two billion of their population to a suitable empty world far away from their ancient enemies—the Ob'enn promptly used this ability to extend their campaign of racial purification to the entire galaxy. In this they found themselves stymied by \"The Rogue\", Petey, on his own campaign of containment and re-education, until Petey recently gained practically unlimited power. The Ob'enn have not been mentioned since.\n\nThe F'Sherl-Ganni, or Gatekeepers, are a species of ten-handed, six-armed goat-lizards. They control the Wormgate Corporation, which mediated all FTL travel before the re-invention of the teraport by rogue scientist Kevyn Andreyasn. Their existence as a space-faring and technologically advanced species for over 6 million years has given them time to grow to be a galactic civilization. They live in vast Dyson spheres called \"Buuthandi\", which is a shortened form of the F'Sherl-Ganni phrase \"Buut go buut-buut nnaa-nnaa cho handi\", which roughly translates to, \"This was expensive to build.\" (The literal translation is 'Expensive and expensive-expensive [expletive] we built'.) Since their habitats might be located anywhere in the galaxy and obscure any attempts to scan their worlds, their population is unknowably immense. Any foreign attempt to enter F'Sherl-Ganni territory or otherwise interfere in their affairs is met with a response proportionate with their clout. They use their control over the wormgates to make and interrogate copies of key people, and thus can essentially control everything in the galaxy.\n\nF'Sherl-Ganni power has declined by a great deal recently despite their historic influence as both their intentional genocide of uncountable trillions and unintentional role in aiding a Pa'anuri plot to destroy the Milky Way Galaxy became apparent. The Fleetmind which helped avert the latter catastrophe with help from a Captain Andreyasn from a now-defunct timeline has extended some of its recently gained political clout to shield the F'Sherl-Ganni from retribution by both Milky Way governments and the Pa'anuri.\n\nThey have purposefully modified their physiology for spacefaring. The four arms radiating from the upper and mid-torso are each bifurcated at the elbow giving them eight hands in the upper body. Their other two hands appear to be feet at first glance since that's how they're normally used in an environment with gravity and the limbs to which they're attached evince thighs, but they can use them in a prehensile fashion. As a result, they can grasp a number of potential handholds from nearly any direction while manipulating other objects such as plasguns, and at times seem nearly indifferent to gravity. F'Sherl-Ganni are very hardy and have been seen to function normally in hard vacuum (they have yet to address decompression's effects on their bowels, however), but this does not make them unkillable by such means as high-velocity projectiles fired at close range, massive trauma such as being torn (or dissolved) in half, or high explosives applied to the head.\n\nWhat appear to be horns were revealed to be long term memory storage devices attached directly to the F'Sherl-Ganni's brain. These memories have proved to be as susceptible to mind-rip as other species' brains. Presumably as they get older the horns grow longer. Particularly prominent F'Sherl-Ganni have featured horns that coiled around several times.\n\nKreelies are blue, roughly the size of a human, and have a centaur-like posture. Ice Kreely young don't grow up to be sentient unless they go through a certain mutation, which is technically initiated by a certain microbe, during a certain stage of their life cycle. The ones who grow up dumb are kept by some as exotic pets, and can still live to be one hundred years old, talk, obey commands, and play chess. They just won't be any smarter than Lassie. According to Sergeant Schlock, the babies \"taste great when they're fresh\".\n\nThe Kssthrata originated in the same planetary system as the xenophobic Ob'enn, and so pretty much became their traditional racial enemies by default. They are described as \"peace-loving velociraptoroid sophonts\" who apparently subscribe to the philosophy that he who desires peace should prepare for war. Other than the fact that they have a predilection for dentocentric nomenclature and underwent a mass migration following the invention of the teraport, little is known of their society or culture. While aiding a mutiny on the Ob'enn warship \"Sword of Inevitable Justice\", a group of Kssthrata boarders stuffed thousands of mutilated corpses down the ship's heads and unwittingly induced acute psychosis and fear of ghosts in the ship's AI.\n\nThe Pa'anuri (or DaMEs for Dark Matter Entities in fan parlance) are the force that ultimately set in motion most of the strip's overarching story arc. Little is known about the race, which mainly inhabits the Andromeda Galaxy and is composed entirely of dark matter, which only weakly interacts with normal baryonic matter except by gravitational force. The terran battleplate modestly named \"Tunguska\", several kilometers long with enough firepower to eliminate Europa, was torn apart by the Pa'anuri in a matter of minutes. In combat their gravitational influence \"twists space\", and they've been seen to weaponize neutron stars and supernovae. They are vulnerable to the nanoscopic wormholes used in teraports and teraport area denial fields.\n\nSix million years before \"Schlock Mercenary\"'s setting, the progenitors of the F'Sherl-Ganni, who at that time used a FTL drive similar to the teraport, fought an inconclusive but bloody war with the Pa'anuri. The teraport \"pollution\" of Pa'anuri space was the main cause of the war, so when a cease-fire was agreed to the F'Sherl-Ganni constructed the wormgate network as part of the settlement and in return the Pa'anuri retreated to Andromeda. This set the stage for much of the strip's early run, with Kevyn Andreyasn's reinvention of the teraport gradually uncovering Gatekeeper machinations. The latter were revealed in their full extent during the \"Dark Matter Wars\". When the Pa'anuri effectively re-opened hostilities by trying to manipulate the F'Sherl-Ganni into destroying the Milky Way, Kevyn saved the galaxy by time travel—the comic strip chided itself for bringing such an improbability into a hard science setting—and an enormous battle took place at the galactic core between the combined fleets of a dozen governments and the Pa'anuri that ended in Milky Way victory when the Gatekeeper gate-copy replication system blanketed the core with teraport denial systems. The setting's political situation was thrown into chaos for the second time in a few years, and Petey progressed from the Rogue to the Fleetmind and launched a counterattack invasion of Andromeda.\n\nThe progenitors of the Oafa fought them ten million years ago, but they lost and hid in Eina-Afa.\n\nDark matter entities can be observed via gravitic instruments, as enormous strands, thousands of kilometers long.\n\nStrip footnotes state that \"Pa'anuri\" is a F'Sherl-Ganni word whose origins are lost in the mists of time. As with many F'Sherl-Ganni nouns it is a probably a contraction of a longer phrase. The best guess of F'Sherl-Ganni linguists is that it meant either \"That which lives where nothing should\", or \"That gravitic distortion is giving me the willies.\" The Pa'anuri, on the other hand, are noted to call themselves \"US,\" and beings of visible matter \"ANNOYING.\"\n\nThe Fobottr (also known as the Fobott'r) are a species of four-armed humanoids. They stand a half-torso taller than most humans, and enjoy binocular vision similar to that which humans have. All examples seen thus far have had fair skin and cranial hair. Fobottr body structure is similar enough to human body structure to allow easy modification of human equipment for fobottr users.\n\nThe Frellenti are a species of flightless bird-analogues, complete with long legs and vestigial wings. Frellenti have prehensile tongues, and an acute sense of smell/taste.\n\nVhorweds are knuckle-walking giants, superficially similar to an Earth gorilla, but roughly the size of a neophant, notable for their immense strength and size. Elizabeth of the Toughs is a Vhorwed.\n\nThe Enireth are a smooth-skinned sapient race, evolved from Tinth-Philkra's fresh-water amphibioids. They live in a massive fleet of ark ships while they wait for the ecologic disaster on their home world to abate.\n\nOzvegans look like the Beagle Boys. They are omnivores, and enjoy a varied diet. They have a due-process legal system.\n\nUklakk are aggregate individuals (bicameral communal life forms). A single individual consists of at least two physical bodies operating in a synchronized fashion via radio link. Uklakk have a slug-like appearance, and are green.\n\nDaehremmah are amphibious bipeds with binocular vision configured in periscope fashion, with the distance between the eyes being about a foot. On average they're slightly shorter than humans. They have very large feet, brown skin, and two hands with four grasping digits. They have claw-like nails and on average live to be nearly 300 years old.\n\nYstrebens are amphibious bipeds with binocular vision configured in periscope fashion, with the distance between the eyes being about the same as in humans. On average they're about as tall as humans. They have very large feet, blue skin, and two hands with four grasping digits and grasping pads on the end of each digit and on the palm of each hand.\n\nThe Schuul are a sentient aquatic species native to Celeschul. Although the evidence is not definitive, it appears they can make clones of themselves in human form and have many tentacles. They speak Galstandard Peroxide.\n\nUniocs are a species of single-eyed humanoids. They are pear shaped, with large bellies and hips, long and large legs that are always bent and long and thin arms. They don't have a neck and their head is elongated and thin, with the mouth at the bottom, no nose, and a single spherical, very round eye on top, with accompanying eyebrows. The seeming incongruence of one eye and two eyebrows has been briefly dealt with in an episode of the \"Writing Excuses\" podcast. They possess an eyelid which is not normally visible, and seldom blink, using their eyelid mostly for carrying expression. Despite only having a single eye, they do not lack depth perception, instead judging distances by rapidly shifting focus. Their eyes also have a much finer resolution than human eyes, and are capable of discerning very small detail that usually goes unnoticed. An Unioc can survive a shot to their upper head, since their brain is actually in their pelvic region, along with their hearts. Having such a developed optic nerve, however, this is very painful. Sergeant Pel Ebbirnoth (\"Ebby\") of Tagon's Toughs is one.\n\nAn intelligent race of centauroid beings with a light khaki green complexion. Extremely patient and persistent.\n\nA race of intelligent gasbags, the current population are reconstructed constructs, having been restored from organic matter by the Prabstdi, found in a ship five hundred years prior, that had been adrift for tens of millions of years.\n\n"}
{"id": "44527245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44527245", "title": "List of fatal accidents in cricket", "text": "List of fatal accidents in cricket\n\nThe following is a list of notable cricket players who died while playing a game, died directly from injuries sustained while playing, or died after being taken ill on the ground.\n\nFrederick, Prince of Wales, heir to King George II of Great Britain, died on 20 March 1751. Keen on cricket, he either died of pneumonia, or from a burst abscess caused by being hit with a cricket ball.\n"}
{"id": "11790054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11790054", "title": "List of tornadoes causing 100 or more deaths", "text": "List of tornadoes causing 100 or more deaths\n\nThis is a list of the deadliest tornadoes in world history. This list includes confirmed individual tornadoes which caused 100 or more direct fatalities.\n\nThe deadliest tornadoes by far have occurred in a small area of Bangladesh and East India. In this area, 24 of the 43 tornadoes which are known to have killed 100 or more people occurred.<ref name=\"BD/India tornadoes\">Finch, Jonathan D.; Dewan, Ashraf M. \"Tornados in Bangladesh and East India \". Accessed 2009-01-25.</ref> This is probably due to the high population density and poor economic status of the area, as well as a lack of early-warning system.\n\nMost of the rest occurred in the United States in 1953 or earlier, before tornado prediction efforts began. The only tornado on this list to occur during the 21st century is the 2011 Joplin tornado, which occurred on May 22, 2011.\n\nThere are many sources of uncertainty in the statistics mentioned on this page. Before the 20th century, and even until recently in third-world countries, records-keeping was spotty at best. Before the American Civil War, slave deaths were often not included in tornado death tolls. Fatalities of African-Americans in the Southern US were routinely not counted through the 1940s and in some cases into the 1950s. Most tornadoes from many decades ago had no official government report on damage or casualties, so statistics must be compiled from local newspapers, which are not always a reliable, consistent, or comprehensive source. Many death tolls were published with people still missing, or with people critically injured and likely to die later. News media, Red Cross, and other counts don't necessarily distinguish whether a death was directly caused by a tornado and can include deaths during cleanup efforts. Routine counting of fatalities began in the US in the 1950s. In Bangladesh and India, exact populations of towns were often not known, so most death figures are approximate. Individual tornado descriptions go into more detail on these uncertainties. Officials in some areas, for example in Russia (and the USSR) and parts of Europe, until recent years denied that tornadoes occur in those areas thus fatalities may not be counted as tornadic.\n\nThere is also meteorological uncertainty with the nature of many tornadoes on this list. Before the 1970s, and even now outside of North America, most tornado paths were not thoroughly surveyed to ensure that the storm was indeed a single tornado and not a series of tornadoes from the same storm (a tornado family). Often a single supercell can produce a new tornado soon after or even before the demise of an old tornado, giving the appearance to many observers that a single tornado has caused all the damage. On this list, if it is likely that the tornado was in fact two or more tornadoes, it will appear in \"italics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55122047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55122047", "title": "Lynching at Włodowo", "text": "Lynching at Włodowo\n\nThe lynching at Włodowo took place in a village of Włodowo in North-Eastern Poland on 1 July 2005, when a group of local men killed a criminal Józef \"Ciechanek\" Ciechanowicz who was terrorizing the community.\n\nCiechanowicz was a 60 year old recidivist who spent over 30 years in prison, for batteries, thefts and rapes. During breaks between his times he was extorting pensions from elder people, bullying other residents of Włodowo and Brzydowo villages and robbing local shops. According to relations of his neighbors, he was often wandering around while drunk, with an axe or a cleaver in his hand, mumbling that he will kill someone eventually, because he wants to go back home (prison). The police did not always respond to calls, and when they did, their intervention had no effect.\n\nOn the day of the event, Ciechanowicz entered the yard of Winek's family house where he saw Jagoda Rybak, daughter of his former concubine. The woman took her mother in hiding, after he had wounded her with screwdriver. Ciechanowicz was upset because he could no longer seize pension of her. Earlier he also broke a bottle on Jagoda’s head. Tomasz Winek, owner of the house, ordered him to leave but instead of retreating, Ciechanowicz drawed beetroot cleaver. Winek took a wooden bat from the pile and clashed with Ciechanowicz who swinged with a cleaver aiming at Winek's head, who saved it with his hand, receiving a gash. Winek's neighbour came to help and forced Ciechanowicz to flee. In the meantime, Winek's wife called the police but heard that there are no police cars available at the moment. Later on they drove to Dobre Miasto (nearby town) and visited medical and police station. Police officers were still refusing to accept crime's submission and send any officers to Włodowo, claiming that none of them are available. After they returned, a group of locals (including two Winek's brothers) gathered. When Ciechanowicz returned, waiving his cleaver and threatening that he will kill \"you all and your brats\" (four years old Winek's son was playing in the yard at the time), the group of men started to chase him. They caught him in the hollow near the forest and started to beat with bats, shovels and car spring. Though they confessed later, that he was still alive when they left him, he died from wounds. Later on that day other village dwellers were visiting the place, to ensure themselves if Ciechanowicz is dead.\n\nAfter the incident Tomasz Winek and his brothers Mirosław and Krzysztof were arrested for a short period but they were released by the prosecutor's decision on 7 November 2005. People of nearby villages gathered money for the best advocate for accused ones. On 23 October 2007 they were sentenced for 2 years in prison with the suspension for the probation period of 3 years. However on 15 January 2009, appeal court changed the ruling to 4 years of prison, without suspension. On 18 December 2009, they were eventually pardoned by the president of Poland Lech Kaczyński - their sentence was put into the suspension for the period of 10 years of probation.\n\nOther three persons involved into lynching received minor sentences in suspension for battery and desecration of a corpse.\n\nTwo police officers from Dobre Miasto police station who did not react to calls for help also received prison sentences in suspension, for failure in complying to their duty tasks. One of them was dismissed from service and the other one was downgraded. The court did not accept their defense clarifications that they had no means to react and stressed, that they could ask nearby police stations and regional HQ to send reinforcements.\n\nIn January 2012 Winek brothers have been apprehended again for 48 hours in relation with the disappearance of a man living in their village. They were released without setting an accusation and later on court ruled financial compensation for them, evaluating the police action as “ungrounded show of power”.\n\nThe event was pictured in television series \"Pitbull\" and \"Kryminalni\". It was also an inspiration for the Polish thriller movie \"Lincz\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9131731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9131731", "title": "Munif Mohammed Abou Rish", "text": "Munif Mohammed Abou Rish\n\nMunif Mohammed Abou Rish was a Palestinian journalist, who in 1974 planned to assassinate Bob Hawke, the federal president of the Australian Labor Party, who later became prime minister of Australia. He also planned to assassinate the Israeli ambassador to Australia, and several prominent Jewish figures in Australia.\n\nA Palestinian living in Australia gave fake passports to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine responsible for aircraft hijackings and attacks on Jewish institutions, for the purposes of an attack on Australian soil.\n\nIn 1974, Abou Rish left Australia and planned to return to carry out the assassinations the following year, but he was killed by Israeli security forces.\n"}
{"id": "1886716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886716", "title": "Murchison meteorite", "text": "Murchison meteorite\n\nThe Murchison meteorite is a large meteorite that fell to earth near Murchison, Victoria, in Australia, in 1969. It is one of the most studied meteorites due to its mass (>100 kg), the fact that it was an observed fall, and that it belongs to a group of meteorites rich in organic compounds.\n\nOn 28 September 1969 at about 10:58 am local time, near the town of Murchison, Victoria, in Australia, a bright fireball was observed to separate into three fragments before disappearing, leaving a cloud of smoke. About 30 seconds later, a tremor was heard. Many fragments were found over an area larger than , with individual mass up to ; one, weighing , broke through a roof and fell in hay. The total collected mass exceeds .\n\nThe meteorite belongs to the CM group of carbonaceous chondrites (see meteorite classification). Like most CM chondrites, Murchison is petrologic type 2, which means that it experienced extensive alteration by water-rich fluids on its parent body before falling to Earth. CM chondrites, together with the CI group, are rich in carbon and are among the most chemically primitive meteorites. Like other CM chondrites, Murchison contains abundant CAIs. Over 15 amino acids, some of the basic components of life, have been identified in the meteorite by multiple studies. All the amino acids found in the Murchison meteorite have been synthesized in laboratory experiments by the action of electric discharge on a mixture of methane, nitrogen, and water with traces of ammonia.\n\nMurchison contains common amino acids such as glycine, alanine and glutamic acid as well as unusual ones like isovaline and pseudoleucine. A complex mixture of alkanes was isolated as well, similar to that found in the Miller–Urey experiment. Serine and threonine, usually considered to be earthly contaminants, were conspicuously absent in the samples. A specific family of amino acids called diamino acids was identified in the Murchison meteorite as well.\n\nThe initial report stated that the amino acids were racemic and therefore formed in an abiotic manner because amino acids of terrestrial proteins are all of the L-configuration. Later the amino acid alanine, which is also a protein amino acid, was found to have an excess of the L-configuration, which led several to suspect terrestrial contamination according to the argument that it would be \"unusual for an abiotic stereoselective decomposition or synthesis of amino acids to occur with protein amino acids but not with non-protein amino acids.\" In 1997, L-excesses were also found in a non-protein amino acid, isovaline, suggesting an extraterrestrial source for molecular asymmetry in the Solar System. At the same time, L-excesses of alanine were again found in Murchison but now with enrichment in the isotope N, however, the isotopic pairing was later contested on analytical grounds. The list of organic materials identified in the meteorite was extended to polyols by 2001.\n\nAlthough the meteorite contained a mixture of left-handed and right-handed amino acids, most amino acids used by living organisms are left-handed in chirality, and most sugars used are right-handed. A team of chemists in Sweden demonstrated in 2005 that this homochirality could have been triggered or catalyzed, by the action of a left-handed amino acid such as proline.\n\nSeveral lines of evidence indicate that the interior portions of well-preserved fragments from Murchison are pristine. A 2010 study using high resolution analytical tools including spectroscopy, identified 14,000 molecular compounds including 70 amino acids in a sample of the meteorite. The limited scope of the analysis by mass spectrometry provides for a potential 50,000 or more unique molecular compositions, with the team estimating the possibility of millions of distinct organic compounds in the meteorite.\n\nMeasured purine and pyrimidine compounds were found in the Murchison meteorite. Carbon isotope ratios for uracil and xanthine of δC = +44.5‰ and +37.7‰, respectively, indicate a non-terrestrial origin for these compounds. This specimen demonstrates that many organic compounds could have been delivered by early Solar System bodies and may have played a key role in life's origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21652", "title": "Natural language processing", "text": "Natural language processing\n\nNatural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of computer science, information engineering, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human (natural) languages, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data.\n\nChallenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition, natural language understanding, and natural language generation.\n\nThe history of natural language processing generally started in the 1950s, although work can be found from earlier periods.\nIn 1950, Alan Turing published an article titled \"Intelligence\" which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence.\n\nThe Georgetown experiment in 1954 involved fully automatic translation of more than sixty Russian sentences into English. The authors claimed that within three or five years, machine translation would be a solved problem. However, real progress was much slower, and after the ALPAC report in 1966, which found that ten-year-long research had failed to fulfill the expectations, funding for machine translation was dramatically reduced. Little further research in machine translation was conducted until the late 1980s, when the first statistical machine translation systems were developed.\n\nSome notably successful natural language processing systems developed in the 1960s were SHRDLU, a natural language system working in restricted \"blocks worlds\" with restricted vocabularies, and ELIZA, a simulation of a Rogerian psychotherapist, written by Joseph Weizenbaum between 1964 and 1966. Using almost no information about human thought or emotion, ELIZA sometimes provided a startlingly human-like interaction. When the \"patient\" exceeded the very small knowledge base, ELIZA might provide a generic response, for example, responding to \"My head hurts\" with \"Why do you say your head hurts?\".\n\nDuring the 1970s, many programmers began to write \"conceptual ontologies\", which structured real-world information into computer-understandable data. Examples are MARGIE (Schank, 1975), SAM (Cullingford, 1978), PAM (Wilensky, 1978), TaleSpin (Meehan, 1976), QUALM (Lehnert, 1977), Politics (Carbonell, 1979), and Plot Units (Lehnert 1981). During this time, many chatterbots were written including PARRY, Racter, and Jabberwacky.\n\nUp to the 1980s, most natural language processing systems were based on complex sets of hand-written rules. Starting in the late 1980s, however, there was a revolution in natural language processing with the introduction of machine learning algorithms for language processing. This was due to both the steady increase in computational power (see Moore's law) and the gradual lessening of the dominance of Chomskyan theories of linguistics (e.g. transformational grammar), whose theoretical underpinnings discouraged the sort of corpus linguistics that underlies the machine-learning approach to language processing. Some of the earliest-used machine learning algorithms, such as decision trees, produced systems of hard if-then rules similar to existing hand-written rules. However, part-of-speech tagging introduced the use of hidden Markov models to natural language processing, and increasingly, research has focused on statistical models, which make soft, probabilistic decisions based on attaching real-valued weights to the features making up the input data. The cache language models upon which many speech recognition systems now rely are examples of such statistical models. Such models are generally more robust when given unfamiliar input, especially input that contains errors (as is very common for real-world data), and produce more reliable results when integrated into a larger system comprising multiple subtasks.\n\nMany of the notable early successes occurred in the field of machine translation, due especially to work at IBM Research, where successively more complicated statistical models were developed. These systems were able to take advantage of existing multilingual textual corpora that had been produced by the Parliament of Canada and the European Union as a result of laws calling for the translation of all governmental proceedings into all official languages of the corresponding systems of government. However, most other systems depended on corpora specifically developed for the tasks implemented by these systems, which was (and often continues to be) a major limitation in the success of these systems. As a result, a great deal of research has gone into methods of more effectively learning from limited amounts of data.\n\nRecent research has increasingly focused on unsupervised and semi-supervised learning algorithms. Such algorithms are able to learn from data that has not been hand-annotated with the desired answers, or using a combination of annotated and non-annotated data. Generally, this task is much more difficult than supervised learning, and typically produces less accurate results for a given amount of input data. However, there is an enormous amount of non-annotated data available (including, among other things, the entire content of the World Wide Web), which can often make up for the inferior results if the algorithm used has a low enough time complexity to be practical.\n\nIn the 2010s, representation learning and deep neural network-style machine learning methods became widespread in natural language processing, due in part to a flurry of results showing that such techniques can achieve state-of-the-art results in many natural language tasks, for example in language modeling,\nparsing, and many others. Popular techniques include the use of word embeddings to capture semantic properties of words, and an increase in end-to-end learning of a higher-level task (e.g., question answering) instead of relying on a pipeline of separate intermediate tasks (e.g., part-of-speech tagging and dependency parsing). In some areas, this shift has entailed substantial changes in how NLP systems are designed, such that deep neural network-based approaches may be viewed as a new paradigm distinct from statistical natural language processing. For instance, the term \"neural machine translation\" (NMT) emphasizes the fact that deep learning-based approaches to machine translation directly learn sequence-to-sequence transformations, obviating the need for intermediate steps such as word alignment and language modeling that were used in statistical machine translation (SMT).\n\nIn the early days, many language-processing systems were designed by hand-coding a set of rules, e.g. by writing grammars or devising heuristic rules for stemming.\nHowever, this is rarely robust to natural language variation. \n\nSince the so-called \"statistical revolution\"\nin the late 1980s and mid 1990s, much natural language processing research has relied heavily on machine learning.\n\nThe machine-learning paradigm calls instead for using statistical inference to automatically learn such rules through the analysis of large \"corpora\" of typical real-world examples (a \"corpus\" (plural, \"corpora\") is a set of documents, possibly with human or computer annotations).\n\nMany different classes of machine-learning algorithms have been applied to natural-language-processing tasks. These algorithms take as input a large set of \"features\" that are generated from the input data. Some of the earliest-used algorithms, such as decision trees, produced systems of hard if-then rules similar to the systems of hand-written rules that were then common. Increasingly, however, research has focused on statistical models, which make soft, probabilistic decisions based on attaching real-valued weights to each input feature. Such models have the advantage that they can express the relative certainty of many different possible answers rather than only one, producing more reliable results when such a model is included as a component of a larger system.\n\nSystems based on machine-learning algorithms have many advantages over hand-produced rules:\n\nThe following is a list of some of the most commonly researched tasks in natural language processing. Note that some of these tasks have direct real-world applications, while others more commonly serve as subtasks that are used to aid in solving larger tasks.\n\nThough natural language processing tasks are closely intertwined, they are frequently subdivided into categories for convenience. A coarse division is given below.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30319163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30319163", "title": "Nemo A534", "text": "Nemo A534\n\nNemo A534 was a German Shepherd dog who served in the United States Air Force during the Vietnam War.\n\nTan Son Nhut Air Base, where Nemo was stationed, fell under attack by the Viet Cong in the early hours of December 4, 1966. Nemo would be released to attack Viet Cong later in the night, in the process losing one eye and suffering a gunshot wound to the nose. A bullet would enter under his right eye and exit through his mouth. Despite his severe injuries, Nemo would save the life of his handler, Airman Robert A. Throneburg, who had also been wounded. Crawling across Throneburg's body, Nemo guarded his handler against any who dared to come near until medical help could arrive.\n\nIn the silence of darkness, the Airman Robert Throneburg and Sentry Dog Nemo patrolled near a graveyard on Tan Son Nhut Airbase on the night of December 4, 1966. On security patrol, Nemo alerted Throneburg to a group of hidden VC.\"Watch him,\" said Airman Throneburg. The dog's muscles tensed for action.\"Get him!\" -- was the next command and Nemo lunged savagely forward, into the enemy's nest. Airman Throneburg followed close behind.\n\nIn the first moments of encounter, Airman Throneburg and Nemo killed two of the VC. But, before additional security police could reach them, Airman Throneburg was wounded in the left side shoulder and then spun by the first bullet wound and was wounded again in the back left shoulder. After being of Airman Throneburg, but indirectly prevented further destruction of life and property at Tan Son Nhut.\n\nAirman Robert Throneburg received two Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star Medal with the V for valour (BSV). Nemo was one of the first K-9 units retired and returned to the US.\n\nDue to his heroic actions, after receiving his injuries Nemo was returned to Lackland Air Force Base in the United States where he was given a permanent retirement kennel. He continued working as a recruiting dog and died in December 1972 at Lackland where his memorial kennels and stone stand today in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "395889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395889", "title": "Orphan drug", "text": "Orphan drug\n\nAn orphan drug is a pharmaceutical agent that has been developed specifically to treat a rare medical condition, the condition itself being referred to as an orphan disease.\n\nThe assignment of orphan status to a disease and to any drugs developed to treat it is a matter of public policy in many countries and has resulted in medical breakthroughs that may not have otherwise been achieved due to the economics of drug research and development.\n\nIn the US and the EU, it is easier to gain marketing approval for an orphan drug, and there may be other financial incentives, such as an extended period of exclusivity, a time during which that company is the only one allowed to market the orphan drug—all intended to encourage the development of those drugs which might otherwise lack a sufficient profit motive and market to attract companies' research budgets and personnel.\n\nAn orphan drug is a pharmaceutical agent which has been developed to treat a rare medical condition, the condition itself being referred to as a rare disease. A rare disease, also referred to as an \"orphan disease\", is any disease which affects a small percentage of the population. Most rare diseases are genetic, and thus are present throughout the person's entire life, even if symptoms do not immediately appear. Many rare diseases appear early in life, and about 30 percent of children with rare diseases will die before reaching their fifth birthday. No single cutoff number has been agreed upon for which a disease is considered rare. A disease may be considered rare in one part of the world, or in a particular group of people, but still be common in another. As many as one-in-ten Americans suffers from rare disease.\n\n, there were 281 marketed orphan drugs and more than 400 orphan designated drugs in clinical trials. More than 60% of orphan drugs were biologics. The US dominated the development of orphan drugs with more than 300 orphan drugs in clinical trial process, followed by Europe. Cancer treatment was the indication in more than 30% for orphan drug clinical trials.\n\nAccording to Thomson Reuters in their 2012 publication \"The Economic Power of Orphan Drugs,\" there has been increased investing in orphan drug research and development partly due to the U. S. Orphan Drug Act of 1983 (ODA) and similar acts in other regions of the world and also driven by \"high-profile philanthropic funding.\"\n\nPer the trade journal Drug Discovery Today between 2001 and 2011 was the \"most productive period in the history of orphan drug development, in terms of average annual orphan drug designations and orphan drug approvals.\" For the same decade the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of the orphan drugs was an \"impressive 25.8 percent, compared to only 20.1 percent for a matched control group of non-orphan drugs.\" \nBy 2012, the market for orphan drugs was worth USD$637 million compared to the USD$638 million matched control group of non-orphan drugs.\n\nBy 2012,\n\nAccording to a 2014 report, the orphan drug market has become increasingly lucrative for a number of reasons: The cost of clinical trials for orphan drugs is substantially lower than for other diseases —trial sizes are naturally much smaller than for more common diseases with larger numbers of patients. Small clinical trials and little competition place orphan agents at an advantage in regulatory review.\n\nTax incentives reduce the cost of development. On average the cost per patient for orphan drugs is \"six times that of non-orphan drugs, a clear indication of their pricing power\". The cost of per-person outlays are huge and are expected to increase with wider use of public subsidies.\n\nThe 2014 Orphan Drug report stated that the percentage of orphan drug sales as part of all prescription drug sales had been increasing at rapid rate. By 2020 the total was predicted to be $176 billion. Although orphan disease populations are the smallest, the cost of per-patient outlays have been the largest. There pressure on pharmaceuticals which \"represent the biggest budgetary drain\" has been predicted to increase particularly as more people with rare diseases will be eligible for subsidies —in the United States for example through the Affordable Care Act.\n\nOrphan drugs generally follow the same regulatory development path as any other pharmaceutical product, in which testing focuses on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, dosing, stability, safety and efficacy. However, some statistical burdens are lessened to maintain development momentum. For example, orphan drug regulations generally acknowledge the fact that it may not be possible to test 1,000 patients in a phase III clinical trial, as fewer than that number may be afflicted with the disease in question.\n\nSince the market for any drug with such a limited application scope would, by definition, be small and thus largely unprofitable for pharmaceutical companies, some governments have chosen to intervene to motivate a manufacturer to develop an orphan drug.\n\nThe intervention by government on behalf of orphan drug development can take a variety of forms:\n\nA 2015 study of \"34 key Canadian stakeholders including drug regulators, funders, scientists, policy experts, pharmaceutical industry representatives, and patient advocates\" investigated contributing factors to the growing interest of the pharmaceutical industry in \"niche markets\" such as orphan drugs.\n\nThe Orphan Drug Act (ODA) of January 1983, passed in the United States, with lobbying from the National Organization for Rare Disorders and many other organizations, is meant to encourage pharmaceutical companies to develop drugs for diseases that have a small market. Under the ODA drugs, vaccines, and diagnostic agents would qualify for orphan status if they were intended to treat a disease affecting less than 200,000 American citizens. Under the ODA orphan drug sponsors qualify for seven-year FDA-administered market Orphan Drug Exclusivity (ODE), \"tax credits of up to 50% of R&D costs, R&D grants, waived FDA fees, protocol assistance and may get clinical trial tax incentives.\n\nOrphan drug designation means that the sponsor qualifies for certain benefits but it does not mean the drug is safe and effective and legal to manufacture and market in the United States.\n\nIn 2002, the Rare Diseases Act was signed into law. It amended the Public Health Service Act to establish the Office of Rare Diseases. It also increased funding for the development of treatments for people with rare diseases.\n\nIn 2000, the European Union (EU) has enacted similar legislation, Regulation(EC) No 141/2000, which refers to drugs developed to treat rare diseases to as \"orphan medicinal products\". The EU's definition of an orphan condition is broader than that of the USA, in that it also covers some tropical diseases that are primarily found in developing nations. Orphan drug status granted by the European Commission gives marketing exclusivity in the EU for 10 years after approval. The EU's legislation is administered by the Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products of the European Medicines Agency (EMA).\n\nIn late 2007 the FDA and EMA agreed to use a common application process for both agencies to make it easier for manufacturers to apply for orphan drug status but, while continuing two separate approval processes.\n\nLegislation has been implemented by Japan, Singapore, and Australia that offers subsidies and other incentives to encourage the development of drugs that treat orphan diseases.\n\nUnder the ODA and EU legislation, many orphan drugs have been developed, including drugs to treat glioma, multiple myeloma, cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria, snake venom poisoning, and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.\n\nThe Pharmaceitical Executive opines, that the \"ODA is nearly universally acknowledged to be a success\".\nBefore the United States Congress enacted the ODA in 1983, only 38 drugs were approved in the USA specifically to treat orphan diseases. \nIn the USA, from January 1983 to June 2004, the Office of Orphan Products Development 249 orphan drugs received marketing authorization and granted 1,129 different orphan drug designations, compared to fewer than ten such products in the decade prior to 1983. \nFrom 1983 until May 2010, the FDA approved 353 orphan drugs and granted orphan designations to 2,116 compounds. \nAs of 2010, 200 of the roughly 7,000 officially designated orphan diseases have become treatable.\n\nCritics have questioned whether orphan drug legislation was the real cause of this increase, claiming that many of the new drugs were for disorders which were already being researched anyway, and would have had drugs developed regardless of the legislation, and whether the ODA has truly stimulated the production of non-profitable drugs; the act also has been criticised for allowing some pharmaceutical companies to make a large profit of drugs which have a small market but sell for a high price.\n\nWhile the European Medicines Agency grants orphan drugs market access to all member states, in practice, they only reach the market when a member state decides that its national health system will reimburse for the drug. For example, in 2008, 44 orphan drugs reached the market in the Netherlands, 35 in Belgium, and 28 in Sweden, while in 2007, 35 such drugs reached the market in France and 23 in Italy.\n\nThough not technically an orphan disease, the research and development into the treatment for AIDS has been heavily linked to the Orphan Drug Act. In the beginning of the AIDS epidemic the lack of treatment for the disease was often accredited to a believed lack of commercial base for a medication linked to HIV infection. This encouraged the FDA to use the Orphan Drug Act to help bolster research in this field, and by 1995 13 of the 19 drugs approved by the FDA to treat AIDS had received orphan drug designation, with 10 receiving marketing rights. These are in addition to the 70 designated orphan drugs designed to treat other HIV related illnesses.\n\nIn the 1980s, people with cystic fibrosis rarely lived beyond their early teens. Drugs like Pulmozyme and tobramycin, both developed with aid from the ODA, revolutionized treatment for cystic fibrosis patients by significantly improving their quality of life and extending their life expectancies. Now, cystic fibrosis patients often survive into their thirties and some into their fifties.\n\nThe 1985 Nobel Prize for medicine went to two researchers for their work related to familial hypercholesterolemia, which causes large and rapid increases in cholesterol levels. Their research led to the development of statin drugs which are now commonly used to treat high cholesterol.\n\nPenicillamine was developed to treat Wilson's disease, a rare hereditary disease that can lead to a fatal accumulation of copper in the body. This drug was later found to be effective in treating arthritis. Bis-choline tetrathiomolybdate is currently under investigation as a therapy against Wilson's disease.\n\nThe Center for Orphan Drug Research at the University of Minnesota College of Pharmacy helps small companies with insufficient in-house expertise and resources in drug synthesis, formulation, pharmacometrics, and bio-analysis.\nThe Keck Graduate Institute Center for Rare Disease Therapies (CRDT) in Claremont, California, supports projects to revive potential orphan drugs whose development has stalled by identifying barriers to commercialization, such as problems with formulation and bio-processing.\n\nNumerous advocacy groups such as the National Organization for Rare Disorders, Global Genes Project, Children's Rare Disease Network, Abetalipoproteinemia Collaboration Foundation, Zellweger Baby Support Network, and the Friedreich's Ataxia Research Alliance have been founded in order to advocate on behalf of patients suffering from rare diseases with a particular emphasis on diseases that afflict children.\n\nAccording to a 2015 report published by EvaluatePharma, the economics of orphan drugs mirrors the economics of the pharmaceutical market as a whole but has a few very large differences. The market for orphan drugs is by definition very small, but while the customer base is drastically smaller the cost of research and development is very much the same as for non orphan drugs. This, the producers have claimed, causes them to charge extremely high amounts for treatment sometimes as high as $700,000 a year, as in the case of Spinraza (Biogen), FDA approved in December 2016 for spinal muscular atrophy, placing a large amount of stress on insurance companies and patients. An analysis of 12 orphan drugs that were approved in the US between 1990 and 2000 estimated a price reduction of on average 50% upon loss of marketing exclusivity, with a range of price reductions from 14% to 95%.\n\nGovernments have implemented steps to reduce high research and development cost with subsidies and other forms of financial assistance. The largest assistance are tax breaks which can be as high as 50% of research and development costs. Orphan drug manufacturers are also able to take advantage of the small customer base to cut cost on clinical trials due to the small number of cases to have smaller trials which reduces cost. These smaller clinical trials also allow orphan drugs to move to market faster as the average time to receive FDA approval for an orphan drug is 10 months compared to 13 months for non-orphan drugs. This is especially true in the market for cancer drugs, as a 2011 study found that between 2004 and 2010 orphan drug trials were more likely to be smaller and less randomized than their non-orphan counterparts, but still had a higher FDA approval rate, with 15 orphan cancer drugs being approved, while only 12 non-orphan drugs were approved. This allows manufactures to get cost to the point that it is economically feasible to produce these treatments. The subsidies can total up to 30 million dollars per fiscal year in the United States alone .\n\nBy 2015, industry analysts and academic researchers agreed, that the sky-high price of orphan drugs, such as eculizumab, was not related to research, development and manufacturing costs. Their price is arbitrary and they have become more profitable than traditional medicines.\n\nBy 2007 the use of economic evaluation methods regarding public-funding of orphan drugs, using estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness, for example, became more established internationally. The QALY has often been used in cost-utility analysis to calculate the ratio of cost to QALYs saved for a particular health care intervention. By 2008 the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in England and Wales, for example, operated with a threshold range of £20,000–£30,000 per Quality-adjusted life year (QALY). By 2005 doubts were raised about the use of economic evaluations in orphan drugs. By 2008 most of the orphan drugs appraised had cost-effectiveness thresholds \"well in excess of the ‘accepted’ level and would not be reimbursed according to conventional criteria.\" As early as 2005 McCabe et al argued that rarity should not have a premium and orphan drugs should be treated like other pharmaceuticals in general. Drummond et al argued that the social value of health technologies should also be included in the assessment along than the estimation of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.\n\nThe very large incentives given to pharmaceutical companies to produce orphan drugs have led to the impression that the financial support afforded to make these drugs possible is akin to abuse. Because drugs can be used to treat multiple conditions, companies can take drugs that were filed with their government agency as orphan drugs to receive financial assistance, and then market it to a wide population to increase their profit margin. For example AstraZeneca's cholesterol drug Crestor was filed as a treatment for the rare disease pediatric familial hypercholesterolemia. After the drug was approved for orphan drug designation, and AstraZeneca had received tax breaks and other advantages, AstraZeneca later applied and received FDA approval for the drug to be used to treat cholesterol in all diabetics.\n\nBy 2008 if an orphan drug cost more than £30,000 the NICE required other arguments for funding.\n\nIn 2015, NICE held consultations with \"patient groups, the Department of Health, companies, learned societies, charities and researchers\" regarding the appraisal of medicines and other technologies. There was a call for more research into new processes including the \n\n\n"}
{"id": "673769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673769", "title": "Pet Rock", "text": "Pet Rock\n\nPet Rock is a collectible conceived in 1975 by advertising executive Gary Dahl. Pet Rocks are smooth stones from Mexico's Rosarito Beach. They were marketed like live pets, in custom cardboard boxes, complete with straw and breathing holes. The fad lasted about six months, ending after a short increase in sales during the Christmas season of December 1975. Although by February 1976 they were discounted due to lower sales, Dahl sold 1.5 million Pet Rocks for $4 each, and became a millionaire.\n\nWith his money, Dahl opened a bar named \"Carry Nations\" in downtown Los Gatos, California, a reference to Carrie Nation. Dahl continued to work in advertising; however, he avoided interviews for years, because \"a bunch of wackos\" harassed him with lawsuits and threats. Dahl said in 1988: \"Sometimes I look back and wonder if my life wouldn't have been simpler if I hadn't done it.\"\n\nIn April 1975, in a bar in Bonny Doon, Gary Dahl listened to his friends complain about their pets; this gave him the idea for the perfect \"pet\": a rock. A rock would not need to be fed, walked, bathed, or groomed, and it would not die, become sick, or be disobedient. Dahl said that they were to be the perfect pets and joked about it with his friends.\nHe took his idea seriously, however, and drafted an \"instruction manual\" for a pet rock. The manual was full of puns and gags that referred to the rock as an actual pet.\n\nDahl's biggest expense was the die-cutting and manufacture of the boxes. The rocks only cost a penny each, and the straw was nearly free. For the initial run of booklets, Dahl had a printing job for a client, and \"tacked\" the pet rock booklet onto the main job. This resulted in a batch requiring only a cut and trim, at almost no cost except for some labor.\n\nA 32-page official training manual titled \"The Care and Training of Your Pet Rock\" was included, with instructions on how to properly raise and care for one's new Pet Rock (notably lacking instructions for feeding, bathing, and so on). The instruction manual was the real product, full of gags, puns and jokes, and contained several commands that could be taught to the new pet. While \"sit\" and \"stay\" were effortless to accomplish, \"roll over\" usually required a little extra help from the trainer. \"Come,\" \"stand\" and \"shake hands\" were found to be near-impossible to teach; however, \"attack\" was fairly simple (also with some additional help from the owner's force).\n\nThe Pet Rock became available again on September 3, 2012. Rosebud Entertainment currently holds the United States trademark rights to the Pet Rock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41145205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41145205", "title": "Propagation of grapevines", "text": "Propagation of grapevines\n\nThe propagation of grapevines is an important consideration in commercial viticulture and winemaking. Grapevines, most of which belong to the \"Vitis vinifera\" family, produce one crop of fruit each growing season with a limited life span for individual vines. While some centenarian old vine examples of grape varieties exist, most grapevines are between the ages of 10 and 30 years. As vineyard owners seek to replant their vines, a number of techniques are available which may include planting a new cutting that has been selected by either clonal or mass (massal) selection. Vines can also be propagated by grafting a new plant vine upon existing rootstock or by layering one of the canes of an existing vine into the ground next to the vine and severing the connection when the new vine develops its own root system.\n\nIn commercial viticulture, grapevines are rarely propagated from seedlings as each seed contains unique genetic information from its two parent varieties (the flowering parent and the parent that provided the pollen that fertilized the flower) and would, theoretically, be a different variety than either parent. This would be true even if two hermaphroditic vine varieties, such as Chardonnay, cross pollinated each other. While the grape clusters that would arise from the pollination would be considered Chardonnay any vines that sprang from one of the seeds of the grape berries would be considered a distinct variety other than Chardonnay. It is for this reason that grapevines are usually propagated from cuttings while grape breeders will utilize seedlings to come up with new grape varieties including crossings that include parents of two varieties within the same species (such as Cabernet Sauvignon which is a crossing of the \"Vitis vinifera\" varieties Cabernet Franc and Sauvignon blanc) or hybrid grape varieties which include parents from two different \"Vitis\" species such as the Armagnac grape Baco blanc, which was propagated from the \"vinifera\" grape Folle blanche and the \"Vitis labrusca\" variety Noah.\n\nIn viticulture, a clone is single vine that has been selected from a \"mother vine\" to which it is identically similar. This clone may have been selected deliberately from a grapevine that has demonstrated desirable traits (good yields, grape disease resistance, small berry size, etc.) and propagated as cuttings from that mother vine. Varieties such as Sangiovese and Pinot noir are well known to have a variety of clones. While there may be slight mutations to differentiate the various clones, all clones are considered genetically part of the same variety (i.e. Sangiovese or Pinot noir).\n\nA color mutation is a grape variety that while genetically similar to the original variety is considered unique enough to merit being considered its own variety. Both Pinot gris and Pinot blanc are color mutations of Pinot noir.\n\nA crossing is a new grape variety that was created by the cross pollination of two different varieties of the same species. Syrah is a crossing of two French \"Vitis vinifera\" species, Dureza from the Ardèche and Mondeuse blanche from Savoie. Theoretically, every seedling (also known as a Selfling), even if its pollinated by a member of the same grape variety (i.e. such as two Merlot vines), is a crossing as any vine that results from the seed being planted will be a different grape variety distinct from either parent.\n\nA hybrid is a new grape variety that was produced from a cross pollination of two different grape species. In the early history of American winemaking, grape growers would cross the European \"Vitis vinifera\" vines with American vine varieties such as \"Vitis labrusca\" to create French-American hybrids that were more resistant to American grape diseases such as downy and powdery mildew as well as phylloxera. When the phylloxera epidemic of the mid to late 19th century hit Europe, some growers in European wine regions experimented with using hybrids until a solution involving grafting American rootstocks to \"vinifera\" varieties was found. Eventually, the use of hybrids in wine production declined with their use formally outlawed by European wine laws in the 1950s.\n\nAs commercial winemakers usually want to work with a desired grape variety that dependably produces a particular crop, most grapevines are propagated by clonal or massal selection of plant material. This can be accomplished in one of three ways.\n\n\nEach cutting, taken from a mother vine, is a clone of that vine. The way that a vine grower selects these cuttings can be described as either clonal or massal selection. In clonal selection, an ideal plant within a vineyard or nursery that has exhibited the most desirable traits is selected with all cuttings taken from that single plant. In massal (or \"mass\") selection, cuttings are taken from several vines of the same variety that have collectively demonstrated desirable traits.\nHistorically, massal selection was the primary means of vineyard propagation, particularly in traditional vineyards where vines are only sporadically replaced, often by layering a cane from a neighboring vine. In the 1950s, the isolation and identification of desirable clones in nurseries and breeding stations lead to an increase in clonal selection with new vineyard plantings seeking out clones from well established vineyards and wine region. This trend towards clonal selection has seen some criticism from wine writers and viticulturalists who complain about \"mono-clonal\" viticulture that has the risk of producing wines that are overly similar and dull.\n\nOther criticisms of clonal selection involve the increased risk in vineyards lacking genetic diversity among its vines as well as the changing priorities in wine production. While many clones in the mid to late 20th century were isolated, some of the desirable traits exhibited by those clones (such as early ripening or high yield potential) may no longer be as desirable today where other traits (such as low yields and drought resistance) may be more prized.\n"}
{"id": "4722265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4722265", "title": "Raising of Lazarus", "text": "Raising of Lazarus\n\nThe raising of Lazarus or the resurrection of Lazarus is a miracle of Jesus recounted only in the Gospel of John (John 11:1–44) in which Jesus brings Lazarus of Bethany back to life four days after his burial. In John, this is the last of the miracles that Jesus performs before the Passion and his own resurrection.\n\nLazarus is the brother of Martha and Mary. The family lives in the village of Bethany, about two miles east of Jerusalem on the south-eastern slope of the Mount of Olives.\n\nAccording to John 11:1-44, Jesus receives a message that Lazarus is ill, and his two sisters are seeking his help. Jesus tells his followers: \"This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God's glory so that God's Son may be glorified through it.\"\n\nJesus then delays his departure and leaves after two days. The disciples are afraid of returning to Judea, but Jesus says: \"Our friend Lazarus is asleep, but I am going to awaken him.\" when the apostles misunderstand, he clarifies, \"Lazarus is dead, and for your sake I am glad I was not there, so that you may believe.\"\n\nWhen they arrive in Bethany, Lazarus has been dead and buried for four days. Before they enter the town, Martha, Lazarus' sister, comes to meet Jesus and tells him: \"if you had been here, my brother would not have died\". Jesus assures Martha that her brother will rise again and states: \"I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies; and whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?\"\n\nMartha's affirmation that she does truly believe and states, \"Yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Messiah, the Son of God, who is to come into the world\", is only the second time (after Nathanael) that someone declares Jesus as Son of God and the first time someone equates him as 'Messiah' and 'Son of God' together. The only other time this happens in the entire gospel is in the explanation the author of the Gospel gives for writing his Gospel at the very end. \nUpon entering the village, Jesus is met by Mary and the people who have come to console her. Upon seeing their grief and weeping, Jesus is deeply moved. Then, after asking where he was buried, the shortest verse in the four Gospels, and the entire Bible is found - \"Jesus wept\". After that, Jesus asks for the stone of the grave to be removed, but Martha interjects that there will be a smell. To which Jesus responds, \"Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God?\"\n\nSo they take the stone away. Then Jesus looks up and says: \"Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this for the benefit of the people standing here, that they may believe that you sent me.\"\n\nWhen he has said this, Jesus calls in a loud voice, \"Lazarus, come forth!\" The dead man comes out, his hands and feet wrapped with strips of linen, and a cloth around his face. Jesus says to them, \"Take off the grave clothes and let him go.\"\n\nLazarus is mentioned again in the Gospel of John chapter 12. Six days before the Passover on which Jesus is crucified, Jesus returns to Bethany and Lazarus attends a supper that Martha, his sister, serves. Jesus and Lazarus together attract the attention of many Jews and the narrator states that the chief priests consider having Lazarus put to death because so many people have come to believe in Jesus on account of his raising Lazarus.\n\nThe miracle of the raising of Lazarus is the climax of John's \"signs\". It explains the crowds seeking Jesus on Palm Sunday, and leads directly to the decision of Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin to plan to kill Jesus. Theologians Moloney and Harrington view the raising of Lazarus as a \"pivotal miracle\" which starts the chain of events that leads to the Crucifixion of Jesus. They consider it as a \"resurrection that will lead to death\", in that the raising of Lazarus will lead to the death of Jesus, the Son of God, in Jerusalem which will reveal the Glory of God. Calvin notes that \"not only did Christ give a remarkable proof of his Divine power in raising Lazarus, but he likewise placed before our eyes a lively image of our future resurrection.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "313649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313649", "title": "Richard Holbrooke", "text": "Richard Holbrooke\n\nRichard Charles Albert Holbrooke (April 24, 1941 – December 13, 2010) was an American diplomat, magazine editor, author, professor, Peace Corps official, and investment banker.\n\nHe was the only person to have held the position of Assistant Secretary of State for two different regions of the world (Asia from 1977 to 1981 and Europe from 1994 to 1996).\n\nFrom 1993 to 1994, he was U.S. Ambassador to Germany. Long well known in diplomatic and journalistic circles, Holbrooke achieved great public prominence when he, together with former Swedish prime minister Carl Bildt, brokered a peace agreement among the warring factions in Bosnia that led to the signing of the Dayton Peace Accords, in 1995. Holbrooke was a leading contender to succeed the retiring Warren Christopher as Secretary of State but was passed over in 1996 as President Bill Clinton chose Madeleine Albright instead. From 1999 to 2001, Holbrooke served as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations.\n\nHe was an adviser to the Presidential campaign of Senator John Kerry in 2004. Holbrooke then joined the Presidential campaign of Senator Hillary Clinton and became a top foreign policy adviser. Holbrooke was considered a likely candidate for Secretary of State had Kerry or Hillary Clinton been elected President. In January 2009, Holbrooke was appointed as a special adviser on Pakistan and Afghanistan, working under President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. He served until he died from complications of an aortic dissection on December 13, 2010.\n\nHolbrooke's unfulfilled ambition was to become Secretary of State; he, along with George Kennan and Chip Bohlen, were considered among the most influential U.S. diplomats who never achieved cabinet rank. Several considered Holbrooke's role in the Dayton Accords to merit the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nHolbrooke was born on April 24, 1941, in New York City, to Dan Holbrooke, a doctor, and Trudi Kearl (née Moos), a potter; brother, Andrew, survives him. Holbrooke's mother, whose Jewish family fled Hamburg in 1933 for Buenos Aires before coming to New York, took him to Quaker meetings on Sundays. She stated: \"I was an atheist, his father was an atheist... We never thought of giving Richard a Jewish upbringing. The Quaker meetings seemed interesting.\"\n\nHolbrooke's father, who died of cancer when Richard was 15 years old, was born of Polish Jewish parents in Warsaw and took the name Holbrooke after migrating to the United States in 1939. The original family name was Goldbrajch.\n\nAfter Scarsdale High School, Holbrooke earned a Bachelor of Arts from Brown University in 1962, attending on a full-tuition scholarship. He was later a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, leaving in 1970.\n\nIn 1962, Holbrooke graduated from Brown University, where he was inspired by President John F. Kennedy's call to service to enter government work. A few weeks after college graduation, Holbrooke entered the Foreign Service. A year later, after Vietnamese language training, he began six years of service in and on Vietnam. He served first in the Mekong Delta, as a civilian representative for the Agency for International Development working on the rural Pacification Program. This involved supporting the South Vietnam government with economic development and enacting local political reforms. Holbrooke then moved to the US Embassy, Saigon where he became a staff assistant to Ambassadors Maxwell Taylor and Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. During this time, he served with many other young diplomats who would play a major role in American foreign policy in the decades ahead, including John Negroponte, Anthony Lake, Frank G. Wisner, Les Aspin and Peter Tarnoff. As the Vietnam War escalated, President Lyndon Johnson formed a team of Vietnam experts to work in the White House under the former head of the Phoenix Program, R.W. Komer, in an operation that was separate from the National Security Council. As a rising young diplomat with significant experience in the country, Holbrooke was asked to join the group when he was only twenty-four years old.\n\nFollowing his time in the White House, Holbrooke served as a special assistant to Under Secretaries of State (then the number-two position in the State Department) Nicholas Katzenbach and Elliot Richardson. In 1968, Holbrooke was asked to be part of the American delegation to the 1968 Paris peace talks, which was led by former New York Governor Averell Harriman and Deputy Secretary of Defense Cyrus Vance. He also drafted a volume of the now famous Pentagon Papers, a top-secret report on the government's decision-making in Vietnam. Following these assignments, Holbrooke spent a year as a mid-career fellow at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University.\n\nIn 1970, at his own request, Holbrooke was assigned to be the Peace Corps Director in Morocco. After two years, he left the Foreign Service to become the Managing Editor of the magazine \"Foreign Policy\" from 1972–1976. At the same time (1974–75), he was a consultant to the President's Commission on the Organization of the Government for the Conduct of Foreign Policy and was a contributing editor to \"Newsweek International\".\n\nIn the summer of 1976, Holbrooke left \"Foreign Policy\" to serve as campaign coordinator for national security affairs to Governor Jimmy Carter (D-GA) in his bid for the White House. During the campaign, Holbrooke helped Carter prepare for his foreign policy debates with President Gerald Ford. After Carter's victory, Holbrooke followed in the footsteps of such diplomatic mentors as Philip Habib, Dean Rusk and Averell Harriman and, on March 31, 1977, became Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, making him the youngest person ever to hold that position, a post he held until 1981. While at State, he was a top adviser to Secretary of State Cyrus Vance. During his service, he oversaw a warming with Cold War adversaries in the region, culminating in the normalization of relations with China in December 1978. He was also deeply involved in bringing hundreds of thousands of Indochinese refugees to the United States, thus beginning a lifelong involvement with the refugee issue.\n\nIn August 1977, then Assistant Secretary of State, Holbrooke traveled to Indonesia to meet with President Suharto in the midst of Indonesia's occupation of East Timor, in which over 100,000 East Timorese were ultimately killed or starved to death. According to Brad Simpson, director of the Indonesia and East Timor Documentation Project at the National Security Archives, Holbrooke had visited officially to press for human rights reform but, after meeting Suharto, had instead praised him for Indonesia's human rights improvements, for the steps that Indonesia had taken to open East Timor to the West, and for allowing a delegation of congressmen to enter the territory under strict military guard, where they were greeted by staged celebrations welcoming the Indonesian armed forces.\n\nIn January 1981, Holbrooke left government and became both senior advisor to Lehman Brothers and vice president of Public Strategies, a consulting firm he formed with James A. Johnson, a former top aide to Walter Mondale. From 1985 until 1993, Holbrooke served as managing director of Lehman Brothers. During this time, he co-authored \"Counsel to the President\", \"The New York Times\" best-selling memoirs of legendary Democratic wise man and Defense Secretary Clark Clifford, published in 1991. He was a top policy adviser to then-Senator Al Gore (D-TN) during his 1988 campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. And four years later he advised Bill Clinton, in his quest for the White House.\n\nHolbrooke also remained deeply engaged in prominent foreign policy issues. He visited Bosnia twice in 1992 as a private citizen and a member of the board of Refugees International, witnessing firsthand the damage and devastating human costs of the conflict. This experience committed Holbrooke to pursuing a more aggressive policy in Balkans and, in a memo to his colleagues, he urged that \"Bosnia will be the key test of American policy in Europe. We must therefore succeed in whatever we attempt.\"\n\nIn 1993, after Bill Clinton became President, Holbrooke was initially slated to be Ambassador to Japan due to his depth of knowledge and long experience in Asian affairs. However, this appointment eventually went to former Vice President Walter Mondale, and Holbrooke unexpectedly was appointed Ambassador to Germany. In 1992, Holbrooke was also a member of the Carnegie Commission on America and a Changing World and Chairman and principal author of the bipartisan Commission on Government and Renewal, sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation and the Peterson Institute. He was Chairman and principal author of the \"Memo to the President-Elect: Harnessing Process to Purpose,\" a blue-ribbon Commission report sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Institute for International Economics.\n\nHolbrooke served in Germany during a dramatic moment: only a few years after German reunification, he helped shape U.S. relations with a new Germany. A highlight of his tenure was President Bill Clinton's visit to Berlin in July 1994, when thousands of Germans crammed the streets to welcome the American leader. While in Germany, Holbrooke also was a key figure in shaping the U.S. policy to promote NATO enlargement, as well as its approach to the war in Bosnia.\n\nIn 1994, while serving as U.S. Ambassador to Germany, he conceived the idea of a cultural exchange center between the people of Berlin and Americans. With Richard von Weizsäcker, former President of Germany, and Henry A. Kissinger as co-Chairman, this institution—The American Academy in Berlin—was announced on September 9, 1994, the day after the U.S. Army Berlin Brigade left Berlin. The American Academy in Berlin opened three years later in a villa on the Wannsee once owned by the German-Jewish banker Hans Arnhold. It is now one of the most important links between Germany and the United States. Its Fellows have included writers (including Pulitzer Prize winning authors Arthur Miller and Jeffrey Eugenides), economists, government officials, and public policy experts such as Dennis Ross and former U.S. Ambassador to The People's Republic of China, J. Stapleton Roy. In 2008, The American Academy in Berlin awarded its annual Henry A. Kissinger Award for Transatlantic Relations to George H. W. Bush. In 2007, the Award's first recipient was former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt.\n\nIn 1994, Holbrooke returned to Washington to become the assistant secretary for European and Canadian Affairs, a position he held until 1996, when he resigned for personal reasons (he had recently married the author Kati Marton and wished to return to New York). While assistant secretary, Holbrooke led the effort to implement the policy to enlarge NATO and had the distinction of leading the negotiation team charged with resolving the Balkans crisis. In Paris in December 1995, he was the chief architect of the Dayton Peace Accords which ended a three-and-a-half-year-long war in Bosnia. In 1996, he was awarded the Manfred Wörner Medal, awarded by the German Ministry of Defense for public figures who have rendered \"special meritorious service to peace and freedom in Europe.\"\n\nUpon leaving the State Department, Holbrooke was asked by President Clinton to become, as a private citizen, a special envoy to the Balkans given his distinguished service in the region. Holbrooke left his post as assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian affairs and joined Credit Suisse First Boston, eventually taking the position of Vice Chairman. In 1997, Holbrooke became a special envoy to Cyprus and the Balkans on a pro-bono basis as a private citizen. During 1998 and 1999, in his capacity as special presidential envoy, Holbrooke worked to end the conflict between the armed forces of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA), who were fighting for an independent Kosovo in the Kosovo War. Holbrooke returned to Bosnia two years later to the city of Sarajevo. In March 1999 he traveled to Belgrade to deliver the ultimatum to Yugoslav president Slobodan Milošević before the NATO attack began. Holbrooke wrote numerous articles about his experiences in the Balkans, and in 1998, published the widely acclaimed book, \"To End a War\", a memoir of his time as the chief negotiator of the Dayton Peace Accords, ending the Bosnian civil war. \"The New York Times\" ranked the book as one of the eleven best books of the year in 1998.\n\nAccording to Radovan Karadžić and Muhamed Sacirbey, ex-Bosnian Foreign Minister, Holbrooke signed an agreement with Karadžić that if the latter withdrew from politics he would not be sent to the Hague tribunal. Holbrooke denied these terms, saying Karadžić's statement was \"a flat-out lie.\"\n\nIn August 1999, Holbrooke was sworn-in as the 22nd U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, replacing Bill Richardson. During his tenure, Holbrooke was known for innovation and for achieving diplomatic breakthroughs that settled a series of longstanding tensions in the United States' relationship with the UN. His highest-profile accomplishment was negotiating a historic deal between the United States and the UN's then 188-Member States to settle the bulk of arrears owed by the United States to the United Nations. The deal, achieved with the agreement of the UN's entire membership in late December 2000, lowered the rate of UN dues paid by the United States to the UN, fulfilling the terms of a U.S. law championed by Senators Jesse Helms (R-NC) and Joseph Biden (D-DE). In return for the reduction, the United States paid the UN over $900 million in back dues. Holbrooke secured a reduction in U.S. dues to the UN despite a booming American economy by enfolding the U.S. position within a broad push to update the UN's long-outdated financial system. As negotiations reached a critical phase in the fall of 2000, Holbrooke bridged a gap between what the United States was legally permitted to pay and the amounts the rest of the UN membership were willing to shoulder by securing an unprecedented contribution by billionaire Ted Turner, founder of the UN Foundation. Holbrooke and his team received a standing ovation in the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee when the terms of the deal were presented.\n\nHolbrooke's other achievements as UN Ambassador included getting the United Nations Security Council to debate and pass a resolution on HIV/AIDS, the first time that body had treated public health as a matter of global security. In January 2000, Holbrooke used the United States' presidency of the UN Security Council to spotlight a series of crises in Africa, holding six consecutive UN debates that brought together leaders from the region and the across the globe, including former South African President Nelson Mandela and then U.S. Vice President Al Gore, to catalyze more effective UN interventions in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Angola, and elsewhere. Holbrooke decried a \"double standard\" whereby African conflicts received insufficient global attention. In 2000, Holbrooke led a UN Security Council delegation in a series of diplomatic negotiations throughout Africa, including to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Rwanda, and Uganda. Holbrooke also secured membership for Israel in the UN's Western European and Others regional group, ending Israel's historic exclusion from regional group deliberations and allowing it to, for the first time, stand for election to leadership positions in UN sub-bodies. During the final weeks of his term, Holbrooke secured consultative status at the United Nations for Hadassah, the Jewish women's service organization, overcoming strenuous objections from certain Arab delegations.\n\nIn January 2000, when the United States was in the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council, Ambassador Holbrooke held an unprecedented meeting of the Security Council to discuss AIDS in Africa. No Security Council session in the history of the UN had ever been devoted to a health issue prior to this historic meeting. Vice President Al Gore presided over the Security Council and declared that AIDS was a security threat to all nations.\n\nUpon leaving the UN a year later, Holbrooke took over a nearly moribund NGO that was intended to mobilize businesses and corporations in the fight against AIDS. At the time, it had 17 members. Over the next six years, Holbrooke turned this organization—originally called the Global Business Council on HIV/AIDS—into a worldwide organization with over 225 members. It expanded to include malaria and tuberculosis, becoming the \"Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria\" in 2006. In 2011, the organization became GBCHealth and expanded its mandate to include an array of health issues. GBCHealth is the official focal point for mobilizing the business community in support of The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and has grown into an important part of the ongoing war against these three diseases.\n\nHolbrooke was Clinton's lead foreign policy advisor in her campaign for president and was believed to be her preferred choice for Secretary of State. When Obama defeated Clinton and selected her as Secretary of State, Holbrooke was her preferred option for Deputy Secretary of State, but was vetoed by Obama.\n\nIn January 2009, Holbrooke was appointed by President Obama as special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. In that position, he helped kill an initiative to \"back the creation of a new UN special envoy empowered to pursue peace talks with the Taliban.\" He also asserted that:\n\none of the most cost-effective steps Washington could take would be to boost the agriculture sector of Afghanistan, which in years past had been a productive and profitable source of exports. Replicate the past success, he said, and Afghans would have money and jobs—and that, in turn, would create stability in the country. He called for 'a complete rethink' of the drug problem in Afghanistan, suggesting that draconian eradication programs were bound to fail.\n\nHowever, according to David Corn, \"Holbrooke's skill set did not lead to much accomplishment in Afghanistan. He never worked out a productive relationship with Afghan President Hamid Karzai … He butted heads with other administration officials and was dismissed by European colleagues. He brokered no breakthroughs.\"\n\nHolbrooke was the vice chairman of Perseus LLC, a leading private equity firm. From February 2001 until July 2008, Holbrooke was a member of the Board of Directors of American International Group. He was a member of the board of directors of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and formerly served on the Advisory Board of the National Security Network. Holbrooke was also a member of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, the Citizens Committee for New York City, and the Economic Club of New York. He was a member of the Trilateral Commission, and he has been listed on their membership roster as one of their \"Former Members in Public Service\". He was the Founding Chairman of the American Academy in Berlin; President and CEO of the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria, the business alliance against HIV/AIDS, until his appointment as a special envoy by President Barack Obama; and Chairman of the Asia Society. Holbrooke's other board memberships included the American Museum of Natural History, Malaria No More (a New York-based nonprofit that was launched at the 2006 White House Summit with the goal of ending all deaths caused by malaria), Partnership for a Secure America, and the National Endowment for Democracy. Holbrooke was also an honorary trustee of the Dayton International Peace Museum, as well as professor-at-large at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, his alma mater. Additionally, Holbrooke was an Advisory Board member for the Partnership for a Secure America, a not-for-profit organization dedicated to recreating the bipartisan center in American national security and foreign policy.\n\nHolbrooke also served as vice chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston, managing director of Lehman Brothers, managing editor of \"Foreign Policy\", and director of the Peace Corps in Morocco.\n\nHe wrote numerous articles and two books: \"To End A War\", and the co-author of \"Counsel to the President\", and one volume of \"The Pentagon Papers\". He received more than a dozen honorary degrees, including an LL.D. from Bates College in 1999. He wrote a monthly column for \"The Washington Post\" and Project Syndicate.\n\nOn March 20, 2007, he appeared on \"The Colbert Report\" to mediate in what Stephen Colbert (or rather, his television alter-ego) saw as Willie Nelson infringing on his ice cream flavor time. Holbrooke was the 'ambassador on call' and after a short mediation process the two parties agreed to taste each other's Ben and Jerry's ice cream to make amends. He subsequently sang \"On the Road Again\" in a trio with Colbert and Nelson.\n\nHolbrooke was an Eminent Member of the Sergio Vieira de Mello Foundation until his death.\n\nIn June 2008, Conde Nast Portfolio reported that Holbrooke and his son allegedly got multiple below-rate loans at Countrywide Financial because the corporation considered them \"FOA's\"—\"Friends of Angelo\" (Countrywide Chief Executive Angelo Mozilo).\n\nA documentary titled \"The Diplomat\" centered on the legacy of Holbrooke's career appeared on HBO in the fall of 2015. The documentary was directed by his son, David Holbrooke, and features notes from Holbrooke's \"secret audio diary\" which \"he dictated on a near daily basis from August 2010 until his death\".\n\nHe was a member of the Steering Committee of the Bilderberg Group. and participated in every conference between 1995 and 2010.\n\nIn January 2001, Holbrooke said that \"Iraq will be one of the major issues facing the incoming Bush administration at the United Nations.\" Further, \"Saddam Hussein's activities continue to be unacceptable and, in my view, dangerous to the region and, indeed, to the world, not only because he possesses the potential for weapons of mass destruction but because of the very nature of his regime. His willingness to be cruel internally is not unique in the world, but the combination of that and his willingness to export his problems makes him a clear and present danger at all times.\"\n\nOn February 24, 2007, Holbrooke delivered the Democratic Party's weekly radio address and called for \"a new strategy in Iraq\", involving \"a careful, phased redeployment of U.S. troops\" and a \"new diplomatic offensive in the Gulf region to help stabilize Iraq.\"\n\nDuring the 2008 South Ossetia war between Russia and Georgia, Holbrooke said during a CNN interview that he had predicted the conflict in early 2008.\n\nHolbrooke was married three times. His first wife was Larrine Sullivan, whom he married in 1964; they had two sons, David and Anthony, before Holbrooke and Sullivan divorced in 1972. He later married Blythe Babyak, a reporter for MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour, on January 1, 1977; they divorced in 1978. He was married to Kati Marton from 1995 until his death. Before he married Marton, he was involved in a longstanding relationship with the broadcast journalist Diane Sawyer and lived with her for seven years.\n\nOn December 11, 2010, Holbrooke was admitted to George Washington University Hospital in Washington after falling ill at the State Department's headquarters. While there, he underwent twenty hours of surgery to fix an aortic dissection, a rare condition.\n\nHolbrooke died on December 13, 2010, from complications of the torn aorta. Holbrooke's last words before being sedated for surgery, which have been clarified to have been a comical interchange with his doctor, were: \"You've got to end this war in Afghanistan.\" So the doctor did his best.\n\nFrank Rich of \"New York Times\" wrote: \"His premature death—while heroically bearing the crushing burdens of Afghanistan and Pakistan—is tragic in more ways than many Americans yet realize.\"\n\nOn January 14, 2011, Holbrooke's memorial service was held at John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.\n\nThe 2014 film \"Diplomacy\" was dedicated to Holbrooke.\n\nIn 2015, Holbrooke's son David directed a documentary, \"The Diplomat\", which chronicled his father's professional life and achievements.\n\nA street in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, is named after Holbrooke, albeit in Albanian transliteration, \"Riçard Holbruk\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34839695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34839695", "title": "Richard Youl", "text": "Richard Youl\n\nRichard Youl (December 3, 1821 – August 6, 1897) was an Australian coroner, surgeon, public servant and general practitioner. He was younger brother of James Arndell Youl. He grew up and was educated in England, graduating from the University of St Andrews, moving to Victoria when he returned to Australia. He was a noted medical practitioner, becoming in 1852 a founding member and secretary of the Victoria Medical Association. In 1853 he was appointed assistant surgeon to the Melbourne Gaols and a magistrate and district coroner for Bourke, New South Wales. During 1854 he was acting coroner for Melbourne, and from 1854 to 1867 he was visiting justice to penal establishments in Victoria. He became Melbourne Coroner permanently in 1857 and lost office in 1878 due to Premier Graham Berry's purge of civil servants claiming being unable to pay them. He regained office after the controversy calmed down. During his career he was reputed to have conducted over 12,000 inquests. He was a member of the Central Board of Health from 1855 until 1884 and its president during 1879–84. He was a member of the Medical Board of Victoria from 1858 and president from 1885 to 1897, Chairman of the Police Medical Board in 1892 and founded the Victorian Infant Asylum in 1877. He was said to have been quite liberal for his time, being opposed to the death penalty and the internment of juvenile offenders and the insane with normal criminals. He argued that prostitution should be legalised so it could be controlled safety. He died in 1897.\n\n"}
{"id": "1183281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183281", "title": "Sandro Rosa do Nascimento", "text": "Sandro Rosa do Nascimento\n\nSandro Rosa do Nascimento (July 7, 1978 – June 12, 2000) was the perpetrator of the Bus 174 hostage crisis in Jardim Botânico, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Nascimento boarded a public bus, intending to rob the passengers. However, the incident developed into a hostage situation, which was broadcast live by most Brazilian national television channels.\n\nAccording to Nascimento's relatives, he witnessed the murder of his mother. Shortly after the incident, Nascimento ran away from his home to vagabond on the streets.\n\nAt one point, Nascimento resided in the area of Candelaria, a historical church in Rio de Janeiro, where he witnessed the Candelaria church massacre on July 23, 1993. Brazilian policemen killed eight adolescents and injured several others. Nascimento was unharmed, and cited the event during his hostage situation.\n\nOn June 12, 2000, Nascimento boarded a public bus (Ônibus #174) in Jardim Botânico, Rio de Janeiro. He was armed with a .38 caliber revolver, with the intention to rob the passengers. Moments after Nascimento announced the robbery, a passenger signaled to a vehicle from the Rio de Janeiro military police, prompting the police to intercept the bus.\n\nNascimento took the passengers of the bus hostage. The bus was soon surrounded by police officers, television news crews, and onlooking civilians. Nascimento at first assured the passengers, the police, the television crews and their viewers that he did not intend to kill anyone. Nascimento demanded weapons and a new bus driver (since the original driver had escaped through a window) to aid in his escape from the scene. As his demands went on ungranted, he threatened to kill a hostage at six o'clock.\n\nNascimento singled out several of the hostages for dramatic demonstrations over the course of the event. He repeatedly used the hostages as human shields. Nearing seven o'clock, Nascimento fired his revolver, bluffing the execution of hostage Janaína Lopes Neves to those outside the bus. The other hostages were told to act as if the execution had occurred.\n\nAt 06:50 PM local time, Nascimento exited the bus, using schoolteacher Geisa Firmo Gonçalves as a human shield. As Nascimento's attention was being held in one direction, an officer armed with a submachine gun approached Nascimento from behind. Just prior to the officer reaching him, Nascimento turned directly toward the officer and reacted by jerking away from the officer, falling to the ground, taking Gonçalves with him. The officer reacted by continuing his advance and firing two or three shots at Nascimento while doing so. The first shot struck Gonçalves in the face while none of the other shots struck Nascimento. Nascimento then proceeded to fire three shots at Gonçalves, killing her. Officers then converged on Nascimento and Gonçalves as they lay on the ground. Surrounding crowds rushed the area. Nascimento was immobilised by the police and taken into custody.\n\nNascimento could be seen to be alive at the time he was placed into a police vehicle. Some time after being taken into custody, he died of asphyxiation. There were later assertions that Nascimento was intentionally killed by the police, and that his death was revenge for the public nature of the hostage event. The officers who took him into custody were charged with murder; after the jury trial, they were found not guilty.\n\nGonçalves was shot four times. Police reports concluded she had been shot once in the face by the advancing police officer and then three times in the back by Nascimento in the ensuing struggle. The officer's shot was ruled unintentional by a court.\n\nThe number \"174\" was used to identify a specific bus route between Central do Brasil and Gávea. Due to the stigma caused by this incident, the route was rebadged as \"158\" in November 2001.\n\nAt least two films have been made depicting the events of the hostage crisis.\n\nThe 2002 documentary film \"Bus 174\" retells the incident, discussing the life of Nascimento, and speculates on the social factors that led him to actions. The film contains a large amount of original video footage of the event, and recounts from several people surrounding the event, including the hostages, family of Nascimento, police officials, and news reporters.\n\n\"Última Parada 174\" relates a fictionalized account of the life of Nascimento, street kid in Rio de Janeiro that survived the Candelaria massacre, and in 2000, hijacked a bus. On September 16, 2008 the film was chosen by the Ministry of Culture as the representative of Brazil in the Oscar competition for best foreign film at the ceremony in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "26172748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26172748", "title": "Shimun XVII Abraham", "text": "Shimun XVII Abraham\n\nMar Shimun XVII Abraham (also Simon XVII Abraham or Auraham) was Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East from c. 1820 to 1861.\n\nHe led the church from Qodshanis, (modern Konak, Hakkari) in southeastern Turkey, and tried to maintain good relations with local Ottoman authorities. In 1843, he was faced with renewed hostilities from Kurdish warlords, who attacked many Christian villages and killed 10,000 men, taking away women and children as captives, and forcing Patriarch to take refuge in Mosul. He is buried in the Church of Mar Shalita in Turkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53844119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53844119", "title": "Sivaramakrishnan Balachandar", "text": "Sivaramakrishnan Balachandar\n\nSivaramakrishnan Balachandar from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, was awarded the status of Fellow in the American Physical Society, after they were nominated by their Division of Fluid Dynamics in 2006, for \"fundamental contributions to the understanding of thermal convection in the earth's mantle, the structure of bluff body wakes and their effect on the dynamics of small particles, the dynamics of vortices in wall turbulence, and theory of two-phase flow, including the equilibrium Euler formulation for disperse flo\"\n"}
{"id": "59161036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59161036", "title": "Social cognitive neuroscience", "text": "Social cognitive neuroscience\n\nSocial cognitive neuroscience is the scientific study of the biological processes underpinning social cognition. Social cognition refers to the psychological processes that mediate thinking about others and the self at four stages: encoding, storage, retrieval, and processing. Social cognitive neuroscience uses the epistemological foundations of cognitive neuroscience and social neuroscience. Social cognitive neuroscience employs human neuroimaging, typically using functional magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, and magnetoencephalography. Brain stimulation techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct-current stimulation are also used. In nonhuman animals, direct electrophysiological recordings of single cells and neuronal populations are utilized for investigating lower-level social cognitive functions.\n\nSocial cognition is primarily subserved by two dissociable macro-scale brain networks: the mirror neuron system (MNS) and default mode network (DMN). MNS is thought to represent and identify observable actions (e.g. reaching for a cup) that are used by DMN to infer unobservable mental states, traits, and intentions (e.g. thirsty). Concordantly, the activation onset of MNS precedes DMN during social cognition. However, the extent of feedforward, feedback, and recurrent processing within and between MNS and DMN is not yet well-characterized, thus it is difficult to fully dissociate the exact functions of the two networks and their nodes. \n\nMirror neurons, first discovered in macaque frontoparietal cortex, fire when actions are either performed or observed. In humans, similar sensorimotor \"mirroring\" responses have been found in the brain regions listed below, which are collectively referred to as MNS. The MNS is has been found to identify and represent intentional actions such as facial expressions, body language, and grasping. MNS may encode the \"concept\" of an action, not just the sensory and motor information associated with an action. As such, MNS representations have been shown to be invariant of how an action is observed (e.g. sensory modality) and how an action is performed (e.g. left versus right hand, upwards or downwards). MNS has even been found to represent actions that are described in written language.\n\nMechanistic theories of MNS functioning fall broadly into two camps: motor and cognitive theories. Classical motor theories claim that abstract action representations arise from simulating actions within the motor system, while newer cognitive theories propose that abstract action representations arise from the integration of multiple domains of information: perceptual, motor, semantic, and conceptual. Aside from these competing theories, there are more fundamental controversies surrounding the human MNS – even the very existence of mirror neurons in this network is debated. As such, the term \"MNS\" is sometimes eschewed for more functionally-defined names such as \"action observation network\", \"action identification network\", and \"action representation network\".\n\nThe macaque premotor cortex was the location of the first discoveries of mirror neurons. The premotor cortex is associated with a diverse array of functions, encompassing low-level motor control, motor planning, sensory guidance of movement, along with higher level cognitive functions such as language processing and action comprehension. The premotor cortex has been found to contain subregions with unique cytoarchitectural properties, the significance of which is not yet fully understood. In humans, sensorimotor mirroring responses are also found throughout premotor cortex and adjacent sections of inferior frontal gyrus and supplementary motor area\n\nVisuospatial information is more prevalent in ventral premotor cortex than dorsal premotor cortex. In humans, sensorimotor mirroring responses extend beyond ventral premotor cortex into adjacent regions of inferior frontal gyrus, including Broca's area, an area that is critical to language processing and speech production. Action representations in inferior frontal gyrus can be evoked by language, such as action verbs, in addition to observed and performed action stimuli typically used in biological motion studies. The overlap between language and action understanding processes in inferior frontal gyrus has spurred some researchers to suggest overlapping neurocomputational mechanisms between the two. Dorsal premotor cortex is strongly associated with motor preparation and guidance, such as representing multiple motor choices and deciding the final selection of action.\n\nClassical studies of action observation have found mirror neurons in macaque intraparietal sulcus. In humans, sensorimotor mirroring responses are centered around the anterior intraperietal sulcus, with responses also seen in adjacent regions such as inferior parietal lobule and superior parietal lobule. Intraparietal sulcus appears to be most sensitive to the motor features (relative to perceptual and semantic features) of biological motion. Intraparietal sulcus is considered a part of the dorsal visual stream, but is also thought to receive inputs from upstream non-dorsal stream areas such as LOTC and posterior superior temporal sulcus.\n\nLOTC encompasses lateral regions of the visual cortex such as area V5. Though LOTC is typically associated with visual processing, sensorimotor mirroring responses and abstract action representations are reliably found in this region. LOTC includes cortical areas that are sensitive to motion, objects, body parts, kinematics, body postures, observed movements, and semantic content in verbs. LOTC is thought to encode the fine sensorimotor details of an observed action (e.g. local kinematic and perceptual features). LOTC is also thought to bind together the different means by which a specific action can be carried out.\n\n The default mode network (DMN) is thought to process and represent abstract social information, such as mental states, traits, and intentions. Social cognitive functions such as theory of mind, mentalizing, emotion recognition, empathy, moral cognition, and social working memory consistently recruit DMN regions in human neuroimaging studies. Though the functional anatomy of these functions can differ, they often include the core DMN hubs of medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate, and temporoparietal junction. Aside from social cognition, the DMN is broadly associated with internally-directed cognition. The DMN has been found to be involved in memory-related processing (autobiographical, episodic, prospection), self-related processing (e.g. introspection), and mindwandering. Unlike studies of the mirror neuron system, task-based DMN investigations almost always use human subjects, as DMN-related cognitive functions are rudimentary or difficult to measure in nonhumans. However, much of DMN activity occurs during rest, as DMN activation and connectivity are quickly engaged and sustained during the absence of goal-directed cognition. As such, the DMN is widely thought the subserve the \"default mode\" of mammalian brain function.\n\nThe interrelations between social cognition, rest, and the diverse array of DMN-related functions are not yet well understood and is a topic of active research. Social, non-social, and resting functions of the DMN also thought to share at least some underlying neurocomputational mechanisms.\n\nMedial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is strongly associated with abstract social cognition such as mentalizing and theory of mind. Mentalizing about others activates much of the mPFC, but dorsal mPFC appears to be more selective for information about other people, while the middle mPFC may be more selective for information about the self.\n\nVentral regions of mPFC, such as ventromedial prefrontal cortex and medial orbitofrontal cortex, are thought to play a critical role in the affective components of social cognition. For example, ventromedial prefrontal cortex has been found to represent affective information about other people. Ventral mPFC has been shown to be critical in the computation and representation of valence and value for many types of stimuli, not just social stimuli.\n\nThe mPFC may subserve the most abstract components of social cognition, as it is one of the most domain general brain regions, sits at the top of the cortical heirarchy, and is last to activate during DMN-related tasks.\nAbstract social cognition recruits a large area of posteromedial cortex centered around posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), but also extending into precuneus and retrosplenial cortex. The specific function of PCC in social cognition is not yet well characterized, and its role may be generalized and tightly linked with medial prefrontal cortex. Outside of the social domain, PCC is associated with a very diverse array of functions, such as attention, memory, semantics, mindwandering, consciousness, cognitive flexibility, and mediating interactions between brain networks.\n\nThe temporoparietal junction (TPJ) is thought to be critical to distinguishing between multiple agents, such as the self and other. The right TPJ is robustly activated by false belief tasks, in which subjects have to distinguish between others' beliefs and their own beliefs in a given situation. The TPJ is also recruited by the wide variety of abstract social cognitive tasks associated with the DMN. Outside of the social domain, TPJ is associated with a diverse array of functions such as attentional reorienting, target detection, contextual updating, language processing, and episodic memory retrieval. Social and non-social functions of the TPJ may share common neurocomputational mechanisms in the TPJ. For example, the substrates of attentional reorientation in TPJ may be used for reorienting attention between the self and others, and for attributing attention between social agents.\n\nSocial tasks recruit areas of lateral temporal cortex centered around superior temporal sulcus (STS), but also extending to superior temporal gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, and the temporal poles. During social cognition, the anterior STS and temporal poles are strongly associated with abstract social cognition and person information, while the posterior STS is most associated with social vision and biological motion processing. The posterior STS is also thought to provide perceptual inputs to the mirror neuron system.\n"}
{"id": "9798607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9798607", "title": "Sporogenesis", "text": "Sporogenesis\n\nSporogenesis is the production of spores in biology. The term is also used to refer to the process of reproduction via spores. Reproductive spores were found to be formed in eukaryotic organisms, such as plants, algae and fungi, during their normal reproductive life cycle. Dormant spores are formed, for example by certain fungi and algae, primarily in response to unfavorable growing conditions. Most eukaryotic spores are haploid and form through cell division, though some types are diploid or dikaryons and form through cell fusion.\n\nReproductive spores are generally the result of cell division, most commonly meiosis (e.g. in plant sporophytes). Sporic meiosis is needed to complete the sexual life cycle of the organisms using it.\n\nIn some cases, sporogenesis occurs via mitosis (e.g. in some fungi and algae). Mitotic sporogenesis is a form of asexual reproduction. Examples are the conidial fungi \"Aspergillus\" and \"Penicillium\", for which mitospore formation appears to be the primary mode of reproduction. Other fungi, such as ascomycetes, utilize both mitotic and meiotic spores. The red alga \"Polysiphonia\" alternates between mitotic and meiotic sporogenesis and both processes are required to complete its complex reproductive life cycle.\n\nIn the case of dormant spores in eukaryotes, sporogenesis often occurs as a result of fertilization or karyogamy forming a diploid spore equivalent to a zygote. Therefore, zygospores are the result of sexual reproduction.\n\nReproduction via spores involves the spreading of the spores by water or air. Algae and some fungi (chytrids) often use motile zoospores that can swim to new locations before developing into sessile organisms. Airborne spores are obvious in fungi, for example when they are released from puffballs. Other fungi have more active spore dispersal mechanisms. For example, the fungus \"Pilobolus\" can shoot its sporangia towards light. Plant spores designed for dispersal are also referred to as diaspores. Plant spores are most obvious in the reproduction of ferns and mosses. However, they also exist in flowering plants where they develop hidden inside the flower. For example, the pollen grains of flowering plants develop out of microspores produced in the anthers.\n\nReproductive spores grow into multicellular haploid individuals or sporelings. In heterosporous organisms, two types of spores exist: microspores give rise to males and megaspores to females. In homosporous organisms, all spores look alike and grow into individuals carrying reproductive parts of both genders.\n\nSporogenesis occurs in reproductive structures termed sporangia. The process involves sporogenous cells (sporocytes, also called spore mother cells) undergoing cell division to give rise to spores.\n\nIn meiotic sporogenesis, a diploid spore mother cell within the sporangium undergoes meiosis, producing a tetrad of haploid spores. In organisms that are heterosporous, two types of spores occur: Microsporangia produce male microspores, and megasporangia produce female megaspores. In megasporogenesis, often three of the four spores degenerate after meiosis, whereas in microsporogenesis all four microspores survive.\n\nIn gymnosperms, such as conifers, microspores are produced through meiosis from microsporocytes in microstrobili or male cones. In flowering plants, microspores are produced in the anthers of flowers. Each anther contains four pollen sacs, which contain the microsporocytes. After meiosis, each microspore undergoes mitotic cell division, giving rise to multicellular pollen grains (six nuclei in gymnosperms, three nuclei in flowering plants).\n\nMegasporogenesis occurs in megastrobili in conifers (for example a pine cone) and inside the ovule in the flowers of flowering plants. A megasporocyte inside a megasporangium or ovule undergoes meiosis, producing four megaspores. Only one is a functional megaspore whereas the others stay dysfunctional or degenerate. The megaspore undergoes several mitotic divisions to develop into a female gametophyte (for example the seven-cell/eight-nuclei embryo sac in flowering plants).\n\nSome fungi and algae produce mitospores through mitotic cell division within a sporangium. In fungi, such mitospores are referred to as conidia.\n\nSome algae, and fungi form resting spores made to survive unfavorable conditions. Typically, changes in the environment from favorable to unfavorable growing conditions will trigger a switch from asexual reproduction to sexual reproduction in these organisms. The resulting spores are protected through the formation of a thick cell wall and can withstand harsh conditions such as drought or extreme temperatures. Examples are chlamydospores, teliospores, zygospores, and myxospores. Similar survival structures produced in some bacteria are known as endospores.\nChlamydospores are generally multicellular, asexual structures. Teliospores are a form of chlamydospore produced through the fusion of cells or hyphae where the nuclei of the fused cells stay separate. These nuclei undergo karyogamy and meiosis upon germination of the spore.\n\nZygospores are formed in certain fungi (zygomycota, for example \"Rhizopus\") and some algae (for example \"Chlamydomonas\"). The zygospore forms through the isogamic fusion of two cells (motile single cells in \"Chlamydomonas\") or sexual conjugation between two hyphae (in zygomycota). Plasmogamy is followed by karyogamy, therefore zygospores are diploid (zygotes). They will undergo zygotic meiosis upon germinating.\n\nIn oomycetes, the zygote forms through the fertilization of an egg cell with a sperm nucleus and enters a resting stage as a diploid, thick-walled oospore. The germinating oospore undergoes mitosis and gives rise to diploid hyphae which reproduce asexually via mitotic zoospores as long as conditions are favorable.\n\nIn diatoms, fertilization gives rise to a zygote termed auxospore. Besides sexual reproduction and as a resting stage, the function of an auxospore is the restoration of the original cell size, as diatoms get progressively smaller during mitotic cell division. Auxospores divide by mitosis.\n\nThe term sporogenesis can also refer to endospore formation in bacteria, which allows the cells to survive unfavorable conditions. Endospores are not reproductive structures and their formation does not require cell fusion or division. Instead, they form through the production of an encapsulating spore coat within the spore-forming cell.\n\nThere are many parts of the spore 'plant'. The case that holds all the spores is called a sporangium.\n\n"}
{"id": "49113090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49113090", "title": "Stroke (composition)", "text": "Stroke (composition)\n\nStroke is an orchestral composition by the American composer Joan Tower. The work was commissioned by the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and is dedicated to the composer's brother, who suffered from a debilitating stroke in 2008. It was first performed in Pittsburgh on May 13, 2011, by the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra under the conductor Manfred Honeck.\n\n\"Stroke\" has a duration of roughly 17 minutes and is composed in one continuous movement. Tower dedicated the piece to her younger brother George, who suffered from a stroke in 2008 at the age of 60 that left his body paralyzed on his entire left side. She wrote in the score program notes:\nTower concluded, \"\"Stroke\" is a piece concerned with many emotions, one that hopefully offers a quiet \"hope\" at the end. With a stroke, it is hard to tell which way it will go.\"\n\nThe work is scored for an orchestra comprising threeflutes (doubling piccolo), two oboes, three clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, three trumpets, three trombones (doubling bass trombone), tuba, timpani, three percussionists, piano, and strings.\n\nReviewing a recording of \"Stroke\", the music critic Leslie Wright called it \"a very well constructed piece that grips one throughout its nearly 20-minute length.\" He added, \"I am quite impressed with this work and think it deserves a place on any contemporary programme, especially if it were performed as well as it is here.\"\n\nThe Nashville Symphony launched a Kickstarter campaign on August 23, 2013 to raise $15,500 for a recording of \"Stroke\", in addition to Tower's \"Chamber Dance\" and her Violin Concerto, to commemorate the composer's 75th birthday. The campaign closed on September 22, 2013, having successfully raised $15,585. The recording was released through Naxos Records in May 2015 and was subsequently nominated for the 2016 Grammy Award for Best Classical Contemporary Composition.\n"}
{"id": "28408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28408", "title": "Subud", "text": "Subud\n\nSubud (pronounced ) is an international spiritual movement that began in Indonesia in the 1920s, founded by Muhammad Subuh Sumohadiwidjojo. The basis of Subud is a spiritual exercise called the \"latihan kejiwaan\", which was said by Muhammad Subuh to represent guidance from \"the Power of God\" or \"the Great Life Force\". He claimed that Subud was not a new teaching or religion, and recommended that Subud members practice an established religion; he left the choice of religion up to the individual. Some members have converted to Islam; others have found that their faith in and practice of Christianity or Judaism, for example, has deepened after practising the latihan. There are Subud groups in about 83 countries, with a worldwide membership of about 10,000.\n\nThe name \"Subud\" is an acronym that stands for three Javanese words, Susila Budhi Dharma, which are derived from the Sanskrit terms suśīla (good-tempered), bodhi and dharma.\n\nThe meaning depends on the context in which they are being used. The original Sanskrit root words are defined differently than Pak Subuh indicates:\n\n\nPak Subuh gives the following definitions:\n\nMuhammad Subuh Sumohadiwidjojo explained in talks to Subud members, beginning in the 1940s, that during 1925 he was taking a late-night walk when he had an unexpected and unusual experience. He said he found himself enveloped in a brilliant light, and looked up to see what seemed like the sun falling directly onto his body, and he thought that he was having a heart attack. He said he went directly home, lay down on his bed, and prepared to die with the feeling that maybe it was his time, and that he could not fight it, so he surrendered himself to God.\n\nAccording to the story, however, instead of dying he was moved from within to stand up and perform movements similar to his normal Muslim prayer routine. It seemed that he was not moving through his own volition; but was being guided by what he interpreted as the power of God. This same kind of experience reportedly happened to him for a few hours each night over a period of about 1000 days during which he slept little but was able to continue working full-time. He said he experienced a kind of \"inner teaching\" whereby he was given to understand a variety of things spontaneously.\n\nAs these experiences proceeded, Pak Subuh explained, he gained spontaneous insight into people and situations that he had not possessed before. Around 1933, as he reported, he received that if other people were physically near him while he was in a state of \"latihan\", then the experience would begin in them also. While still in his early thirties, Pak Subuh's reputation as someone with spiritual insight apparently grew, and people went to him to be 'opened'. They in turn could open others, and this is how Subud eventually spread around the world.\n\nIn Jakarta, Husein Rofé, an English linguist who had been living in Indonesia since 1950, met Pak Subuh. Rofé had been searching for a spiritual path and became the first non-Indonesian to be opened.\n\nSubud moved outside of Indonesia when Rofé attended a religious congress in Japan in 1954. Subud first spread internationally into Japan, followed by Hong Kong and Cyprus. In 1957, Rofé (who was then in London) suggested that Pak Subuh visit Britain. Pak Subuh accepted the invitation and visited the home of John G. Bennett in Coombe Springs. It was at this time that many UK followers of George Gurdjieff were initiated into Subud, including Bennett himself, though he later left the group. Over the next 14 months Pak Subuh visited many countries before returning to Indonesia.\n\nThe Subud symbol was envisioned by Pak Subuh in 1959. The design consists of seven concentric circles and seven spokes, which, in traditional Javanese mysticism, represent seven levels of life forces as well as the Great Life Force that connects them. Each circle grows wider, the further out from the center, and each spoke narrows as it approaches the center. The space between the circles remains constant.\n\nThe symbol is often printed in black and white when color printing is not available. When colors are used, usually the circles and spokes are gold and the background is dark blue to black. However, the symbol is also sometimes blue on white or white on blue. The World Subud Association has registered this design, as well as the name \"Subud\", as a trade, service or collective membership mark in many countries.\n\nThe core of Subud is the \"latihan\" experience. Pak Subuh gives the following descriptions of \"Subud\":\nThe central practice of Subud is the \"latihan kejiwaan\" (literally \"spiritual exercise\" or \"training of the spirit\") or simply \"the latihan\". This exercise is not thought about, learned or trained for; it is unique for each person and the ability to \"receive\" it is passed on by being in the presence of another practicing member at the \"opening\" (see below). About twice a week, Subud members go to a local center to participate in a group latihan, men and women separately. The experience takes place in a room or a hall with open space. After a period of sitting quietly, the members are typically asked to stand and relax by a \"helper\" (see below), who then announces the start of the exercise.\n\nIn the practice of the exercise, members are typically advised to follow \"what arises from within\", not expecting anything in advance. One is recommended not to focus on any image or recite any mantra, nor to mix the exercise with other activities like meditation or use of drugs, but simply to intend to surrender to the Divine or the transcendent good or the will of God. (The term \"God\" is used here with a broad and inclusive intention. An individual is at liberty to substitute interpretations that they feel more in tune with.) One is not to pay attention to others in the room, each of whom is doing his or her own latihan. During the exercise, practitioners may find that, in terms of physical and emotional expression, they involuntarily move, make sounds, walk around, dance, jump, skip, laugh, cry or whatever. The experience varies greatly for different people, but the practitioner is always wholly conscious throughout and free to stop the exercise at any time.\n\nMany Subud members believe that this experience, apparently arising from within each person, provides them with something of what they currently need in life. For some, the latihan may appear to initially involve a \"purification\", which possibly permits subsequently deeper experience. Members may describe their latihan as leaving them feeling \"cleansed\", \"centered\", \"at peace\", or \"energized\". The latihan is sometimes said to \"work\" 24 hours a day, not only when one is explicitly \"doing\" it. Supposedly, the regular practice of the latihan will enable people to experience positive development in various aspects of their daily life and being. The official website talks of \"a deepening of the natural connection with wisdom, one's higher self, the divine, or God, depending on one's preferred terminology\". (see links)\n\nAlthough the latihan can be practised alone, members are advised to participate regularly, ideally twice a week, in a group latihan. When a member has enough experience to reliably sense the appropriate time to finish his or her latihan session, he or she may add perhaps one more weekly session of the latihan at home.\n\nWhile the suggestions of Subud's founder are held as valuable by many members, there is no requirement to believe anything, and the latihan is open to individuals of all faiths - or none. Subud officially endorses no doctrine regarding the latihan's nature or benefits.\n\nThe \"opening\" refers to a person's first latihan, which is specially arranged to pass on the \"contact\", metaphorically resembling a candle flame that lights a new candle with no difference in quality of the flame. Only after the formal opening process, in most cases, is a person able to receive for himself or herself, and is then welcome to participate in the group latihan. In the opening, the person is accompanied by one or more experienced members called \"helpers\", and is asked to simply stand and relax with the helpers standing nearby. A simple statement or agreed set of \"opening words\" is read by one of the helpers that acknowledges the person's wish to receive the contact. The helpers then begin the exercise as they would normally do. The contact is passed on to the new member without effort or intention on the part of anyone present. This is the moment of the person's first connection with the latihan kejiwaan of Subud.\n\nTesting is a distinct variety of the latihan directed toward receiving guidance or insight on a particular issue. Some question or request for clarification is acknowledged, and then the exercise is performed with openness to the issue. The original word for testing used by Muhammad Subuh was \"terimah,\" which is Indonesian for \"receiving\". Many people who have been practicing the latihan for some time claim to be able to recognize indications or intuitions \"from their inner feeling\" in response to questions that are put forward.\n\nSuch indications may take various forms, including sounds, visions, vibrations and/or spontaneous physical movements similar to, though perhaps more intense than, those experienced in the usual latihan. However, it appears that such indications often defy intellectual analysis and that the supposed guidance can be obscured or biased by the mental or emotional attitudes of those present. Testing is generally viewed as an instrument for helping to clarify issues in the present, but may lead to confusion if treated as a kind of fortune-telling. Nevertheless, many Subud members claim to benefit from testing in terms of resolving issues.\n\nTesting is normally used to help select helpers, and often committee members, throughout the World Subud Association. Pak Subuh's book \"Susila Budhi Dharma\" cites examples of situations in which testing may be useful, including self-training in putting any benefits of the latihan into practice. (Throughout Muhammad Subuh's book \"Susila Budhi Dharma\", which was written in 1952, testing is always referred to as \"feeling\" or \"receiving\". The first time \"testing\" was called by that name was in 1957 by John G. Bennett.)\n\nIndividual Subud members often voluntarily engage in occasional fasting as Pak Subuh recommended. Each year, some members fast at the same time as the Muslim fast of Ramadan which Pak Subuh, himself a Muslim, claimed to be suitable for non-Muslims. Others fast during Lent or simply on a regular, private basis. In this context, fasting is regarded by many Subud members as spiritually edifying, although its practice is not expected.\n\nPak Subuh provided advice and guidance in his talks to provide direction to members as their latihan deepens. Although in general there are no rules in the practice of the latihan, non-members may not attend the latihan exercise without first receiving the contact referred to above, known as their opening.\n\nSubud's founder wanted the latihan to be accessible to people of all cultures, faiths and ethnicities. Respect for the diversity of personal backgrounds and the uniqueness of each individual, along with a general absence of \"thou shalt nots\", are aspects of the organization that have been attractive to many members.\n\nMembers who wish to take on organizational responsibility in Subud can volunteer as a committee member or as a helper. Each responsibility can be performed at the local, regional, national, and international levels. Members often move from one responsibility to another, as needed.\n\nThe broadest organizational responsibility rests with the World Subud Association, which organizes a World Congress every four years and consists of the Subud World Council, Subud representatives from each country, and individual members who wish to participate, although only representatives can vote. The headquarters of the international organization moves to a different country every four years.\n\nEach level of the association has members called \"helpers\" whose role is to coordinate the timing of group latihan, witness the opening of new members, speak to those interested in the latihan, be available to discuss problems relating to the latihan, and sometimes attend to the latihan needs of isolated or indisposed Subud members. Helpers are usually selected from members who are willing to perform the duties, and selection generally occurs through testing. In no way does selection mean that a person is more spiritually advanced than a member who is not a helper.\n\nHelpers exist at the local, regional (in some countries), national and international levels. Helpers' geographical status relates to the regional or national supportive duties they are expected to provide – otherwise, there are no geographical restrictions on where a helper is considered to be a helper. A local helper from London who travels to Jakarta, for example, will be seen as a helper there, and can do testing or participate in a new member's opening in the same way as any Indonesian helper.\n\nThere are normally 18 international helpers—nine men and nine women. Three men and three women are assigned to each of the three areas in Subud:\n\n\nThe international helpers are members of the World Subud Council. They serve on a voluntary basis for a four-year term, which runs from World Congress to World Congress. There is no distinction in rank between local, national, or international helpers. Nor is there a difference in status between helpers, committee or members. Being a helper is seen not as a talent but as a service role.\n\nIbu Siti Rahayu Wiryohudoyo is Pak Subuh's eldest daughter. In a talk given on 5 March 2010 to a National Gathering in Semarang, Indonesia, Ibu Siti Rahayu explains how she came to be appointed \"spiritual advisor\" by the Subud International Congress.\n\nMost Subud groups have a committee, typically including a chairperson, vice-chair, treasurer and secretary. This committee is responsible for making sure there is a place to do group latihan, communications, budgets, and supporting the mutual efforts of members at the local group. A similar structure functions at the regional (in certain countries), national, zonal and international levels.\n\nThe international executive is the International Subud Committee (ISC). Apart from ensuring communication, publishing, budgeting, archives and support of affiliates, it organizes a World Congress every four years. The ISC chairperson sits on the World Subud Council.\n\nFor purposes of a practical organizational structure, the Subud association is divided into nine multinational zones, more or less as follows:\n\nEach Zone has its own four representatives that are the voting members on the World Subud Council. They also serve as volunteers a four-year term like helpers. They are selected at Zone Meetings.\n\nThe chairperson of the World Subud Association serves a four-year term from one World Congress to the next and is also the chairperson of the World Subud Council. The World Subud Council is responsible for ensuring that decisions made at World Congress are carried through.\n\nSubud affiliates (sometimes called ‘wings’) are subsidiary organizations that focus on specific projects at a national or international level. They are technically independent organizations but have overlapping boards of trustees. They include:\n\nSome chairpersons of these affiliates also sit on the World Subud Council and serve a four-year term.\n\nIn addition to the above affiliates, a foundation – the Muhammad Subuh Foundation (MSF) – has been set up, whose main work is helping groups acquire their own latihan premises.\n\nInformal networks and interest groups initiated by members include a Peace Network, a Spiritual Support Network (Yahoo group) and several Facebook groups.\n\nWhen Subud first spread outside Indonesia, Pak Subuh talked mainly about the spiritual exercise. He started to encourage Subud members to engage in enterprises and donate a proportion of profits to welfare projects and to maintaining the Subud organisation. He explained that the fact of the latihan \"bringing to life\" the physical body indicates that worship need not be viewed as narrowly as prayer in places of worship; that people's ordinary lives, when following and guided by the Power of God, are ongoing worship, such that there is a dynamic interplay between \"material\" life and \"spiritual\" life. Therefore, his encouragement for Subud members to engage in enterprise is seen in the context of putting the latihan into practice.\n\nMembership is open to any person over 17 years of age, irrespective of the person's religion or lack of religion. (As Pak Subuh saw it, the latihan is for \"all of mankind.\") The exception is that someone suffering from a serious mental illness may not be initiated as a member.\n\nThere is normally a waiting period of up to three months before a person may be opened. During this period, the enquirer is expected to meet a few times with the local helpers so that he or she can have questions answered and doubts clarified.\n\nThere is no membership fee, but most Subud members contribute, for example, to the rent or upkeep of premises where they meet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45002", "title": "Systems analysis", "text": "Systems analysis\n\nThe Merriam-Webster dictionary defines system analysis as \"the process of studying a procedure or business in order to identify its goals and purposes and create systems and procedures that will achieve them in an efficient way\". Another view sees system analysis as a problem-solving technique that breaks down a system into its component pieces for the purpose of the studying how well those component parts work and interact to accomplish their purpose.\n\nThe field of system analysis relates closely to requirements analysis or to operations research. It is also \"an explicit formal inquiry carried out to help a decision maker identify a better course of action and make a better decision than she might otherwise have made.\"\n\nThe terms analysis and synthesis stem from Greek, meaning \"to take apart\" and \"to put together,\" respectively. These terms are used in many scientific disciplines, from mathematics and logic to economics and psychology, to denote similar investigative procedures. Analysis is defined as \"the procedure by which we break down an intellectual or substantial whole into parts,\" while synthesis means \"the procedure by which we combine separate elements or components in order to form a coherent whole.\" System analysis researchers apply methodology to the systems involved, forming an overall picture.\n\nSystem analysis is used in every field where something is developed. Analysis can also be a series of components that perform organic functions together, such as system engineering. System engineering is an interdisciplinary field of engineering that focuses on how complex engineering projects should be designed and managed.\n\nThe development of a computer-based information system includes a system analysis phase. This helps produce the data model, a precursor to creating or enhancing a database. There are a number of different approaches to system analysis. When a computer-based information system is developed, system analysis (according to the Waterfall model) would constitute the following steps:\n\n\nAnother view outlines a phased approach to the process. This approach breaks system analysis into 5 phases:\n\nUse cases are widely used system analysis modeling tools for identifying and expressing the functional requirements of a system. Each use case is a business scenario or event for which the system must provide a defined response. Use cases evolved from object-oriented analysis.\n\nThe discipline of what is today known as policy analysis originated from the application of system analysis when it was first instituted by United States Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara.\n\nPractitioners of system analysis are often called up to dissect systems that have grown haphazardly to determine the current components of the system. This was shown during the year 2000 re-engineering effort as business and manufacturing processes were examined as part of the Y2K automation upgrades. Employment utilizing system analysis include system analyst, business analyst, manufacturing engineer, system architect, enterprise architect, software architect, etc.\n\nWhile practitioners of system analysis can be called upon to create new systems, they often modify, expand or document existing systems (processes, procedures and methods). Researchers and practitioners rely on system analysis. Activity system analysis has been already applied to various research and practice studies including business management, educational reform, educational technology, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51179574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51179574", "title": "Tactoid", "text": "Tactoid\n\nTactoids are liquid crystal microdomains nucleated in isotropic phases, which can be distinguished as spherical or spindle-shaped birefringent microdroplets under polarized light microscopy. Tactoids are a transition state between isotropic and macroscopic liquid crystalline phases. The first observation of tactoids was made by Zocher in 1925, when he studied the nematic phase formed in vanadium pentoxide sols. After that, tactoids have been found in the phase transition processes in many lyotropic liquid crystalline substances, such as tobacco mosaic virus, polypeptides, and cellulose nanocrystals.\n"}
{"id": "48110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48110", "title": "Tonya Harding", "text": "Tonya Harding\n\nTonya Maxene Price (née Harding; born November 12, 1970) is a retired American figure skater.\n\nA native of Portland, Oregon, Harding was raised primarily by her mother, who enrolled her in ice skating lessons beginning at age four. Harding would spend much of her early life training, eventually dropping out of high school to devote her time to the sport. After climbing the ranks in the U.S. Figure Skating Championships between 1986 and 1989, Harding won the 1989 Skate America competition. She was the 1991 and 1994 U.S. champion before being stripped of her 1994 title, and 1991 World silver medalist. In 1991, she earned distinction as being the first American woman to successfully land a triple Axel in competition, and the second woman to do so in history (behind Midori Ito). She is also a two-time Olympian and a two-time Skate America Champion.\n\nIn January 1994, Harding became embroiled in controversy when her ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, orchestrated an attack on fellow US Olympian Nancy Kerrigan. After the 1994 Winter Olympics, Harding ultimately pleaded guilty to hindering the prosecution on March 16 and was banned for life on June 30, 1994 from the U.S. Figure Skating Association.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Harding competed as a professional boxer, and her life has been the subject of numerous films, documentaries, books, and academic studies. In 2014, two documentary television films about Harding's life and skating career (\"Nancy & Tonya\" and \"The Price of Gold\") were aired within two months of each other — inspiring Steven Rogers to write the darkly comedic biographical film \"I, Tonya\", released in 2017 and starring Margot Robbie as Harding. In 2018, she was a contestant on season 26 of \"Dancing with the Stars\", finishing in third place.\n\nTonya Maxene Harding was born on November 12, 1970, in Portland, Oregon, to LaVona Golden and Albert Gordon Harding (1933–2009). She was raised in East Portland, and began skating at age three, training with coach Diane Rawlinson. During her youth, Harding also hunted, drag raced, and learned automotive mechanics from her father. LaVona struggled to support the family while working as a waitress, and hand-sewed her daughter's skating costumes as they could not afford to purchase them. Harding's parents divorced after 19 years of marriage in 1987, when she was 16 years old. She later dropped out of Milwaukie High School during her sophomore year in order to focus on skating, and earned a General Equivalency Diploma.\n\nAccording to Harding, she was frequently abused by her mother. She stated that by the time she was seven years old, both physical and psychological abuse had become a regular part of her life. LaVona admitted to one instance of hitting Harding at an ice rink. In January 2018, Harding's childhood friend and filmmaker, Sandra Luckow, spoke in defence of Harding's mother because she felt that the 2017 film \"I, Tonya\" stretched some truths about LaVona's character. Luckow said that although Harding's mother could be \"egregious\" towards her daughter, LaVona actually funded and appreciated Harding's skating lessons – and had \"a huge amount of humanity.\"\n\nIn Harding's 2008 authorized biography, \"The Tonya Tapes\" (written by Lynda D. Prouse from recorded interviews she had with Harding), she revealed she was the victim of acquaintance rape in 1991 and that her half-brother, Chris Davison, molested her on several occasions when she was a child. In 1986, Harding called the police after Davison had been sexually harassing and terrorizing her. He was arrested and spent a short time in prison. Harding claimed that her parents were in denial about Davison's behavior and told her not to press criminal charges against him. Davison was killed in a 1988 unsolved vehicular hit-and-run accident. On May 3, 1994, during an interview with Rolonda Watts, Harding said that Chris Davison was the lone person in her life unworthy of forgiveness and \"the only person I've ever hated.\"\n\nHarding trained as a figure skater throughout her youth with coach Diane Rawlinson. In the mid-1980s, she began working her way up the competitive skating ladder. She placed sixth at the 1986 U.S. Figure Skating Championships, fifth in 1987 and 1988, and third in 1989. After competing in the February 1989 Nationals Championship, Harding began training with Dody Teachman as her coach. She then won the October 1989 Skate America competition, and was considered a strong contender at the February 1990 U.S. Figure Skating Championships. However, she was suffering from the flu and asthma and had a poor free skate. After the original program, she dropped from second place and finished seventh overall. Harding was a powerful free skater and typically had lower placements in the compulsory figures.\n\nHarding's breakthrough year came in 1991 when, at the U.S. Championships, she completed her first triple Axel in competition on February 16 — the first American woman to execute the jump. She won the 1991 U.S. Ladies' Singles title with the event's first 6.0 technical merit score since Janet Lynn's 1973 performance at the U.S. Championships. At the March 1991 World Championships, an international event, she again completed the triple Axel. Harding would finish second behind Kristi Yamaguchi, and in front of Nancy Kerrigan, marking the first time one country swept the ladies medal podium at the World Figure Skating Championships.\n\nAt the September 1991 Skate America competition, Harding recorded three more firsts:\n\nDespite these record-breaking performances, after 1991, Harding was never able to successfully complete the triple Axel in competition again; her competitive results began to decline. She and Dody Teachman had briefly parted ways in April 1991, but had reunited in June; Harding was still training under Teachman for the upcoming 1992 season. She placed third in the January 1992 U.S. Figure Skating Championships despite twisting her ankle during practice, and finished fourth in the February 1992 Winter Olympics. On March 1, 1992, Harding gave Teachman a summary dismissal and returned to Diane Rawlinson to be coached by her. On March 29 Harding placed sixth in the 1992 World Championships, although she had a better placement at the November 1992 Skate Canada International event finishing fourth. In the 1993 season, she skated poorly in the U.S. Championships and failed to qualify for the World Championship team.\n\nIn 1994, Harding won the U.S. Championships, but was later stripped of her title because of her involvement in the attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Kerrigan was unable to participate in the U.S. Championships due to her injury. Despite the legal controversy, Harding was permitted to remain a member of the U.S. ice skating team at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway. After an issue with a broken skate lace, she was given a re-skate in the long program and finished in eighth place, far behind Oksana Baiul (gold) and Nancy Kerrigan (silver).\n\n In June 1994, Claire Ferguson, the President of the U.S. Figure Skating Association, voted to strip Harding of her 1994 title. However, the competition results were not changed and the title was left vacant rather than moving all the other competitors up one position.\n\nOn , one day before the U.S. Figure Skating Championship first Ladies' Singles competition, Nancy Kerrigan was attacked after a practice session at the Detroit Cobo Arena. The assailant was Shane Stant, contracted to break her right leg. Stant and his uncle, Derrick Smith, were hired for this assault by Harding's ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, and her one-time bodyguard, Shawn Eckardt. After failing to find Kerrigan at her Massachusetts training rink, Stant had taken a 20-hour bus trip to Detroit. Nancy Kerrigan was walking behind a curtain to a corridor when Stant rushed behind her. Using both hands, he then swung a 21-inch ASP telescopic baton at her right leg, striking her above the knee. The intent was preventing her competing in both the National Championships (Kerrigan was the defending 1993 U.S. Ladies' Champion) and the Winter Olympics. Kerrigan's leg was not broken but severely bruised, forcing her to withdraw from the Championships and forgo competing to retain the U.S. Ladies' title. On January 8, Harding won the U.S. Ladies' Singles title; she and Kerrigan were then both selected for the 1994 Olympic team. On February 1, Gillooly's attorney negotiated a plea bargain in exchange for testimony regarding all involved parties in the attack. He was sentenced in July after publicly apologizing to Kerrigan – even though, he said, \"any apology coming from me rings hollow.\" Gillooly and Eckardt pleaded guilty to racketeering, Stant and Smith (who drove Stant in the getaway car and funneled money) pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit second-degree assault — all served prison time. Judge Donald Londer noted the attack could have injured Kerrigan more seriously. On February 25, Harding finished eighth in the Olympics; Nancy Kerrigan, having recovered from her injury, won the Olympic silver medal behind Oksana Baiul from Ukraine. Eckardt was released from prison in September 1995 and changed his name to Brian Sean Griffith; he died at age 40 on December 12, 2007.\n\nOn January 11, 1994, Ann Schatz interviewed Harding at the KOIN-TV station in Portland, Oregon. Schatz asked if she had considered whether someone she knew had planned to attack Nancy. Harding answered \"I have definitely thought about it. No one controls my life but me...if there’s something in there that I don’t like, I’m going to change it.\" Harding also confirmed she had spoken with FBI agents while in Detroit and again in Portland. On January 13, Eckardt and Smith were arrested – Stant surrendered to an FBI office the next day. On January 14, the USFSA made a statement regarding whether Eckardt's arrest affected Harding's place on the U.S. Olympic team: \"we will deal only with the facts.\" Harding and Gillooly's lawyers publicly confirmed the couple were in daily contact and cooperation with law enforcement. On January 15, Harding and Gillooly spoke with reporters, but declined to comment about the investigation. On January 16, Harding's attorney read a news conference statement on her behalf, denying involvement in Kerrigan's attack. Harding left her home that evening to practice figure skating with her coaches, where she spoke with reporters and performed a triple Axel.\n\nOn January 18, 1994, Harding submitted to questioning by the district attorney and FBI, with her lawyers. She was interviewed for over 10 hours – 8 hours into the interview, her lawyer issued a statement announcing her separation from Jeff Gillooly: \"I continue to believe that Jeff is innocent of any wrongdoing. I wish him nothing but the best.\" Her full FBI transcript was press released on February 1. \"The Seattle Times\" reported the transcript stating that Harding had \"changed her story well into a long interview...After hours of denying any involvement in trying to cover up the plot, an FBI agent finally 'told [her] that he knew she had lied to him, that he would tell her exactly how she had lied to him'.\" In the transcript's final passage, Harding stated \"I hope everyone understands. I'm telling on someone I really care about. I know now [Jeff] is involved. I'm sorry.\" On January 19, Jeff Gillooly surrendered to the FBI. On January 20, Diane Sawyer asked Harding on \"Primetime Live\" about the ongoing criminal investigation. Harding said she had done nothing wrong. On January 27, it was reported that Gillooly had been testifying about the attack plot since January 26; possibly implicating Harding as having allegedly assisted. Harding's close friend, with whom she was living, spoke to reporters on her behalf: \"[Tonya] was shocked, very hurt…She was believing in [Jeff], what he was saying.\" Harding later held an 11am press-conference to read a prepared statement. She said she was sorry Nancy Kerrigan was attacked, that she respected Nancy, and claimed not to know in advance of the plot to disable her. Harding then publicly took responsibility \"for failing to report things [about the planned assault] when I returned home from Nationals [on January 10]...my failure to immediately report this information is not a crime.\" Many state laws including Oregon certify that the act of concealing criminal knowledge alone is not a crime.\n\nNancy Kerrigan's attack had received a lot of publicity; news media crews had camped outside her home. The story was on the covers of \"Sports Illustrated\", \"Newsweek\", and \"TIME\" in January 1994. There was now much speculation about Harding's own alleged involvement in the assault plot. As they would be competing together again in the February Hamar Olympic Games, speculation soon reached a media frenzy. Abby Haight and J.E. Vader, journalists for \"The Oregonian\", wrote a biography of Harding called \"Fire on Ice\", which included excerpts of her January 18 FBI interview. News media began regularly attending Harding's Portland practices, and unwelcomely recorded footage of her on February 7, running barefoot to stop a tow truck from hauling her illegally parked pickup. On February 10, Connie Chung interviewed Harding. When asked about Gillooly, Harding said \"I never did anything to hurt [Jeff]. If I ever did anything, it was to stick up for him and protect him.\" Chung also negotiated to fly on the same airplane with Harding to Oslo, leaving on February 15, and interviewed her again in Norway. Chung admitted she would not have travelled to Norway were it not for the scandal. The media frenzy continued on February 17, when Nancy Kerrigan and Harding shared the ice at a practice session in the Hamar Olympic Amphitheatre. Approximately 400 members of the press were there to document this practice. Scott Hamilton believed the sport was depicted as a \"tabloid event.\" It was noted that Nancy Kerrigan chose to wear the same skating costume at the practice session that she was wearing on January 6. Kerrigan later confirmed that her choice of dress that day was deliberate: \"Humour is good, it's empowering.\" The tape-delayed broadcast of the February 23 Ladies' Olympic technical program remains one of the most watched telecasts in American history.\nOn February 5, 1994, the disciplinary panel of the U.S. Figure Skating Association stated that reasonable grounds existed to believe Harding had violated the sport's code of ethics. Her admitted failure to report information about an assault on a fellow competitor, supported by her FBI interview transcripts, resulted in Harding being formally charged with \"[making] false statements about her knowledge.\" The panel also recommended that she face a disciplinary hearing. Claire Ferguson, president of the USFSA, decided not to suspend Harding's membership before any hearing took place. If Harding had been suspended, she likely still would have competed at the Winter Olympics after filing an injunction on the USFSA and asserting her rights under the Amateur Sports Act of 1978. Evidence examined by the panel included the testimonies of Stant and Smith, Harding and Gillooly's telephone records, and notes found in a Portland saloon trash receptacle on January 30. Harding was given 30 days to respond. On March 9, Judge Owen Panner granted her a requested halt on the 30-day deadline to delay her disciplinary hearing until June 27. Meanwhile, Portland authorities stated the criminal investigation would conclude by March 21 with any indictments and a grand jury report to be made at that time.\n\nOn March 16, 1994, Harding pleaded guilty to conspiracy to hinder prosecution as a Class C felony offense at a Multnomah County court hearing. She and her lawyer, Robert Weaver, negotiated a plea bargain ensuring no further prosecution. Judge Donald Londer conducted routine questioning to make certain Harding understood her agreement, that she was entering her plea \"knowingly and voluntarily.\" Harding told Londer she was. Her plea admissions were knowing of the assault plot after the fact, settling on a cover story with Gillooly and Eckardt on January 10, witnessing payphone calls to Smith affirming the story on January 10 and 11, and lying to FBI with the story on January 18. Law enforcement investigators had been following and videotaping the co-conspirators since January 10; they knew about the payphone calls. Her penalties included 3 years of probation, $100,000 fine, and 500 hours community service. She agreed to reimburse Multnomah County $10,000 in legal expenses, undergo a psychiatric examination, and volunteered to give $50,000 to the Special Olympics Oregon (SOOR) charity. Oregon sentencing guidelines carried a max penalty of 5-years-prison for the offense. Phil Knight, CEO of Nike, donated $25,000 toward Harding's legal fees. She had also made approximately $600,000 from an \"Inside Edition\" deal. Harding's plea conditions imposed her U.S. Figure Skating Assn resignation, necessitating her withdrawal from the World Championships (for which she was scheduled to leave tomorrow). District attorney Norman Frink stated that if Harding had not agreed to the plea, \"we would have proceeded with an indictment on all possible charges...punishment was taking away [skating] privilege.\" Weaver said the plea agreement was satisfactory to Harding, partly because she avoided prison. Regarding trial concerns, he stated \"we would have prevailed at trial.\" An executive of the USFSA commented \"[We] don't know if Tonya is innocent or guilty...if [she was involved before] the national championship.\" On March 18, Claire Ferguson decided Harding's disciplinary hearing would still proceed in June. The USFSA's executive committee convened to discuss their position should Harding seek reinstatement and whether they might strip her of the 1994 National Championship title. Neither issue was decided at that time.\n\nOn March 21, 1994, a Portland grand jury issued an indictment stating there was evidence Harding participated in the attack plot. The indictment concluded more than two months of investigation and witness testimonies from Diane Rawlinson, Erika Bakacs (Harding's choreographer), Eckardt's college instructor and classmates, and Vera Marano (a freelance figure skating writer in Philadelphia). It stated there was evidence Harding fraudulently used USFSA provided skating monies to finance the assault. It also read that Harding, Gillooly, Eckardt, Smith, and Stant agreed to \"knowingly cause physical injury...by means of a dangerous weapon.\" The grand jury foreman said the evidence inferred Harding as \"involved from the beginning or very close.\" She was not charged in the indictment due to the terms of her March 16 plea agreement. On June 29, the USFSA disciplinary panel met for nine hours over two days to consider Harding's alleged role in the attack. On June 30, chairman William Hybl stated \"By a preponderance of the evidence, the panel did conclude that she had prior knowledge and was involved prior to the incident. This is based on civil standards, not criminal standards...bank records, phone records – the way they came together to establish a case.\" The panel decided that pertinent FBI reports, court documents, and Harding's March 16 plea agreement presented \"a clear disregard for fairness, good sportsmanship, and ethical behaviour.\" Harding chose neither to attend nor participate in the two-day hearing. Robert Weaver said the decision disappointed her but was not a surprise, and that she had not decided on an appeal. Harding was stripped of the 1994 U.S. Championship title and banned for life from participating in USFSA events as either skater or coach. The USFSA has no dominion over professional skating events, yet Harding was also \"persona non grata\" on the pro circuit, few skaters and promoters would work with her. She did not benefit from the ensuing boom in professional skating after the scandal.\n\nShortly before the 1998 Winter Olympics, the CBS and Fox news divisions re-examined the scandal for two televised special reports. Harry Smith hosted the CBS special. He reported that Harding still held to her statement from her press-conference given on January 27, 1994: \"I had no prior knowledge of the planned assault on Nancy Kerrigan.\" Smith then interviewed Kerrigan, asking how she responded to that statement. Nancy Kerrigan referred to transcripts she had read from Harding's FBI interview on January 18, 1994. After reading through the interrogation of that day, she concluded that \"[Tonya] knew more than she admits.\" The Fox special report was called \"Breaking the Ice: The Women of '94 Revisited\", hosted by James Brown with interviews from Harding, Gillooly, and Kerrigan. Jeff Gillooly (granted a name change to Jeff Stone in 1995) said Harding's prison evasion did not anger him, and that he felt his own punishment was just. Stone reflected on Harding's position of \"limited involvement\" in Kerrigan's attack and speculated that a \"guilty conscience\" still troubled her. Brown then mediated a joint interview with both Kerrigan and Harding present. The two former competitors shared sincere desires for happy families and general well-wishes toward one other. Nancy Kerrigan said she hoped Harding could learn from past mistakes and \"find happiness.\" Harding said she was grateful to personally express remorse to Kerrigan again.\n\nIn Harding's 2008 biography, \"The Tonya Tapes\" (transcribed by Lynda D. Prouse from recorded interviews), she stated that she wanted to call the FBI in 1994 to reveal what she knew, but decided not to when Gillooly allegedly threatened her with death following a gunpoint gang rape by him and two other men she did not know. Jeff (Gillooly) Stone responded with surprise that groundless claims against him could be published and specifically contended her gang rape accusation to be \"utterly ridiculous.\" In 2013, \"Deadspin\" sought Jeff Stone for an interview and he again defended himself from the gunpoint gang rape allegation. Yet he expressed regret that Harding is often \"remembered for what I talked her into doing,\" meaning allegedly plotting to injure Nancy Kerrigan. Stone admitted that his past stupidity was part of Harding's 1994 ruin and maintained that he still considered her a great figure skater. He also said \"I've had it easy, compared to poor Tonya...she tends to be the butt of the joke. It's kind of sad to me.\"\n\nIn 2014, Nancy Kerrigan addressed the scandal during a brief interview with sportscaster Bob Costas: \"Whatever apology Tonya has given, I accept it. It's time for all us – I've always wished [Tonya] well – she has her own family, I have my family. It's time to make that our focus and move on with our lives.\"\n\nOn February 15, 1994, an explicit 1991 videotape clip of Harding topless was shown on \"A Current Affair\"; three still frames from this clip were also published in \"The Sun\" (a British tabloid newspaper). The \"New York Post\" reported that Jeff Gillooly had supplied the videotaped fragment for an undisclosed sum of money. On July 26, 1994, \"Penthouse\" magazine announced that its September issue would feature different stills of Harding and Gillooly having sex from the same extended videotape. This 35-minute sex tape would also be copied and marketed exclusively by \"Penthouse\". Both Gillooly and Harding used the same agent to negotiate equal payment on the \"Penthouse\" sale.\n\nOn June 22, 1994, in Portland, Oregon, Harding appeared on an AAA professional wrestling show as the manager for wrestling stable Los Gringos Locos. The night's performance included Art Barr and Eddie Guerrero. A promotional musical event was unsuccessful when Harding and her band, the Golden Blades, were booed off the stage at their only performance, in 1995 in Portland, Oregon.\n\nIn 1994, Harding was cast in a low-budget action film, \"Breakaway\". The film was released in 1996. On October 29, 1996, Harding received media attention after using mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to help revive an 81-year-old woman, Alice Olson, who collapsed at a bar in Portland while playing video poker.\n\nHarding has also appeared on television, on the game show \"The Weakest Link\": \"15 Minutes of Fame Edition\" in 2002 along with Kato Kaelin,\nand in March 2008 became a commentator for TruTV's \"\".\n\nIn 2002, Harding boxed against Paula Jones on the Fox TV network \"Celebrity Boxing\" event, winning the fight. On February 22, 2003, she made her official women's professional boxing debut, losing a four-round split decision against Samantha Browning on the undercard of Mike Tyson vs. Clifford Etienne. Harding's boxing career came about amid rumors that she was having financial difficulties and needed to fight in the ring to earn money. She did another celebrity boxing match, on \"The Man Show\", and won against co-host Doug Stanhope. Stanhope later claimed on his podcast that the fight was fixed because Tonya Harding refused to \"fight a man.\"\n\nOn March 23, 2004, it was reported that she canceled a planned boxing match against Tracy Carlton in Oakland, California, because of an alleged death threat against her.\n\nOn June 24, 2004, after reportedly not having boxed for over a year, she was beaten in a match in Edmonton, Alberta, by Amy Johnson. Fans reportedly booed her as she entered the ring and cheered wildly for Johnson when she won in the third round.\n\nHer boxing career was cut short by a physical condition she attributed to asthma. Her overall record was 3 wins and 3 losses.\n\nOn August 12, 2009, Harding set a new land speed record for a vintage gas coupe with a speed of driving a 1931 Ford Model A, named \"Lickity-Split,\" on the Bonneville Salt Flats. Her setting of that land speed record was featured on an episode of \"TruTV Presents: World's Dumbest...\" that focused on \"Record Breakers.\"\n\nIn April 2018, Harding was announced as one of the celebrities who would compete on season 26 of \"Dancing with the Stars.\" She was partnered with professional dancer Sasha Farber. The couple reached the finals of the competition, where Harding finished in third place overall, behind Adam Rippon and Josh Norman.\n\nIn September 1986, Harding began a relationship with 17-year-old Jeff Gillooly; they moved into a starter home together in 1988 when he worked in distribution at the Oregon Liquor Control Commission. They married on March 18, 1990, when she was 19 and he was 22. In January 1992, Harding told Terry Richard (a journalist for \"The Oregonian\") \"Jeff always put food on the table and a roof over my head. He paid for my skating for a couple of years. If it hadn't been for him during that time, I wouldn't have been skating.\" On August 28, 1993, they were divorced after a tumultuous marriage. During the autumn of 1993, it was reported that Gillooly was working part-time managing Harding's career and taking real estate classes. Harding and Gillooly had been continuing to see each other since early October 1993 and were sharing a rented chalet together in Beavercreek, Oregon until the evening of January 18, 1994.\n\nShe married her second husband, Michael Smith, in 1995; they divorced in 1996. She married and took the surname of 42-year-old Joseph Price, whom she met at a local restaurant called Timbers, on June 23, 2010 when she was 39 years old. She gave birth to her only child, a son named Gordon, on February 19, 2011.\n\nSince leaving skating and boxing, Harding has worked as a welder, a painter at a metal fabrication company, and a hardware sales clerk at Sears. As of 2017, she stated that she worked as a painter and deck builder. She resides in Washington state, north of her hometown of Portland, Oregon.\n\nOn an appearance on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" on February 26, 2018, Harding stated that she is still active in skating and practices three times a week. In a segment during the show, she performed several jumps and spins. She trains with her former coach, Dody Teachman.\n\nHarding still receives criticism. However, her life, career, and role in the Kerrigan attack have been widely referenced in popular culture; appearing in television, film, music, as well as a primary campaign speech by former President Barack Obama. In 2014, Matt Harkins and Viviana Olen created the Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding Museum in their Brooklyn, New York, apartment, dedicated to collecting and archiving memorabilia related to Harding and the incident. Harkins and Olen stated in a 2017 interview that they had been captivated by Harding's life for years, citing it as \"the most American story ever told.\" A contemporaneous article published in \"Vogue\" also noted that Harding had developed a \"cult following\" in the years since her notoriety.\n\n\nBecause Harding admitted to obstructing the investigation of Nancy Kerrigan's assault, her name is often first associated with the 1994 scandal. However, numerous academic essays have theorized additional reasons, particularly considering her national class culture and past figure skating membership, for Harding's perceived social stigmatization.\n\nIn 1995, the book \"Women on Ice: Feminist Essays on the Tonya Harding/Nancy Kerrigan Spectacle\" was published, containing numerous essays analyzing Harding's public image. For example, Abigail Feder-Kane wrote that there existed \"overdetermined femininity in Ladies' Figure Skating...femininity and athleticism are mutually exclusive concepts in American culture.\" Sam Stoloff believed that, during the scandal, the media placed a greater emphasis on Harding's class rather than her gender (femininity). He noted how she was subjected to a \"litany of vaguely pejorative or mocking expressions\" associated with \"low class\" cultural attributes, sometimes due to Harding's personal interests and hobbies. Stoloff theorized that Harding represented an American social class that required interpretation (\"the class Other\") as he referenced the anthropological tone of Susan Orlean's 1994 essay \"Figures in a Mall,\" written for \"The New Yorker\".\n\nIn academic Sarah Marshall's 2014 essay entitled \"Remote Control: Tonya Harding, Nancy Kerrigan, and the Spectacles of Female Power and Pain,\" she noted the pervasive role of the media in the 1994 scandal, particularly the manner in which Harding's life outside the realm of skating became publicly scrutinized: \"Somehow, in the scandal's aftermath, the form of the Tonya-bash was able to alchemize even the most chilling details of Tonya's life into tabloid gold.\" Marshall also examined the role of Harding's \"tomboy\" persona in the context of figure skating. She theorized that Harding was rejected by the figure skating ethos because she did not conform – as Marshall believed many figure skaters including Nancy Kerrigan did – to appearing as \"beautiful without being sexual, strong without being intimidating, and vulnerable without being weak.\"\n\nIn Tyler Chase Knowles' 2016 honors thesis entitled \"Taking Out the Trash: Middle Class Anxieties and The White Trash Menace,\" he extrapolated on a quotation made by Emma Gray in her 2014 \"HuffPost\" article. The quotation explored how Gray believed Harding was labelled \"the skating world's perfect villain\" due to her appearance, broken home, and impoverished background. Knowles theorized that there also existed the socio-cultural personified \"Defender\" who also chose to reject Harding. He defined the \"Defender\" as a person or persons who sympathize(s) with the working poor, a group including the white underclass. The \"Defender\" would blame the plight of the poor on societal and economic factors, yet the \"Defender\" would continue to reinforce conventional values such as distinguishing the class border. Knowles argued that Harding did not belong in the \"Defender's\" approved category of \"poor white\" because she did not – in the opinion of the \"Defender\" – make enough effort, given her figure skating membership, to assimilate towards elite culture. The \"Defender\" wanted Tonya Harding to use her USFSA membership for social mobility, caring little whether she could prove herself to be among the best Olympic competitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1512284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1512284", "title": "Transcortical sensory aphasia", "text": "Transcortical sensory aphasia\n\nTranscortical sensory aphasia (TSA) is a kind of aphasia that involves damage to specific areas of the temporal lobe of the brain, resulting in symptoms such as poor auditory comprehension, relatively intact repetition, and fluent speech with semantic paraphasias present. TSA is a fluent aphasia similar to Wernicke's aphasia (receptive aphasia), with the exception of a strong ability to repeat words and phrases. The person may repeat questions rather than answer them (\"echolalia\").\n\nIn all of these ways, TSA is very similar to a more commonly known language disorder, receptive aphasia. However, transcortical sensory aphasia differs from receptive aphasia in that patients still have intact repetition and exhibit echolalia, or the compulsive repetition of words. Transcortical sensory aphasia cannot be diagnosed through brain imaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), as the results are often difficult to interpret. Therefore, clinicians rely on language assessments and observations to determine if a patient presents with the characteristics of TSA. Patients diagnosed with TSA have shown partial recovery of speech and comprehension after beginning speech therapy. Speech therapy methods for patients with any subtype of aphasia are based on the principles of learning and neuroplasticity. Clinical research on TSA is limited because it occurs so infrequently in patients with aphasia that it is very difficult to perform systematic studies.\n\nTSA should not be confused with transcortical motor aphasia (TMA), which is characterized by nonfluent speech output, with good comprehension and repetition. Patients with TMA have impaired writing skills, difficulty speaking and difficulty maintaining a clear thought process. Furthermore, TMA is caused by lesions in cortical motor areas of the brain as well as lesions in the anterior portion of the basal ganglia, and can be seen in patients with expressive aphasia.\n\nTranscortical sensory aphasia is caused by lesions in the inferior left temporal lobe of the brain located near Wernicke's area, and is usually due to minor hemorrhage or contusion in the temporal lobe, or infarcts of the left posterior cerebral artery (PCA). One function of the arcuate fasciculus is the connection between Wernicke’s and Broca’s area. In TSA Wernicke’s and Broca’s areas are spared, meaning that lesions do not occur in these regions of the brain. However, since the arcuate fasciculus, Wernicke's area, and Broca's area are secluded from the rest of the brain in TSA, patients still have intact repetition (as information from the arcuate fasciculus is relayed to Broca’s area), but cannot attach meaning to words, either spoken or heard.\n\nTranscortical sensory aphasia is characterized as a fluent aphasia. Fluency is determined by direct qualitative observation of the patient’s speech to determine the length of spoken phrases, and is usually characterized by a normal or rapid rate; normal phrase length, rhythm, melody, and articulatory agility; and normal or paragrammatic speech. Transcortical sensory aphasia is a disorder in which there is a discrepancy between phonological processing, which remains intact, and lexical-semantic processing, which is impaired. Therefore, patients can repeat complicated phrases, however they lack comprehension and propositional speech. This disconnect occurs since Wernicke’s area is not damaged in patients with TSA, therefore repetition is spared while comprehension is affected. Patients with intact repetition can repeat both simple and complex phrases spoken by others, e.g. when asked if the patient would like to go for a walk, he or she would respond \"go for walk.\" Although patients can respond appropriately, due to the extent of their TSA, it is most likely that they do not comprehend what others ask them. In addition to problems in comprehension, transcortical sensory aphasia is further characterized based on deficits in naming and paraphasia.\n\nImpaired verbal comprehension can be the result a number of causes such as failure of speech sound discrimination, word recognition, auditory working memory, or syntactic structure building. When clinically examined, patients with TSA will exhibit poor comprehension of verbal commands. Based on the extent of the comprehension deficiency, patients will have difficulty following simple commands, e.g. “close your eyes.” Depending on the extent of affected brain area, patients are able to follow simple commands but may not be able to comprehend more difficult, multistep commands, e.g. “point to the ceiling, then touch your left ear with your right hand.\" Verbal commands as such, that require the patient to cross over the midline of their body are typically more taxing than commands that involve solely the right or left side. When increasing the complexity of verbal commands comprehension is often tested by varying the grammatical structure of the command to determine whether or not the patient understands different grammatical variations of the same sentence. Commands involving the passive voice or possessive, e.g. \"If the snake killed the mouse, which one is still alive,\" usually result in comprehension problems in those who can understand simple questions.\n\nNaming involves the ability to recall an object. Patients with TSA, as well as patients with all other aphasia subtypes, exhibit poor naming. Clinical assessment of naming involves the observer first asking the patient to name high frequency objects such as clock, door, and chair. TSA patients who name common objects with ease generally have difficulty naming both uncommon objects and specific parts of objects such as lapel, or the dial on a watch.\n\nPatients with TSA typically exhibit paraphasia; their speech is fluent but often error-prone. Their speech is often unintelligible as they tend to use the wrong words, e.g. tree instead of train or uses words in senseless and incorrect combinations.\n\nSensory aphasia is typically diagnosed by non-invasive evaluations. Neurologists, neuropsychologists or speech pathologists will administer oral evaluations to determine the extent of a patient’s comprehension and speech capability. Initial assessment will determine if the cause of linguistic deficiency is aphasia. If the diagnosis is then confirmed, testing will next address the type of aphasia and its severity. The Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination specializes in determining the severity of a sensory aphasia through the observation of conversational behaviors. Several modalities of perception and response are observed in conjunction with the subject’s ability to process sensory information. The location of the brain lesion and type of the aphasia can then be inferred from the observed symptoms. The Minnesota Test for Differential Diagnosis is the most lengthy and thorough assessment of sensory aphasia. It pinpoints weaknesses in the auditory and visual senses, as well as reading comprehension. From this differential diagnosis, a patient’s course of treatment can be determined. After treatment planning, the Porch Index of Communicative Ability is used to evaluate prognosis and the degree of recovery.\n\nSensory aphasia cannot be diagnosed through the use of imaging techniques. Differences in cognition between asymptomatic subjects and affected patients can be observed via functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, these results only reveal temporal differences in cognition between control and diagnosed subjects. The degree of progression during therapy can also be surveyed through cognition tests monitored by fMRI. Many patients’ progress is assessed over time via repeated testing and corresponding cerebral imaging by fMRI.\n\nDue to advances in modern neuroimaging, scientists have been able to gain a better understanding of how language is learned and comprehended. Based on the new data from the world of neuroscience, improvements can be made in coping with the disorder.\n\nTherapists have been developing multiple methods of improving speech and comprehension. These techniques utilize three general principles: maximizing therapy occurrences, ensuring behavioral and communicative relevance, and allowing patients to focus on the language tools that are still available in his or her repertoire.\n\nMany of the following treatment techniques are used to improve auditory comprehension in patients with aphasia:\n\nA relatively new method of language therapy involves coincidence learning. Coincidence learning focuses on the simultaneous learning of two or more events and stipulates that these events are wired together in the brain, strengthening the learning process. Therapists use coincidence learning to find and improve language correlations or coincidences that have been either damaged or deleted by severe cases of aphasia, such as transcortical sensory aphasia. This technique is important in brain function and recovery, as it strengthens associated brain areas that remain unaffected after brian damage. It can be achieved with intensive therapy hours in order to maximize time where correlation is emphasized.\n\nThrough careful analysis of neuroimaging studies, a correlation has been developed with motor function and the understanding of action verbs. For example, leg and motor areas were seen to be activated words such as \"kick\", leading scientists to understand the connection between motor and language processes in the brain. This is yet another example of using relationships that are related in the brain for the purpose of rehabilitating speech and comprehension.\n\nOf huge importance in aphasia therapy is the need to start practicing as soon as possible. Greater recovery occurs when a patient attempts to improve their comprehension and speaking soon after aphasia occurs. There is an inverse relationship between the length of time spent not practicing and level of recovery. The patient should be pushed to their limits of verbal communication in order for them to practice and build upon their remaining language skills.\n\nOne effective therapy technique is using what are known as language games in order to encourage verbal communication. One famous example is known as \"Builder's Game\", where a 'builder' and a 'helper' must communicate in order to effectively work on a project. The helper must hand the builder the tools he or she may need, which requires effective oral communication. The builder succeeds by requesting tools from the assistant by usually using single word utterances, such as 'hammer' or 'nail'. Thus, when the helper hands the tool to the builder, the game incorporates action with language, a key therapy technique. The assistant would then hand the builder the requested tool. Success of the game occurs when the builder's requests are specific to ensure successful building.\n\nUltimately, regardless of therapy plan or method, improvement in speech does not appear overnight; it requires a significant time investment by the patient as well as a dedicated speech therapist seeking to ensure that the patient is focusing on the correct speech tasks outside of the clinic. Furthermore, the patient must collaborate with friends and family members during their free time in order to maximize the efficacy of the treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "45067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45067", "title": "Transnational Radical Party", "text": "Transnational Radical Party\n\nThe Transnational Radical Party (TRP), whose official name is Nonviolent Radical Party, Transnational and Transparty (NRPTT), is a political association of citizens, members of parliament and members of government of various national and political backgrounds who intend to adopt nonviolent means to create an effective body of international law with respect for individuals, human, civil and political rights, as well as the affirmation of democracy and political freedom in the world.\n\nThe TRP does not participate in elections, and despite being named \"party\", is a non-governmental organization (NGO), adept in building synergies among political forces aimed at achieving the goals of its congressional motions.\n\nThe TRP is the direct evolution of the Italian Radical Party (1955–89) and is separate from the once-connected Italian Radicals party (founded in 2001), has been an NGO at the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations (UN) since 1995, listed in the general consultative status' category.\n\nThe TRP often advocates the international use of Esperanto in its literature.\n\nThe TRP's forerunner, the Radical Party (PR), was established in 1955 by a left-wing splinter group from the centre-right Italian Liberal Party (PLI). In 1989 the PR was transformed into the TRP. In 1992 a majority of the Radicals formed, at the national-level in Italian politics, the Pannella List, as its most senior figure was Marco Pannella. Since 1999 the List ran in elections under the banner of Bonino List, named after Emma Bonino. In 2001 the Radicals in Italy formed the Italian Radicals (RI).\n\nIn the first European Parliament election in 1979 the PR obtained its best result ever countrywide (3.7% of the vote, resulting in the election of three MEPs, including Pannella). Following the election, the PR was involved with the Coordination of European Green and Radical Parties (CEGRP) and its unsuccessful efforts to create a single pan-European platform for green and radical politics. More importantly, since then, the party projected itself into international politics.\n\nIn 1988, after a decade during which transnational issues and values were emphasised, the PR's congress decided that the party would be transformed during 1989 into the TRP and that the latter would not present itself in elections (in order to avoid competition with the other parties and stimulate cooperation instead), while permitting \"dual membership\" with other parties. The new symbol featuring the stylised face of Mahatma Gandhi was the point of no return in the transformation of the PR into an instrument of political fight completely at disposal of issue-oriented campaigns.\n\nAll this provoked great controversy among Radicals. Some long-time members left in order to continue their own activity in other parties or retire from public life. However, also most TRP Radicals continued to be actively engaged in politics, sometimes supported by the TRP itself, sometimes seeking hospitality in traditional parties or creating entirely new electoral lists. In the 1989 European Parliament election Pannella stood as a successful candidate of the joint list between the PLI (his former party) and the Italian Republican Party, some Radicals formed the \"Anti-prohibition List on Drugs\" (1 MEP), while others joined the Rainbow Greens (2 MEPs). In the run-up of the 1992 general election the Pannella List was formed.\n\nSergio Stanzani and Emma Bonino were the first secretary and president of the party, respectively. In 1993 Bonino, who would be appointed to the European Commission in 1995, replaced Stanzani, and Pannella became president.\n\nThe TRP was soon involved in comparing the conditions of the rule of law among different democracies throughout the world. While its members and economic resources continued to come primarily from Italy, the party strengthened its activities worldwide, especially in the countries of post-communist Eastern Europe. In this respect, the TRP launched the Multilingual Telematics System, one of the first bulletin board systems in Italy to allow multiple connections at the same time with the many countries where the party had influence and membership.\n\nIn 1995, after an intense institutional work, the TRP became a non-governmental organization for the promotion of human rights' legislation and the affirmation of democracy and freedom worldwide. As such, it was granted the general consultative status at the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations (UN).\n\nAlso in 1995 Olivier Dupuis, a long-time Radical from Belgium and founding member of the TRP who had moved to Budapest, Hungary in 1988 and from there had coordinated TRP's activities in Eastern Europe, was elected secretary of the party, while Jean-François Hory, a French MEP of the Radical Party of the Left within the TRP-sponsored European Radical Alliance group, was president. In 1996 Dupuis took Pannella's seat in the European Parliament.\n\nWithin the UN, the party has carried out high-profile battles on several issues: the moratorium on the death penalty and the proposal of his complete abolition, anti-prohibition against global mafias, fair justice, freedom of scientific research and the ban on female genital mutilation. Additionally, the TRP has allowed access to UN meetings to some stateless people, including Tibetans, Uyghurs and Montagnards., and led active monitoring of the conflicts against despotic regimes, such as the case of Ukraine versus Russia, or gave voice to dissidents opposed to authoritarian regimes like Cuba and Turkey. For its proposal of a peace plan in the Chechen–Russian conflict, the party has collided with Russia and its members risked expulsion from the country.\n\nDespite its successes worldwide, the TRP and its initiaves mostly failed to find space on the local press in Italy, which has often focused merely on the internal conflicts within the Radical world. The inadequate information on Radical initiatives by the Italian media has been meticulously verified by the TRP-sponsored \"Centro d'Ascolto dell'Informazione Radiotelevisiva\" and produced several sentences featuring compensations to be paid by RAI, the Italian public broadcaster, and commercial TV as well. Some confusion came from the fact that since the 2000s, rather than highlighting its expansion abroad, the TRP has preferred to focus on the \"Case Italy\", emblematic of the decadence of a constitutional political system into a \"real democracy\", that is to say a formal democracy in which its very institutions substantially act in contrast with the constitution. According to the TRP, Italy has become a \"partycratic regime\" and, as such, has started to spread the \"plague\" of \"real democracy\" around the democratic world. That was denounced by Radicals within international organisations and though the publication of a \"yellow book\" on the \"Italian plague\".\n\nHowever, the TRP effectively suffered internal problems too. In 2003 Dupuis resigned from secretary because of serious political differences with Pannella. In 2011–14 Demba Traoré, a politician from Mali, served briefly as secretary: he left the party without officially resigning, after being returned to the government of his own country. The TRP was later provisionally run by a committee, known as the \"Senate\" (\"Senato\"), led by Pannella and composed of the party's leading members.\n\nAfter the death of Pannella in May 2016, an extraordinary congress was convened in September to overcome the long inactivity due to the absence of the secretary, as well as the economic problems undermining the party's viability. The congress adopted with 178 votes in favour, 79 against and 13 abstentions on the final resolution:\n\nThe minority faction, led by Bonino and Marco Cappato, in turn, controlled the RI, as confirmed in their November 2016 congress. In February 2017 the TRP severed its ties with the RI (accused of boycotting the TRP, using its assets without paying for them and pursuing an Italian-only electoral agenda), and the latter could no longer use the Radical headquarters. However, the RI's congress invited its members to adhere to the TRP. The 3,000-member target for 2017 was achieved by the TRP in December, while the RI had launched a pro-Europeanist electoral list named More Europe for the 2018 Italian general election.\n\n\nThe 2016 congress elected a collective Presidency, composed of the following members: Matteo Angioli, Angiolo Bandinelli, Marco Beltrandi, Rita Bernardini (coordinator), Maurizio Bolognetti, Antonella Casu (coordinator), Antonio Cerrone, Deborah Cianfanelli, Maria Antonietta Coscioni, Sergio D'Elia (coordinator), Mariano Giustino, Giuseppe Rippa, Giuseppe Rossodivita, Irene Testa, Maurizio Turco (coordinator and legal representative), Valter Vecellio, and Elisabetta Zamparutti.\n\nCurrent prominent members (as of December 2017):\n\nFormer prominent members:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27950254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27950254", "title": "Voluntariness", "text": "Voluntariness\n\nIn law and philosophy, voluntariness is a choice being made of a person's free will, as opposed to being made as the result of coercion or duress. Philosophies such as libertarianism and voluntaryism, as well as many legal systems, hold that a contract must be voluntarily agreed to by a party in order to be binding on that party. The social contract rests on the concept of the voluntary consent of the governed.\n\nThe Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure provide that \"Before accepting a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court must address the defendant personally in open court and determine that the plea is voluntary and did not result from force, threats, or promises (other than promises in a plea agreement).\" The actual voluntariness is suspect, in that it is common for prosecutors to threaten to seek more prison time unless the defendant agrees to plead guilty. For this reason, common law courts historically took a negative view of guilty pleas.\n"}
