{"id": "51926674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51926674", "title": "1988 IRA attacks in the Netherlands", "text": "1988 IRA attacks in the Netherlands\n\nThe Provisional IRA carried out two separate attacks on the same day on 1 May 1988 against British military personnel in the Netherlands which resulted in the deaths of three RAF members and another three being injured. It was the worst attack suffered by the British security forces during The Troubles from 1969 to 1998 on mainland Europe.\n\n1988 was one of the worst years of the Troubles conflict in terms of violence during the 1980s. It saw an increase in IRA activity, a new campaign of sectarian killings by loyalist paramilitaries, and a heavy response by the British Army to IRA attacks. On 6 March the SAS shot dead 3 unarmed IRA Volunteers in Gibraltar. On the 16 March at the funerals of the IRA Volunteers shot in Gibraltar a loyalist UDA member killed 3 people and injured dozens in a grenade and gun attack at Milltown cemetery. At the funeral of one of those killed in the Milltown attack two plain clothed British soldiers were cornered by an angry crowd who believed they were under attack and the IRA killed both of them. In May the UVF killed 3 Catholic civilians and injured 9 in a gun attack in a Belfast pub. On the 15 June 7 people were killed, first 6 British soldiers were killed in the Lisburn van bombing and then the IRA shot dead a UVF member. On the 7 July an IRA Volunteer and 2 civilians were killed ina premature bomb explosion. Later that month on the 23 July the IRA killed a family of 3 in a botched operation in Armagh. On 20 August the IRA killed 8 British soldiers and injured a further 28 in the Ballygawley bus bombing, this was the worst attack suffered from the British army since 1982. Ten days later on the 30 August the SAS shot dead 3 more IRA Volunteers at Drumnakilly. One day later 3 civilians were killed when somebody triggered an IRA booby-trap bomb by mistake. Twenty-nine people were killed in the month of August alone. 104 people died in 1988 compared to 61 in 1986 and 57 in 1985. It was the worst year since 1982 when 110 people died.\n\nThe IRA and other Republican paramilitaries such as the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) had been carrying out attacks against British military personnel and British diplomats on mainland Europe since the late 1970s. Some prominent attacks included:\n\n\nThe first attack took place in the market of Roermond city, a popular social centre for British military personnel in the southeastern part of the Netherlands on the West German border. Two enlisted Royal Air Force members from the RAF Regiment based at RAF Wildenrath in Germany were sitting in a parked car near their base at around 01:00 am when IRA volunteers fired shots from an automatic rifle into their car, killing one of the soldiers (SAC Ian Shinner, 20) and badly injuring his companion. Police on the scene said that at least 23 bullets were fired into the vehicle.\n\nHalf an hour later in Nieuw-Bergen, about 30 miles north of Roermond, a booby-trap bomb that was placed under the car of four other RAF soldiers exploded while they were parked outside a disco. The bombing killing two more RAF soldiers (John Miller Reid and John Baxter) and injured two others. \"The bodies were in such a condition that they could not immediately be identified,\" police spokesman Louis Steens told The Associated Press in Nieuw Bergen. The soldiers were based at RAF Laarbruch, about 3 miles away across the border in West Germany.\n\nThe IRA were able to identify the British military personnel due to the number plates on the cars. In both attacks, the cars being driven by the RAF members had British military licence plates.\n\nThe IRA issued a statement from Belfast in relation to the attacks saying: \"We have a simple message for [Prime Minister Margaret] Thatcher. Disengage from Ireland and there will be peace. If not, there will be no haven for your military personnel and you will regularly be at airports awaiting your dead.\" Both the British and Irish governments condemned the attacks.\n\nMany Irish Republicans saw the attacks as revenge for the killings of the three IRA volunteers in Gibraltar two months before (see Operation Flavius). In 1990 two Australian tourists were shot dead by the IRA in Roermond.\n\n"}
{"id": "61823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61823", "title": "Academy Award for Best Makeup and Hairstyling", "text": "Academy Award for Best Makeup and Hairstyling\n\nThe Academy Award for Best Makeup and Hairstyling is the Academy Award given to the best achievement in makeup and hairstyling for film. Usually, only three films are nominated each year rather than five as in most categories. The exception is in the early 1980s as well as 2002, when there were only two nominees; and in 1999, when there were four nominees.\n\nThe competitive category was created in 1981 as the Academy Award for Best Makeup, after the Academy received complaints that the make-up work in \"The Elephant Man\" (1980) was not going to be honored. Although no award was given to \"The Elephant Man\", an entire category dedicated to honoring make-up effects in film was created for subsequent ceremonies. Previously, make-up artists were only eligible for special achievement awards for their work.\n\nThis is one of the categories with different stages of nominating. A shortlist of titles is chosen by the makeup branch's executive committee and clips are screened by the members of the branch at an annual \"bake-off\" where nominees are determined. After only two films were shortlisted in 2002, rules were installed requiring that seven finalists be chosen each year.\n\nIn 2012, the category was given its current name for use in the 85th Academy Awards and onward. Makeup artist Rick Baker holds the record for both most wins and most nominations for this award.\n\nBefore 1981, Special Achievement Oscars were twice awarded to makeup artists for their work on a specific film:\n\n\nStarting in 1993, the award is to be shared with hairstylists if hair effects \"contribute greatly to the appearance and effect of the characters\".\n\nIn the following table, the years are listed as per Academy convention, and generally correspond to the year of film release; the ceremonies are always held the following year. Films in dark blue background have received a Special/Honorary Award; those in yellow background have won a regular Academy Award of Merit.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28184944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28184944", "title": "Allard Pierson", "text": "Allard Pierson\n\nAllard Pierson (8 April 1831 – 27 May 1896) was a Dutch theologian, historian, and art historian. He was a leading proponent of radical criticism in the Netherlands.\n\nPierson's father was a merchant in Amsterdam, his mother an author of pietist works. The family was prominent in the Christian revival movement of the and attended the meetings of Isaac da Costa and Nicolaas Beets. Pierson studied theology at Utrecht University, where he was influenced by Opzoomer. He became a Protestant minister in Leuven in 1854, and in 1857 in the Walloon church in Rotterdam, where he was highly esteemed. However, in 1865 he resigned because he could not reconcile being a minister with not believing in divine revelation. He moved to Heidelberg, where he worked on a history of Christianity. He also started to teach at the university there. From 1877 to 1895 Pierson was professor in history of art, aesthetics and modern languages at the University of Amsterdam. Pierson died in 1896 in the village Almen and he is buried in Zutphen.\n\nIn 1878 Pierson published his book about the Sermon on the Mount and other passages from the synoptic gospels. He showed that sayings attributed to Jesus could be found in Jewish wisdom literature. The work also argued that Galatians, one of the core Pauline epistles, was pseudepigraphic. This is seen as the beginning of Dutch radical school.\n\nPierson was an advocate of the Christ myth theory. He held the view that the Pauline epistles were forgeries.\n"}
{"id": "54690232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54690232", "title": "Alliance for Securing Democracy", "text": "Alliance for Securing Democracy\n\nThe Alliance for Securing Democracy (ASD) is a bipartisan transatlantic national security advocacy group formed in July 2017 with the stated aim of countering efforts by Russia to undermine democratic institutions in the United States and Europe. The organization is chaired and run primarily by former senior United States intelligence and State Department officials. Its daily operations are led by Laura Rosenberger, a former senior State Department official who worked in the George W. Bush administration and later in the Obama administration, and Jamie Fly, who also worked in the Bush administration and later as a national security counselor to Senator Marco Rubio. The ASD is housed at the German Marshall Fund of the United States and pursues its work in both the United States and Europe.\n\nThe ASD publishes a web dashboard called \"Hamilton 68\" showing the activity of Twitter accounts that the organization claims are linked to Russian propaganda.\n\nIn 2016, the CIA, FBI, NSA, and the Director of National Intelligence asserted that Russia had interfered in US elections. The Alliance for Securing Democracy declared that it will develop strategies to \"defend against, deter, and raise the costs\" on any attempts by Russia or \"other state actors\" to undermine democracy. Former acting CIA Director Michael Morell stated that the group will fulfill some of the role that ideally would have been handled by a national investigative commission.\n\nThe \"Hamilton 68\" Dashboard on the ASD website tracks in real-time 600 Twitter social media accounts that the ASD asserts are \"linked to Russian influence,\" whether knowingly or unknowingly. In September 2017, the group launched a similar German-language website focused on possible Russian influence in German politics. The ASD's tracking encompasses social media accounts it suspects are related to the Russian government or Russian state media, as well as accounts it believes to be unconnected to Russia, but which repeat what it sees as Russian government views. ASD does not disclose which accounts \"Hamilton 68\" tracks, citing its desire to \"focus on the behavior of the overall network rather than get dragged into hundreds of individual debates over which troll fits which role.\"\n\nThe then newly formed ASD said in August 2017 that it was \"exploring ways\" to similarly analyze Facebook, Reddit, and YouTube.\n\nThe ASD is governed by an Advisory Council and an operating staff who are drawn from the American Marshall Fund. \"The Washington Post\" called the membership of the advisory council \"a who's who of former senior national security officials from both [the Democratic and Republican] parties.\" Members of the advisory council include Michael Chertoff (a Republican who worked in the George W. Bush administration as U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security) and Mike McFaul (a Democrat who worked in the Obama administration as U.S. Ambassador to Russia), former Estonian president Toomas Hendrik Ilves, neoconservative political analyst and commentator William Kristol, and Hillary Clinton foreign-policy adviser Jake Sullivan.\n\nThe Hamilton 68 dashboard has been cited by many news outlets, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"NPR\", and \"Business Insider\".\n\nThe dashboard has also received criticism for its \"secret methodology\" and refusal to disclose the Twitter accounts it tracks. ASD founders Laura Rosenberger and Jamie Fly say these accounts are not disclosed so to prevent them from getting shut down.\n\nWriting in \"The Nation\", James Carden questioned the project's characterization of factual news items as Russian propaganda, concluding that the project \"seeks to police and narrow the scope of acceptable political discourse\".\n\nGlenn Greenwald criticized the group, opining that it represented a political alliance between neoconservatives and establishment Democrats. In an article in \"The Atlantic\", Peter Beinart argued that while Greenwald's fear of hawkish foreign policy was founded, it was nevertheless important to understand Russia's involvement in American politics. In a \"Politico\" article, Susan Glasser praised the group for its bipartisan approach to tracking Russian propaganda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2960263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960263", "title": "Aref al-Aref", "text": "Aref al-Aref\n\nAref al-Aref (, 1892–1973) was a Palestinian journalist, historian and politician. Aref al-Aref served as mayor of East Jerusalem in the 1950s, during the Jordanian annexation of the West Bank.\n\nAref al-Aref was born as Aref Shehadeh in Jerusalem in 1892. His father was a vegetable vendor. Excelling at his studies in primary school, he was sent to high school in Turkey. He attended the Marjan Preparatory School and Mulkiyya College in Istanbul. During his college studies, he wrote for a Turkish newspaper. Later, he worked as a translator for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He served as an officer in the Ottoman Army in World War I. He was captured on the Caucasus front and spent three years in a prisoner of war camp in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia. In Krasnoyarsk, he edited a newspaper in handwritten Arabic called \"Nakatullah\" [Camel of God] and translated Ernst Haeckel’s \"Die Weltraethsel\" (\"The Riddles of the Universe\") into Turkish. After the Russian Revolution he escaped and returned to Palestine.\n\nAref al-Aref died on July 30, 1973, in al-Bireh.\n\nBy 1919, al-Aref was involved in political activism in Palestine, agitating for unity of Palestine with Syria. In October 1919, he became editor of the recently established newspaper Suriya al-Janubiya (Southern Syria), which was the first Arab nationalist newspaper published in Jerusalem and was an organ of the al-Nadi al-'Arabi (The Arab Club). Initially Suriya al-Janubiya supported the British military authorities, but soon became an opponent of the British Mandate.\n\nAl-Aref attended the Nebi Musa religious festival in Jerusalem in 1920 riding on his horse, and gave a speech at the Jaffa Gate. The nature of his speech is disputed. According to Benny Morris, he said \"If we don't use force against the Zionists and against the Jews, we will never be rid of them\", while Bernard Wasserstein wrote \"he seems to have co-operated with the police, and there is no evidence that he actively instigated violence\". In fact, \"Zionist intelligence reports of\nthis period are unanimous in stressing that he spoke repeatedly against violence\". Soon the festival became a riot involving attacks on the local Jews. Al-Aref was arrested for incitement, but when he was let out on bail he escaped to Syria together with co-accused Haj Amin al-Husseini. In another version, he was warned and escaped before being arrested. He advised Arabs against violence, urging them instead to adopt the \"discipline, silence, and courage\" of their opponents. In his absence, a military court sentenced him to 10 years imprisonment.\n\nIn Damascus, al-Aref became a deputy to the General Syrian Congress and with Hajj Amin and others formed al-Jam'iyya al-'Arabiyya al-Filastiniyya (Palestinian Arab Society). He became its Secretary-General and campaigned against the decisions of the San Remo conference. After the French invasion of Syria in July 1920 he fled to Transjordan. He returned to Jerusalem late in 1920 after being pardoned by the new High Commissioner of Palestine, Herbert Samuel, but the government refused to allow his newspaper to reopen.\n\nIn 1921, he was appointed as a District Officer of the British administration by the Civil Secretary Colonel Wyndham Deedes. He served in that capacity in Jenin, Nablus, Beisan, and Jaffa. In 1926 he was seconded to the Government of Transjordan as Chief Secretary, where he served for three years. However he continued his political activities on the side to the displeasure of his British superior. He returned to Palestine in 1929, where he served as District Officer in Beersheba and later in Gaza. In 1933 he received a special commendation from the High Commissioner for keeping his district quiet during a time of disturbances elsewhere. In 1942 he was promoted and transferred to al-Bireh. He continued as a Mandate official until 1948.\n\nUpon Jordanian control of the West Bank, al-Aref was appointed military governor of Ramallah governorate then from 1949 to 1955 served as mayor of East Jerusalem. In 1967, he was appointed director of the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem.\n\n"}
{"id": "41987350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41987350", "title": "Battle of One Tree Hill", "text": "Battle of One Tree Hill\n\nThe Battle of One Tree Hill was the best known of a series of conflicts that took place between European settlers and aboriginal inhabitants of the Darling Downs in the 1840s. \n\nIn September 1843, aboriginal leader Multuggera led an ambush of squatters taking supplies across from Moreton Bay, at One Tree Hill (now known as Tabletop Mountain), near Toowoomba.\n\nThe squatters organised a revenge party and the aborigines retreated up the mountain. They escaped into the Lockyer Valley but were later tracked down and killed by the military.\n\nA monument recording the battle was established in 2005. An indigenous land use agreement has been signed over the site. \n\nIn 2010, the National Library of Australia acquired a sketch by local Thomas John Domville Taylor for $120,000 which is believed to be an eyewitness account of the aftermath of the battle. This made it one of less than ten visual eyewitness accounts of attacks by European settlers on indigenous people.\n"}
{"id": "37609467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37609467", "title": "Bo Gabriel Montgomery", "text": "Bo Gabriel Montgomery\n\nBo Gabriel Montgomery also known as Bo-Gabriel de Montgomery (born 21 April 1894 in Stockholm, Sweden - died 16 October 1969 in Nyköping, Södermanland, Sweden) was a political writer, social commentator and genealogist. He wrote on imperialism, labour relations and social history.\n\nBorn of Carl Oskar Cristoffer Montgomery (5 April 1856 - 28 Nov 1920) and Sigrid Sofia Maria Sandell (30 Dec 1874 - 05 Jan 1932), de Montgomery was educated at Oxford University where he obtained a doctorate in Philosophy and also studied at the University of Stockholm.\n\nHe was known for his commentary regarding the Pax Britannica in 1936 when he argued for increased trade and friendly relations between Britain and the United States. He suggested the two nations had a \"common interest in preserving the international peace\", and was a lead proponent of the Special Relationship, saying \"the two Anglo-Saxon nations are of a fundamentally peaceful disposition and prefer to live in peace\". He held the view that the British Empire was \"the principal factor in the development of humanity... It means that the British Empire is primarily responsible for the maintenance of peace in the world\".\n\nIn 1926 he invented and patented a unique razor sharpening device, characterised by the automatic rocking of the blade on the strap.\n\nHe wrote books on such topics as Economics and Political history. He also researched the genealogy of the Montgomery family, including the origins of their nobility, and based on this work he claimed the title of Comte de Montgomery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57264329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57264329", "title": "Bruna Esih", "text": "Bruna Esih\n\nBruna Esih (born 20 May 1975) is a Croatian politician, philosopher, historian and croatologist, currently serving as president of political party Independents for Croatia. She is one of the most popular conservative politicians in Croatia. She has called for lustration and decommunisation in Croatia.\n\nShe researched Bleiburg massacre and Battle of Vukovar as well as partisan crimes after World War Two in Second Yugoslavia. She is co-author of three books as a scientist on Ivo Pilar Institute in Zagreb. She was special delegate of Croatian president Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović for Bleiburg commemorations.\n\n\nShe co-operated alongside historian Josip Jurčević.\n"}
{"id": "59101793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59101793", "title": "Bukovina Museum", "text": "Bukovina Museum\n\nThe Bukovina Museum (\"\") is a museum located in the Romanian city of Suceava, named after the historical Bukovina region. \n\nThe Bukovina Museum consists of several individual museums, objects and memorial houses scattered throughout the region. They pursue their own programs and series of events, but are managed together. The headquarter is located in the History Museum (Muzeul de Istorie din Suceava), in the center of the city of Suceava. The History Museum is the oldest part of the Bukovina Museum and essentially the nucleus around which the complex with its various facilities was built. The History Museum was built in 1898 and is now a cultural heritage site.The Museum's collection includes photographs by German photographer Oliver Mark.\n\n"}
{"id": "1505107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1505107", "title": "Cabanatuan", "text": "Cabanatuan\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ; ; ; also known as Cabsy), or simply Cabanatuan City is a city in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people, making it the most populous city in Nueva Ecija and the 5th populous in Central Luzon.\n\nThe city is popular for being home to more than 30,000 tricycles, thus priding itself as the \"Tricycle Capital of the Philippines\" and its strategic location along the Cagayan Valley Road has made the city a major economic, educational, medical, entertainment shopping and transportation center in Nueva Ecija and nearby provinces in the region such as Aurora and Bulacan. It has also earned the moniker \"Gateway to the North\".\n\nCabanatuan remained as Nueva Ecija's capital until 1965 when the government created nearby Palayan City as the new provincial capital. Nueva Ecija's old capitol and other government offices are still used and maintained by the provincial administration.\n\nCabanatuan was founded as a Barrio of Gapan in 1750 and became a Municipality and capital of La Provincia de Nueva Ecija in 1780. Cabanatuan is the site of the historical \"Plaza Lucero\" and the Cabanatuan Cathedral, where General Antonio Luna was assassinated by Captain Pedro Janolino and members of the kawit battalion. Cabanatuan lost the title of provincial capital in 1850 when the capital of Nueva Ecija was moved to San Isidro, another historic town. It was only in 1917, when the Administrative code was enacted, that Cabanatuan was restored as capital of the Province. However, in 1965, Congress created Palayan City, which has been the capital ever since.\nDuring World War II, the occupying Japanese built Cabanatuan Prison Camp, where many American soldiers were imprisoned, some of whom had been forced to endure the infamous Bataan Death March. In January 1945, elements of the U.S. Army 6th Ranger Battalion marched behind enemy lines to rescue the prisoners in what became known as the Raid at Cabanatuan. As a result of the raid on January 30, 1945, victorious Filipino guerrillas and American troops of the U.S. Army 6th Ranger Battalion celebrated having obtained the freedom of 500 American POWs. Soon thereafter, Philippine and American forces re-established the presence of military general headquarters and military camp bases of the Philippine Commonwealth Army, Philippine Constabulary 2nd Constabulary Regiment, and the United States Army in Cabanatuan from February 1, 1945 to June 30, 1946 during the Allied Liberation. Before long, the combined Philippine Commonwealth and American armed forces, in cooperation with local guerrilla resistance fighters and Hukbalahap Communist guerrillas, had liberated Central Luzon from Japanese Imperial forces, a campaign that lasted from January until August 1945.\n\nIn 1957, the barrios of Mataas na Kahoy, Balangkare Norte, Balangkare Sur, Sapang Kawayan, Magasawang Sampaloc, Talabutab Norte, Talabutab Sur, Platero, Belen, Pecaleon, Piñahan, Kabulihan, Pasong-Hari, Balaring, Pulong Singkamas, Panaksak, Bravo, Sapang Bato, Burol, Miller, Tila Patio, Pula, Carinay, and Acacia were separated from Cabanatuan and constituted into a separate and independent municipality known as General Mamerto Natividad.\n\nCabanatuan was the epicenter of a very strong earthquake at roughly 3 P.M. on July 16, 1990. It leveled some buildings, including the Christian College of the Philippines (Liwag Colleges) in the midst of class time. At 7.8 on the surface wave magnitude scale, it killed 1,653 people.\n\nCabanatuan became a city by virtue of Republic Act No. 526, approved on June 16, 1950. In 1998, Cabanatuan was declared by then-president Fidel V. Ramos as a highly urbanized city however it failed ratification after the majority of votes in the plebiscite was negative.\n\nCabanatuan was declared as highly urbanized city by President Benigno S. Aquino III under Presidential Proclamation No. 418 on July 14, 2012. A plebiscite scheduled on December 2012 was moved by the Commission on Elections to January 25, 2014 so as not to burden the poll body during its preparation for the 2013 local elections in the province. Incumbent Governor Aurelio Matias Umali, who had a strong voter base in the city, opposed the conversion and submitted a petition to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court issued a temporary restraining order on January 24, 2014. On April 23, 2014, voting 9-5-1, the Supreme Court granted a petition for certiorari filed by Nueva Ecija Gov. Aurelio Umali and declared as null and void Comelec Minute Resolution No. 12-0797 dated September 11, 2012 and Minute Resolution No. 12-0925 dated October 16, 2012 setting a date for the conduct of a plebiscite in which only registered voters of Cabanatuan would be allowed to vote. The province-wide plebiscite was rescheduled for November 8, 2014, but cancelled again because the Cabanatuan City government couldn't provide the funds needed for the plebiscite. No new date has been set until city government certifies that 101 million is available for the holding of the plebiscite.\n\nCabanatuan City is located in the rolling central plains of Luzon drained by the Pampanga River. The city is seated southwest of the provincial capital Palayan City and north of Manila. The geographic coordinates of Cabanatuan City are 15° 29' 22\" N, 120° 58' 14\" E.\n\nCabanatuan has a tropical wet and dry climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Aw\"), with year-round warm weather and distinct dry and wet seasons. It is touted as one of the hottest cities in the country; in the summer season of 2011 Cabanatuan reached its hottest temperature at 39.8 °C, also the hottest in the Philippines in that same year, and on June 4, 2015 PAGASA reported a heat index for the city, which is the hottest yet recorded.\n\nCabanatuan City is administratively subdivided into 89 barangays.\n\nRoman Catholicism has been the predominant religion in the city, being host to a major cathedral - the St. Nicholas of Tolentine Cathedral which serves as the seat of the bishop of the Diocese of Cabanatuan. There are three major Catholic structures located within the city, these are the Mother of Perpetual Help Parish, the Carmelite Sisters Convent and the Maria Assumpta Seminary. Local chapels/parishes are also present in most barangays.\n\nIglesia ni Cristo also maintains a sizable presence in Cabanatuan with its large house of worship in Brgy. Zulueta with a 5,000 persons seating inside. Jesus Miracle Crusade International Ministry (acronym as JMCIM) is an Apostolic Pentecostal religious group in the Philippines which believes particularly in the promotion of miracles and faith in God for healing. Jesus is Lord Church (JIL Church) is located at circumferential road.\n\nThe United Methodist Church also has many local churches with large number of congregations within the city. The United Methodist Church owns the Wesleyan University Philippines and the WUP-CMC Hospital.\n\nOther Christian denominations also exist.\n\nThe Islamic faith also has a presence in Cabanatuan, specifically within the districts of Imelda and Isla. Two large mosques exist in the city, with the largest located at Imelda District.\n\nCabanatuan is the economic heart of Nueva Ecija. More than 640,000 people live in its metropolitan area comprising the city and its adjacent municipalities. As a hub, many people in Nueva Ecija commute to the city during the day. This causes the city's daytime population to swell to about a million. Although Cabanatuan does not have significant manufacturing industries, its dynamic service sector together with the thriving agriculture drives the economy forward.\n\nThe city is a vital financial center housing a good number of banks, non-bank financial institutions and headquarters of some of the largest rural banks in Central Luzon. The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) maintains a branch in the city that performs cash operations and cash administration. Approximately 43 billion pesos in deposit liabilities is kept in the city's 65 banks as of June 2018. This amount constitutes more than half of the province's deposits. In terms of banking convenience, the city ranks as one of the most livable in the country together with Makati City.\n\nCabanatuan Electric Corporation (CELCOR) distributes electricity to the city. Power generation companies like FCVC and FCRV operate a ) 12-8 MW diesel power plant ana ) 10-MW solar power plant, respectively.\n\nGlobe Telecom, Smart Communications and Sun Cellular also have their business offices located in the city. The Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT) have their business office at General Tinio St., while Digitel is in Mabini Extension. TV and Radio Stations are also present in the city.\n\nThe motor vehicle industry is a notable part of the city economy. Popular global automotive companies has established dealerships in the city's metropolitan area. Existing car/truck dealerships include Toyota (Toyota Cabanatuan Inc. being the 604th largest Philippine corporation), Mitsubishi, Kia, Isuzu, Mazda, Ford, Nissan, Peugeot, Hyundai, Suzuki, and Mahindra, all in Cabanatuan; Foton and Honda in Santa Rosa town; Chevrolet and Hino in San Leonardo town. Motorcycle dealerships are common like in most Philippine mid-sized cities.\n\nThe city is also a distribution and logistics center for goods and commodities; a number of distribution warehouses and sales offices of various companies serve the whole of Nueva Ecija and parts of neighboring provinces. The NFA warehouses in the city play an important role in regulating Nueva Ecija's burgeoning rice industry. The city acts as a trading place or \"bagsakan\" of agricultural produce from the surrounding farming communities.\n\nIndicators reflect Cabanatuan's economic achievements in the past few years. Annual business registrations in the city grew 31.7% last 2015 while locally sourced taxes grew 14.81% annually in the five years to 2015. Residential buildings and subdivisions, numbering more than a hundred, are taking up lands on the fringes of the downtown.\n\nThe presence of big land developers such as Sta. Lucia Realty, Vista Land and Ayala Land ensures competition and quality in the new suburban homes. New commercial buildings are springing up in the CBD and along Maharlika Highway on the average of seventy-five per year.\n\nCabanatuan nowadays is gradually becoming a major investment hub and is considered as one of the most competitive cities for doing business in the country. Investors in banking, real estate, retail and other business and industrial enterprises are similarly drawn to the city because of its adequate infrastructure and investor support services. Its continuing urbanization is also luring investors into its suburban municipalities as well.\n\nTo further explore its economic potentials, Cabanatuan is seeking to have a share of the IT-BPO boom. The first call center in Nueva Ecija was successfully established in the city in 2008. The city government is providing prospective investors fast business applications processing, low business taxes, and other incentives to attract big-ticket projects.\n\nIn 2015, the city's total assets amounted to PHP 3.719 billion and the total income reached PHP 1.696 billion.\n\nMany Novo Ecijanos choose to resettle in Cabanatuan for proximity to job and other necessities. With the influx of people, residential developments followed and now more than a hundred subdivisions for A to D markets decimate the city.\n\nLarge-scale residential developments are present, such as Lakewood City and Avida Sta. Arcadia Estates. Sta. Lucia Realty's Lakewood City is a medium to high-end project encompassing more than 170 hectares. Its centerpiece is a 64-hectare championship golf course, one of the largest in Central Luzon.\nAyala Land's 87-hectare Avida Sta. Arcadia Estates is master planned to become a mixed-use development that will include the Avida Sta. Arcadia Residences, Avida Settings, and Avida Town Center.\n\nAlso included in the roster of large residential districts are the Kapitan Pepe Subdivision, Grand Victoria Estates, and Acropolis North by Sta. Lucia Realty.\n\nAyala Land currently has five residential subdivisions while Vista Land has three and Sta. Lucia Realty, three.\n\nRecently, there is active development of residential subdivisions in Sta. Arcadia, Bangad and the stretch of NE-Aurora Road.\n\nPrime lands in Cabanatuan are becoming pricier as demand for residential land props up with the entry of more Manila- and Cebu-based land developers.\n\nEstablished players are being challenged by newcomers like Robinsons Land, SMDC, Filinvest and AboitizLand. SMDC's first horizontal housing development is currently under construction on a 25-hectare lot in Brgy. Sta. Arcadia.\n\nThe shopping centers of Cabanatuan draw a lot of people from the province and nearby places. The downtown has three out of the six established malls: NE Mall, Waltermart and SM Megacenter. A fourth downtown mall will soon be built by Robinsons Land. Another cluster of shopping malls can be found along Maharlika Highway south of the city center: NE Pacific Mall; Robinsons Townville, which is connected to NE Pacific Mall; and SM City Cabanatuan, the largest mall north of Metro Manila by gross floor area (154,020 sqm).\n\nSM City Cabanatuan is built as a regional SM supermall. It features a garden park, a roof park, and the first ever SM Large Screen Cinema in the country.\n\nOther shopping centers include Savemore supermarkets, Puregold, a chain of NE supermarkets, and many small department stores.\n\nThe warehouse club store S&R opened recently, forming a sprawling shopping district with NE Pacific Mall and Robinsons Townville.\n\nVista Mall, CityMall and Robinsons Place are the upcoming malls in the city.\n\nTo date, there are 35 prominent hotels/motels/apartelles/inns, numerous resorts, and restaurants / fast-food outlets/nightclubs/disco houses.\n\nThe city is a major hub of transportation services in Central Luzon. Cabanatuan City has a large number of bus companies operating provincial and regional routes, with the Cabanatuan Central Transport Terminal serving as the terminus. Jeepney operators serve routes within the province with some reaching as far to Dingalan, Baler and Dilasag in Aurora, Olongapo City, San Fernando and Dau in Pampanga, Mariveles and Balanga in Bataan, Baguio City in Benguet, Dagupan City and Tarlac City. Much of the city's population rely on public transportation such as tricycles and jeeps to get around the city.\n\nMaharlika Highway (or Pan-Philippine Highway) is the main highway traversing the city where most vehicles going to Cagayan Valley pass through. Nueva Ecija - Aurora Road links Cabanatuan to Baler, Aurora, passing through rural towns in eastern Nueva Ecija. Burgos Avenue and Del Pilar Street serve as the city's main thoroughfare inside the downtown area. Other major roads include the General Tinio and Rizal Streets which run through the city proper in an east-west direction; Mabini Street, where two of the city's three universities are situated and the Circumferential Road that connects the downtown area to the Kapitan Pepe residential district. Two bypass roads were constructed during the early 2000s to decongest the Maharlika Highway and to spur new developments outside the downtown area. The 10.3-kilometer Felipe Vergara Highway provides a direct route to Cagayan Valley, while Emilio Vergara Highway links Santa Rosa to Nueva Ecija - Aurora Road, avoiding traffic bottleneck along Maharlika Highway.\n\nCabanatuan was served by the Manila Railroad Company way back in 1905 through the Balagtas - Cabanatuan line and was later abandoned after the war when scavengers have looted pieces of the rail tracks. Rail service was later resumed in 1969 after the rehabilitation of the rail tracks as mandated by a government order, the service was again abandoned in the 1980s when the route didn't fare much to the commuters. The old Cabanatuan Railway Station is located at Barangay General Luna and is converted to a day care center with the original structure remaining.\n\nInfrastructure improvements are ongoing with projects done by administration. All key intersections in the city are already signalized. Bicycle and tricycle lanes are currently being built while road widening of the Maharlika Highway from the present four lanes to eight lanes is on the drawing board. Road widening of all city and arterial roads from one/two-lane highway to three-lane highway is also being considered.\n\nTwo proposed expressways will pass through Cabanatuan City if built. These are the North Luzon East Expressway (Quezon City to Cabanatuan) and the Central Luzon Link Expressway (SCTEx-TPLEx to San Jose City).\n\nIntercity/interprovincial buses from Manila serve the city, and are usually operated by Baliwag Transit, Inc., Five Star, Victory Liner, Genesis Transport Service Inc., GV Florida Transport, and Pangasinan Solid North. Jeepneys provide\n\nHistorical sites found in the city include:\n\nFestivals and celebrations:\n\nCity Tourist Spot:\n\nCabanatuan City is a highly urbanized city and is politically independent from the Province of Nueva Ecija. Registered voters of the city no longer vote for provincial candidates such as the Governor and Vice Governor unlike its nearby towns that make up the provinces as a result of its charter as a city in the 1950s.\n\nCabanatuan City's seat of government, the city hall, is located at Barangay San Josef Sur. The local government structure is composed of one mayor, one vice mayor and ten councilors. Each official is elected publicly to a 3-year term and can be re-elected up to 3 terms in succession. The day-to-day administration of the city is handled by the city administrator.\n\nCabanatuan is the one of the region's educational center being home to more than 40 higher education institutions, 1 science high school, more than 50 public and private high schools, and more than 100 public and private primary schools. Most of the students of the province go to Cabanatuan to study and build their career in the city.\n\nSchools, Universities and Colleges:\nCatholic seminary:\n\nMany hospitals and clinics can be found in the city, most are private and with modern facilities which made Cabanatuan City the center for medical operations and research in the province. Most residents of the province go to Cabanatuan for their check ups and appointments in hospitals and clinics within the city.\nList of Hospitals: (3) Public and (5) Private\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6901022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6901022", "title": "Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies", "text": "Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies\n\nThe Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (CMRS) in Oxford, England, is a programme for international students (mainly American) to study in Oxford, and also encourages research in the humanities and fields of medieval and renaissance studies. It was founded by Dr. John and Dr. Sandra J.K.M Feneley in 1975. In 2014, CMRS became part of the global network of Middlebury College C.V. Starr Schools Abroad and is now known as the Middlebury College-CMRS Oxford Humanities Program (M-CMRS). The CMRS has long been affiliated with Keble College, Oxford, and participants are associate members of the College with access to all its facilities. Among the American colleges and universities that have sent students to CMRS are The University of Georgia, Elmhurst College, St. Mary's College of California, St. Mary's College of Maryland, St. Olaf College, William Jewell College, Middlebury College.\n\nCMRS is located in St. Michael's Hall on Shoe Lane, close to Carfax at the very center of Oxford. St Michael's Hall is a large building and contains, among other things, a lecture hall, teaching rooms, offices for the M-CMRS administration, the Feneley Library, and several floors of student accommodation, including a kitchen, dining room, and Junior Common Room.\n\nTen weeks of each semester coincide with Oxford University's Michaelmas or Hilary Terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "55579144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55579144", "title": "Eva Sachs", "text": "Eva Sachs\n\nEva Henriette Sachs (13 April 1882 – September 1936) was a German classical philologist, whose dissertation reconceptualized the relation between Theaetetus and Plato.\n\nEva Sachs was born in Berlin on 13 April 1882. Daughter of the Jewish couple Immanuel Sachs and Minna Sachs (Lachmann), she was early orphaned.\n\nBetween 1898 and 1902 she attended the Victoria-Lyzeum. Then, in 1904, she enrolled at the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, Berlin, studying Plato. \nShe had classes with great classicists such as Ernst Cassirer, Otto Hirschfeld, Eduard Meyer and Friedrich Paulsen. However, her great mentor was Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff, who between 1904 and 1914 offered several lectures and seminars on Plato and inspired her to produce her dissertation under his supervision, with Hermann Diels as second reader.\n\nIn her dissertation, \"De Theaeteto Atheniensi Mathematico\", promoted in 1914, she re-conceptualized the relation between Theaetetus, the mathematician, and Plato.\n\nSachs proved with her dissertation that Theaetetus, son of Euphronius from Sounion, was, at the same time, the mathematician and the friend and student of Plato. \nIn this way, the Suda is responsible to causing the confusion of transforming the same Theaetetus into two. She also persuasively argued that the battle of Corinth (Pl. Tht. 142a) in which Theaetetus died was the one on 369 B.C., and not 394 B.C.\n\nDue to the good acceptance of her dissertation conclusions by the highest authorities in the subject, an expanded German version of this work, \"The Five Platonic Solids: On the History of Mathematics and the Theory of Elements in Plato and the Pythagoreans\", was translated from the Latin and published in 1917.\n\nDespite the good reception of her work, Sachs did not continue her career. Notwithstanding her contribution to Wilamowitz's considerations on his famous study on Plato, published in 1919, she is generally viewed as a source of evidence for Wilamowitz, instead of a scholar in her own right.\n\nEva Sachs spent her last years in an asylum and died in Vienna in September 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "19914843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19914843", "title": "Ferdinand Magellan", "text": "Ferdinand Magellan\n\nFerdinand Magellan ( or ; , ; , ; c. 1480 – 27 April 1521) was a Portuguese explorer who organised the Spanish expedition to the East Indies from 1519 to 1522, resulting in the first circumnavigation of the Earth, completed by Juan Sebastián Elcano.\n\nBorn into a Portuguese noble family in around 1480, Magellan became a skilled sailor and naval officer and was eventually selected by King Charles I of Spain to search for a westward route to the Maluku Islands (the \"Spice Islands\"). Commanding a fleet of five vessels, he headed south through the Atlantic Ocean to Patagonia, passing through the Strait of Magellan into a body of water he named the \"peaceful sea\" (the modern Pacific Ocean). Despite a series of storms and mutinies, the expedition reached the Spice Islands in 1521 and returned home via the Indian Ocean to complete the first circuit of the globe. Magellan did not complete the entire voyage, as he was killed during the Battle of Mactan in the Philippines in 1521. His gift, the Santo Niño de Cebú image, remains one of his legacies during his arrival.\n\nMagellan had already reached the Malay Archipelago in Southeast Asia on previous voyages traveling east (from 1505 to 1511–1512). By visiting this area again but now travelling west, Magellan achieved a nearly complete personal circumnavigation of the globe for the first time in history.\n\nThe Magellanic penguin is named after him, as he was the first European to note it. Magellan's navigational skills have also been acknowledged in the naming of objects associated with the stars, including the Magellanic Clouds, now known to be two nearby dwarf galaxies; the twin lunar craters of Magelhaens and Magelhaens A; and the Martian crater of Magelhaens.\n\nMagellan was born in northern Portugal in around 1480, either at Vila Nova de Gaia, near Porto, in Douro Litoral Province, or at Sabrosa, near Vila Real, in Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro Province. He was the son of Rodrigo de Magalhães, \"Alcaide-Mor\" of Aveiro (1433–1500, son of Pedro Afonso de Magalhães and wife Quinta de Sousa) and wife Alda de Mesquita and brother of Leonor or Genebra de Magalhães, wife with issue of João Fernandes Barbosa.\n\nIn March 1505 at the age of 25, Magellan enlisted in the fleet of 22 ships sent to host D. Francisco de Almeida as the first viceroy of Portuguese India. Although his name does not appear in the chronicles, it is known that he remained there eight years, in Goa, Cochin and Quilon. He participated in several battles, including the battle of Cannanore in 1506, where he was wounded. In 1509 he fought in the battle of Diu. He later sailed under Diogo Lopes de Sequeira in the first Portuguese embassy to Malacca, with Francisco Serrão, his friend and possibly cousin. In September, after arriving at Malacca, the expedition fell victim to a conspiracy ending in retreat. Magellan had a crucial role, warning Sequeira and saving Francisco Serrão, who had landed.\n\nIn 1511, under the new governor Afonso de Albuquerque, Magellan and Serrão participated in the conquest of Malacca. After the conquest their ways parted: Magellan was promoted, with a rich plunder and, in the company of a Malay he had indentured and baptized, Enrique of Malacca, he returned to Portugal in 1512. Serrão departed in the first expedition sent to find the \"Spice Islands\" in the Moluccas, where he remained. He married a woman from Amboina and became a military advisor to the Sultan of Ternate, Bayan Sirrullah. His letters to Magellan would prove decisive, giving information about the spice-producing territories.\n\nAfter taking a leave without permission, Magellan fell out of favour. Serving in Morocco, he was wounded, resulting in a permanent limp. He was accused of trading illegally with the Moors. The accusations were proved false, but he received no further offers of employment after 15 May 1514. Later on in 1515, he got an employment offer as a crew member on a Portuguese ship, but rejected this. In 1517 after a quarrel with King Manuel I, who denied his persistent demands to lead an expedition to reach the spice islands from the east (i.e., while sailing westwards, seeking to avoid the need to sail around the tip of Africa), he left for Spain. In Seville he befriended his countryman Diogo Barbosa and soon married the daughter of Diogo's second wife, María Caldera Beatriz Barbosa. They had two children: Rodrigo de Magalhães and Carlos de Magalhães, both of whom died at a young age. His wife died in Seville around 1521.\n\nMeanwhile, Magellan devoted himself to studying the most recent charts, investigating, in partnership with cosmographer Rui Faleiro, a gateway from the Atlantic to the South Pacific and the possibility of the Moluccas being Spanish according to the demarcation of the Treaty of Tordesillas.\n\nChristopher Columbus's voyages to the West (1492–1503) had the goal of reaching the Indies and to establish direct commercial relations between Spain and the Asian kingdoms. The Spanish soon realized that the lands of the Americas were not a part of Asia, but a new continent. The 1494 Treaty of Tordesillas reserved for Portugal the eastern routes that went around Africa, and Vasco da Gama and the Portuguese arrived in India in 1498.\n\nCastile (\"Spain\") urgently needed to find a new commercial route to Asia. After the Junta de Toro conference of 1505, the Spanish Crown commissioned expeditions to discover a route to the west. Spanish explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa reached the Pacific Ocean in 1513 after crossing the Isthmus of Panama, and Juan Díaz de Solís died in Río de la Plata in 1516 while exploring South America in the service of Spain.\n\nIn October 1517 in Seville, Magellan contacted Juan de Aranda, Factor of the \"Casa de Contratación\". Following the arrival of his partner Rui Faleiro, and with the support of Aranda, they presented their project to the Spanish king, Charles I, future Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. Magellan's project, if successful, would realize Columbus' plan of a spice route by sailing west without damaging relations with the Portuguese. The idea was in tune with the times and had already been discussed after Balboa's discovery of the Pacific. On 22 March 1518 the king named Magellan and Faleiro captains so that they could travel in search of the Spice Islands in July. He raised them to the rank of Commander of the Order of Santiago. The king granted them:\n\nThe expedition was funded largely by the Spanish Crown, which provided ships carrying supplies for two years of travel. Expert cartographer Jorge Reinel and Diogo Ribeiro, a Portuguese who had started working for Charles V in 1518 as a cartographer at the \"Casa de Contratación\", took part in the development of the maps to be used in the travel. Several problems arose during the preparation of the trip, including lack of money, the king of Portugal trying to stop them, Magellan and other Portuguese incurring suspicion from the Spanish, and the difficult nature of Faleiro. Finally, thanks to the tenacity of Magellan, the expedition was ready. Through the bishop Juan Rodríguez de Fonseca they obtained the participation of merchant Christopher de Haro, who provided a quarter of the funds and goods to barter.\n\nThe fleet provided by King Charles V included five ships:\n\nThe crew of about 270 included men from several nations, including Portugal, Spain, Italy, Germany, Belgium, Greece, England and France. Spanish authorities were wary of Magellan, so that they almost prevented him from sailing, switching his mostly Portuguese crew to mostly men of Spain. It included about 40 Portuguese, among them Magellan's brother-in-law Duarte Barbosa, João Serrão, a relative of Francisco Serrão, Estêvão Gomes and Magellan's indentured servant Enrique of Malacca. Faleiro, who had planned to accompany the voyage, withdrew prior to boarding.\nJuan Sebastián Elcano, a Spanish merchant ship captain settled at Seville, embarked seeking the king's pardon for previous misdeeds. Antonio Pigafetta, a Venetian scholar and traveller, asked to be on the voyage, accepting the title of \"supernumerary\" and a modest salary. He became a strict assistant of Magellan and kept an accurate journal. The only other sailor to report the voyage would be Francisco Albo, who kept a formal logbook.\nJuan de Cartagena was named Inspector General of the expedition, responsible for its financial and trading operations.\n\nOn 10 August 1519, the five ships under Magellan's command left Seville and descended the Guadalquivir River to reach the Atlantic Ocean at Sanlúcar de Barrameda, at the mouth of the river. There they remained more than five weeks. Finally they set sail on 20 September 1519 and left Spain.\n\nKing Manuel I ordered a Portuguese naval detachment to pursue Magellan, but the explorer evaded them. After stopping at the Canary Islands, Magellan arrived at Cape Verde, where he set course for Cape St. Augustine in Brazil. On 27 November the expedition crossed the equator; on 6 December the crew sighted South America.\n\nOn 13 December anchored near present-day Rio de Janeiro. Although in 1500, Pedro Alvares Cabral claimed the eastern most shores of Brazil for Portugal, Portugal did not maintain a permanent settlement there to protect its brazilwood monopoly (the French were able to help themselves to the timber without interference.) Magellan's armada arrived without Portuguese notice. There the crew was resupplied, but bad conditions caused them to delay. Afterwards, they continued to sail south along South America's east coast, looking for the strait that Magellan believed would lead to the Spice Islands. The fleet reached Río de la Plata in early February, 1520.\n\nFor overwintering, Magellan established a temporary settlement called Puerto San Julian on March 30, 1520. On Easter (April 1 and 2), a mutiny broke out involving three of the five ship captains. Magellan took quick and decisive action. Luis de Mendoza, the captain of \"Victoria\", was killed by a party sent by Magellan, and the ship was recovered. After \"Concepción's\" anchor cable had been secretly cut by his forces, the ship drifted towards the well-armed \"Trinidad\", and \"Concepcion's\" captain de Quesada and his inner circle surrendered. Juan de Cartagena, the head of the mutineers on the \"San Antonio,\" subsequently gave up. Antonio Pigafetta reported that Gaspar Quesada, the captain of \"Concepción\", and other mutineers were executed, while Juan de Cartagena, the captain of \"San Antonio\", and a priest named Padre Sanchez de la Reina were marooned on the coast. Most of the men, including Juan Sebastián Elcano, were needed and forgiven. Reportedly those killed were drawn and quartered and impaled on the coast; years later, their bones were found by Sir Francis Drake.\n\nThe journey resumed. The help of Duarte Barbosa was crucial in facing the riot in Puerto San Julian; Magellan appointed him as captain of the \"Victoria\". The \"Santiago\" was sent down the coast on a scouting expedition and was wrecked in a sudden storm. All of its crew survived and made it safely to shore. Two of them returned overland to inform Magellan of what had happened, and to bring rescue to their comrades. After this experience, Magellan decided to wait for a few weeks more before resuming the voyage with the four remaining ships.\n\nAt 52°S latitude on 21 October 1520, the fleet reached Cape Virgenes and concluded they had found the passage, because the waters were brine and deep inland. Four ships began an arduous trip through the long passage that Magellan called the \"Estrecho (Canal) de Todos los Santos\", (\"All Saints' Channel\"), because the fleet travelled through it on 1 November or All Saints' Day. The strait is now named the Strait of Magellan. He first assigned \"Concepcion\" and \"San Antonio\" to explore the strait, but the latter, commanded by Gómez, deserted and headed back to Spain on 20 November. On 28 November, the three remaining ships entered the South Pacific. Magellan named the waters the \"Mar Pacifico\" (Pacific Ocean) because of its apparent stillness. Magellan and his crew were the first Europeans to reach Tierra del Fuego just east of the Pacific side of the strait.\n\nHeading northwest, the crew reached the equator on 13 February 1521. On 6 March they reached the Marianas and Guam. Pigafetta described the \"lateen sail\" used by the inhabitants of Guam, hence the name \"Island of Sails\", but he also writes the inhabitants \"entered the ships and stole whatever they could lay their hands on\", including \"the small boat that was fastened to the poop of the flagship.\" \"Those people are poor, but ingenious and very thievish, on account of which we called those three islands the islands of Ladroni.\"\n\nOn 16 March Magellan reached the island of Homonhon in the Philippines, with 150 crew left. Members of his expedition became the first Europeans to reach the Philippine archipelago.\n\nMagellan relied on Enrique, his Malay servant and interpreter, to communicate with the native tribes. He had been indentured by Magellan in 1511 after the colonization of Malacca, and had accompanied him through later adventures. They traded gifts with Rajah Siaiu of Mazaua who guided them to Cebu on 7 April.\n\nRajah Humabon of Cebu was friendly towards Magellan and the Spaniards; both he and his queen Hara Amihan were baptized as Christians and were given the image of the Holy Child (later known as Santo Niño de Cebu) which along with a cross (Magellan's Cross) symbolizes the Christianization of the Philippines. Afterward, Rajah Humabon and his ally Datu Zula convinced Magellan to kill their enemy, Datu Lapu-Lapu, on Mactan. Magellan wanted to convert Lapu-Lapu to Christianity, as he had Humabon, but Lapu-Lapu rejected that. On the morning of 27 April 1521, Magellan sailed to Mactan with a small force. During the resulting battle against Lapu-Lapu's troops, Magellan was struck by a bamboo spear, and later surrounded and finished off with other weapons.\n\nPigafetta and Ginés de Mafra provided written documents of the events culminating in Magellan's death:\n\nMagellan provided in his will that Enrique, his interpreter, was to be freed upon his death. But after the battle, the remaining ships' masters refused to free the Malay. Enrique escaped his indenture on 1 May with the aid of Rajah Humabon, amid the deaths of almost 30 crewmen.\n\nPigafetta had been jotting down words in both Butuanon and Cebuano languages – which he started at Mazaua on 29 March and his list grew to a total of 145 words. He continued communications with indigenous peoples during the rest of the voyage.\n\n\"Nothing of Magellan's body survived, that afternoon the grieving rajah-king, hoping to recover his remains, offered Mactan's victorious chief a handsome ransom of copper and iron for them but Datu Lapulapu refused. He intended to keep the body as a war trophy. Since his wife and child died in Seville before any member of the expedition could return to Spain, it seemed that every evidence of Ferdinand Magellan's existence had vanished from the earth.\"\n\nThe casualties suffered in the Philippines left the expedition with too few men to sail all three of the remaining ships. Consequently, on 2 May they abandoned and burned \"Concepción.\" Reduced to \"Trinidad\" and \"Victoria\", the expedition fled westward to Palawan. They left that island on 21 June and were guided to Brunei, Borneo, by Moro pilots, who could navigate the shallow seas. They anchored off the Brunei breakwater for 35 days, where Pigafetta, an Italian from Vicenza, recorded the splendour of Rajah Siripada's court (gold, two pearls the size of hens' eggs, porcelain from China, eyeglasses from Europe etc.). In addition, Brunei boasted tame elephants and an armament of 62 cannons, more than five times the armament of Magellan's ships. Brunei people were not interested in the Spanish cargo of cloves, but these proved more valuable than gold upon the return to Spain.\n\nWhen reaching the Maluku Islands (the Spice Islands) on 6 November, the total crew numbered 115. They traded with the Sultan of Tidore, a rival of the Sultan of Ternate, who was the ally of the Portuguese.\n\nThe two remaining ships, laden with valuable spices, tried to return to Spain by sailing westwards. However, as they left the Spice Islands, the \"Trinidad\" began to take on water. The crew tried to discover and repair the leak, but failed. They concluded that \"Trinidad\" would need to spend considerable time being overhauled, but the small \"Victoria\" was not large enough to accommodate all the surviving crew. As a result, \"Victoria\" with some of the crew sailed west for Spain. Several weeks later, \"Trinidad\" departed and tried to return to Spain via the Pacific route. This attempt failed. \"Trinidad\" was captured by the Portuguese and was eventually wrecked in a storm while at anchor under Portuguese control.\n\n\"Victoria\" set sail via the Indian Ocean route home on 21 December, commanded by Juan Sebastián Elcano. By 6 May 1522 the \"Victoria\" rounded the Cape of Good Hope, with only rice for rations. Twenty crewmen died of starvation before Elcano put into Cape Verde, a Portuguese holding, where he abandoned 13 more crew on 9 July in fear of losing his cargo of 26 tons of spices (cloves and cinnamon).\nOn 6 September 1522, Elcano and the remaining crew of Magellan's voyage arrived in Spain aboard the \"Victoria\", almost exactly three years after the fleet of five ships had departed. Magellan had not intended to circumnavigate the world, but rather had intended only to find a secure route through which the Spanish ships could navigate to the Spice Islands. After Magellan's death, Elcano decided to push westward, thereby completing the first known voyage around the entire Earth.\n\nMaximilianus Transylvanus interviewed some of the surviving members of the expedition when they presented themselves to the Spanish court at Valladolid in the autumn of 1522. He wrote the first account of the voyage, which was published in 1523. Pigafetta's account was not published until 1525, and was not published in its entirety until 1800. This was the Italian transcription by Carlo Amoretti of what is now called the \"Ambrosiana codex.\" The expedition eked out a small profit, but the crew was not paid full wages.\n\nFour crewmen of the original 55 on \"Trinidad\" finally returned to Spain in 1522; 51 had died in war or from disease. In total, approximately 232 sailors of assorted nationalities died on the expedition around the world with Magellan.\n\nWhen \"Victoria\", the one surviving ship and the smallest carrack in the fleet, returned to the harbor of departure after completing the first circumnavigation of the Earth, only 18 men out of the original 237 men were on board. Among the survivors were two Italians, Antonio Pigafetta and Martino de Judicibus. Martino de Judicibus () was a Genoese or Savonese Chief Steward. His history is preserved in the nominative registers at the \"Archivo General de Indias\" in Seville, Spain. The family name is referred to with the exact Latin patronymic, \"de Judicibus\". Martino de Judicibus, initially assigned to the caravel \"Concepción\", one of five ships of the Spanish fleet of Magellan, had embarked on the expedition with the rank of captain.\n\nAntonio Pigafetta's journal is the main source for much of what is known about Magellan and Elcano's voyage. The other direct report of the voyage was that of Francisco Albo, the last \"Victoria\"'s pilot, who kept a formal logbook. Europeans first learned of the circumnavigation through an account written by Maximilianus Transylvanus, a relative of sponsor Christopher de Haro, who interviewed survivors in 1522 and published his account in 1523.\n\nSince there was not a set limit to the east, in 1524 both kingdoms had tried to find the exact location of the antimeridian of Tordesillas, which would divide the world into two equal hemispheres and to resolve the \"Moluccas issue\". A board met several times without reaching an agreement: the knowledge at that time was insufficient for an accurate calculation of longitude, and each gave the islands to their sovereign. An agreement was reached only with the Treaty of Zaragoza, signed on 1529 between Spain and Portugal. It assigned the Moluccas to Portugal and the Philippines to Spain. The course that Magellan charted was followed by other navigators, such as Sir Francis Drake. In 1565, Andrés de Urdaneta discovered the Manila-Acapulco route.\n\nIn 1525, soon after the return of Magellan's expedition, Charles V sent an expedition led by García Jofre de Loaísa to occupy the Moluccas, claiming that they were in his zone of the Treaty of Tordesillas. This expedition included the most notable Spanish navigators: Juan Sebastián Elcano, who, along with many other sailors, died of malnutrition during the voyage, and the young Andrés de Urdaneta. They had difficulty reaching the Moluccas, docking at Tidore. The Portuguese were already established in nearby Ternate and the two nations had nearly a decade of skirmishing over the \"possession.\" (occupied by indigenous peoples.)\n\nMagellan's expedition was the first to circumnavigate the globe and the first to navigate the strait in South America connecting the Atlantic and the Pacific oceans. Magellan's name for the Pacific was adopted by other Europeans.\n\nMagellan's crew observed several animals that were entirely new to European science, including a \"camel without humps\", which was probably a guanaco, whose range extends to Tierra del Fuego. The llama, vicuña and alpaca natural ranges were in the Andes mountains. A black \"goose\" that had to be skinned instead of plucked was a penguin.\n\nThe full extent of the globe was realized, since their voyage was 14,460 Spanish leagues (60,440 km or 37,560 mi). The global expedition showed the need for an International Date Line to be established. Upon returning the expedition found its date was a day behind, although they had faithfully maintained the ship's log. They lost one day because they traveled west during their circumnavigation of the globe, opposite to Earth's daily rotation. This caused great excitement at the time, and a special delegation was sent to the Pope to explain the oddity to him.\n\nThe Order of Magellan was established in 1902 to honour those who complete a circumnavigation and make other contributions to humanity.\n\nTwo of the closest galaxies, the Magellanic Clouds in the southern celestial hemisphere, were named for Magellan sometime after 1800. The Magellan probe, which mapped the planet Venus from 1990 to 1994, was named after Magellan. The Ferdinand Magellan train rail car (also known as U.S. Car. No. 1) is a former Pullman Company observation car that was re-built by the U.S. Government for presidential use from 1943 until 1958.\n\nA replica of the \"Victoria\", the only ship of Magellan's to survive the entire voyage, can be visited in Puerto San Julian.\n\nThree craters, two located on the Moon and one on Mars, have been named after Magellan using the spelling \"Magelhaens\". The names were adopted by the International Astronomical Union in 1935 (Magelhaens on the Moon), 1976 (Magelhaens on Mars), and 2006 (Magelhaens A on the Moon). The asteroid 4055 Magellan, discovered in 1985, and the Magellan probe to Venus (1989–1994) were also named after him.\n\nThe five hundredth anniversary of Magellan's expedition and circumnavigation will be commemorated in a series of events organised by the municipal council of Sanlucar de Barrameda in Spain, and supported by philanthropic organisations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42520570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42520570", "title": "First globalization", "text": "First globalization\n\n\"First globalization\" is a phrase used by economists to describe the world's first major period of globalization of trade and finance, which took place between 1870 and 1914. The \"second globalization\" began in 1944 and ended in 1971. This led to the third era of globalization, which began in 1989 and continues today.\n\nGlobalization revolves around technological and social advances, which further leads to advances in trade and cultural relativism throughout the world. Some economists claim that globalization was first started by the discovery of the Americas by Christopher Columbus. This assumption is considered false due to the mass discovery of gold and silver in mines. This discovery led to the decrease in value of silver and gold in Europe, causing inflation in the Spanish and Portuguese empires. However, the discovery of the Americas and the natives gave European traders a new source of labor between the continents, which also increased trade. This stage has not been officially deemed the \"first era of globalization\" because the world trade numbers were not increasing exponentially. World trade increased by 1% per year from 1500 to 1800, which further led to the first era of globalization.\n\nEntering the 18th century, due to new technological breakthroughs world trade started to increase rapidly. The first technological advancement that contributed to this was the steam engine, introduced in the 17th century. This led to major progress in international trade among the economic powers of the world.\n\nThe invention of the steamship had a great impact on the first wave of globalization. Before its invention, trade routes were reliant on wind patterns, but steamships reduced shipping time and shipping cost. By 1850, nearly 129 countries used steamships for trade, and approximately 5,000 imports and exports were made to 5,000 cities, thus making a great impact on the world's global economy.\n"}
{"id": "48969761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48969761", "title": "Forerunners of Modern Socialism", "text": "Forerunners of Modern Socialism\n\nForerunners of Modern Socialism ( \"Die Vorläufer des neueren Sozialismus)\" is a four volume work that documents the history of primitive communist and socialist ideas, edited by Karl Kautsky and including contributions by a number of prominent intellectuals of the Second International, including Eduard Bernstein, Paul Lafargue, C. Hugo, Franz Mehring, and Georgii Plekhanov. The first volume was published in 1895.\n\nAlthough only partially translated into English as of the middle of the 2010s, this German-language work is regarded as an important pioneering Marxist study of the history of the impact of early Christianity and various classical philosophical thinkers upon the modern socialist movement.\n\n\"Forerunners of Modern Socialism\" was a series of volumes published under the general title \"The History of Socialism in Individual Treatments\" ( \"Die geschichte des Sozialismus in Einzeldarstellungen),\" initiated under the editorship of Karl Kautsky (1854-1938). The first volume of what was to eventually emerge as a four volume work was published in Stuttgart by the Dietz publishing house and included topical contributions by Kautsky, Eduard Bernstein, Paul Lafargue, C. Hugo, Franz Mehring, and Georgii Plekhanov.\n\nKautsky contributed the chapters on Christianity from the ancient to the Reformation period. Eduard Bernstein contributed a chapter on Cromwell and Communism. Karl Marx's son in law, Paul Lafargue added substantial material on the Jesuit communistic community in Paraguay, also called the Jesuit reduction settlements, as well as Campanella's \"The City of the Sun.\"\n\nIt was a major work of Second International, Orthodox Marxism in analyzing history from ancient times to the early modern period.\n\nKarl Kautsky, the leading theoretician of the Second International began his coverage of Thomas More with the observation that the two great figures inaugurating the history of socialism are More and Münzer, and that both of them \"follow the long line of Socialists, from Lycurgus and Pythagoras to Plato, the Gracchi, Catiline, Christ...\"\n\nThe final volume of the four-volume set was written by Hugo Lindemann and Morris Hillquit, focusing on socialism in France and America.\n\n"}
{"id": "22458867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22458867", "title": "Fuyuko Kamisaka", "text": "Fuyuko Kamisaka\n\nKamisaka was born as Yoshiko Niwa in Tokyo on June 10, 1930. Her first work, \"Shokuba-no gunzo\" (\"People at a Place of Work\"), based on her experiences as a worker for Toyota, was published in 1959 and won a prize for works by new authors.\n\nHer best-known work is \"\"Keishu Nazare-en\" about a facility for Japanese widows of South Koreans.\nOther works dealt with Sugamo Prison, the Battle of Iwo Jima and vivisection experiments conducted by the Japanese on prisoners of war.\n\nFuyoko Kamisaka died of cancer, aged 78, on April 14, 2009 in her native Tokyo.\n\nFuyoko Kamisaka received the Kikuchi Kan Literary Award in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "57883898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57883898", "title": "Grace Simpson", "text": "Grace Simpson\n\nMary Grace Simpson (12 November 1920 – 8 February 2007) was a British archaeologist and museum curator specialising in the study of Roman ceramics, especially Samian ware.\n\nSimpson spent her early years in Newcastle, where her father F. G. Simpson was Director of Archaeological Field Research and went to school at Penrhos College. She served as a nurse during the Second World War.\n\nAfter the war, Simpson studied at UCL Institute of Archaeology, graduating with a Diploma in European Archaeology in 1948. Between 1950 and 1954 she was a research assistant to Eric Birley at Durham University. Between 1950 and 1972 Simpson was the Honorary Curator of the Clayton Collection of antiquities at Chesters Roman fort. She undertook postgraduate study at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford and was awarded her PhD from Oxford in 1960. The subject of this thesis was published in 1964 as \"Britons and the Roman Army: A Study of Wales and the Southern Pennines in the 1st-3rd Centuries\". She taught at Oxford for the Department of Extra-Mural Studies and was a visiting fellow at Haverford College, Pennsylvania.\n\nSimpson's study of the late Joseph Stanfield's investigations into samian ware resulted in the 1958 publication of \"Central Gaulish Potters\", which remains an essential work for the study of the subject more than fifty years on. She was one of the early member of the Rei cretariae Romanae fautores, a specialist study group for Roman ceramicists, following its founding 1957 and organised the 14th Congress of the society in Oxford and London in September 1984.\n\n"}
{"id": "25865516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25865516", "title": "Gyula László", "text": "Gyula László\n\nGyula László (Kőhalom, 14 March 1910 – Nagyvárad (today: Oradea) 17 July 1998) was a Hungarian historian, archaeologist and artist.\n\nHis main work is the disputed theory of \"double incoming\" of Hungarians to the Carpathian Basin in 5th and 9th century. The base of the theory is that Avar culture is similar, or sometimes identical to Hungarian culture, so the second incoming in 895, confirmed by all historians, must have been taking part after another 'incoming'. This is documented in all Hungarian chronicles, such as Chronicon Pictum.\n"}
{"id": "21198769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21198769", "title": "Hisham Sharabi", "text": "Hisham Sharabi\n\nHisham Sharabi () (1927 Jaffa, Palestine – 2005 Beirut, Lebanon) was Professor Emeritus of History and Umar al-Mukhtar Chair of Arab Culture at Georgetown University, where he was a specialist in European intellectual history and social thought. He died of cancer at the American University of Beirut hospital on January 13, 2005.\n\nHe spent his early years growing up in Jaffa, Palestine and Acre, Palestine before attending American University in Beirut, where he graduated with a B.A. in Philosophy. He then traveled to study at the University of Chicago, where he completed an M.A. in Philosophy in 1949. Politically active from a young age, Sharabi then returned to serve as editor of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party’s monthly magazine \"al-Jil al-Jadid\" (\"The New Generation\"). Forced to flee to Jordan after the parties disbanding in 1949, Sharabi returned to the United States where he completed a Ph.D. in the history of culture, again at the University at Chicago. That same year, he began to teach at Georgetown University, where he gained full professorship in eleven years.\n\nDr. Sharabi, while an ardent supporter of Palestinian rights, was not beyond criticizing the Palestinian governing bodies. According to a story in the \"Washington Post\", \"In 1999, after PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat ordered the arrests of 11 Palestinian academics who had accused his administration of 'tyranny and corruption,' Dr. Sharabi, along with Edward Said of Columbia University, signed a letter calling the arrests 'a totally unjustifiable attack on the freedom of expression.'\" Nine of the lawmakers were immune from arrest, but two later accused the Palestinian police of attacking them.[5]\n\nHe worked tirelessly to promote understanding of the Arab culture, establishing in 1973, along with several other colleagues, the Georgetown Center for Contemporary Arab Studies. In 1977, Georgetown University “awarded Dr. Sharabi the Umar Al-Mukhtar Chair in Arab Culture in recognition of his distinguished intellectual contributions and his efforts to promote Arab studies.[2]” Dr. Sharabi formed, later that same year, the Jerusalem Fund for Education and Community Development, an organization that worked on educational, cultural and health issues of Palestinians. He served as Chairman of Board until his death in 2005. In 1991, he formed what is now known as the Palestine Center, which serves as a think tank educating the general public on Palestinian Political Issues.\n\nAuthor of 18 books and numerous articles and editorials, he is well respected as a foremost 20th-century Arab intellectual, contributing greatly to the study of Arabic culture[3]. Dr. Sharabi also published several books himself on Arabic culture and philosophy. \"In honor of his work in both the European and Arab fields, the Department of history at Georgetown convened an international two-day symposium in 2002 titled ‘The Role of the Intellectual in Contemporary Political Life.’ Also named in his honor is the annual Hisham Sharabi graduate essay contest, begun by the Department's graduate students upon Dr. Sharabi's retirement in 1998[2].\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43891101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43891101", "title": "History of the Jews in Adamów", "text": "History of the Jews in Adamów\n\nThe Jewish history of Adamów at the Łuków County dates back as soon as 1872. By then, more than 100 Jews lived in town, meaning the Jewish community might existed long before. During the holocaust, the entire Jewish community of the town was annihilated, resulting in the disappearance of any Jewish existence in town ever since. \nBy the end of the 19th century, more than 500 Jews lived in Adamów. Though the Jewish community kept good ties with the community of Łuków, it was put under the community of Kock. By then, the community had already owned a synagogue, a cemetery, a slaughterhouse and a mikveh. By the 1920s the Jewish community made up to 33% of the total population. During that time, Zionist parties held active branches in town.\n\nAfter entering town on September 20, 1939, the German troops formed a Ghetto and a Judenrat was established. \nThe first mass execution took place in November 1940, when 40 were shot dead in the local cemetery. Shortly after, a group of Jews from nearby Nasielsk were put in the Adamów Ghetto. On the winter of 1942/1943 a Typhoid fever stroke the ghetto. The deportations of the Adamów Ghetto Jews began in October 1942. Then, around 300 individuals, mostly elders, were shot to death in the suburbs of Adamów, in a meadow situated western to the church. All the rest 1,724 Jews living in the Ghetto were sent to the Lukow Ghetto. On the end of September 1942 a group of survivors from a mass killing of Jews in the nearby Serokomla and joined the Jews of the local ghetto. On September 4, 1942, all valuables were taken away from the Jews of the ghetto by Gestapo soldiers. Three and four days after, Ukarainian and Polish officers were in charge of sending the Jews of the Ghetto to Treblinka extermination camp. A small group of laborers stayed in the village until its closing in August 1943. Another group of forty Jews escaped the Adamów ghetto into the nearby forests, forming a partisan group which carried out attacks on local Nazi forces and Polish representatives.\n\n\nDuring the history of the town Jewish community, and especially in the interwar period in the beginning of the 20th century, most of the grocery stores in Adamów were Jewish-owned. As a result, most of the Jews lived at the city center, which is no longer visible as it was back then because it was set on fire in 1943.\n\nBecause the synagogue was destroyed during World War II, not much is known about it. It is assumed, though, that it was erected during the 1890s. A Mikveh was also operated at the same time.\n\nThe Jewish cemetery of Adamow is located along the road to Wojcieszków village. No gravestones remain. A reconstruction project was held during 2001, clearing and fencing the area of the cemetery. A monument was also erected in its area.\n\nNo memorial was erected over the mass grave site although forty Jews were murdered in the cemetery in November 1940. In October 1942, the Jews were deported to the Lukow ghetto and then to Treblinka Concentration Camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "12256471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12256471", "title": "Ioseb Grishashvili", "text": "Ioseb Grishashvili\n\nIoseb Grishashvili () was a pen name of Ioseb Mamulishvili (; born 12 April/24 April 1889 – died 3 August 1965) was a noted poet and historian from Georgia. A history museum in Tbilisi, his birth- and death place is named for him.\n\nGrishashvili became a member of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences in 1946.\n"}
{"id": "675845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675845", "title": "James Evans (linguist)", "text": "James Evans (linguist)\n\nJames Evans (January 18, 1801 – November 23, 1846) was an English-Canadian Methodist missionary and amateur linguist. He is best remembered for his creation of the \"syllabic\" writing system for Ojibwe and Cree, which was later adapted to other languages such as Inuktitut.\n\nEvans was born in Kingston-upon-Hull in England, but emigrated with his parents to Lower Canada in 1822, where he worked as a teacher. He later moved to Rice Lake and continued his teaching work.\n\nIn 1833 he was ordained as a Wesleyan (Methodist) minister, and in 1840 he was given authority over the local district in Norway House in Manitoba. During this time Evans did his greatest work - the development of the Ojibwe and Cree scripts. Evans had picked up Ojibwe during his work among the people in Upper Canada. He created the Ojibwe script after first trying to apply a Roman script to their language. Later, he modified syllabics slightly and applied it to Cree, a related language. The scripts were based on Devanagari and Pitman Shorthand. They were easy to learn and led to almost universal literacy among the Canadian Ojibwe and Cree within a few years.\n\nEvans's other missionary work was scarred by turmoil. Evans clashed several times with the Hudson's Bay Company, mostly over their treatment of the native population. Evans accidentally shot and killed his friend and co-worker Thomas Hassall in 1844. He was accused of sexual misconduct with native girls under his care. Although he was acquitted, he was sent to London to defend himself again. The stress took a toll on his health, and he died of a heart attack in 1846.\n\nJames Evans's grave was found in England. Then Evans's remains were cremated and sent to Norway House, Manitoba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42777797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42777797", "title": "Jan Jansen (historian)", "text": "Jan Jansen (historian)\n\nDr. Jan Jansen (born 1962) of Leiden University, Netherlands, is a historian and anthropologist specialising in the oral history of sub-Saharan Africa, particularly Mali.\n\nJansen is the managing editor of \"History in Africa\", the journal of the African Studies Association. He is also a founding editor of \"Mande Worlds\", published by LIT Verlag, Munster/Hamburg, and \"African Sources for African History\", published by Brill, Leiden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5529040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5529040", "title": "Julius Lippert (historian)", "text": "Julius Lippert (historian)\n\nJulius Lippert (April 12, 1839 – December 12, 1909) was an Austrian cultural historian and politician in Bohemia.\n\nLippert was born in Braunau (Broumov) and died in Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "307935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307935", "title": "Kafiristan", "text": "Kafiristan\n\nKāfiristān, or Kāfirstān (), is a historical region that covered present-day Nuristan Province in Afghanistan and its surroundings. This historic region lies on, and mainly comprises, the basins of the rivers Alingar, Pech (Kamah), Landai Sin and Kunar, and the intervening mountain ranges. It is bounded by the main range of the Hindu Kush on the north, Pakistan's Chitral District to the east, the Kunar Valley in the south and the Alishang River in the west. \n\nKafiristan took its name because of the enduring pagan Nuristani inhabitants of the region who once followed a form of ancient Hinduism, mixed with locally-developed accretions, were non-Muslims and were thus known to the surrounding Muslim population as Kafir, meaning \"infidel\". They are closely related to the Kalash people, a fiercely independent people with a distinctive culture, language and religion.\n\nThe area extending from modern Nooristan to Kashmir was known as \"Peristan\", a vast area containing host of \"Kafir\" cultures and Indo-European languages that became Islamized over a long period, but was forced to become Muslim by Abdul Rahman Khan. The region was earlier surrounded by Buddhist states that temporarily brought literacy and state rule to the mountains, the decline of Buddhism heavily isolated the region. It was completely surrounded by Muslim states in the 16th century.\n\n\"Kafiristan\" or \"Kafirstan\" is normally taken to mean \"land [\"-stan\"] of the kafirs\" in Persian language, where the name ' is derived from the Arabic ', literally meaning a person who refuses to accept a principle of any nature and figuratively as a person refusing to accept Islam as his faith and is commonly translated into English as an \"infidel\" or \"unbeliever\". However, the influence from district names in Kafiristan of Katwar or Kator and the ethnic name Kati has also been suggested. Kafiristan was inhabited by people who followed a form of ancient Hinduism before their forcible conversion to Islam in 1895-1896.\n\nThe word \"kafir\" has also been suggested to be linked to \"Kapiś\" (= \"Kapish\"), the ancient Sanskrit name of the region that included historic Kafiristan. According to the theory, the name may have then mutated at some point into the word \"Kapir,\" and once again into the word Kafir.\n\nAncient Kapiśa \"janapada\", located south-east of the Hindukush, included and is related to Kafiristan. The Chinese pilgrim Xuanzang who visited Kapisa in 644 AD calls it \"Kai-pi-shi(h)\". Xuanzang describes \"Kai-pi-shi\" as a flourishing kingdom ruled by a Buddhist \"kshatriya\" king holding sway over ten neighbouring states, including Lampaka, Nagarahara, Gandhara and Bannu. Until the 9th century AD, Kapiśi remained the second capital of the Shahi dynasty of Kabul. Kapiśa was known for goats and their skin. Xuanzang talks of \"Shen\" breed of horses from Kapiśa (\"Kai-pi-shi\"). There is also a reference to Chinese emperor Taizong being presented with excellent breed of horses in 637 AD by an envoy from Chi-pin (Kapisa). Further evidence from Xuanzang shows that Kai-pi-shi produced all kind of cereals, many kinds of fruits, and a scented root called \"yu-kin\", probably of the grass khus, or vetiver. The people used woollen and fur clothes and gold, silver and copper coins. Objects of merchandise from all parts were found here.\n\nThe area extending from modern Nooristan to Kashmir was known as \"Peristan\", a vast area containing host of \"Kafir\" cultures and Indo-European languages that became Islamized over a long period. Earlier, it was surrounded by Buddhist states and societies which temporarily extended literacy and state rule to the region. The journey to the region was perilious according to reports of Chinese pilgrims Fa-hsien and Sung Yun. The decline of Buddhism resulted in the region becoming heavily isolated. The Islamization of the nearby Badakhshan began in 8th century and Peristan was completely surrounded by Muslim states in the 16th century. The Kalasha people of lower Chitral are the last surviving heirs of the area.\n\nThe first European recorded as having visited Kafiristan was the Portuguese Jesuit missionary Bento de Góis, SJ. By his account, he visited a city named \"Capherstam\" in 1602, during the course of a journey from Lahore to China.\n\nAmerican adventurer Colonel Alexander Gardner claimed to have visited Kafiristan twice, in 1826 and 1828. On the first occasion, Dost Mohammad, the amir of Kabul, killed members of Gardner's delegation in Afghanistan and forced him to flee from Kabul to Yarkand through west Kafiristan. On his second visit, Gardner briefly sojourned in northern Kafiristan and the Kunar Valley while returning from Yarkand.\n\nIn 1883, William Watts McNair, a British surveyor on leave, explored the area disguised as a hakim, reporting on the journey later that year to the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nGeorge Scott Robertson, medical officer during the Second Anglo-Afghan War and later British political officer in the princely state of Chitral, was given permission to explore the country of the Kafirs in 1890–91. He was the last outsider to visit the area and observe these people's polytheistic culture before their conversion to Islam. Robertson's 1896 account was entitled \"The Kafirs of the Hindu Kush\". Though some sub-groups such as the Kom paid tribute to Chitral, the majority of Kafiristan was left on the Afghan side of the frontier in 1893, when large areas of tribal lands between Afghanistan and British India were divided into zones of control by the Durand Line.\n\nThe territory between Afghanistan and British India was demarcated between 1894 and 1896. Part of the frontier lying between Nawa Kotal in outskirts of Mohmand country and Bashgal Valley on outskirts of Kafiristan were demarcated by 1895 with an agreement reached on 9 April 1895. Abdur Rahman wanted to force every community and tribal confederation with his single interpretation of Islam due to it being the only uniting factor. After the subjugation of Hazaras, Kafiristan was the last remaining autonomus part.\n\nEmir Abdur Rahman Khan's forces invaded Kafiristan in the winter of 1895-1896 and captured it in 40 days according to his autobiography. Columns invaded it from the west through Panjshir to Kullum, the strongest fort of the region. The columns from the north came through Badakhshan and from the east through Asmar. A small column also came from south-west through Laghman. The Kafirs were resettled in Laghman while the region was settled by veteran soldiers and other Afghans. The Kafirs were forcibly converted and some also converted to avoid the \"jizya\".\n\nA few years after Robertson’s visit, in 1895–96, Amir Abdur Rahman Khan invaded and converted the Kafirs to Islam as a symbolic climax to his campaigns to bring the country under a centralised Afghan government. He had similarly subjugated the Hazara people in 1892–93. In 1896 Abdur Rahman Khan, who had thus conquered the region for Islam, renamed the people the Nuristani (\"Enlightened Ones\" in Persian) and the land as Nuristan (\"Land of the Enlightened\").\n\nKafiristan was full of steep and wooded valleys. It was famous for its precise wood carving, especially of cedar-wood pillars, carved doors, furniture (including \"horn chairs\") and statuary. Some of these pillars survive, as they were reused in mosques, but temples, shrines, and centers of local cults, with their wooden effigies and multitudes of ancestor figures were torched and burnt to the ground. Only a small fraction brought back to Kabul as spoils of this Islamic victory over infidels. These consisted of various wooden effigies of ancestral heroes and pre-Islamic commemorative chairs. Of the more than thirty wooden figures brought to Kabul in 1896 or shortly thereafter, fourteen went to the Kabul Museum and four to the Musée Guimet and the Musée de l'Homme located in Paris.\nThose in the Kabul Museum were badly damaged under the Taliban but have since been restored.\n\nA few hundred Kati Kafirs, known as the \"Red Kafirs\" of the Bashgal Valley, fled across the border into Chitral but, uprooted from their homeland, they converted by the 1930s. They settled near the frontier in the valleys of Rumbur, Bumboret and Urtsun, which were then inhabited by the Kalasha tribe or the Black Kafirs. Only this group in the three valleys of Birir, Bumburet and Rumbur escaped conversion, because they were located east of the Durand line in the princely state of Chitral. After a decline in population caused by forced conversion in the 1970s, this region of Kafiristan in Pakistan, known as Kalasha Desh, has recently shown an increase in its population.\n\nIn early 1991, the Republic of Afghanistan government recognized the \"de facto\" autonomy of Nuristan and created a new province of that name from districts of Kunar Province and Lamghan Province.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47575888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47575888", "title": "Leontii Voitovych", "text": "Leontii Voitovych\n\nLeontii Voitovych (, May 16, 1951, Yemanzhelinsk, Chelyabinsk Oblast now Russian Federation) is a modern Ukrainian scientist-historian and holds a Doctor of Science (Ukrainian: До́ктор нау́к) degree. He is a research fellow of the department of Middle Ages history at the Krypiakevych Institute of Ukrainian Studies (National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine) as well as an academic department director of history of Middle Ages and Byzantine studies in the University of Lviv.\n\nBorn in the Ural region of the Russian Federation, Voitovych is from the Western Ukraine. A brother of his grandfather, Petro Voitovych (1862–1938), was a Lviv sculptor and known for his works of Lviv Opera. His family was deported across the Ural Mountains during the Stalin period and he was growing up in small mining town with many other children of Soviet exiles. His father, who finished the Prague Polytechnic as a bridge engineer, perished in a mine from a methane explosion. Soon after the Stalin's death, in 1956 Voitovych together with his mother returned to homeland and settled in Mykolaiv, Lviv Oblast. Because in the Soviet Union Voitovych was recognized as \"unreliable element\" by state authorities (i.e. a family of former exiles), he was discouraged to even try to enroll in the University of Lviv.\n\nIn 1972 he graduated from Lviv Polytechnic Institute, now Lviv Polytechnic National University, specializing in Mechanical Engineering. After graduation Voitovych worked in Berehove at a local branch of the All-Union Institute of maintenance and exploitation of vehicle-tractor park.\n\nIn 1981 he started to be involved in historical research. His supervisor was doktor of science Yaroslav Isayevych who was a director of the department of historical landmarks of the Institute of Social Sciences (today Krypiakevych Institute of Ukrainian Studies).\n\nIn 1994 Voitovych defended his dissertation for a candidate of sciences on \"Appanage duchies of Riurikids and Gediminids in 12-16th centuries\". In 2001 he defended his doctorate dissertation \"Princely dynasties of Eastern Europe (9-16th centuries): composition, social and political role\".\n\nSince the late 1990s he was a professor of academic department of Ancient History of Ukraine at the University of Lviv and since 2005 Voitovych is heading academic department of Middle Ages history and Byzantine studies.\n\nHe is considered a notable historian of genealogy of Rurikids and the history of Rus' people (Ruthenians).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30731873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30731873", "title": "List of oldest buildings", "text": "List of oldest buildings\n\nThis article lists the oldest free-standing buildings constructed in the world, including on each of the continents and within each country.\n\"Building\" is defined as any human-made structure used or interface for supporting or sheltering any use or continuous occupancy. In order to qualify for list a structure must:\nThis consciously excludes ruins of limited height and statues. The list also excludes:\n\nDates for many of the oldest structures have been arrived at by radiocarbon dating and should be considered approximate.\n\nThe following are amongst the oldest buildings in the world that have maintained the requirements to be such. Occupation sites with older human made structures such as those in Göbekli Tepe do exist, but the structures are monuments and do not meet the definition of building (which can be seen above). Many of the buildings within the list contain primarily bricks, but most importantly maintain their walls and roof. There are numerous extant structures that survive in the Orkney islands of Scotland, some of the best known of which are part of the Heart of Neolithic Orkney World Heritage Site. The list also contains many large buildings from the Egyptian Age of the Pyramids.\n\nThe following are amongst the oldest extant buildings on each of the major continents.\nThe following are among the oldest buildings in their respective countries.\n\nThe following are probably the oldest buildings of their type.\nThe following are very old human constructions that do not fit the above criteria for a building, typically because they are ruins that no longer fit the height requirement specified above or for which the only significant above-ground elements are single large stones.\nLists\n\nSites\n"}
{"id": "18693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18693", "title": "Lists of battles", "text": "Lists of battles\n\nThis is an index to articles listing battles. List of battles (alphabetical) gives a global list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3249868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3249868", "title": "Livery collar", "text": "Livery collar\n\nA livery collar or chain of office is a collar or heavy chain, usually of gold, worn as insignia of office or a mark of fealty or other association in Europe from the Middle Ages onwards.\n\nOne of the oldest and best-known livery collars is the Collar of Esses, which has been in continuous use in England since the 14th century.\n\nVarious forms of livery were used in the Middle Ages to denote attachment to a great person by friends, servants, and political supporters. The collar, usually of precious metal, was the grandest form of these, usually given by the person the livery denoted to his closest or most important associates, but should not, in the early period, be seen as separate from the wider phenomenon of livery badges, clothes and other forms. From the collar hung a badge or device indicating the person the livery related to; the most important part of the ensemble for contemporaries. Equally gold collars that had no livery connotations were worn.\n\nLivery collars seem to be first recorded in the 14th century. Charles V of France in 1378 granted to his Chamberlain Geoffrey de Belleville the right of bearing in all feasts and in all companies the collar of the \"Cosse de Geneste\" or Broomcod, a collar which was accepted and worn even by the English kings, Charles VI sending such collars to Richard II and to his three uncles. Although he distributed \"genet\" badges much more widely, only about twenty collars per year were given out, and it was treated somewhat as the sign of a pseudo-chivalric order, although no such order formally existed. The collar of Esses is first recorded earlier than this, as being given by John of Gaunt, and remained in use by the House of Lancaster throughout the Wars of the Roses.\n\nThis French type of collar, a chain of couples of broomcods linked by jewels, is seen in the contemporary Wilton Diptych portrait of Richard II, with Richard's own device of the white hart hanging below (the angels accompanying the Virgin also wear Richard's livery badges). The same collar was worn by Henry IV on the way to his crowning. During the sitting of the Parliament of England in 1394 the complaints of Richard FitzAlan, 11th Earl of Arundel against Richard II are recorded, one of his grievances being that the king had been wearing the livery collar of his uncle John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, and that people of the king's following wore the same livery. To which the king answered that soon after the return from Spain (in 1389) of his uncle, the duke, he himself took the collar from his uncle's neck, putting it on his own, which collar the king would wear and use for a sign of the good and whole-hearted love between them, even as he wore the liveries of his other uncles. Livery collars of the king of France, of Queen Anne and of the dukes of York and Lancaster are recorded amongst the royal plate and jewels which in the first year of Henry IV had come to the king's hands. The inventory shows that Queen Anne's collar, was made up of sprigs of rosemary garnished with pearls. The York collar had falcons and fetterlocks, and the Lancaster collar was doubtless that Collar of Esses used by the duke's son, Henry of Bolingbroke (Henry IV), as an earl, duke and king.\n\nThis famous livery collar, which has never passed out of use, takes many forms, its Esses being sometimes linked together chainwise, and sometimes, in early examples, as the ornamental bosses of a garter-shaped strap-collar. The oldest effigy bearing it is that in Spratton church of Sir John Swynford, who died in 1371. Swynford was a follower of John of Gaunt, and the date of his death easily disposes of the theory that the Esses were devised by Henry IV to stand for his motto or \"word\" of Soverayne. Many explanations are given of the origin of these letters, but none has as yet been established. During the reigns of Henry IV, his son (Henry V), and grandson (Henry VI), the collar of Esses was a royal badge of the Lancastrian house and party, the white swan, as in the Dunstable Swan Jewel, usually being its pendant.\n\nIn one of Henry VI's own collars the S was joined to the broomcod of the French device, symbolizing the king's claim to the two kingdoms. The kings of the house of York and their chief followers wore the Yorkist collar of suns and roses, with the white lion of March, the Clare bull, or Richard's white boar for a pendant device. Henry VIII brought back the collar of Esses, a portcullis or a Tudor rose hanging from it, although in a portrait of him, in the Society of Antiquaries, he wears the rose \"en soleil\" alternating with knots, and his son (later Edward VI), when young, had a collar of red and white roses. It was presented to ministers and courtiers, and came to represent more a symbol of office by the time of Elizabeth I.\n\nThe term \"Collar of SS\" was preferred by Victorian antiquaries. Since World War II, as \"SS\" is usually associated with the Schutzstaffel, the term is less often used because of its Nazi connotation.\n\nBesides these royal collars, the 14th and 15th centuries show many private devices. A monumental brass at Mildenhall shows a knight whose badge of a dog or wolf circled by a crown hangs from a collar with edges suggesting a pruned bough or the ragged staff. Thomas of Markenfield (d. c. 1415) on his brass at Ripon has a strange collar of park palings with a badge of a hart in a park, and Thomas de Berkeley, 5th Baron Berkeley (d. 1417) wears one set with mermaids, the Berkeley family heraldic badge.\n\nIn the Renaissance, gold chains tended to replace collars, and portrait miniature of the donor tended to replace the earlier badges with symbolic devices, although \"picture boxes\" containing miniatures could be highly extravagant pieces of jewellery. The Elizabethan artist Nicholas Hilliard was both a goldsmith and miniaturist, and so produced the whole of pieces like the \"Armada Jewel\", given by Queen Elizabeth I of England to a courtier. When the Earl of Rutland returned from an embassy to Denmark, sixteen members of his party were given chains of gold with the James I of England's picture, and others received just a picture. During the sixteenth century collars became marks of a specific office or Order, and subsequently remained so.\n\nMost British and Irish mayors wear a collar/chain of office, and new ones are still designed for new municipalities. The mayor's spouse may have a much smaller version. These are worn over normal clothes when on official duties. Following British practice, most Canadian, Australian and New Zealand mayors also wear chains of office. The custom also spread outside the Commonwealth, to Germany (originally only Prussia) in 1808, to the Netherlands by royal decree in 1852 and to Norway after the mayor of Oslo received one as a gift in 1950, and most Norwegian mayors now have mayoral chains.\n\nCollars of various devices are worn by the knights of some of the European orders of knighthood. The custom was begun by Philip III, Duke of Burgundy, who gave his knights of the Golden Fleece, badges of a golden fleece hung from a collar of flints, steels and sparks. Following this new fashion, Louis XI of France, when instituting his order of St. Michael in 1469, gave the knights collars of scallop shells linked on a chain.\n\nThe chain was doubled by Charles VIII, and the pattern suffered other changes before the order lapsed in 1830.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century most of the European orders had only one rank—that of Knight—and although they usually had collars the cross or badge was now worn on a ribbon around the neck or over the right shoulder. When the orders became more democratic several ranks were introduced and only the highest grade, the Grand Commanders or Grand Crosses, wore collars. The Netherlands never had collars but several Belgian, most of the Austrian and Prussian orders and several Portuguese orders had collars. In Portugal all the members of these orders of knighthood wore a collar but the collars of the Grand-crosses were more elaborate.\n\nIn England, until the reign of Henry VIII, the Order of the Garter, most ancient of the great knightly orders, had no collar. But the Tudor king must needs match in all things with continental sovereigns, and the present collar of the Garter knights, with its golden knots and its buckled garters enclosing white roses set on red roses, has its origin in the Tudor age.\n\nKnights of most of the British orders have collars which are worn on special occasions, but not the Knights Bachelor or holders of decorations such as the Distinguished Service Order, the Order of Merit, The Order of the Companions of Honour and the Imperial Service Order. The Royal Victorian Chain is a collar and there are no other insignia.\n\nIn France, Emperor Napoleon I introduced the \"Grand aigle\", a collar, as the highest rank in his Légion d'honneur. It did not survive his downfall.\n\nSometimes the collar is the insignia of office of the Grand Master of the order; the French president therefore wears the collar of the Order of the Légion d'honneur. In other countries such as Brazil the collar is a rank above that of a Grand Cross and it is reserved for the president and foreign heads of state.\n\nCollars also have a long history within Freemasonry. Collars are often worn by officers of high rank. Nearly all Grand Lodge officers wear collars as an emblem of their office. In history, many such collars are quite valuable, featuring gold and precious jewels. \n\nCollars vary widely among Masonic Grand Lodges. While those Lodges working under the Grand Lodge of England have fairly uniform designs, Grand Lodges in the United States vary widely, employing collars made from metal chains backed by velvet, to those made of velvet and embroidered with gold and silver bullion thread.\n\nToday, Lodge officers wear a cloth or fabric collar with a simple jewel of their office pendant to it. Each jewel represents a skill or virtue which he possesses and instructs the brothers of Masonry in. In some jurisdictions, these jewels are silver-plated for the Craft or Blue Lodges under 100 years old. In cases of Lodges over 100 years, these jewels are gold-plated. The collar shapes are identical which sit on the wearers shoulders and fall over the chest, ending in a point between the breasts. Except the Master's collar which is circular and far more elaborate in design signifying his skills and knowledge in the Craft are of the highest degree.\n\n\nWard, Matthew, \"The Livery Collar in Late Medieval England and Wales: Politics, Identity and Affinity\" (The Boydell Press: Woodbridge, 2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "53695277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53695277", "title": "Margaret Manion", "text": "Margaret Manion\n\nMargaret Mary Manion (born 7 March 1935) is an Australian art historian and curator recognised internationally for her scholarship on the art of the illuminated manuscript. She has published on Medieval and Renaissance liturgical and devotional works, in particular, on Books of Hours – the \"Wharncliffe Hours\", the \"Aspremont-Kievraing Hours\", the \"Très Riches Heures\". She was instrumental in cataloguing Medieval and Renaissance illuminated manuscripts in Australian and New Zealand collections. She was Herald Chair Professor of Fine Arts at the University of Melbourne from 1979 to 1995, also serving as Deputy Dean and Acting Dean in the Faculty of Arts, Associate Dean for Research, Pro-Vice-Chancellor from 1985 to 1988, and in 1987, the first woman to chair the University’s Academic Board.\n\nBorn in Nowra, New South Wales, Manion was educated at Loreto Convent, Normanhurst and subsequently became a member of the Loreto Sisters. She completed a Bachelor of Arts in Education and Masters degree at the University of Melbourne, writing her thesis on the \"Wharncliffe Hours\" in the National Gallery of Victoria (1962). She researched the frescoes of San Giovanni a Porta Latina in Rome for her doctoral dissertation (1972) under the supervision of Charles Mitchell (1912–1995) at Bryn Mawr College, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn the 1960s Manion worked as a teacher, then as Principal of Loreto Abbey Mary's Mount, Ballarat (now Loreto College, Victoria). Between 1972–1978 Manion was a lecturer at the University of Melbourne, designated the second Herald Chair Professor of Fine Arts at the University of Melbourne in 1979 (until 1995), the first woman to be appointed to an established Chair in the University. She also served as Deputy Dean and Acting Dean in the Faculty of Arts, Associate Dean for Research, and Pro-Vice-Chancellor from 1985 to 1988. She was the first woman to chair the Academic Board (1987–1988). Since 1995, Manion has been an Emeritus Professor, and currently also Visiting Scholar at Newman College (University of Melbourne). An international conference was held in her honour in 2001, with a \"festschrift\" published the following year.\n\nShe was a foundation member for Australia of the Comité International d'Histoire de l'Art; a foundation member of the Società di Storia della Miniatura, Italy; and served for two terms as Foreign Advisor to the International Center of Medieval Art, New York. She is a Life Member of the National Gallery of Victoria, was a member of the Council of Adult Education (1989–1994), the Arts Centre Melbourne Trust (1980–90), the Australia Council (1981–1984), and the Australian Tapestry Workshop, formerly the Victorian Tapestry Workshop (1992–2000).\n\nManion was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 1986. She is a Life Member of the National Gallery of Victoria and an honorary curator of its collection of Early Medieval and Renaissance Art. She was a trustee of the National Gallery of Victoria for fifteen years and its Deputy President (1984–1990). In 2004, she was appointed Trustee emeritus of the National Gallery of Victoria in recognition of her continuing contribution to the Gallery. In 1989, Manion was awarded the Order of Australia for her contribution to the arts and education. In 2001 she was awarded an Honorary doctorate from the University of Melbourne.\n\nTogether with Vera Vines and Christopher de Hamel, Manion produced the first census of Medieval and Renaissance manuscripts in Australia (in 1984) and in New Zealand (in 1989). Between 2009–2012 Manion led an Australian Research Council Linkage Project, in conjunction with Shane Carmondy, Bernard Muir and Toby Burrows, to create an on-line catalogue and digitisation of the twenty-seven manuscripts in the State Library of Victoria and other important collections in Victoria. This material subsequently was incorporated into the \"Europa Inventa\" database.\n\nIn 2005 she authored a scholarly study on the development of the illuminated book from the twelfth century to the advent of printing accompanied by detailed visual analysis of the \"Gospel Book of Theophanes\", the \"Aspremont-Kievraing Hours\", the \"Melbourne Livy\", the \"Wharncliffe Hours\", the \"Strozzi-Acciaioli Hours\" and a fragment of a \"Universal Chronicle\", all in the collection of the National Gallery of Victoria. Manion was guest curator of \"The Medieval Imagination\", an international exhibition at the State Library of Victoria between 28 March to 15 June 2008 of 91 illuminated manuscripts from Cambridge and British libraries and public collections in Australia and New Zealand, which attracted some 110,000 visitors.\n\nBooks and journals donated from Manion’s research library form the core of the Medieval and Renaissance (Early Modern) Manuscript Studies Collection established at the Allan & Maria Myers Academic Centre, serving the communities of St Mary's College and Newman College, University of Melbourne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "621357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621357", "title": "Massacre in the Great Temple of Tenochtitlan", "text": "Massacre in the Great Temple of Tenochtitlan\n\nThe Massacre in the Great Temple, also called the Alvarado Massacre, was an event on May 22, 1520, in the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan during the Spanish conquest of Mexico, in which the celebration of the Feast of Toxcatl ended in a massacre of Aztec elites.\n\nWhile Hernán Cortés was in Tenochtitlan, he heard about other Spaniards arriving on the coast – Pánfilo de Narváez had come from Cuba with orders to arrest him – and Cortés was forced to leave the city to fight them. During his absence, Moctezuma asked deputy governor Pedro de Alvarado for permission to celebrate Toxcatl (an Aztec festivity in honor of Tezcatlipoca, one of their main gods). But after the festivities had started, Alvarado interrupted the celebration, killing almost everyone present at the festival, men, women, and children alike. The few who managed to escape the massacre climbing over the walls proceeded to inform the community of the treacherous Spaniards' atrocity.\n\nThe Spanish version of the incident claims the conquistadors intervened to prevent a ritual of human sacrifice in the Templo Mayor; the Aztec version says the Spaniards were enticed into action by the gold the Aztecs were wearing, prompting an Aztec rebellion against the orders of Moctezuma. While differing so on Alvarado's specific motive, both accounts are in basic agreement that the celebrants were unarmed and that the massacre was without warning and unprovoked.\n\nThe Aztecs were already antagonistic towards the Spaniards for being inside their city and for holding Moctezuma under house arrest. When Cortez and his men, including those who had come under Narvaez, returned, the Aztecs began to commence full scale hostilities against the Spaniards. The Spaniards had no choice but to retreat from the city, which they did on what is called the Sad Night (La Noche Triste), losing most of their men, who were either killed in the battle or were captured and sacrificed. \n\nThis is part of the Aztec account:\n\nSpanish Historian Francisco López de Gómara's, who was never in the Americas, account:\n\n"}
{"id": "4080457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080457", "title": "Mohamed Harbi", "text": "Mohamed Harbi\n\nMohamed Harbi (born 1933) is an Algerian historian who was a member of the FLN during the Algerian War of Independence.\n\nMohamed Harbi was born in 1933 into a wealthy family in El Harrouch, Algeria. At the age of 15, he joined the FLN. According to his later memoirs, Harbi lived underground in France and gathered support for the Algerian independence. 1954-1962 he was in a prominent position in the FLN.\n\nAfter the Algerian War of Independence, he became an advisor to new president, Ahmed Ben Bella and later a member of his cabinet. According to his memoirs, Harbi tried to resist the increasingly authoritarian approach of the new government and urged Ben Bella to arm the people to avert a military coup.\n\nIn June 1965 Houari Boumedienne seized power and arrested Ben Bella. Two months later Harbi was also imprisoned. For the next six years he was transferred between prisons until he was placed in house arrest in 1971. In 1973 he escaped to Tunisia with a false Turkish passport and from there moved to Paris.\n\nIn France, Harbi began to teach political science in the University of Paris. \n\nDuring his house arrest, Harbi had begun to write the history of the independence movement and in 1975 published a book \"The history of FLN\". His inside view of the movement was not the one FLN cherished and he began to receive death threats from three sides; Algerian secret police, Algerian Islamic militants and French ultra nationalists.\n\nCurrently Harbi lives in Paris, retired from the university. The first part of his memoirs was published in 2003. \n\n"}
{"id": "3774157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3774157", "title": "Nataliia Polonska-Vasylenko", "text": "Nataliia Polonska-Vasylenko\n\nNataliia Polonska-Vasylenko (; 12 February 1884 in Kharkiv – 8 June 1973 in Dornstadt, near Ulm, West Germany) was one of the foremost Ukrainian historians of the 20th century. She was a wife of the Ukrainian academician of history and statesman Mykola Vasylenko.\n\nPolonska-Vasylenko studied history under Mitrofan Dovnar-Zapol'skiy at Kiev University and from 1912 was a member of the Kiev-based Historical Society of Nestor the Chronicler. From 1916, she was a lecturer at Kiev University and Director of its archeological museum. During the 1920s, the most liberal years of Soviet rule, she was a professor at the Kiev Institutes of Geography, Archeology, and Art, and a Research Associate at the All-Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (VUAN). She witnessed, but survived the Joseph Stalin purges of the 1930s and was a member of the reorganized and Sovietized academy from 1937 to 1941. In 1940, she received her doctorate and became a professor at Kiev University. During the German occupation, she directed the Kiev Central Archive of Old Documents and worked in Kiev City Administration, was responsible for renaming of streets and consulted Kiev Archive Museum of Transitional Period (dedicated to achievements of German occupation and crimes of Communists). As the tide of the war turned against the Germans, she fled west, first to Lviv, then to Prague, and finally to Bavaria. She was a Professor at the Ukrainian Free University in Prague (1944–45), and moved together with this institution to Munich where she continued to teach until her death in 1973. In the 1960s, she took an active part in the establishment of the American-Based Ukrainian Historical Association and was its Vice-president from 1965.\n\nPolonska-Vasylenko was a specialist in Ukrainian archeology, the history of Kievan Rus', the later history of the Zaporozhian Cossacks, and the history of her own times. She also wrote extensively on modern Ukrainian historiography.\n\nBefore the First World War, she participated in the compilation and writing of a large Russian cultural history atlas which was published in three volumes between 1913 and 1914. During the 1920s, she published extensively in the various periodicals of the Ukrainian Academy on the Zaporozhian Cossacks and the transformation and absorption of southern Ukraine into the Russian Empire during the reigns of Catherine the Great and her predecessors.\n\nDuring the Cold War, deprived of the use of the archives of her native land, Polonska-Vasylenko collected and reprinted many of her earlier studies on Zaporozhia (1965–67), wrote several memoirs of intellectual life in revolutionary and Soviet Ukraine including a history of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (2 vols. 1955-58), published a book on the Stalin repressions of Ukrainian historians (1962), and turned increacingly toward synthesis, at the end of her career, publishing a volume on Ukrainian historiography (1971) and a two volume general history of Ukraine (1973–1976).\n\nIn her general approach to Ukrainian history, Polonska-Vasylenko followed the lead of her distinguished emigre predecessor, Dmytro Doroshenko, and wrote in a conservative vain, stressing the importance of the Cossack officer class and the Ukrainian gentry into which they were later transformed. She saw the strivings of this class for national unity and independence, or, at least autonomy, as one of the main currents of Ukrainian history, and she characterized the nineteenth century as a time of Russian and Austrian occupation. She ended her general history with the advent of Soviet rule.\n\nThrough her teaching at the Ukrainian Free University and her many publications, Polonska-Vasylenko influenced several younger Ukrainian historians in the west, especially the founder of the Ukrainian Historical Association, Lubomyr Wynar. After the proclamation of Ukrainian independence in 1991 and the subsequent growth of intellectual freedom, her major works, including her history of the Ukrainian Academy and her general history of Ukraine were reprinted in her homeland where she finally became widely known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312976", "title": "Nüwa", "text": "Nüwa\n\nNüwa or Nügua is the mother goddess of Chinese mythology, the sister and wife of Fuxi, the emperor-god. She is credited with creating mankind and repairing the Pillar of Heaven. Her reverential name is Wahuang ().\n\nThe \"Huainanzi\" relates Nüwa to the time when Heaven and Earth were in disruption: \n\nThe catastrophes were supposedly caused by the battle between the deities Gonggong and Zhuanxu (an event that was mentioned earlier in the \"Huainanzi\"), the five-colored stones symbolize the five Chinese elements (wood, fire, earth, metal, and water), the black dragon was the essence of water and thus cause of the floods, Ji Province serves metonymically for the central regions (the Sinitic world). Following this, the \"Huainanzi\" tells about how the sage-rulers Nüwa and Fuxi set order over the realm by following the Way (道) and its potency (德).\n\nThe \"Classic of Mountains and Seas\", dated between the Warring States period and the Han Dynasty, describes Nüwa's intestines as being scattered into ten spirits.\n\nIn \"Liezi\" (c. 475 – 221 BC), Chapter 5 \"Questions of Tang\" (), author Lie Yukou describes Nüwa repairing the original imperfect heaven using five-colored stones, and cutting the legs off a tortoise to use as struts to hold up the sky.\n\nIn \"Songs of Chu\" (c. 340 – 278 BC), Chapter 3 \"Asking Heaven\" (), author Qu Yuan writes that Nüwa molded figures from the yellow earth, giving them life and the ability to bear children. After demons fought and broke the pillars of the heavens, Nüwa worked unceasingly to repair the damage, melting down the five-coloured stones to mend the heavens.\n\nIn \"Shuowen Jiezi\" (c. 58 – 147 AD), China's earliest dictionary, under the entry for Nüwa author Xu Shen describes her as being both the sister and the wife of Fuxi. Nüwa and Fuxi were pictured as having snake-like tails interlocked in an Eastern Han Dynasty mural in the Wuliang Temple in Jiaxiang county, Shandong province.\n\nIn \"Duyi Zhi\" (; c. 846 – 874 AD), Volume 3, author Li Rong gives this description.\nIn \"Yuchuan Ziji\" ( c. 618 – 907 AD), Chapter 3 (), author Lu Tong describes Nüwa as the wife of Fuxi.\n\nIn \"Siku Quanshu\", Sima Zhen (679–732) provides commentary on the prologue chapter to Sima Qian's \"Shiji\", \"Supplemental to the Historic Record: History of the Three August Ones,\" wherein it is found that the Three August Ones are Nüwa, Fuxi, and Shennong; Fuxi and Nüwa have the same last name, Feng (; Hmong: Faj).\n\nIn the collection \"Four Great Books of Song\" (c. 960 – 1279 AD), compiled by Li Fang and others, Volume 78 of the book \"Imperial Readings of the Taiping Era\" contains a chapter \"Customs by Yingshao of the Han Dynasty\" in which it is stated that there were no men when the sky and the earth were separated. Thus Nüwa used yellow clay to make people. But the clay was not strong enough so she put ropes into the clay to make the bodies erect. It is also said that she prayed to gods to let her be the goddess of marital affairs. Variations of this story exist.\n\nNüwa is featured within the famed Ming dynasty novel \"Fengshen Bang\". As featured within this novel, Nüwa is very highly respected since the time of the Xia Dynasty for being the daughter of the Jade Emperor; Nüwa is also regularly called the \"Snake Goddess\". After the Shang Dynasty had been created, Nüwa created the five-colored stones to protect the dynasty with occasional seasonal rains and other enhancing qualities. Thus in time, Shang Rong asked King Zhou of Shang to pay her a visit as a sign of deep respect. After Zhou was completely overcome with lust at the very sight of the beautiful ancient goddess Nüwa (who had been sitting behind a light curtain), he would write a small poem on a neighboring wall and take his leave. When Nüwa later returned to her temple after visiting the Yellow Emperor, Nüwa would see the foulness of Zhou's words. In her anger, she swore that the Shang Dynasty would end in payment for his foulness. In her rage, Nüwa would personally ascend to the palace in an attempt to kill the king, but was suddenly struck back by two large beams of red light.\n\nAfter Nüwa realized that King Zhou was already destined to rule the kingdom for twenty-six more years, Nüwa would summon her three subordinates—the Thousand-Year Vixen (later becoming Daji), the Jade Pipa, and the Nine-Headed Pheasant. With these words, Nüwa would bring destined chaos to the Shang Dynasty, \"The luck Cheng Tang won six hundred years ago is dimming. I speak to you of a new mandate of heaven which sets the destiny for all. You three are to enter King Zhou's palace, where you are to bewitch him. Whatever you do, do not harm anyone else. If you do my bidding, and do it well, you will be permitted to reincarnate as human beings.\" Thus, with these words, Nüwa would never be heard of again, but would still be a major indirect factor towards the Shang Dynasty's fall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411667", "title": "Offenbach am Main", "text": "Offenbach am Main\n\nOffenbach am Main () is a city in Hesse, Germany, located on the left bank of the river Main and part of the Frankfurt Rhein-Main urban area. Offenbach has a population of 126,934.\n\nIn the 20th century the city's economy was dominated by the machine-building and leather industries, and it was also a major centre of the typography and design industries. Other important industries are the automobile and pharmaceutical industries. During the Second World War the city suffered heavily from bombing by the Allied Forces. More than half of the city's population have a non-German background, with Turks, former Yugoslavs, Arabs, Italians, Greeks and Poles as major groups.\n\nThe inner town of Offenbach is quite large and has only a few suburbs. In the east the three incorporated: Bürgel (incorporated 1908), Bieber (incorporated April 1, 1938), and Rumpenheim (incorporated April 4, 1942). In the south are the newer suburbs Lauterborn and Rosenhöhe, Tempelsee, the office town Kaiserlei and the industrial area Waldheim. The newest suburb is Mathildenviertel in the center near to the Main river.\n\nThe first documented reference to a suburb of Offenbach appears in 770. In a document of the Holy Roman Emperor Otto II dating to 977 exists the first mention of the place of Offenbach. During the Middle Ages Offenbach passed through many hands. Only in 1486 could the Count Ludwig of Isenburg finally take control of city for his family, and 1556 Count Reinhard of Isenburg relocated his Residence to Offenbach, building a palace, the Isenburger Schloß (Isenburg Palace), which was completed in 1559. It was destroyed by fire in 1564 and rebuilt in 1578.\n\nIn 1635 Offenbach given to the Landgraves of Hesse-Darmstadt but it was returned to the Isenburg-Birstein Count (later Prince) in 1642 and remained in that Principality until 1815 when the Congress of Vienna gave the city to the Austrian Emperor, Francis I. A year later it was given to the Grand Duchy of Hesse-Darmstadt.\n\nAlways very close to the city centre of Frankfurt, Offenbach was a popular location for business. The town has its own trade fair, and many companies have opened facilities here because there are fewer restrictions and no closed businesses. French Protestants (Huguenots) came in the 17th century and settled in Offenbach and contributed to making Offenbach a prosperous city, e.g., bringing knowledge of tobacco with them and turning Offenbach into a centre for rolling cigars. The town was more cosmopolitan than Frankfurt; famous people such as Goethe and Mozart visited it several times.\n\nThe Rumpenheim Palace and its park were a popular destination for monarchs in the 19th century. The city was thereafter ruled by Grand Dukes of Hesse and by Rhine until the monarchy was abolished in 1918. Offenbach became the center of the traditional design with figures such as the architect Hugo Eberhardt, the typographer Rudolf Koch, the bookbinder and designer Ignatz Wiemeler and Ernst Engel and the painter Karl Friedrich Lippmann.\n\nDuring the Second World War a third of the city was destroyed by Allied bombing, which claimed 467 lives. With the new district Lauterborn the city was expanded to the south in the 1960s. On the border with Frankfurt, the office district Kaiserlei was built.\nOffenbach is a so-called ´Sozialer Brennpunkt`(= multiple social problems area) because of unemployment, poverty, gang related crime and migration.\n\n\nOffenbach am Main is twinned with:\n\nOffenbach has a large non-German population. In 2016, foreign nationals made up 37% of the population. The largest communities are, in that order, from Turkey, Greece, Romania, Poland and Italy. According to census data Offenbach and Duisburg had the highest share of Muslim migrants of all German districts in 2011.\n\nUntil the end of the 17th century, Offenbach remained a small town with less than a thousand habitants. With the coming into power of the count Johann Philipp in 1685, the city began to develop and the population rose steadily. In the 19th century the city became industrialized and the population increased even tenfold. \nOffenbach is one of the German cities where Germans without migrant background make up a minority of the population. As of 31 December 2012, approx. 44.3% of residents or 55,047 people had no foreign background. In contrast to that, there were 55.7% or 69,214 people of non-German descent. The largest of those groups are:\n\nTurks: 15,000 or 12.2%\n\nPeople from the former Yugoslavia (e.g. Serbs, Croats): 13,000 or 10.5%\n\nArabs: 8,000 or 6.5%\n\nItalians: 8,000 or 6.5%\n\nGreeks: 7,500 or 6.0%\n\nPoles: 4,000 or 3.2%\n\nAfghans: 3,600 or 3%\n\nPakistanis: 2,700 or 2.2%\n\nUntil the early 1970s Offenbach was dominated by the machine-building and leather industries. The city hosts the German Association for Electrical, Electronic and Information Technologies to this day. The Deutscher Wetterdienst, commonly abbreviated as DWD, (translated from German as German Meteorological Service), residing in the Westend district.\n\nOffenbach was also the European center of typography, with Gebr. Klingspor and Linotype (inventors of Optima or Palatino typeface) moving to nearby Eschborn in the 1970s and MAN Roland printing machines still a major employer today. Typography and design still remain important with a cluster of graphic design and industrial design companies, as well as the university level Hochschule für Gestaltung Offenbach am Main (HfG) design school and the Klingspor Museum.\n\nIn recent years Offenbach has become a popular location for a wide array of services, especially from the transport sectors. Offenbach is the host to the European headquarters of Honda, Hyundai Motors and Kumho Tires.\n\nIn Offenbach there is no specific Old Town, but there are several buildings which survived bombing during the war and have been restored. One of them is the Neo-baroque palace \"Büsingpalais\" with the Büsingpark, reconstructed in the 1980s. Today it is used as a congress center close to the Sheraton hotel. Between the shopping area and the Main, is the \"Lilipark\" and the \"Lilitemple\", named after Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's fiancée Lili Schönemann. The most important building is the \"\" (Isenburg Palace), a renaissance palace from 1576. It is today used by the Offenbach Design University which is next to it. There is also a neoclassic palace in the borough Rumpenheim, the \"Rumpenheimer Schloss\" it now serves exclusively as domestic dwellings but the park is public.\n\n\nThere are several festivals in Offenbach, some of these are:\n\n\nOffenbach hosts the German association football club Kickers Offenbach. The club was founded in 1901.\n\nThe streets of central Offenbach are usually congested with cars during the rush hour. Some areas, especially around the shopping streets, are pedestrian-only streets. There are numerous car parks located throughout the city. The Offenbacher Kreuz is an Autobahn interchange where the Autobahnen A 3 (Cologne-Würzburg) and A 661 meet. The A661 crosses the A 3 (Cologne-Würzburg) and A 5 (Basel-Hannover).\n\nThe city is connected by a major line of the S-Bahn railway system to Frankfurt. The station in the city center is \"Marktplatz\". In general, six stations are located in Offenbach: \"Offenbach-Kaiserlei, Offenbach-Ledermuseum, Offenbach-Marktplatz, Offenbach-Ost, Offenbach-Bieber, Offenbach-Waldhof\". Trains run every 5–10 minutes between Offenbach and Frankurt. A 24 hours Service between both cities was introduced in 2013. The journey from Offenbach Marktplatz to Frankfurt Main Station takes 15 minutes, Frankfurt Airport can be reached within 26 minutes. The city's public transportation services OVB and NIO connect all city districts to downtown by bus lines. Since the construction of the S-Bahn, the central train station, the Offenbach Hauptbahnhof, is no longer considered important.\n\nThe city is accessed from around the world via the Frankfurt Airport, (Flughafen Frankfurt am Main) which is located from Offenbach. The airport can be reached by car or bus and has two train stations, one for regional and one for long-distance traffic. The S-Bahn lines S8 and S9 (direction \"Offenbach Ost or \"Hanau\"), departing from the regional traffic station, take 25 minutes from the airport to get to Offenbach.\n\nNotable people born in Offenbach include:\n\n\n\nOthers who have resided in Offenbach include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10761632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10761632", "title": "Piers Brendon", "text": "Piers Brendon\n\nPiers Brendon (born 21 December 1940) is a British writer, known for historical and biographical works. He was educated at Shrewsbury School and Magdalene College, Cambridge, where he read history. He earned a Ph.D. degree with his thesis, \"Hurrell Froude and the Oxford Movement\", which was published, with much modification, in 1974.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1978, he was lecturer in history, then principal lecturer and head of department, at what is now Anglia Ruskin University. From 1979 onwards he has worked as a free-lance writer of books, journalism and for television. From 1995 he has been a fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge and was keeper of the Churchill Archives Centre from 1995 to 2001, taking over from Correlli Barnett. He was succeeded by Allen Packwood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1099564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099564", "title": "Protasis", "text": "Protasis\n\nIn drama, a protasis is the introductory part of a play, usually its first act. The term was coined by the fourth-century Roman grammarian Aelius Donatus. He defined a play as being made up of three separate parts, the other two being epitasis and catastrophe. In modern dramatic theory the term dramatic arc has substantially the same meaning, though with slightly different divisions.\n"}
{"id": "15213054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15213054", "title": "Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Serapio (consul 111 BC)", "text": "Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Serapio (consul 111 BC)\n\nPublius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Serapio (b. c. 153 BCE), son of Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Serapio, was a Praetor in 118 BCE and a Consul in 111 BCE. He was the maternal great-grandson of Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus. He was married to Caecilia Metella, daughter of Quintus Caecilius Metellus Macedonicus.\n\nHe had two children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34295320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34295320", "title": "Ramón Meza y Suárez Inclán", "text": "Ramón Meza y Suárez Inclán\n\nRamón Meza y Suárez Inclán (born January 28, 1861—1911), was a Cuban literary critic, historian, professor and Doctor in Philosophy and Literature at the University of Havana, and also author of many works of both fiction and non-fiction.\n\nWhen he was 17 years of age, he enrolled in the University of Havana, where he majored in 1882 in Civil Law.\n\nTwo years later, his first literary reviews were published. He contributed extensively to the periodicals \"La lotería\", to \"Revista de Cuba\", and \"Cuba en América\".\n\nIn July 7, 1900, he was appointed Subsecretary of Justice, filling in the position for Alfredo Zayas y Alfonso.\n\nA month later, in August 17, 1900, he resigned the position to which he had been appointed, and was replaced by Gastón Mora y Varona.\n\nIn 1900, he wrote an article for the faculty at the University of Havana titled \"Don Quijote como tipo ideal\" (), in which he paid tribute to Cervante's masterpiece \"Don Quijote de la Mancha\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20140100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20140100", "title": "Representation of women in Athenian tragedy", "text": "Representation of women in Athenian tragedy\n\nThe representation of women in Athenian tragedy was performed exclusively by men and it is likely (although the evidence is not conclusive) that it was performed solely for men as well.\n\nIn a society that valued women’s silence, their predominance in the most public of Athenian art-forms constitutes a paradox. Only one of the surviving 32 plays has no female characters: Sophocles' \"Philoctetes\". Female tragic choruses also outnumber the male choruses by twenty-one to ten.\n\nMacaria, in the \"Heracleidae\" states that \"for a woman, silence and self control are best.\" The philosopher Xenophon thought females possessed the positive traits of 'vigilance' and 'love for infants'. However Xenophon reflects the Greek fear of these 'others', highlighting their irrationality, religious fervour and sexual passion. Aristotle went further, stating that women were deformed, incomplete males, designed to be subservient to men.\n\nAs a result, women had their freedom restricted and were believed to have lived in separate areas to men. In a speech recorded in the Lysias Orations 3.6, a speaker seeks to convey his opponent’s licentiousness by telling how he trespassed into \"the women’s rooms where my sister and my nieces were – women who have always lived so decently that they are ashamed to be seen even by relatives.\" Sheila Murnaghan argues that \"it is no accident that what little evidence we do have for actual Athenian women comes largely from courtroom speeches or medical treatises, genres brought into being by conflict and disease.\"\n\nIn Ancient Greece, a woman was viewed as a passive conduit of male fertility, on long term loan by her father. Marriage was an unequal relationship, whereby the husband owned the children and didn’t have the same obligation toward sexual fidelity that the wife had. \nThe playwright Euripides presents two very different reactions to this cultural norm. Firstly, his female protagonist Alcestis, represents the \"perfect wife\" sacrificing her own life, so her husband, Admetos, can live. Yet as Blondell points out this \"female fame is hard won, even oxymoronic\" as her own marriage kills her.\n\nThe most important relationships within this play are between the men. Heracles goes to the underworld not for Alcestis, but to honour his male friend’s hospitality. Admetos goes against the promise he made to his wife, so as to obey his male friendship. \"Alcestis drops out,\" Easterling argues, \"to facilitate the interaction between the men.\"\n\nIn contrast, however, Euripides Medea breaks the marital conventions, choosing her husband herself and reacting against his infidelity by breaking the female oath and killing her children. \"In a sense,\" Blondell argues, \"every bride was a stranger in a strange land. And every married woman was dependent on her husband.\"\n\nIn the surviving plays, women become tragic figures by men’s absence or mismanagement.\n\nSophocles' Antigone takes action after her uncle Creon refuses to bury her brother Polynices. In Aeschylus' \"Oresteia\", Clytemnestra takes power in Argos because her husband Agamemnon has been away fighting at Troy for ten years. Clytemnestra's later murder of him is motivated by a range of male abuses. Medea becomes the aggressor when her husband Jason plans a new more advantageous marriage.\n\nThere is also a theme running through the plays based on the setting. Performed in open-air theatres, Classical Athenian tragedy was set outside the private sphere of the home. Indeed, Euripides was notorious for \"taking the streets, the bedroom, into tragedy\" and thereby reducing its remoteness.\n\nIn \"Hippolytus\", Phaedra first appears, carried out of the house by her servants, demanding open air, in order to declare her love for her stepson and thus the spiral of tragedy to unwind. In Aeschylus' \"Oresteia\", Clytemnestra in the first play of the trilogy orders her husband's death outside, while in the second play, her son Orestes forces her into the house to be killed. It is only in the third play, which is in an entirely public space of the court of Areopagus, that order is restored. \"This three play sequence,\" Bushnell argues, \"which begins when a self-willed woman takes matters into her own hands, finally achieves closure as figures representing women are removed from view.'\n\nA woman displaying traits of the heroic Grecian male was not portrayed in a positive light. Euripides' Medea is the prime example. Her name in Greek means \"cunning\" and is also the word for the Persians (the Greek’s greatest foreign enemy).\n\nMost of the time, a woman is full of fear<br>\nToo weak to defend herself or to bear the sight of steel <br>\nBut if she happens to be wronged in love,<br>\nHers is the bloodthirstiest heart of all.\n\nRuby Blondell argues that Medea displays stereotypically male attributes that the Greeks held as positive. Possessing courage, intelligence, decisiveness, resourcefulness, power, independence, the ability to conceive and carry out a plan effectively, as well as the art of rhetoric. The nurse even likens her to a rock of the sea, as Patroclus famously does to Homer’s Achilles in the epic poem \"The Iliad\". Yet Medea, similarly to Aeschylus’ Clytemnestra, another \"woman with a heart of manly counsel\" were not admired but portrayed as \"Cruella de Vil\" type characters.\n\nSo the declaration \"that a noble man ought either to live with honour, or die with honour\" does not apply to women.\n\nIn Plato’s Republic, Socrates thought the impersonation of inferiors, such as women and slaves, that drama utilised was morally harmful. Socrates was also worried \"about the ethical damage caused by the representation of 'womanish' emotions in tragedy.\" Plato unsurprisingly excludes poetry, embodied by the figure of a woman, from his ideal city-state.\n\nThe Athenians however thought it important to place on \"display those feature[s] of human experience that inspire terror, sorrow and rejection, and they accomplished their mission by giving women visibility and a powerful voice.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37712711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37712711", "title": "Saeed Bhutta", "text": "Saeed Bhutta\n\nMuhammad Saeed Khawar (born 14 August 1966) better known by his pen name, Saeed Bhutta, is a prominent oral historian of the Punjab in Pakistan. He currently serving as Professor of Punjabi language and literature at Oriental College, University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan. He has published numerous books of folktales, folklore, and folksongs. His research papers have been published in scholarly journals.\nHe received his M.A. from University of the Punjab, Lahore. Before Joining University of the Punjab as lecturer in 1994, he served as a research scholar at Pakistan Punjabi Adbi Board, Lahore. At the Board, he benefitted from the supervision of Muhammad Asif Khan, a renowned linguist, researcher and critic of Punjabi literature.\n\nBorn on 14 of August, 1966 in Pipple Bhutta, a small village in Chiniot, Jhang district, Punjab to Mian Muhammad Bukhsh. He received his Ph.D from the University of the Punjab in 2003. His research interests included pre-colonial Punjab, oral history, culture and language of the Punjab. His primary contribution was in the field of folk literature. Many volumes of folktales collected, compiled, and edited by him were published during the last two decades. Literary critics positively reviewed his collections of folk stories entitled Kamal Kahani, Nabar Kahani, Bar Kahani and Raj Kahani. His early works included edited volumes of critical essays Sanjh Wichar and Sanjh Surat.\n\nin March 2010, Saeed Bhutta was selected as Professor of Punjabi at Oriental College University of the Punjab Lahore.Bhutta lately focused his research work on legends and epics of Punjab and published the first volume of his work in this series entitled ‘Des Diyan Vaaran’. Earlier, he had edited a book of folksongs which were collected during his field research from Chiniot district. He has also written short fiction and has published a collection of short stories.\n\nHis important contribution had been in the field of folk literature. His research highlighted the resistance of residents of Punjab against European, Central Asian and Middle Eastern invaders. Contrary to the so-called scholarship of the western Punjab, he brought to light the secular culture of the Punjab and its distinctive features like resistance, hospitality and social justice.\n\nUnlike the imagined picture of the Punjab portrayed in the Persian and English writings, the folk tales collected as a result of his field work depicted a different character and culture of Punjab. In the folktales collected by him, one finds the sensation of sharing a sophisticated culture and a higher level of commitment to the cause of social justice displayed by characters.\n\nMost of writings on pre-colonial Punjab were in Persian and published from Delhi, Lahore, and Multan. In those writings, references to Bars of Punjab (areas between rivers of Punjab) and Punjabi folk literature were conspicuous by their absence. Because of a particular tradition of history writing promoted by foreign rulers, it became important to have a closer look at Punjab’s culture, identity, and value system in the light of primary sources like folktales, folklore and oral history.\n\nBhutta has opened a new door for sociologists and historians of Punjab by introducing them to a new wealth of authentic material on social structure and value system of pre-colonial Punjab. His research findings have made it possible for us to break into the Punjab of medieval ages from natives’ point of view. His research work on folk literature of Punjab has added an altogether new dimension to the anthropological, sociological, historical and cultural studies of pre-colonial Punjab.\nHe is devoted to his culture and this motivates him to work on the classical poetry, Folklore, Varan and the oral literature of Jhang. He has introduced many prominent personalities of Jhang and has highlighted their achievements. His works are regularly published in Pakistan and abroad. He is the son of the soil in true sense.\n\nIn Punjab, and among the circles of Punjabi academia, these folk tales have been reviewed as a major contribution to the cultural studies of Punjab. The fascinating language of these folk tales had a positive impact on contemporary Punjabi fiction and poetry. Many contemporary creative minds found it natural to express themselves in the diction and the idiom that had roots in the collective memory of the land and was preserved by Saeed Bhutta in such a professional manner.\nHe has supervised 11 Doctorate theses, and almost 50 theses of Master of Punjabi are written under his supervision. His more than 40 research articles are published in renowned local and international Journals of Punjabi language and literature and 20 in the HEC's(Higher Education Commission of Pakistan)approved research Journals. He is also included in the list of approved PhD supervisors of HEC Islamabad, Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2582389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2582389", "title": "Stan Gooch", "text": "Stan Gooch\n\nStan Gooch (born 1932 in Lewisham, London, died 13 September 2010) was a British psychologist and author who is probably best known as the proponent of a \"hybrid-origin theory\" of human evolution.\n\nGooch's first book \"Total Man\" (1972) was an attempt to examine all fields of interest relevant to humans today. On the back cover of the American print of \"Total Man\" Stan Gooch states:\n\nIn various chapters of \"Total Man\" Gooch outlined what would become the basis of his theories when he showed that phenomena can be divided into two columns, which he titled System A and System B, later associated with Cro-Magnon and Neanderthal lineage, respectively. These could be roughly equated to Freud's Ego and Id, and in some ways Carl Jung's Male and Female principles.\n\n\"Total Man\" was followed by \"Personality and Evolution\" (1973) and \"The Neanderthal Question\" (1977).\nIn these books, Gooch develops what would become known as the \"hybrid-origin theory\". The theory as represented in\n\" Guardians of the Ancient Wisdom\" (1979) can be outlined as follows:\n\nGooch continued to develop the theory during the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s in \"Cities of Dreams\" (1989, 1995),\nand \"The Neanderthal Legacy\" (2008).\n\nIn \"The Paranormal\" (1978), Gooch reveals that prior to obtaining a degree in psychology, in his mid-twenties, he had been trained as a medium. The book in a first part deals with his own paranormal experiences and those of his acquaintances and in a second part presents a theoretical examination of the paranormal.\n\nIn \"The Double Helix of the Mind\" (1980), Gooch criticizes the hemisphere model of the human brain.\nGooch develops the theory that the cerebellum, rather than the right hemisphere of the brain, is responsible for dreaming, creativity and paranormal experience.\n\nGooch's theories have generally been dismissed by academia. In his book \"Right Hand, Left Hand: The Origins of Asymmetry in Brains, Bodies, Atoms and Cultures\", Chris McManus, a psychologist at University College London, has described Stan Gooch's ideas about the origins of left-handedness as \"myths\", stating that they lack any supporting evidence. Thinker and novelist Colin Wilson, on the other hand, argues that Gooch's work forms \"one of the most impressive and exciting intellectual structures of the second half of the twentieth century.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5517335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5517335", "title": "Sylvanus Morley", "text": "Sylvanus Morley\n\nSylvanus Griswold Morley (June 7, 1883September 2, 1948) was an American archaeologist, epigrapher, and Mayanist scholar who made significant contributions toward the study of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization in the early 20th century.\n\nMorley made extensive excavations of the Maya site of Chichen Itza that he directed on behalf of the Carnegie Institution. He also published several large compilations and treatises on Maya hieroglyphic writing, and wrote popular accounts on the Maya for a general audience.\n\nTo his contemporaries, \"Vay\" Morley was one of the leading Mesoamerican archaeologists of his day. Although more recent developments in the field have resulted in a re-evaluation of his theories and works, his publications, particularly on calendric inscriptions, are still cited. In his role as director of various projects sponsored by the Carnegie Institution, he oversaw and encouraged many others who later established notable careers in their own right. His commitment and enthusiasm for Maya studies helped inspire the necessary sponsorship for projects that would ultimately reveal much about ancient Maya civilization.\n\nMorley also conducted espionage in Mexico on behalf of the United States during World War I, but the scope of those activities only came to light well after his death. His archaeological field work in Mexico and Central America provided suitable cover for investigating German activities and anti-American activity at the behest of the United States' Office of Naval Intelligence.\n\nMorley was born in Chester, Pennsylvania, the eldest of six children. His father, Colonel Benjamin F. Morley, was at the time vice-president and professor of chemistry, mathematics and tactics at Pennsylvania Military College (PMC). His mother Sarah also had a connection with the college, where her father Felix de Lannoy had been a professor of Modern Languages. Felix (Sylvanus' maternal grandfather) was an immigrant to the United States from newly independent Belgium, where his father had been a judge in the Belgian Supreme Court.\n\nHis family moved to Colorado when Sylvanus was ten years old, and his secondary education was completed at Buena Vista and Colorado Springs. It was during his later schooling in Colorado that Morley first developed an interest in archaeology, and in particular Egyptology. However his father—a man trained in the hard sciences and who had graduated at the top of his class in civil engineering at PMC—was initially unsupportive of his ambitions. Seeing little scope for employment opportunities in archaeology, the Colonel encouraged his son to study engineering instead. Sylvanus duly enrolled in a civil engineering degree at PMC, graduating in 1904.\n\nNonetheless immediately upon graduating from PMC Sylvanus got his wish, and was able to attend Harvard University in pursuit of an undergraduate degree in archaeology. The focus of his studies at Harvard shifted from Ancient Egypt to the pre-Columbian Maya, at the encouragement of Peabody Museum director F. W. Putnam and the young Alfred Tozzer, a recently appointed professor at Harvard's Anthropology department. Morley's interest in the Maya may have stirred even earlier than this, according to his student contemporary at Harvard and later colleague Alfred V. Kidder. The 1895 novel \"Heart of the World\" by H. Rider Haggard, based on tales of the \"lost cities\" of Central America, was a particular favorite of the young Morley.\n\nMorley graduated with an A.B. in American Research from Harvard in 1907. His first field trip to Mexico and Yucatán was in January of the same year, when he visited and explored several Maya sites, including Acanceh, Xtocche, Labna, Kabah, Uxmal, Zayil, Kiuic, and Mayapan. He spent several weeks at Chichen Itza as a guest of Edward Thompson, where he assisted with the dredging of the Cenote Sagrado. On his return trip to the US he carried with him artifacts taken from the cenote, to be deposited at Harvard's Peabody Museum.\n\nIn the summer of 1907, Morley went to work for the School of American Archaeology (SAA) in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where for two months he undertook fieldwork in the American Southwest. Here he studied the sites and architecture of the ancient Pueblo peoples (Anasazi). His contemporaries in this work included the noted artist Georgia O'Keeffe. Morley made some significant contributions to the definition of a particular \"Santa Fe\" style of pre-Columbian architecture.\n\nAfter the assignment Morley went to work permanently for the SAA, and over the next several years alternated his fieldwork assignments between the Southwest, and Mexico and Central America. Morley completed a Master of Arts degree at Harvard, awarded in 1908.\n\nIn 1912, at the urging of executive committee member William Barclay Parsons, the Carnegie Institution announced it would fund a department of anthropology. In December the board announced it was seeking proposals for an appropriate project; three proposals were submitted, including one from Morley to explore and excavate Chichen Itza.\n\nThe Institution approved Morley's proposal in December 1913 and one month later hired him to direct the project, but instability in Yucatán (an aftershock of the Mexican Revolution) and the World War, among other factors, would postpone action on the proposal for a decade. Excavation work at Chichen Itza did not begin until the 1923–24 field season.\n\nWhile the Chichen Itza project was on hold, Morley conducted several expeditions in Mexico and Central America on behalf of the Carnegie Institution. He also published his first major work, \"An Introduction to the Study of Maya Hieroglyphs\" (1915).\n\nDuring the First World War (1914–1918), Morley gathered intelligence about and reported on the movements of German operatives in the region, information in which the U.S. Government had a keen interest. According to subsequent investigations, Morley was one of a number of ONI operatives working in the region under the guise of conducting scholarly research. Their mission was to seek out evidence of pro-German and anti-American agitation in the Mexico-Central America region and to look for secret German submarine bases (which proved non-existent). Morley's archaeological work provided a ready excuse to travel the countryside armed with photographic equipment, and he himself traveled more than 2,000 miles (over 3,200 km) along the coastlines of Central America in search of evidence for German bases.\n\nSeveral times Morley needed to convince suspicious soldiers of his \"bona fides\", and was almost unmasked on occasion. In one incident in 1917, Morley was prevented from photographing an old Spanish fort by a party of Honduran soldiers who had been distrustfully monitoring his presence. He protested strongly to the local authorities, proclaiming his credentials as an archaeologist ought to be above suspicion. The local authorities remained unmoved, and only when Morley had arranged for a letter of introduction signed by the Honduran president Francisco Bertrand did they allow him to continue.\n\nMorley produced extensive analyses (he filed over 10,000 pages of reports) on many issues and observations of the region, including detailed coastline charting and identification of political and social attitudes which could be viewed as \"threatening\" to U.S. interests. Some of these reports bordered on economic spying, detailing the activities of local competitors and opponents of large U.S. companies present in the region, such as the United Fruit Company and International Harvester.\n\nAs his later work proved, Morley was also a genuine scholar and archaeologist with an abiding interest in the region. However, his research activities in this period seem to have played a largely secondary role to his espionage duties. The authors of research into his spying proclaim Morley \"arguably the best secret agent the United States produced during World War I\". Shortly after the war several of Morley's contemporaries voiced their misgivings over the duplicitous nature of the espionage work that Morley and several of his colleagues had been suspected of. One notable critic, the famous anthropologist Franz Boas, published a letter of protest in the December 20, 1919 edition of \"The Nation\". Without naming the suspected archaeologists, Boas' letter denounced these Central American operatives who had \"prostituted science by using it as a cover for their activities as spies\". Ten days after the letter was published, the American Anthropological Association censured Boas for this action in a 21-to-10 formal vote on a resolution distancing the AAA from Boas' views. The ethical debate surrounding such \"archaeologist-spies\" continues into the present, with some commentators noting the dangers and suspicion it throws upon others engaged in legitimate archaeological fieldwork, particularly those who work or seek to work in \"sensitive\" government-controlled areas.\n\nMorley was to devote the most of the next two decades working in the Maya region, overseeing the seasonal archaeological digs and restoration projects, returning to the United States in the off-season to give a series of lectures on his finds. Although primarily involved with the work at Chichen Itza, Morley also took on responsibilities which extended Carnegie-sponsored fieldwork to other Maya sites, such as Yaxchilan, Coba, Copán, Quiriguá, Uxmal, Naranjo, Seibal and Uaxactun. Morley rediscovered the last of these sites (located in the Petén Basin region of Guatemala, to the north of Tikal). Believing that there must be many more as-yet unknown ancient Maya sites in the area, Morley advertised a \"bounty\" in return for news of such sites to the local \"chicleros\", who ranged through the jungles seeking exploitable sources of natural gum; in due course he was rewarded with the information which led to its rediscovery. He also bestowed its name, \"uaxactun\", from the Mayan languages, after a stela inscription he found there which recorded a Maya Long Count Calendar date in the 8th cycle (i.e., \"8-\"tuns\"\"; the name could also literally mean \"eight stones\").\n\nDuring this time, Morley established a reputation for trustworthiness with the local Yucatec Maya around Mérida, who were still suffering from the depredations of the Caste War of Yucatán against the Mexican government. Over the years, he was to act almost as their representative in several matters, although he was equally careful not to upset the Mexican and U.S. governments.\n\nHis directorship over all of the Institute's activities in the Maya region soon ran into difficulty. Because of cost and schedule overruns as well as criticisms of the quality of some of the research produced, the Carnegie board began to believe that managing multiple projects was not Morley's forte. In 1929, the overall directorship of the programme was passed to A. V. Kidder, and Morley was left to concentrate on Chichen Itza.\n\nApart from the archaeological investigations which were the main purpose of the Carnegie programme's efforts under Morley, the programme also sponsored the undertaking of comparative field research on modern Yucatec Maya communities. This research, conducted in the 1930s and led by the anthropologist Robert Redfield as a Carnegie research associate, collected data and examined the cultural contrasts of indigenous Maya experience at four \"levels\" of community — a traditional indigenous village, a peasant village, a town, and a city — which were analyzed in social anthropological terms as 'types' representing different degrees of societal isolation and homogeneity.\n\nSlightly built and not noted for possessing a strong constitution, Morley saw his health deteriorate over the years spent laboring in the Central American jungles under often adverse conditions. Several times, he was incapacitated by recurring bouts of malaria and he had to be hospitalised after separately contracting colitis and then amoebic dysentery the following year. During the 1930s, it also became evident that he had developed cardiac difficulties, which would plague him for the remainder of his life. Nevertheless, although he \"detested\" the jungle conditions, he persevered in his work with evident enthusiasm.\n\nIn between overseeing the projects and conducting his own researches, Morley published several treatises on Maya hieroglyphics and his interpretations on their meaning. These include a survey of inscriptions at Copán (1920) and a larger study (a massive tome of over 2,000 pages in five volumes) encompassing many of the sites he had investigated in the Petén region (1932–38).\n\nChichen Itza is about 120km (75 miles) southeast of Mérida, on the inland plains of north-central Yucatán. It had been known to Europeans since the first recorded visits by the 16th century \"conquistadores\". During the conquest of Yucatán, the Spanish attempted to establish a capital at Chichén Itzá, but resistance by Maya in the region drove them out after several months of occupation. When the Spanish returned to Yucatán in 1542 they finally succeeded in establishing a capital at another Maya city, \"T'ho\" (or \"Tiho\"), which they renamed Mérida.\n\nChichen Itza had evidently been functionally abandoned long before the Spanish first came, although the local indigenous Yucatec Maya still lived in settlements nearby, and even within its former boundaries (but in recently built wooden huts, not the stone buildings themselves). The name \"Chichen Itza\" is known from the earliest recorded Spanish accounts —such as Diego de Landa's— of these local inhabitants, for whom the site had long been a place of pilgrimage and ceremony. The name (\"chich'en itza\" in modern Yukatek orthography) means roughly \"mouth of the well of the Itza\", the \"well\" being the nearby Sacred Cenote (water-filled sinkhole) and \"Itza\" being the name of the people who were reputed to be its former inhabitants. Over the next three centuries after the Conquest, the site remained relatively undisturbed until the arrival of Stephens and Catherwood, although several plantations were established nearby.\n\nAt the time its full extent was not at all clear, but today it is recognised as one of the largest Maya sites in the Yucatán region. How long ago the site had been functionally abandoned (not including the ongoing presence of local Maya farmers) was not immediately apparent, although it appeared to have been recently, in comparison with the seemingly older abandoned sites of the central and southern Maya region.\n\nBy 1922 the turbulent political situation in Mexico had stabilized somewhat, clearing the way for work to begin on the Carnegie Institution's Chichen Itza project. Morley and Carnegie Institution President Charles Merriam visited Chichen Itza in February 1923. The Mexican government was already at work restoring the massive pyramid, El Castillo. Morley gave Merriam a tour of the area he believed would be best for excavation and restoration, a mound complex then known as the Group of One Thousand Columns (which included the Temple of Warriors).\n\nWhen Morley and his team returned in 1924 to commence their excavations, Chichen Itza was a sprawling complex of several large ruined buildings and many smaller ones, most of which lay concealed under mounds of earth and vegetation. Some areas of the site had been surveyed, photographed and documented in the late 19th and early 20th centuries by Desire Charnay, Augustus Le Plongeon, Teoberto Maler, Alfred Maudslay, Eduard Seler, and Edward H. Thompson, although only Le Plongeon and Thompson had conducted any significant excavation, and their efforts would pale in comparison to the Carnegie project.\n\nIn 1924, armed with a renewable ten-year digging concession from the Mexican government, Morley, his field director Earl H. Morris, artists Ann Axtel Morris and Jean Charlot, and several others began their first explorations. They selected an area within what appeared to be the central plaza of the site, where the capitals of some columns lay exposed. Much to their surprise they uncovered row upon row of free-standing columns — surprising since such columns hardly ever figured in Classic Maya architecture. This complex (now called the \"Complex of a Thousand Columns\", although the columns number fewer than one thousand), un-Maya-like in both execution and arrangement, added confirmation to earlier speculations that Chichen Itza was something of an enigma. This arrangement had much more in common with the architectural styles of civilizations in central Mexico (more than a thousand kilometres away) than that of the Classic or Pre-Classic Maya. In particular, this complex and some others which were gradually revealed appeared to have much in common with structures built at Tula, believed to be the capital of the Toltecs and which was located about 100 km north of present-day Mexico City.\n\nOver the next few seasons, the team expanded their digs, recovering other anomalous structures from the earthen mounds, such as the Temple of the Jaguar and the Temple of the Warriors. In 1927 they discovered an older structure underneath this latter, which they called the \"Temple of the Chacmool\" after a further example found of this distinctive statuary. These structures had frescoes which again exhibited a non-Maya style, or at least a hybrid of Maya and non-Maya. They also worked on the reconstruction of \"el Caracol\", a unique circular building believed (and later confirmed) to be an observatory. A separate archaeological dig, this one under the Mexican government, had also commenced working the site; the two projects divided the areas to excavate, continuing side-by-side for several years, in a somewhat guarded but nonetheless cordial fashion.\n\nWhile Morris oversaw day-to-day operations, and Charlot sketched the murals, Morley occupied himself with copying all the inscriptions he could find, particularly the date portions. Since most of these inscription dates at the site were recorded in an abbreviated form known as the \"Short Count\", which only identified an event within a span of about 260 years, it was difficult to pin down in which particular span an event referred to in the inscriptions occurred. Towards the end of the project Morley's work on these was to be superseded somewhat by a more-comprehensive analysis made by Hermann Beyer in 1937. In this work, Beyer would note:\n\nI frequently have differed with the opinions of Dr. Sylvanus G. Morley. This is easily explained by the fact that he is one of the few archaeologists who have studied the hieroglyphs of Chichen Itza. While I agree with his results on the inscriptions of the Old Empire cities which contain many dates and time periods, I find that his method of dealing solely with calendrical matter fails at Chichen Itza, since there are but few hieroglyphs of that nature.\n\nThe later years of the project would increasingly concentrate on completing the restorative work on the principal structures, for Morley always had an eye on the dual purpose of the project: to research, but also rebuild to generate the promised revenue from tourism.\n\nThe net research result of their excavations revealed Chichen Itza to be an unusual mixture of building styles: not only was there a wide variety of Maya styles such as Puuc, Rio Bec and Chenes, but a significant presence of Mexican influences such as El Tajín, but more particularly Toltec. The evidence indicated that the site had been inhabited since at least the mid-Classic, but that a particular florescence had occurred in the Post-Classic, when the site was apparently a major power. From the combined results of their work, that of others, and some documented tales of contact-era Maya peoples, a view was formed that Chichen Itza had actually been invaded and conquered sometime in the 10th century by Toltec warriors from the far west, who maintained their hold over the local Maya for another century or so, only in turn to be replaced by a later mixed Maya-Mexica group known as the Itza. Later evidence suggested that the actual year of this invasion was 987, and identified its leader with a legendary Toltec ruler called Topiltzin Ce Acatl Quetzalcoatl after the Mesoamerican deity Quetzalcoatl (\"K'ulk'ulkan\" in Yucatec).\n\nMorley was in general opposed to ideas that other external groups had influenced the Maya, but in this case, since the conquest occurred in the \"degenerate\" Post-Classic phase he found it acceptable. This view of the Toltec invasion of Yucatán became the one maintained by the majority of Mayanists. However, recent research from the mid-1990s onwards has now questioned this orthodoxy, to the point where many now hold an actual invasion did not take place, but the similarities in style are largely due to cultural diffusion and trade, and that in fact there is evidence that the diffusion in this period flowed in both directions.\n\nThe chronology of Chichen Itza continues to be a source of debate, and the hoped-for answers to the mystery of the Classic Maya decline elusive (wholesale \"Mexicanisation\" by invading forces ruled out by the lack of these indicators in the central and southern sites). However, the Carnegie excavations did add significantly to the corpus of available information, and are notable for their scope alone, if not for fine details and quality of research. The site's reconstruction by Carnegie has proved to be a lasting one, and the site today is among the most visited of pre-Columbian ruins in all of Central America and Mexico, with in excess of a million visitors per year.\n\nAfter almost twenty years, Carnegie's Chichen Itza project wound to a close in 1940, its restorative and investigative work complete and its objectives substantially met. Morley and his second wife Frances moved from the Hacienda Chichén, their home for many years, and rented the Hacienda Chenku, now within the city of Mérida, Yucatán.\n\nAfter the close of the Chichen Itza Project, Morley began spending more time in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he had lived half of the year every year since 1910. He was appointed director of the School of American Research and the Museum of New Mexico, following the death of Edgar Lee Hewett in 1946. He also began work on a large-scale popular work on ancient Maya society, which he completed and published in 1946. \"The Ancient Maya\" was to be one of his more successful works (outside of his popular writings in magazines), and has been posthumously revised and reprinted several times, although since the 1980s Morley's name is no longer listed as the main author.\n\nMorley last visited Yucatán and the Hacienda Chenku in spring of 1948, just months before his death. He escorted a party to the ruins of Uxmal in February, on what was possibly his last visit to a Maya ruin. He died in Santa Fe on September 2, 1948, aged 65, two years after the publication of \"The Ancient Maya\". He was buried in a plot in Santa Fe's Fairview Cemetery; his second wife Frances Rhoads Morley was interred in the same plot upon her death in 1955.\n\nMorley's personal research library is preserved and available for consultation at the Laboratory of Anthropology Library in Santa Fe, New Mexico.\n\nIn his day, Morley was widely regarded as one of the leading figures in Maya scholarship, in authority perhaps second only to Eric Thompson, whose views he mostly shared. From the late 1920s through to perhaps the mid-1970s, the reconstruction of ancient Maya society and history pieced together by Morley, Thompson and others constituted the \"standard\" interpretation against which competing views had to be measured. However, major advances made in the decipherment of Maya hieroglyphic writing and refinements in archaeological data which have been made since that time have now called into question much of this former \"standard\" interpretation, overturning key elements and significantly revising the Maya historical account. As far as Morley's own research is concerned, its reputation for soundness and quality has been downgraded somewhat in the light of recent reappraisals; yet he is still regarded as an important contributor to the field.\n\nMany Mayan scholars and archaeologists had their first research opportunity and employment under Morley's tutelage working on the various Carnegie projects. Of these, perhaps the two most notable were J. Eric S. Thompson and Tatiana Proskouriakoff. Thompson shortly became the field's most dominant figure and its uncontested expert. Together with Morley, he was most responsible for promulgating the view of the ancient Maya as peaceable astronomers, obsessed with time and calendric observations. This view became the prevailing one for the next several decades. Proskouriakoff also went on to establish a stellar career and a lifelong association with the Carnegie Institution; however, her researches ultimately provided the primary convincing evidence which later disproved much of what had been maintained by Thompson and Morley.\n\nIn 1925, a young English Cambridge anthropology student named John Eric Sidney Thompson wrote to Morley seeking employment with the Carnegie programme on digs in Central America. Thompson had studied Morley's 1915 work and from that taught himself Maya calendrics, which were a particular passion for Morley. The Carnegie Institution at Morley's urging accordingly hired Thompson, and he soon found himself at work in Chichen Itza, involved with its architectural reconstruction (for which task Thompson had no particular qualifications). During the 1925–26 season, Thompson became well-acquainted with Morley, the two of them along with their wives (the newly married Thompson was in fact on his honeymoon) making several side-trips together. However, at the end of the 1926 season, Thompson left Carnegie's employ to take up a post offered by Chicago's Field Museum of Natural History. This post offered Thompson far greater freedom and diversity for his research. Thompson and Morley were to remain close and like-minded colleagues in spite of this move.\n\nTowards the end of the Chichen Itza project, Morley came across the drawings of a young artist and draftsperson, Tatiana Proskouriakoff, who as an unpaid excavator had accompanied a 1936–37 University of Pennsylvania Museum expedition to the Maya site of Piedras Negras. The quality of her reconstructive panorama drawings (depicting what the site \"might have looked like\" when in use) so impressed Morley that he determined to enroll her onto the Carnegie staff. However, this was in the midst of the Great Depression and funds for hiring were scarce; it was also not clear whether Morley had the appropriate authority to do so. After several entreaties, Morley again came up with an innovative funding scheme whereby he devised two campaigns to raise money by subscription to send Proskouriakoff to Copán and the Yucatán. These were successful, and in 1939, Proskouriakoff transferred onto the Carnegie payroll and was duly dispatched to Copán to gather data for reconstructive drawings of that site. Morley's support of Proskouriakoff was to prove fortuitous to Maya scholarship, as she went on to a lengthy and successful career with the Carnegie Institution and was lauded as one of the foremost Maya scholars of her time.\n\nMorley maintained that ancient Maya society was essentially a united theocracy, and one which was almost exclusively devoted to astronomical observations and mystically noting (even \"worshipping\") the passage of time. These ideas (which Thompson's later work would develop to its fullest extent) are now extensively modified, and although astronomical and calendric observations were clearly important to the Maya, the people themselves are now seen in more historical, realistic terms—concerned also with dynastic succession, political conquests, and the lives and achievements of actual personages.\n\nHe also believed that the southern centers such as Copán and Quiriguá had been united in the Classical period under what he termed the \"Old Empire\". This empire mysteriously collapsed, but the remnants later migrated to the northern sites (such as Chichen Itza) to form a \"New Empire\". It is now generally accepted that at no time was the Maya region united under a single polity, but rather that individual \"city-states\" maintained a somewhat independent existence, albeit one with its fluctuating conquests and local subservience to more dominant centers. In support of his view, Morley devised a 4-tier classification system of relative importance, which he ascribed to all of the then-known main Maya sites (about 116); many more sites are now known, and his classification system is now seen as an arbitrary one, contradicted in places by the sites' texts which can now be (substantially) read.\n\nOther ideas Morley put forward include the proposal that the ancient Maya were the first in Mesoamerica to domesticate maize (\"Zea mays\" ssp. \"mays\"), with the wild variety known as \"teosinte\" being its progenitor. Recent genetic studies have shown Morley to be largely correct in this, although the beginnings of its domestication (12,000 to 7,500 years ago) pre-dates the establishment of anything resembling Maya society. In general, Morley held that the ancient Maya had been the pre-eminent civilization of Mesoamerica, from which other cultures had drawn their influences. It is now accepted that other societies (such as the Zapotec and Olmec) preceded that of the Maya and the influences—such as development of writing and the Mesoamerican calendars—were rather the other way around; even in the later stages of Maya history, their region came under significant influences drawn from central Mexico, such as the Toltec \"invasion\". However, the Maya did also exert a widespread influence over neighboring contemporary cultures, one which was significant and not to be overlooked.\n\nIn common with most other Maya scholars, Morley was particularly interested in the mysterious nature of the Maya script. The essentials of the calendric notation and astronomical data had been worked out by the early 20th century, and by the 1930s John E. Teeple had solved (with Morley's encouragement) the glyphs known as the \"Supplementary Series\", proving that these referred to the lunar cycle and could be used to predict lunar eclipses. However, the bulk of the texts and inscriptions still defied all attempts at decipherment, despite much concerted effort. It was Morley's view, and one that found wide support, that these undeciphered portions would contain only more of the same astronomical, calendric and perhaps religious information, not actual historical data. He wrote in 1940, \"time, in its various manifestations, the accurate record of its principal phenomena, constitutes the majority of Maya writing.\" He also wrote that he doubted that any toponym would be found in the texts. He supposed that the Maya writing system was one based chiefly upon ideographic or pictographic principles, and that if present any elements of phoneticism would always be \"overshadow[ed]\" by the ideographic meaning assigned to each glyph.\" That is to say, in Morley's view each glyph substantially represented words, ideas and concepts \"in toto\", and did not separately depict the individual language sounds as spoken by the scribes who had written them (with the possible exception of an occasional rebus-like element, as had already been demonstrated for Aztec writing).\n\nThe convincing evidence which was to overturn this view became known only after Morley's death, starting with Yuri Knorozov's work in the 1950s. Over the next decades other Mayanists such as Proskouriakoff, Michael D. Coe, and David H. Kelley would further expand upon this phonetic line of enquiry, which ran counter to the accepted view but would prove to be ever more fruitful as their work continued. By the mid-1970s, it had become increasingly clear to most that the Maya writing system was a logosyllabic one, a mixture of logograms and phonetic components that included a fully functional syllabary.\n\nThese realizations led to the successful decipherment of many of the texts which had been impenetrable (and almost \"dismissed\") by Morley and the \"old school\". In retrospect, these breakthroughs may have been realized earlier had it not been for Morley's, and later Eric Thompson's, almost \"on principle\" position against the phonetic approach. Consequently, most of Morley's attempts to advance understanding of the Maya script have been superseded.\n\nMorley's particular passion was the study of the Maya calendar and its related inscriptions, and in this respect, he made useful expositions that have withstood later scrutiny. His talent was not so much to make innovations, but rather to publicise and explain the workings of the various systems. He was particularly proficient at recovering calendar dates from well-worn and weathered inscriptions, owing to his great familiarity with the various glyphic styles of the \"tzolk'in\", \"haab'\" and Long Count elements. Yet in his focus on calendric details, he would often overlook or even neglect the documentation of other non-calendric aspects of the Maya script; the comprehensiveness of some of his publications suffered much as a result. Some leading figures from a later generation of Mayanists would come to regard his publications as being inferior in detail and scope to that of his predecessors, such as Teoberto Maler and Alfred Maudslay — poorer quality reproductions, omitted texts, sometimes inaccurate drawings.\n\nAs a director of archaeological excavation projects, Sylvanus Morley was well regarded and liked by his colleagues and his Carnegie board employers, his later movement to \"lighter duties\" notwithstanding. The reconstructions of Chichen Itza and other sites were widely admired; but in terms of the research output and the resulting documentation produced, the legacy of these projects did not quite amount to what might have been expected to come from such a lengthy investigation. For some later Maya researchers, \"...in spite of seventeen years of research at Chichén Itzá by Carnegie, this world-famous city yet remains an archaeological enigma\"; it is comparatively little-understood given the amount of work which had gone into it under Morley's direction. Coe also comments that many talented people such as Thompson would spend more time in restoring the site for later tourism than in actual research. Thompson himself would later remark in reference to his time working for Carnegie:\n\"...in my memory it seems that I personally shifted every blessed stone.\"\n\nDespite the later reassessments that were to somewhat dull the shine of his achievements, Sylvanus Morley remains a notable and respected figure in Maya scholarship. His publications are now generally superseded, except for his calendrical compilations. His epigraphic work, which was his personal abiding interest (\"bringing home the epigraphic bacon\" was a favorite quote of his), is likewise generally outdated, although it was widely supported for several decades after his death. Perhaps the contributions that today remain the most relevant arise from his instigation of the Carnegie research programmes, his enthusiasm and support shown to other scholars, and the undeniable successes in the restorative efforts that have made the Maya sites justly famous. He had particular talents in communicating his fascination for the subject to a wider audience, and in his lifetime became quite widely known as perhaps \"the\" quintessential model of an early 20th-century Central American scholar and explorer, complete with his ever-present pith helmet. Some have even speculated that his life and exploits may have provided some of the inspiration for the character of Indiana Jones in the Spielberg films; the Carnegie Institute itself mentions that it might also have been Morley's field director at Chichen Itza, Earl Morris.\n\nSylvanus Morley was also to be remembered as a spokesman and representative of the Maya peoples, among whom he spent so much of his time, and who otherwise lacked the means to directly address some of their concerns with the wider public.\n\nMorley's publications include:\n\nIn addition to his scholarly work, Morley thought it important to share his enthusiasm for the ancient Maya with the public. He wrote a popular series of articles about the Maya and various Maya sites in the \"National Geographic Magazine\". Several later archaeologists would recall that their youthful exposure to these articles, \"vividly illustrated with a color rendition of a purported virgin in filmy \"huipil\" [a type of clothing] being hurled into the Sacred Cenote\", had drawn them into the field in the first place.\n\nMorley's \"The Ancient Maya\" was later detected to be a primary source used in several attempted forgeries of Mesoamerican conquest-era manuscripts, such as those known as \"Historias de la Conquista del Mayab\", the \"Canek Manuscript\", and several others. These documents purported to be contemporary accounts written around the 17th century, which had been \"discovered\" in the mid-20th century. The manuscripts described various aspects of Maya culture and detailed some episodes from early Spanish colonial history; several also included illustrations of Maya glyphs. Although initially accepted by some sources as authentic, later analysis demonstrated striking similarities with the Spanish-language edition of Morley's work, and thus identifying them as modern fakes made sometime between 1950 and 1965.\n\nConfusingly, and remarkably, there were actually two Sylvanus Griswold Morleys whose careers were contemporaneous. This second Sylvanus G. Morley was in fact the older maternal cousin to the first, born February 23, 1878, in Baldwinville, Worcester County, Massachusetts. This latter was originally baptised Sylvanus Griswold Small (\"Sylvanus Griswold\" being a family \"heirloom\" name), but changed his surname from Small to Morley in his early twenties when his father did likewise. As a result, many biographical references confuse details of the two, such as interchanging their birthplaces.\n\nSylvanus G. (Small) Morley preceded Sylvanus the archaeologist into Harvard, and he was later to establish a career as a Professor of Spanish at the University of California, Berkeley. In his autobiography, the Spanish professor noted the effect of this name change and subsequent confusion:\nThis Morley is perhaps best known to students of American culture for his early interest in old covered bridges as historical structures. His book on The Covered Bridges of California (University of California Press, 1938) remains an important reference work on the subject.\n\nSylvanus G. (Small) Morley died in 1970; his son Thomas published his autobiographical notes posthumously.\n"}
{"id": "50426250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50426250", "title": "The Age of Louis XIV", "text": "The Age of Louis XIV\n\nThe Age of Louis XIV (\"Le Siècle de Louis XIV\", also translated The Century of Louis XIV) is a historical work by the French historian, philosopher, and writer Voltaire, first published in 1751. Through it, the French 17th century became identified with Louis XIV of France, who reigned from 1643 to 1715.\n\nA letter in May 1732 is the first recorded mention of Voltaire's intent to write a history of the reign of Louis XIV. He stopped and resumed the project multiple times, expressing the fear that he might not live long enough to complete it. For preparation, he read two hundred volumes of material, plus many unpublished memoirs, as well as historical documents he found in the archives of the Louvre.\n\nIn common with other Enlightenment philosophers, Voltaire saw the age of Alexander the Great and Pericles, the age of Caesar and Augustus, and the Italian Renaissance as \"great ages\" or \"ages of light\". He presented the age of Louis XIV as the fourth and greatest.\n\nThe period covered by the history does not correspond either to the 17th century nor to the reign of Louis XIV, but from the last years of Cardinal Richelieu to the years after Louis XIV's death. Voltaire described this age as the greatest ever in terms of arts and philosophy; the time coming closest to perfection. By praising a past age as the greatest ever, he implicitly criticised the culture and art of his own time – the mid-18th century, in the reign of Louis XV – as being in decline. The history consists of 36 chapters.\n\nVoltaire repeatedly remarked that the work should be seen as less like a history but as like a painting: his main concern was not to document already noteworthy events but to celebrate the progress of reason and culture. He saw more greatness in the advance of art or the rejection of medieval superstition—for example, the release of everyone who had been imprisoned for sorcery—than in celebrated military victories. He described his own role as highlighting trends that others had not noticed, similarly to how a painter sees subtleties of light and colour that others miss.\n\nThe Protestant writer Laurent Angliviel de la Beaumelle published an annotated version of the book, \"Notes sur le siècle de Louis XIV,\" in 1753, adding many attacks against Voltaire.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the English writer Hannah More wrote that Voltaire had \"decorated both the period and the king with so much that is great and brilliant, that they fill a large space in the eye of the reader.\" The American writer Virginia Randolph Cary wrote in 1828 that \"Voltaire's General History, and his Age of Lewis XIV, will always be read with pleasure.\"\n\nThe publication of new editions of \"The Age of Louis XIV\" in the late 20th century helped to renew interest in Voltaire as a historian. Modern scholars have described it as \"the foundational text of French literary history\" and \"a milestone on the road to modern history-writing\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51381322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51381322", "title": "Thomas Day Goodrich", "text": "Thomas Day Goodrich\n\nThomas Day Goodrich (1927–2015) was an American teacher and historian of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nTom Goodrich was the son of a prominent scholar of Chinese history and language, Luther Carrington Goodrich, who took him to live in China from the ages of 3 to 5. The family then moved back to the United States, where Goodrich attended school and did his military service.\nIn 1953, he received his master's degree from Columbia University. He wanted to teach overseas, so he accepted a position in Turkey at a middle school for boys, where he taught for four years. He then spent an additional year in Turkey teaching at a high school for girls in Izmir. It was during this time abroad that he met his first wife Carol \"Rusty\" Wright.\n\nBack in the US, Goodrich began a doctoral program in history at Columbia University, where he studied with Tibor Halasi-Kun (his thesis advisor) and Peter Gay.\n\nWith the help of a Fulbright Scholarship, Goodrich completed his dissertation, an in-depth study and translation of the Tarih-i Hindi-i Garbi. This is an illustrated history of the exploration and conquest of America written by an Ottoman author in the late 16th century. Upon completing his graduate studies, he and Carol Wright were married and he accepted a teaching position at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. An expanded version of his dissertation was published as a book \"The Ottoman Turks and the New World\" in 1990. \nGoodrich went on to bring to light several little-known Ottoman maps and to become an expert on Piri Reis. In the early 1990s he was invited by the Topkapi Saray Museum Library to prepare a catalogue their map collection, which he published in \"Imago Mundi\".\n\nSince 1967, Goodrich taught history at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. In 1973 he was elected chair of the University Senate. He retired in 1994 with emeritus status.\n\nThe \"Journal of Ottoman Studies\" dedicated two issues to Tom Goodrich in a \"festschrift\" in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "14523557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14523557", "title": "Timeline of Sudanese history", "text": "Timeline of Sudanese history\n\nThis is a timeline of Sudanese history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Sudan and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Sudan. See that the list of governors of pre-independence Sudan and list of heads of state of Sudan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8898515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8898515", "title": "Trevor R. Bryce", "text": "Trevor R. Bryce\n\nTrevor Robert Bryce (; born 1940) is an Australian Hittitologist specializing in ancient and classical Near-eastern history. He is semi-retired and lives in Brisbane.\n\nHis book, \"The Kingdom of the Hittites\", is popular among English-speaking readers since the study of the Hittites has been dominated by German-language scholarship. A new improved and updated edition of this popular book, featuring 90 additional pages, was published in 2005 by Professor Bryce. Bryce is a professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Religion, and Classics at The University of Queensland.\n\nHe has two children and five grandchildren.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37182506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37182506", "title": "Trần Quốc Vượng", "text": "Trần Quốc Vượng\n\nTrần Quốc Vượng (12 December 1934 – 8 August 2005) was a Vietnamese historian, archaeologist and culturologist. He was part of the generation including Hà Văn Tấn, and Phan Huy Lê which formed the foundation of Vietnamese History Studies since the 1950s. Since 1956, he was Professor of University of Social Sciences and Humanities - Vietnam National University, Hanoi and gave lectures on Vietnamese Ancient-Middle History, Archaeology and Culturology until 2005.\n\nBorn on December 12, 1934, in Kinh Mon Village, Hải Dương province, Trần Quốc Vượng graduated as Bachelor of History-Geography at University of Hanoi. He was then invited to teach at the University of Hanoi (later known as University of Social Sciences and Humanities, Vietnam National University, Hanoi). He studied archaeology during 1959-60 and together with renowned Archaeology Institute director and professor Hà Văn Tấn led the way in unearthing Vietnam's archaeological history. He was made a professor in 1980.\n\nHe held the Rockefeller Foundation visiting fellowship to Cornell University's Centre for Southeast Asian Studies in 1991.\n\nProfessor Trần Quốc Vượng's many posts included deputy general secretary of the Vietnam's Folklore Literature Association and first president of the Hanoi History Association.\n\nProfessor Trần Quốc Vượng wrote about a variety of subjects from history, to archaeology and man in society, was among the first to begin a systematic study of Vietnam's culture. In 1960, he translated and provided notes to Đại Việt sử lược (ancient Chinese: 大越史略), or Sketches of Vietnam's History, one of the country's most ancient surviving works. In 1973, he was the chief author of the two-edition \"Danh nhân Hà Nội\" (Hanoi's Famous Personalities) and in 1975, in collaboration with Vũ Tuân Sán he wrote Hà Nội Nghìn Xưa, or Thousand-year Hanoi. In 1976, he worked with Lê Văn Hảo and Dương Tất Từ to write \"Mùa xuân và phong tục Việt Nam\" (Vietnam or Spring and Vietnam's Customs). All were expressions of his desire to contribute all his knowledge to recording his country's history.\n\n"}
{"id": "2216503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2216503", "title": "Yuri Knorozov", "text": "Yuri Knorozov\n\nYuriy Valentinovich Knorozov (alternatively Knorosov; , ; November 19, 1922 – March 31, 1999) was a Soviet linguist epigrapher and ethnographer, who is particularly renowned for the pivotal role his research played in the decipherment of the Maya script, the writing system used by the pre-Columbian Maya civilization of Mesoamerica.\n\nKnorozov was born in a village Pivdenne near Kharkiv in Ukraine, at that time the capital of the newly formed Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic. His parents were Russian intellectuals, and his paternal grandmother Maria Sakhavyan had been a stage actress of national repute in Armenia.\n\nAt school, the young Yuri was a difficult and somewhat eccentric student, who made indifferent progress in a number of subjects and was almost expelled for poor and willful behaviour. However, it became clear that he was academically bright with an inquisitive temperament; he was an accomplished violinist, wrote romantic poetry and could draw with accuracy and attention to detail.\n\nIn 1940 at the age of 17, Knorozov left Kharkiv for Moscow where he commenced undergraduate studies in the newly created Department of Ethnology at Moscow State University's faculty of History. He initially specialised in Egyptology.\n\nKnorozov's study plans were soon interrupted by the outbreak of World War II hostilities along the Eastern Front in mid-1941. From 1943 to 1945 Knorozov served his term in the second world war in the Red Army as an artillery spotter.\n\nAt the closing stages of the war in May 1945, Knorozov and his unit supported the push of the Red Army vanguard into Berlin. It was here, sometime in the aftermath of the Battle of Berlin, that Knorozov is supposed to have by chance retrieved a book which would spark his later interest in and association with deciphering the Maya script. In their retelling, the details of this episode have acquired a somewhat folkloric quality, as \"...one of the greatest legends of the history of Maya research\". The story has been much reproduced, particularly following the 1992 publication of Michael D. Coe's \"Breaking the Maya Code\".\n\nAccording to this version of the anecdote, when stationed in Berlin, Knorozov came across the National Library while it was ablaze. Somehow Knorozov managed to retrieve from the burning library a book, which remarkably enough turned out to be a rare edition containing reproductions of the three Maya codices which were then known—the Dresden, Madrid and Paris codices. Knorozov is said to have taken this book back with him to Moscow at the end of the war, where its examination would form the basis for his later pioneering research into the Maya script.\n\nHowever, in an interview conducted a year before his death, Knorozov provided a different version of the anecdote. As he explained to his interlocutor, the Mayanist epigrapher Harri Kettunen of the University of Helsinki:\n\n\"Unfortunately it was a misunderstanding: I told about it [finding the books in the library in Berlin] to my colleague Michael Coe, but he didn't get it right. There simply wasn't any fire in the library. And the books that were in the library, were in boxes to be sent somewhere else. The fascist command had packed them, and since they didn't have time to move them anywhere, they were simply taken to Moscow. I didn't see any fire there.\"\n\nThe \"National Library\" mentioned in these accounts is not specifically identified by name, but at the time the library then known as the \"Preußische Staatsbibliothek\" (Prussian State Library) had that function. Situated on Unter den Linden and today known as the Berlin State Library (\"Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin\"), this was the largest scientific library of Germany. During the war, most of its collection had been dispersed over some 30 separate storage places across the country for safe-keeping. After the war much of the collection was returned to the library. However, a substantial number of volumes which had been sent for storage in the eastern part of the country were never recovered, with upwards of 350,000 volumes destroyed and a further 300,000 missing. Of these, many ended up in Soviet and Polish library collections, and in particular at the Russian State Library in Moscow.\n\nAccording to documentary sources, the so-called \"Berlin Affair\" is just one of many legends related to the personality of Knorosov. His student Ershova exposed it as a legend and also reported, that documents of Knorosov, first of all his military card, could be a proof, that he did not take part in the Battle of Berlin and was then in a different place, finishing his service in a military unit located near Moscow.\n\nIn the autumn of 1945 after World War II, Knorozov returned to Moscow State University to complete his undergraduate courses at the department of Ethnography. He resumed his research into Egyptology, and also undertook comparative cultural studies in other fields such as Sinology. He displayed a particular interest and aptitude for the study of ancient languages and writing systems, especially hieroglyphs, and he also read in medieval Japanese and Arabic literature.\n\nWhile still an undergraduate at MSU, Knorozov found work at the N.N. Miklukho-Maklai Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology (or IEA), part of the prestigious Academy of Sciences of the USSR. Knorozov's later research findings would be published by the IEA under its imprint.\n\nAs part of his ethnographic curriculum Knorozov spent several months as a member of a field expedition to the Central Asian Russian republics of the Uzbek and Turkmen SSRs (what had formerly been the Khorezm PSR, and would much later become the independent nations of Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan following the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union). On this expedition his ostensible focus was to study the effects of Russian expansionary activities and \"modern\" developments upon the nomadic ethnic groups, of what was a far-flung frontier world of the Soviet state.\n\nAt this point the focus of his research had not yet been drawn on the Maya script. This would change in 1947, when at the instigation of his professor, Knorozov wrote his dissertation on the \"de Landa alphabet\", a record produced by the 16th century Spanish Bishop Diego de Landa in which he claimed to have transliterated the Spanish alphabet into corresponding Maya hieroglyphs, based on input from Maya informants. De Landa, who during his posting to Yucatán had overseen the destruction of all the codices from the Maya civilization he could find, reproduced his alphabet in a work (\"Relación de las Cosas de Yucatán\") intended to justify his actions once he had been placed on trial when recalled to Spain. The original document had disappeared, and this work was unknown until 1862 when an abridged copy was discovered in the archives of the Spanish Royal Academy by the French scholar, Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg.\n\nSince de Landa's \"alphabet\" seemed to be contradictory and unclear (e.g., multiple variations were given for some of the letters, and some of the symbols were not known in the surviving inscriptions), previous attempts to use this as a key for deciphering the Maya writing system had not been successful.\n\nIn 1952 Knorozov published a paper which was later to prove to be a seminal work in the field (\"Drevnyaya pis’mennost’ Tsentral’noy Ameriki\", or \"Ancient Writing of Central America\".) The general thesis of this paper put forward the observation that early scripts such as ancient Egyptian and Cuneiform which were generally or formerly thought to be predominantly logographic or even purely ideographic in nature, in fact contained a significant phonetic component. That is to say, rather than the symbols representing only or mainly whole words or concepts, many symbols in fact represented the sound elements of the language in which they were written, and had alphabetic or syllabic elements as well, which if understood could further their decipherment. By this time, this was largely known and accepted for several of these, such as Egyptian hieroglyphs (the decipherment of which was famously commenced by Jean-François Champollion in 1822 using the tri-lingual Rosetta Stone artefact); however the prevailing view was that Mayan did not have such features. Knorozov's studies in comparative linguistics drew him to the conclusion that the Mayan script should be no different from the others, and that purely logographic or ideographic scripts did not exist.\n\nKnorozov's key insight was to treat the Maya glyphs represented in de Landa's alphabet not as an alphabet, but rather as a syllabary. He was perhaps not the first to propose a syllabic basis for the script, but his arguments and evidence were the most compelling to date. He maintained that when de Landa had commanded of his informant to write the equivalent of the Spanish letter \"b\" (for example), the Maya scribe actually produced the glyph which corresponded to the \"syllable\", /be/, as spoken by de Landa. Knorozov did not actually put forward many new transcriptions based on his analysis, nevertheless he maintained that this approach was the key to understanding the script. In effect, the de Landa \"alphabet\" was to become almost the \"Rosetta stone\" of Mayan decipherment.\n\nA further critical principle put forward by Knorozov was that of synharmony. According to this, Mayan words or syllables which had the form consonant-vowel-consonant (CVC) were often to be represented by two glyphs, each representing a CV-syllable (i.e., CV-CV). In the reading, the vowel of the second was meant to be ignored, leaving the reading (CVC) as intended. The principle also stated that when choosing the second CV glyph, it would be one with an echo vowel that matched the vowel of the first glyph syllable. Later analysis has proved this to be largely correct.\n\nUpon the publication of this work from a then hardly known scholar, Knorozov and his thesis came under some severe and at times dismissive criticism. J. Eric S. Thompson, the noted British scholar regarded by all as the leading Mayanist of his day, led the attack. Thompson's views at that time were solidly anti-phonetic, and his own large body of detailed research had already fleshed-out a view that the Maya inscriptions did not record their actual history, and that the glyphs were founded on ideographic principles. His view was the prevailing one in the field, and many other scholars followed suit.\n\nThe situation was further complicated by Knorozov's paper appearing during the height of the Cold War, and many were able to dismiss his paper as being founded on misguided Marxist-Leninist ideology and polemic. Indeed, in keeping with the mandatory practices of the time, Knorozov's paper was prefaced by a foreword written by the journal's editor which contained digressions and propagandist comments extolling the State-sponsored approach by which Knorozov had succeeded where Western scholarship had failed. However, despite claims to the contrary by several of Knorozov's detractors, Knorozov himself never did include such polemic in his writings.\n\nKnorozov persisted with his publications in spite of the criticism and rejection of many Mayanists of the time. He was perhaps shielded to some extent from the ramifications of peer disputation, since his position and standing at the institute was not adversely influenced by criticism from Western academics.\n\nKnorozov further improved his decipherment technique in his 1963 monograph \"The Writing of the Maya Indians\" and published translations of Mayan manuscripts in his 1975 work \"Maya Hieroglyphic Manuscripts\".\n\nDuring the 1960s, other Mayanists and researchers began to expand upon Knorozov's ideas. Their further field-work and examination of the extant inscriptions began to indicate that actual Maya history was recorded in the stelae inscriptions, and not just calendric and astronomical information. The Russian-born but American-resident scholar Tatiana Proskouriakoff was foremost in this work, eventually convincing Thompson and other doubters that historical events were recorded in the script.\n\nOther early supporters of the phonetic approach championed by Knorozov included Michael D. Coe and David Kelley, and whilst initially they were in a clear minority, more and more supporters came to this view as further evidence and research progressed.\n\nThrough the rest of the decade and into the next, Proskouriakoff and others continued to develop the theme, and using Knorozov's results and other approaches began to piece together some decipherments of the script. A major breakthrough came during the first round table or Mesa Redonda conference at the Maya site of Palenque in 1973, when using the syllabic approach those present (mostly) deciphered what turned out to be a list of former rulers of that particular Maya city-state.\n\nSubsequent decades saw many further such advances, to the point now where quite a significant portion of the surviving inscriptions can be read. Most Mayanists and accounts of the decipherment history apportion much of the credit to the impetus and insight provided by Knorozov's contributions, to a man who had been able to make important contributions to the understanding of this distant, ancient civilisation.\n\nAs his theories became more widely known, Knorozov was in 1956 granted leave to attend an international convention of Mesoamerican scholars in Copenhagen. This was to be his one and only venture outside the Soviet Union for quite some time, since as a Soviet academic, Knorozov was subject to the usual restrictions placed on travel outside of the Soviet Union. Over subsequent years western Mayanists needed to travel to Leningrad to meet up with him. It was not until 1990 that he was eventually able to leave Russia again and finally visit the ancient Maya homelands and archaeological sites in Mexico and Guatemala. This was at the invitation of the Guatemalan President Marco Vinicio Cerezo Arévalo, at a time of improved diplomatic relations between the two countries. Cerezo presented him with an honorary medal, and Knorozov was able to extend his stay in the region, visiting several of the important Maya sites such as Tikal. However, shortly after Vinicio Cerezo left office, Knorozov received threats from suspected right-wing militarist groups who were antagonistic to the indigenous Mayan peoples, and was forced to go into hiding and then leave the country.\n\nThe government of Mexico awarded him the \"Orden del Águila Azteca\" (Order of the Aztec Eagle), the highest decoration awarded by Mexico to non-citizens, which was presented to him at a ceremony at the Mexican Embassy in Moscow on November 30, 1994.\n\nKnorozov had broad interest in, and contributed to, other investigative fields such as archaeology, semiotics, human migration to the Americas and the evolution of the mind. However, it is his contributions to the field of Maya studies for which he is best remembered.\n\nIn his very last years, Knorozov is also known to have pointed to a place in the United States as the likely location of Chicomoztoc, the ancestral land from which—according to ancient documents and accounts considered mythical by a sizable number of scholars—Indian peoples now living in Mexico are said to have come.\n\nKnorozov died in Saint Petersburg on March 31, 1999, of pneumonia in the corridors of a city hospital, just before he was due to receive the honorary Proskouriakoff Award from Harvard University.\n\nAn incomplete listing of Knorozov's papers, conference reports and other publications, divided by subject area and type. Note that several of those listed are re-editions and/or translations of earlier papers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
