{"id": "546466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546466", "title": "A361 road", "text": "A361 road\n\nThe A361 is a major road in England and at is the longest 3 digit A road in the UK. It runs south from Ilfracombe on the north Devon coast to Barnstaple, turning south-east to Tiverton then, after a break (the M5 connects the two sections), north east from Taunton in Somerset through Street and Glastonbury, past Frome and then into Wiltshire through Trowbridge, Devizes, Avebury and Swindon. It then runs through the eastern Cotswolds, via Lechlade, Burford and Chipping Norton and on through Banbury and Daventry before terminating at its junction with the A5 road at the village of Kilsby on the Northamptonshire-Warwickshire border near Rugby. Despite being long, the majority is non-primary and relatively unimportant.\n\nWhen first designated in 1922 the A361 ran only from Taunton to Banbury. It was later extended west though Bampton to South Molton, on the route of the former A398, and from South Molton to Barnstaple and Ilfracombe, previously part of the route of the A373. In 1988, when the North Devon Link Road was opened, the A361 was switched to its present route. The old route from Taunton through Bampton to South Molton was downgraded to become the B3227. In the 1970s the route was extended north from Banbury to Daventry, providing a link to the M1 motorway near Crick.\n\nThe road starts in Ilfracombe as part of the town's High Street, and is mostly single carriageway. The road passes through the villages of Knowle and Braunton, before becoming dual carriageway standard at Ashford, which continues for the short distance to Barnstaple. From there it passes the town's railway station then merges with the A39 for a short while before splitting back off near Portmore Golf Park. The section from Barnstaple to the M5 near Tiverton has been designated the North Devon Link Road, and enables relatively fast access to the Atlantic Highway, relieving pressure on the northern section of the A39 and A358. This section is a modern, wide single carriageway trunk road (which was de-trunked in 2002), apart from the stretch between Tiverton and the M5, which is dual carriageway. Tiverton Parkway railway station is situated close to the junction with the motorway in order to give easy rail connections for people driving from north Devon. Some sections of road are on the alignment of the Devon and Somerset Railway, including the Castle Hill Viaduct over the River Bray, where the stone pillars formerly used to support a lattice girder railway bridge now support the road.\n\nThe road is merged with the A38 from Junction 27 of the M5 until Taunton. The rest of the road, from there to Swindon, is largely county-road class. It crosses the Somerset Levels separating Curry Moor from North Moor and Salt Moor, where in flood conditions such as the winter of 2012/2013 the Athelney spillway runs across the road if the drain level at Curry Moor pumping station exceeds 7.1m, making the road impassable. Next, it passes by the towns of Langport and Glastonbury and briefly merges with the A39 again. From there it continues northeast near Cranmore (the home of the East Somerset Railway) and becomes part of Frome bypass; entering Wiltshire, it then passes through Trowbridge and Devizes. It crosses the A4 at Beckhampton and from here, northwards through Avebury, the A361 has been renumbered the A4361 as it heads for Swindon town centre via Wroughton. It emerges near Stratton St Margaret, becoming the A361 again at the junction with the A419 which passes northeast of Swindon.\n\nThis road links Highworth to Lechlade and has no pavement for the entire length apart from a small section in Inglesham. It carries traffic at high speeds.\n\nThe Thames Path National Trail follows the verge for a little over one mile between Upper Inglesham and Inglesham; further north the road crosses the Thames on entering Lechlade, Gloucestershire.\n\nFrom there it continues through Lechlade, Burford and Chipping Norton passing many Oxfordshire villages on its way. It is also the boundary for the Cotswolds AONB at Lechlade. It then enters Banbury from the southwest as an arterial road passing the Banbury Cross, and heading north, the A361 multiplexes on the Southam Road roundabout of the A422. For about two miles the route is signed as A422, the dual carriageway Hennef Way until Junction 11 of the M40. From there it heads northeast through the villages of Wardington, Chipping Warden, Byfield, Charwelton, and Badby. Sections of land were purchased in the 1970s after the road was upgraded from the B4038 to the A361 to straighten out some of the sharper corners but the vast majority of these works were never done. The road then multiplexes once more, this time with the A45 just outside Daventry. Once the A45 leaves Daventry for Coventry, the remaining section of single carriageway ring road is signed as A361, before it once again turns north to Kilsby to terminate on the A5 at its northern end.\n\nThe A361 has been re-numbered the A4361 from its junction with the A4 immediately south of Avebury, northwards — becoming the A361 again at the junction with the A419 which passes north-east of Swindon.\n\n"}
{"id": "28136752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28136752", "title": "Accreditations and responsibilities of EU delegations", "text": "Accreditations and responsibilities of EU delegations\n\nThe European Union maintains delegations with the rank of embassy in many third countries, but there are delegations that are accredited to more than one foreign state. In some cases the accreditation country also hosts a consulate rank EU diplomatic office.\n\nSimilarly to ambassadors there are heads of delegations accredited to additional countries, besides their country of residence. Countries with accredited head of delegation resident elsewhere, that are hosts to an office subordinate to another delegation are marked with *.\n\nSome delegations are responsible for European Union activities and relations with third countries that have not established diplomatic relations with the EU and for special territories of EU member states, including some that are part of the EU itself (OMR). Territories that host office subordinate to such delegation are marked with *.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28471810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28471810", "title": "Agaluk", "text": "Agaluk\n\nAn Agaluk () was a feudal unit of the Ottoman Empire governed by an \"aga\", or lord.\n\nIn Bosnian history, an agaluk may often refer to land \"owned\" by an \"aga\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062", "title": "Amerigo Vespucci", "text": "Amerigo Vespucci\n\nAmerigo Vespucci (; ; March 9, 1454February 22, 1512) was an Italian explorer, financier, navigator and cartographer. Born in the Republic of Florence, he became a naturalized citizen of the Crown of Castile in 1505.\n\nVespucci first demonstrated in about 1502 that Brazil and the West Indies did not represent Asia's eastern outskirts as initially conjectured from Columbus' voyages, but instead constituted an entirely separate landmass hitherto unknown to people of the Old World. Colloquially referred to as the New World, it came to be termed \"the Americas\", a name derived from \"Americus\", the Latin version of Vespucci's first name.\n\nAmerigo Vespucci was born and raised in Florence on the Italian Peninsula. He was the third son of Ser Nastagio (Anastasio) Vespucci, a Florentine notary, and Lisabetta Mini. The father of Ser Nastagio (Anastasio) Vespucci had the name Amerigo Vespucci also. His family lived close to the Ognissanti church, the church of \"All Saints\", also dedicated to san Salvatore, the \"saint Saviour\": these familiar places may have influenced the later decision to name the Bay of All Saints and the city of Salvador, Bahia.\n\nAmerigo Vespucci was educated by his uncle, Fra Giorgio Antonio Vespucci, a Dominican friar of the monastery of San Marco in Florence. While his elder brothers were sent to the University of Pisa to pursue scholarly careers, Amerigo Vespucci embraced a mercantile life, and was hired as a clerk by the Florentine commercial house of Medici, headed by Lorenzo de' Medici. Vespucci acquired the favor and protection of Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici, who became the head of the business after the elder Lorenzo's death in 1492. In March 1492, the Medici dispatched the thirty-eight-year-old Vespucci and Donato Niccolini as confidential agents to look into the Medici branch office in Cádiz (Spain), whose managers and dealings were under suspicion.\n\nIn April 1495, by the intrigues of Bishop Juan Rodríguez de Fonseca, the Crown of Castile broke their monopoly deal with Christopher Columbus and began handing out licenses to other navigators for the West Indies. Just around this time (1495–96), Vespucci was engaged as the executor of Giannotto Berardi, an Italian merchant who had recently died in Seville. Vespucci organized the fulfillment of Berardi's outstanding contract with the Castilian crown to provide twelve vessels for the Indies. After these were delivered, Vespucci continued as a provision contractor for Indies expeditions, and is known to have secured beef supplies for at least one (if not two) of Columbus' voyages.\n\nVespucci claimed at the invitation of king Manuel I of Portugal, Vespucci participated as observer in several voyages that explored the east coast of South America between 1499 and 1502. On the first of these voyages Vespucci claimed he was aboard the ship that discovered that South America extended much further south than previously thought.\n\nVespucci's expeditions became known in Europe after two accounts attributed to Vespucci were published between 1502 and 1503.\n\nIn 1507, Martin Waldseemüller produced a world map on which he named the new continent America after the feminine Latin version of Vespucci's first name, which is Americus. In an accompanying book, Waldseemüller published one of the Vespucci accounts, which led to criticism that Vespucci was trying to upset Christopher Columbus' glory. However, the rediscovery in the 18th century of other letters by Vespucci has led to the view that the early published accounts, notably the Soderini Letter, could be fabrications, not by Vespucci, but by others.\n\nIn 1508, the position of chief of navigation of Spain (\"piloto mayor de Indias\") was created for Vespucci, with the responsibility of planning navigation for voyages to the Indies.\n\nTwo letters attributed to Vespucci were published during his lifetime. \"Mundus Novus\" (New World) was a Latin translation of a lost Italian letter sent from Lisbon to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici. It describes a voyage to South America in 1501–1502. \"Mundus Novus\" was published in late 1502 or early 1503 and soon reprinted and distributed in numerous European countries. \"Lettera di Amerigo Vespucci delle isole nuovamente trovate in quattro suoi viaggi\" (Letter of Amerigo Vespucci concerning the isles newly discovered on his four voyages), known as \"Lettera al Soderini\" or just \"Lettera\", was a letter in Italian addressed to Piero Soderini. Printed in 1504 or 1505, it claimed to be an account of four voyages to the Americas made by Vespucci between 1497 and 1504. A Latin translation was published by the German Martin Waldseemüller in 1507 in \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", a book on cosmography and geography, as \"Quattuor Americi Vespucij navigationes\" (Four Voyages of Amerigo Vespucci).\n\nOn March 22, 1508, King Ferdinand made Vespucci chief navigator of Spain at a huge salary and commissioned him to found a school of navigation, in order to standardize and modernize navigation techniques used by Iberian sea captains then exploring the world. Vespucci even developed a rudimentary, but fairly accurate method of determining longitude (which only more accurate chronometers would later improve upon).\nIn the 18th century, three unpublished familiar letters from Vespucci to Lorenzo de' Medici were rediscovered. One describes a voyage made in 1499–1500 which corresponds with the second of the \"four voyages\". Another was written from Cape Verde in 1501 in the early part of the third of the four voyages, before crossing the Atlantic. The third letter was sent from Lisbon after the completion of that voyage.\n\nSome have suggested that Vespucci, in the two letters published in his lifetime, was exaggerating his role and constructed deliberate fabrications. However, many scholars now believe that the two letters were not written by him but were fabrications by others based in part on genuine letters by Vespucci. It was the publication and widespread circulation of the letters that might have led Waldseemüller to name the new continent America on his world map of 1507 in Lorraine. Vespucci used a Latinised form of his name, \"Americus Vespucius\", in his Latin writings, which Waldseemüller used as a base for the new name, taking the feminine form \"America\", according to the prevalent view. The book accompanying the map stated: \"I do not see what right any one would have to object to calling this part, after Americus who discovered it and who is a man of intelligence, Amerige, that is, the Land of Americus, or America: since both Europa and Asia got their names from women\". It is possible that Vespucci was not aware that Waldseemüller had named the continent after him.\n\nThe two disputed letters claim that Vespucci made four voyages to America, while at most two can be verified from other sources. At the moment, there is a dispute between historians on when Vespucci visited the mainland the first time. Some historians like Germán Arciniegas and Gabriel Camargo Pérez think that his first voyage was made in June 1497 with the Spanish pilot Juan de la Cosa.\n\nVespucci's real historical importance may well rest more in his letters, whether he wrote them all or not, than in his discoveries. From these letters, the European public learned about the newly discovered continents of the Americas for the first time; their existence became generally known throughout Europe within a few years of the letters' publication. In his words:\"..concerning my return from those new regions which we found and explored ... we may rightly call a new world. Because our ancestors had no knowledge of them, and it will be a matter wholly new to all those who hear about them, for this transcends the view held by our ancients, inasmuch as most of them hold that there is no continent to the south beyond the equator, but only the sea which they named the Atlantic and if some of them did aver that a continent there was, they denied with abundant argument that it was a habitable land. But that this their opinion is false and utterly opposed to the truth ... my last voyage has made manifest; for in those southern parts I have found a continent more densely peopled and abounding in animals than our Europe Asia or Africa, and, in addition, a climate milder and more delightful than in any other region known to us, as you shall learn in the following account.\"\n\nThe first and fourth voyages are perhaps fabricated, but the second and third are certain.\n\nA letter published in 1504 purports to be an account by Vespucci, written to Soderini, of a lengthy visit to the New World, leaving Spain in May 1497 and returning in October 1498. However, some modern scholars have doubted that this voyage took place, and consider this letter a forgery. Whoever did write the letter makes several observations of native customs, including use of hammocks and sweat lodges.\n\nAbout 1499–1500, Vespucci joined an expedition in the service of Spain, with Alonso de Ojeda (or Hojeda) as the fleet commander. The intention was to sail around the southern end of the African mainland into the Indian Ocean. After hitting land at the coast of what is now Guyana, the two seem to have separated. Vespucci sailed southward, discovering the mouth of the Amazon River and reaching 6°S, before turning around and seeing Trinidad and the Orinoco River and returning to Spain by way of Hispaniola. The letter, to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici, claims that Vespucci determined his longitude celestially\n\non August 23, 1499, while on this voyage. However, that claim may be fraudulent, which could cast doubt on the letter's credibility.\n\nThe last certain voyage of Vespucci was led by Gonçalo Coelho in 1501–1502 in the service of Portugal. Departing from Lisbon, the fleet sailed first to Cape Verde where they met two of Pedro Álvares Cabral's ships returning from India. In a letter from Cape Verde, Vespucci says that he hopes to visit the same lands that Álvares Cabral had explored, suggesting that the intention is to sail west to Asia, as on the 1499–1500 voyage. On reaching the coast of Brazil, they sailed south along the coast of South America to Rio de Janeiro's bay. If his own account is to be believed, he reached the latitude of Patagonia before turning back, although this also seems doubtful, since his account does not mention the broad estuary of the Río de la Plata, which he must have seen if he had gotten that far south. Portuguese maps of South America, created after the voyage of Coelho and Vespucci, do not show any land south of present-day Cananéia at 25° S, so this may represent the southernmost extent of their voyages.\n\nAfter the first half of the expedition, Vespucci mapped Alpha and Beta Centauri, as well as the constellation Crux, the Southern Cross and the Coalsack Nebula. Although these stars had been known to the ancient Greeks, gradual precession had lowered them below the European horizon so that they had been forgotten. On his return to Lisbon, Vespucci wrote in a letter from Seville to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici that the land masses they explored were much larger than anticipated and different from the Asia described by Ptolemy or Marco Polo and therefore, must be a New World, that is, a previously unknown fourth continent, after Europe, Asia, and Africa.\n\nVespucci's fourth voyage was another expedition for the Portuguese crown down the eastern coast of Brazil, that set out in May 1503 and returned to Portugal in June 1504. Like his alleged first voyage, Vespucci's last voyage in 1503–1504 is also disputed to have taken place. The only source of information for the last voyage is the \"Letter to Soderini\", but as several modern scholars dispute Vespucci's authorship of the letter to Soderini, it is also sometimes doubted whether Vespucci undertook this trip. However, Portuguese documents do confirm a voyage to Brazil was undertaken in 1503–04 by the captain Gonçalo Coelho, very likely the same captain of the 1501 mapping expedition (Vespucci's third voyage), and so it is quite possible that Vespucci went on board this one as well. However, it is not independently confirmed Vespucci was aboard and there are some difficulties in the reported dates and details.\n\nThe letters caused controversy after Vespucci's death, especially among the supporters of Columbus who believed Columbus' priority for the discovery of America was being undermined, and seriously damaged Vespucci's reputation.\n\nVespucci was a cousin of the husband of Simonetta Vespucci. He married Maria Cerezo. One of the very few references to Amerigo's wife is contained in a royal decree dated May 22, 1512, giving his widow, Maria Cerezo a lifetime pension of ten thousand maravedís per annum deducted from the salary of her husband's successor.\n\nNot long after his return to Spain, Vespucci became a Spanish citizen. On March 22, 1508 he was made the pilot major of Spain by Ferdinand II of Aragon in honor of his discoveries. Vespucci also ran a school for navigators in the Spanish House of Trade, based in Seville.\n\nHe died on February 22, 1512 at his home in Seville, Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "21492915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492915", "title": "Australasia", "text": "Australasia\n\nAustralasia, a region of Oceania, comprises Australia, New Zealand, neighbouring islands in the Pacific Ocean and, sometimes, the island of New Guinea (which is usually considered to be part of Melanesia). Charles de Brosses coined the term (as French \"Australasie\") in \"Histoire des navigations aux terres australes\" (1756). He derived it from the Latin for \"south of Asia\" and differentiated the area from Polynesia (to the east) and the southeast Pacific (Magellanica). The bulk of Australasia sits on the Indo-Australian Plate, together with India.\n\nPhysiographically, Australasia includes New Zealand, Australia (including Tasmania), and Melanesia: Papua New Guinea and neighbouring islands north and east of Australia in the Pacific Ocean. The designation is sometimes applied to all the lands and islands of the Pacific Ocean lying between the equator and latitude 47° south. Papua New Guinea also includes approximately 600 offshore islands.\n\nMost of Australasia lies on the southern portion of the Indo-Australian Plate, flanked by the Indian Ocean to the west and the Southern Ocean to the south. Peripheral territories lie on the Eurasian Plate to the northwest, the Philippine Plate to the north, and in the Pacific Ocean – including numerous marginal seas – atop the Pacific Plate to the north and east.\n\nGeopolitically, \"Australasia\" sometimes refers to Australia and New Zealand togetherin the absence of another word limited to those two countries; however, the two countries are sometimes referred to collectively as the Antipodes. Sometimes the term also encompasses the island of New Guinea (Papua New Guinea and the Indonesian part of the island). Many organisations whose names include the prefix \"[Royal] Australasian Society of ...\" limit their scope of operation to just Australia and New Zealand.\n\nIn the past, Australasia has been used as a name for combined Australia/New Zealand sporting teams. Examples include tennis between 1905 and 1915, when New Zealand and Australia combined to compete in the Davis Cup international tournament, and at the Olympic Games of 1908 and 1912.\n\nAnthropologists, although disagreeing on details, generally support theories that call for a Southeastern Asian origin of indigenous island peoples in Australasia and neighboring subregions. The first human habitation of Australia is estimated to have occurred 50,000 or more years ago. These first Australians were the ancestors of the Aboriginal Australians, who form the majority of today's indigenous Australians. They were mostly hunter-gatherers and arrived via land bridges and short sea-crossings from present-day Southeast Asia.\n\nFrom an ecological perspective the Australasia ecozone forms a distinct region with a common geologic and evolutionary history and a great many unique flora and fauna. In this context, Australasia is limited to Australia, New Guinea, New Zealand, New Caledonia, and neighbouring islands, including the Indonesian islands from Lombok and Sulawesi eastward. The Wallace Line marks the biological divide from the Indomalaya ecozone of tropical Asia – Borneo and Bali lie on the western, Asian side.\n\nAustralia, New Zealand and New Caledonia are all fragments of the ancient supercontinent Gondwana, the marks of which are still visible in the Christmas Island Seamount Province and other geophysical entities. These three land masses have been separated from other continents, and from one another, for millions of years. All of Australasia shares the Antarctic flora, although the northern, tropical islands also share many plants with Southeast Asia.\n\nMainland Australia, New Guinea and Tasmania are separated from one another by shallow continental shelves, and were linked together when the sea level was lower during the Ice Ages. They share a similar fauna which includes marsupial and monotreme mammals and ratite birds. Eucalypts are the predominant trees in much of Australia and New Guinea. New Zealand has no extant native land mammals aside from bats (though it once did), but also had ratite birds, including the kiwi and the extinct moa. The Australasia ecozone includes some nearby island groups, like Wallacea, the Bismarck Archipelago, Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu, which were not formerly part of Gondwana, but which share many characteristic plants and animals with Australasia.\n\nThe Australasian ecozone is an ecological region that is coincident, but not synonymous (by some definitions), with the geographic region of Australasia. The ecozone includes Australia, the island of New Guinea (including Papua New Guinea and the Indonesian province of Papua), and the eastern part of the Indonesian archipelago, including the island of Sulawesi, the Maluku islands (the Indonesian provinces of Maluku and North Maluku) and islands of Lombok, Sumbawa, Sumba, Flores and Timor, often known as the Lesser Sundas. The Australasian ecozone also includes several Pacific island groups, including the Bismarck Archipelago, Vanuatu, the Solomon Islands, and New Caledonia. New Zealand and its surrounding islands are a distinctive sub-region of the Australasian ecozone. The rest of Indonesia is part of the Indomalayan ecozone.\n\nFrom a biological point of view, Australasia is a distinct region with a common evolutionary history and a great many unique plants and animals, some of them common to the entire area, others specific to particular parts but sharing a common ancestry. The long isolation of Australasia from other continents allowed it to evolve relatively independently, which makes it home to many unique families of plants and animals.\n\nAustralia and New Guinea are distinguished by their marsupial mammals, including kangaroos, possums, and wombats. The last remaining monotreme mammals, the echidnas and the platypus, are endemic to Australasia. Prior to the arrival of humans about 50,000 years ago, only about one-third of Australasian mammal species were placental.\n\nThe boundary between Australasia and Indomalaya follows the Wallace Line, named after the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace who noted the differences in mammal and bird fauna between the islands either side of the line. The Islands to the west of the line, including Java, Bali, Borneo, and the Philippines share a similar fauna with East Asia, including tigers, rhinoceros, and apes. During the ice ages, sea levels were lower, exposing the continental shelf that links these islands to one another and to Asia, and allowed Asian land animals to inhabit these islands. Similarly, Australia and New Guinea are linked by a shallow continental shelf, and were linked by a land bridge during the ice ages. A group of Australasian islands east of the Wallace Line, including Sulawesi, Halmahera, Lombok, Flores, Sumba, Sumbawa, and Timor, is separated by deep water from both the southeast Asian continental shelf and the Australia-New Guinea continental shelf. These islands are called Wallacea, and contain relatively few Australian or Asian mammals. While most land mammals found it difficult to cross the Wallace Line, many plant, bird, and reptile species were better able to make the crossing.\n\nAustralia, New Zealand, and New Caledonia are all portions of the ancient supercontinent of Gondwana, which started to break into smaller continents in the Cretaceous era, 130-65 million years ago. New Zealand broke away first, more than 80 million years ago, and Australia finally broke free from Antarctica about 45 million years ago. All the Australasian lands are home to the Antarctic flora, descended from the flora of southern Gondwana, including the coniferous podocarps and \"Araucaria\" pines, and the broadleafed southern beech (\"Nothofagus\"), and proteas (\"Proteaceae\").\n\nAs Australia moved north into the desert latitudes, the continent became hotter and drier, and the soils poorer and leached of nutrients, causing the old Antarctic flora to retreat to the humid corners of the continent in favor of new drought and fire tolerant flora, dominated by the \"Eucalyptus, Casuarina,\" and \"Acacia\" trees, and by grasses and scrub where the rainfall was too scarce to support trees. Presently Australia is the smallest continent, and also the driest continent and the flattest (lowest in elevation) continent.\n\n"}
{"id": "10746842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10746842", "title": "Basin and range topography", "text": "Basin and range topography\n\nBasin and range topography is an alternating landscape of parallel mountain ranges and valleys. It is a result of crustal extension/stretching (extensional tectonics) of the lithosphere (crust and upper mantle) due to mantle upwelling, gravitational collapse, crustal thickening, or relaxation of confining stresses. Crustal extension causes the thinning and deformation of the upper crust in an orientation perpendicular to the direction of extension. As the plates pull apart, they thin allowing the hot mantle to rise close to the surface. When the crust is extended it fractures along a fault plane, creating a series of long parallel normal faults. Between these normal faults are blocks, which subside, get uplifted or tilted. This is known as block faulting. Basins are formed due to subsidence of a block, while the blocks adjacent to the subsidence gets uplifted creating ranges. Normal faults are on both sides the blocks; creating alternating elevated or subsided blocks, otherwise known as horst and graben. Basins and ranges can also be formed by blocks that are tilted causing one side to subside while the other side gets uplifted. These only have one side with a normal fault, this is known as tilted block faulting. Extension causes the plate to stretch, fracture and thin. Mountains rise and valleys drop, over a long period of time creating what we see as basin and range topography.\n\nClarence Dutton, an early pioneering geologist, described the basin and range topography of parallel mountains and valleys as \"army of caterpillars marching toward Mexico.\"\n\nWith crustal extension, a series of normal faults which occur in groups, form in close proximity and dipping in opposite directions. As the crust extends it fractures in series of fault planes, some blocks sink down due to gravity, creating long linear valleys or basins also known as grabens. While the blocks remaining up or uplifted produce mountains or ranges, also known as horsts. Fault scarps are exposed on the horst block and expose the footwall of the normal fault. This is a type of block faulting known as grabens and horsts. This basin and range topography is symmetrical having equal slopes on both sides of the valleys and mountain ranges.\n\nTilted block faulting, also known as half-graben or rotational block faulting, can also occur during extension. Large gently dipping normal faults, also known as detachment faults, acts as platform in which normal faulted blocks, tilt or slide along. However, instead of the whole block subsiding only one side if the block will slip along the detachment fault, tilting toward the fault plane. Again creating mountains (ranges) and valleys (basins). Many tilted slightly in one direction at their tops due to the motion of their bottoms along the main detachment fault. This basin and range topography has one steep side and the other is more gradual.\n\nOne of the most studied basin and range topographies is the Basin and Range Province in the western United States, located between the Sierra Nevada and the Rocky Mountains. The extension of the province was believed to have begun in the late Cenozoic Era, roughly 20 Ma. During the 90s scientists used a network of Global Positioning System (GPS) to determine the velocity magnitude and vector orientations of the Basin and Range province. In the study by Thatcher et al. they discovered that most deformation was happening in the west, adjacent to the Sierra Nevada block and while less deformation was happening in the east. Because the extension of the basin and range hits the Sierra Nevada batholith, it essentially is hitting a solid wall, therefore the strain is transferred to smaller faults along the eastern side of the Sierra Nevada. That might account for the slight northwestern extension in the northern part of the Basin and Range province.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25046993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25046993", "title": "Biebrza Marshes", "text": "Biebrza Marshes\n\nThe Biebrza Marshes (Biebrza Valley) are a wetland complex, located on the Biebrza river valley, in Suwałki, Łomża in the northeast of Poland. The area encompasses river channels, lakes, extensive marshes with wooded areas on higher ground and well-preserved peat bogs that occupy around 1,000 km. The area shows a clear succession of habitats from riverside fen through to raised bogs, grading into wet woodland. Because of this unique succession, the area supports a wide diversity of wildlife with large numbers of birds and mammals. Over 250 species of birds have been recorded including more than 80% of the Polish avifauna. Starting in the early spring mating birds attract birdwatchers from around the world.\n\nThe marshes in the area are commonly flooded and the resulting alluvial soil supports an array of wetland vegetation.\n\nIt is one of the largest wildlife refuges in Europe. The greater part of this area is the Biebrza National Park, covered by the Ramsar Convention to protect the wetlands and bird breeding grounds.\n\nIn the area of the Biebrza Marshes 43 plant associations were distinguished, some rarely seen in other parts of Poland. Major communities are water, marsh, peat, reeds and forest communities including (alder, birch, riparian forests). Particularly valuable is a large group of sedge-moss communities, containing many rare and relict species, disappearing in other parts of the country.\n\nThe vegetation is characterized by great diversity, a high degree of naturalness and the presence of many rare species, such as:\n\nBiebrza Marshes are the most important breeding area for many wetland bird species in Poland and amongst the most important in Central and Western Europe. This importance is increasing as wetlands are disappearing from the landscape of Europe. Biebrza Valley is of great importance for many species of birds feeding and resting during the annual migrations. There are also boreal breeding species, and species whose geographical center is located in the taiga and tundra zone. \n\nAmong the mammals in the Biebrza Marshes are:\n\nIn the waters of Biebrza, there are approximately 36 species of fish such as pike, Wels catfish, eel, and also typical of the foothills of chub and barbel.\n\n"}
{"id": "420598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420598", "title": "Biochemical oxygen demand", "text": "Biochemical oxygen demand\n\nBiochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD, also called Biological Oxygen Demand) is the amount of dissolved oxygen needed (i.e. demanded) by aerobic biological organisms to break down organic material present in a given water sample at certain temperature over a specific time period. The BOD value is most commonly expressed in milligrams of oxygen consumed per litre of sample during 5 days of incubation at 20 °C and is often used as a surrogate of the degree of organic pollution of water.\n\nBOD can be used as a gauge of the effectiveness of wastewater treatment plants. It is listed as a conventional pollutant in the U.S. Clean Water Act.\n\nBOD is similar in function to chemical oxygen demand (COD), in that both measure the amount of organic compounds in water. However, COD is less specific, since it measures everything that can be chemically oxidized, rather than just levels of biodegradable organic matter.\n\nMost natural waters contain small quantities of organic compounds. Aquatic microorganisms have evolved to use some of these compounds as food. Microorganisms living in oxygenated waters use dissolved oxygen to oxidatively degrade the organic compounds, releasing energy which is used for growth and reproduction. Populations of these microorganisms tend to increase in proportion to the amount of food available. This microbial metabolism creates an oxygen demand proportional to the amount of organic compounds useful as food. Under some circumstances, microbial metabolism can consume dissolved oxygen faster than atmospheric oxygen can dissolve into the water or the autotrophic community (algae, cyanobacteria and macrophytes) can produce. Fish and aquatic insects may die when oxygen is depleted by microbial metabolism.\n\nBiochemical oxygen demand is the amount of oxygen required for microbial metabolism of organic compounds in water. This demand occurs over some variable period of time depending on temperature, nutrient concentrations, and the enzymes available to indigenous microbial populations. The amount of oxygen required to completely oxidize the organic compounds to carbon dioxide and water through generations of microbial growth, death, decay, and cannibalism is total biochemical oxygen demand (total BOD). Total BOD is of more significance to food webs than to water quality. Dissolved oxygen depletion is most likely to become evident during the initial aquatic microbial population explosion in response to a large amount of organic material. If the microbial population deoxygenates the water, however, that lack of oxygen imposes a limit on population growth of aerobic aquatic microbial organisms resulting in a longer term food surplus and oxygen deficit.\n\nA standard temperature at which BOD testing should be carried out was first proposed by the Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal in its eighth report in 1912:\n\" (c) An effluent in order to comply with the general standard must not contain as discharged more than 3 parts per 100,000 of suspended matter, and with its suspended matters included must not take up at 65°F more than 2.0 parts per 100,000 of dissolved oxygen in 5 days. This general standard should be prescribed either by Statute or by order of the Central Authority, and should be subject to modifications by that Authority after an interval of not less than ten years.\nThis was later standardised at 68 °F and then 20 °C. This temperature may be significantly different from the temperature of the natural environment of the water being tested.\n\nAlthough the Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal proposed 5 days as an adequate test period for rivers of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, longer periods were investigated for North American rivers. Incubation periods of 1, 2, 5, 10 and 20 days were being used into the mid-20th century. Keeping dissolved oxygen available at their chosen temperature, investigators found up to 99 percent of total BOD was exerted within 20 days, 90 percent within 10 days, and approximately 68 percent within 5 days. Variable microbial population shifts to nitrifying bacteria limit test reproducibility for periods greater than 5 days. The 5-day test protocol with acceptably reproducible results emphasizing carbonaceous BOD has been endorsed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. This 5-day BOD test result may be described as the amount of oxygen required for aquatic microorganisms to stabilize decomposable organic matter under aerobic conditions. Stabilization, in this context, may be perceived in general terms as the conversion of food to living aquatic fauna. Although these fauna will continue to exert biochemical oxygen demand as they die, that tends to occur within a more stable evolved ecosystem including higher trophic levels.\nMost pristine rivers will have a 5-day carbonaceous BOD below 1 mg/L. Moderately polluted rivers may have a BOD value in the range of 2 to 8 mg/L. Rivers may be considered severely polluted when BOD values exceed 8 mg/L. Municipal sewage that is efficiently treated by a three-stage process would have a value of about 20 mg/L or less. Untreated sewage varies, but averages around 600 mg/L in Europe and as low as 200 mg/L in the U.S., or where there is severe groundwater or surface water Infiltration/Inflow. The generally lower values in the U.S. derive from the much greater water use per capita than in other parts of the world.\n\nThere are two commonly recognized methods for the measurement of BOD.\n\nThis standard method is recognized by U.S. EPA, which is labeled Method 5210B in the Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater \nIn order to obtain BOD, dissolved oxygen (DO) concentrations in a sample must be measured before and after the incubation period, and appropriately adjusted by the sample corresponding dilution factor. This analysis is performed using 300 ml incubation bottles in which buffered dilution water is dosed with seed microorganisms and stored for 5 days in the dark room at 20 °C to prevent DO production via photosynthesis. In addition to the various dilutions of BOD samples, this procedure requires dilution water blanks, glucose glutamic acid (GGA) controls, and seed controls. The dilution water blank is used to confirm the quality of the dilution water that is used to dilute the other samples. This is necessary because impurities in the dilution water may cause significant alterations in the results. The GGA control is a standardized solution to determine the quality of the seed, where its recommended BOD concentration is 198 mg/l ± 30.5 mg/l.\nFor measurement of carbonaceous BOD (cBOD), a nitrification inhibitor is added after the dilution water has been added to the sample. The inhibitor hinders the oxidation of ammonia nitrogen, which supplies the nitrogenous BOD (nBOD). When performing the BOD test, it is conventional practice to measure only cBOD because nitrogenous demand does not reflect the oxygen demand from organic matter. This is because nBOD is generated by the breakdown of proteins, whereas cBOD is produced by the breakdown of organic molecules.\n\nBOD is calculated by:\n\nwhere:\n\nThis method is limited to the measurement of the oxygen consumption due only to carbonaceous oxidation. Ammonia oxidation is inhibited.\n\nThe sample is kept in a sealed container fitted with a pressure sensor. A substance that absorbs carbon dioxide (typically lithium hydroxide) is added in the container above the sample level. The sample is stored in conditions identical to the dilution method. Oxygen is consumed and, as ammonia oxidation is inhibited, carbon dioxide is released. The total amount of gas, and thus the pressure, decreases because carbon dioxide is absorbed. From the drop of pressure, the sensor electronics computes and displays the consumed quantity of oxygen.\n\nThe main advantages of this method compared to the dilution method are:\n\nAn alternative to measure BOD is the development of biosensors, which are devices for the detection of an analyte that combines a biological component with a physicochemical detector component. Enzymes are the most widely used biological sensing elements in the fabrication of biosensors. Their application in biosensor construction is limited by the tedious, time consuming and costly enzyme purification methods. Microorganisms provide an ideal alternative to these bottlenecks.\n\nMany micro organisms useful for BOD assessment are relatively easy to maintain in pure cultures, grow and harvest at low cost. Moreover, the use of microbes in biosensor field has opened up new possibilities and advantages such as ease of handling, preparation and low cost of device. A number of pure cultures, e.g. \"Trichosporon cutaneum, Bacillus cereus, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas sp.\" etc. individually, have been used by many workers for the construction of BOD biosensor. On the other hand, many workers have immobilized activated sludge, or a mixture of two or three bacterial species and on various membranes for the construction of BOD biosensor. The most commonly used membranes were polyvinyl alcohol, porous hydrophilic membranes etc.\n\nA defined microbial consortium can be formed by conducting a systematic study, i.e. pre-testing of selected micro-organisms for use as a seeding material in BOD analysis of a wide variety of industrial effluents. Such a formulated consortium can be immobilized on suitable membrane, i.e. charged nylon membrane useful for BOD estimation. Suitability of charges nylon membrane lies in the specific binding between negatively charged bacterial cell and positively charged nylon membrane. So the advantages of the nylon membrane over the other membranes are : The dual binding, i.e. Adsorption as well as entrapment, thus resulting in a more stable immobilized membrane. Such specific Microbial consortium based BOD analytical devices, may find great application in monitoring of the degree of pollutional strength, in a wide variety of Industrial waste water within a very short time.\n\nBiosensors can be used to indirectly measure BOD via a fast (usually <30 min) to be determined BOD substitute and a corresponding calibration curve method (pioneered by Karube et al., 1977). Consequently, biosensors are now commercially available, but they do have several limitations such as their high maintenance costs, limited run lengths due to the need for reactivation, and the inability to respond to changing quality characteristics as would normally occur in wastewater treatment streams; e.g. diffusion processes of the biodegradable organic matter into the membrane and different responses by different microbial species which lead to problems with the reproducibility of result (Praet et al., 1995). Another important limitation is the uncertainty associated with the calibration function for translating the BOD substitute into the real BOD (Rustum \"et al.\", 2008).\n\nA surrogate to BOD has been developed using a resazurin derivative which reveals the extent of oxygen uptake by micro-organisms for organic matter mineralization. A cross-validation performed on 109 samples in Europe and the United-States showed a strict statistical equivalence between results from both methods. The French start-up Envolure (Montpellier, France) offers the kit ENVERDI which enables the users to perform up to 40 BOD simultaneously in 48 hours in a single 96-wells microplate.\n\nRustum et al. (2008) proposed the use of the KSOM to develop intelligent models for making rapid inferences about BOD using other easy to measure water quality parameters, which, unlike BOD, can be obtained directly and reliably using on-line hardware sensors. This will make the use of BOD for on-line process monitoring and control a more plausible proposition. In comparison to other data-driven modeling paradigms such as multi-layer perceptrons artificial neural networks (MLP ANN) and classical multi-variate regression analysis, the KSOM is not negatively affected by missing data. Moreover, time sequencing of data is not a problem when compared to classical time series analysis.\n\nSince the publication of a simple, accurate and direct dissolved oxygen analytical procedure by Winkler, the analysis of dissolved oxygen levels for water has been key to the determination of surface water purity and ecological wellness. The Winkler method is still one of only two analytical techniques used to calibrate oxygen electrode meters; the other procedure is based on oxygen solubility at saturation as per Henry's law. Though many researchers have refined the Winkler analysis to dissolved oxygen levels in the low PPB range, the method does not lend itself to automation.\n\nThe development of an analytical instrument that utilizes the reduction-oxidation (redox) chemistry of oxygen in the presence of dissimilar metal electrodes was introduced during the 1950s. This redox electrode (also known as dissolved oxygen sensor) utilized an oxygen-permeable membrane to allow the diffusion of the gas into an electrochemical cell and its concentration determined by polarographic or galvanic electrodes. This analytical method is sensitive and accurate to down to levels of ± 0.1 mg/l dissolved oxygen. Calibration of the redox electrode of this membrane electrode still requires the use of the Henry's law table or the Winkler test for dissolved oxygen.\nDuring the last two decades, a new form of electrode was developed based on the luminescence emission of a photo active chemical compound and the quenching of that emission by oxygen. It is also called optical dissolved oxygen sensor. This quenching photophysics mechanism is described by the Stern–Volmer equation for dissolved oxygen in a solution:\n\n\nThe determination of oxygen concentration by luminescence quenching has a linear response over a broad range of oxygen concentrations and has excellent accuracy and reproducibility. \nThere are several recognized EPA methods for the measurement of dissolved oxygen for BOD, including the following methods:\n\nThe test method involves variables limiting reproducibility. Tests normally show observations varying plus or minus ten to twenty percent around the mean.\n\nSome wastes contain chemicals capable of suppressing microbiological growth or activity. Potential sources include industrial wastes, antibiotics in pharmaceutical or medical wastes, sanitizers in food processing or commercial cleaning facilities, chlorination disinfection used following conventional sewage treatment, and odor-control formulations used in sanitary waste holding tanks in passenger vehicles or portable toilets. Suppression of the microbial community oxidizing the waste will lower the test result.\n\nThe test relies upon a microbial ecosystem with enzymes capable of oxidizing the available organic material. Some waste waters, such as those from biological secondary sewage treatment, will already contain a large population of microorganisms acclimated to the water being tested. An appreciable portion of the waste may be utilized during the holding period prior to commencement of the test procedure. On the other hand, organic wastes from industrial sources may require specialized enzymes. Microbial populations from standard seed sources may take some time to produce those enzymes. A specialized seed culture may be appropriate to reflect conditions of an evolved ecosystem in the receiving waters.\n\nThe \"Royal Commission on River Pollution\", which was established in 1865 and the formation of the \"Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal\" in 1898 led to the selection in 1908 of BOD as the definitive test for organic pollution of rivers. Five days was chosen as an appropriate test period because this is supposedly the longest time that river water takes to travel from source to estuary in the U.K.. In its sixth report the Royal Commission recommended that the standard set should be 15 parts by weight per million of water. However, in the Ninth report the commission had revised the recommended standard : \" An effluent taking up 2–0 parts dissolved oxygen per 100,000 would be found by a\nsimple calculation to require dilution with at least 8 volumes of river water taking up 0.2 part if the resulting mixture was not to take up more than 0.4 part. Our experience indicated that in a large majority of cases the volume of river water would exceed 8 times the volume of effluent, and that the figure of 2–0 parts dissolved oxygen per 100,000, which had been shown to be practicable, would be a safe figure to adopt for the purposes of a general standard, taken in conjunction with the condition that the effluent should not contain more than 3–0 parts per 100,000 of suspended solids.\" This was the cornerstone 20:30 (BOD:Suspended Solids) + full nitrification standard which was used as a yardstick in the U.K. up to the 1970s for sewage works effluent quality.\n\nThe United States includes BOD effluent limitations in its secondary treatment regulations. Secondary sewage treatment is generally expected to remove 85 percent of the BOD measured in sewage and produce effluent BOD concentrations with a 30-day average of less than 30 mg/L and a 7-day average of less than 45 mg/L. The regulations also describe \"treatment equivalent to secondary treatment\" as removing 65 percent of the BOD and producing effluent BOD concentrations with a 30-day average less than 45 mg/L and a 7-day average less than 65 mg/L.\n\n"}
{"id": "47260847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47260847", "title": "Budenec", "text": "Budenec\n\nBudenec is a village in Croatia. \n"}
{"id": "31131501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31131501", "title": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (J)", "text": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (J)\n\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | Y | Z\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8885379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8885379", "title": "Campidano", "text": "Campidano\n\nCampidano () is a plain located in the south-western area of Sardinia, Italy, covering approximately 100 kilometres between Cagliari and Oristano.\n\nGeologically, it is a graben, a tectonic structure formed in the mid-Pliocene/early Pleistocene (4 to 2 millions years ago). Later it was subject to large sedimentary deposition phenomena, creating an overall thickness of 600 m of sediments.\n\nThe plain is crossed by the Tirso River, the longest in Sardinia.\n\nAgriculture has been successful in Campidano since the Neolithic, continuing on through the Punic and the Romans, who cultivated here grains and grape. Dams of the large Sardinian rivers nourish the artichoke and wheat cultures, also typical products of this zone. Paddy fields are present near Oristano.\n\n"}
{"id": "11645479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11645479", "title": "Champel", "text": "Champel\n\nChampel is a neighborhood in the city of Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nChampel is widely considered a posh, high-class neighbourhood due to its numerous parks and natural spaces, very luxurious apartments and proximity to the city center. Residences mostly consist of mid-range to high-scale apartments. Champel is home to Cité Universitaire (), a hostel-like complex for students of the University of Geneva.\n\nChampel is in close proximity to Florissant, which like Champel is an exclusive neighborhood, bordered by the neighborhood of Eaux-Vives to the north, the municipality of Veyrier to the east, the municipality of Carouge to the south and the city center to the west, occupying an area of approximately 1.9 km.\n\nLe plateau de Champel (\"the plateau of Champel\") is the center of the neighborhood. Le parc Bertrand is a popular park, featuring a former primary school (which is now a day-care center), a fenced dog park, a playground for small children as well as a wading pool. The neo-gothic Tour-de-Champel (\"tower of Champel\") on the edge of the cliffs overlooking the Arve is a scenic view.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31834667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31834667", "title": "Commodification of nature", "text": "Commodification of nature\n\nThe commodification of nature is an area of research within critical environmental studies that is concerned with the ways in which natural entities and processes are made exchangeable through the market, and the implications thereof.\n\nDrawing upon the work of Karl Marx, Karl Polanyi, James O’Connor and David Harvey, this area of work is normative and critical, based in Marxist geography and political ecology. Theorists use a commodification framing in order to contest the perspectives of \"market environmentalism,\" which sees marketization as a solution to environmental degradation. The environment has been a key site of conflict between proponents of the expansion of market norms, relations and modes of governance and those who oppose such expansion. Critics emphasize the contradictions and undesirable physical and ethical consequences brought about by the commodification of natural resources (as inputs to production and products) and processes (environmental services or conditions).\n\nMost researchers who employ a commodification of nature framing invoke a Marxian conceptualization of commodities as \"objects produced for sale on the market\" that embody both use and exchange value. Commodification itself is a process by which goods and services not produced for sale are converted into an exchangeable form. It involves multiple elements, including privatization, alienation, individuation, abstraction, valuation and displacement.\n\nAs capitalism expands in breadth and depth, more and more things previously external to the system become “internalized,” including entities and processes that are usually considered \"natural.\" Nature, as a concept, however, is very difficult to define, with many layers of meaning, including external environments as well as humans themselves. Political ecology and other critical conceptions draw upon strands within Marxist geography that see nature as \"socially produced,\" with no neat boundary separating the \"social\" from the \"natural.\" Still, the commodification of entities and processes that are considered natural is viewed as a \"special case\" based on nature’s biophysical materiality, which \"shape[es] and condition[s] trajectories of commodification.\"\n\nThe commodification of nature has its origins in the rise of capitalism. In England and later elsewhere, \"enclosure\" involved attacks upon and eventual near-elimination of the commons—a long, contested and frequently violent process Marx referred to as \"primitive accumulation.\"\n\nClassical liberalism, the ideological aspect of this process, was closely bound to questions of the environment. Privatization was presented as \"more conducive to the careful stewardship of natural resources than the commons\" by thinkers like Bentham, Locke and Malthus. The neo-Malthusian discourse of Garrett Hardin’s \"Tragedy of the Commons\" (1968) parallels this perspective, reconceptualizing public goods as \"scarce commodities\" requiring either privatization or strong state control.\n\nEcology Against Capitalism\n\nAs Foster points out in \"Ecology Against Capitalism\", the environment is not a commodity (such as most things are treated in capitalism) but it is rather the biosphere that sustains all life that we know of. However, it is important to note that in our society, it is treated as a capitalistic value. For example, a price is put on lumber in a certain forest or the quality of water in a river or stream, or the minerals that are available under ground. These ways of putting a price on the ecosystem tend to forget to put a price on exploiting it. This can cause more damage to an ecosystem if the externalities for business are not taken into consideration. One way to fix this problem is taxes that will increase the cost of environmental damage. For example, a carbon tax would help society get off of fossil fuels and go towards renewables much faster. This is one step that many scientists and experts agree needs to happen in order to transition away from fossil fuels and delay or even prevent man made climate change. Deregulation of governmental programs such as the EPA, and other environmental organizations may be good for business, but it doesn't serve the people who must live on a more polluted earth.\n\nMarxists define capitalism as a socio-economic system whose central goal is the accumulation of more wealth through the production and exchange of commodities. While the commodity form is not unique to capitalism, in it economic production is motivated increasingly by exchange. Competition provides constant pressure for innovation and growth in a \"restless and unstable process,\" making the system expansionary and \"tendentially all-encompassing.\"\n\nThrough market globalization, the tendency Marx described in the \"Communist Manifesto\" in which \"[t]he need of a constantly expanding market for its products chases the bourgeoisie over the entire surface of the globe,\" capitalism converts nature into \"an appendage of the production process.\" As Neil Smith argues, \"[n]o part of the earth’s surface, the atmosphere, the oceans, the geological substratum, or the biological superstratum are immune from transformation by capital.\"\n\nSince the late 1980s, an ideology of “market environmentalism” has gained prominence within environmental policy. Such a perspective is based in neoclassical economic theory, which sees degradation as a result of the absence of prices in environmental goods. Market environmentalism gained widespread acceptance through the rise of neoliberalism, an approach to human affairs in which the \"free market\" is given priority and money-mediated relations are seen as the best way to deliver services.\n\nA neoliberal approach constructs nature as a \"world currency,\" valued in international markets and given \"the opportunity to earn its own right to survive.\" This \"selling nature to save it\" approach requires economic valuation — either indirectly, as with cost-benefit analysis and contingent valuation, or through direct commodification.\n\nWhile commodification efforts are propelled in large part by private firms seeking new areas of investment and avenues for the circulation of capital, there are also explicit policy prescriptions for privatization and market exchange of resources, production byproducts and processes as the best means to rationally manage and conserve the environment.\n\nThe commodification of nature occurs through two distinct \"moments\" as capitalization \"stretches\" its reach to include greater distances of space and time, and \"deepens\" to penetrate into more types of goods and services. External nature becomes an \"accumulation strategy\" for capital, through traditional examples like mining and agriculture as well as new \"commodity frontiers\" in bioprospecting and ecotourism.\n\nDavid Harvey sees this as \"the wholesale commodification of nature in all its forms,\" a \"new wave of ‘enclosing the commons’\" that employs environmentalism in the service of the rapid expansion of capitalism. This \"accumulation by dispossession\" releases assets at very low or zero cost, providing immediate profitability and counteracting overaccumulation.\n\nAt the most abstract level, commodification is a process through which qualitatively different things are made equivalent and exchangeable through the medium of money. By taking on a general quality of exchange value, they become commensurable. Commodification turns on this apparent dissolution of qualitative difference and its “renegotiation,” as commodities are standardized in order to maintain a constant identity across space and time.\n\nCommodity status is not something intrinsic to a natural entity, but is rather an assigned quality, brought about through an active process. The conversion of a whole class of goods or services necessitates changes in the way nature is conceptualized and discursively represented.\n\nThere is no \"single path\" to commodification. Noel Castree stresses that commodification in fact involves several interrelated aspects, or \"relational moments,\" that should not be confused or conflated as they can be employed independently of each other.\n\nPrivatization is the assigning of legal title to an entity or process. A commodity needs to be owned, either by an individual or a group, in order to be traded. Privatization of natural entities can entail enclosure or the representation thereof (as with intellectual property rights), and represents a shift in social relations, changing rights of access, use and disposal as things move from communally-, state- or unowned modes into private hands.\n\nAlienability is the capacity of a given commodity to be separated, physically and morally, from its seller. If a commodity is not alienable, it cannot be exchanged and is thus shielded from the market. For example, human organs might be privatized (owned by their bearer) but very rarely would they be considered alienable.\n\nIndividuation is the representational and physical act of separating a commodity from its supporting context through legal and/or material boundaries. This could involve \"splitting\" an ecosystem into legally-defined and tradable property rights to specific services or resources.\n\nAbstraction is the assimilation of a given thing into a broader type or process, the transformation of particular things into classes. Through \"functional abstraction\", \"wetlands\" are constructed as a generic category despite the uniqueness of physical sites and different gasses and activities are equated through carbon markets. Through \"spatial abstraction\" things in one place are treated as the same as things located elsewhere so that both can form part of the same market.\n\nValuation is the manifestation of all expressions of worth (aesthetic, practical, ethical, \"et cetera\") through a single exchange value. Monetization is thus foundational to capitalism, rendering things commensurable and exchangeable, allowing for the separation of production, circulation and consumption over great gulfs of time and space.\n\nDisplacement involves something appearing as \"something other than itself.\" Commodities might be better thought of as \"socio-natural relations\" than reified as things \"in and of themselves,\" but through spatio-temporal separation of producers and consumers, the histories and relations of commodities become obscured. This is Marx’s commodity fetishism, the \"making invisible\" of the social relationships and embeddedness of production.\n\nCritics see environmental degradation as stemming from these processes of commodification, and generally include at least implicit criticism of one or more aspect. There appear to be three broad \"problem areas\" from which the commodification of nature is critiqued: \"practical\", in terms of whether or not nature can be properly made into a commodity; \"moral\", in terms of the ethical implications of commodification; and \"consequential\", in terms of the effects of commodification on nature itself.\n\nMuch of the literature relates commodification of nature to the issue of materiality—the significance of biophysical properties and context. The qualitative differences of a heterogeneous biophysical world are seen to be analytically and practically significant, sources of unpredictability and resistance to human intention that also shape and provide opportunities for capital circulation and accumulation.\n\nThe tangible non-human world thus affects the construction of social and economic relations and practice, inscribing ecology in the dynamics of capital. While some \"natures\" are readily subsumed by capitalism, others \"resist\" complete commodification, displaying a form of \"agency.\" The ecological characteristics of marine fish, for example, affect the forms that privatization, industry structure and regulation can take. Water, also, does not commodify easily due to its physical properties, which leads to differentiation in its governing institutions.\n\nThe demarcation and pricing of nature-based commodities is thus problematic. Divisibility and exclusion are difficult, as it is often not possible to draw clean property rights around environmental services or resources. Likewise, pricing is a problem as many species, landscapes and services are unique or otherwise irreplaceable and incommensurable. Their monetary values are thus in many ways arbitrary, as they do not follow changes in quality or quantity but rather social preference, failing to convey \"real\" ecological value or reasons for conservation.\n\nA single monetary value also denies the multiplicity of values which could be attributed to nature — non-monetary systems of cultural and social importance. The environment can express relations between generations as a sort of heritage. Livelihood, territorial rights and \"sacredness\" poorly translate into prices, and dividing a communal-social value — a forest, for instance — into private property rights can undermine the relations and identity of a community.\n\nNeoliberal policies have been implicated in greatly altered patterns of access and use. Markets generally deal poorly with issues of procedural fairness and equitable distribution, and critics see commodification as producing greater levels of inequality in power and participation while reinforcing existing vulnerabilities. Ecosystem benefits might be considered \"normative public goods\" — even when commodified, there is a sense that individuals \"ought\" to not be excluded from access. When water privatization prices people out, for instance, a sense of use rights inspires protest. While neoliberal approaches are often presented as neutral or objective, they disguise highly political approaches to resources and the interests and power of certain actors.\n\nThrough commodification, natural entities and services become vehicles for the realization of profit, subject to the pressures of the market where efficiency overrides other concerns. With climate commodities, the profit motive incentivizes buyers and sellers to ignore the steady erosion of the climate mitigation goal. Market exchange is \"reason-blind,\" but without rational assessment of different strategies and the ecological importance of particular natural entities, commodification cannot effectively deliver on conservation.\n\nHarvey thus declares that there is something \"inherently anti-ecological\" about capitalist commodification. It ignores and simplifies complex relations, obscuring origins and narrowing things to a single service or standard unit. The treatment of things as the same for a particular end — either profit or a single utility — leads to a homogenization and simplification of the biophysical. As governments and private firms seek to maximize carbon content for emissions markets, they invest preferably in tree plantations over complex forest ecosystems, eliminating species diversity, density and resulting in domino effects on processes such as water flow.\n\nThe neglect of relational aspects also ignores the emergent and embedded character of ecosystem functions. Components are frequently dependent on each other and the result of interactions between biotic and non-biotic factors across space and at multiple levels. Alienation and individuation may thus be counterproductive to the provision of ecosystem services, and veils human perception of what an ecosystem is and how it functions—and consequently how to best conserve and repair it. John Bellamy Foster argues that neglect of such relational aspects is a result of economic reductionism. This reductionism leads to an inefficiency in promoting biodiversity since as ecosystems are simplified into more basic commodities they can no longer support as diverse a set of organisms as they could precommodification. This creates a concern that the commodification of nature lends itself toward undermining biodiversity through its pursuit of attaching a value to nature.\n\nKarl Polanyi voiced this concern when addressing the concept of treating nature as a commodity. If nature were treated as a commodity it would be concentrated down to its base parts and destroyed. Polanyi highlighted many of the concerns that contemporary environmentalists have by noting that nature's commodification would lead to its pollution, overuse, and eventually imperil human life \n\nWhen confronted with natural \"barriers to accumulation,\" capitalists attempt to overcome them through technical and social innovation. This often involves the modification of nature to fit the needs of production and exchange, allowing for fuller realization of profits. Nature is \"subsumed\" to capitalist accumulation, losing its \"independent\" capacity and approaching \"the archetype of a ‘pure’ commodity.\"\n\nHowever, as nature becomes \"rationalized\" and internalized, increasing the control of capitalists over exchange, production and distribution, a new contradiction emerges. Capitalist penetration into natural commodities can never be complete, because a certain amount of production, by definition, takes place prior to human intervention. Because natural entities and processes do not require capital or labor to be produced, and their social, cultural and/or ecological value \"exceeds\" the market value placed upon them, they are considered pseudo- or fictitious commodities. This basic fictitiousness is the origin of the material contradictions that arise when natural commodities are treated \"as if\" they were \"true\" commodities, as completely privatizable, alienable, separable, \"et cetera\".\n\nMany scholars believe that ecology and capitalism are against one another regarding climate change. As environmental economics is a relatively new field of study, and capitalism a significantly older economic system, radical change of current capitalist systems is highly unlikely while internalization of natural resources into the economy is much more feasible. John Bellamy Foster believes that commodification of nature might be more dangerous than the impending danger of climate change and ecologic disaster. Foster fears that commodification of nature might lead to a system that favors economy over ecology (endangering natural resources) and promote a form of neocolonialism that acknowledges the elements of capitalism, globalization, and cultural imperialism, but disregards the idea of colonialism altogether.\n\nAs fictitious commodities with origins outside of capitalist production, the value of nature, counter to the neoclassical assumption, \"cannot\" be fully accounted for in monetary terms, and there is a resultant tendency toward the overexploitation and \"underproduction\" of nature.\n\nNatural entities that are commodified are subjected to the competitive drive for accumulation. Capitalism is \"ecologically irrational,\" with a systematic tendency to overexploit its natural resource base. At the same time, what O’Connor terms the \"conditions of production\" (all the phenomena upon which capitalism depends but is unable to produce itself, including environmental conditions and processes) are subjected to indiscriminate degradation as they \"cannot\" be fully commodified. This is the \"second contradiction\" of capitalism, between the relations and forces of production and its conditions. Capitalism undermines its own production system, \"producing its own scarcity.\"\n\nRecruiting nature into relations of capitalist exchange \"incites a good deal of push back,\" as these entities and services \"matter a great deal to ordinary people.\" Social needs compete politically for access and control of an increasingly commodified nature, and as price is insufficient to resolve these competing claims, counter-movements emerge, expressing the \"crisis tendencies\" of capitalist nature through socio-political struggles over representation and access.\n\nProtest movements, transnational coalitions, instances of alternative practices and counter-discourses all fall within a broad tent of resistance struggles to \"reclaim the commons.\" This can be seen as Polanyi’s \"double movement,\" in which tendencies toward and against market coordination interact, based in a rejection of the treatment of the environment as alienable market goods.\n\nWhile there are numerous natural resources that are being capitalized upon all across the world, there are several more notable examples of commodification of nature. The following examples are some that are either more prevalent or larger in scale and scope.\n\nEmissions trading, commonly referred to as cap and trade, embodies commodification of nature in that it allows for the trade of pollution and emissions within a given limit for a specific environment. Rather than simply outright prohibiting or allowing pollution and other various negative externalities, cap and trade essentially permits members of an industry to buy and sell units of emission with a maximum set for the industry as a whole.\n\nWhile there are various outlooks on whether emissions trading is effective in cutting emissions or pollution, it is pertinent to understand that this concept takes a company or individual's emissions and presents them as something that can be bought or sold on a specialized market.\n\nAs capitalism has spread in leaps and bounds, so too has its reach on previously universal resources; one such resource is drinking water. As more and more people struggle to find access to clean water, a major economic industry has formed in response, striving to provide this resource to consumers.\n\nWater, a fundamental resource to human survival, now is a multibillion dollar industry. Essentially what this means is that something that used to be completely free and public has been taken and turned into a privatized service. One modern example of water commodification is the current conflict going on in Flint, Michigan.\n\nAs petroleum has begun to be used for fuel and other various mechanical and transportation uses, the demand for the natural resource has skyrocketed. As a result, an economic industry has formed that completely revolves around the extraction and sale of the resource. By extension, many other industries also rely on the resource such as the automotive industry or anyone that relies on transportation for their business.\n\nOil is just one of many natural resources being taken from the environment to be sold in markets of various size and influence across the globe. What sets this resource apart from others, however, is that so many other industries are reliant upon oil that it has become one of the most sought after resources across the world.\n\n\nNotable contemporary studies concerning the commodification of nature include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4599256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599256", "title": "Cross-Niger transition forests", "text": "Cross-Niger transition forests\n\nThe Cross-Niger transition forests are a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of southeastern Nigeria, located between the Niger River on the west and the Cross River on the east. Once a rich mixture of tropical forest and savanna woodland covered these low, rolling hills but today this is one of the most densely populated areas of Africa and today most of the forest has been removed and the area is now grassland.\n\nThe ecoregion extends across the Nigerian states of Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Ebonyi, and Imo, covering an area of . The Niger River separates the Cross-Niger transition forests from the Nigerian lowland forests to the west, which probably resembles most closely the original environment of the Cross-Niger ecoregion. To the south and south-west lies the Niger Delta swamp forests. To the north, the Cross-Niger transition forests yield to the Guinean forest-savanna mosaic of the drier interior. \n\nThe climate is wet, becoming drier further inland, with a dry season from December to February.\n\nThe traditional flora and fauna of the ecoregion is \"transitional\", blending elements from the Upper Guinean forests of West Africa and the Lower Guinean-Congolian forests of Central Africa, which constitute the largest blocks of tropical moist forest on the African continent. Trees in the area include Afzelia, which is cultivated for timber, and the Borassus aethiopum palm.\n\nSmall areas of protected forest do remain within the grassland and these are home to animals such as Sclater's guenon and crested chameleon (Chamaeleo cristatus). The Niger River has always been a substantial barrier to movement of wildlife in and out of the region. Large mammals have been depleted in the area since the 1940s and there is now so little wildlife remaining in the area that even bats and frogs are now trapped and eaten.\n\nThe ecoregion has sustained a dense human population for centuries, and much of the original forest cover has been cleared for agriculture, forest plantations, and urban developments such as the oil refineries of Port Harcourt. The few remaining enclaves of native forest include the Stubbs Creek Forest Reserve in Akwa Ibom together with some enclaves of sacred forest, which are continually disappearing as village life is eroded, and patches of riverine forest. There are forest reserves in Anambra and elsewhere but these last are mostly for the purpose of cultivating timber rather than preserving the original environment.\n\nThis is a high level of crime in this part of the world and as of November 2009 the British Government were advising against all but essential travel to Akwa Ibom, especially along the rivers, and warning against the risk of armed robbery in Anambra and Abia also.\n"}
{"id": "1570882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570882", "title": "D'Abruzzo", "text": "D'Abruzzo\n\nD'Abruzzo is an Italian surname meaning \"of Abruzzo\". Notable people with this surname include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "3709430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3709430", "title": "Fehmarn Belt", "text": "Fehmarn Belt\n\nFehmarn Belt (), (, former spelling \"Femer Bælt\"; ) is a strait connecting the Bay of Kiel and the Bay of Mecklenburg in the western part of the Baltic Sea between the German island of Fehmarn and the Danish island of Lolland. Ferries operated by Scandlines connect Puttgarden and Rødby on the two islands.\n\nThe strait features an 18-kilometre (10 nmi) wide area with depths of 20–30 metres. Currents in the strait are weak and mostly dependent on wind.\n\nIt was initially swum across by Christof Wandratsch.\n\nThe Danish and German governments agreed on 29 June 2007 to build a fixed link to replace the ferry route. It is to save an hour on crossing the strait, and provide more crossing capacity.\n\nIn 2011, the Danish parliament voted overwhelmingly (with seven of eight parties supporting) for the €5.1 billion project that is intended to open in 2020. The tunnel is to have three separate bores, two containing two motorway lanes each, and one with a double-track railway line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286837", "title": "Fluvial processes", "text": "Fluvial processes\n\nIn geography and geology, fluvial processes are associated with rivers and streams and the deposits and landforms created by them. When the stream or rivers are associated with glaciers, ice sheets, or ice caps, the term glaciofluvial or fluvioglacial is used.\n\nFluvial processes include the motion of sediment and erosion or deposition on the river bed.\n\nErosion by moving water can happen in two ways. Firstly, the movement of water across the stream bed exerts a shear stress directly onto the bed. If the cohesive strength of the substrate is lower than the shear exerted, or the bed is composed of loose sediment which can be mobilized by such stresses, then the bed will be lowered purely by clearwater flow. However, if the river carries significant quantities of sediment, this material can act as tools to enhance wear of the bed (abrasion). At the same time the fragments themselves are ground down, becoming smaller and more rounded (attrition).\n\nSediment in rivers is transported as either bedload (the coarser fragments which move close to the bed) or suspended load (finer fragments carried in the water). There is also a component carried as dissolved material.\n\nFor each grain size there is a specific velocity at which the grains start to move, called \"entrainment velocity\". However the grains will continue to be transported even if the velocity falls below the entrainment velocity due to the reduced (or removed) friction between the grains and the river bed. Eventually the velocity will fall low enough for the grains to be deposited. This is shown by the Hjulström curve.\n\nA river is continually picking up and dropping solid particles of rock and soil from its bed throughout its length. Where the river flow is fast, more particles are picked up than dropped. Where the river flow is slow, more particles are dropped than picked up. Areas where more particles are dropped are called alluvial or flood plains, and the dropped particles are called alluvium.\n\nEven small streams make alluvial deposits, but it is in the flood plains and deltas of large rivers that large, geologically-significant alluvial deposits are found.\n\nThe amount of matter carried by a large river is enormous. The names of many rivers derive from the color that the transported matter gives the water. For example, the Huang He in China is literally translated \"Yellow River\", and the Mississippi River in the United States is also called \"the Big Muddy\". It has been estimated that the Mississippi River annually carries 406 million tons of sediment to the sea, the Yellow River 796 million tons, and the Po River in Italy 67 million tons.\n\n"}
{"id": "13413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13413", "title": "Foreign relations of Hong Kong", "text": "Foreign relations of Hong Kong\n\nUnder the Basic Law, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is exclusively in charge of its internal affairs and external relations, whilst the Government of the People's Republic of China is responsible for its foreign affairs and defence. As a separate customs territory, Hong Kong maintains and develops relations with foreign states and regions, and plays an active role in such international organisations as World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in its own right under the name of \"Hong Kong, China\". Hong Kong participates in 16 projects of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nHong Kong was under British rule before 1 July 1997. Prior to the implementation of the \"Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office Act 1996\" enacted by the British Parliament, Hong Kong represented its interests abroad through the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Offices (HKETOs) and via a special office in the British Embassies or High Commissions, but the latter ceased after the sovereignty of Hong Kong was transferred to the PRC and became a special administrative region (SAR) of the PRC in 1997. At present, the \"Hong Kong Economic and Trade Offices\" under the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in countries that are the major trading partners of Hong Kong, including Japan, Canada, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, the United Kingdom, Germany, the United States, the European Union as well as an ETO in Geneva to represent HKSAR Government in the WTO. These offices serve as the official representative of the Government of the Hong Kong SAR in these countries and international organisations. Its major functions include facilitating trade negotiations and handling trade related matters, inter-government relations with foreign governments; the promoting of investment in Hong Kong; and liaising with the media and business community. The Hong Kong Government has also set up the Hong Kong Tourism Board with offices in other countries and regions to promote tourism.\n\nThe Hong Kong SAR Government also has an office in Beijing, and three HKETOs at Guangzhou (Guangdong ETO), Shanghai and Chengdu. An HKETO will be set up at Wuhan in the future. The Central People's Government of the PRC also maintains a liaison office in Hong Kong. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a representative office in Hong Kong.\n\nHong Kong makes strenuous law enforcement efforts, but faces serious challenges in controlling transit of heroin and methamphetamine to regional and world markets; modern banking systems that provide a conduit for money laundering; rising indigenous use of synthetic drugs, especially among young people.\n\nHong Kong has its own immigration policy and administration. Permanent residents of Hong Kong with PRC nationality hold a different type of passport, called the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Passport, which is different from that for PRC citizens in Mainland China. Hong Kong permanent residents and mainland Chinese need a passport-like document (the \"Home Return Permit\" for Hong Kong permanent residents and the Two-way Permit for Mainland Chinese) to cross the Sino-Hong Kong border. Visitors from other countries and regions not participating in waiver programme are required to apply for visas directly to the Hong Kong Immigration Department.\n\nIn accordance with Article 151 of the Basic Law, Hong Kong concluded over 20 agreements with foreign states in 2010 on matters such as economic and financial co-operation, maritime technical co-operation, postal co-operation and co-operation on wine-related businesses. With the authorisation of the Central People's Government of the PRC, Hong Kong also concluded 12 bilateral agreements with foreign states on air services, investment promotion and protection, mutual legal assistance and visa abolition during the year.\n\nThe Chief Executive of Hong Kong and other senior officials often make a duty visit to foreign countries. These visits usually aim to advance Hong Kong's economic and trade relations with the foreign countries. During these visits, the Chief Executive will meet with political and business leaders. Usually, the head of state or head of government of the foreign countries will receive the Chief Executive. For example, former Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa made three visits to the United States during his term. In these three visits, Tung Chee-hwa met with the U.S. President in the Oval Office at the White House. Chief Executive Donald Tsang had visited Japan, South Korea, Russia, United Kingdom, United States, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Brazil, India, France and other countries during his term of government.\n\nFor example, Chief Executive Donald Tsang visited London and Edinburgh on 2011 as part of his European tour to renew ties with the UK and promote Hong Kong as a gateway to Asia. He met Prime Minister David Cameron and Foreign Secretary William Hague, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne. In Mid-2011, Donald Tsang visited Australia in June to strengthen ties between Hong Kong and Australia, promote trade opportunities, and encourage more Australian companies, particularly resources companies, to list in Hong Kong. During his visit, Mr Tsang held meetings with the Prime Minister, Julia Gillard, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Kevin Rudd, as well as the leader of the Opposition, Tony Abbott, and the Shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, Julie Bishop.\n\nMany foreign dignitaries visit Hong Kong each year. The number of such visits has grown since 1997 as many of them have included Hong Kong as a destination on their trips to China, while others have visited Hong Kong specifically to see \"one country, two systems\" in operation. The level of VIP visits is also boosted by major international conferences held in Hong Kong in recent years. In 2009–2012, there were 11 official visits to Hong Kong, including the visits of the Prime Minister of Canada, Secretary of State of the United States of America, President of the Russian Federation, President of the Republic of Indonesia, President of the Republic of Korea and other foreign dignitaries.\n\nWhen Hong Kong was under British rule, most Commonwealth member states, unlike other countries, were represented in Hong Kong by Commissions. However, following the 1997 handover, they were all renamed Consulates-General. Owing to Hong Kong's economic importance, and the large number of British passport holders, the British Consulate-General is the largest of its kind in the world and bigger than many British Embassies and High Commissions abroad.\n\nMost countries maintain Consulates-General or Consulates in Hong Kong. However, despite their name, many Consulates-General are not subordinate to their country's embassy to the PRC in Beijing. For example, the British Consulate-General is directly subordinate to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office of the UK rather than the British embassy in the Chinese capital. The Consul-General of the United States, likewise, holds ambassadorial rank, and reports to the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian Affairs in the US Department of State. By contrast, the US Consuls-General posted to Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai, and Shenyang report to the Deputy Chief of Mission of the US Embassy in Beijing who is directly subordinate to the US ambassador.\n\nFrom 2010, the relationship between the territory and Taiwan is managed through the Hong Kong-Taiwan Economic and Cultural Co-operation and Promotion Council (ECCPC) and Taiwan-Hong Kong Economic and Cultural Co-operation Council (ECCC). Meanwhile, the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office is a \"de facto\" mission of the Republic of China (Taiwan) in Hong Kong.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47953011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47953011", "title": "Geography of Nashik District", "text": "Geography of Nashik District\n\nNashik District, a district in Maharashtra, India, is noted for the mountains and hills occupying the north and north-east of its territory.These hill ranges are eastward spurs of the Western Ghats and form prominent landmarks in the district, some noted for the shrines they harbor while others for the trekking adventures which can be undertaken while ascending the peaks. Broadly categorized, the hills can be segregated into 3 noteworthy ranges:\n\n\nSelbari is a mountain range located at the northernmost extent of Nashik District forming a natural boundary between it and Dhule District.Most part of the range lies to the north of the Mausam River along an east to west axis turning around in a loop coming to lie south of the river to continue along in a west to east fashion. The southern part of the range is attimes identified as a unique range called Dholbari. Alternatively, the range is referred to as the Selbari-Dolbari range.\nThe highest peak in the range, Salher (1,567m) also happens to the 2nd highest peak in Maharashtra and is significant for being the highest fort in the Western Ghats.\n\nSatmala is a mountain range which runs across Nashik District, Mahrashtra. They are an integral part of the Sahyadris range within Nashik. These peaks are visible from a greater part of the district and form prominent landmarks. The highest of them is Dhodap (1,451 metres). Dhodap hill is third highest hill peak in Maharashtra after Kalsubai and Salher and 29th highest peak in Western Ghats. At the eastern side of this range lies the Chanvad range.\n\nIt lies south of the city of Nashik and is significant for the Trimbakeshwar Shiva Temple located near the range.The northern face of the range is the birthplace of India's 2nd longest river Godavari.The southern face of these hills are covered with dense forests and thus form a catchment area for the Upper Vaitarna Reservoir, the most important and reliable source of potable water supply to the metropolitan city of Mumbai.\nBrahmagiri (1,295meters) is the tallest peak in this range followed by Anjaneri peak(1,280meters).\n"}
{"id": "1870398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870398", "title": "Geotagging", "text": "Geotagging\n\nGeotagging or GeoTagging, is the process of adding geographical identification metadata to various media such as a geotagged photograph or video, websites, SMS messages, QR Codes or RSS feeds and is a form of geospatial metadata. This data usually consists of latitude and longitude coordinates, though they can also include altitude, bearing, distance, accuracy data, and place names, and perhaps a time stamp.\n\nGeotagging can help users find a wide variety of location-specific information from a device. For instance, someone can find images taken near a given location by entering latitude and longitude coordinates into a suitable image search engine. Geotagging-enabled information services can also potentially be used to find location-based news, websites, or other resources. Geotagging can tell users the location of the content of a given picture or other media or the point of view, and conversely on some media platforms show media relevant to a given location.\n\nThe related term geocoding refers to the process of taking non-coordinate based geographical identifiers, such as a street address, and finding associated geographic coordinates (or vice versa for reverse geocoding). Such techniques can be used together with geotagging to provide alternative search techniques.\n\nGeotagging has become a popular feature on several social media platforms, such as Facebook and Instagram.\n\nFacebook users can geotag photos that can be added to the page of the location they are tagging. Users may also use a feature that allows them to find nearby Facebook friends, by generating a list of people according to the location tracker in their mobile devices.\n\nInstagram uses a map feature that allows users to geotag photos. The map layout pin points specific photos that the user has taken on a world map.\n\nThe geographical location data used in geotagging will, in almost every case, be derived from the global positioning system, and based on a latitude/longitude-coordinate system that presents each location on the earth from 180° west through 180° east along the Equator and 90° north through 90° south along the prime meridian.\n\nThere are two main options for geotagging photos; capturing GPS information at the time the photo is taken or \"attaching\" the photograph to a map after the picture is taken.\n\nIn order to capture GPS data at the time the photograph is captured, the user must have a camera with built in GPS or a standalone GPS along with a digital camera. Because of the requirement for wireless service providers in United States to supply more precise location information for 911 calls by September 11, 2012, more and more cell phones have built-in GPS chips. Most smart phones already use a GPS chip along with built-in cameras to allow users to automatically geotag photos. Others may have the GPS chip and camera but do not have internal software needed to embed the GPS information within the picture. A few digital cameras also have built-on or built-in GPS that allow for automatic geotagging.\nDevices use GPS, A-GPS or both. A-GPS can be faster getting an initial fix if within range of a cell phone tower, and may work better inside buildings. Traditional GPS does not need cell phone towers and uses standard GPS signals outside of urban areas. Traditional GPS tends to use more battery power. Almost any digital camera can be coupled with a stand-alone GPS and post processed with photo mapping software, to write the location information to the image's exif header.\n\nGPS coordinates may be represented in text in a number of ways, with more or fewer decimals:\n\nWith photos stored in JPEG, TIFF and many other file formats, the geotag information, storing camera location and sometimes heading, is typically embedded in the metadata, stored in Exchangeable image file format (Exif) or Extensible Metadata Platform (XMP) format. These data are not visible in the picture itself but are read and written by special programs and most digital cameras and modern scanners. Latitude and longitude are stored in units of degrees with decimals. This geotag information can be read by many programs, such as the cross-platform open source ExifTool. An example readout for a photo might look like:\n\nor the same coordinates could also be presented as decimal degrees:\n\nWhen stored in Exif, the coordinates are represented as a series of rational numbers in the GPS sub-IFD. Here is a hexadecimal dump of the relevant section of the Exif metadata (with big-endian byte order):\n\nIn the field of remote sensing the geotagging goal is to store coordinates of every pixel in the image. One approach is used with the orthophotos where we store coordinates of four corners and all the other pixels can be georeferenced by interpolation. The four corners are stored using GeoTIFF or World file standards. Hyperspectral images take a different approach defining a separate file of the same spatial dimensions as the image where latitude and longitude of each pixel are stored as two 2D layers in so called \"Input geometry data\" (IGM) files, also known as GEO files.\n\nAudio/video files can be geotagged via: metadata, audio encoding, overlay, or with companion files. Metadata records the geospatial data in the encoded video file to be decoded for later analysis. One of the standards used with unmanned aerial vehicle is which allows geocoding of corner points and horizon lines in individual video frames. Audio encoding involves a process of converting gps data into audio data such as modem squawk. Overlay involves overlaying GPS data as text on the recorded video. Companion files are separate data files which correspond to respective audio/video files. Companion files are typically found in the .KML and .GPX data formats. For audio and video files which use the vorbiscomment metadata format (including Opus, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC, Speex, and Ogg Theora), there is a proposed GEO LOCATION field which can be used. Like all vorbiscomments, it is plain text, and it takes the form:\n\ncodice_25\n\nfor example:\n\ncodice_26\n\nThe GeoSMS standard works by embedding one or more 'geo' URIs in the body of an SMS, for example:\n\nRFC 1876 defines a means for expressing location information in the Domain Name System. LOC resources records can specify the latitude, longitude, altitude, precision of the location, and the physical size of on entity attached to an IP address. However, in practice not all IP addresses have such a record, so it is more common to use geolocation services to find the physical location of an IP address.\n\nThe GeoURL method requires the ICBM tag (plus optional Dublin Core metadata), which is used to geotag standard web pages in HTML format:\nThe similar Geo Tag format allows the addition of placename and region tags:\nThe RDF method is defined by W3 Group and presents the information in RDF tags:\n<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf=\"http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#\"\n</rdf:RDF>\nThe Geo microformat allows coordinates within HyperText Markup Language pages to be marked up in such a way that they can be \"discovered\" by software tools. Example:\nA proposal has been developed to extend Geo to cover other bodies, such as Mars and the Moon.\n\nAn example is the Flickr photo-sharing Web site, which provides geographic data for any geotagged photo in all of the above-mentioned formats.\n\nNo industry standards exist, however there are a variety of techniques for adding geographical identification metadata to an information resource. One convention, established by the website Geobloggers and used by more and more sites, e.g. photo sharing sites Panoramio and Flickr, and the social bookmarking site del.icio.us, enables content to be found via a location search. Such sites allow users to add metadata to an information resource via a set of so-called \"machine tags\" (see folksonomy).\n\nThis describes the geographic coordinates of a particular location in terms of latitude (geo:lat) and longitude (geo:lon). These are expressed in decimal degrees in the WGS84 datum, which has become something of a default geodetic datum with the advent of GPS.\n\nUsing three tags works within the constraint of having tags that can only be single 'words'. Identifying geotagged information resources on sites like Flickr and del.icio.us is done by searching for the 'geotagged' tag, since the tags beginning 'geo:lat=' and 'geo:lon=' are necessarily very variable.\n\nAnother option is to tag with a Geohash:\n\nA further convention proposed by FlickrFly adds tags to specify the suggested viewing angle and range when the geotagged location is viewed in Google Earth:\n\nThese three tags would indicate that the camera is pointed heading 225° (south west), has a 45° tilt and is 560 metres from the subject.\n\nWhere the above methods are in use, their coordinates may differ from those specified by the photo's internal Exif data, for example because of a correction or a difference between the camera's location and the subject's.\n\nIn order to integrate geotags in social media and enhance text readability or oral use, the concept of 'meetag' or tag-to-meet has been proposed. Differing from hashtag construction, meetag includes the geolocation information after an underscore. A meetag is therefore a word or an unspaced phrase prefixed with an underscore (\"_\"). Words in messages on microblogging and social networking services may be tagged by putting \"_\" before them, either as they appear in a sentence, (e.g. \"There is a concert going _montreuxjazzfestival\", \"the world wide web was invented _cern _geneve\", ...) or appended to it.\n\nGeoblogging attaches specific geographic location information to blog entries via \"geotags\". Searching a list of blogs and pictures tagged using geotag technology allows users to select areas of specific interest to them on interactive maps.\n\nThe progression of GPS technology, along with the development of various online applications, has fueled the popularity of such tagged blogging, and the combination of GPS Phones and GSM localization, has led to the moblogging, where blog posts are tagged with exact position of the user. Real-time geotagging relays automatically geotagged media such as photos or video to be published and shared immediately.\n\nFor better integration and readability of geotags into blog texts, the meetag syntax has been proposed, which transforms any word, sentence, or precise geolocalization coordinates prefixed with an underscore into a 'meetag'. It not only lets one express a precise location but also takes in account dynamically changing geolocations.\n\nOne of the first attempts to initiate the geotagging aspect of searching and locating articles seems to be the now-inoperative site Wikinear.com, launched in 2008, which showed the user Wikipedia pages that are geographically closest to one's current location.\n\nThe 2009 app Cyclopedia works relatively well showing geotagged Wikipedia articles located within several miles of ones location, integrated with a street-view mode, and 360-degree mode.\n\nThe app Respotter Wiki, launched in 2009, claims to feature Wikipedia searching via a map, also allowing users to interact with people around them, via messaging and reviews, etc. The app, in its current function, however, seems to give only geotagged photo results.\n\nAs of 2017, the provides a simple map search tool which can display tagged articles near to a particular location, as well as a variety of more sophisticated tools integrated with external mapping services.\n\nFollowing a scientific study and several demonstrative websites, a discussion on the privacy implications of geotagging has raised public attention. In particular, the automatic embedding of geotags in pictures taken with smartphones is often ignored by cell-phone users. As a result, people are often not aware that the photos they publish on the Internet have been geotagged. Many celebrities reportedly gave away their home location without knowing it. According to the study, a significant number of for-sale advertisements on Craigslist, that were otherwise anonymized, contained geotags, thereby revealing the location of high-valued goods—sometimes in combination with clear hints to the absence of the offerer at certain times. Publishing photos and other media tagged with exact geolocation on the Internet allows random people to track an individual's location and correlate it with other information. Therefore, criminals could find out when homes are empty because their inhabitants posted geotagged and timestamped information both about their home address and their vacation residence. These dangers can be avoided by removing geotags with a metadata removal tool for photos before publishing them on the Internet.\n\nIn 2007, four United States Army Apache helicopters were destroyed on the ground by Iraqi insurgent mortar fire; the insurgents had made use of embedded coordinates in web-published photographs (geotagging) taken of the helicopters by soldiers.\n\nAnother newly realised danger of geotagging is the location information provided to criminal gangs and poachers on the whereabouts of often endangered animals. This can effectively make tourists scouts for these poachers, so geotagging should be turned off when photographing these animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "560969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560969", "title": "Governorate (Russia)", "text": "Governorate (Russia)\n\nA governorate, or a guberniya (; also romanized ), was a major and principal administrative subdivision of the Russian Empire and the early Russian SFSR and Ukrainian SSR. The term is usually translated as \"government\", \"governorate\", or \"province\". A governorate was ruled by a governor (, \"gubernator\"), a word borrowed from Latin , in turn from Greek . Sometimes the term \"guberniya\" was informally used to refer to the office of a governor.\n\nSelected governorates were united under an assigned governor general such as Grand Duchy of Finland, Tsardom of Poland, Russian Turkestan and others. There also were military governors such as Kronshtadt, Vladivostok, and others. Aside of governorates, other types of divisions were oblasts (region) and okrugs (district).\n\nThis subdivision type was created by the edict (ukase) of Peter the Great on December 18, 1708 \"On the establishment of the gubernias and cities assigned to them\", which divided Russia into eight guberniyas.\n\nIn 1719, guberniyas were further subdivided into provinces (, ). Later the number of guberniyas was increased to 23.\nBy the reform of 1775, subdivision into guberniyas and further into (), was based on population size, and the term \"guberniya\" was replaced by the synonym of Russian origin: (), sometimes translated as \"viceroyalty\". The term \"guberniya\", however, still remained in use. These viceroyalties were governed by () (literal translation: \"deputy\") or \"governors general\" (, ). Correspondingly, the term \"governorate general\" (, ) was in use to refer to the actual territory being governed. The office of governor general had more administrative power and was in a higher position than the previous office of governor. Sometimes a governor general ruled several guberniyas.\n\nBy the ukase of the Russian Senate of December 31, 1796, the office of governorate general was demoted to the previous level of governorate, and Russia was again divided into guberniyas, which were subdivided into , further subdivided into (); nevertheless several governorates general made from several guberniyas existed until the Russian Revolution of 1917.\n\nFor the guberniya (, , , ) as subdivisions of the Kingdom of Poland (\"Russian Poland\") and the Grand Duchy of Finland; see Administrative division of Congress Poland and Governorates of the Grand Duchy of Finland.\n\nFor the guberniya (, ) as subdivisions of the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Ukrainian SSR (\"Soviet Ukraine\"); see Administrative divisions of Ukraine (1918–25).\n\nAfter the February Revolution, the Russian Provisional Government renamed governors into \"guberniya commissars\". The October Revolution left the subdivision in place, but the governing apparatus was replaced by \"guberniya soviets\" ().\n\nActual subdivisions of the Soviet Union into particular territorial units was subject to numerous changes, especially during the 1918–1929 period. Because of the Soviet Union's electrification program under the GOELRO plan, Ivan Alexandrov directed the Regionalisation Commission of Gosplan to divide the Soviet union into thirteen European and eight Asiatic oblasts, using rational economic planning rather than \"the vestiges of lost sovereign rights\". Eventually, in 1929, the subdivision was replaced by the notions of oblast, okrug, and \"raion\".\n\nIn post-Soviet republics such as Russia and Ukraine, the term \"Guberniya\" is obsolete, yet the word \"gubernator\" was reinstated and is used when referring to a governor of an oblast or a krai.\n\nThere is another archaic meaning of the word as the word denoted a type of estate in former Lithuania of the Russian Empire till 1917.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13598464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13598464", "title": "Hypermobility (travel)", "text": "Hypermobility (travel)\n\nHypermobile travelers are \"highly mobile individuals\" who take \"frequent trips, often over great distances.\" They \"account for a large share of the overall kilometres travelled, especially by air.\" These people contribute significantly to the overall amount of airmiles flown within a given society. Although concerns over hypermobility apply to several modes of transport, the environmental impact of aviation and especially its greenhouse gas emissions have brought particular focus on flying. Among the reasons for this focus is that these emissions, because they are made at high altitude, have a climate impact that is commonly estimated to be 2.7 higher than the same emissions if made at ground-level.\n\nAlthough the amount of time people have spent in motion has remained constant since 1950, the shift from feet and bicycles to cars and planes has increased the speed of travel fivefold. This results in the twin effects of wider and shallower regions of social activity around each person (further exacerbated by electronic communication which can be seen as a form of virtual mobility), and a degradation of the social and physical environment brought about by the high speed traffic (as theorised by urban designer Donald Appleyard).\n\nThe changes are brought about locally due to the use of cars and motorways, and internationally by aeroplanes. Some of the social threats of hypermobility include:\n\nThe addictive properties of hypermobile travel have been noted by researchers.\n\nWidespread Internet use is seen as a contributory factor towards hypermobility due to the increased ease which it enables travel to be desired and organized. To the extent that the Internet perversely stimulates travel, it represents a lost opportunity to reduce overall emissions because online communication is a straightforward substitute for physical travel.\n\nThe term hypermobility arose around 1980 concerning the flow of capital, and since the early 1990s has also referred to excessive travel. [\"See:\" Hepworth and Ducatel (1992); Whitelegg (1993); Lowe (1994); van der Stoep (1995); Shields (1996); Cox (1997); Adams (1999); Khisty and Zeitler (2001); Gössling et al. (2009); Mander & Randles (2009); and (Higham 2014).] The term is widely credited as having been coined by Adams (1999), but apart from the title of the work it says nothing explicit about it except that \"[t]he term hypermobility is used in this essay to suggest that it may be possible to have too much of a good thing.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "226016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226016", "title": "ISO 3166-2:MD", "text": "ISO 3166-2:MD\n\nISO 3166-2:MD is the entry for Moldova in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Moldova, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 1 autonomous territorial unit, 3 cities, 32 districts, and 1 territorial unit. The three cities have special status equal to the districts.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Moldova. The second part is two letters.\n\nDue to limited international recognition, Transnistria is considered part of Moldova and does not have its own ISO 3166-1 code.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nSubdivision names are sorted in Moldovan alphabetical order: a, â, ă, b-i, î, j-s, ș, t, ț, u-z.\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998. ISO stopped issuing newsletters in 2013.\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3258646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3258646", "title": "Igboland", "text": "Igboland\n\nIgboland (Standard ), also known as Southeastern Nigeria, is the homeland of the Igbo people.\nIt is a non-governmental cultural and common linguistic region in southern Nigeria. Geographically, it is divided by the lower Niger River into two unequal sections – an eastern (which is the larger of the two) and a western section. It is characterised by the diverse Igbo culture and the equally diverse Igbo language.<ref name=\"https://books.google.com\"></ref>\nPolitically, Igboland is divided into several southern Nigerian states. Culturally, it is divided into several subgroupings, including the Anioma, Ngwa, Abiriba, Edda Egbebu, Ezaa, Ibeku, Ohuhu, Omuma and the Ekpeye. William Balfour Baikie remarked that \"in Igbo[land] each person hails, as a sailor would say, from the particular district where he was born, but when away from home all are Igbos. And yet considerable differences exist between different parts of this extensive country, and the dialects spoken also vary greatly.\"\n\nIgboland is surrounded on all sides by a host of large rivers, and other southern and central Nigeria indigenous tribes namely Bini, Urhobo-Isoko, Ijaw, Ogoni, Igala, Tiv, Yako, Idoma and Ibibio. In the words of William B. Baikie, \"Igbo homeland, extends east and west, from the Old Kalabar river to the banks of the Kwora, Niger River, and possesses also some territory at Aboh, an Igbo clan, to the west-ward of the latter stream. On the north it borders on Igara, Igala and A'kpoto, and it is separated from the sea only by petty tribes, all of which trace their origin to this great race\".\n\nIt is primarily situated in the Lowland forest region of Nigeria, with parts in the Niger-Delta, where the Niger river fans out into the Atlantic Ocean in a vast network of creeks and mangrove swamps on the Bight of Bonny.\n\nThe earliest found settlements in Igboland date back to 4500 BC in the central area, from where the majority of the Igbo-speaking population is believed to have migrated. The northern Igbo Kingdom of Nri, which rose around the 10th century AD, is credited with the foundation of much of Igboland's culture, customs, and religious practices. It is the oldest existing monarchy in present-day Nigeria. In southern Igboland several groups developed, of which the most notable was the Aro Confederacy. Igboland was part of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate of the British Empire and was amalgamated into modern-day Nigeria in 1914; the nation gained independence in 1960. Shortly afterwards Igboland was involved in its biggest war during Biafra's movement for secession, which eventually ended in 1970 when this area rejoined Nigeria.\n\nIgboland's culture has been shaped primarily by its rainforest climate, its ancient trade, migration, and social history within its various clans and peoples, and with its ancient trading neighbours, allies and lately with Europeans.\nMr W. B. Baikie said, \"I seized the moment, and, by our interpreter, told Tshukuma, that we had come to make his acquaintance and his friendship, and to ascertain if the people were willing to trade with us\", whilst signing a trade agreement with Igbo chief, Mr Tshukuma (Chukwuma) Obi from Aboh clan, who were one of the leading Igbo clans, engaged in early active trading with Europe. Similarly, \"after our salutations, I spoke of friendship, of trade, and of education, and particularly enlarged upon the evils of war, and the benefits of peace, all of which was well received\", remarked William B. Balkie when signing a trade agreement with Igbo chief, Ezebogo in Asaba on August 30, 1885.\n\nDue to the native common linguistic standard and interrelated cultures in Igboland, pre-dating the arrival of Europeans, the lower Niger River, which divides Igboland into unequal eastern and western parts, has from ancient times continued to provide easy means of communication, trading and unity amongst Igbos on both sides of the Niger River, as well as promoted ancient trade and migration of people into Igboland, and between Igboland and rest of the world. Some of the notable ancient trade and export routes in Igboland included the famous lower Niger and Njaba-Oguta lake-Orashi navigational routes via Asaba-Onitsha-Aboh, and Awo-omamma-Oguta-Ogba–Egbema–Ndoni-Aboh ferry services respectively.\n\nThere is evidence of Late Stone Age (late Paleolithic) human presence from at least 10,000 years ago.\nEarly settlement of Igboland dates back to 6000 BC based on early pottery found in the Okigwe, Oka Igwe, and known today as Awka.\nMuch of the pottery excavated by a team led by Thurstan Shaw with the University of Nigeria at Nsukka in 1978 uncovered a rock quarry which was a mine for tool and pottery making for a 'stone civilisation' nearby at Ibagwa. \nAnthropologists at the University of Benin discovered fossils and use of monoliths dating back to 4500 BC at Ugwelle-Uturu in the Okigwe area.\n\nFurther evidence of ancient settlements were uncovered at a hypothesised Nsukka metal cultural area from 3000 BC and later settlements attributed to Ngwa culture at AD 8-18.\nIt is unclear what cultural links there are between these pre-historic artefacts and today. Later human settlement in the region may have links with other discoveries made in the wider area particularly with the culture]] associated with the terracotta discoveries at Nok spanning a wide area about north-central Nigeria.\n\nSome local villagers retain the Original name, like Umuzuoka, The Blacksmiths Ezioka, Okigwe, Imoka, etc.\n\nThe Nsukka-Okigwe axis forms as a basis for a proposed Proto-Igbo cultural heartland antecedent to contemporary Igbo culture. \nMuch of the Igbo population is believed to have expadnded from a smaller area within in this region, diverging into several independent Igbo-speaking tribes, village-groups, kingdoms and states. \nThe movements were generally broken into two trends in migration: a more northerly spread group towards the banks of the Niger and the upper quadrant of the Cross River; the other, following a southerly trail had mostly risen from the Isu populations based nearer the axis from which the majority of southern Igbo communities were populated. Mbaise are notably the best examples of an Igbo group claiming autochthony and rejecting many migratory histories about their origins, many of these groups either way are evidently culturally northern or southern Igbo based on the proximity of their traditions to those of their neighbours and, many times, familial and political ties.\n\n \nThe first Igbo Ukwu metal and precious artefacts finds were made accidentally in 1939, when one Isiah Anozie was digging a cistern.\nThis led to the discovery of a larger network of linked metal works from the 9th century. The works were based in Igbo Ukwu and further finds were found by archaeology teams led by Thurstan Shaw in 1959-60 and in 1964 in the compound of Jonah Anozie.\n\nInitially, throughout the 1960s and 1970s it was thought that the Igbo Ukwu bronze and copper items were of an external origin or were influenced by outside technology due to their technical sophistication. The opposite was revealed to be true since local copper deposits had been exploited by the 9th century and anthropological evidence, such as the Ichi-like scarifications on the human figures, show local origin. The works have been attributed to an isolated bronze industry which had developed without outside influence over time to reach such sophistication.\n\nIgbo trade routes of the early second millennium reached the cities of Mecca, Medina and Jeddah through a network of trade routes journeyed by middlemen. There was evidence of beads that originated in India in the 9th century Igbo Ukwu burial sites: Thousands of glass beads were uncovered from the ruined remains of a nobleman's garments. The burial site was associated with the Nri Kingdom which began around the same century according to indigenous history.\n\nThe northern Igbo Kingdom of Nri, rising around the 10th century based on Umunri traditions, is credited with the foundation of much of Igboland's culture, customs, and religious practices. It is the oldest existing monarchy in present-day Nigeria. It was around the mid-10th century that the divine figure Eri is said to have migrated, according to Umunri lore, to the Anambra () river basin — specifically at its meeting with Ezu river known as Ezu na Omambara in present-day Aguleri. The exact origins of Eri are unknown and much of Nri traditions present him as a divine leader and civiliser sent from heaven to begin civilisation. In contrast, Eri's origins generally suggest a north easterly origin which has sparked up debate pertaining to a possible Igala origin for Eri.\n\nDue to historic trade and migration of old, other people also entered the Igboland in about the fourteenth or fifteenth centuries and mixed with the natives. Towards the western end of Igboland, across the Niger River, rose a man known as Eze Chima who fled Benin with his accomplices after a dispute with the Oba of Benin who consequently exiled him in the 1560s. As they left Benin City heading eastwards, Eze Chima and his followers settled in a number of lands and established monarchies with the natives in those areas. Those grew into major village groups and towns after the 16th century. Collectively, these places are known as Umuezechima which translates as 'the children or descendants of king Chima'.\n\nIgboland was historically known as the \"Ibo(e)\", \"Ebo(e)\", and \"Heebo Country\" by early European explorers. Igboland was conquered by the British Empire after several decades of resistance on all fronts; some of the most famous of the resistance include the Ekumeku Movement, the Anglo-Aro War, and the Aba Women's Riots which was contributed to by women of different ethnic backgrounds in eastern Nigeria.\n\nThe extreme northern parts of Igboland in the eighteenth were subject to much raiding by elements of the Igala people of Idah under Onoja Oboni, a descendant of one of the Idah royal families. The conflicts drew down further into areas in central northern Igboland, particularly Nsugbe near where early European settlers with Joseph Hawkins noted events from parts of the conflicts between the 'Ebo Country' and 'Galla' in \"A History of a Voyage to the Coast of Africa\" published in 1797. Umueri traditions state that Onoja Oboni, however, is of royal Eri stock and founded Idah as he trailed northwards. The Igala do not claim origins from Onoja Oboni or the Igbo.\n\nA number of polities rose either directly or indirectly as a result of Nri; the most powerful kingdom of these was the Aro Confederacy which rose in the Cross River region in the 17th century and declined after British colonisation in the early 20th century. The Aro state centred on Arochukwu followed Nri's steady decline, basing much of its economic activities on the rising trade in slaves to Europeans by coastal African middlemen.\n\nThe present site of Arochukwu was originally settled by the Ibibio people under the Obong Okon Ita kingdom before the conquest of what became Obinkita in the 17th century by two main Igbo groups: the Eze Agwu clan and the Oke Nnachi assisted by the Ibom Isi (or Akpa) mercenaries under the leadership of the Nnubi dynasty. Led by Agwu Inobia, a descendant of Nna Uru from Abiriba, the Eze Agwu clan was centered at their capital Amanagwu and were resisted by Obong Okon Ita which led to the start of the Aro-Ibibio Wars.\n\nThe war initially became a stalemate. Both sides arranged a marriage between the king of Obong Okon Ita and a woman from Amanagwu. The marriage eventually failed to bring peace but played a decisive role in the war. Oke Nnachi was led by Nnachi Ipia who was a \"dibia\" or priest among the Edda people and was called by Agwu Inobia to help in the war against the Ibibio. These groups were followed by a third non-Igbo Ekoi-cultured group, Akpa or Ibom Oburutu who were led by Akuma Nnaubi, the first Eze Aro, the title of the king of the Aro.\n\nIn southern Igboland several groups developed mostly independent of Nri influence. Most of these groups followed a migration out of Isu communities in present-day Imo State, although some communities, such as the Mbaise cluster of village groups, claim to be autochthonous.\n\nFollowing the British parliament's abolition of the slave trade in 1830, the British royal navy had opened up trade with coastal towns Bonny and Opobo and further inland on the Niger with Asaba in the 1870s. The palm oil industry, the biggest export, grew large and important to the British who traded here. British arrival and trade led to increased encounters between the Igbo and other polities and ethnic groups around the Niger River and led to a deepening sense of a distinct Igbo ethnic identity. Missionaries had started arriving in the 1850s. The Igbo, at first wary of the religion, started to embrace Christianity and Western education as traditional society broke down. Christianity had played a great part in the introduction of European ideology into Igbo society and culture often time through erasure of cultural practice; adherents to the denominations were often barred in partaking in ancient rites and traditions, and joining fraternities and secret societies were forbidden as the church grew stronger.\n\nDue to the incompatibility of the Igbo decentralized style of government and the centralized system required for British indirect rule, British colonial rule was marked with open conflicts and much tension. Under British colonial rule, the diversity within each of Nigeria's major ethnic groups slowly decreased and distinctions between the Igbo and other large ethnic groups, such as the Hausa and the Yoruba, became sharper. British rule brought about changes in culture such as the introduction of warrant chiefs as Eze (traditional rulers) where there were no such monarchies.\n\nFollowing the independence of Nigeria from the United Kingdom in 1960, most of Igboland was included in its Eastern Region.\n\nFollowing a coup in 1966 which saw mostly Igbo soldiers assassinating politicians from the western and northern regions of Nigeria, Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi seized control of Lagos, the capital, and came into power as military head of state of Nigeria. In revolt and retaliation against the government General Aguiyi-Ironsi was ambushed and assassinated by Northern members of the military on 29 July 1966 in a revolt against that had strong ethnic overtones. Ironsi's assassination stood out more because of the method of his killers; Ironsi had his legs tied to the back of a Land Rover and was driven around town while still attached. The Eastern Region formed the core of the secessionist Republic of Biafra. A regional council of the peoples of Eastern Nigeria decided the region should secede as the Republic of Biafra on May 30, 1967.\n\nNigerian General Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu on this day made a declaration of independence of Biafra from Nigeria and became the head of state of the new republic. The Nigerian Civil War (or the \"Nigerian-Biafran War\") lasted from 6 July 1967 until 15 January 1970, after which Biafra once again became part of Nigeria. The Republic of Biafra was defeated after three years of war by the federal government of Nigeria from 1967 to 1970 with military support from the United Kingdom (strategy and ammunition), Soviet Union (ammunition), the United Arab Republic (air force), as well as with support from other states around the world. The effects of Nigerian war strategies such as starvation on Biafran civilians (most of whom were ethnic Igbo) remains a controversial topic. The movement for the sovereignty of Biafra has continued with a minority, most making up the MASSOB organisation.\n\nGeography and biodiversity\n\nHistorically, Igboland has taken up a large part of southeastern Nigeria, mostly on the eastern side of the Niger River. The Igbos claim their territory extends westward across the Niger to the regions of Aniocha, Ndokwa, Ukwuani, and Ika in present-day Delta State. Its eastern side is terminated by the Cross River, although micro-communities exist over on the other side of the river; its northernmost point enters the Savannah climate around Nsukka.\nIn Nigeria today, Igboland is roughly made up of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo, Northern Delta and Rivers states, and small parts of Akwa Ibom. More than 30 million people inhabit Igboland and with a population density ranging from it could be the most densely populated area in Africa after the Nile Valley. Altogether Igboland has an area of some .\n\n"}
{"id": "300292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300292", "title": "Ilocos", "text": "Ilocos\n\nIlocos collectively refers to two provinces in the Philippines: Ilocos Norte and Ilocos Sur which used to be a single province. Inhabitants are called \"Ilocanos\" and they speak the language Iloko, also called \"Ilocano\".\n\nThe Ilocos Region, containing four provinces, is named after Ilocos. 56 percent of the inhabitants of the region are Pangasinan people, who belong to a different ethnolinguistic group from the Ilocanos. Ilocos may also refer to the former province before Ilocos Norte and Ilocos Sur were divided.\n\nIn the 330 pages “The Ilocos Heritage” (the 27th book written by Visitacion de la Torre), the boy legacy and the life of the Ilocano – are described as - \"the browbeaten, industrious, cheerful, simple soul who has shown a remarkable strain of bravery and a bit of wanderlust.\" The Ilocano history reveals his struggles and victories – in battles for colonial independence from Spain and America, to Philippine leadership. The new Ilocano searched for greener pastures towards new lands local and foreign - Palawan, Mindanao, Hawaii, the United States and Greece. The Ilocano material culture and spirituality can be seen in the past - images of Spanish santo (saints), antique but intricate wooden furniture and quality local fiber. The native Ilocano is a weaver, wood carver and pottery expert. The Ilocano cuisine – ranges from the exotic \"abu-os\" (ant eggs) to vegetable broth \"dinengdeng,\" the sticky \"tinubong\" to the \"poqui-poqui\" (eggplant salad). Ilocandia is filled with colonial churches, the legacy of Spanish Catholicism.\n"}
{"id": "59169937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59169937", "title": "Lankaran Economic Region", "text": "Lankaran Economic Region\n\nLankaran economic region – one of the Azerbaijani economic regions \n\nLankaran-Astara economic region includes 6 administrative districts - Astara, Jalilabad, Lerik, Lankaran, Masally and Yardimli. The administrative structure in the economic region consists of local executive authorities and municipalities. The economic region has 8 cities, 6 districts 13 settlements and 642 villages. 182 municipalities function in the region. Each administrative district was established in the Soviet period by the Decree of the Supreme Soviet of Azerbaijan SSR dated August 8, 1930. The same administrative divisions remained after Azerbaijan gained independence. Each administrative district is headed by a chief executive appointed by the president of Azerbaijan. \n\nHeads of district executive powers are responsible for the establishment of representative offices of the executive power in the respective villages and settlements situated in their respective territories and appoint their representatives. Municipalities are divided into administrative-territorial units in districts and towns divided by settlements.\n\nLankaran economic region includes the rayons of Astara, Jalilabad, Lankaran, Masally, Lerik, and Yardimly. The center of the region is the city of Lankaran. The economic region is located in south-east of Azerbaijan, on the roads to Iran and Turkey bordering Aran economic region of Azerbaijan in the north, Caspian Sea in the east, Iran in the west and south. The region covers the area of 6,14 thousand square kilometers, which is 7,1% of the territory of the country. 26% of the territory of the economic region is covered with forests. The region is characterized by damp subtropical climate and differs from other economic regions of Azerbaijan due to its natural conditions. \n\nThe area is divided into two parts consisting of the Lankaran lowland and the Talysh mountains. The mountainous part of the economic region is composed of Talish, Peshtasar and Burovar ranges. \n\nThe Talish Mountains in the western part and the proximity of the Lankaran lowland to the Caspian Sea provide a diverse climate in the Lankaran economic region. Summer is hot and mostly dry. The average July temperature is 24-26 °C and the absolute maximum temperature is 33-35 °C. Winter is very mild. The average January temperature is -2-(-4) °C, the absolute minimum temperature is -5-(-11) ° C. The number of snowy days is between 10 and 30 days. The symptoms of subtropical climate gradually disappear in the areas where the rainfalls exceed 500 mm and the precipitation rises up to 400-600 mm, dry and hot summer dominates. In the mountainous areas, summer is relatively cool; the average July temperature is 19-20 ° C. \n\nLankaran economic region has a dense river network. The rivers of the district are fed mainly from rainwater.  Several water reservoirs have been built on the rivers in order to supply the district with drinking and irrigation water. The largest water reservoir of the economic region is Khanbulanchay which was built in 1977.\n\nLankaran economic region has different soil cover. In the Lankaran lowland, glacial-yellow soil is dominant. But the plains-foothill zone of the region is covered with forest soil.  In the Talysh mountains, the brown mountain-forest and mountain meadow lands are spread. The brown mountain-forest lands are formed in dry and warm climate (total precipitation is 400 mm, average annual temperature is 12 ° C). These lands are spread in the mid-mountainous and foothill zone of the economic region at altitudes of 600-1200 m.\n\nYellow soils in Azerbaijan are spread only in the foothills of the economic region and occupy 157.1 thousand hectares or 1,8 % of all the region`s lands. These lands are formed in the Mediterranean type of humid subtropical climate with an average annual temperature of 14 ° C and an annual rainfall of 1300-1900 mm (south). Most of the rainfall falls in the autumn and winter seasons. Yellow soils cover the Hirkan-type forests of chestnut oak trees. \n\nAs of January 1, 2011, the population of Lankaran economic region was 843200. 24.9% of the population of the region settled in cities and 75.1% live in the settlements and villages. \n\nLankaran economic region is not rich in minerals. In the district, there are natural resources such as sand, clay, grass, gypsum, marble, as well as mineral water and forests. The economic region is characterized by one of the regions with thick forest cover. 25,3 % of the forest area is in the territory of Astara, 24, 4% in Lerik and 20 % in the Lankaran administrative region. Forests of the region are dominated Parrotia persica, chestnut oak, silk acacia (Albizia julibrissin), etc. \n\nMineral springs of the economic region have healing features. There are up to 20 mineral springs in the Astara region. The water temperature of these springs is 35 -50 C. The composition of the springs such as Lankaran, Ashaghi Lankaran, Havzava, Nafthoni, Meshesu, Ibadisu and others in Lankaran administrative district is rich in sulfur and minerals that are important in healing. In the territory of Masalli, Lerik, Yardimli administrative districts there are many mineral springs which are used in treatment.\n\nThe Gizilaghaj Reserve where different birds winter, the Hirkan National Park and Zuvand Reserve, which are rich in relic plants are located in the territory of Lankaran economic region. The Ghizilaghaj State Reserve was established in 1929 and its area is 88,000 hectares. Different birds such as swans, geese, ducks, spoonbill, golden goose, heron are protected in the this reserve. The Hirkan National Park was established in 1936 and its area is 2.9 thousand hectares. There are mostly relic plants in the reserve - ironwood, chestnut oak, Caspian lotus, azat tree, etc. The Zuvand Reserve is located in the territory of the Yardimli administrative district. The area of this reserve is 15 thousand hectares, where the mountain goat is protected.\n\nAnalysis of the main socio-economic indicators of the labor market in the Lankaran economic region shows that the number of employees in the region in the Lankaran economic region was 67.5 thousand people. This is 6.1% more than in 2003.\n\nThe industry has a weaker position compared to agriculture in the Lankaran economic region. It is based on especially processing of local agricultural products. Food industry produces the 90% of industrial products of the region. There are some enterprises involved in the production of meat, milk, cheese, and bread. There are enterprises including construction material, furniture production, vehicle repair, instrument-making, maintenance and repair of agricultural machinery. Poultry keeping industry is developed in Lankaran.\n\n89.7% of the industrial output of the Lankaran economic region is produced in the Masalli, Lankaran and Astara regions.\n\nThe region has potential (humid subtropical climate, water for irrigation, fertile soil and labor force) to improve agriculture. Tea-growing is the main agricultural field in the region. Beside it, grain-growing, vegetable-growing, and vine-growing are the main sectors of the agriculture. Lankaran economic region produces 99% of tea produced in the country. 27% of vegetable, 15% of grain, 24% of potato, 13% grape, 10% of the total amount of fruits in Azerbaijan is produced Lankaran. Plain areas of Lankaran, Masalli, and Astara are specialized in growing of tea, and vegetable, as well as melon plantation. Jalilabad region is famous for its vine-growing. Grain-growing, tea-growing and cattle-breeding are the main agricultural fields in Yardimly and Lerik. Especially growing citrus fruits is very improved in the region. \n\nIn the economic region, the volume of investments into fixed capital in 2012 was 222,8 million manats. Between 2003 and 2010, the volume of the capital investments increased by 10,1 times compared to the previous years. Most of the investments in fixed capital (84.8%) were spent on construction works. \n\nCargo and passenger transportation is carried out by Baku-Astara railway and Baku-Astara motorway. These ways also play important role in economic relations Azerbaijan and Iran. \n\nIn 2010 cargo turnover by motorway was 784.3 million tons, which is 14 times more than in 2003. The similar trend was observed in passenger turnover too. \n\n1,300 doctors and 3422 mid-level healthcare workers in all health care facilities are serving the population in the Lankaran economic region. 39 hospitals with 1846 beds, 181 outpatient clinics, as well as private stomatological polyclinics render service to the population. \n\n124616 pupils are enrolled in 566 schools operating in Lankaran economic region. A higher education institution in the region is Lankaran State University. A network of secondary schools, dramatic theatre, ethnographic museum and other social facilities operate in the region.\n\nAdministrative divisions of Azerbaijan\n\nGuba-Khachmaz economic region\n"}
{"id": "1791234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791234", "title": "List of LGBT rights articles by region", "text": "List of LGBT rights articles by region\n\nList of LGBT rights by region, including countries, commonwealths, disputed territories, and other regions.\n\nAs Antarctica has no resident human population, the human presence there is limited to short term research or sporting expeditions. The Antarctic Treaty System provides that all legal rights in Antarctica are governed by those of the person's home nation, and do not change based on which country's Antarctic territorial claim the person happens to be present in at any given time.\n\n"}
{"id": "45637295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45637295", "title": "List of South American metropolitan areas by population", "text": "List of South American metropolitan areas by population\n\nThis is a list of the fifty most populous metropolitan areas in South America as of 2015, the most recent year for which official census results, estimates or projections are available for every major metropolitan area in South America. All figures refer to mid-year populations.<br>\n"}
{"id": "3528473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3528473", "title": "List of animals representing first-level administrative country subdivisions", "text": "List of animals representing first-level administrative country subdivisions\n\nThis is a list of animals that represent first-level administrative country subdivisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52132620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52132620", "title": "List of birds of Curaçao", "text": "List of birds of Curaçao\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in Curaçao. The avifauna of Curaçao has 217 confirmed species, of which 13 have been introduced by humans and 75 are rare or vagrants. An additional four species are hypothetical (see below). None are endemic.\n\nExcept as an entry is cited otherwise, the list of species is that of the South American Classification Committee (SACC) of the American Ornithological Society. The list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families, and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) are also those of the SACC.\n\nThe following tags have been used to highlight certain categories of occurrence.\n\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nAnatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Odontophoridae\n\nThe New World quails are small, plump terrestrial birds only distantly related to the quails of the Old World, but named for their similar appearance and habits.\n\n\nOrder: PhoenicopteriformesFamily: Phoenicopteridae\n\nFlamingos are gregarious wading birds, usually tall, found in both the Western and Eastern Hemispheres. Flamingos filter-feed on shellfish and algae. Their oddly shaped beaks are specially adapted to separate mud and silt from the food they consume and, uniquely, are used upside-down.\n\n\nOrder: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae\n\nGrebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners, and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails, and strong legs.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Caprimulgidae\n\nNightjars are medium-sized nocturnal birds that usually nest on the ground. They have long wings, short legs, and very short bills. Most have small feet, of little use for walking, and long pointed wings. Their soft plumage is camouflaged to resemble bark or leaves.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nSwifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Trochilidae\n\nHummingbirds are small birds capable of hovering in mid-air due to the rapid flapping of their wings. They are the only birds that can fly backwards.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nRallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots, and gallinules. Typically they inhabit dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps, or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. They tend to have short, rounded wings and are weak fliers.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short thick necks and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Haematopodidae\n\nThe oystercatchers are large and noisy plover-like birds, with strong bills used for smashing or prising open molluscs.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Recurvirostridae\n\nRecurvirostridae is a family of large wading birds, which includes the avocets and stilts. The avocets have long legs and long up-curved bills. The stilts have extremely long legs and long, thin, straight bills.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Burhinidae\n\nThe thick-knees are a group of waders found worldwide within the tropical zone, with some species also breeding in temperate Europe and Australia. They are medium to large waders with strong black or yellow-black bills, large yellow eyes, and cryptic plumage. Despite being classed as waders, most species have a preference for arid or semi-arid habitats.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers, and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Jacanidae\n\nThe jacanas are a group of waders found throughout the tropics. They are identifiable by their huge feet and claws which enable them to walk on floating vegetation in the shallow lakes that are their preferred habitat.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Stercorariidae\n\nThe family Stercorariidae are, in general, medium to large birds, typically with gray or brown plumage, often with white markings on the wings. They nest on the ground in temperate and arctic regions and are long-distance migrants.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Rynchopidae\n\nSkimmers are a small family of tropical tern-like birds. They have an elongated lower mandible which they use to feed by flying low over the water surface and skimming the water for small fish.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds and includes gulls, kittiwakes, and terns. They are typically gray or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with gray or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterized by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Hydrobatidae\n\nThe storm-petrels are relatives of the petrels and are the smallest seabirds. They feed on planktonic crustaceans and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. The flight is fluttering and sometimes bat-like.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black-and-white, or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have colored inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nThe sulids comprise the gannets and boobies. Both groups are medium to large coastal seabirds that plunge-dive for fish.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Phalacrocoracidae\n\nPhalacrocoracidae is a family of medium to large coastal, fish-eating seabirds that includes cormorants and shags. Plumage coloration varies, with the majority having mainly dark plumage, some species being black-and-white, and a few being colorful.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Pelecanidae\n\nPelicans are large water birds with a distinctive pouch under their beak. As with other members of the order Pelecaniformes, they have webbed feet with four toes.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons, and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises, and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Threskiornithidae\n\nThreskiornithidae is a family of large terrestrial and wading birds which includes the ibises and spoonbills. They have long, broad wings with 11 primary and about 20 secondary feathers. They are strong fliers and despite their size and weight, very capable soarers.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Pandionidae\n\nThe family Pandionidae contains only one species, the osprey. The osprey is a medium-large raptor which is a specialist fish-eater with a worldwide distribution.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Accipitridae\n\nAccipitridae is a family of birds of prey, which includes hawks, eagles, kites, harriers, and Old World vultures. These birds have powerful hooked beaks for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons, and keen eyesight.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Tytonidae\n\nBarn-owls are medium to large owls with large heads and characteristic heart-shaped faces. They have long strong legs with powerful talons.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Strigidae\n\nThe typical owls are small to large solitary nocturnal birds of prey. They have large forward-facing eyes and ears, a hawk-like beak, and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye called a facial disk.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae\n\nFalconidae is a family of diurnal birds of prey. They differ from hawks, eagles, and kites in that they kill with their beaks instead of their talons.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittaculidae.\n\nCharacteristic features of parrots include a strong curved bill, an upright stance, strong legs, and clawed zygodactyl feet. Many parrots are vividly colored, and some are multi-colored. Old World parrots are found from Africa east across south and southeast Asia and Oceania to Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittacidae.\n\nParrots are small to large birds with a characteristic curved beak. Their upper mandibles have slight mobility in the joint with the skull and they have a generally erect stance. All parrots are zygodactyl, having the four toes on each foot placed two at the front and two to the back.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Tyrannidae\n\nTyrant flycatchers are passerine birds which occur throughout North and South America. They superficially resemble the Old World flycatchers, but are more robust and have stronger bills. They do not have the sophisticated vocal capabilities of the songbirds. Most, but not all, have plain coloring. As the name implies, most are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Vireonidae\n\nThe vireos are a group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World. They are typically greenish in color and resemble New World warblers apart from their heavier bills.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae\n\nThe family Hirundinidae is adapted to aerial feeding. They have a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings, and a short bill with a wide gape. The feet are adapted to perching rather than walking, and the front toes are partially joined at the base.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Bombycillidae\n\nThe waxwings are a group of birds with soft silky plumage and unique red tips to some of the wing feathers. In the Bohemian and cedar waxwings, these tips look like sealing wax and give the group its name. These are arboreal birds of northern forests. They live on insects in summer and berries in winter.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Turdidae\n\nThe thrushes are a group of passerine birds that occur mainly in the Old World. They are plump, soft plumaged, small to medium-sized insectivores or sometimes omnivores, often feeding on the ground. Many have attractive songs.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Muscicapidae\n\nThe Old World flycatchers are a large family of small passerine birds mostly restricted to the Old World. These are mainly small arboreal insectivores, many of which, as the name implies, take their prey on the wing.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Mimidae\n\nThe mimids are a family of passerine birds that includes thrashers, mockingbirds, tremblers, and the New World catbirds. These birds are notable for their vocalizations, especially their ability to mimic a wide variety of birds and other sounds heard outdoors. Their coloring tends towards dull-grays and browns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Thraupidae\n\nThe tanagers are a large group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World, mainly in the tropics. Many species are brightly colored. They are seed eaters, but their preference tends towards fruit and nectar. Most have short, rounded wings.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae\n\nMost of the species are known as sparrows, but these birds are not closely related to the Old World sparrows which are in the family Passeridae. Many of these have distinctive head patterns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cardinalidae\n\nThe cardinals are a family of robust, seed-eating birds with strong bills. They are typically associated with open woodland. The sexes usually have distinct plumages.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Parulidae\n\nThe New World warblers are a group of small, often colorful, passerine birds restricted to the New World. Most are arboreal, but some are terrestrial. Most members of this family are insectivores.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Icteridae\n\nThe icterids are a group of small to medium-sized, often colorful, passerine birds restricted to the New World and include the grackles, New World blackbirds, and New World orioles. Most species have black as the predominant plumage color, often enlivened by yellow, orange, or red.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Ploceidae\n\nThe weavers are small passerine birds related to the finches. They are seed-eating birds with rounded conical bills. The males of many species are brightly colored, usually in red or yellow and black, some species show variation in color only in the breeding season.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passeridae\n\nOld World sparrows are small passerine birds. In general, sparrows tend to be small, plump, brown or gray birds with short tails and short powerful beaks. Sparrows are seed eaters, but they also consume small insects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11356554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11356554", "title": "List of mammals of Tokelau", "text": "List of mammals of Tokelau\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Tokelau. There are 4 mammal species in Tokelau, all of which are marine mammals of the order Cetacea.\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140297", "title": "Local government areas of Tasmania", "text": "Local government areas of Tasmania\n\nLocal government areas of Tasmania are the 29 administrative districts of the Australian state of Tasmania. Local government areas (LGAs), more generally known as councils, are the tier of government responsible for the management of local duties such as road maintenance, town planning and waste management.\n\nThere are 29 local government areas of Tasmania:\n\nThe following is a list of local government areas grouped by region, and the major towns and suburbs within each LGA.\n\nGreater Hobart contains six LGAs:\n\nThe south-east area councils contains four LGAs:\n\nThe north-east area councils contain three LGAs:\n\nThe Launceston area councils contain four LGAs:\n\nThe north-west and west coast councils contain nine LGAs:\n\nThe Central councils contain three LGAs:\n\nTasmania has had a number of former local government areas. In 1907, the 149 road trusts or town boards (LGAs) of Tasmania were reduced by mergers and amalgamations to 53 LGAs. By the time of a large scale overhaul in 1993, 46 LGAs were reduced to the present-day 29.\n\n"}
{"id": "341465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341465", "title": "M18 motorway (Great Britain)", "text": "M18 motorway (Great Britain)\n\nThe M18 is a motorway in Yorkshire, England. It runs from the east of Rotherham to Goole and is approximately long. A section of the road forms part of the unsigned Euroroute E13.\n\nThe M18 runs in a north east/south west direction from junction 32 of the M1 motorway to junction 35 of the M62 motorway. It passes east of Rotherham, southeast of Doncaster and Armthorpe, and west of Thorne. It meets the A1(M) at junction 2 (A1(M) junction 35)--known as the Wadworth Interchange—and the M180 motorway at junction 5. Access to Doncaster is provided from junctions 3 (A6182) and 4 (A630)\n\nMuch of the M18 is a two lane dual carriageway, and carries relatively low volumes of traffic. However, the section linking the M1 and A1(M) is much busier and has three lanes in each direction. It then passes over the Wadworth Viaduct. To the north it then crosses the East Coast Main Line, and until its closure and the dismantling of the pit head gear, a large colliery could be seen to the south at Rossington.\n\nGreat Yorkshire Way (formerly Finningley and Rossington Regeneration Route Scheme (FARRRS)) is a new road scheme running between the M18 at Junction 3 and Doncaster Sheffield Airport, improving access primarily to the airport, Rossington and the new Doncaster iPort. Work started in 2013 and the first phase of the road between M18 junction 3 and the A638 road became operational in February 2016. Work on the second and final phase connecting the A638 and the airport began in June 2017 and was completed in June 2018.\n\nIn order to provide better access to FARRRS and Doncaster town centre, the section of the M18 between junctions 2 and 3 northbound was upgraded to 3 lanes, between 20 June 2014 and 12 June 2015.\n\n\nThe M18 was originally to be part of the M1, but it was decided to route the M1 towards Leeds instead of Doncaster, and the routing of what would have been the M1 east of Sheffield became the M18.\n\nData from driver location signs are used to provide distance and carriageway identifier information. The location sequence is a continuation of the M1 location sequence.\n\n!scope=col|miles\n!scope=col|km\n!scope=col abbr=\"Southbound\"|Southbound exits (B carriageway)\n!scope=col|Junction\n!scope=col abbr=\"Northbound\"|Northbound exits (A carriageway)\n!scope=col|Coordinates\n\n\n"}
{"id": "422379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422379", "title": "Massif Central", "text": "Massif Central\n\nThe Massif Central (; ) is a highland region in the middle of Southern France, consisting of mountains and plateaus. It covers approximately 15% of mainland France.\n\nSubject to volcanism that has subsided in the last 10,000 years, these central mountains are separated from the Alps by a deep north–south cleft created by the Rhône river and known in French as the \"sillon rhodanien\" (literally \"Rhône furrow\"). The region was a barrier to transport within France until the opening of the A75 motorway, which not only made north–south travel easier, but also opened up the Massif itself.\n\nThe Massif Central is an old massif, formed during the Variscan orogeny, consisting mostly of granitic and metamorphic rocks. It was powerfully raised and made to look geologically younger in the eastern section by the uplift of the Alps during the Paleogene period and in the southern section by the uplift of the Pyrenees. The massif thus presents a strongly asymmetrical elevation profile with highlands in the south and in the east (Cévennes) dominating the valley of the Rhône and the plains of Languedoc and by contrast, the less elevated region of Limousin in the northwest.\n\nThese tectonic movements created faults and may be the origin of the volcanism in the Massif (but the hypothesis is not proved yet). In fact, above the crystalline foundation, we can observe many volcanoes of many different types and ages: volcanic plateaus (Aubrac, Cézallier), stratovolcanoes (Mounts of Cantal, Monts Dore), and small, very recent monogenic volcanoes (Chaîne des Puys, Vivarais). The entire region contains a large concentration of approximately 450 extinct volcanoes. The Chaîne des Puys, a range running north to south and less than long, contains 115 of them. The is in the massif.\n\nIn the south, one remarkable region, made up of features called \"causses\" in French, consists of raised chalky plateaus cut by very deep canyons. The most famous of these is the canyon of the Tarn.\n\nMountain ranges, with notable individual mountains, are (roughly north to south):\n\n\n\nThe following departments are generally considered as part of the Massif Central: Allier, Ardèche, Aude, Aveyron, Cantal, Corrèze, Creuse, Gard, Haute-Loire, Haute-Vienne, Hérault, Loire, Lot, Lozère, Puy-de-Dôme, Rhône, and Tarn; these form parts of the regions of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Occitanie.\n\nThe largest cities in the region are Clermont-Ferrand, Limoges and Saint-Étienne.\n\n"}
{"id": "5319521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5319521", "title": "Milmilgee Falls", "text": "Milmilgee Falls\n\nThe Milmilgee Falls, a waterfall on the Freshwater Creek, is located in the Far North region of Queensland, Australia.\n\nFrom the plateau of the Atherton Tableland at an elevation of above sea level, the falls descend between and are situated below the Copperlode Falls Dam; approximately west of Cairns.\n\n"}
{"id": "16671676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16671676", "title": "One Percent for the Planet", "text": "One Percent for the Planet\n\nOne Percent for the Planet is an international organization whose members contribute at least one percent of their annual sales to environmental causes. Their mission is to \"build, support and activate an alliance of businesses financially committed to creating a healthy planet.\" One Percent for the Planet members assist nonprofit organisations\nthat protect land, forests, rivers, oceans and also encourage sustainable methods of energy production.\n\nOne Percent for the Planet was founded by Yvon Chouinard and Craig Mathews in 2002 to “encourage more businesses to donate 1% of sales to environmental groups”. Yvon Chouinard is the founder of the Patagonia clothing company and Craig Mathews is the founder of Blue Ribbon Files. The organisation now claims over 1200 members in 48 countries.\n\nThe first launch of the organization took place in San Francisco at the Patagonia store in 2002. The second launch took place in Denver, Colorado at the “Fly Fishing Retailer show” in 2003. In 2004, Brushfire Records and The Moonshine Conspiracy joined as the 50th members of the organisation.\n\n\"Let My People Go Surfing\" was a book authored by Yvon Chouinard in 2005, and discusses the journey of One Percent for the Planet. According to the organisation, 2005 ended with more than 200 company memberships within the organisation.\n\n\"Making A Difference\" series hosted by NBC Nightly News showcased One Percent for the Planet in 2006 and resulted in an additional 50 members, according to the organisation. The organisation reached 1000 members in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, a digital music album titled \"1% for the Planet, The Music, Vol.1\" was released, featuring 40 artists. The album was number one on Amazon’s MP3 chart and top-40 overall albums on iTunes.\n\nA media partner program was created in 2011 consisting of “artists, athletes and activists” as ambassadors for the organisation.\n\nIn 2012, One Percent for Profit global network claims to have contributed more than $100 million “to environmental preservation”. This year, the organisation created the “High Impact Partnerships” program which aims to enable companies and non governmental organisations “to identify issues where they share concern and collaborate to do more together than they can alone.”\n\n1% of the sales of the member companies are directed to “sustainability-oriented nonprofits” that they choose to support. One Percent for the Planet evaluates the “track record, credibility and impact” of the nonprofit organisation and also verifies the contributions made by the member companies. The following “Issue Categories” are supported by the member companies: alternative transportation, climate change, energy and resource extraction, environmental education, environmental law and justice, environment and human health, food, land, pollution, water and wildlife.\n\nOne Percent for the Planet offers both corporate memberships and individual memberships. The corporate membership allow companies to contribute 1% of their gross annual sales to non profit organisations that “focus on environmental causes”.\n\nThe Canadian Fair Trade Network joined One Percent for the Planet in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "192649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192649", "title": "Peerage of Ireland", "text": "Peerage of Ireland\n\nThe Peerage of Ireland consists of those titles of nobility created by the English monarchs in their capacity as Lord or King of Ireland, or later by monarchs of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. The creation of such titles came to an end in the 19th century. The ranks of the Irish peerage are Duke, Marquess, Earl, Viscount and Baron. As of 2016, there were 135 titles in the Peerage of Ireland extant: two dukedoms, ten marquessates, 43 earldoms, 28 viscountcies, and 52 baronies. The Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain & Northern Ireland continues to exercise jurisdiction over the Peerage of Ireland, including those peers whose titles derive from places located in what is now the Republic of Ireland. Article 40.2 of the Irish Constitution forbids the state conferring titles of nobility and a citizen may not accept titles of nobility or honour except with the prior approval of the Government. As stated above, this issue does not arise in respect of the Peerage of Ireland, as no creations of titles in it have been made since the Constitution came into force.\n\nIn the following table, each peer is listed only by his or her highest Irish title, showing higher or equal titles in the other peerages. Those peers who are known by a higher title in one of the other peerages are listed in \"italics\".\n\nA handful of titles in the peerage of Ireland date from the Middle Ages. Before 1801, Irish peers had the right to sit in the Irish House of Lords, on the abolition of which by the Union effective in 1801 by an Act of 1800 they regularly elected a small proportion: twenty-eight \"representative peers\" of their number to the House of Lords at Westminster.\n\nBoth before and after the Union, Irish peerages were often used as a way of creating peerages which did not grant a seat in the English House of Lords and so allowed the grantee (such as Clive of India) to sit in the House of Commons in London. As a consequence, many Irish peers had little or no connection to Ireland, and indeed the names of some Irish peerages refer to places in Great Britain (for example, the Earldom of Mexborough refers to a place in England and the Ranfurly refers to a village in Scotland). Irish peerages continued to be created for almost a century after the Union, although the treaty of Union placed restrictions on their numbers: three needed to become extinct before a new peerage could be granted, until there were only one hundred Irish peers (exclusive of those who held any peerage of Great Britain subsisting at the time of the union, or of the United Kingdom created since the union)– a condition still not achieved. There was a spate of creations of Irish peerages from 1797 onward, mostly peerages of higher ranks for existing Irish peers, as part of the negotiation of the Act of Union; this ended in the first week of January 1801, but the restrictions of the Act were not applied to the last few peers. Irish peerages were created in the early nineteenth century at least as often as the Act permitted, but the pace then slowed.\n\nThe last two grants of Irish peerages were: the promotion of the Marquess of Abercorn (a peerage of Great Britain) to be Duke of Abercorn in the Irish Peerage when he became Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland in 1868 and the granting of the Curzon of Kedleston barony to George Curzon when he became Viceroy of India in 1898. Peers of Ireland have precedence below peers of England, Scotland, and Great Britain of the same rank, and above peers of the United Kingdom of the same rank; but Irish peers created after 1801 yield to United Kingdom peers of earlier creation. Accordingly, the Duke of Abercorn (the junior Duke in the Peerage of Ireland) ranks between the Duke of Sutherland and the Duke of Westminster (both dukes in the Peerage of the United Kingdom).\n\nWhen one of the Irish representative peers died, the Irish Peerage met to elect his replacement; but the officers required to arrange this were abolished as part of the creation of the Irish Free State. The existing representative peers kept their seats in the House of Lords, but they have not been replaced. Since the death of Francis Needham, 4th Earl of Kilmorey in 1961, none remains. The right of the Irish Peerage to elect representatives was abolished by statute in 1971.\n\nIn the following table of the Peerage of Ireland as it currently stands, each peer's highest titles in each of the other peerages (if any) are also listed. Irish peers possessed of titles in any of the other peerages (except Scotland, which only got the right to an automatic seat in 1963, with the Peerage Act 1963) had automatic seats in the House of Lords until 1999.\n\nIn Ireland, \"barony\" may also refer to an obsolete political subdivision of a county. There is no connection between such a barony and the noble title of baron.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57819278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57819278", "title": "Pilar Benejam Arguimbau", "text": "Pilar Benejam Arguimbau\n\nPilar Benejam i Arguimbau (born 1937) is a Spanish geographer and pedagogue. In 1961 she graduated in teaching from the School of the Balearic Islands. In 1966 she obtained a licentiate in pedagogy, and another in history from the University of Barcelona in 1972. Finally, in 1985, she received a doctorate in pedagogy from the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB).\n\nPilar Benejam Arguimbau has a distant kinship with Professor Joan Benejam i Vives (1846–1922).\n\nSince 1972, she has been a professor in the Department of Language Teaching, Literature, and Social Sciences at the UAB.\n\nShe has worked at the Costa y Llobera School, and at the Talitha School.\n\nShe has been part of several commissions for the reform of teacher training in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. She is an expert in issues of review of school programming in social sciences, and has advised public administrations in reference to the overall training cycle. Since 1994, she has been director of the UAB's Institute of Education Sciences.\n\nShe has been interested in all aspects of pedagogical renovation and didactic innovation, and in the introduction of the teaching of the different epistemological proposals of geography. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2715609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2715609", "title": "Potisje", "text": "Potisje\n\nPotisje () is the name of the Tisa river basin parts located in Serbia, in the autonomous province of Vojvodina. The river Tisa flow between Banat and Bačka regions.\n\nMunicipalities in Bačka:\n\nMunicipalities in Banat:\n\nIn the 1st century, ancient author Plinius used name \"Pathissus\" to describe a surroundings of the river Tisa. Because of the similarity of this name with modern Slavic name \"Potisje\" (meaning approximately \"a land around river Tisa\" in Slavic), which is a typical Slavic name used for surroundings of the rivers (like Podunavlje, Pomoravlje, etc.), name mentioned by Plinius might indicate an early Slavic presence in the area.\n\nBetween 1702 and 1751, the western part of Potisje (in the region of Bačka) belonged to the Tisa-Mureş (Potisje-Pomorišje) section of the Habsburg Military Frontier. Potisje segment of the Frontier included towns near river Tisa: Bečej, Ada, Senta and Kanjiža (in present-day Serbia), Szeged (in present-day Hungary), as well as other places in Bačka, including Subotica, Sombor and Sentomaš (Srbobran). After the abolishment of this part of the Frontier in 1751, many Serbs that lived in the region emigrated to Russia (notably to New Serbia and Slavo-Serbia). To prevent this emigration, the Habsburg authorities formed autonomous District of Potisje with seat in Bečej. District of Potisje existed between 1751 and 1848. The three privileges were given to the district in 1759, 1774, and 1800. First privilege of the District defined its autonomous status, while the second one allowed to ethnic Hungarians to settle in the district. In the following period many Hungarians settled in Potisje and they replaced Serbs as a dominant nation in parts of the region.\n\nThe municipalities with Serb ethnic majority are: Žabalj (86%), Titel (85%), Novi Kneževac (59%), Kikinda (76%), Novi Bečej (69%), and Zrenjanin (74%).\n\nThe municipalities with Hungarian ethnic majority are: Kanjiža (86%), Senta (81%), Ada (77%), and Čoka (52%).\n\nThe Bečej municipality is ethnically mixed with 49% Hungarians and 41% Serbs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42553516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42553516", "title": "Qala-e-Haji sahib", "text": "Qala-e-Haji sahib\n\nQala-e-Haji sahib is a village in Surkh-Rōd District, Nangarhar Province, Afghanistan. It is located in the capital of Surkh-Rod district, Sultanpur. It is bordered by Surkh-Rod river to the north. This village is named after the great grand fathers who did hajj:Haji shahbaz, Haji Muhammadbaz and Haji Shireen stanikzai shaibaan.\nHaji Abdulamir, Haji Alamir and Haji Miralam are among the sons of them.\nthey were known for their simplicity, sincerity and charity. Most of the people from this village are from the tribe of Stanikzai and the sub tribe of khutubkhail.\n\ncuisine vary among them. haji sahibaan are also known for their large varieties of dried fruit and yogurt based dishes. Yogurt called maste is usually made by the themselves in their own homes. Chai (tea) plays a big role in Pashtun gatherings and is served with dried fruits and kulcha (biscuit). Desserts such as firni (custard) are also very popular.\n\nThere are cows, sheep, goats, and chickens. The milk and eggs are sold. The plants that are grown there are wheat, sugarcane, tomatoes, okra, egg plant, onion, lime, green chili and loquat.\n"}
{"id": "52434656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52434656", "title": "Snow science", "text": "Snow science\n\nSnow science addresses how snow forms, its distribution, and processes affecting how snowpacks change over time. Scientists improve storm forecasting, study global snow cover and its effect on climate, glaciers, and water supplies around the world. The study includes physical properties of the material as it changes, bulk properties of in-place snow packs, and the aggregate properties of regions with snow cover. In doing so, they employ on-the-ground physical measurement techniques to establish ground truth and remote sensing techniques to develop understanding of snow-related processes over large areas.\n\nSnow was described in China, as early as 135 BCE in Han Ying's book \"Disconnection, which contrasted the pentagonal symmetry of flowers with the hexagonal symmetry of snow. Albertus Magnus proved what may be the earliest detailed European description of snow in 1250. Johannes Kepler attempted to explain why snow crystals are hexagonal in his 1611 book, \"Strenaseu De Nive Sexangula\". In 1675 Friedrich Martens, a German physician, catalogued 24 types of snow crystal. In 1865, Frances E. Chickering published \"Cloud Crystals - a Snow-Flake Album\". In 1894, A. A. Sigson photographed snowflakes under a microscope, preceding Wilson Bentley's series of photographs of individual snowflakes in the \"Monthly Weather Review\".\n\nUkichiro Nakaya began an extensive study on snowflakes in 1932. From 1936 to 1949, Nakaya created the first artificial snow crystals and charted the relationship between temperature and water vapor saturation, later called the \"Nakaya Diagram\" and other works of research in snow, which were published in 1954 by Harvard University Press publishes as \"Snow Crystals: Natural and Artificial\". Teisaku Kobayashi, verified and improves the \"Nakaya Diagram\" with the 1960 \"Kobayashi Diagram\", later refined in 1962.\n\nFurther interest in artificial snowflake genesis continued in 1979 with Toshio Kurod and Rolf Lacmann, of the Braunschweig University of Technology, publishing \"Growth Mechanism of Ice from Vapour Phase and its Growth Forms\". In August 1983, Astronauts synthesized snow crystals in orbit on the Space Shuttle Challenger during mission STS-8. By 1988 Norihiko Fukuta et al. confirmed the \"Nakaya Diagram\" with artificial snow crystals, made in an updraft and Yoshinori Furukawa demonstrated snow crystal growth in space.\n\nSnow scientists typically excavate a snow pit within which to make basic measurements and observations. Observations can describe features caused by wind, water percolation, or snow unloading from trees.Water percolation into a snowpack can create flow fingers and ponding or flow along capillary barriers, which can refreeze into horizontal and vertical solid ice formations within the snowpack. Among the measurements of the properties of snowpacks (together with their codes) that the \"International Classification for Seasonal Snow on the Ground\" presents are:\n\n\"Depth\" – Depth of snow is measured with a snowboard (typically a piece of plywood painted white) observed during a six-hour period. At the end of the six-hour period, all snow is cleared from the measuring surface. For a daily total snowfall, four six-hour snowfall measurements are summed. Snowfall can be very difficult to measure due to melting, compacting, blowing and drifting.\n\n\"Liquid equivalent by snow gauge\" – The liquid equivalent of snowfall may be evaluated using a snow gauge or with a standard rain gauge having a diameter of 100 mm (4 in; plastic) or 200 mm (8 in; metal). Rain gauges are adjusted to winter by removing the funnel and inner cylinder and allowing the snow/freezing rain to collect inside the outer cylinder. Antifreeze liquid may be added to melt the snow or ice that falls into the gauge. In both types of gauges once the snowfall/ice is finished accumulating, or as its height in the gauge approaches , the snow is melted and the water amount recorded.\n\nThe \"International Classification for Seasonal Snow on the Ground\" has a more extensive classification of deposited snow than those that pertain to airborne snow. A list of the main categories (quoted together with their codes) comprises:\n\nThe classification of frozen particulates extends the prior classifications of Nakaya and his successors and are quoted in the following table:\n\n\"All are formed in cloud, except for rime, which forms on objects exposed to supercooled moisture, and some plate, dendrites and stellars, which can form in a temperature inversion under clear sky.\"\n\nEach such layer of a snowpack differs from the adjacent layers by one or more characteristics that describe its microstructure or density, which together define the snow type, and other physical properties. Thus, at any one time, the type and state of the snow forming a layer have to be defined because its physical and mechanical properties depend on them. The \"International Classification for Seasonal Snow on the Ground\" lays out the following measurements of snow properties (together with their codes):\n\n\nRemote sensing of snowpacks with satellites and other platforms typically includes multi-spectral collection of imagery. Sophisticated interpretation of the data obtained allows inferences about what is observed. The science behind these remote observations has been verified with ground-truth studies of the actual conditions.\n\nSatellite observations record a decrease in snow-covered areas since the 1960s, when satellite observations began. In some regions such as China, a trend of increasing snow cover has been observed (from 1978 to 2006). These changes are attributed to global climate change, which may lead to earlier melting and less aea coverage. However, in some areas there may be an increase in snow depth because of higher temperatures for latitudes north of 40°. For the Northern Hemisphere as a whole the mean monthly snow-cover extent has been decreasing by 1.3% per decade.\n\nSatellite observation of snow relies on the usefulness of the physical and spectral properties of snow for analysing remotely sensed data. Dietz, et al. summarize this, as follows:\n\nThe most frequently used methods to map and measure snow extent, snow depth and snow water equivalent employ multiple inputs on the visible–infrared spectrum to deduce the presence and properties of snow. The National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) uses the reflectance of visible and infrared radiation to calculate a normalized difference snow index, which is a ratio of radiation parameters that can distinguish between clouds and snow. Other researchers have developed decision trees, employing the available data to make more accurate assessments. One challenge to this assessment is where snow cover is patchy, for example during periods of accumulation or ablation and also in forested areas. Cloud cover inhibits optical sensing of surface reflectance, which has led to other methods for estimating ground conditions underneath clouds. For hydrological models, it is important to have continuous information about the snow cover. Applicable techniques involve interpolation, using the known to infer the unknown. Passive microwaves sensors are especially valuable for temporal and spatial continuity because they can map the surface beneath clouds and in darkness. When combined with reflective measurements, passive microwave sensing greatly extends the inferences possible about the snowpack.\n\nSnow science often leads to predictive models that include snow deposition, snow melt, and snow hydrology—elements of the Earth's water cycle—which help describe global climate change.\n\nGlobal climate change models (GCMs) incorporate snow as a factor in their calculations. Some important aspects of snow cover include its albedo (reflectivity of light) and insulating qualities, which slow the rate of seasonal melting of sea ice. As of 2011, the melt phase of GCM snow models were thought to perform poorly in regions with complex factors that regulate snowmelt, such as vegetation cover and terrain. These models compute snow water equivalent (SWE) in some manner, such as:\n\nSWE = [ –ln( 1 – \"f\" )] / \"D\"\n\nwhere:\n\nGiven the importance of snowmelt to agriculture, hydrological runoff models that include snow in their predictions address the phases of accumulating snowpack, melting processes, and distribution of the meltwater through stream networks and into the groundwater. Key to describing the melting processes are solar heat flux, ambient temperature, wind, and precipitation. Initial snowmelt models used a degree-day approach that emphasized the temperature difference between the air and the snowpack to compute snow water equivalent (SWE) as:\n\nSWE = \"M\" (\"T\" – \"T\") when \"T\" ≥ \"T\"\n\nwhere:\n\nMore recent models use an energy balance approach that take into account the following factors to compute the energy available for melt (\"Q\") as:\n\n\"Q\" = \"Q\" +\"Q\" + \"Q\" + \"Q\" + \"Q\" – \"Q\"\n\nwhere:\n\nCalculation of the various heat flow quantities (\"Q\" ) requires measurement of a much greater range of snow and environmental factors than just temperatures.\n\nKnowledge gained from science translates into engineering. Four examples are the construction and maintenance of facilities on polar ice caps, the establishment of snow runways, the design of snow tires and ski sliding surfaces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381340", "title": "St. Cedd's College, Cambridge", "text": "St. Cedd's College, Cambridge\n\nSt. Cedd's College is a fictional college, created by Douglas Adams, of Cambridge University.\nIt appears in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Shada\", and in the novel \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\".\n\nIt is the home of Professor Chronotis, a retired time traveller who appears in Adams' fiction, and—in the fictional universe—was also the college of Isaac Newton (who attended Trinity) and Samuel Taylor Coleridge (who attended Jesus). It was named after Saint Cedd, brother of Saint Chad (after whom St Chad's College, Durham is named), whom Gently describes as \"one of the duller Northumbrian saints.\"\n\nIt is based somewhat on Adams's own college, St John's. For \"Shada\", scenes at St. Cedd's were filmed on location at Emmanuel College. In a 2012 episode of the TV adaptation \"Dirk Gently\", Wills Hall at the University of Bristol was used as St. Cedd's College instead.\n\nSt. Cedd's College is also mentioned in the Torchwood online game, made during the show's second series. It is said to be the college attended by Dr. John Winters, a fictional character within the game.\n"}
{"id": "47260951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47260951", "title": "Starjak", "text": "Starjak\n\nStarjak is a village in Croatia. \n"}
{"id": "18071025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18071025", "title": "Telephone numbers in Oman", "text": "Telephone numbers in Oman\n\nTelephone numbers in the Sultanate of Oman have NSN length of 8 digits.\n\nFormat: +968 24567666\n\nMajor Telecom operators are Omantel, Oreedoo, Renna & Friendi\n"}
{"id": "11199110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11199110", "title": "Titan (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Titan (Marvel Comics)\n\nTitan is a fictional location appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Based on Saturn's real-life moon of the same name, it is depicted in the Marvel Universe as the home of the Titanian Eternals. It first appeared in \"Iron Man\" #55 (Feb 1973) and was conceived by Jim Starlin and Mike Friedrich. The Titanians, also known as Titans, were later retconned as being an offshoot of the Eternals, which had been created separately by Jack Kirby.\n\nThe colony of Titanian Eternals was founded about 750,000 years ago in the aftermath of a devastating civil war among the first generation of Earth's Eternals. The Eternals Uranos and Kronos led opposing factions, which clashed in a conflict of ideals over the Eternals' destiny as a people. Kronos' side prevailed, and Uranos and his surviving followers were exiled into space and landed on the planet Uranus. There, they discovered a supply depot guarded by a Kree Sentry. When the Eternals destroyed the Sentry and raided the outpost, the Kree armada came to investigate, thinking Earth’s solar system to be devoid of intelligent life. The armada destroyed the Eternals’ spacecraft, forcing them to crash on the moon Titan, where they hid from the Kree. There, the small group of survivors formed a colony beneath the surface of the moon, employing artificial life systems. These Eternals eventually fell prey to internal strife, and all of them but Sui-San were killed. Mentor, who had gone into voluntary exile, arrived on Titan, and the two Eternals began to repopulate the Titan colony.\n\nThese new Titanian Eternals achieved much scientifically and socially, not the least of which was ISAAC, an immense computer system that could monitor and maintain all of the life support functions of the inner world.\n\nUnder A'lars' leadership, Titan became a haven for peace. Then, A'lars (also known as Mentor) sired the last two of his numerous children: Eros and Thanos. Thanos was born a mutant, and grew up with dark visions of conquest and destruction. Thanos left Titan, recruited an army of mercenaries, and returned to attack. Only a hundred of Titan's thousands of inhabitants survived, and Sui-San perished in the slaughter. Eventually, the Titanians rebuilt the colony and restored it to a place of meditation and the pursuit of knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2857072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2857072", "title": "Triangulated irregular network", "text": "Triangulated irregular network\n\nA triangulated irregular network (TIN) is a representation of a continuous surface consisting entirely of triangular facets, used mainly as Discrete Global Grid in primary elevation modeling. \n\nThe vertices of these triangles are created from field recorded spot elevations through a variety of means including surveying through conventional, Global Positioning System Real-Time Kinematic (GPS RTK), photogrammetry, or some other means. Associated with three-dimensional data (\"x\", \"y\", and \"z\") and topography, TINs are useful for the description and analysis of general horizontal (\"x\" and \"y\") distributions and relationships.\n\nDigital TIN data structures are used in a variety of applications, including geographic information systems (GIS), and computer aided drafting (CAD) for the visual representation of a topographical surface. A TIN is an vector-based representation of the physical land surface or sea bottom, made up of irregularly distributed nodes and lines with three-dimensional coordinates (\"x\", \"y\", and \"z\") that are arranged in a network of non-overlapping triangles.\n\nA TIN comprises a triangular network of vertices, known as mass points, with associated coordinates in three dimensions connected by edges to form a triangular tessellation. Three-dimensional visualizations are readily created by rendering of the triangular facets. In regions where there is little variation in surface height, the points may be widely spaced whereas in areas of more intense variation in height the point density is increased.\n\nA TIN used to represent terrain is often called a digital elevation model (DEM), which can be further used to produce digital surface models (DSM) or digital terrain models (DTM). An advantage of using a TIN over a rasterized digital elevation model (DEM) in mapping and analysis is that the points of a TIN are distributed variably based on an algorithm that determines which points are most necessary to create an accurate representation of the terrain. Data input is therefore flexible and fewer points need to be stored than in a raster DEM, with regularly distributed points. While a TIN may be considered less suited than a raster DEM for certain kinds of GIS applications, such as analysis of a surface's slope and aspect, it is often used in CAD to create contour lines. A DTM and DSM can be formed from a DEM. A DEM can be interpolated from a TIN.\n\nTIN are based on a Delaunay triangulation or constrained Delaunay. Delaunay conforming triangulations are recommended over constrained triangulations. This is because the resulting TINs are likely to contain fewer long, skinny triangles, which are undesirable for surface analysis. Additionally, natural neighbor interpolation and Thiessen (Voronoi) polygon generation can only be performed on Delaunay conforming triangulations. A constrained Delaunay triangulation can be considered when you need to explicitly define certain edges that are guaranteed not to be modified (that is, split into multiple edges) by the triangulator. Constrained Delaunay triangulations are also useful for minimizing the size of a TIN, since they have fewer nodes and triangles where breaklines are not densified.\n\nThe TIN model was developed in the early 1970s as a simple way to build a surface from a set of irregularly spaced points. The first triangulated irregular network program for GIS was written by W. Randolph Franklin, under the direction of David Douglas and Thomas Peucker (Poiker), at Simon Fraser University in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "53682678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53682678", "title": "When in Rome, do as the Romans do", "text": "When in Rome, do as the Romans do\n\nWhen in Rome, do as the Romans do (often shortened to when in Rome...) or a later version when in Rome, do as the Pope does, a proverb attributed to Saint Ambrose, means that it is advisable to follow the conventions of the area in which you are residing or visiting.\n\nSaint Monica and her son, Saint Augustine, found out that Saturday was observed as a fast day in Rome, where they planned to visit. However, it was not a fast day where they lived in Milan. They consulted Saint Ambrose who said \"When I am here (in Milan) I do not fast on Saturday, when in Rome I do fast on Saturday.\" That reply is said to have brought about the saying \"When in Rome, do as the Romans do.\"\n"}
{"id": "230595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230595", "title": "Willem Frederik Hermans", "text": "Willem Frederik Hermans\n\nWillem Frederik Hermans (1 September 1921 – 27 April 1995) was a Dutch author of poetry, novels, short stories, plays, as well as booklength studies, essays, and literary criticism. His most famous works are \"The House of Refuge\" (novella, 1952), \"The Darkroom of Damocles\" (novel, 1958), and \"Beyond Sleep\" (novel, 1966).\n\nAfter World War II, Hermans tried to live off his writing exclusively, but as his country was just recovering from the Occupation, he had no opportunity to sustain himself. He published three important collections of short stories from 1948 to 1957, chief among them the novella \"The House of Refuge\" (1952), and in 1958 became lecturer in physical geography at Groningen University, a position he retained until his move to Paris, France, in 1973. The same year 1958 he broke to a wide audience with \"The Darkroom of Damocles\". In the seventies Hermans played an important role in the unmasking of Friedrich Weinreb as a cheater of Jews in the war. Hermans refused to accept the P.C. Hooftprijs for 1971. In 1977 he received the Prijs der Nederlandse Letteren, the most prestigious literary award available for writers in the language, handed out every three years alternately by the reigning Dutch and Belgian monarchs to a writer of the other country, the Belgian king Baudouin handing the prize to Hermans. Hermans is considered one of \"De Grote Drie\", the three most important authors in the Netherlands in the postwar period, along with Harry Mulisch and Gerard Reve.\n\nWillem Frederik Hermans was born on 1 September 1921 in Amsterdam to Johannes ('Johan') Hermans (1879-1967) and Hendrika ('Rika') Hillegonda Hermans-Eggelte (1884-1967), who already had a daughter, Cornelia ('Corry') Geertruida (1918-1940). His paternal great-grandfather and grandfather were breadbakers in the town of Brielle, members of the Dutch Reformed Church, and from the ranks of the \"lower bourgeoisie.\" Johan Hermans, the only one of the eight children (two sons and six daughters) allowed to pursue an education, became a grammar school teacher. Hermans' predominantly Lutheran maternal family was slightly more middle-class. All three sons of the great-grandfather, a goldsmith, became schoolteachers.\n\nJohan Hermans graduated as a teacher in 1898, and began his career as a teacher the same year in the Amsterdam area, where he met his future wife who was a teacher at the same school he worked. Right after the marriage in 1913 Rika Hermans quit working and devoted herself to the household, even though their first child would only be born five years later. From 1913 to 1929, the pair lived on the second floor of an apartment in the \"Old West\" part of Amsterdam, near the center of the city, in a neighbourhood with blocks built in 1910 especially to accommodate schoolteachers. In 1929 the family moved to another apartment in the same block, where they occupied the fourth floor, Corry having a large room for herself in the attic. Johan Hermans continued to improve his teaching qualifications, eventually rising to teach beyond grammar school. Though his own career was unremarkable, he had great ambitions for his two children, both of whom he sent to the prestigious Barlaeus Gymnasium, evidently to have them prepared for a college education. To save money to pay for such education, the parents were forced to be as tight with money as they could, especially since the salaries of teachers would be decreased thirteen times in the years from 1925 to 1940, with a 10% decrease in the period 1930-1933 alone. These were precisely the years when their children were growing up.\n\nHermans's intelligence first emerged at grammar school, where he was included in the selection of four boys who were taught a more challenging Arithmetic course than was demanded of the other classmates. Apart from that, he followed the standard curriculum: Reading, Writing, Geography (with attention to the Dutch Indies), Native History, Gymnastics, and Singing. The grades of his admittance to the Gymnasium in 1940 were generally good, though not outstanding.\n\nHermans's reading, remarkably well-documented from early age onward, included some favorites he could read again and again without exhausting them. Most important were children's versions of classic works: he cited the legend of King Arthur, which never ceased to give him the chills even as an elderly man, as \"the most significative work\" of his youth. \"Gulliver's Travels\", \"Robinson Crusoe\", which he could read over and over without ever getting enough of it. Alice in Wonderland both charmed and scared him, especially the poem on Father William. Besides these international classics, he also read Dutch children's book, most notably \"Woutertje Pieterse\" by Multatuli.\n\nHermans's parents did not adhere to any religion and did not even have a \"Bible\" at home. Yet on a visit with his parents to an acquaintance of theirs who was religious, he discovered a \"Bible\" for children by Siebold Ulfers, one of the century's most popular children's Bibles for its beautiful illustrations. He was allowed to take it home, though his father had some misgivings. Hermans was fascinated especially by the cruel Old Testament stories of Ahab and Jezebel, and of Jehu and Jehoram.\n\nHermans's interest in science, technology and especially inventors also emerged during these years. Angel's 1927 biography of Thomas Alva Edison was a favorite, and Bernard Jaffe's \"Crucibles. The Story of Chemistry\", read in a Dutch translation, also made an enormous impression on the young Hermans.\n\nIn 1933 Hermans enrolled in the prestigious Barlaeus gymnasium in Amsterdam, where most teachers held an academic degree and having written a dissertation was not even an exception among the teaching staff. The curriculum in the first class was Latin, Dutch, French, History, Geography, Arithmetic, Biology. In the second year this was augmented with Greek and German. In the first two classes Hermans's results were mediocre at best, and when he had to double the third class for lack of applying himself, he vowed such thing would never happen to him again. During this time Hermans had fallen under the spell of literature. When the school staged a performance of Sophocles's \"Antigone\", Hermans was given a minor role but the play left a lasting impression upon him: \"It was my first introduction to the kind of literature that could swipe away the everyday world like a dull nightmare.\" In that period, during the lessons in German Hermans delivered oral reports (in German) on Franz Kafka and Thomas Mann.\n\nHermans married Emmy Meurs (1923–2008), a Surinam woman, in 1950.\n\nIn 1957, Hermans worked as volunteer assistant to photographer Nico Jesse while writing his De donkere kamer van Damocles (The Darkroom of Damocles) which features a mysteriously blank photograph. In 1958 he was appointed reader in physical geography at Groningen University. In 1972, after accusations by among others the Calvinist Member of Parliament and later minister Jan de Koning that Hermans was using his time writing instead of lecturing, a parliamentary committee was set up to investigate the matter. The committee found that Hermans's chief crime was his use of university stationery for writing his notes.\n\nIn 1973, he resigned and settled as a full-time writer in Paris. In \"\" (Among professors) (1975) he described university life in Groningen in a bitter and satirical way. It can be read as a roman à clef and was entirely written on the empty sides of university letters, according to Hermans's alter ego Zomerplaag 'to do something useful with this expensive paper that would normally disappear unread in the garbage bin, polluting the environment'.\n\nHermans received honorary doctorates from the University of Liège (Luik) in 1990 and the University of Pretoria in 1993.\n\nUnderlying all of Hermans's works, says Hermans scholar Frans A. Janssen, is the theme of epistemological nihilism. Only the means employed by logic and the sciences are capable to produce reliable knowledge. All other fields of study, including philosophy, ethics, psychology, the humanities and societal studies, are unable to produce knowledge that can be called reliable or certain. Literature and the arts can \"show truths\" by employing irrational devices. For the greatest part the world is unknowable, and even language is no reliable tool of communication. Hermans's characters are personifications of this state of affairs, loners who continuously misinterpret the reality surrounding them, unable to do something meaningful with other interpretive views when confronted with them, victims to the mercy of chance, misunderstanding. They fail, going under to the discrepancy between the world and their representation of it. Eventually in this world eternal powers as aggressiveness and the strife for power win. There is no place for such concepts as freedom, responsibility, idealism: in the jungle of human existence a sacrifice for a good cause is meaningless. Specific elements of this pessimistic worldview are kindred to Marquis de Sade, Heinrich von Kleist, Arthur Schopenhauer, Sigmund Freud, Louis-Ferdinand Céline and Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nThere does not exist any benefit of hindsight, and the past is just as unknowable as is the present, if only because the past is never fully accessible. Osewoudt, the protagonist of \"The Darkroom of Damocles\", is unable to convince others of his past achievements, and geologist Alfred, the protagonist of \"Beyond Sleep\", is not sure if he would recognize a meteorite crater if he saw one.\n\nA recurrent theme in many of the author's novels and stories is the discrepancy between the protagonists' own view of themselves and the images that others have of them. Essentially, this the problem of Osewoudt of the war novel \"The Darkroom of Damocles\" (1958), who driven to despair to find acceptance for his view of himself. Unable to achieve such acceptance, he loses his identity as well as his life.\n\nHis style is existentialist and generally bleak, and his writing style is unique in Dutch literature with its short and pointed sentences. There is no doubt that he was influenced by World War II and the German occupation of the Netherlands between 1940 and 1945, and his longer novels (\"De tranen der acacia's\" and \"De donkere kamer van Damokles\") are set during the war. Even his more upbeat writings (\"Onder professoren\" and \"Au pair\") can have a strange, existentialist twist to them.\n\nHermans was notorious for his polemics, as was demonstrated in particular in the 'Weinreb affair', when he played a key role in the unmasking of a Jewish imposter who claimed to have been a resistance fighter helping other Jews during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.\n\nIn 1986, the Mayor and City Council of Amsterdam, Ed van Thijn, officially declared Hermans persona non-grata in Amsterdam as he visited South Africa in 1983 in defiance of a cultural boycott that was declared on that country because of its apartheid policy. Being married to a non-white woman, Hermans remained totally unrepentant and did not visit his birthplace again until 1993 for a book presentation, after the City Council had ended that status on his insistence.\n\nThe best example of Hermans's notoriety was the minor issue of the first volume of the memoirs of the minor writer C. Buddingh', which Hermans savagely and condescendingly criticised in a review in 1979. The next volume was published only in 1995, ten years after the death of Buddingh' but only months after Hermans' death.\n\nThe earliest translation into English of a Hermans work was the novella \"The House of Refuge\" (translated by Estelle Debrot), which Steven Marcus included in his collection \"The World of Modern Fiction\" (New York, 1966). The original is called \"Het behouden huis\" and runs just under 80 pages.\n\nIn 2006 the novel \"Beyond Sleep\" (translated by Ina Rilke) was published. The story is about a geological expedition in the north of Norway, where the sun never goes under. The original is from 1966 and is called \"Nooit meer slapen\" and ranks as one of Hermans's two most important works. The other work, \"The Darkroom of Damocles\", also translated by Ina Rilke, was published in 2007. The novel is set during the Occupation in World War II, and the protagonist, a member of the Dutch resistance against the Germans, is unable to come up with evidence for his resistance activities when the war is over. The original is from 1958.\n\n\n\n"}
