{"id": "2015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015", "title": "Antarctic Circumpolar Current", "text": "Antarctic Circumpolar Current\n\nThe Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) is an ocean current that flows clockwise from west to east around Antarctica. An alternative name for the ACC is the West Wind Drift. The ACC is the dominant circulation feature of the Southern Ocean and has a mean transport estimated at 100-150 Sverdrups (Sv, million m³/s), or possibly even higher, making it the largest ocean current. The current is circumpolar due to the lack of any landmass connecting with Antarctica and this keeps warm ocean waters away from Antarctica, enabling that continent to maintain its huge ice sheet.\n\nAssociated with the Circumpolar Current is the Antarctic Convergence, where the cold Antarctic waters meet the warmer waters of the subantarctic, creating a zone of upwelling nutrients. These nurture high levels of phytoplankton with associated copepods and krill, and resultant foodchains supporting fish, whales, seals, penguins, albatrosses, and a wealth of other species.\n\nThe ACC has been known to sailors for centuries; it greatly speeds up any travel from west to east, but makes sailing extremely difficult from east to west; although this is mostly due to the prevailing westerly winds. The circumstances preceding the mutiny on the \"Bounty\" and Jack London's story \"Make Westing\" poignantly illustrated the difficulty it caused for mariners seeking to round Cape Horn on the clipper ship route between New York and California. The clipper route, which is the fastest sailing route around the world, follows the ACC around three continental capes – Cape Agulhas (Africa), South East Cape (Australia), and Cape Horn (South America).\n\nThe current creates the Ross and Weddell gyres.\n\nThe ACC connects the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, and serves as a principal pathway of exchange among them. The current is strongly constrained by landform and bathymetric features. To trace it starting arbitrarily at South America, it flows through the Drake Passage between South America and the Antarctic Peninsula and then is split by the Scotia Arc to the east, with a shallow warm branch flowing to the north in the Falkland Current and a deeper branch passing through the Arc more to the east before also turning to the north. Passing through the Indian Ocean, the current first retroflects the Agulhas Current to form the Agulhas Return Current before it is split by the Kerguelen Plateau, and then moving northward again. Deflection is also seen as it passes over the mid-ocean ridge in the Southeast Pacific.\n\nThe current is accompanied by three fronts: the Subantarctic front (SAF), the Polar front (PF), and the Southern ACC front (SACC). Furthermore, the waters of the Southern Ocean are separated from the warmer and saltier subtropical waters by the subtropical front (STF).\n\nThe northern boundary of the ACC is defined by the northern edge of the SAF, this being the most northerly water to pass through Drake Passage and therefore be circumpolar. Much of the ACC transport is carried in this front, which is defined as the latitude at which a subsurface salinity minimum or a thick layer of unstratified Subantarctic mode water first appears, allowed by temperature dominating density stratification. Still further south lies the PF, which is marked by a transition to very cold, relatively fresh, Antarctic Surface Water at the surface. Here a temperature minimum is allowed by salinity dominating density stratification, due to the lower temperatures. Farther south still is the SACC, which is determined as the southernmost extent of Circumpolar Deep Water (temperature of about 2 °C at 400 m). This water mass flows along the shelfbreak of the western Antarctic Peninsula and thus marks the most southerly water flowing through Drake Passage and therefore circumpolar. The bulk of the transport is carried in the middle two fronts.\n\nThe total transport of the ACC at Drake Passage is estimated to be around 135 Sv, or about 135 times the transport of all the world's rivers combined. There is a relatively small addition of flow in the Indian Ocean, with the transport south of Tasmania reaching around 147 Sv, at which point the current is probably the largest on the planet.\n\nThe circumpolar current is driven by the strong westerly winds in the latitudes of the Southern Ocean.\n\nIn latitudes where there are continents, winds blowing on light surface water can simply pile up light water against these continents. But in the Southern Ocean, the momentum imparted to the surface waters cannot be offset in this way. There are different theories on how the Circumpolar Current balances the momentum imparted by the winds. The increasing eastward momentum imparted by the winds causes water parcels to drift outward from the axis of the Earth's rotation (in other words, northward) as a result of the Coriolis force. This northward Ekman transport is balanced by a southward, pressure-driven flow below the depths of the major ridge systems. Some theories connect these flows directly, implying that there is significant upwelling of dense deep waters within the Southern Ocean, transformation of these waters into light surface waters, and a transformation of waters in the opposite direction to the north. Such theories link the magnitude of the Circumpolar Current with the global thermohaline circulation, particularly the properties of the North Atlantic.\n\nAlternatively, ocean eddies, the oceanic equivalent of atmospheric storms, or the large-scale meanders of the Circumpolar Current may directly transport momentum downward in the water column. This is because such flows can produce a net southward flow in the troughs and a net northward flow over the ridges without requiring any transformation of density. In practice both the thermohaline and the eddy/meander mechanisms are likely to be important.\n\nThe current flows at a rate of about over the Macquarie Ridge south of New Zealand. The ACC varies with time. Evidence of this is the Antarctic Circumpolar Wave, a periodic oscillation that affects the climate of much of the southern hemisphere. There is also the Antarctic oscillation, which involves changes in the location and strength of Antarctic winds. Trends in the Antarctic Oscillation have been hypothesized to account for an increase in the transport of the Circumpolar Current over the past two decades.\n\nPublished estimates of the onset of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current vary, but it is commonly considered to have started at the Eocene/Oligocene boundary. The isolation of Antarctica and formation of the ACC occurred with the openings of the Tasmanian Seaway and the Drake Passage. The Tasmanian Seaway separates East Antarctica and Australia, and is reported to have opened to water circulation 33.5 Ma. The timing of the opening of the Drake Passage, between South America and the Antarctic Peninsula, is more disputed; tectonic and sediment evidence show that it could have been open as early as pre 34 Ma, estimates of the opening of the Drake passage are between 20 and 40 Ma. The isolation of Antarctica by the current is credited by many researchers with causing the glaciation of Antarctica and global cooling in the Eocene epoch. Oceanic models have shown that the opening of these two passages limited polar heat convergence and caused a cooling of sea surface temperatures by several degrees; other models have shown that CO levels also played a significant role in the glaciation of Antarctica.\n\nAntarctic sea ice cycles seasonally, in February–March the amount of sea ice is lowest, and in August–September the sea ice is at its greatest extent. Ice levels have been monitored by satellite since 1973. Upwelling of deep water under the sea ice brings substantial amounts of nutrients. As the ice melts, the melt water provides stability and the critical depth is well below the mixing depth, which allows for a positive net primary production. As the sea ice recedes epontic algae dominate the first phase of the bloom, and a strong bloom dominate by diatoms follows the ice melt south.\n\nAnother phytoplankton bloom occurs more to the north near the antarctic convergence, here nutrients are present from thermohaline circulation. Phytoplankton blooms are dominated by diatoms and grazed by copepods in the open ocean, and by krill closer to the continent. Diatom production continues through the summer, and populations of krill are sustained, bringing large numbers of cetaceans, cephalopods, seals, birds, and fish to the area.\n\nPhytoplankton blooms are believed to be limited by irradiance in the austral (southern hemisphere) spring, and by biologically available iron in the summer. Much of the biology in the area occurs along the major fronts of the current, the Subtropical, Subantarctic, and the Antarctic Polar fronts, these are areas associated with well defined temperature changes. Size and distribution of phytoplankton are also related to fronts. Microphytoplankton (>20μm) are found at fronts and at sea ice boundaries, while nanophytoplankton (<20μm) are found between fronts.\n\nStudies of phytoplankton stocks in the southern sea have shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Current is dominated by diatoms, while the Weddell Sea has abundant coccolithophorids and silicoflagellates. Surveys of the SW Indian Ocean have shown phytoplankton group variation based on their location relative to the Polar Front, with diatoms dominating South of the front, and dinoflagellates and flagellates in higher populations North of the front.\n\nSome research has been conducted on Antarctic phytoplankton as a carbon sink. Areas of open water left from ice melt are good areas for phytoplankton blooms. The phytoplankton takes carbon from the atmosphere during photosynthesis. As the blooms die and sink, the carbon can be stored in sediments for thousands of years. This natural carbon sink is estimated to remove 3.5 million tonnes from the ocean each year. 3.5 million tonnes of carbon taken from the ocean and atmosphere is equivalent to 12.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.\n\nAn expedition in May 2008 by 19 scientists studied the geology and biology of eight Macquarie Ridge sea mounts, as well as the Antarctic Circumpolar Current to investigate the effects of climate change of the Southern Ocean. The circumpolar current merges the waters of the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans and carries up to 150 times the volume of water flowing in all of the world's rivers. The study found that any damage on the cold-water corals nourished by the current will have a long-lasting effect. After studying the circumpolar current it is clear that it strongly influences regional and global climate as well as underwater biodiversity.\n\nDr. Adrian Glover of the Natural History Museum, London says that the current helps preserve wooden shipwrecks by preventing wood-boring \"ship worms\" from reaching targets such as Ernest Shackleton's ship, the \"Endurance\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27947077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27947077", "title": "Block paving", "text": "Block paving\n\nBlock paving also known as brick paving is a commonly used decorative method of creating a pavement or hardstanding. The main benefit of bricks over other materials is that individual bricks can later be lifted up and replaced. This allows for remedial work to be carried out under the surface of the paving without leaving a lasting mark once the paving bricks have been replaced. Typical areas of use would be for driveways, pavement, patios, town centres, precincts and more commonly in road surfacing. Bricks are typically made of concrete or clay, though other composite materials are also used. Each has its own means of construction. The biggest difference is the way they set hard ready for use. A clay brick has to be fired in a kiln to bake the brick hard. A concrete brick has to be allowed to set. The concrete paving bricks are a porous form of brick formed by mixing small stone hardcore, dyes, cement and sand and other materials in various amounts. Many block paving manufacturing methods are now allowing the use of recycled materials in the construction of the paving bricks such as crushed glass and crushed old building rubble.\n\nThere are many different laying patterns that can be achieved using block paving. The most common of these is the herringbone pattern. This pattern is the strongest of the block paving bonds as it offers the most interlock, therefore making it a good choice for driveways and road surfacing. A herringbone pattern can be created by setting the blocks at either 45 degrees or 90 degrees to the perpendicular. Other popular types of pattern include stretcher bond and basketweave; with the latter being better suited to paved areas that will only receive light foot traffic, due to its weaker bond.\n\nPavers come in a number of styles, shapes and tones. Pavers manufactured from concrete go well with flag, brick and concrete walkways or patios. If you reside in climates wherever winter temperatures dip below zero, concrete pavers are an honest selection. They are ready to stoppage well in extreme temperatures. Opt for pavers in shades like ochre, pink, bisque, white or sand. Pavers are available in hole, x-shape, y-shape, pentagon, polygon and fan styles.\n\n"}
{"id": "17056205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17056205", "title": "Bosque Seco del Patía Fauna and Flora Sanctuary", "text": "Bosque Seco del Patía Fauna and Flora Sanctuary\n\nBosque Seco del Patía Fauna and Flora Sanctuary, or Patia Dry Forest, is a wildlife sanctuary in Colombia. It is located on the border between the Nariño Department and the Cauca Department.\n"}
{"id": "28979945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28979945", "title": "Broadband mapping in the United States", "text": "Broadband mapping in the United States\n\nBroadband mapping in the United States are efforts to describe geographically how Internet access service from telephone and cable TV companies (commonly called \"broadband\") is available in terms of available speed and price. Mapping has been done on the national as well as the state level. The efforts are seen as preliminary steps towards broadband universal service.\n\nInternet access and bit rates (often called \"speeds\") vary considerably across the US. Generally, rural Internet users have fewer options and slower service. American consumers often spend more money for slower service than in other countries.\n\nFormer Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and California Public Utilities Commission commissioner Rachelle Chong floated the idea of broadband mapping while working for the Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger Administration in California in 2006. The California Broadband Task Force had performed the first voluntary broadband mapping exercise in that state in 2006-2007, having learned about it when Commissioner Chong visited the ConnectKentucky broadband project in 2005. The broadband maps were then used by the CPUC to determine both \"unserved areas\" (defined as an area that is not served by any form of facilities-based broadband, or where Internet connectivity is available only through dial-up service or satellite) and \"underserved\" areas (defined as an area in which broadband is available but no facilities-based provider offers service at speeds of at least 3 megabytes per second (MB/s) download and 1 Mbit/s upload). A $100 million program called the California Advanced Services Fund (CASF) was established on December 20, 2007, under the leadership of Assigned Commissioner Chong at the CPUC to bring an \"onramp to the Internet\" to unserved areas and underserved areas of the state, with unserved areas having first priority using filing windows. In 2008, State Senator Alex Padilla (D-Pacoima)codified the CASF program with Senate Bill (SB) 1193, signed by Governor Schwarzenegger on September 29, 2008, to ensure it had the legislative authority it needed to operate. On September 25, 2010, Governor Schwarzenegger signed SB1040 which added CASF funds of $125 million, of which $100 million went to broadband infrastructure funding, and $25 million to broadband adoption programs.\n\nIn 2008, the FCC approved a broadband mapping plan which would examine availability by speed and \"provide a more granular look at where broadband is available,\" according to a report in the \"Washington Post\". \nThe Broadband Data Improvement Act was introduced by Senator Daniel Inouye in 2007 and became law on October 10, 2008.\nThe act's section 106 created a legal framework for the United States Department of Commerce's State Broadband Data and Development Grant Program, but did not fund it.\n\nThe Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) was funded as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (known as the \"stimulus package\") under the Obama administration. Funds were allocated by the Commerce department and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) in February 2009.\n\nIn April 2, 2009, California's Commissioner Chong testified before the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, about the California broadband program, and recommended that every state be required to perform broadband mapping in order to have an accurate understanding of its unserved and underserved areas, and not waste American Recovery and Reinvestment Act federal funding for broadband expansion. She further recommended that the broadband data be collected at the granular street address level annually in order to get the most accurate data. She testified that broadband mapping funds should be fairly allocated among the states, with an eye towards population, density, area, broadband penetration, and state's commitment to broadband.\n\nThe NTIA was to create and release a National Broadband Inventory Map by February 17, 2011.\n\nInitially an estimated 350 million dollars would be spent on the map. The $350 million figure was reduced over time to about $293 million. The mapping project was part of a much larger project perhaps involving seven billion dollars for a National Broadband Plan that had, among other goals, bringing high speed Internet service to rural areas.\nState governments such as New Hampshire, North Carolina, and Minnesota attempted broadband maps, as did nations in Africa.\n\nIn Massachusetts, an ARRA grant was supplemented with state funds in 2010 for the Massachusetts Broadband Institute. In service of the MassBroadband 123 project to provide universal access statewide, the Institute created the Massachusetts Broadband Map, as of 2011 updated every six months.\n\nAs with other thematic maps, there is no standard for mapping information. Rather, different studies have been done using different geographic and data rate parameters. Geometric units such as census tracts as well as zip codes have been used. \nAlthough the term broadband once had a technical meaning, it is used in marketing and policy to generally apply to relatively high data rate (and thus more expensive) Internet access, while technology changes over time.\nOne 2007 estimate used five speed ranges, with the lowest being from 200 kbit/s to 768 kbit/s, and the highest was more than 6 Mbit/s.\n\nPolitics influences the allocation of funds. The National Telecommunications and Information Administration in 2009 said it would reassess the program to ensure the funds are used in a \"fiscally prudent\" manner, after private firms claimed they could make the map for much less. In addition, there is an effort by the FCC to do a separate mapping effort unconnected to the congressional effort.\n\nInternet providers, including telephone and cable firms, according to a report in \"The New York Times\", are reluctant to disclose to government whether it offers service to some regions, how much it costs, and other parameters of availability. Lobbying firms and nonprofits geared up to battle for funding since there could be lucrative government contracts in the future.\n\n\"Connected Nation\" is a non-profit group which was involved in an effort to get the state of Kentucky mapped regarding its available Internet service. It is funded by AT&T, Verizon, and other telecom firms. Art Brodsky, Communications Director at \"Public Knowledge\", a public interest organization which focuses on telecoms, wrote several articles in the \"Huffington Post\" criticizing the efforts of Connected Nation which, in his view, represented the interests of the telephone and cable industries and not the interests of consumers or other Internet-using publics. According to Brodsky, the nonprofit has board members who work for leading telecom and cable firms, and the nonprofit is heading efforts to keep the broadband map information \"confidential\" by deeming it \"proprietary\". Brodsky used the term \"broadband bullies\" to describe telephone and cable efforts to impede the mapping project.\n\nBehavioral economics expert Sara Wedeman—who has studied broadband mapping methodologies—criticized the politics behind the mapping efforts and suggested that efforts by cable and telephone companies could undermine choices for consumers. Wedeman lauded the methodologies by states such as North Carolina and Massachusetts and noted that when studies were done properly, the reports found that broadband speed and availability were below those reported by similar efforts by affiliates of \"Connected Nations\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "697731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697731", "title": "Columbia Plateau", "text": "Columbia Plateau\n\nThe Columbia Plateau or Columbia Basin is a geographic region located almost entirely in Eastern Washington and north-central Oregon—with the eastern edge spilling over into Northern Idaho The area is characterized by its mostly semi-arid climate (\"Bsk\" under the Köppen classification)—with some areas falling under the desert (\"BWk\") and mediterranean (\"Csa\" and \"Csb\") classifications—resulting in a shrub-steppe environment.\n\nDuring late Miocene and early Pliocene times, a flood basalt engulfed about of the Pacific Northwest, forming a large igneous province. Over a period of perhaps 10 to 15 million years, lava flow after lava flow poured out, ultimately accumulating to a thickness of more than 6,000 feet (1.8 km). As the molten rock came to the surface, the Earth's crust gradually sank into the space left by the rising lava. The Columbia River Basalt Group consists of seven formations: The Steens Basalt, Imnaha Basalt, Grande Ronde Basalt, Picture Gorge Basalt, Prineville Basalt, Wanapum Basalt, and Saddle Mountains Basalt. Many of these formations are subdivided into formal and informal members and flows.\n\nThe subsidence of the crust produced the large plateau—a large, slightly depressed lava plain sometimes also known as the Columbia Basin. The ancient Columbia River was forced into its present course by the northwesterly advancing lava. The lava, as it flowed over the area, first filled the stream valleys, forming dams that in turn caused impoundments or lakes. Entities found in these lake beds include fossil leaf impressions, petrified wood, fossil insects, and bones of vertebrate animals.\n\nEvidence suggests that some concentrated heat source is melting rock beneath the Columbia Plateau Province at the base of the lithosphere (the layer of crust and upper mantle that forms Earth's moving tectonic plates). In an effort to figure out why this area, far from a plate boundary, had such an enormous outpouring of lava, scientists established hardening dates for many of the individual lava flows. They found that the youngest volcanic rocks were clustered near the Yellowstone Plateau, and that the farther west they went, the older the lavas.\n\nAlthough scientists are still gathering evidence, a probable explanation is that a hot spot, an extremely hot plume of deep mantle material, is rising to the surface beneath the Columbia Plateau Province. Geologists know that beneath Hawaii and Iceland, a temperature instability develops (for reasons not yet well understood) at the boundary between the core and mantle. The concentrated heat triggers a plume hundreds of kilometers in diameter that ascends directly through to the surface of the Earth.\n\nThe track of this hot spot starts in the west and sweeps up to Yellowstone National Park. The steaming fumaroles and explosive geysers are ample evidence of a concentration of heat beneath the surface. The hotspot is stationary, but the North American plate is moving over it, creating a superb record of the rate and direction of plate motion.\n\nPart of the Columbia Plateau is associated with the Columbia Plateau ecoregion, part of the 'Nearctic temperate and subtropical grasslands, savannas, and shrublands' ecoregion of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome.\n\nWashington cities in the Columbia Plateau include:\n\nOregon cities in the Columbia Plateau include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4996358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4996358", "title": "Côa River", "text": "Côa River\n\nThe Côa River is a tributary of the Douro River, in central and northeastern Portugal. It is one of the few Portuguese rivers that flows south to north. It flows through the municipalities of Sabugal Municipality, Almeida Municipality, Pinhel Municipality, Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo Municipality and Vila Nova de Foz Côa Municipality, all located in the Guarda District.\n\nThousands of ancient carvings in stone were discovered in the Côa Valley in the 1980s and 1990s. These are of particular interest due to the high concentration of Paleolithic art, and because these carvings are found outside of caves, on rocks in plain sight: Jean Clottes, a prominent French prehistorian, had confirmed that \"is the biggest open air site of paleolithic art in Europe, if not in the world\".\n\nThe drawings attracted worldwide attention when plans to build a hydroelectric dam across the Côa Valley threatened to submerge them. Although hydroelectric development was already well underway, outcry from locals, the scientific community and the media led to dam construction being halted in 1995 after a change in the national government following elections. A significant proportion of the drawings in the Canada do Inferno area were already underwater by that time. The Côa Valley Archaeological Park, opened in 1996 , was declared a protected UNESCO world heritage site in 1998.\n\nThe Côa river was also the site of the Côa Battle during the Peninsular War. There are several castles along Terras de Riba-Côa, such as Sabugal and Pinhel.\n"}
{"id": "29401328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29401328", "title": "Daniel Dzurek", "text": "Daniel Dzurek\n\nDaniel J. Dzurek is an American academic geographer, author and government official. He was formerly the Chief of the Spatial, Environmental and Boundary Analysis Division of the United States Department of State.\n\nDzurek's published writings encompass 12 works in 15 publications in 1 language and 69 library holdings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55789228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55789228", "title": "Denudation chronology", "text": "Denudation chronology\n\nDenudation chronology is the study of the long-term evolution of topography seen as sequence. Denudation chronology revolves around episodes of landscape-wide erosion, bettern known as denudation. The cycle of erosion model is a common approach used to establish denudation chronologies.\n"}
{"id": "42737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42737", "title": "Dutch East India Company", "text": "Dutch East India Company\n\nThe Dutch East India Company (; VOC) was an early megacorporation, founded by a government-directed amalgamation of several rival Dutch trading companies (the so-called \"voorcompagnieën\" or \"pre-companies\") in the early 17th century. It was originally established, on 20 March 1602, as a chartered company to trade with India and Indianized Southeast Asian countries when the Dutch government granted it a 21-year monopoly on the Dutch spice trade. The VOC was an early multinational/transnational corporation in its modern sense. The Company has been often labelled a trading company (i.e. a company of merchants who buy and sell goods produced by other people) or sometimes a shipping company. However, the VOC was in fact a proto-conglomerate company, diversifying into multiple commercial and industrial activities such as international trade (especially intra-Asian trade), shipbuilding, both production and trade of East Indian spices, Formosan sugarcane, and South African wine. The Company was a transcontinental employer and an early pioneer of outward foreign direct investment. The Company's investment projects helped raise the commercial and industrial potential of many underdeveloped or undeveloped regions of the world in the early modern period. In the early 1600s, by widely issuing bonds and shares of stock to the general public, the VOC became the world's first formally listed public company. In other words, it was the first corporation to be ever actually listed on an official stock exchange. The VOC was influential in the rise of corporate-led globalization in the early modern period. \nWith its pioneering institutional innovations and powerful roles in global business history, the Company is often considered by many to be the forerunner of modern corporations. In many respects, modern-day corporations are all the 'direct descendants' of the VOC model. It was the VOC's 17th-century institutional innovations and business practices that laid the foundations for the rise of giant global corporations in subsequent centuries — as a highly significant and formidable socio-politico-economic force of the modern-day world – to become the dominant factor in almost all economic systems today, whether for better or worse. The VOC also served as the direct model for the organizational reconstruction of the English/British East India Company (EIC) in 1657. The Company, for nearly 200 years of its existence (1602–1800), had effectively transformed itself from a corporate entity into a state or an empire in its own right. One of the most influential and best expertly researched business enterprises in history, the VOC's world has been the subject of a vast amount of literature that includes both fiction and nonfiction works.\n\nDubbed the 'VOC Republic' or 'VOC Empire' by some, the Company was historically an exemplary (transcontinental) company-state rather than a pure for-profit corporation. Originally a government-backed military-commercial enterprise, the VOC was the wartime brainchild of leading Dutch republican statesman Johan van Oldenbarnevelt and the States-General. From its inception in 1602, the Company was not only a commercial enterprise but also effectively an instrument of war in the young Dutch Republic's revolutionary global war against the powerful Spanish Empire and Iberian Union (1579–1648). In 1619, the Company forcibly established a central position in the Indonesian city of Jayakarta, changing the name to Batavia (modern-day Jakarta). Over the next two centuries the Company acquired additional ports as trading bases and safeguarded their interests by taking over surrounding territory. To guarantee its supply it established positions in many countries and became an early pioneer of outward foreign direct investment. In its foreign colonies the VOC possessed quasi-governmental powers, including the ability to wage war, imprison and execute convicts, negotiate treaties, strike its own coins, and establish colonies. With increasing importance of foreign posts, the company is often considered the world's first true transnational corporation.\nAlong with the Dutch West India Company (WIC/GWIC), the VOC became seen as the international arm of the Dutch Republic and the symbolic power of the Dutch Empire. To further its trade routes, the VOC-funded exploratory voyages such as those led by Willem Janszoon (\"Duyfken\"), Henry Hudson (\"Halve Maen\") and Abel Tasman who revealed largely unknown landmasses to the western world. In the Golden Age of Netherlandish cartography (c. 1570s–1670s), VOC navigators and cartographers helped shape geographical knowledge of the world as we know it today.\n\nSocio-economic changes in Europe, the shift in power balance, and less successful financial management resulted in a slow decline of the VOC between 1720 and 1799. After the financially disastrous Fourth Anglo-Dutch War (1780–1784), the company was first nationalised in 1796, and finally dissolved in 1799. All assets were taken over by the government with VOC territories becoming Dutch government colonies. \n\nIn spite of the VOC's historic roles and contributions, the Company has long been heavily criticized for its monopoly policy, exploitation, colonialism, uses of violence, and slavery.\n\nIn Dutch the name of the company is \"Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie\" or \"Verenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie\". abbreviated to \"VOC\".\nThe company's monogram logo was possibly in fact the first globally recognized corporate logo. The logo of the VOC consisted of a large capital 'V' with an O on the left and a C on the right leg. It appeared on various corporate items, such as cannons and coins. The first letter of the hometown of the chamber conducting the operation was placed on top (see figure for example of the Amsterdam Chamber logo). The monogram, versatility, flexibility, clarity, simplicity, symmetry, timelessness, and symbolism are considered notable characteristics of the VOC's professionally designed logo, those ensured its success at a time when the concept of the corporate identity was virtually unknown. An Australian vintner has used the VOC logo since the late 20th century, having re-registered the company's name for the purpose.\nThe flag of the company was red, white, and blue (see Dutch flag), with the company logo embroidered on it.\n\nAround the world and especially in English-speaking countries, the VOC is widely known as the \"Dutch East India Company\". The name ‘Dutch East India Company’ is used to make a distinction with the [British] East India Company (EIC) and other East Indian companies (such as the Danish East India Company, French East India Company, Portuguese East India Company, and the Swedish East India Company). The company's alternative names that have been used include the 'Dutch East Indies Company', 'United East India Company', 'United East Indian Company', 'United East Indies Company', 'Jan Company', or 'Jan Compagnie'.\n\nBefore the Dutch Revolt, Antwerp had played an important role as a distribution centre in northern Europe. After 1591, however, the Portuguese used an international syndicate of the German Fuggers and Welsers, and Spanish and Italian firms, that used Hamburg as the northern staple port to distribute their goods, thereby cutting Dutch merchants out of the trade. At the same time, the Portuguese trade system was unable to increase supply to satisfy growing demand, in particular the demand for pepper. Demand for spices was relatively inelastic, and therefore each lag in the supply of pepper caused a sharp rise in pepper prices.\n\nIn 1580 the Portuguese crown was united in a personal union with the Spanish crown, with which the Dutch Republic was at war. The Portuguese Empire therefore became an appropriate target for Dutch military incursions. These factors motivated Dutch merchants to enter the intercontinental spice trade themselves. Further, a number of Dutchmen like Jan Huyghen van Linschoten and Cornelis de Houtman obtained first hand knowledge of the \"secret\" Portuguese trade routes and practices, thereby providing opportunity.\n\nThe stage was thus set for the four-ship exploratory expedition by Frederick de Houtman in 1595 to Banten, the main pepper port of West Java, where they clashed with both the Portuguese and indigenous Indonesians. Houtman's expedition then sailed east along the north coast of Java, losing twelve crew to a Javanese attack at Sidayu and killing a local ruler in Madura. Half the crew were lost before the expedition made it back to the Netherlands the following year, but with enough spices to make a considerable profit.\n\nIn 1598, an increasing number of fleets were sent out by competing merchant groups from around the Netherlands. Some fleets were lost, but most were successful, with some voyages producing high profits. In March 1599, a fleet of eight ships under Jacob van Neck was the first Dutch fleet to reach the 'Spice Islands' of Maluku, the source of pepper, cutting out the Javanese middlemen. The ships returned to Europe in 1599 and 1600 and the expedition made a 400 percent profit.\n\nIn 1600, the Dutch joined forces with the Muslim Hituese on Ambon Island in an anti-Portuguese alliance, in return for which the Dutch were given the sole right to purchase spices from Hitu. Dutch control of Ambon was achieved when the Portuguese surrendered their fort in Ambon to the Dutch-Hituese alliance. In 1613, the Dutch expelled the Portuguese from their Solor fort, but a subsequent Portuguese attack led to a second change of hands; following this second reoccupation, the Dutch once again captured Solor, in 1636.\n\nEast of Solor, on the island of Timor, Dutch advances were halted by an autonomous and powerful group of Portuguese Eurasians called the Topasses. They remained in control of the Sandalwood trade and their resistance lasted throughout the 17th and 18th centuries, causing Portuguese Timor to remain under the Portuguese sphere of control.\n\nAt the time, it was customary for a company to be set up only for the duration of a single voyage and to be liquidated upon the return of the fleet. Investment in these expeditions was a very high-risk venture, not only because of the usual dangers of piracy, disease and shipwreck, but also because the interplay of inelastic demand and relatively elastic supply of spices could make prices tumble at just the wrong moment, thereby ruining prospects of profitability. To manage such risk the forming of a cartel to control supply would seem logical. The English had been the first to adopt this approach, by bundling their resources into a monopoly enterprise, the English East India Company in 1600, thereby threatening their Dutch competitors with ruin.\n\nIn 1602, the Dutch government followed suit, sponsoring the creation of a single \"United East Indies Company\" that was also granted monopoly over the Asian trade. For a time in the seventeenth century, they were able to monopolize the trade in nutmeg, mace, and cloves and to sell these spices in Europe and India at fourteen to seventeen times the price they paid in Indonesia; while Dutch profits soared, the local economy of the Spice Islands was destroyed. With a capital of 6,440,200 guilders, the charter of the new company empowered it to build forts, maintain armies, and conclude treaties with Asian rulers. It provided for a venture that would continue for 21 years, with a financial accounting only at the end of each decade.\n\nIn February 1603, the Company seized the \"Santa Catarina\", a 1500-ton Portuguese merchant carrack, off the coast of Singapore. She was such a rich prize that her sale proceeds increased the capital of the VOC by more than 50%.\n\nAlso in 1603 the first permanent Dutch trading post in Indonesia was established in Banten, West Java, and in 1611 another was established at Jayakarta (later \"Batavia\" and then \"Jakarta\"). In 1610, the VOC established the post of Governor General to more firmly control their affairs in Asia. To advise and control the risk of despotic Governors General, a Council of the Indies (\"Raad van Indië\") was created. The Governor General effectively became the main administrator of the VOC's activities in Asia, although the \"Heeren XVII\", a body of 17 shareholders representing different chambers, continued to officially have overall control.\n\nVOC headquarters were located in Ambon during the tenures of the first three Governors General (1610–1619), but it was not a satisfactory location. Although it was at the centre of the spice production areas, it was far from the Asian trade routes and other VOC areas of activity ranging from Africa to India to Japan. A location in the west of the archipelago was thus sought. The Straits of Malacca were strategic but had become dangerous following the Portuguese conquest, and the first permanent VOC settlement in Banten was controlled by a powerful local ruler and subject to stiff competition from Chinese and English traders.\n\nIn 1604, a second English East India Company voyage commanded by Sir Henry Middleton reached the islands of Ternate, Tidore, Ambon and Banda. In Banda, they encountered severe VOC hostility, sparking Anglo-Dutch competition for access to spices. From 1611 to 1617, the English established trading posts at Sukadana (southwest Kalimantan), Makassar, Jayakarta and Jepara in Java, and Aceh, Pariaman and Jambi in Sumatra, which threatened Dutch ambitions for a monopoly on East Indies trade.\n\nDiplomatic agreements in Europe in 1620 ushered in a period of co-operation between the Dutch and the English over the spice trade. This ended with a notorious but disputed incident known as the 'Amboyna massacre', where ten Englishmen were arrested, tried and beheaded for conspiracy against the Dutch government. Although this caused outrage in Europe and a diplomatic crisis, the English quietly withdrew from most of their Indonesian activities (except trading in Banten) and focused on other Asian interests.\n\nIn 1619, Jan Pieterszoon Coen was appointed Governor-General of the VOC. He saw the possibility of the VOC becoming an Asian power, both political and economic. On 30 May 1619, Coen, backed by a force of nineteen ships, stormed Jayakarta, driving out the Banten forces; and from the ashes established Batavia as the VOC headquarters. In the 1620s almost the entire native population of the Banda Islands was driven away, starved to death, or killed in an attempt to replace them with Dutch plantations. These plantations were used to grow cloves and nutmeg for export. Coen hoped to settle large numbers of Dutch colonists in the East Indies, but implementation of this policy never materialised, mainly because very few Dutch were willing to emigrate to Asia.\n\nAnother of Coen's ventures was more successful. A major problem in the European trade with Asia at the time was that the Europeans could offer few goods that Asian consumers wanted, except silver and gold. European traders therefore had to pay for spices with the precious metals, which were in short supply in Europe, except for Spain and Portugal. The Dutch and English had to obtain it by creating a trade surplus with other European countries. Coen discovered the obvious solution for the problem: to start an intra-Asiatic trade system, whose profits could be used to finance the spice trade with Europe. In the long run this obviated the need for exports of precious metals from Europe, though at first it required the formation of a large trading-capital fund in the Indies. The VOC reinvested a large share of its profits to this end in the period up to 1630.\n\nThe VOC traded throughout Asia. Ships coming into Batavia from the Netherlands carried supplies for VOC settlements in Asia. Silver and copper from Japan were used to trade with India and China for silk, cotton, porcelain, and textiles. These products were either traded within Asia for the coveted spices or brought back to Europe. The VOC was also instrumental in introducing European ideas and technology to Asia. The Company supported Christian missionaries and traded modern technology with China and Japan. A more peaceful VOC trade post on Dejima, an artificial island off the coast of Nagasaki, was for more than two hundred years the only place where Europeans were permitted to trade with Japan. When the VOC tried to use military force to make Ming dynasty China open up to Dutch trade, the Chinese defeated the Dutch in a war over the Penghu islands from 1623 to 1624, forcing the VOC to abandon Penghu for Taiwan. The Chinese defeated the VOC again at the Battle of Liaoluo Bay in 1633.\n\nThe Vietnamese Nguyen Lords defeated the VOC in a 1643 battle during the Trịnh–Nguyễn War, blowing up a Dutch ship. The Cambodians defeated the VOC in the Cambodian–Dutch War from 1643 to 1644 on the Mekong River.\n\nIn 1640, the VOC obtained the port of Galle, Ceylon, from the Portuguese and broke the latter's monopoly of the cinnamon trade. In 1658, Gerard Pietersz. Hulft laid siege to Colombo, which was captured with the help of King Rajasinghe II of Kandy. By 1659, the Portuguese had been expelled from the coastal regions, which were then occupied by the VOC, securing for it the monopoly over cinnamon.\nTo prevent the Portuguese or the English from ever recapturing Sri Lanka, the VOC went on to conquer the entire Malabar Coast from the Portuguese, almost entirely driving them from the west coast of India. When news of a peace agreement between Portugal and the Netherlands reached Asia in 1663, Goa was the only remaining Portuguese city on the west coast.\n\nIn 1652, Jan van Riebeeck established an outpost at the Cape of Good Hope (the southwestern tip of Africa, now Cape Town, South Africa) to re-supply VOC ships on their journey to East Asia. This post later became a full-fledged colony, the Cape Colony, when more Dutch and other Europeans started to settle there.\n\nThrough the seventeenth century VOC trading posts were also established in Persia, Bengal, Malacca, Siam, Formosa (now Taiwan), as well as the Malabar and Coromandel coasts in India. Direct access to mainland China came in 1729 when a factory was established in Canton. In 1662, however, Koxinga expelled the Dutch from Taiwan (\"see\" History of Taiwan).\n\nIn 1663, the VOC signed the \"Painan Treaty\" with several local lords in the Painan area that were revolting against the Aceh Sultanate. The treaty allowed the VOC to build a trading post in the area and eventually to monopolise the trade there, especially the gold trade.\n\nBy 1669, the VOC was the richest private company the world had ever seen, with over 150 merchant ships, 40 warships, 50,000 employees, a private army of 10,000 soldiers, and a dividend payment of 40% on the original investment.\n\nMany of the VOC employees inter-mixed with the indigenous peoples and expanded the population of Indos in pre-colonial history\n\nAround 1670, two events caused the growth of VOC trade to stall. In the first place, the highly profitable trade with Japan started to decline. The loss of the outpost on Formosa to Koxinga in the 1662 Siege of Fort Zeelandia and related internal turmoil in China (where the Ming dynasty was being replaced with the Qing dynasty) brought an end to the silk trade after 1666. Though the VOC substituted Bengali for Chinese silk other forces affected the supply of Japanese silver and gold. The shogunate enacted a number of measures to limit the export of these precious metals, in the process limiting VOC opportunities for trade, and severely worsening the terms of trade. Therefore, Japan ceased to function as the lynchpin of the intra-Asiatic trade of the VOC by 1685.\n\nEven more importantly, the Third Anglo-Dutch War temporarily interrupted VOC trade with Europe. This caused a spike in the price of pepper, which enticed the English East India Company (EIC) to enter this market aggressively in the years after 1672. Previously, one of the tenets of the VOC pricing policy was to slightly over-supply the pepper market, so as to depress prices below the level where interlopers were encouraged to enter the market (instead of striving for short-term profit maximisation). The wisdom of such a policy was illustrated when a fierce price war with the EIC ensued, as that company flooded the market with new supplies from India. In this struggle for market share, the VOC (which had much larger financial resources) could wait out the EIC. Indeed, by 1683, the latter came close to bankruptcy; its share price plummeted from 600 to 250; and its president Josiah Child was temporarily forced from office.\n\nHowever, the writing was on the wall. Other companies, like the French East India Company and the Danish East India Company also started to make inroads on the Dutch system. The VOC therefore closed the heretofore flourishing open pepper emporium of Bantam by a treaty of 1684 with the Sultan. Also, on the Coromandel Coast, it moved its chief stronghold from Pulicat to Negapatnam, so as to secure a monopoly on the pepper trade at the detriment of the French and the Danes. However, the importance of these traditional commodities in the Asian-European trade was diminishing rapidly at the time. The military outlays that the VOC needed to make to enhance its monopoly were not justified by the increased profits of this declining trade.\n\nNevertheless, this lesson was slow to sink in and at first the VOC made the strategic decision to improve its military position on the Malabar Coast (hoping thereby to curtail English influence in the area, and end the drain on its resources from the cost of the Malabar garrisons) by using force to compel the Zamorin of Calicut to submit to Dutch domination. In 1710, the Zamorin was made to sign a treaty with the VOC undertaking to trade exclusively with the VOC and expel other European traders. For a brief time, this appeared to improve the Company's prospects. However, in 1715, with EIC encouragement, the Zamorin renounced the treaty. Though a Dutch army managed to suppress this insurrection temporarily, the Zamorin continued to trade with the English and the French, which led to an appreciable upsurge in English and French traffic. The VOC decided in 1721 that it was no longer worth the trouble to try to dominate the Malabar pepper and spice trade. A strategic decision was taken to scale down the Dutch military presence and in effect yield the area to EIC influence.\nThe 1741 Battle of Colachel by warriors of Travancore under Raja Marthanda Varma defeated the Dutch. The Dutch commander Captain Eustachius De Lannoy was captured. Marthanda Varma agreed to spare the Dutch captain's life on condition that he joined his army and trained his soldiers on modern lines. This defeat in the Travancore-Dutch War is considered the earliest example of an organised Asian power overcoming European military technology and tactics; and it signalled the decline of Dutch power in India.\n\nThe attempt to continue as before as a low volume-high profit business enterprise with its core business in the spice trade had therefore failed. The Company had however already (reluctantly) followed the example of its European competitors in diversifying into other Asian commodities, like tea, coffee, cotton, textiles, and sugar. These commodities provided a lower profit margin and therefore required a larger sales volume to generate the same amount of revenue. This structural change in the commodity composition of the VOC's trade started in the early 1680s, after the temporary collapse of the EIC around 1683 offered an excellent opportunity to enter these markets. The actual cause for the change lies, however, in two structural features of this new era.\n\nIn the first place, there was a revolutionary change in the tastes affecting European demand for Asian textiles, coffee and tea, around the turn of the 18th century. Secondly, a new era of an abundant supply of capital at low interest rates suddenly opened around this time. The second factor enabled the Company easily to finance its expansion in the new areas of commerce. Between the 1680s and 1720s, the VOC was therefore able to equip and man an appreciable expansion of its fleet, and acquire a large amount of precious metals to finance the purchase of large amounts of Asian commodities, for shipment to Europe. The overall effect was approximately to double the size of the company.\n\nThe tonnage of the returning ships rose by 125 percent in this period. However, the Company's revenues from the sale of goods landed in Europe rose by only 78 percent. This reflects the basic change in the VOC's circumstances that had occurred: it now operated in new markets for goods with an elastic demand, in which it had to compete on an equal footing with other suppliers. This made for low profit margins. Unfortunately, the business information systems of the time made this difficult to discern for the managers of the company, which may partly explain the mistakes they made from hindsight. This lack of information might have been counteracted (as in earlier times in the VOC's history) by the business acumen of the directors. Unfortunately by this time these were almost exclusively recruited from the political \"regent\" class, which had long since lost its close relationship with merchant circles.\n\nLow profit margins in themselves do not explain the deterioration of revenues. To a large extent the costs of the operation of the VOC had a \"fixed\" character (military establishments; maintenance of the fleet and such). Profit levels might therefore have been maintained if the increase in the scale of trading operations that in fact took place had resulted in economies of scale. However, though larger ships transported the growing volume of goods, labour productivity did not go up sufficiently to realise these. In general the Company's overhead rose in step with the growth in trade volume; declining gross margins translated directly into a decline in profitability of the invested capital. The era of expansion was one of \"profitless growth\".\n\nSpecifically: \"[t]he long-term average annual profit in the VOC's 1630–70 'Golden Age' was 2.1 million guilders, of which just under half was distributed as dividends and the remainder reinvested. The long-term average annual profit in the 'Expansion Age' (1680–1730) was 2.0 million guilders, of which three-quarters was distributed as dividend and one-quarter reinvested. In the earlier period, profits averaged 18 percent of total revenues; in the latter period, 10 percent. The annual return of invested capital in the earlier period stood at approximately 6 percent; in the latter period, 3.4 percent.\"\n\nNevertheless, in the eyes of investors the VOC did not do too badly. The share price hovered consistently around the 400 mark from the mid-1680s (excepting a hiccup around the Glorious Revolution in 1688), and they reached an all-time high of around 642 in the 1720s. VOC shares then yielded a return of 3.5 percent, only slightly less than the yield on Dutch government bonds.\n\nAfter 1730, the fortunes of the VOC started to decline. Five major problems, not all of equal weight, explain its decline over the next fifty years to 1780:\n\nDespite these problems, the VOC in 1780 remained an enormous operation. Its capital in the Republic, consisting of ships and goods in inventory, totalled 28 million guilders; its capital in Asia, consisting of the liquid trading fund and goods en route to Europe, totalled 46 million guilders. Total capital, net of outstanding debt, stood at 62 million guilders. The prospects of the company at this time therefore were not hopeless, had one of the plans for reform been undertaken successfully. However, the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War intervened. British attacks in Europe and Asia reduced the VOC fleet by half; removed valuable cargo from its control; and devastated its remaining power in Asia. The direct losses of the VOC can be calculated at 43 million guilders. Loans to keep the company operating reduced its net assets to zero.\n\nFrom 1720 on, the market for sugar from Indonesia declined as the competition from cheap sugar from Brazil increased. European markets became saturated. Dozens of Chinese sugar traders went bankrupt, which led to massive unemployment, which in turn led to gangs of unemployed coolies. The Dutch government in Batavia did not adequately respond to these problems. In 1740, rumours of deportation of the gangs from the Batavia area led to widespread rioting. The Dutch military searched houses of Chinese in Batavia for weapons. When a house accidentally burnt down, military and impoverished citizens started slaughtering and pillaging the Chinese community. This massacre of the Chinese was deemed sufficiently serious for the board of the VOC to start an official investigation into the Government of the Dutch East Indies for the first time in its history.\n\nAfter the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, the VOC was a financial wreck. After vain attempts at reorganisation by the provincial States of Holland and Zeeland, it was nationalised by the new Batavian Republic on 1 March 1796. The VOC charter was renewed several times, but was allowed to expire on 31 December 1799. Most of the possessions of the former VOC were subsequently occupied by Great Britain during the Napoleonic wars, but after the new United Kingdom of the Netherlands was created by the Congress of Vienna, some of these were restored to this successor state of the Dutch Republic by the Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1814.\n\nThe VOC is generally considered to be the world's first truly transnational corporation and it was also the first multinational enterprise to issue shares of stock to the public. Some historians such as Timothy Brook and Russell Shorto consider the VOC as the pioneering corporation in the first wave of the corporate globalization era. The VOC was the first multinational corporation to operate officially in different continents such as Europe, Asia and Africa. While the VOC mainly operated in what later became the Dutch East Indies (modern Indonesia), the company also had important operations elsewhere. It employed people from different continents and origins in the same functions and working environments. Although it was a Dutch company its employees included not only people from the Netherlands, but also many from Germany and from other countries as well. Besides the diverse north-west European workforce recruited by the VOC in the Dutch Republic, the VOC made extensive use of local Asian labour markets. As a result, the personnel of the various VOC offices in Asia consisted of European and Asian employees. Asian or Eurasian workers might be employed as sailors, soldiers, writers, carpenters, smiths, or as simple unskilled workers. At the height of its existence the VOC had 25,000 employees who worked in Asia and 11,000 who were en route. Also, while most of its shareholders were Dutch, about a quarter of the initial shareholders were Zuid-Nederlanders (people from an area that includes modern Belgium and Luxembourg) and there were also a few dozen Germans.\n\nThe VOC had two types of shareholders: the \"participanten\", who could be seen as non-managing members, and the 76 \"bewindhebbers\" (later reduced to 60) who acted as managing directors. This was the usual set-up for Dutch joint-stock companies at the time. The innovation in the case of the VOC was that the liability of not just the \"participanten\" but also of the \"bewindhebbers\" was limited to the paid-in capital (usually, \"bewindhebbers\" had unlimited liability). The VOC therefore was a limited liability company. Also, the capital would be \"permanent\" during the lifetime of the company. As a consequence, investors that wished to liquidate their interest in the interim could only do this by selling their share to others on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange.\n\"Confusion of confusions\", a 1688 dialogue by the Sephardi Jew Joseph de la Vega analysed the workings of this one-stock exchange.\n\nThe VOC consisted of six Chambers (\"Kamers\") in port cities: Amsterdam, Delft, Rotterdam, Enkhuizen, Middelburg and Hoorn. Delegates of these chambers convened as the \"Heeren XVII\" (the Lords Seventeen). They were selected from the \"bewindhebber\"-class of shareholders.\n\nOf the \"Heeren XVII\", eight delegates were from the Chamber of Amsterdam (one short of a majority on its own), four from the Chamber of Zeeland, and one from each of the smaller Chambers, while the seventeenth seat was alternatively from the Chamber of Middelburg-Zeeland or rotated among the five small Chambers. Amsterdam had thereby the decisive voice. The Zeelanders in particular had misgivings about this arrangement at the beginning. The fear was not unfounded, because in practice it meant Amsterdam stipulated what happened.\n\nThe six chambers raised the start-up capital of the Dutch East India Company:\nThe raising of capital in Rotterdam did not go so smoothly. A considerable part originated from inhabitants of Dordrecht. Although it did not raise as much capital as Amsterdam or Middelburg-Zeeland, Enkhuizen had the largest input in the share capital of the VOC. Under the first 358 shareholders, there were many small entrepreneurs, who dared to take the risk. The minimum investment in the VOC was 3,000 guilders, which priced the Company's stock within the means of many merchants.\n\nAmong the early shareholders of the VOC, immigrants played an important role. Under the 1,143 tenderers were 39 Germans and no fewer than 301 from the Southern Netherlands (roughly present Belgium and Luxembourg, then under Habsburg rule), of whom Isaac le Maire was the largest subscriber with ƒ85,000. VOC's total capitalisation was ten times that of its British rival.\n\nThe \"Heeren XVII\" (Lords Seventeen) met alternately 6 years in Amsterdam and 2 years in Middelburg-Zeeland. They defined the VOC's general policy and divided the tasks among the Chambers. The Chambers carried out all the necessary work, built their own ships and warehouses and traded the merchandise. The \"Heeren XVII\" sent the ships' masters off with extensive instructions on the route to be navigated, prevailing winds, currents, shoals and landmarks. The VOC also produced its own charts.\n\nIn the context of the Dutch-Portuguese War the company established its headquarters in Batavia, Java (now Jakarta, Indonesia). Other colonial outposts were also established in the East Indies, such as on the Maluku Islands, which include the Banda Islands, where the VOC forcibly maintained a monopoly over nutmeg and mace. Methods used to maintain the monopoly involved extortion and the violent suppression of the native population, including mass murder. In addition, VOC representatives sometimes used the tactic of burning spice trees to force indigenous populations to grow other crops, thus artificially cutting the supply of spices like nutmeg and cloves.\n\nOrganization and leadership structures were varied as necessary in the various VOC outposts:\n\n\"Opperhoofd\" is a Dutch word (pl. \"Opperhoofden\"), which literally means 'supreme chief'. In this VOC context, the word is a gubernatorial title, comparable to the English Chief factor, for the chief executive officer of a Dutch \"factory\" in the sense of trading post, as led by a factor, i.e. agent.\n\nThe Council of Justice in Batavia was the appellate court for all the other VOC Company posts in the VOC empire.\n\nThe seventeenth-century Dutch businessmen, especially the VOC investors, were possibly the history's first recorded investors to seriously consider the corporate governance's problems. Isaac Le Maire, who is known as history's first recorded short seller, was also a sizeable shareholder of the VOC. In 1609, he complained of the VOC's shoddy corporate governance. On 24 January 1609, Le Maire filed a petition against the VOC, marking the first recorded expression of shareholder activism. In what is the first recorded corporate governance dispute, Le Maire formally charged that the VOC's board of directors (the Heeren XVII) sought to \"retain another's money for longer or use it ways other than the latter wishes\" and petitioned for the liquidation of the VOC in accordance with standard business practice. Initially the largest single shareholder in the VOC and a \"bewindhebber\" sitting on the board of governors, Le Maire apparently attempted to divert the firm's profits to himself by undertaking 14 expeditions under his own accounts instead of those of the company. Since his large shareholdings were not accompanied by greater voting power, Le Maire was soon ousted by other governors in 1605 on charges of embezzlement, and was forced to sign an agreement not to compete with the VOC. Having retained stock in the company following this incident, in 1609 Le Maire would become the author of what is celebrated as \"first recorded expression of shareholder advocacy at a publicly traded company\".\n\nIn 1622, the history's first recorded shareholder revolt also happened among the VOC investors who complained that the company account books had been \"smeared with bacon\" so that they might be \"eaten by dogs.\" The investors demanded a \"reeckeninge,\" a proper financial audit. The 1622 campaign by the shareholders of the VOC is a testimony of genesis of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in which shareholders staged protests by distributing pamphlets and complaining about management self enrichment and secrecy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe history of VOC commercial conflict, for example with the British East India Company (EIC), was at times closely connected to Dutch military conflicts. The commercial interests of the VOC (and more generally the Netherlands) were reflected in military objectives and the settlements agreed by treaty. In the Treaty of Breda (1667) ending the Second Anglo-Dutch War, the Dutch were finally able to secure a VOC monopoly for nutmeg trade, ceding the island of Manhattan to the British while gaining the last non-VOC controlled source of nutmeg, the island of Rhun in the Banda islands. The Dutch later re-captured Manhattan, but returned it along with the colony of New Netherland in the Treaty of Westminster (1674) ending the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War. The British also gave up claims on Suriname as part of the Treaty of Westminster. There was also an effort to compensate the war-related losses of the Dutch West India Company in the mid-17th Century by the profits of the VOC, though this was ultimately blocked.\n\nMilitary conflicts involving the VOC (not necessarily comprehensive)\n\nIn terms of global business history, the lessons from the VOC's successes or failures are critically important. In his book \"Amsterdam: A History of the World's Most Liberal City\" (2013), American author and historian Russell Shorto summarizes the VOC's importance in world history: \"Like the oceans it mastered, the VOC had a scope that is hard to fathom. One could craft a defensible argument that no company in history has had such an impact on the world. Its surviving archives—in Cape Town, Colombo, Chennai, Jakarta, and The Hague—have been measured (by a consortium applying for a UNESCO grant to preserve them) in kilometers. In innumerable ways the VOC both expanded the world and brought its far-flung regions together. It introduced Europe to Asia and Africa, and vice versa (while its sister multinational, the West India Company, set New York City in motion and colonized Brazil and the Caribbean Islands). It pioneered globalization and invented what might be the first modern bureaucracy. It advanced cartography and shipbuilding. It fostered disease, slavery, and exploitation on a scale never before imaged.\"\n\nA pioneering early model of the multinational corporation in its modern sense, the Company is also considered to be the world's first true transnational corporation. In the early 1600s, the VOC became the world's first formally listed public company because it was the first corporation to be ever actually listed on a formal stock exchange. The VOC had a massive influence on the evolution of the modern corporation by creating an institutional prototype for subsequent large-scale business enterprises (in particular large corporations like multinational/transnational/global corporations) and their rise to become a highly significant socio-politico-economic force of the modern world as we know it today. In many respects, modern-day publicly-listed global companies (including Forbes Global 2000 companies) are all 'descendants' of a business model pioneered by the VOC in the 17th century. Like modern-day major corporations, in many ways, the post-1657 English/British East India Company's operational structure was a derivative of the earlier VOC model. \n\nDuring its golden age, the Company played crucial roles in business, financial, socio-politico-economic, military-political, diplomatic, ethnic, and exploratory maritime history of the world. In the early modern period, the VOC was also the driving force behind the rise of corporate-led globalization, corporate power, corporate identity, corporate culture, corporate social responsibility, corporate ethics, corporate governance, corporate finance, corporate capitalism, and finance capitalism. With its pioneering institutional innovations and powerful roles in world history, the Company is considered by many to be the first major, first modern, first global, most valuable, and most influential corporation ever seen. The VOC was also arguably the first historical model of the megacorporation.\n\n \n\nThe VOC played a crucial role in the rise of corporate-led globalization, corporate governance, corporate identity, corporate social responsibility, corporate finance, modern entrepreneurship, and financial capitalism. During its golden age, the Company made some fundamental institutional innovations in economic and financial history. These financially revolutionary innovations allowed a single company (like the VOC) to mobilize financial resources from a large number of investors and create ventures at a scale that had previously only been possible for monarchs. In the words of Canadian historian and sinologist Timothy Brook, \"the Dutch East India Company – the VOC, as it is known – is to corporate capitalism what Benjamin Franklin's kite is to electronics: the beginning of something momentous that could not have been predicted at the time.\" The birth and growth of the VOC (especially in the 17th century) is considered by many to be the official beginning of the corporate globalization era with the rise of large-scale business enterprises (multinational/transnational corporations in particular) as a highly formidable socio-politico-economic force that significantly affects people's lives in every corner of the world today, whether for better or worse. As the world's first publicly traded company and first listed company (the first company to be ever listed on an official stock exchange), the VOC was the first company to issue stock and bonds to the general public. Considered by many experts to be the world's first truly (modern) multinational corporation, the VOC was also the first permanently organized limited-liability joint-stock company, with a permanent capital base. The VOC shareholders were the pioneers in laying the basis for modern corporate governance and corporate finance. The VOC is often considered as the precursor of modern corporations, if not the first truly modern corporation. It was the VOC that invented the idea of investing in the company rather than in a specific venture governed by the company. With its pioneering features such as corporate identity (first globally recognized corporate logo), entrepreneurial spirit, legal personhood, transnational (multinational) operational structure, high and stable profitability, permanent capital (fixed capital stock), freely transferable shares and tradable securities, separation of ownership and management, and limited liability for both shareholders and managers, the VOC is generally considered a major institutional breakthrough and the model for large corporations that now dominate the global economy.\n\nThe VOC was a driving force behind the rise of Amsterdam as the first modern model of international financial centres that now dominate the global financial system. With their political independence, huge maritime and financial power, Republican-period Amsterdam and other Dutch cities – unlike their Southern Netherlandish cousins and predecessors such as Burgundian-rule Bruges and Habsburg-rule Antwerp – could control crucial resources and markets directly, sending their combined fleets to almost all quarters of the globe. During the 17th century and most of the 18th century, Amsterdam had been the most influential financial centre of the world. The VOC also played a major role in the creation of the world's first fully functioning financial market, with the birth of a fully fledged capital market. The Dutch were also the first who effectively used a fully-fledged capital market (including the bond market and the stock market) to finance companies (such as the VOC and the WIC). It was in the 17th-century Dutch Republic that the global securities market began to take on its modern form. And it was in Amsterdam that the important institutional innovations such as publicly traded companies, transnational corporations, capital markets (including bond markets and stock markets), central banking system, investment banking system, and investment funds (mutual funds) were systematically operated for the first time in history. In 1602 the VOC established an exchange in Amsterdam where VOC stock and bonds could be traded in a secondary market. The VOC undertook the world's first recorded IPO in the same year. The Amsterdam Stock Exchange (\"Amsterdamsche Beurs\" or \"Beurs van Hendrick de Keyser\" in Dutch) was also the world's first fully-fledged stock exchange. While the Italian city-states produced first formal bond markets, they didn't develop the other ingredient necessary to produce a fully fledged capital market: the formal stock market. The Dutch East India Company (VOC) became the first company to offer shares of stock. The dividend averaged around 18% of capital over the course of the Company's 200-year existence. The launch of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange by the VOC in the early 1600s, has long been recognized as the origin of 'modern' stock exchanges that specialize in creating and sustaining secondary markets in the securities (such as bonds and shares of stock) issued by corporations. Dutch investors were the first to trade their shares at a regular stock exchange. The process of buying and selling these shares of stock in the VOC became the basis of the first official (formal) stock market in history. It was in the Dutch Republic that the early techniques of stock-market manipulation were developed. The Dutch pioneered stock futures, stock options, short selling, bear raids, debt-equity swaps, and other speculative instruments. Amsterdam businessman Joseph de la Vega's \"Confusion of Confusions\" (1688) was the earliest book about stock trading.\n\nThe idea of a highly competitive and organized (active mainly in Greater India but headquartered in the United Provinces of the Netherlands) Dutch government-backed privately-financed military-commercial enterprise was the wartime brainchild of the leading republican statesman Johan van Oldenbarnevelt and the States-General in the late 1590s. In 1602, the \"United\" East India Company (VOC) was formed by a government-directed consolidation/amalgamation of several rival Dutch trading companies or the so-called \"voorcompagnieën\". It was a time when the newly formed Dutch Republic was in the midst of their eighty-year-long revolutionary global war against the mighty Spanish Empire and Iberian Union (1579–1648). And therefore, from the beginning, the VOC was not only a business enterprise but also an instrument of war. In other words, the VOC was a fully functioning military-political-commercial complex in its own right rather than a pure trading company or shipping company.\nIn the early modern period, the VOC was the largest private employer in the Low Countries. The Company was a major force behind the financial revolution and economic miracle of the young Dutch Republic in the 17th century. During their Golden Age, the Dutch Republic (or the Northern Netherlands), as the resource-poor and obscure cousins of the more urbanized Southern Netherlands, rose to become the world's leading economic and financial superpower. Despite its lack of natural resources (except for water and wind power) and its comparatively modest size and population, the Dutch Republic dominated global market in many advanced industries such as shipbuilding, shipping, water engineering, printing and publishing, map making, pulp and paper, lens-making, sugarcane refining, overseas investment, financial services, and international trade. The Dutch Republic was an early industrialized nation-state in its Golden Age. The 17th-century Dutch mechanical innovations/inventions such as wind-powered sawmills and Hollander beaters helped revolutionize shipbuilding and paper (including pulp) industries in the early modern period. The VOC's shipyards also contributed greatly to the Dutch domination of global shipbuilding and shipping industries during the 1600s. \"By seventeenth century standards,\" as Richard Unger affirms, Dutch shipbuilding \"was a massive industry and larger than any shipbuilding industry which had preceded it.\" By the 1670s the size of the Dutch merchant fleet probably exceeded the combined fleets of England, France, Spain, Portugal, and Germany. Until the mid-1700s, the (including its financial system) was the most advanced and sophisticated ever seen in history. From about 1600 to 1720, the Dutch had the highest per capita income in the world, at least double that of neighbouring countries at the time. \n\nHowever, in a typical multicultural society of the Netherlands (home to one million citizens with roots in the former colonies Indonesia, Suriname and the Antilles), the VOC's history (and especially its dark side) has always been a potential source of controversy. In 2006 when the Dutch Prime Minister Jan Pieter Balkenende referred to the pioneering entrepreneurial spirit and work ethics of the Dutch people and Dutch Republic in their Golden Age, he coined the term \"VOC mentality\" (\"\" in Dutch). For Balkenende, the VOC represented Dutch business acumen, entrepreneurship, adventurous spirit, and decisiveness. However, it unleashed a wave of criticism, since such romantic views about the Dutch Golden Age ignores the inherent historical associations with colonialism, exploitation and violence. Balkenende later stressed that \"it had not been his intention to refer to that at all\". But in spite of criticisms, the \"VOC-mentality\", as a characteristic of the selective historical perspective on the Dutch Golden Age, has been considered a key feature of Dutch cultural policy for many years.\n\nThe VOC was a transcontinental employer and an early pioneer of outward foreign direct investment at the dawn of modern capitalism. In his book \"The Ecology of Money: Debt, Growth, and Sustainability\" (2013), Adrian Kuzminski notes, \"The Dutch, it seems, more than anyone in the West since the palmy days of ancient Rome, had more money than they knew what to do with. They discovered, unlike the Romans, that the best use of money was to make more money. They invested it, mostly in overseas ventures, utilizing the innovation of the joint-stock company in which private investors could purchase shares, the most famous being the Dutch East India Company.\" The VOC's intercontinental activities played a major role to the Dutch Republic's prosperity, as well as it could awaken socio-economic dynamism elsewhere. Wherever Dutch capital went, urban features were developed, economic activities expanded, new industries established, new jobs created, trading companies operated, swamps drained, mines opened, forests exploited, canals constructed, mills turned, and ships were built. In the early modern period, the Dutch were pioneering capitalists who raised the commercial and industrial potential of underdeveloped or undeveloped lands whose resources they exploited, whether for better or worse. For example, the native economies of pre-VOC era Taiwan and South Africa were virtually undeveloped or were in almost primitive states. In many way, recorded economic history of Taiwan and South Africa began with the golden age of the VOC in the 17th century. It was VOC people who established and developed the first urban areas in the history of Taiwan (Tainan) and South Africa (including Cape Town, Stellenbosch, and Swellendam).\n\nThe VOC existed for almost 200 years from its founding in 1602, when the States-General of the Netherlands granted it a 21-year monopoly over Dutch operations in Asia until its demise in 1796. During those two centuries (between 1602 and 1796), the VOC sent almost a million Europeans to work in the Asia trade on 4,785 ships, and netted for their efforts more than 2.5 million tons of Asian trade goods. By contrast, the rest of Europe combined sent only 882,412 people from 1500 to 1795, and the fleet of the English (later British) East India Company, the VOC's nearest competitor, was a distant second to its total traffic with 2,690 ships and a mere one-fifth the tonnage of goods carried by the VOC. The VOC enjoyed huge profits from its spice monopoly through most of the 17th century. By 1669, the VOC was the richest company the world had ever seen, with over 150 merchant ships, 40 warships, 50,000 employees, a private army of 10,000 soldiers, and a dividend payment of 40% on the original investment.\n\nIn terms of military-political history, the VOC, along with the Dutch West India Company (WIC/GWIC), was seen as the international arm of the Dutch Republic and the symbolic power of the Dutch Empire. The VOC was historically a military-political-economic complex rather than a pure trading company (or shipping company). The government-backed but privately financed company was effectively a state in its own right, or a state within another state. For almost 200 years of its existence, the VOC was a key non-state geopolitical player in Eurasia. The Company was much an unofficial representative of the States General of the United Provinces in foreign relations of the Dutch Republic with many states, especially Dutch-Asian relations. The Company's territories were even larger than some countries.\n\nThe VOC had seminal influences on the modern history of many countries and territories around the world such as New Netherland (New York), Indonesia, Malaysia, India, Sri Lanka, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Mauritius, Taiwan, and Japan.\n\nDuring the Dutch Golden Age, the Dutch – using their expertise in doing business, cartography, shipbuilding, seafaring and navigation – traveled to the far corners of the world, leaving their language embedded in the names of many places. Dutch exploratory voyages revealed largely unknown landmasses to the civilized world and put their names on the world map. During the Golden Age of Dutch exploration (c. 1590s–1720s) and the Golden Age of Netherlandish cartography (c. 1570s–1670s), Dutch-speaking navigators, explorers, and cartographers were the undisputed firsts to chart/map many hitherto largely unknown regions of the earth and the sky. The Dutch came to dominate the map-making and map printing industry by virtue of their own travels, trade ventures, and widespread commercial networks. As Dutch ships reached into the unknown corners of the globe, Dutch cartographers incorporated new geographical discoveries into their work. Instead of using the information themselves secretly, they published it, so the maps multiplied freely. For almost 200 years, the Dutch dominated world trade. Dutch ships carried goods, but they also opened up opportunities for the exchange of knowledge. The commercial networks of the Dutch transnational companies, i.e. the VOC and West India Company (WIC/GWIC), provided an infrastructure which was accessible to people with a scholarly interest in the exotic world. The VOC's bookkeeper Hendrick Hamel was the first known European/Westerner to experience first-hand and write about Joseon-era Korea. In his report (published in the Dutch Republic) in 1666 Hendrick Hamel described his adventures on the Korean Peninsula and gave the first accurate description of daily life of Koreans to the western world. The VOC trade post on Dejima, an artificial island off the coast of Nagasaki, was for more than two hundred years the only place where Europeans were permitted to trade with Japan. Rangaku (literally 'Dutch Learning', and by extension 'Western Learning') is a body of knowledge developed by Japan through its contacts with the Dutch enclave of Dejima, which allowed Japan to keep abreast of Western technology and medicine in the period when the country was closed to foreigners, 1641–1853, because of the Tokugawa shogunate's policy of national isolation (sakoku).\n\nFrom 1609 the VOC had a trading post in Japan (Hirado, Nagasaki), which used local paper for its own administration. However, the paper was also traded to the VOC's other trading posts and even the Dutch Republic. Many impressions of the Dutch Golden Age artist Rembrandt's prints were done on Japanese paper. From about 1647 Rembrandt sought increasingly to introduce variation into his prints by using different sorts of paper, and printed most of his plates regularly on Japanese paper. He also used the paper for his drawings. The Japanese paper types – which was actually imported from Japan by the VOC – attracted Rembrandt with its warm, yellowish colour. They are often smooth and shiny, whilst Western paper has a more rough and matt surface. Moreover, the VOC's imported Chinese export porcelain and Japanese export porcelain wares are often depicted in many Dutch Golden Age genre paintings, especially in Jan Vermeer's paintings.\n\n \n\nThe Dutch East India Company (VOC) was also a major force behind the (c. 1590s–1720s). The VOC-funded exploratory voyages such as those led by Willem Janszoon (\"Duyfken\"), Henry Hudson (\"Halve Maen\") and Abel Tasman revealed largely unknown landmasses to the civilized world. Also, during the Golden Age of Dutch/Netherlandish cartography (c. 1570s–1670s), VOC navigators, explorers, and cartographers helped shape cartographic and geographic knowledge of the modern-day world.\n\nIn 1609, English sea captain and explorer Henry Hudson was hired by the VOC émigrés running the VOC located in Amsterdam to find a north-east passage to Asia, sailing around Scandinavia and Russia. He was turned back by the ice of the Arctic in his second attempt, so he sailed west to seek a north-west passage rather than return home. He ended up exploring the waters off the east coast of North America aboard the \"vlieboot\" \"Halve Maen\". His first landfall was at Newfoundland and the second at Cape Cod.\n\nHudson believed that the passage to the Pacific Ocean was between the St. Lawrence River and Chesapeake Bay, so he sailed south to the Bay then turned northward, traveling close along the shore. He first discovered Delaware Bay and began to sail upriver looking for the passage. This effort was foiled by sandy shoals, and the \"Halve Maen\" continued north. After passing Sandy Hook, Hudson and his crew entered the narrows into the Upper New York Bay. (Unbeknownst to Hudson, the narrows had already been discovered in 1524 by explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano; today, the bridge spanning them is named after him.) Hudson believed that he had found the continental water route, so he sailed up the major river which later bore his name: the Hudson. He found the water too shallow to proceed several days later, at the site of present-day Troy, New York.\n\nUpon returning to the Netherlands, Hudson reported that he had found a fertile land and an amicable people willing to engage his crew in small-scale bartering of furs, trinkets, clothes, and small manufactured goods. His report was first published in 1611 by Emanuel Van Meteren, an Antwerp émigré and the Dutch Consul at London. This stimulated interest in exploiting this new trade resource, and it was the catalyst for Dutch merchant-traders to fund more expeditions.\n\nIn 1611–12, the Admiralty of Amsterdam sent two covert expeditions to find a passage to China with the yachts \"Craen\" and \"Vos\", captained by Jan Cornelisz Mey and Symon Willemsz Cat, respectively. In four voyages made between 1611 and 1614, the area between present-day Maryland and Massachusetts was explored, surveyed, and charted by Adriaen Block, Hendrick Christiaensen, and Cornelius Jacobsen Mey. The results of these explorations, surveys, and charts made from 1609 through 1614 were consolidated in Block's map, which used the name \"New Netherland\" for the first time.\n\nIn terms of world history of geography and exploration, the VOC can be credited with putting most of Australia's coast (then Hollandia Nova and other names) on the world map, between 1606 and 1756.\nWhile Australia's territory (originally known as New Holland) never became an actual Dutch settlement or colony, Dutch navigators were the first to undisputedly explore and map Australian coastline. In the 17th century, the VOC's navigators and explorers charted almost three-quarters of Australia's coastline, except its east coast. The Dutch ship, \"Duyfken\", led by Willem Janszoon, made the first documented European landing in Australia in 1606. Although a theory of Portuguese discovery in the 1520s exists, it lacks definitive evidence. Precedence of discovery has also been claimed for China, France, Spain, India, and even Phoenicia.\n\nHendrik Brouwer's discovery of the Brouwer Route, that sailing east from the Cape of Good Hope until land was sighted and then sailing north along the west coast of Australia was a much quicker route than around the coast of the Indian Ocean, made Dutch landfalls on the west coast inevitable. The first such landfall was in 1616, when Dirk Hartog landed at Cape Inscription on what is now known as Dirk Hartog Island, off the coast of Western Australia, and left behind an inscription on a pewter plate. In 1697 the Dutch captain Willem de Vlamingh landed on the island and discovered Hartog's plate. He replaced it with one of his own, which included a copy of Hartog's inscription, and took the original plate home to Amsterdam, where it is still kept in the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam.\n\nIn 1627, the VOC's explorers François Thijssen and Pieter Nuyts discovered the south coast of Australia and charted about of it between Cape Leeuwin and the Nuyts Archipelago. François Thijssen, captain of the ship \"'t Gulden Zeepaert\" (The Golden Seahorse), sailed to the east as far as Ceduna in South Australia. The first known ship to have visited the area is the \"Leeuwin\" (\"Lioness\"), a Dutch vessel that charted some of the nearby coastline in 1622. The log of the \"Leeuwin\" has been lost, so very little is known of the voyage. However, the land discovered by the \"Leeuwin\" was recorded on a 1627 map by Hessel Gerritsz: Caert van't Landt van d'Eendracht (\"Chart of the Land of Eendracht\"), which appears to show the coast between present-day Hamelin Bay and Point D’Entrecasteaux. Part of Thijssen's map shows the islands St Francis and St Peter, now known collectively with their respective groups as the Nuyts Archipelago. Thijssen's observations were included as soon as 1628 by the VOC cartographer Hessel Gerritsz in a chart of the Indies and New Holland. This voyage defined most of the southern coast of Australia and discouraged the notion that \"New Holland\" as it was then known, was linked to Antarctica.\n\nIn 1642, Abel Tasman sailed from Mauritius and on 24 November, sighted Tasmania. He named Tasmania Anthoonij van Diemenslandt (Anglicised as Van Diemen's Land), after Anthony van Diemen, the VOC's Governor General, who had commissioned his voyage. It was officially renamed Tasmania in honour of its first European discoverer on 1 January 1856.\n\nIn 1642, during the same expedition, Tasman's crew discovered and charted New Zealand's coastline. They were the first Europeans known to reach New Zealand. Tasman anchored at the northern end of the South Island in Golden Bay (he named it Murderers' Bay) in December 1642 and sailed northward to Tonga following a clash with local Māori. Tasman sketched sections of the two main islands' west coasts. Tasman called them \"Staten Landt\", after the \"States General of the Netherlands\", and that name appeared on his first maps of the country. In 1645 Dutch cartographers changed the name to \"Nova Zeelandia\" in Latin, from \"Nieuw Zeeland\", after the Dutch province of \"Zeeland\". It was subsequently Anglicised as \"New Zealand\" by James Cook. Various claims have been made that New Zealand was reached by other non-Polynesian voyagers before Tasman, but these are not widely accepted.\n\nIn spite of the VOC's historic successes and contributions, the Company has long been criticized for its quasi-absolute commercial monopoly, colonialism, exploitation (including use of slave labour), slave trade, use of violence, environmental destruction (including deforestation), and overly bureaucratic in organizational structure.\n\nBy the time the settlement was established at the Cape in 1652, the VOC already had a long experience of practising slavery in the East Indies. Jan van Riebeeck concluded within two months of the establishment of the Cape settlement that slave labor would be needed for the hardest and dirtiest work. Initially, the VOC considered enslaving men from the indigenous Khoikhoi population, but the idea was rejected on the grounds that such a policy would be both costly and dangerous. Most Khoikhoi had chosen not to labor for the Dutch because of low wages and harsh conditions. In the beginning, the settlers traded with the Khoikhoi but the harsh working conditions and low wages imposed by the Dutch led to a series of wars. The European population remained under 200 during the settlement's first five years, and war against neighbors numbering more than 20,000 would have been foolhardy. Moreover, the Dutch feared that Khoikhoi people, if enslaved, could always escape into the local community, whereas foreigners would find it much more difficult to elude their \"masters.\"\n\nBetween 1652 and 1657, a number of unsuccessful attempts were made to obtain men from the Dutch East Indies and from Mauritius. In 1658, however, the VOC landed two shiploads of slaves at the Cape, one containing more than 200 people brought from Dahomey (later Benin), the second with almost 200 people, most of them children, captured from a Portuguese slaver off the coast of Angola. Except for a few individuals, these were to be the only slaves ever brought to the Cape from West Africa. From 1658 to the end of the Company's rule, many more slaves were brought regularly to the Cape in various ways, chiefly by Company-sponsored slaving voyages and slaves brought to the Cape by its return fleets. From these sources and by natural growth, the slave population increased from zero in 1652 to about 1,000 by 1700. During the 18th century, the slave population increased dramatically to 16,839 by 1795. After the slave trade was initiated, all of the slaves imported into the Cape until the British stopped the trade in 1807 were from East Africa, Mozambique, Madagascar, and South and Southeast Asia. Large numbers were brought from India, Ceylon, and the Indonesian archipelago. Prisoners from other countries in the VOC's empire were also enslaved. The slave population, which exceeded that of the European settlers until the first quarter of the nineteenth century, was overwhelmingly male and was thus dependent on constant imports of new slaves to maintain and to augment its size.\n\nBy the 1660s the Cape settlement was importing slaves from India, Malaya (Malaysia), and Madagascar to work on the farms. Conflict between Dutch farmers and Khoikhoi broke out once it became clear to the latter that the Dutch were there to stay and that they intended to encroach on the lands of the pastoralists. In 1659 Doman, a Khoikhoi who had worked as a translator for the Dutch and had even traveled to Java, led an armed attempt to expel the Dutch from the Cape peninsula. The attempt was a failure, although warfare dragged on until an inconclusive peace was established a year later. During the following decade, pressure on the Khoikhoi grew as more of the Dutch became free burghers, expanded their landholdings, and sought pastureland for their growing herds. War broke out again in 1673 and continued until 1677, when Khoikhoi resistance was destroyed by a combination of superior European weapons and Dutch manipulation of divisions among the local people. Thereafter, Khoikhoi society in the western Cape disintegrated. Some people found jobs as shepherds on European farms; others rejected foreign rule and moved away from the Cape. The final blow for most came in 1713 when a Dutch ship brought smallpox to the Cape. Hitherto unknown locally, the disease ravaged the remaining Khoikhoi, killing 90 percent of the population. Throughout the eighteenth century, the settlement continued to expand through internal growth of the European population and the continued importation of slaves. The approximately 3,000 Europeans and slaves at the Cape in 1700 had increased by the end of the century to nearly 20,000 Europeans, and approximately 25,000 slaves.\n\n\n\n\nPopulated places (including cities, towns and villages) established/founded by people of the Dutch East India Company (VOC).\n\n\n\nThe VOC's operations (trading posts and colonies) produced not only warehouses packed with spices, coffee, tea, textiles, porcelain and silk, but also shiploads of documents. Data on political, economic, cultural, religious, and social conditions spread over an enormous area circulated between the VOC establishments, the administrative centre of the trade in Batavia (modern-day Jakarta), and the board of directors (the Heeren XVII/Gentlemen Seventeen) in the Dutch Republic. The VOC records are included in UNESCO's Memory of the World Register.\n\nThe Dutch East India Company (VOC), as a historical transcontinental company-state, is one of the best expertly researched business enterprises in history. For almost 200 years of the Company's existence (1602–1800), the VOC had effectively transformed itself from a corporate entity into a state, an empire, or even a world in its own right. The VOC World (i.e. networks of people, places, things, activities, and events associated with the Dutch East India Company) has been the subject of a vast amount of literature, including works of fiction and non-fiction. VOC World studies (often included within a broader field of early-modern Dutch global world studies) is an international multidisciplinary field focused on social, cultural, religious, scientific, technological, economic, financial, business, maritime, military, political, legal, diplomatic activities, organization and administration of the VOC and its colourful world. As North & Kaufmann (2014) notes, \"the Dutch East India Company (VOC) has long attracted the attention of scholarship. Its lengthy history, widespread enterprises, and the survival of massive amounts of documentation – literally 1,200 meters of essays pertaining to the VOC may be found in the National Archives in The Hague, and many more documents are scattered in archives throughout Asia and in South Africa – have stimulated many works on economic and social history. Important publications have also appeared on the trade, shipping, institutional organization, and administration of the VOC. Much has also been learned about the VOC and Dutch colonial societies. Moreover, the TANAP (Towards a New Age of Partnership, 2000–2007) project has created momentum for research on the relationship between the VOC and indigenous societies. In contrast, the role of the VOC in cultural history and especially in the history of visual and material culture has not yet attracted comparable interest. To be sure, journals and other travel accounts (some even with illustrations) by soldiers, shippers, and VOC officials among others have been utilized as sources.\" VOC scholarship is highly specialized in general, such as archaeological studies of the VOC World. Some of the notable include Sinnappah Arasaratnam, Leonard Blussé, Peter Borschberg, Charles Ralph Boxer, Jaap R. Bruijn, Femme Gaastra, Om Prakash, and Nigel Worden.\n\nFor scholarly works (books and articles) about the VOC world, see article section: List of works about the Dutch East India Company#Non-fiction.\n\nThe publication of the \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\" by Abraham Ortelius in 1570 marked the official beginning of the Golden Age of Netherlandish cartography (c. 1570s–1670s). In the (c. 1590s–1720s), the Dutch Republic's seafarers and explorers (including the VOC's navigators) became the first non-natives to undisputedly discover, explore and map coastlines of the Australian continent (including Mainland Australia, Tasmania, and their surrounding islands), New Zealand, Tonga, and Fiji.\n\n\n\nVOC World – networks of people, places, things, activities, and events associated with the Dutch East India Company (VOC).\n\nGovernors-General of the Dutch East India Company (VOC)\n\nOther notable trading companies in the Age of Sail\n\n"}
{"id": "5654625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5654625", "title": "Earth Charter Initiative", "text": "Earth Charter Initiative\n\nThe Earth Charter Initiative is the collective name for the global network of people, organizations, and institutions who participate in promoting the Earth Charter, and in implementing its principles in practice. The Initiative is a broad-based, voluntary, civil society effort, but participants include leading international institutions, national government agencies, university associations, NGOs, cities, faith groups, and many well-known leaders in sustainable development.\n\nThe stated mission of the Earth Charter Initiative is to promote the transition to sustainable ways of living and a global society founded on a shared ethical framework that includes respect and care for the community of life, ecological integrity, universal human rights, respect for diversity, economic justice, democracy, and a culture of peace.\n\n\n\nA formal network of affiliates, partners, and youth groups helps to promote the Earth Charter around the world. Many of these representatives are based in prominent national-level organizations and institutions.\n\nThe Initiative is served and coordinated by Earth Charter International, which is composed by an Executive Office called the ECI Secretariat, and by the ECI Council. The Secretariat is composed by a very small staff, and it is based at the University for Peace campus in San José, Costa Rica. The Council is equivalent to a Board, they meet once a year and provide strategic guidance to the Secretariat and the EC Initiative.\n\nThe Earth Charter Youth program is a network of youth NGOs and young activists who share a common interest in sustainable development and the Earth Charter. Severn Cullis-Suzuki from Vancouver, Canada was nominated as youth representative in the Earth Charter Commission, which oversaw the drafting process. At the age of 17, Severn participated in the Earth Summit of 1997 and made sure that concerns of young people were taken seriously in the process of drafting the Earth Charter. She contributed to the inclusion of principle 12c in the final version of the Earth Charter which stresses the need to: “Honor and support the young people of our communities, enabling them to fulfill their essential role in creating sustainable societies.” The launch of the Earth Charter Youth program was inspired by this ethical principle. Today there are two youth representatives on the Earth Charter International Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20080220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20080220", "title": "Extreme points of Moldova", "text": "Extreme points of Moldova\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Moldova: the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location, as well as the highest and lowest points in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54571", "title": "Geography of Fiji", "text": "Geography of Fiji\n\n]\n\nFiji is a group of volcanic islands in the South Pacific, lying about southwest of Honolulu and north of New Zealand. Of the 332 islands and 522 smaller islets making up the archipelago, about 106 are permanently inhabited. Viti Levu, the largest island, covers about 57% of the nation's land area, hosts the two official cities (the capital Suva, and Lautoka) and most other major towns, such as Nausori, Vaileka, Ba, Tavua, Kororvou, Nasinu, and Nadi (the site of the international airport), and contains some 69% of the population. Vanua Levu, to the north of Viti Levu, covers just over 30% of the land area though is home to only some 15% of the population. Its main towns are Labasa and Savusavu. In the northeast it features Natewa Bay, carving out the Loa peninsula.\n\nBoth islands are mountainous, with peaks up to rising abruptly from the shore, and covered with tropical forests. Heavy rains (up to annually) fall on the windward (southeastern) side, covering these sections of the islands with dense tropical forest. Lowlands on the western portions of each of the main islands are sheltered by the mountains and have a well-marked dry season favorable to crops such as sugarcane.\n\nOther islands and island groups, which cover just 12.5% of the land area and house some 16% of the population, include Taveuni southeast off Vanua Levu and Kadavu Island, south off Viti Levu (the third and fourth largest islands respectively), the Mamanuca Group (just off Nadi) and Yasawa Group (to the north of the Mamanucas), which are popular tourist destinations, the Lomaiviti Group (just off Suva) with Levuka, the former capital and the only major town on any of the smaller islands, located on the island of Ovalau, and the remote Lau Group over the Koro Sea to the east near Tonga, from which it is separated by the Lakeba Passage.\n\nTwo outlying regions are Rotuma, to the north, and the uninhabited coral atoll and cay Ceva-i-Ra or Conway Reef, to the southwest of main Fiji. Culturally conservative Rotuma with its 2000 people on geographically belongs to Polynesia, and enjoys relative autonomy as a Fijian dependency.\n\nFiji Television reported on 21 September 2006 that the Fiji Islands Maritime and Safety Administration (FIMSA), while reviewing its outdated maritime charts, had discovered the possibility that more islands could lie within Fiji's Exclusive Economic Zone.\n\nMore than half of Fiji's population lives on the island coasts, either in Suva or in smaller urban centers. The interior is sparsely populated because of its rough terrain.\n\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Fiji, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\nThe antipodes of Fiji are in eastern Mali, around the northernmost bend of the Niger River. The small western island of Yasawa is antipodal to the Niger about from Timbuktu, whereas the eastern cape of Vanua Levu corresponds to the old imperial city of Gao.\n\nThe antipodes of the dependency of Rotuma are in Burkina Faso, west of Ouagadougou.\n\n"}
{"id": "64579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64579", "title": "Geography of Iceland", "text": "Geography of Iceland\n\nIceland is an island country at the confluence of the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans, east of Greenland and immediately south of the Arctic Circle, atop the constructive boundary of the northern Mid-Atlantic Ridge about from Scotland and from New York City. One of the world's most sparsely populated countries, Iceland's boundaries are almost the same as the main island – the world's 18th largest in area and possessing almost all of the country's area and population. It is the westernmost European country with more land covered by glaciers than in all of continental Europe.\n\nIsland in North America (commonly regarded as a part of Northern Europe), straddling the Eurasian and North American plates between the Greenland Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, northwest of the British Isles\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nExtent (locations outside mainland in parentheses)\n\nArea: 39,769 sq miles (103,001 km²)\n\n\nFish, diatomite, hydrothermal power\n\n\nVolcanism, earthquakes, avalanches, and glacial lake outburst flooding (or \"jökulhlaups\")\n\n\nWater pollution from fertilizer runoff; inadequate wastewater treatment\n\nIceland consists of eight geographical regions, Capital Region, Southern Peninsula, West, Westfjords, Northwest, Northeast, East and South. Twenty per cent of the land is used for grazing, while only one per cent is cultivated. Iceland has lost most of the woodland that previously covered large areas of the country, but an ambitious reforestation program is currently underway. Fossilized tree pollen and descriptions by the early settlers indicate that prior to human settlement, now thought to have occurred from around the year 800 onwards, trees covered between thirty and forty per cent of the island. Today, however, there are only small patches of the original birch forests left, the most prominent being Hallormsstaðaskógur and Vaglaskógur. The country of Iceland contains thirty six islands. The longest river on the island is the Þjórsá at 230 kilometres (about 143 miles). Iceland has three national parks: Vatnajökull National Park, Snæfellsjökull National Park, and Þingvellir National Park.\n\nThe inhabited areas are on the coast, particularly in the southwest, while the central highlands are all but uninhabited. The island's terrain is mostly plateau interspersed with mountain peaks, icefields and a coast deeply indented by bays and fjords.\n\nThe Highlands make up about half of Iceland's land area, which is of recent volcanic origin, and consists of a mountainous lava desert (highest elevation above sea level) and other wasteland. The area is mostly uninhabited. \n\nThe Westfjords region is composed of a large, mountainous peninsula on Iceland's northwestern coast. The coastline is marked by numerous fjords as its name suggests. The peninsula contains Iceland's northernmost glacier, Drangajökull.\n\nThe Southern Peninsula, also known as the Reykjanes Peninsula, is located in the southwestern corner of Iceland. The area contains little vegetation due to active volcanism and large lava fields. There are hot springs and sulphur springs in the southern portion of the peninsula, in the Kleifarvatn lake and the Krýsuvík geothermal area.\n\nHome to Iceland's capital, Reykjavík, the Capital Region is the most densely populated area in Iceland. It is located on the southwest coast of the island near the Southern Peninsula. The majority of Reykjavik is located on the Seltjarnarnes peninsula. Mount Esja, at 914 m (2,999 ft), is the highest mountain in the vicinity of Reykjavík. Several natural harbours exist, and provide good fishing grounds. \n\nLocated in the western portion of the island and north of the Capital Region. In Hvaljörður fjord rests the tallest waterfall in Iceland, Glymur. West is also home to Borgarfjörður, a fjord with volcanic activity such as Deildartunguhver- a powerful hotspring. The 804 metre Hafnarfjall Mountain rises over the landscape.\n\nThe southern portion of Iceland contains some of its most notable volcanoes such as Hekla, Eldgjá and Katla. Alongside the volcanoes exist numerous glaciers such as Vatnajökull, Mýrdalsjökull and Eyjafjallajökull. Basalt columns and black sand beaches are examples of the volcanic activity of the area. The area also contains mountain ranges and Iceland's highest peak, Hvannadalshnjúkur, as well as the Vestmannaeyjar (Westman Islands) archipelago. \n\nEast Iceland contains the majority of the island's vegetation and birch forests. \n\nAround 10.2 per cent of the total land area is covered by glaciers, although these are now retreating at an accelerating rate. The four largest Icelandic glaciers are:\n\n\nOther notable glaciers include:\n\n\nBecause of the Gulf Stream's moderating influence, the climate is temperate and characterized by damp, cool summers and relatively mild but windy winters. Reykjavík has an average temperature of in July and in January It has a Köppen Climate Classification of Subpolar oceanic climate (\"Cfc\") with most of the island classified as Tundra (\"ET\").\n\nIceland has extensive volcanic and geothermal activity. The rift associated with the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, which marks the division between the Eurasian Plate and North American tectonic plates, runs across Iceland from the southwest to the northeast. This geographic feature is prominent at the Þingvellir National Park, where the promontory creates an extraordinary natural amphitheatre. The site was the home of Iceland's parliament, the Alþing, which was first convened in the year 930. It is a common misconception that Þingvellir is at the juncture between the North American and Eurasian continental plates. However, they are in fact at the juncture of the North American continental plate and a smaller plate (approx. 10,000 km2) called the Hreppar Microplate (Hreppaflekinn). From 1963 to 1967, the island of Surtsey was created on the southwest coast by a volcanic eruption.\n\nA geologically young land, Iceland is located on both the Iceland hotspot and the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, which runs right through it. This location means that the island is highly geologically active with earthquakes and many volcanoes, notably Hekla, Eldgjá, Herðubreið and Eldfell. Eyjafjallajökull (1,666 m) erupted in 2010, disrupting European air traffic. \n\nIceland has many geysers, including Geysir, from which the English word \"geyser\" is derived.\n\nWith the widespread availability of geothermal power, and the harnessing of many rivers and waterfalls for hydroelectricity, most residents have access to inexpensive hot water, heating and electricity.\n\nThe island is composed primarily of basalt, a low-silica lava associated with effusive volcanism as has occurred also in Hawaii. Iceland, however, has a variety of volcanic types (composite and fissure), many producing more evolved lavas such as rhyolite and andesite. Iceland has hundreds of volcanoes with approximately thirty volcanic systems active.\n\nParty to: \n\nSigned, but not ratified:\n\n"}
{"id": "18582763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18582763", "title": "Geoprocessing", "text": "Geoprocessing\n\nGeoprocessing is a GIS operation used to manipulate spatial data. A typical geoprocessing operation takes an input dataset, performs an operation on that dataset, and returns the result of the operation as an output dataset. Common geoprocessing operations include geographic feature overlay, feature selection and analysis, topology processing, raster processing, and data conversion. Geoprocessing allows for definition, management, and analysis of information used to form decisions.\n\nA typical geoprocessing tools performs an operation on a dataset and create a resulting output dataset.\n"}
{"id": "2781120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2781120", "title": "Hadal zone", "text": "Hadal zone\n\nThe hadal zone (named after the realm of Hades, the underworld in Greek mythology), also known as the hadopelagic zone, is the deepest region of the ocean lying within oceanic trenches. The hadal zone is found from a depth of around to the bottom of the ocean, and exists in long but narrow topographic V-shaped depressions.\n\nThe cumulative area occupied by the 46 individual hadal habitats worldwide is less than 0.25 percent of the world's seafloor, yet trenches account for over 40 percent of the ocean's depth range. Most hadal habitat is found in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nHistorically the hadal zone was not recognized as distinct from the abyssal zone, although the deepest sections were sometimes called \"ultra-abyssal\". During the early 1950s, the Danish \"Galathea II\" and Russian \"Vitjaz\" expeditions separately discovered a distinct shift in the life at depths of , not recognized by the broad definition of the abyssal zone. The term \"hadal\" was first proposed in 1956 by Anton Frederik Bruun to describe the parts of the ocean deeper than , leaving abyssal for the parts at . The name refers to Hades, the ancient Greek god of the underworld. \n\nDepths in excess of are generally in ocean trenches, but there are also trenches at shallower depths. These shallower trenches lack the distinct shift in lifeforms and are therefore not hadal. Although the hadal zone has gained widespread recognition and many continue to use the first proposed limit of , it has been observed that represents a gradual transition between the abyssal and hadal zones, leading to the suggestion of placing the limit in the middle, at . Among others, this intermediate limit has been adopted by UNESCO. Similar to other depth ranges, the fauna of the hadal zone can be broadly placed into two groups: the hadobenthic species (compare benthic) living on or at the seabottom/sides of trenches and the hadopelagic species (compare pelagic) living in the open water.\n\nMarine life decreases with depth, both in abundance and biomass, but there is a wide range of metazoan organisms in the hadal zone, mostly benthos, including fish, sea cucumber, bristle worms, bivalves, isopods, sea anemones, amphipods, and gastropods. Most of these trench communities probably originated from the abyssal plains, but though they have evolved adaptations to high pressure and low temperatures, such as lower metabolism, intra-cellular protein-stabilising osmolytes, and unsaturated fatty acids in cell membrane phospholipids, there is no consistent relationship between pressure and metabolic rate in these communities. Increased pressure can instead constrain the ontogenic or larval stages of organisms. Pressure increases 10-fold as an organism moves from sea level to a depth of , whilst pressure only doubles as an organism moves from .\n\nOver a geological time scale, trenches can become accessible as fauna, previously stenobathic (limited to a narrow depth range) evolve into eurybathic (adapted to a wider range of depths), such as grenadiers and natantian prawns. Trench communities do, nevertheless, display a contrasting degree of intra-trench endemism and inter-trench similarities at a higher taxonomic level. \n\nOnly a relatively small number of fish species are known from the hadal zone, including certain grenadiers, cutthroat eels, pearlfish, cusk-eels, snailfish and eelpouts. Due to the extreme pressure, the theoretical maximum depth for vertebral fish may be about , below which teleosts would be hyperosmotic, assuming TMAO requirements follow the observed approximate linear relationship with depth. Some invertebrates (simpler organisms than the vertebrate fish) do occur deeper, such as certain Astrorhizana foraminifera, polynoid worms, myriotrochid sea cucumbers, turrid snails and pardaliscid amphipods in excess of .\n\nMost life at this depth is sustained by marine snow or the chemical reactions around thermal vents, and by metabolization of hydrogen and methane released by rock and seawater reactions (serpentinization). The low nutrient level, extreme pressure and lack of sunlight create hostile living conditions in which few species are able to exist.\n\nThe hadal zone can reach far below deep; the deepest known extends to . At such depths the pressure in the hadal zone exceeds . Lack of light and extreme pressure makes this part of the ocean difficult to explore.\n\nThe exploration of the hadal zone requires the use of instruments that are able to withstand pressures of several hundred up to a thousand or more atmospheres. Grabs, trawls, and traps have been used to collect samples of hadal organisms and sediments, however these instruments cannot be used to systematically study hadal ecology. In comparison, manned and unmanned submersibles can be used to study the depths in greater detail. Unmanned robotic submersibles may be remotely operated (connected to the research vessel by a cable) or autonomous (freely moving). Cameras and manipulators on submersibles allow researchers to observe and take samples of sediment and organisms. Failure of submersibles under the immense pressure at hadal zone depths have occurred. \"HROV Nereus\" was thought to have imploded at a depth of 9,990 meters while exploring the Kermadec Trench in 2014.\n\nThe first manned exploration to reach Challenger Deep, the deepest known part of the ocean located in the Mariana Trench, was accomplished in 1960 by Jacques Piccard and Don Walsh. They reached a maximum depth of 10,911 meters in the bathyscaphe \"Trieste\".\n\nJames Cameron also reached the bottom of Mariana Trench in March 2012 using the \"Deepsea Challenger\". The descent of the \"Deepsea Challenger\" was unable to break the deepest dive record set by Piccard and Walsh by about 100 meters, however Cameron holds the record for the deepest solo dive.\n\nIn June 2012, the Chinese manned submersible \"Jiaolong\" was able to reach 7,020 meters deep in the Mariana Trench, making it the deepest diving manned research submersible. This range surpasses that of the previous record holder, the Japanese-made \"Shinkai\", whose maximum depth is 6,500 meters.\n\nFew unmanned submersibles are capable of descending to maximum hadal depths. The deepest diving unmanned submersibles have included the \"Kaikō\" (lost at sea in 2003), the \"ABISMO\", the \"Nereus\" (lost at sea in 2014), and the \"Haidou-1\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1125089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1125089", "title": "Hans Jenny (pedologist)", "text": "Hans Jenny (pedologist)\n\nHans Jenny (7 February 1899 – 9 January 1992) was a soil scientist and expert on pedology (the study of soil in its natural environment), particularly the processes of soil formation. He served as 1949 President of the Soil Science Society of America.\n\nHans Jenny was born in Basel, Switzerland. He earned a diploma in agriculture from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich) in 1922, and a D. Sc. degree in 1927 for a thesis on ion exchange reactions.\n\nFollowing an appointment at the University of Missouri, he joined the faculty at Berkeley in 1936. International recognition came to Jenny after the 1941 publication of \"Factors of Soil Formation: A System of Quantitative Pedology\". His synthesis of field studies with the abstract formalism of physical chemistry set down the generic mathematical relationship that connects the observed properties of soil with the independent factors that determine the process of soil formation:\n\ns = f(cl, o, r, p, t, ...)\n\nwhere s - soil properties; cl - regional climate; o - potential biota, r - relief; p - parent material; t - time.\n\nJenny left the ellipsis open to indicate that there might be other variables in the function.\n\nIn \"The Soil Resource, Origin and Behaviour\" (1980), Jenny redefined the soil forming factors as state variables and extended the effects to ecosystem properties. Parent material and relief define the initial state for soil development, regional climate, and potential biota determine the rate at which chemical and biological transformations proceed, and time determines the reach of these processes, and their expression in ecosystem, soil, vegetation, and animal component properties.\n\nOne notable project was his study of the Mendocino pygmy forest, a remarkable community of ericaceous and coniferous plant species whose stunted growth and grotesquely twisted morphology reveal a long and tortured struggle for survival on a 500,000-year-old marine terrace. The University of California's Jenny Pygmy Forest Reserve is named in his honor, and is found adjacent to Van Damme State Park. Jenny did much of his pygmy forest research within the boundaries of Jug Handle State Natural Reserve, which, as a result of Hans and his wife Jean's lobbying was designated the Pygmy Forest National Natural Landmark by the National Park Service in 1974.\n\nJenny applied fundamental soil science to the problems of the day, when he wrote about \"the rosy outlook that is sweeping the nation about converting biomass to alcohol and gasohol...We are promised construction of ingenious machines that will pick up all crop residues in the fields and leaf litter and humus in the forests. The carbon and nitrogen cycles of ecosystems will be curtailed and soil stability endangered. Because of a possible climatic warm-up, we do not wish to accelerate humus oxidation and the concomitant flux of carbon dioxide from soil into the atmosphere. I am arguing against indiscriminate conversion of biomass and organic wastes to fuels. The humus capital, which is substantial, deserves being maintained because good soils are a national asset.\" \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10368068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10368068", "title": "Hawkins Bank", "text": "Hawkins Bank\n\nHawkins Bank is a large, submerged bank off the Mascarene Plateau. It is considered a dependency of Mauritius (in terms of fishing banks, much like Saya de Malha Bank, Nazareth Bank and the Soudan Banks). The bank is abundant with fish and Mauritian vessels often fish in the waters in and around the bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "28073818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28073818", "title": "Hellenic Geodetic Reference System 1987", "text": "Hellenic Geodetic Reference System 1987\n\nThe Hellenic Geodetic Reference System 1987 or HGRS87 () is a geodetic system commonly used in Greece (SRID=2100). The system specifies a local geodetic datum and a projection system. In some documents it is called \"Greek Geodetic Reference System 1987\" or \"GGRS87\".\n\nHGRS87 specifies a non-geocentric datum that is tied to the coordinates of the key geodetic station at the Dionysos Satellite Observatory (DSO) northeast of Athens (). The central pedestal (CP) at this location has by definition HGRS87 coordinates 38° 4'  33.8000\" N - 23° 55'  51.0000\"E, N = +7 m.\n\nAlthough HGRS87 uses the GRS80 ellipsoid, the origin is shifted relative to the GRS80 geocenter, so that the ellipsoidal surface is best for Greece. The specified offsets relative to WGS84 (WGS84-HGRS87) are: Δx = -199.87 m, Δy = 74.79 m, Δz = 246.62 m.\n\nThe HGRS87 datum is implemented by a first order geodetic network, which consists of approximately 30 triangulation stations throughout Greece and is maintained by the Hellenic Military Geographical Service. The initial uncertainty was estimated as 0.1 ppm (1x10). However, there are considerable tectonic movements that move parts of Greece towards different directions, causing incompatibilities between surveys taking place at different times.\n\nHGRS87 replaced an earlier \"de facto\" geodetic system. The datum of that system was based on the Bessel ellipsoid, with an accurate determination of the geodetic coordinates at the central premises of the National Observatory of Athens supplemented by an accurately measured azimuth from the objervatory to Mount Parnes. Cartographic projections for civilian use were based on the Hatt projection system, with different projection parameters for each 1:100000 map.\n\nHGRS87 also specifies a transverse Mercator cartographic projection (TM) with m=0.9996, covering six degrees of longitude either side of 24 degrees east (18-30 degrees east). This way all Greek territory (stretching to approximately 9° of longitude) is projected in one zone. References are in meters. Northings are counted from the equator. A false easting of 500000 m is assigned to the central meridian (24° east), so eastings are always positive.\n\nConversion from geographical coordinates in GRS80 to a projection in HGRS87 is supported by PROJ.4 with appropriate parameters. The conversion is performed with the following code (shell command line):\n\nWhile HGRS87 is still widely used for most civilian uses, it is partly replaced by the new Hellenic Terrestrial Reference System 2007 or HTRS07 (SRID=96758). HTRS07, which was specified for the Hellenic Positioning System (HEPOS) project, is GPS based and is compatible with European Terrestrial Reference System 1989 (ETRS89). HTRS07 is currently used for the cadastral surveys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55045026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55045026", "title": "Hyperboreae Undae", "text": "Hyperboreae Undae\n\nHyperboreae Undae (Latin: \"Far Northern Waves/Dunes\") is one of the largest and densest dune fields of Planum Boreum, the Martian North Pole. It is named after one of the classical albedo features on Mars. Its name was officially approved by IAU in 1988. It extends from latitude 77.12°N to 82.8°N and from longitude 302.92°E to 316.02°E (43.98°W – 57.08°W). Its centre is at latitude 79.96°N, longitude 49.49°W, and has a diameter of .\n\nHyperboreae Undae is southwest of the Boreum Cavus depression, an arc-like depression at the northeastern boundary of Chasma Boreale. From there, Hyperboreae Undae continues in a southwestern direction through Chasma Boreale, and into the lowlands of Vastitas Borealis. It overlays the eastern part of Hyperboreae Lingua and the region above Escorial crater.\n\nHyperboreae Undae is well known for the barchanoid and linear dunes that have formed at its location, although they are seemingly incompatible. Research has been ongoing to explain the coexistence of these types of dunes at Hyperboreae Undae and elsewhere on Mars. Another type of formation found at Hyperboreae Undae is the yardang. \n\nAlthough the dunes surrounding the Martian north pole show no signs of movement, two possible exceptions may be the dunes in parts of Abalos Undae, and the dunes of Hyperboreae Undae. In the case of Hyperboreae Undae, the dunes close to its eastern boundary appear to be buried under the Planum Boreum 3 unit. At that area, some of the dunes exhibit dark streaks that may have been caused by katabatic winds. This may indicate sand movement, due to Aeolian activity, which is recent enough to retain the streaks, otherwise these marks tend to disappear with time; other dunes do not exhibit such marks.\n\nThe dunes of Hyperboreae Undae, according to data provided by the Compact Reconnaissance Imaging Spectrometer for Mars, exhibit the weakest signature for the presence of surface ice in the area of Chasma Boreale. Hyperboreae Undae, along with Abalos and Siton Undae, contributes sand to mainly medium-density dune fields east of Olympia Undae and extending to the Martian prime meridian,\n\nImage analysis research, using the method of spectral derivatives, has indicated that Hyperboreae Undae, as well as the other dense officially-named northern circumpolar dune fields (Olympia Undae, Abalos Undae, and Siton Undae), show the highest density of gypsum in the area. A geomorphic comparison of Hyperboreae Undae with Rub' al Khali, Earth's largest contiguous dune field, has determined that the morphologies of the two ergs follow similar developmental patterns.\n\nLinear dunes form primarily in bidirectional (bimodal) wind fields. Transverse dunes, also called barchan, form when there is a unidirectional (unimodal) wind regime. A third type of dune, the star dune, is typically formed in multidirectional (multimodal) wind regimes. The presence of each of these dune forms, suggests the wind regime that produced it. Linear and star dunes are rare on Mars. The existence of both linear and barchan dunes in the same location is apparently incompatible, as that would seem to imply the co-existence of unidirectional and bidirectional winds in the same place.\n\nResearch has been undertaken to explain the coexistence of linear and barchan dunes in Hyperboreae Undae. One paper explains the change from linear to barchan dunes in adjacent locations, by proposing a wind model that changes from bidirectional to unidirectional due to the influence of local topography; it is proposed that bidirectional winds change to unidirectional due to funneling action introduced by local geomorphology. Although valid for neighbouring dune locations, this theory cannot explain how linear and barchan dunes can coexist in the same location.\n\nAnother study, proposes that the linear dunes have become crusty (indurated), and thus resistant to changing form with changing wind directions. The study also proposes that the bimodal wind direction changed with time to unidirectional, which would produce barchan-type dunes, while the preexisting indurated linear dunes, due to their hardening, would remain in place. This theory is plausible, although it cannot be easily verified, because the time profile of the wind patterns for Hyperboreae Undae would need to be recovered.\n\nA third study combines images taken by the High Resolution Imaging Science Experiment (HiRISE) camera on board the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter with the deployment of the Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter (MOLA) to obtain local coordinates of the topography shown in the HiRISE images, and then maps the HiRISE image data into a computer simulation which registers the spatial computer model of the local topography of Hyperboreae Undae in the vicinity of Boreum Cavus. From the crestline orientation of the numerical model, the local wind vectors can be computed, and the results can then be compared to the measured wind data of the area under investigation. Conversely, if the wind vectors are known, the bedform morphology can be predicted. By comparing the numerical simulation results to measured real-world data, the computer simulation parameters can be refined, leading to better convergence between numerically-predicted and field-measured results. Limitations for the computer model include the resolution limits of the numerical model, the small area under investigation, and the complexity of the local wind conditions. The numerical study obtained results that demonstrate that Hyperboreae Undae was formed under modern wind conditions and that its form, the coexistence of barchan and linear dunes, can be established by the numerical model. Further research plans include the extension of the field of study to include modelling all of Hyperboreae Undae.\n"}
{"id": "20645640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20645640", "title": "Index of French Guiana-related articles", "text": "Index of French Guiana-related articles\n\nArticles related to the French overseas department of Guiana \"(Région Guyane)\" include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27051968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27051968", "title": "Indigenous horticulture", "text": "Indigenous horticulture\n\nIndigenous horticulture is practised in various ways across all inhabited continents. Indigenous refers to the native peoples of a given area and horticulture is the practice of small-scale inter cropping.\n\nIn North Africa we look at the farming practices of the Egg on, a Nigerian hill farming community. The Egg on live in the Mada hills between Lafia and Akwanga. The hills lay between two rivers that Mada and Arikya. The altitude helps retain moisture on the hills due to early morning mists and fogs. The altitude also makes for earlier and longer crop cultivation. They practice bush fallow agriculture as well as mixed farming land management styles. They focus on growing yams, cassava, maize, beans, and African rice; much of what is produced is exported as a cash crop and is their primary source of cash income. The Egg on use a terraced agricultural system to maximize space on the hills. The goats that they raise are kept mostly for fertilizer used in farming. They are only killed on special occasions such as weddings. The Eggon use the diversity in their environment to maximize their production.\n\nIn West Africa the Kissidougou live on the savannah dotted by dense areas of “forest islands” that was created by the Kissidougou. The Kissidougou practice intercropping within the forested areas. However, they also operate farms maintained on slopes or plateaus that are located between the forest islands. They prepare the savannah lands for forestation through farming and burning of the grasses to fertilize the soils. The Kissidougou graze their cattle on the savannah to help to maintain flammable grasses around the farms and the villages. The Kissidougou create diversity in their environment by farming and transforming savannah into lush, dense forest.\n\nThe prevalence of wetlands in West Africa has helped to support local indigenous horticulture. Seasonal flooding of major rivers in the region, such as the River Niger, the Sudd and the Senegal, have made it possible for flood cropping in many areas. Indigenous people have utilized a variety of irrigation techniques in order to take advantage of seasonal flooding. Additionally, they plan their plantings and harvests specifically around the flooding of local rivers. For example, some farmers choose to plant on rising floods and harvest as the flooding diminishes. This techniques is utilized when cultivating rice.\n\nThe areas of East Africa are one of the most affected by corporate farming. In western Uganda there is a farming society called the Banyankore. Their land is part of the Ryampara hill country, that is between two flat, dry, and less populated areas of land. On the Hills the average monthly rainfall is 970mm with two short dry months in June and July and a short less severe dry month in January. Seven months out of the year the rainfall is over 1000mm per month. Their primary production are bananas and coffee, they use these as cash crops. Farmers still use substantial areas for millet farming. This is their main food crop. They have intensive home gardens to produce for the families needs and the outlying farming is used mostly for the cash crop production where coffee and banana are cultivated using inter cropping methods.\n\nIn Southern Africa the conglomerate farming companies has primarily written off the lands in Northwest Zambia. The land is mostly made of plateaus with lowers lands in the Kabompo and Zambezi river valleys. Much of the area is in the Congo–Zambezi watershed, the area of land where all water runs into the same river basin. The land has several types of soil. There are areas of yellow clay with higher concentrations of sand where higher rain falls causes soil erosion and makes farming in those areas difficult. There are also areas with fertile red clay that are rich soils good for cultivation of crops. Farmers in the area grow sorghum, millet, sweet potatoes, pumpkin and maize. There is marginal maize production that is used as a cash crop for the community. The area is usually covered by thick forestation that must be cleared before crops can be cultivated, they do not practice agroforestry. Traditionally spouses must maintain their own gardens. The produce is shared communally but the practice leads to intensive home gardens that are maintained by the women of the villages.\n\nThe Enga of the Western Highlands Province in New Guinea receive most of their food from growing sweet potatoes Ipomoea batatas which they plant in mulch mounds at elevations up to 2,700m or higher (Dove and Carpenter 2008). The mounds that the Enga make to plant their crops of potatoes are formed from by piling large amounts of grass taken from fallow, or unplanted, plots then by covering the grass with dirt (Wohlt 2004). The size of the mounds depends on elevation; the higher the elevation; the bigger the mounds will be. Mounds above 2,500m in altitude can have a height of 0.85m in height; while crops below 1,500m are not mounded at all (Dove and Carpenter 2008). The function of the mound is to protect the crops from the frequent frosts that occur at the high altitudes of the Enga. With sweet potatoes having a very long maturation period, 9 months, the Enga also invest their time and space on the mounds with planting other crops that have much shorter maturation periods such as peas in case a heavy frost does claim the crop (Wohlt 2004).\n\nThe planting of the mounds is done so that the plants which have a higher frost tolerance, such as the Irish potatoes, are planted casually throughout the mound and the low tolerant sweet potatoes are planted in the best position to avoid the frost. Peas, beans, and cabbage which are all highly tolerant to frost will be planted outside the circle of sweet potatoes and lower on the mound placing them closer to the cold temperatures of the ground (Dove and Carpenter 2008). The Enga practice fallow rotation where a garden will in crop for about four years followed by about four years of fallow grassland to let the soil replenish (Wohlt 2004).\n\nGarden size for an average Enga garden is about 0.21 hectare or about 2,100 square meters and can contain a few hundred mounds (Wohlt 2004). Another gardening strategy the Enga have implemented is the use of kin lands that are usually within one to two days walk from the farmers normal planting grounds (Dove and Carpenter 2008). The uses of multiple gardens at differing elevation and the ability access clan lands in different areas for gardening have allowed the Enga to adapt to their environment and survive under harsh conditions.\n\nSwidden cultivation is an extensive agriculture practice that is also known as slash-and-burn agriculture. The process is extensive because it requires a vast amount of land divided into several plots with one plot planted for a period of years, while the other plots lay fallow for a number of years (Hyde 2010).\n\nFor the Bine-speaking peoples of the New Guinea lowlands swidden cultivation is a main practice for crop propagation. The main crop the Bine grow is the taro root, although they grow about 15 subsidiary crops including: sweet potato, banana, manioc, maize, yam, pawpaw, sugar cane, pineapple, and others (Eden 1993). The swiddens which can be placed in either savannas or forests are created by cutting down all the vegetation in the area that the swidden will be. The farmers then pile all of the cut vegetation on the swidden plot and leave it to dry out through the dry season (Hyde 2010). Right before the wet season begins the piles are burned and the soil and ash are tilled together (Eden 1993). The process of tilling the soil and ash mixes the carbon and nitrogen rich ash into the soil thereby fertilizing the soil for the coming crop. After the soil is tilled the crops are planted.\n\nThere are two planting years for a single swidden for the Bine farmers. In the first year the Bine plant primary taro root with a few subsidiary crops like bananas and sweet potatoes. In the second year taro root makes up about 50 percent of the swidden and the rest of the swidden is mixed with about 15 other plants. After the second year the Bine farmers move on to an adjacent swidden and allow the previous swidden to lay fallow or unplanted for a period of 5 to 10 years in order to repopulate the vegetation (Eden 1993). The number of years that a swidden will lay fallow is determined by the plants demand for the nitrogen in the soil. Some plants will leach the soil of nitrogen in a few years and require four or five times that fallow; while other plants can be planted for many years and lay fallow only one or two times the planting period (Hyde 2010). Swidden cultivation requires a lot of land in order to feed only a few people, but the Bine, whose numbers are low, make good uses of their land through swidden farming.\n\nFor most South Pacific Island cultures the main subsistence techniques are hunting and gathering. Fishing and the gathering of sago, banana, and other tropical foods are the norm with very little organized agriculture. The Tabalu of Kiriwina located in the Trobriand Islands practice a form of agriculture called Kaylu’ebila, a form of garden magic (Malinowski 1965). The main crop for the Tabalu is the yam and there is a definite division of labour according to sex when it comes to gardening. Heavy work is done by the men and it includes clearing the vegetation, caring the yam supports, and planting the yam tubers in the ground (Malinowski 1987). The women aid by weeding the gardens.\n\nGardening for the Tabalu is a very long and in depth magical process; with special magicians and magical ingredients which have been handed down from family member to family member over time. Garden fields which are called Kwabila are fenced in on all sides to keep out the swine that are breed by the Tabalu. Kwabila are then divided into many smaller plots called baleko, these are the individual gardens that the crops will be planted in (Malinowski 1965).\n\nSouth America consists of modern-day Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Suriname, Brazil, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Argentina, and Chile. South America has historically been a land exploited not only for its natural resources, but also for its indigenous knowledge and labor force. The environmental diversification of South America has been at the foundation of its presence in the global economy as a resource for agriculture, forestry, fishing, hunting, livestock, mining and quarrying.\n\nSouth America can be seen as cultural regions inhabited by marginal tribes, tropical forest tribes, and the circum-Caribbean tribes each with its own distinct way of agricultural cultivation (Lyon 1974:6). South America's geographic regions are inhabited by regional tribes which include; the Chocó in the Northern Columbian area, The Kayapo in the Eastern Para area, the Chono in the Southern Fuegian area, and the Quechuas in the Western Peruvian area, (Lyon 1974:24). Each of these regions has adapted not only their own cultural identity and agricultural style,\n\nThe Eastern region of South America is known as the Para area in what is now Brazil, and has for millennia been home to the tropical forest Kayapớ tribe. The Kayapớ lived in sedentary villages and were proficient in pottery and loom-weaving, yet they did not domesticate animals or poses knowledge on metallurgy. These Tropical forest Tribes can be characterized through their farming, dugout canoes, woven baskets, loom weaving, and pole and thatch houses (Posey 2002)\n\nIn the Para area the Kayapớ like most tribes of this region practiced intensive agriculture or clearing cultivation. Beginning their agricultural year with a low water season intensifies fishing. The low water season is then followed by the high water season or harvest season. It is during this harvest season that the Kayapớ are able to exercise their leisure time before the cycle ends with (low water levels) and a return to intense fishing. Each changing season commences ceremonies for the Kayapớ that are directly tied to agriculture, hunting, or fishing. Unlike the Chocó the Kayapớ used an agricultural method known as the slash-burn method (shifting agriculture). The Kayapớ cut the forest in April to September (dry season) and time their burns just before the raining season. The Kayapớ used circular plots for agricultural cultivation consisting of five rings (characterized as cultivation zones). The first circle or the inner circle was used for taro and sweet potatoes that thrive in the hotter soil found in the center of the plot. The second circle cultivated maize, manioc, and rice an area that needed various ash enrichment treatments and would experience short term growth. The third zone was an area of rich soil and best served mixed crops including the banana, urucu, papaya. The fourth zones consists of shade loving plants and are for a medical purpose, yet evidence of beans and yams have been also found here. The fifth zone or the outer ring was left as a protective zone that included trap animals protective insects and birds (Posey 2002). This form of agriculture requires not only intense physical labor but also requires a knowledge of not only the land, but various types of ground cover, shades and temperatures of local soils, as well as cloud formations to time careful burning . When the Kayapớ manage their agricultural plots they must work with a variety of interacting factors including the background soil fertility, the heterogeneous quality of ash and its distribution, crop nutrient requirements, cropping cycles, management requirements, and pest and disease control clearly illustrating the common misconception that this form of agriculture is primitive and ineffiecnet (Posey 2002).\n\nIt has often been thought that the slash-burn plots are abandoned after one or two years because of un productive soil, but this is a common misconception. The Kayapớ revisit abandoned fields because plants can offer direct and indirect benefits. One direct benefit would be the ability to eat that which has been produced and an indirect benefit would be that open fields allow attract game for hunting and can produce long after they have been tended (Posey 2002).\n\nThe Southern region of South America is known as the Fuegian area and is occupied by the Chono, Alacaluf and Yahgan . These Marginal tribes differed greatly from the other regions in that they were expert in making bark or plank canoes and domesticating dogs, hunting, fishing and gathering. Nomads with simple socio-religious patterns, yet completely lacked the technology of pottery, loom-weaving, metallurgy and even agriculture . Since there was a lack of agriculture in this region the Chono ate native berries, roots, fruits, and wild celery . The source of nutrition for the Chono, Yahgans, and Alcaaluf thus mainly consisted of sea food such as; whales, seal porpoises, guanacos, and otters . The Southern tribes of South America distinguished themselves not in having a rare form of agriculture like the North’s slush-mush method or the having intensive agriculture like the East’s sophisticated slash-burn method, yet were able to distinguished themselves in being absent of this trait .\n\nFarming methods developed by Native Americans include terracing, irrigation, mound building, crop rotation and fertilization. They also used extensive companion planting (see the Three Sisters).\n\nTerracing is an effective technique in a steep-sloped, semi-arid climate. The Indigenous farmers stair-stepped the hills so that soil erosion was minimal and land surface was better suited for farming. In the Southwest, including parts of New Mexico, Arizona, and parts of Northern Mexico, terracing was extensive. Terraces were constructed by placing rock dams to redirect runoff water to canals that evenly dispersed rain water. The terraced field transformed the terrain into land suitable for farming maize (Keoke and Porterfield 2005, pg. 56). There is evidence that terracing has been used in the Southwest for about 2,500 years. The Anasazi people from this region built reservoirs and directed rain water through ditches to water the crops in the terraces. The natives grew corn, squash, and beans, along with other crops in the terraced fields.\n\nCorn, squash, and beans were staple crops for Native Americans and were grown throughout much of the North American continent. This trio is known as the Three sisters. Ancient folklore belief says that the Three Sisters represented three goddesses. Each sister protected the other two, and therefore the Three Sisters were never be separated and instead be planted, cooked, and consumed together. In reality, This Triad was an example of symbiotic planting. The corn stalks functioned as a support for the beans. The beans fixed nitrogen into a usable form for the corn and squash, and the broad squash leaves provided shade for the soil, which aided in preventing evaporation and controlling weeds(Kowtko 2006, 54). As the success of the Three Sisters spread, many cultures turned away from hunting and gathering and relied much more on farming (Kowtko 2006, 55). Geographically native cultures in the Woodlands, Prairie, Plains, Great Basin, and Plateau regions of North America all utilized the Three Sisters to some extent. Where they were not grown, the locals traded for them (Berzok 2005, 9). Nomadic tribes, such as the Dakotas, would trade meat for these vegetable staples. The Three Sisters were usually eaten in unison, as they provide fairly balanced nutrition when consumed together(for example, beans and corn together provide a complete set of the essential amino acids).\n\nNative American farmers also employed irrigation. This technique was utilized throughout much of the Southwest and is useful where water is scarce. Irrigation was and is still used today throughout much of the world. Native Americans controlled the amount of water that reached their fields by building long irrigation canals to redirect water from a source to water their crops. The Hohokam people constructed about 600 miles of irrigation canals from AD 50 to 1450 near Phoenix, Arizona (Berzok 2005, 51). Part of the canal is used by the City of Phoenix today. The Olmecs of Mesoamerica built canals over 4,000 years ago.\n\nChinampas, artificial islands constructed in swamplands and lakes, were invented by Mayan farmers and the technique became used extensively throughout Mesoamerica and was later used by the Aztecs as part of the land reclamation process of the city of Tenochtitlan. This technique increases arable land, and provided additional farming plots the population of Mesoamerica grew (Keoke and Porterfield 2005, 60).\n\nIn the Northeast Woodlands and the Great Lakes region, an advanced society known as the Moundbuilders emerged (Berzok 2005, 13). This society lived in the flood plains of the Mississippi river basin. This culture farmed mainly maize. They had little need for foraging and grew to an advanced civilization due to food surplus. They were the largest civilization north of the Rio Grande.\n\nNative Americans also developed storage systems such as storage containers which allowed them to store seeds to plant during the next planting season. They also stored food in dug-out pits or holes in hillsides. Native Americans developed corn cribs. These were storage bins that were elevated off the ground. This technique prevented moisture and animal intrusion (Berzok 2005, 122-123).\n\nSelective crop breeding was also employed. Corn is a domestic plant and cannot grow on its own. The first corn grown by Native Americans had small ears, and only produced a few kernels per ear. By 2,000 years ago, single stalks with large ears were being produced (Keoke and Porterfield 2005, 55). Native Americans created over 700 varieties of corn by 1500 AD.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "484205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484205", "title": "International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse Authorities", "text": "International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse Authorities\n\nThe International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse Authorities (IALA, previously known as International Association of Lighthouse Authorities) is an Intergovernmental organization founded in 1957 to collect and provide nautical expertise and advice.\n\nIALA brings together representatives of the aids to navigation services of about 80 countries for technical coordination, information sharing, and coordination of improvements to aids to navigation throughout the world. It was established in 1957 to provide a permanent organization to support the goals of the Technical Lighthouse Conferences, which had been convening since 1929. The General Assembly of IALA meets about every 4 years. The Council of 24 members meets twice a year to oversee the ongoing programs.\n\nFour committees maintain work programs established for four year periods:\n\nIALA committees provide important documentation to the International Hydrographic Organization and other international organizations, while the IALA Secretariat acts as a clearing house for the exchange of technical information, and organizes seminars and technical support for developing countries.\n\nIts principal work since 1973 has been the implementation of the IALA Maritime Buoyage System. This system replaced some 30 dissimilar buoyage systems in use throughout the world with 2 major systems. This rationalised system was introduced as a result of two accidents in the Dover Straits in 1971 when the \"Brandenburg\" hit the wreck of the \"Texaco Caribbean\" off Folkestone and sank although the wreck was accurately buoyed. A short while later the \"Niki\" also struck the \"Texaco Caribbean\" and sank, despite the wreckage being adequately marked. The combined loss of lives in these two accidents was 51 persons.\n\nAlthough the international agreement of 1982 implementing a harmonized buoyage system is a major achievement for IALA the Organization, through its committees carried out a lot of works in other directions resulting in innovating techniques being adopted all over the work, such as the AIS (Automatic Identification System), DGNSS (Differential Global Navigation System) and many others.\n\nIts future achievement is likely to be the implementation of the e-navigation. e-navigation does not aim at ships being electronically operated but gathering and displaying all navigation information through connected sources of information and harmonized data exchange.\n\nIALA is based near Paris in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France.\n\nIALA is primarily known for the IALA Maritime Buoyage Systems or sea mark systems that are used in the pilotage of vessels at sea:\n\nEach type of mark has a distinctive colour, shape and possibly a characteristic light.\n\nThe IALA Maritime Buoyage System defines two regions in the world: IALA region A and IALA region B. Region B covers the whole of the Americas, Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, while the rest of the world belongs to the region A.\n\nThe text of \"Background\" section of this article originated from section 125 of the \"American Practical Navigator\", a document produced by the government of the United States of America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14762495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14762495", "title": "International regulation", "text": "International regulation\n\nInternational regulation is regulation that occurs at the international level, often exercised by international organizations. An advantage of international regulation is that it allows localities and the individuals in them to be held accountable for the impact of their actions (e.g. pollution) have on other localities.\n"}
{"id": "1019079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019079", "title": "Kristianstad", "text": "Kristianstad\n\nKristianstad (, older spelling \"Christianstad\") is a city and the seat of Kristianstad Municipality, Skåne County, Sweden with 40,145 inhabitants in 2016. During the last 15 years, it has gone from a garrison town to a developed commercial city, today attracting visitors in the summertime mainly from Germany, Denmark and The Netherlands. \n\nThe city was founded in 1614 by King Christian IV of Denmark, the city's name literally means 'Town of Christian', as a planned city after the burning of the nearby town of Vä and moving the city rights of the neighbouring town of Sölvesborg and Åhus to the new town. The purpose of the town was to safeguard the eastern half of the Danish province of Scania against any future raids from Sweden in the north, but also as a symbol of the power of Christian himself. One of these raids had sacked the nearby town of Vä in 1612. Vä then lost its charter and the people were moved to the new, better fortified city. The king also founded the town of Christianopel in eastern Blekinge to serve a similar purpose.\n\nConstruction of the towns was a great prestige project for the king, and Kristianstad's church (; ) is considered by many to be one of the most beautiful buildings constructed by King Christian IV, or even northern Europe's most beautiful Renaissance church. This meant that the church was built considerably larger than there was initially use for. The king also wanted castle or fortress constructed inside the town but shortage of funds made this impossible, of the intendend castle only an arsenal was constructed which today serves as the main building of the local museum. Also in Christianstad the town planning of the Renaissance could be laid down for the first time at the foundation of the town. This makes the Kristianstad town centre of today exceptionally well-kept and easy to get around in.\n\nPylyp Orlyk was after 1709 chosen as a Hetman in exile by the cossacks and the Swedish king Charles XII. While in Bender Orlyk wrote one of the first state constitutions in Europe. This Constitution of Pylyp Orlyk was confirmed by Charles XII and it also names him as \"the protector of Ukraine\". After 1714 Orlyk now together with several other cossacks followed the Swedish king Charles XII to Sweden. Orlyk with his family and about 40 other Cossacks arrived in Ystad, Sweden in late November 1715. After some months in Ystad they lived in the city of Kristianstad for some years. Orlyk wrote numerous proclamations and essays about Ukraine including the 1710 Constitution of Pylyp Orlyk.\nThe city's coat of arms depicts two lions holding the King Christian IV's crowned insignia, the monogram C4. The coat of arms was only slightly modified after the Swedish takeover following the 1658 Treaty of Roskilde in which the eastern third of Denmark was ceded to Sweden. The coat of arms is very similar to the coat of arms of the former town of Christianopel in eastern Blekinge, a town also founded by Christian IV. Since 1971, the coat of arms is used by Kristianstad Municipality. Kristianstad's coat of arms is one of the few coat of arms in the world depicting a foreign king's or queen's coat of arms. A reason for the Swedes to continue using the old coat of arms could be its colours – blue and yellow.\n\nThe city served as capital of Kristianstad County between 1719 and 1997. It now houses the administration and the regional parliament of the Skåne Regional Council. For a long time Kristianstad also was a very important garrison town, the A3 Wendes Artillery Regiment and the P6 South Scanian Infantry Regiment being the towns most prominent military units. Also the town housed for many years the so-called Scanian Fortification Brigade. The Wendes Artillery Regiment served with distinction in the Napoleonic Wars. One of Sweden's higher courts of appeal was located in Kristianstad before being moved to Malmö in 1917.\n\nSweden's lowest point, at 2.41 meters below mean sea level, is located in Kristianstad. Because of this, parts of the city have to be protected from flooding by a system of levees and water pumps. To expand the city, large areas of low-lying wetlands have had to be walled in, especially to the east. To prevent future flooding of the city center, the existing levees are in the process of being reinforced and new levees against both Helge å and Hammarsjön are under construction. An extensive system of ponds and dams is also under construction. The threat of flooding became substantial during late winter 2002, when the greater part of the public park Tivoliparken was under water. However, the wetlands around the city are starting to be regarded more as an asset, not least thanks to the creation of Kristianstads Vattenrike Biosphere Reserve. Today the Vattenriket is a Unesco biosphere reserve.\n\nKristianstad straddles the line between an oceanic climate (\"Cfb\") and a humid continental climate (\"Dfb\") typical of southern Sweden. The marine influence is greater during winter, a season that averages above the freezing point. Summers are warm and comparatively long by Swedish standards.\n\nKristianstad has by now crossed a vital threshold, as the city and adjacent municipality, with a population of 80,000, in essence use no oil, natural gas or coal to warm homes and businesses, even throughout the extensive chilly winters. It is an absolute turnaround from 20 years ago, when all of its heating came from fossil fuels.\n\nAbsolut Vodka, owned by Pernod Ricard, is produced by the town of Åhus located within the municipality. Kristianstad was the main military seat in Scania for a long time, boosting military camps and trainings. After the reforms and military cutbacks of the 1990s all of these have been closed, although a new military presence is being established in nearby Rinkaby which holds an old military training ground. Also in and around Kristianstad are numerous enterprises concerned with agriculture and it is usually said that every Swede everyday eats something produced from Kristianstad. At the old garrison ground for the P6 South Scanian Infantry Regiment (later mechanized) there is today the local Kristianstad University which is specialized in educating teachers and nurses.\n\nThe Swedish Film industry (Svensk Filmindustri) commenced its activities in Kristianstad in the 1910s, before moving to Stockholm in 1920. Today the old studio is a museum.\n\nThe 2011 World Scout Jamboree was held near Rinkaby, in Kristianstad municipality. Also every summer there is a huge beachhandboll tournament in Åhus.\n\n\nKristianstad has eight sister cities: \n\n\nBrew, Margit \"Scandinavian footprints: a history of Scandinavians settling in New Zealand\" Auckland, NZ: M.Brew, c2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "516173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=516173", "title": "Lake Makgadikgadi", "text": "Lake Makgadikgadi\n\nLake Makgadikgadi was a paleolake that existed in what is now the Kalahari Desert in Botswana from 2,000,000 years BP to 10,000 years BP. It may have once covered an area of from 80,000 km² to 275,000 km² and was 30 m deep . The Okavango, Upper Zambezi, and Cuando rivers once all emptied into the lake. Its remains are seen in the Makgadikgadi salt pans , one of the largest salt pans in the world. \n\nThe name Makgadikgadi is derived from the same root as the name for the desert Kalahari, meaning a dry thirsty place in the languages of the San people.\n\nApproximately 3 million years ago, strong easterly winds formed long dunes which ran from east to west across the middle of the Kalahari Desert. During wetter times, these dunes channeled the great rivers of the area, the Okavango, Chobe, and Upper Zambezi, south eastwards to join with the Limpopo River and drain into the Indian Ocean.\n\nNorthern Botswana has a series of deep, underlying fault lines running beneath its sands. These faults are thought to be the southernmost extensions of the same system of parallel fault lines that are pulling away from each other and have formed East Africa's Great Rift Valley. Parts of the courses of both the Linyanti River and Chobe River, mark the lie of these faults today .\n\nApproximately 2 million years ago, the fault known as the Ovamboland-Kalahari-Zimbabwe axis (which runs from NE to SW from Harare through Bulawayo and ends in the east side of the Kalahari) moved in an epeirogenic flexure, and cut off the drainage route into the Limpopo. The blockage created an enormous basin and forced these rivers to flow into and fill it up. Lake Makgadikgadi was thus created.\n\nThe great Magwikwe Sand Ridge between Savuti and North Gate, probably defined one of its northwestern shorelines. Another is thought to have been the less obvious Gidikwe Sand Ridge, which lies just to the west of the western border of the present Makgadikgadi National Park.\n\nWave washed features can be found on several of the Kalahari's higher places in this region. The eastern side of the Gchoha Hills, north of Savuti, are a particularly clear example of this. Round water eroded pebbles can also be found.\n\nAs the millennia passed, the lake filled to capacity and it began to overflow about 20,000 years ago taking the lowest point in the watershed in the north east as its new outlet. This caused the middle and lower Zambezi Rivers to connect, forming the Victoria Falls. With the water now able to flow out of the basin, Lake Makgadikgadi drained partially and its average level decreased.\n\nA drier climatic period followed which increased evaporation and decreased the flow of the rivers that fed the lake. By about 10,000 years ago the drying of Lake Makgadikgadi was in an advanced stage. Sediment and debris from the Okavango River and windblown sand were gradually filling the lake.\n\nThe Gumare fault formed and lowered the land. As a result, the water of the Okavango River spread out over a much larger area of land than it previously did, forming the now characteristic fan-shaped inland delta of the Okavango, which further reduced the water that flowed into Lake Makgadikgadi and hastened its demise.\n\nLake Makgadikgadi is theorized to have been the birthplace of the vast number of cichlids that once swam the Congo River, Zambezi River, Okavango River and Limpopo River - as many as 100 to 400 new species, of which approximately 25 survive today. The lake's sheer size may have provided the ancestors of these fish with an extremely wide range of new ecological niches to exploit and thus could have served as the stimulus for the evolution of the new species, which they may have done in record time before the lake drained completely. The theory further says that the new species, after having evolved within the confines of the lake, could have escaped with the lakewater as it drained, and populated the rivers of the region to evolve into the cichlids that exist today.\n\nIn current times this land is desiccated most of the year and is a seasonal wetland in the rainy summer months. \n\nToday the only remains of Lake Makgadikgadi are the Okavango Delta, the Nxai Pan, Lake Ngami, Lake Xau, the Mababe Depression, and the two main Makgadikgadi pans: the Sua Pan and the Nwetwe Pan.\n\nThe Makgadikgadi Salt Pans are among the largest in the world and are formed from the last remnants of this great lake. The Okavango Delta is a very large, swampy inland delta formed where the Okavango River reaches the former bed of the lake. It is now an endorheic basin in which all the water reaching the basin is ultimately evaporated and transpired,\n\nThe other south draining rivers that once fed the lake have now all been captured by the Zambezi River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7935422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7935422", "title": "Legal nullity", "text": "Legal nullity\n\nLegal nullity refers to any entity which theoretically is, or might be, of some legal significance, but in fact lacks any identity or distinct structure of its own.\n\nThe usual examples are counties (or equivalent sub-regional groupings) which are wholly subsumed by the municipal government within their boundaries.\n\nSome entities which fit this description are Philadelphia County, a legal nullity because it is entirely coterminous with the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and New York County, which is similarly coterminous with the Borough of Manhattan, in New York City (as are each of the Five Boroughs of New York City).\n\nThese areas are of relatively little legal import, since there is a generally agreed overarching legal coverage. The issue is of greater significance when a significant power is technically under the overarching body's power but has been external from that control for so long that it is generally accepted as to have little consequence. Kosovo is one particular case, as from many country's viewpoints, it doesn't exist as a country. However it has a well-established legal system without any other party effectively stating control over the region (and no likelihood of that changing in the anticipated future). For the 80 countries that don't recognise its independence, but wish to participate with the country (trade, security etc), then functioning with Kosovo's legal system is necessary. This means functionally ignoring a legal system of significance, from their point of view. The same can be said of several other long-disputed \"de-facto\" States, where necessity drives rejecting the participation of a legally significant legal system. \n\nLegal nullity is also a court decision made without jurisdiction or authority. Such a decision does not have to be vacated or appealed, it is void from inception.\n"}
{"id": "31724742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31724742", "title": "List of LTE networks", "text": "List of LTE networks\n\nThis is a list of commercial Long-Term Evolution (LTE) networks around the world, grouped by their frequency bands.\n\nSome operators use multiple bands and are therefore listed multiple times in respective sections.\n\n\nNote: This list of network deployments does not imply any widespread deployment or national coverage.\n\n\"See List of LTE networks in Africa.\"\n\nApart from their main spectrum holdings across large regions in the country (listed below) the major US carriers (AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile & Verizon) also hold various Cellular Market Area (CMA) and/or Economic Area (EA) licenses for the AWS 1700 band, as well as Major Trading Area (MTA) and/or Basic Trading Area (BTA) licenses for the PCS 1900 band. In several small regional areas the named operators combine these with their major spectrum holdings to increase the bandwidth for their LTE deployments. Due to the large amount of these \"single\" licenses they are not listed here.\n\nCanada: Bell Network Availability within Tier 3 License Areas\n\n\"See List of LTE networks in Asia.\"\n\n\"See List of LTE networks in Europe.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5898736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5898736", "title": "List of New York City manhole cover abbreviations", "text": "List of New York City manhole cover abbreviations\n\nThis is a list of manhole cover markings found in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "50710234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50710234", "title": "List of Ukrainian toponyms that were changed as part of decommunization in 2016", "text": "List of Ukrainian toponyms that were changed as part of decommunization in 2016\n\nAccording to the Law of Ukraine No. 317-VIII \"About condemning Communist and National-Socialist (Nazi) totalitarian regimes in Ukraine and banning propaganda of their symbols\", names of over 3% of populated places in Ukraine are subjected to change.\n\n\nStatus of populated places:\n\nNote: names of administrative units to which are subordinated other administrative units or populated places indicated as of 1 January 2016.\n\nSince the regions' names in Ukraine are prescribed in the Constitution, renaming changes should be made to the Constitution first.\nSome districts are still pending changes under the Law that (as of 3 June 2016) :\n\nAs of November 2018, Autonomous Republic of Crimea is still occupied by Russian Federation.\n\nThe Ministry of Temporarily Occupied Territories and Internally displaced persons () is a government ministry in Ukraine that was officially established on 20 April 2016 to manage occupied parts of Donetsk, Luhansk and Crimea regions affected by Russian military intervention of 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8802694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8802694", "title": "List of airports in French Polynesia", "text": "List of airports in French Polynesia\n\nThis is a list of airports in French Polynesia, sorted by location.\n\nFrench Polynesia () is an overseas territory (\"territoire d'outre-mer\" or \"TOM\") of France with the particular designation of overseas country (\"pays d'outre-mer\" or \"POM\") in the southern Pacific Ocean. It is made up of several groups of Polynesian islands, the most famous island being Tahiti in the Society Islands group, which is also the most populous island, and the seat of the capital of the territory (Papeete).\n\nICAO location identifiers are linked to each airport's Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP), which are available online in Portable Document Format (PDF) from the French \"Service d'information aéronautique\" (SIA). Locations shown in bold are as per the airport's AIP page. Most airports give two locations: the first is the city served, second is the city where the airport is located.\n\nAirport names shown in bold have scheduled commercial airline service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7762915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7762915", "title": "List of flags of Peru", "text": "List of flags of Peru\n\nThis is a list of flags used in or otherwise associated with Peru. For further information, you can review \"Flag of Peru\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11365470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11365470", "title": "List of mammals of French Polynesia", "text": "List of mammals of French Polynesia\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in French Polynesia. There are twelve mammal species in French Polynesia, of which none are critically endangered, two are endangered, one is vulnerable, and none are near-threatened.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13602656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13602656", "title": "List of national border changes from 1815 to 1914", "text": "List of national border changes from 1815 to 1914\n\nThe list of national border changes from 1815 to 1914, refers to the changes in international borders since the end of the Napoleonic Wars until World War I. For border changes from 1914 to present, see List of national border changes since World War I. Internationally, this period saw the fall of Spanish colonial empire to the United States and the steady progression of European colonial efforts. This period saw the reshaping of Europe with the rise of Germany and Italy as unified states while the Ottoman Empire's territory in Europe steadily dissolved. This period was one of continued colonization of Africa during the age of New Imperialism. In Asia, the Mughal Empire of present-day India, Afghanistan and Pakistan fell to the British while the French colonized Indochina. In North America the United States as well as the new nation of Canada expanded their territories to largely what is their present-day boundaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17932216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17932216", "title": "List of royal tours of Canada (18th–20th centuries)", "text": "List of royal tours of Canada (18th–20th centuries)\n\nThere was an extended royal presence in Canada through the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, either as an official tour, a vacation, a period of military service, or a viceregal posting by a member of the Royal Family. Originally, official tours were events predominantly for Canadians to see and possibly meet members of their Royal Family, with the associated patriotic pomp and spectacle. However, nearing the end of the 20th century, such occasions took on the added dimension of a theme, and junior members of the Royal Family began to undertake unofficial \"working\" tours of Canada as well; in this method, royal figures are invited by provinces, municipalities, and other organizations to events which the latter fund without assistance from the federal government. The Prince of Wales, The Princess Royal, The Duke of York and The Prince Edward, have all made several small tours in this fashion. These arrangements then continued on into the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "844202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844202", "title": "List of rulers of Herat", "text": "List of rulers of Herat\n\nList of Afghan Rulers in present-day Afghanistan with capital at Herat \n"}
{"id": "234082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234082", "title": "Lower Egypt", "text": "Lower Egypt\n\nLower Egypt ( \"\") is the northernmost region of Egypt: the fertile Nile Delta, between Upper Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea — from El Aiyat, south of modern-day Cairo, and Dahshur.\n\nIn ancient times, Pliny the Elder (N.H. 5.11) said that upon reaching the delta the Nile split into seven branches (from east to west): the Pelusiac, the Tanitic, the Mendesian, the Phatnitic, the Sebennytic, the Bolbitine, and the Canopic. Today there are two principal channels that the Nile takes through the river's delta: one in the west at Rashid and one in the east at Damietta.\n\nThe delta region is well watered, crisscrossed by channels and canals.\n\nThe climate in Lower Egypt is milder than that of Upper Egypt owing primarily to its proximity to the Mediterranean Sea. Temperatures are less extreme and rainfall is more abundant.\n\nLower Egypt was known as \"Ta-Mehu\" which means \"land of papyrus.\" It was divided into twenty districts called nomes, the first of which was at el-Lisht. Because Lower Egypt was mostly undeveloped scrubland, undeveloped for human life and filled with all types of plant life such as grasses and herbs, the organization of the nomes underwent several changes.\n\nThe capital of Lower Egypt was Memphis. Its patron Goddess was the cobra goddess Wadjet. Lower Egypt was represented by the Low Red Crown \"Deshret\", and its symbols were the papyrus and the bee.\n\nBy about 3600 BC, neolithic Egyptian societies along the Nile River had based their culture on the raising of crops and the domestication of animals. Shortly after 3600 BC Egyptian society began to grow and advance rapidly toward refined civilization. A new and distinctive pottery, which was related to the pottery in the Southern Levant, appeared during this time. Extensive use of copper became common during this time. The Mesopotamian process of sun-dried bricks, and architectural building principles—including the use of the arch and recessed walls for decorative effect—became popular during this time.\n\nConcurrent with these cultural advances, a process of unification of the societies and towns of the upper Nile River, or Upper Egypt, occurred. At the same time the societies of the Nile Delta, or Lower Egypt also underwent a unification process. Warfare between Upper and Lower Egypt occurred often. During his reign in Upper Egypt, King Narmer defeated his enemies on the Delta and merged both the Kingdom of Upper and Lower Egypt under his single rule.\n\nThe Palermo stone, a royal annal written in the mid Fifth Dynasty (c. 2490 BC – c. 2350 BC) records a number of kings reigning over Lower Egypt before Narmer. These are completely unattested outside these inscriptions:\nIn contrast the following kings are attested through archeological finds from Sinai and Lower Egypt: Double Falcon, Crocodile.\n\n"}
{"id": "636978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636978", "title": "Mainland Finland", "text": "Mainland Finland\n\nMainland Finland (, ) is a term used in statistics and in other contexts to describe the continental parts of Finland, an area which excludes the Åland Islands. In legal contexts, the relation between the mainland and Åland is depicted by the word pair \"the State–Åland\" (, ).\n\nThe term \"mainland Finland\" is significant in the context of legal differences between Åland and mainland Finland, and in the context of differences of culture, language, history, and self-perceived nationhood between the Ålanders and the Swedish-speaking Finns in mainland Finland. However, since the population of Åland is only about 0.5% of that of mainland Finland, and below 10% of that of the Swedish-speaking Finns in mainland Finland, there are many instances when this distinction is ignored.\n\nIn a geographical sense the term \"mainland Finland\" can be used to exclude Finland's other sea islands, but when distinguishing between Åland and the rest of Finland, the term encompasses those islands.\n"}
{"id": "25963820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25963820", "title": "Mario Giovinetto", "text": "Mario Giovinetto\n\nMario Giovinetto (born 1933, La Plata, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina) is an Argentine glaciologist, climatologist, and geographer. He is a Canadian citizen with permanent resident status in the US.\n\nDr. Giovinetto was active in polar research beginning in 1952. He participated in projects supported by the National Science Foundation (US) and other federal research agencies in Argentina and Canada. His field work experience includes three expeditions to high-mountain glaciers in the Andes Mountains (South America) and in Africa (1952–1955), winter stays at two Antarctic stations (Byrd Station, 1957 and South Pole Station, 1958), and nine summer-seasons in Antarctica and Greenland (1953–1978). He has logged more than 2000 miles of over-snow traverse, made observations at a number of sea-ice and iceberg sites, and spent approximately nine years as a member of small isolated teams working in demanding environments. His glaciology and climatology research was done while affiliated with the Instituto Antartico Argentino (Buenos Aires; 1953–1956), Arctic Institute of North America (New York; 1956–1959), Institute of Polar Studies (now Byrd Polar Research Center), Ohio State University (Columbus); 1959–1961, and the Geophysical and Polar Research Center, University of Wisconsin (Madison; 1961–1968).\n\nHis research led to estimates of mass and energy exchange between atmosphere, ocean (including sea ice) and ice sheets of both hemispheres that are used in global climate change model construction. His contributions have been recognized in several awards from US and Argentine government agencies.\n\nMount Giovinetto is a 4090 m/13419 ft mountain named for him in the Antarctic Ellsworth Mountains Sentinel Range.\n\nIn 2001 Dr. Giovinetto participated in a NASA Johnson Space Center workshop - \"Antarctic Explorations Parallels for Future Human Planetary Exploration\" - where the isolated polar environment experience of researchers was tapped to help predict issues that could arise in human crew extraplanetary exploration. There are many parallels between a winter-long remote polar settlement and one on the Moon or Mars.\n\nDr. Giovinetto's higher education began at the Universidad Nacional de La Plata and culminated in a Ph.D (1968) in Geography with a minor in Geology and Geophysics from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He has held academic positions at the University of Wisconsin, the University of California - Berkeley, and the University of Calgary where he served as department head. He was Principal Scientist at the Department of Geodynamics, Raytheon Technical Services Company and has held the appointment of Professor Emeritus, University of Calgary.\n\nDr. Giovinetto has written or co-authored numerous technical reports, many of which are accessible on the Internet by his name. Example works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "16278867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278867", "title": "Outline of Japan", "text": "Outline of Japan\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Japan:\n\nJapan – an island nation in East Asia, located in the Pacific Ocean. It lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south. The characters that make up Japan's name mean \"sun-origin\" (because it lies to the east of nearby countries), which is why Japan is sometimes referred to as the \"Land of the Rising Sun\". Japan is an archipelago of 6,852 islands. The four largest islands are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and Shikoku, which together comprise about ninety-seven percent of Japan's land area.\n\n\nGeography of Japan\n\nEnvironment of Japan\n\n\nThe four main islands of Japan are:\n\n\nMajor regions of Japan include:\n\nEcoregions of Japan\n\nPrefectures of Japan\n\nFrom north to south (numbering in order), the prefectures of Japan and their commonly associated regions are:\n\nKarafuto, a portion of the island of Sakhalin north of Hokkaido (not shown on the map), was part of Japan from 1907 until World War II. The entire island is now governed by Russia.\n\nMunicipalities of Japan\n\nDemographics of Japan\n\nPolitics of Japan\n\nGovernment of Japan\n\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Japan\n\nJapan is a member of:\n\nLaw of Japan\n\nMilitary of Japan\n\n\n\nCulture of Japan\n\nArchitecture of Japan\n\n\n\nJapanese cuisine\n\n\n\n\nHousing in Japan\n\nLanguages of Japan\n\nReligion in Japan\n\nSports in Japan\n\nEconomy of Japan\n\n\n\n\n\nHealth in Japan\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16285631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285631", "title": "Outline of Romania", "text": "Outline of Romania\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Romania:\n\nRomania – unitary semi-presidential republic located in Central-Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Ukraine. It also borders Hungary, Serbia, and Moldova. It covers 238,391 square kilometres (92,043 sq mi) and has a temperate-continental climate. With 19.9 million inhabitants, it is the seventh most populous member of the European Union. Its capital and largest city, Bucharest, is the sixth largest city in the EU. It encompasses the historical regions of Wallachia (including Dobruja), Moldavia (including Bukovina), Transylvania (including Banat, Maramureș, and Crișana). \"Romania\" derives from the Latin \"romanus\", meaning \"citizen of Rome\".\n\n\nGeography of Romania\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Romania\n\nDevelopment regions of Romania\nThese are the 8 development regions in Romania, which (with the exception of Bucureşti-Ilfov) are named by their geographical position in the country:\n\nCounties of Romania\n\nMunicipalities of Romania\n\nDemographics of Romania\n\n\n\nGovernment of Romania\n\n\nCourt system of Romania\n\nForeign relations of Romania\n\nRomania is a member of:\n\nLaw of Romania\n\nMilitary of Romania\n\nLocal government in Romania\n\nHistory of Romania\n\n\n\n\nCulture of Romania\n\nArt in Romania\n\nLanguages of Romania\n\n\nRomanians\n\nRomanian diaspora\n\nReligion in Romania\n\nSports in Romania\n\nEconomy of Romania\n\nEducation in Romania\n\nRomania\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154487", "title": "Parkway", "text": "Parkway\n\nA parkway is a broad, landscaped highway thoroughfare. The term is particularly used for a roadway in a park or connecting to a park from which trucks and other heavy vehicles are excluded. Many parkways originally intended for scenic, recreational driving have evolved into major urban and commuter routes.\n\nThe term \"parkway\" is sometimes applied more generally to a variety of limited-access roads.\n\nIn Russia, long, broad (multi-lane) and beautified thoroughfares are referred to as prospekts.\n\nOver the years, many different types of roads have been labeled parkways.\n\nThe first parkways in the United States were developed during the late 19th century by landscape architects Frederick Law Olmsted and Beatrix Farrand as roads segregated for pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians, and horse carriages, such as the Eastern Parkway, which is credited as the world's first parkway, and Ocean Parkway in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. The terminology \"parkway\" to define this type of road was coined by Calvert Vaux and Frederick Law Olmsted in their proposal to link city and suburban parks with \"pleasure roads\".\n\nNewer roads such as Bidwell in Buffalo, New York and Park Presidio Boulevard in San Francisco, California were designed for automobiles and are broad and divided by large landscaped central medians. \n\nDuring the early 20th century, the meaning of the word was expanded to include limited-access highways designed for recreational driving of automobiles, with landscaping. These parkways originally provided scenic routes without very slow or commercial vehicles, at grade intersections, or pedestrian traffic. Examples are the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut and the Vanderbilt Motor Parkway in New York. But their success led to more development, expanding a city's boundaries, eventually limiting the parkway's recreational driving use. The Arroyo Seco Parkway between Downtown Los Angeles and Pasadena, California is an example of lost pastoral aesthetics. It and others have become major commuting routes, while retaining the name \"parkway\".\n\nIn New York City, construction on the Long Island Motor Parkway (Vanderbilt Parkway) began in 1906 and planning for the Bronx River Parkway in 1907. In the 1920s, the New York City Metropolitan Area's parkway system grew under the direction of Robert Moses, the president of the New York State Council of Parks and Long Island State Park Commission, who used parkways to create and access state parks, especially for city dwellers. As Commissioner of New York City Parks under Mayor LaGuardia, he extended the parkways to the heart of the city, creating and linking its parks to the greater metropolitan systems.\n\nMost of the New York metropolitan parkways were designed by Gilmore Clark. The famed \"Gateway to New England\" Merritt Parkway in Connecticut was designed in the 1930s as a pleasurable alternative for affluent locals to the congested Boston Post Road, running through forest with each bridge designed uniquely to enhance the scenery. Another example is the Sprain Brook Parkway from The Bronx to become the Taconic State Parkway to Chatham, New York. Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nIn the 1930s, as part of the New Deal the U.S. federal government constructed National Parkways designed for recreational driving and to commemorate historic trails and routes. These divided four-lane parkways have lower speed limits and are maintained by the National Park Service. An example is the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) built Blue Ridge Parkway in the Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina and Virginia.\n\nOthers are: Skyline Drive in Virginia; the Natchez Trace Parkway in Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee; and the Colonial Parkway in eastern Virginia's Historic Triangle area. The George Washington Memorial Parkway and the Clara Barton Parkway, running along the Potomac River near Washington, D.C. and Alexandria, Virginia, were also constructed during this era.\n\nIn Kentucky the term \"parkway\" designates a controlled-access highway in the , with nine built in the 1960s and 1970s. They were toll roads until the construction bonds were repaid, and are now freeways since 2006.\n\nThe Arroyo Seco Parkway from Pasadena to Los Angeles, built in 1940, was the first segment of the vast Southern California freeway system. It became part of State Route 110 and was renamed the Pasadena Freeway. A 2010 restoration of the freeway brought the Arroyo Seco Parkway designation back.\nIn the New York metropolitan area, contemporary parkways are predominantly controlled-access highways restricted to non-commercial traffic, excluding trucks and tractor-trailers. Some have low overpasses that also exclude buses. The Vanderbilt Parkway, an exception in western Suffolk County, is a surviving remnant of the Long Island Motor Parkway that became a surface street, no longer with controlled-access or non-commercial vehicle restrictions. The Palisades Interstate Parkway is a post-war parkway that starts at the George Washington Bridge, heads north through New Jersey, continuing through Rockland and Orange counties in New York. The Palisades Parkway was built to allow for a direct route from New York City to Harriman State Park.\n\nIn New Jersey, the Garden State Parkway, connecting the urban Northeast U.S. with the Jersey Shore and Atlantic City, is restricted to buses and non-commercial traffic north of the Route 18 interchange but is one of the busiest toll roads in the country.\n\nIn the Pittsburgh region, two of the major Interstates are referred to informally as parkways. The Parkway East (I-376, formally the Penn-Lincoln Parkway) connects Downtown Pittsburgh to Monroeville, Pennsylvania. The Parkway West (I-376) runs through the Fort Pitt Tunnel and links Downtown to Pittsburgh International Airport, southbound I-79, Imperial, Pennsylvania, and westbound US 22/US 30. The Parkway North (I-279) connects Downtown to Franklin Park, Pennsylvania and northbound I-79.\nIn the suburbs of Philadelphia, U.S. Route 202 follows an at-grade parkway alignment known as the \"U.S. Route 202 Parkway\" between Montgomeryville and Doylestown. The parkway varies from two to four lanes in width, has shoulders, a walking path called the US 202 Parkway Trail on the side, and a speed limit. The parkway opened in 2012 as a bypass of a section of US 202 between the two towns; it had originally been proposed as a four-lane freeway before funding for the road was cut.\n\nIn Minneapolis, the Grand Rounds Scenic Byway system has of streets designated as parkways. These are not freeways; they have a slow speed limit, pedestrian crossings, and stop signs.\n\nIn Cincinnati, parkways are major roads which trucks are prohibited from using. Some Cincinnati parkways, such as Columbia Parkway, are high-speed, limited-access roads, while others, such as Central Parkway, are multi-lane urban roads without controlled access. Columbia Parkway carries US-50 traffic from downtown towards east-side suburbs of Mariemont, Anderson, and Milford, and is a limited access road from downtown to the Village of Mariemont.\n\n\"Parkway\" is used in the names of many Canadian roads, including major routes through national parks, scenic drives, major urban thoroughfares, and even regular freeways that carry commercial traffic.\n\nParkways in the National Capital Region are administered by the National Capital Region (Canada). However, some of them are named \"drive\" or \"driveway\".\n\nThe term in Canada is also applied to multi-use paths and greenways used by walkers and cyclists.\n\n\nThe United Kingdom has parkways (known in that region as a carriageway) in many large towns and cities. Most examples are motorways or A roads. Some parkways including Chelmsford Parkway have flyovers leading to major roads.\n\nSeveral mainly park-and-ride-status railway stations in England have the suffix \"parkway\" in their name. The etymology is from the original U.S. meaning as the Bristol Parkway railway station was named after the adjacent M32 motorway, originally known as The Parkway because of its green-buffered route into the city. Bristol Parkway was the first railway station so named, in 1972. The majority of such stations were opened in the late 20th century to relieve pressure on existing city centre stations. Examples such as Didcot Parkway are renamings following the expansion of the car parking facilities where the name is used promotionally (for example commuters to Oxford are encouraged to leave their car at Didcot and travel to Oxford by train) whereas in others with multi-storey car parks serving modest settlements such as Brookwood and Fleet the suffix has not been adopted.\n\nLuton Airport Parkway and Southampton Airport Parkway are examples serving Luton and Southampton airports. Some were so named as they are not in easy walking distance of an airport terminal; passengers use shuttle bus services, although Southampton Airport station is within easy walking distance of Southampton Airport and has no separate car parking facilities of its own.\n\nThe city and third-generation new town of Peterborough (population of 184,500 as at 2011 census) has an overall free-capacity system roads branded as \"parkways\", which together with other roads provide routes for much through traffic and local traffic sufficient to cope in most peak hours. The majority are dual carriageways, with many of their junctions numbered. Five main parkways (Soke Parkway, Nene Parkway, Fletton Parkway, Frank Perkins Parkway, Paston Parkway) form an orbital outer ring road. Orton Parkway, Werrington Parkway, Longthorpe Parkway are named after the settlements they serve. For example, Werrington Parkway is an arbitrary renaming of a short section of the A15 Lincoln Road.\n\nIn the City of Plymouth, the A38 is called \"The Parkway\" and bisects a rural belt of the local authority area, which coincides with the geographical centre; it has two junctions to enter the downtown part of the city.\n\nThe Australian Capital Territory uses the term \"parkway\" to refer to roadways of a standard approximately equivalent to what would be designated as an \"expressway\", \"freeway\", or \"motorway\" in other areas. Parkways generally have multiple lanes in each direction of travel, no intersections (crossroads are accessed by interchanges), high speed limits, and are of dual carriageway design (or have high crash barriers on the median).\n\nVictoria uses the term \"parkway\" to sometimes refer to smaller local access roads that travel through parkland. Unlike other uses of the term, these parkways are not high-speed routes but may still have some degree of limited access.\n\nSingapore uses the term \"parkway\" as an alternative to \"expressway\". As such, parkways are also dual carriageways with high speed limits and interchanges. The East Coast Parkway is currently the only expressway in Singapore that uses this terminology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37963846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37963846", "title": "Polar Bears International", "text": "Polar Bears International\n\nPolar Bears International (PBI) is a non-profit polar bear conservation organization. Their research, education, and action programs address the issues that are endangering polar bears. The organization also tracks the activity of polar bears, primarily in Canada, which has helped lead to the animals being listed as an endangered species. Their Chief Scientist is Steven Amstrup, who was awarded the Indianapolis Prize in 2012. In partnership with Google, polar bear habitats in Churchill were added to Google Maps in February 2014. PBI also worked with the Association of Zoos and Aquariums to create education programs regarding polar bear conservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2831333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831333", "title": "Postharvest", "text": "Postharvest\n\nIn agriculture, postharvest handling is the stage of crop production immediately following harvest, including cooling, cleaning, sorting and packing. The instant a crop is removed from the ground, or separated from its parent plant, it begins to deteriorate. Postharvest treatment largely determines final quality, whether a crop is sold for fresh consumption, or used as an ingredient in a processed food product.\n\nThe most important goals of post-harvest handling are keeping the product cool, to avoid moisture loss and slow down undesirable chemical changes, and avoiding physical damage such as bruising, to delay spoilage. Sanitation is also an important factor, to reduce the possibility of pathogens that could be carried by fresh produce, for example, as residue from contaminated washing water.\n\nAfter the field, post-harvest processing is usually continued in a packing house. This can be a simple shed, providing shade and running water, or a large-scale, sophisticated, mechanised facility, with conveyor belts, automated sorting and packing stations, walk-in coolers and the like. In mechanised harvesting, processing may also begin as part of the actual harvest process, with initial cleaning and sorting performed by the harvesting machinery.\n\nInitial post-harvest storage conditions are critical to maintaining quality. Each crop has an optimum range of storage temperature and humidity. Also, certain crops cannot be effectively stored together, as unwanted chemical interactions can result. Various methods of high-speed cooling, and sophisticated refrigerated and atmosphere-controlled environments, are employed to prolong freshness, particularly in large-scale operations.\n\nRegardless of the scale of harvest, from domestic garden to industrialised farm, the basic principles of post-harvest handling for most crops are the same: handle with care to avoid damage (cutting, crushing, bruising), cool immediately and maintain in cool conditions, and cull (remove damaged items).\n\nOnce harvested, vegetables and fruits are subject to the active process of senescence. Numerous biochemical processes continuously change the original composition of the crop until it becomes unmarketable. The period during which consumption is considered acceptable is defined as the time of \"postharvest shelf life\".\n\nPostharvest shelf life is typically determined by objective methods that determine the overall appearance, taste, flavour, and texture of the commodity. These methods usually include a combination of sensorial, biochemical, mechanical, and colorimetric (optical) measurements. A recent study attempted (and failed) to discover a biochemical marker and fingerprint methods as indices for freshness.\n\n\nPostharvest physiology is the scientific study of the physiology of living plant tissues after they have denied further nutrition by picking. It has direct applications to postharvest handling in establishing the storage and transport conditions that best prolong shelf life.\n\nAn example of the importance of the field to postharvest handling is the discovery that ripening of fruit can be delayed, and thus their storage prolonged, by preventing fruit tissue respiration. This insight allowed scientists to bring to bear their knowledge of the fundamental principles and mechanisms of respiration, leading to postharvest storage techniques such as cold storage, gaseous storage, and waxy skin coatings. Another well-known example is the finding that ripening may be brought on by treatment with ethylene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26012456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26012456", "title": "SECORE", "text": "SECORE\n\nSECORE (SExual COral REproduction) is an international non-profit organization focused on coral reef conservation. The group has over sixty supporters in North America, Europe and Japan, and comprises public aquariums, institutes, and universities. Founded in 2001 at the Rotterdam Zoo in the Netherlands, the organization has been developing methods of captive coral reproduction and preservation, citing studies that have predicted coral reefs could be extinct within decades due to climate change.\n\nBased on the coral reproduction research of Dr. Dirk Petersen at the Rotterdam Zoo (The Netherlands), SECORE was born in 2002. Petersen's findings led to innovative techniques on the use sexual coral reproduction for coral reef conservation. Established by the aquarium community and coral conservation scientists, SECORE initially focused on ex situ conservation and later as well on reef restoration (in situ conservation).\n\nIn 2004, Mike Brittsan, M.Sc., of the Columbus Zoo & Aquarium joined SECORE to take over the leading role in the USA. Over the years, both institutions, the Rotterdam Zoo and the Columbus Zoo & Aquarium – in collaboration with other organisations – started a very successful workshop program not only to train experts in the SECORE techniques, but also to bring different institutions together for a common goal – help saving the greatest marine ecosystem on our planet, the coral reef. SECORE supports excellent science in various fields, such as coral restoration, coral population genetics or coral cryopreservation.\n\nTogether with its more than 60 supporting partner institutions, SECORE reaches millions of people to spread the word about the dramatic situation of our ocean and what we can do about it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438208", "title": "Sary Shagan", "text": "Sary Shagan\n\nSary Shagan (; ) is an anti-ballistic missile testing range located in Kazakhstan.\n\nOn 17 August 1956 the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union authorized plans for an experimental facility for missile defense located at Sary Shagan, on the west bank of Lake Balkhash. The first missile launched from the facility was a V-1000 on 16 October 1958, but the facilities for full-scale testing were not ready until 1961. Sary Shagan remains in use to this day, with the latest known launch on September 26, 2017. Sary Shagan was a closed city until 2005.\n\nThe length of the site is 480 km.\n\nThe Sary Shagan range was the intended landing site for the sample return canister of the Russian Phobos Grunt mission.\n\nIn the 1970s the Vympel OKB, Geofizika, Phazotron, MNIIRE Altair, others; built the Terra-3 laser testing centre at Sary Shagan.\n\nThe Sary Shagan site has hosted a number of radar prototypes such as the Don-2NP. Also there is Balkhash-9 radar station a few km away which started in the 1960s and still functions as part of the Russian missile warning network.\n\n"}
{"id": "1674530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674530", "title": "Trnsko", "text": "Trnsko\n\nTrnsko is a neighbourhood of Zagreb, Croatia, located south of Dubrovnik Avenue in Novi Zagreb - zapad. The population is 5,331 (2011).\n\nTrnsko was one of Novi Zagreb's first neighbourhoods constructed in early 1960s. The streets have no names, but the orientation is easy - Trnsko 1 is on the north and Trnsko 49 on the far south of the neighbourhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "7556805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7556805", "title": "United States Permanent Representative to NATO", "text": "United States Permanent Representative to NATO\n\nThe United States Permanent Representative to NATO (commonly called the U.S. Ambassador to NATO) is the official representative of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The Representative has the rank of full ambassador and is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The full official title of the Representative is United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. The current U.S. Ambassador to NATO is Kay Bailey Hutchison.\n\nThe first Representative was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953.\n\n"}
{"id": "1509477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1509477", "title": "White Highlands", "text": "White Highlands\n\nThe White Highlands is an area in the central uplands of Kenya, so-called because, during the period of British colonialism, European or white immigrants settled there in considerable numbers. They were attracted to the good soils and growing conditions, as well as the cool climate. Many Kenyans use the rich soil to grow crops. \n\nThe East Africa Protectorate, founded in 1905, encouraged British immigration. By the time the Kenya Colony was established in 1920, about 10,000 British people had colonised the area. The colony granted settlers 999-year leases over about 25% of the good land in Kenya. The original indigenous occupants of the land were predominantly from the Kalenjin, Maasai and Gĩkũyũ. Later, members of the Gĩkũyũ and other allied tribes, the Embu and Meru mounted a rebellion against the British control of central Kenya in the Mau Mau Uprising, which was a major factor leading to the country's eventual independence in Dec. 12, 1963. \n\nThe Maasai, who are pastoralists, found the amount of grazing land considerably reduced as the White Highlands expanded.\n\n"}
{"id": "727498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727498", "title": "Yaqut al-Hamawi", "text": "Yaqut al-Hamawi\n\nYāqūt Shihāb al-Dīn ibn-'Abdullāh al-Rūmī al-Hamawī (1179–1229) () was an Arab biographer and geographer of Greek origin, renowned for his encyclopedic writings on the Muslim world. The \"nisba\" \"al-Rumi\" (\"from Rûm\") refers to his Greek (Byzantine) descent; \"al-Hamawi\" is taken after his master's name; and ibn-Abdullah is a reference to his father's name, Abdullah. The word \"yāqūt\" means \"ruby\" or \"hyacinth\".\n\nBorn in Constantinople, Yāqūt became a \"mawla\" (the term can mean client, apprentice or slave) of a trader named Askar ibn Abi Nasr al-Hamawi who lived in Baghdad, Iraq. His master taught him accounting and trading and sent him to trade on his behalf.\n\nYāqūt travelled two, or three, times to Kish in the Persian Gulf. In 1194 after a quarrel with his master deprived Yāqūt of his income he supported himself as a copier and availed of an opportunity to study under the grammarian Al-‘Ukbarî. After five years he returned to his old master and again travelled for him to Kish; on his return he set up as a bookseller and began to write.\n\nYāqūt was one of the last scholars to access libraries east of the Caspian Sea before the Mongol invasion of Central Asia, and spent ten years travelling in Persia, Syria, and Egypt. For two years he studied in the libraries of the peaceful scholarly city of ancient Merv (in present-day Turkmenistan), where he would gain much of the knowledge evident in his works. He also visited the ancient city of Balkh and in about 1222 he had settled in Mosul to work on his geography. The first draft was ready in 1224. In 1227 he had moved to Alexandria, and from there on to Aleppo, where he died in 1229.\n\nIn his large geography, the \"Mu'jam ul-Buldān\" (ed. F. Wüstenfeld, 6 vols., Leipzig, 1866–73), the places mentioned in the literature or the stories of the Arabs are given in alphabetical order, with the correct vocalization of the names, an indication whether they are Arabic or foreign and their locality. Their history is often sketched with a special account of their conquest by Muslims and the name of the governor at the time is recorded. Attention is also given to the monuments they contain and the celebrities who were born in them or had lived there. In this way a quantity of old literature, both prose and poetry, is preserved by Yāqūt.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1478", "title": "Álfheimr", "text": "Álfheimr\n\nAlfheim (, \"Land Of The Elves\" or \"Elfland\"), also called Ljosalfheim (\"Ljósálf[a]heimr\", \"home of the light-elves\"), is one of the Nine Worlds and home of the Light Elves in Norse mythology.\n\nÁlfheim as an abode of the Elves is mentioned only twice in Old Norse texts.\n\nThe eddic poem \"Grímnismál\" describes twelve divine dwellings beginning in stanza 5 with:\nÝdalir call they     the place where Ull\nA hall for himself hath set;\nAnd Álfheim the gods     to Frey once gave\nAs a tooth-gift in ancient times.\n\nA tooth-gift was a gift given to an infant on the cutting of the first tooth.\n\nIn the 12th century eddic prose \"Gylfaginning\", Snorri Sturluson relates it as the first of a series of abodes in heaven:\nThat which is called Álfheim is one, where dwell the peoples called \"ljósálfar\" [Light Elves]; but the \"dökkálfar\" [Dark Elves] dwell down in the earth, and they are unlike in appearance, but by far more unlike in nature. The Light-elves are fairer to look upon than the sun, but the Dark-elves are blacker than pitch.\n\nThe account later, in speaking of a hall in the Highest Heaven called Gimlé that shall survive when heaven and earth have died, explains:\nIt is said that another heaven is to the southward and upward of this one, and it is called Andlang [\"Andlangr\" 'Endlong'] but the third heaven is yet above that, and it is called Vídbláin [\"Vídbláinn\" 'Wide-blue'] and in that heaven we think this abode is. But we believe that none but Light-Elves inhabit these mansions now.\nIt is not indicated whether these heavens are identical to Álfheim or distinct. Some texts read Vindbláin (\"Vindbláinn\" 'Wind-blue') instead of Vídbláin.\n\nModern commentators speculate (or sometimes state as fact) that Álfheim was one of the nine worlds (\"heima\") mentioned in stanza 2 of the eddic poem \"Völuspá\".\n\n\n"}
