{"id": "45091441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45091441", "title": "Africa Peacekeeping Program", "text": "Africa Peacekeeping Program\n\nThe Africa Peacekeeping Program (AFRICAP) is a U.S. Government program run by the Bureau of African Affairs of the U.S. Department of State \"which provides training and advisory services, equipment procurement, and logistical support and construction services to African countries.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40863691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40863691", "title": "Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades", "text": "Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades\n\nThe al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades ( \"Katā'ib Shuhadā' al-'Aqṣā\") is a secular coalition of Palestinian armed groups in the West Bank. The organization has been designated as a terrorist organization by Israel, the European Union, Canada, Japan New Zealand, and the United States.\n\nThe leadership of the brigades, and average members have identified themselves as the military wing of Fatah. On their website, and on posters, they post the Fatah emblem. The leadership of Fatah has said they never made a decision either to create the brigades, or make them the militant wing of Fatah. Since 2002, some leaders in Fatah have reportedly tried to get the brigades to stop attacking civilians.\n\nIn November 2003, BBC journalists uncovered a payment by Fatah of $50,000 a month to al-Aqsa. This investigation, combined with the documents found by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), led the government of Israel to draw the conclusion that the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades have always been directly funded by Yasser Arafat. In June 2004, then Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei openly stated this: \"We have clearly declared that the Aksa Martyrs' Brigades are part of Fatah. We are committed to them and Fatah bears full responsibility for the group.\" In July, he further declared \"The al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, military wing of the Fatah movement will not be dissolved and Fatah will never relinquish its military wing.\"\n\nOn 18 December 2003, Fatah asked the leaders of the al-Aqsa Martyr's Brigades to join the Fatah Council, recognizing it officially as part of the Fatah organization.\n\nThe al-Aqsa brigades are responsible for dozens of suicide bombings and many more shooting attacks against Israeli vehicles in the West Bank. For a complete list of the suicide bombings carried out by the organization see: List of Palestinian suicide attacks.\n\nSome notable suicide bombings committed by the group were:\n\nOn 16 October 2005, the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades claimed responsibility for a shooting attack at the Gush Etzion Junction, killing three Israelis and wounding three others.\n\nOn 24 March 2004, a Palestinian teenager named Hussam Abdo was caught in an IDF checkpoint carrying an explosive belt. Following his arrest, an al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade teenagers' militant cell was exposed and arrested in Nablus. On 23 September 2004, a 15-year-old suicide bomber was arrested by Israeli security forces.\nThe Brigades, like many militia groups, is noted for the use of promotional posters in the main cities of the Palestinian territories. The Brigades have attacked Palestinians as well as Israelis. In November and December 2003, they killed the brother of Ghassan Shakaa (the mayor of Nablus). In February 2004 Shakaa filed his resignation from office in protest of the Palestinian Authority's lack of action against the armed militias \"rampaging\" the city. During the first three months of 2004, a number of attacks on journalists in the West Bank and Gaza Strip were blamed on the Brigades as well, including the attack on the Arab television station Al Arabiya's West Bank offices by masked men who identified themselves as members of the Brigades. Palestinian journalists in Gaza called a general strike on 0 February 2004 to protest this rising violence against journalists.\n\nThe al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades have taken prominent part in the July 2004 riots in the Gaza Strip, in which Palestinian officers were kidnapped and PA security headquarters buildings and policemen were attacked by gunmen. These riots led the Palestinian cabinet to declare a state of emergency. One media outlet described the situation in the Palestinian Authority as anarchy and chaos.\n\nThe al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades have carried out several joint attacks with the Islamist group Hamas. These attacks were committed mainly in the Gaza Strip. \"See also:\" PLO and Hamas. The al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades have also carried out joint attack with other militant groups such as Palestinian Islamic Jihad, The Popular Resistance Committees and with Hezbollah in the West Bank.\n\nThe European Union's Gaza offices were raided by 15 masked gunmen from al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades on 30 January 2006. They demanded apologies from Denmark and Norway regarding the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons and left 30 minutes later without shots fired or injuries.\nOn 9 June 2007, in a failed assault on an IDF position at the Kissufim crossing between Gaza and Israel in a possible attempt to kidnap IDF soldiers, 4 armed members of the al-Quds Brigades - the military wing of Islamic Jihad - and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades - the military wing of Fatah -, used a vehicle marked with \"TV\" and \"PRESS\" insignias penetrated the border fence and assaulted a guard tower in what Islamic Jihad and the army said was a failed attempt to capture an Israeli soldier. IDF troops killed one militant, while the others escaped.\n\nThe use of a vehicle that resembled a press vehicle evoked a sharp response from many journalists and news organizations, including the Foreign Press Association and Human Rights Watch.\n\nOn 14 July 2007, Zakaria Zubeidi, considered the local al-Aqsa leader for Jenin and the northern West Bank and has been wanted for many years for his armed activity against Israel, agreed to cease fighting against Israel after Prime Minister Ehud Olmert gave conditional pardon for 178 prisoners from the PA territories.\n\nIn July, 2007, Israel and the Palestinian Authority reached an amnesty deal under which 178 al-Aqsa gunmen surrendered their arms to the Palestinian Authority, renounced future anti-Israel violence and were permitted to join Palestinian security forces. Later agreements in 2007 and 2008 added more gunmen to the list of those granted amnesty in exchange for ending violence, eventually bringing the total to over 300.\n\nOn 22 August 2007, according to Arutz Sheva, al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade announced that it was backing out of its commitment and promise to refrain from attacks against Israel and the Israeli backed amnesty deal giving amnesty to 178 al-Aqsa gunmen who agreed to stop militant activities against Israel and surrender their weapons. al-Aqsa said that it backed out of the deal due to the IDF's arrest of two militants who were supposed to be on the amnesty list. According to the IDF, they said they caught the two men at a checkpoint and said they were involved in \"terrorist activity\" which consequently mandated their arrest according to the stipulations of the amnesty deal. \nShortly after backing out of the amnesty deal and its promise of stopping to attack Israel that Al Aqsa agreed to a month earlier, al-Aqsa gunmen in Gaza have announced that they are starting to launch hundreds of rockets and mortar shells at Israeli towns and cities and named the campaign, \"Hole in the Wall II.\"\n\nNotable members of the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade (ordered lexicographically according to the last name) includes active militants and militants that were killed or arrested by the Israeli security forces.\n\nIn the Sacha Baron Cohen movie \"Brüno\", the character Brüno interviewed Palestinian Christian Ayman Abu Aita, who was portrayed in the movie as a leader of the militant group. The group released a statement to a Jerusalem-based journalist saying that it was \"very upset\" that it had been featured in the film.\n\nAbu Aita insists that he was tricked into appearing in the film and that he has never been involved with the Martyrs' Brigades. In an interview with \"Time\", Abu Aita stated, \"It is true that I was jailed in 2003...I was active in resisting the occupation, in non-violent ways.\" After a clip of the interview was played on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", Ayman called Baron Cohen a \"big liar\". Abu Aita subsequently filed a $110 million lawsuit against Baron Cohen and David Letterman. The suit was settled before trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49122553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49122553", "title": "Alliance of Patriots of Georgia", "text": "Alliance of Patriots of Georgia\n\nThe Alliance of Patriots of Georgia (, \"Sakartvelos Patriotta Aliansi\", APG) is a self-defined centre-right, pro-Russian, conservative opposition party in the republic of Georgia. It was founded in 2012 by leaders from the Resistance Movement and its platform includes anti-Western positions. The party currently supports European integration, it supports Christian and democratic values, and the party demonstrates itself as a moderate-conservative party. The party campaigned against the building of a mosque in Adjara, saying “Turkey has too much influence in Georgia,” so it has been accused of Anti-Turkism. The party favours closer ties with both Russia and the European Union.\n\nIn the 2014 local elections, it gained an aggregate vote nationwide of 4.6%, exceeding the 4% threshold required to qualify as a political party for government funding. Through party-list voting in 47 cities, it won proportional seat representation on the local councils of 30 municipalities, including Tbilisi.\n\nIn June 2016, the party formed a bloc with five other parties (Free Georgia, led by Kakha Kukava; Tavisupleba, led by Konstantine Gamsakhurdia; Traditionalists, led by Akaki Asatiani; New Christian-Democrats, led by Gocha Jojua, and Political Movement of Law Enforcement and Armed Forces Veterans) for the scheduled 2016 parliamentary election, finishing 3rd place in the proportional votе and just passing the electoral threshold of 5%.\n\nThe party was established in December 2012, by founders including Soso Manjavidze, Davit Tarkhan-Mouravi and Irma Inashvili. Giorgi Lomia is political secretary. The party leadership also includes former warlord Emzar Kvitsiani, a figure that has attracted significant controversy. The Alliance party was based on the Resistance Movement, a group fiercely critical of the former ruling party, the United National Movement.\n\nThe Alliance of Patriots maintains anti-Turkish rhetoric, warning of Ankara's designs on the Adjara region, has called for delaying free trade with the EU, and argues that the pursuit of NATO membership is fruitless, as NATO's leading members have themselves made clear that Georgia has little prospect of accession.\n\nThe Alliance party has a television channel, Obieqtivi, run by Inashvili. Davit Tarkhan-Mouravi has a series on the channel in which he lectures on the Bible and Orthodox Christianity. A mathematician, he served in earlier administrations as \"head of the state department for information technologies in the early 2000s, and as head of the customs department for several months in 2003.\"\n\nIn the 2014 local elections, the Georgian Dream coalition, including the Republican Party, gained 50.80%; they have been leading the government since 2012. The UNM gained a nationwide party-list vote in 2014 of 22.41%. Nino Burjanadze and her United Opposition coalition gained the third best results in the local elections, with nationwide 10.22% in the party-list vote. Burjanadze revived a Eurasianist rhetoric, which is supported by Russia, and the campaign was \"fueled by massive influxes of what was likely Russian money.\"\n\nThe Alliance of Patriots of Georgia party received 4.7% of the aggregate vote, meeting the required threshold of 4% to qualify as a political party, and making it eligible for future state funding for elections. It ran in a party-list contest for proportional Sakrebulo seats in 47 of a total of 71 municipalities and cities. In 30 jurisdictions, its party-list voting exceeded 4%, making it eligible for seats on 30 local councils, including that of Tbilisi.\n\nInashvili finished fourth in the mayoral election in Tbilisi with 5.4% of the vote; the party won two seats in the Tbilisi City Assembly. In addition, Alliance of Patriots of Georgia mayoral candidates qualified for run-off elections against Georgian Dream (GD) candidates in the cities of Poti and Ozurgeti; and Alliance candidates qualified for second-round runoffs for municipal executives in the municipalities of Lanchkhuti and Khulo.\n\n"}
{"id": "46669287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46669287", "title": "America Right or Wrong", "text": "America Right or Wrong\n\nAmerica Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism is a 2012 book by the British author and academic Anatol Lieven. A separate, earlier version was published in 2004.\n\nThe book investigates the far-right in American politics, the radicalisation of the Republican Party and the Tea Party movement. The book also discusses the concept of American exceptionalism.\n\nIn \"Foreign Affairs\" the book was described as 'intelligent and often provocative' whilst in \"The Guardian\" the book was praised by Martin Woollacott who wrote 'We should have seen it coming. All the signs were there in the 1990s - the mania about resisting outside influences, the narrow religious beliefs, the harking back to a golden age, the sense of being under threat from modernity, the readiness to use violent means. The roots of it went back centuries. But it took the attacks of 9/11 for us to realise how powerful was this burgeoning extremism...We are not, of course, talking here about Islam or about al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden, but about America. It is Anatol Lieven's contention in this illuminating book that Bin Laden's assault on the United States stripped away many of the remaining restraints on the intolerant, irrational, and self-destructive side of American nationalism. Whether this nationalism is a greater problem than that represented by Islamic extremism is a moot point, but it is clear that the combination of the two could bring disaster on us all'.\nIn the \"London Review of Books\" the work was praised as 'fascinating and incisive...a compelling argument'.\n"}
{"id": "50248019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50248019", "title": "Ark Encounter", "text": "Ark Encounter\n\nArk Encounter is a creationist theme park that opened in Grant County, Kentucky on July 7, 2016. The centerpiece of the park is a large representation of Noah's Ark based on the Genesis flood narrative contained in the Bible. It is long, wide, and high.\n\nArk Encounter is operated by Answers in Genesis (AiG), a young Earth creationist (YEC) organization that also operates the Creation Museum away in Petersburg, Kentucky. The theme park promotes pseudoscientific young Earth creationist beliefs about the age of the universe, age of the Earth, and co-existence of man and non-avian dinosaurs.\n\nAfter feasibility studies projected that the park would be a boon to the state's tourism industry, the Ark Encounter received tax incentives from the city, county, and state to induce its construction. This drew criticism from groups concerned with the separation of church and state. A dispute over AiG's hiring practices was adjudicated in U.S. federal court, which found in 2016 that the organization could require Ark Encounter employees to sign a statement of faith as a condition of their employment, prompting criticism of the park's discriminatory hiring practices.\n\nThe ark contains 132 bays, each standing about high, arranged into three decks. Visitors enter on the lowest deck and move between decks on ramps constructed through the center of the ark. Bays on the first deck contain models of some animals that AiG believes were on the ark; there are no live animals within the ark though there is a petting zoo on the grounds. The models are meant to represent \"kinds\" of animals, which AiG says gave rise to modern animals after the flood. Among the models presented, according to AiG co-founder Mark Looey prior to the Ark's opening, are dinosaurs and a pair of unicorns. \n\nThe second deck contains more animal models, along with dioramas of Noah's workshop and a blacksmith. Bays on the third deck contain displays presenting what AiG believes might have happened inside and outside the ark during the flood. Displays in three of the bays include artifacts from the Green Collection and promote the Museum of the Bible, a Washington, D.C. attraction constructed by the Green family, who donated to the Ark Encounter's construction. RoadsideAmerica.com rated the displays depicting the sinful state of the world before the flood, including a priest sacrificing an infant to an unnamed snake god and people murdered in a gladiatorial event in an arena, as among the most memorable exhibits in the attraction. \n\nThe ark is held off the ground by a series of concrete towers. The starboard side of the hull merges into three masonry towers containing stairwells, elevators, and restrooms.\n\nOn December 1, 2010, the young Earth creationism group Answers in Genesis (AiG) and the for-profit corporation Ark Encounter, LLC announced that they would partner to build a theme park called Ark Encounter that, as they claimed, would \"lend credence to the biblical account of a catastrophic flood and to dispel doubts that Noah could have fit two of every kind of animal onto a 500-foot-long ark\". The partners projected that the fully completed park would cost $150 million, which they intended to raise privately.\n\nUnder a program enacted by the Kentucky General Assembly in 2010, Ark Encounter investors applied for economic development incentives that would allow them to recoup 25 percent of the project's construction costs by keeping a portion of the park's sales taxes during its first ten years of operation. Receipt of the incentives would be contingent upon Ark Encounter meeting established performance goals upon opening. A press release from Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear's office cited a feasibility study commissioned by Ark Encounter, LLC and conducted by consumer research corporation America's Research Group Limited, Inc. The company had also conducted the feasibility study for AiG's Ark Encounter and an attitudinal survey included in Ken Ham's book \"Already Gone\"; ARC founder C. Britt Beemer was credited as a co-author of the book. This projected the park could employ 900 people, attract as many as 1.6 million visitors in its first year of operation, and generate a $214 million economic impact for the region. The group selected an parcel near Interstate 75 in Grant County, Kentucky, near the city of Williamstown and about from AiG's Creation Museum in Petersburg, Kentucky.\n\nThe city of Williamstown designated a radius around the Ark Encounter site as a tax increment financing district, meaning 75 percent of sales and property taxes collected in the district would return to Ark Encounter for a period of 30 years. Employees working in the district would also pay a 2 percent employment tax over the same time frame that would go to the Ark Encounter. The Grant County Industrial Development Authority paid Ark Encounter, LLC $195,000 to compensate the corporation for the fact that word of their interest in building the attraction in Grant County had leaked early, causing land prices to double in the area. Further, the Grant County Fiscal Court discounted the sale price of of the site to influence the final selection. Citing the proffered incentives, Ark Encounter, LLC made the Grant County site their final selection and scheduled groundbreaking for August 2011. Plans for additional phases of the park include a model of the Tower of Babel, along with replicas of an ancient walled city and a first-century Middle Eastern village.\n\nArk Encounter, LLC finalized the purchase of the entire Ark Encounter site in February 2012. At that time, AiG announced the decision to construct the park in phases, saying it had raised only $5 million of the $24 million needed to begin construction. The first phase included a full-scale model of Noah's Ark and a petting zoo. Plans for five subsequent phases included replicas of an ancient walled city, a first-century Middle Eastern village, and the Tower of Babel; an aviary; and a 500-seat special effects theater.\nIn December 2013, the city of Williamstown offered $62 million using tax increment financing of bonds to jump-start construction on the Ark Encounter. The unrated bonds were backed by the Ark Encounter's projected future revenues, but the city was not liable for repaying them in the event that the revenues didn't materialize. At the time of the offering, Ark Encounter, LLC had raised approximately $14 million toward construction of the park. A group of atheist objectors to the Ark Encounter attempted to disrupt the offering by registering for the sale themselves and conducting a public relations campaign against the bonds. In early January 2014, only $26.5 million in bonds had been sold; if at least $55 million in bonds were not sold by February 6, all of the bonds would be automatically redeemed. On February 27, 2014, AiG founder Ken Ham announced that his February 4 debate on the viability of creationism with TV personality Bill Nye \"the Science Guy\" had spurred bond sales, and that the Ark Encounter had raised enough money to begin construction. AiG officials said the final cost of the park at its opening exceeded $100 million, including $62 million from the Williamstown bond offering and $36 million from individual donations. The second phase of the park construction is projected to commence in 2018 or 2019.\n\nThe 2014 Kentucky General Assembly allocated $1.15 million to Grant County for road improvements to accommodate the heavier traffic expected to be generated by the Ark Encounter. The Assembly also projected the need for $9.1 million in 2017 to improve the Interstate 75 interchange at Williamstown, but this allocation was beyond the scope of the state's two-year road funding plan. The 2016 General Assembly allocated $10 million to create a new interchange between Kentucky Route 36 (KY 36) and Interstate 75. Until the improvements are completed, AiG is paying for workers to direct traffic on KY 36 near the Ark Encounter. After the initial allocation by the state, AiG invested $500,000 of its own money into improving KY 36; this, and better-than-expected traffic flow, led to the Kentucky Department of Transportation scaling back the proposed improvements, awarding a $3.5 million contract in December 2017. The project is projected to be completed November 2, 2018.\n\nIn July 2014, with the approved tax incentives set to expire if work on the park had not begun, Ark Encounter withdrew the approved application and filed a new one to receive incentives on the $73 million first phase. The new application required a new feasibility study to be conducted. AiG paid for the study, again conducted by Hunden Strategic Partners, which projected a more conservative 400,000 visitors a year, 787 new jobs, and a $40 million economic impact. Shortly after the application was given preliminary approval by the Kentucky Tourism Development Finance Authority, Kentucky House Speaker Greg Stumbo said he believed the incentives to be unconstitutional; he added that he expected the state to be sued and lose a costly lawsuit over the issue.\n\nCary Summers, who headed Herschend Family Entertainment from 1992 to 1998, was hired as the lead consultant for the Ark Encounter. Patrick Marsh, who helped design exhibits for the Creation Museum and previously designed attractions for Universal Studios Florida, was part of the planning and design team. The Troyer Group, a construction firm in Mishawaka, Indiana, was contracted to oversee construction of the ark, which was constructed by Amish builders using traditional timber framing techniques. In total, over 1,000 craftsman were employed in the ark's construction. As possible, board pulling was used rather than steaming. Steel nails were used to conform with building code regulations.\nWhile the builders originally planned to hold the ark together with wooden pegs, modern building codes required the builders to use steel fasteners, thus 95 tons of metal plates and bolts were used to connect the wood together. The electric lighting inside was designed to look like oil lamps. According to AiG, the Ark Encounter is the largest timber frame structure in the United States.\n\nAiG considered twelve different possible lengths for the biblical cubit, and AiG chose to use a length of ; this produced plans for an ark measuring long, wide, and high. The Ark Encounter consists of approximately of wood. The framing of the ark consists mostly of Englemann spruce, while the exterior is made of pine; some of the logs were as long as long and in diameter.\n\nThe park's structures and infrastructure were constructed using environmentally friendly Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified methods, including geothermal heating, rainwater capture, active and passive solar heating. \"The Washington Post\" wrote that the decision to use such techniques was exemplary of \"a fundamental shift in how religiously conservative Christians think of two basic biblical ideas: dominion and stewardship\". Construction crews began clearing timber from the site late in 2012 in order to remove the shagbark hickory trees before the endangered Indiana bats migrated to the area to nest in them. Much of the wood used to build the Ark Encounter was sourced from renewable forests or trees infested by beetles. During construction, former President Jimmy Carter toured the Ark Encounter, accepting an invitation from LeRoy Troyer, president of the Troyer Group.\n\nArk Encounter opened on July 7, 2016, a date (7/7) chosen to correspond with Genesis 7:7: \"And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives entered the ark to escape the waters of the flood.\" AiG also announced that, for the first 40 days and 40 nights of Ark Encounter's operation – an allusion to the inundation period (rain and subterranean hydrological eruptions) of the biblical flood – it would extend its hours of operation, offering day and evening tickets. On July 5, AiG held a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Ark Encounter, during which members of the media and an estimated 7,000 donors to the project were given an early tour of the ark. According to the park's publicists, there were 30,000 visitors in its first six days of operation (an average of 5,000 per day).\nTri-State Freethinkers planned to protest the Ark Encounter's opening with a nearby billboard depicting people drowning around Noah's Ark with the caption \"Genocide and Incest Park: Celebrating 2,000 years of myths\", but billboard companies Lamar Advertising Company and Event Advertising and Promotions LLC rejected the design. \"The Courier-Journal\" reported that approximately 150 opponents of the Ark Encounter gathered near the highway exit to protest the park on its opening day. Eric Hovind of Creation Today led a counter-protest during which he offered to pay for any of the ark protesters to tour the ark; the \"Northern Kentucky Tribune\" reported that 21 anti-ark protesters accepted Hovind's offer.\n\nThe next day, popular science communicator Bill Nye accepted Ken Ham's invitation to tour the Ark Encounter, and they had an informal debate as they toured the structure. Nye stated, \"It's all very troubling. You have hundreds of school kids there who have already been indoctrinated and who have been brainwashed. (...) This is about the absolutely wrong idea that the Earth is 6,000 years old that's alarming to me.\" Earlier in the debate, Ham stated, \"My biggest concern is you're teaching generations of young people that they're just animals.\" Footage from Nye's visit was subsequently included in the documentary film \"\", which was released in 2017.\n\nThe Freedom From Religion Foundation, an organization that advocates for the separation of church and state, sent letters to over 1,000 public school districts in Kentucky, Tennessee, Ohio, Indiana and West Virginia warning them not to organize field trips to the Ark Encounter, arguing that such trips would \"expose children to religious proselytizing in violation of the constitutional separation of church and state.\" Grant County, Kentucky Education Commissioner Stephen Pruitt responded that approval of field trips is a decision of local school boards but that such trips should be directly related to curriculum. He said it is not appropriate for \"outside third parties to dictate field trip selections.\" Contending that FFRF was incorrect in their assertion, Ham posted on his blog that he would encourage public school groups to visit the ark by offering admission of $1 per child and no charge for accompanying teachers for the remainder of 2016.\n\nThe Tri-State Freethinkers has protested annually at the Ark Encounter on the anniversary of its opening, citing its hiring practices, anti-evolution teachings, and acceptance of state tax incentives as causes for protestors' concerns. Local media coverage estimated the size of the 2018 protest to be between 120 and 200 people.\n\nIn December 2016, for the holiday season, AiG lit the Ark with rainbow colors, the purpose being to \"reclaim the symbol from the gay rights movement\" and remind viewers of the Noahic covenant. In February 2017, Ken Ham announced AiG would permanently continue the rainbow lighting. Permanent lights were installed in July 2017. AiG also plans to open a \"Rainbow Garden\" near the petting zoo where flowers create a rainbow display.\n\nIn November 2017, construction began on a 2,500-seat theater on the park's grounds. The theater was originally projected to be completed in time to host the \"Equipping Families to Stand\" conference, scheduled for July 18, 2018, but construction has been delayed, and the building is now projected to open before the end of 2018. AiG also announced a new children's play area scheduled to open in spring 2019 and an expansion to the petting zoo projected to open by mid-2019.\n\nOn October 22, 2016, the Ark Encounter hosted the premiere of evangelist Ray Comfort's film \"The Atheist Delusion\". \n\nRock and Roll Hall of Famer Ozzy Osbourne and his son, Jack, visited the Ark Encounter in April 2017 to film an episode of their reality television series \"Ozzy & Jack's World Detour\". The episode, entitled \"Kentucky Fried Osbournes\", aired on A&E on November 29, 2017. \n\nArk Encounter was designated the \"Sight of the Week\" for January 1–7, 2018, by Doug Kirby's RoadsideAmerica.com. The site gave Ark Encounter its highest rating (\"The Best\"), noting, \"the Ark is an attraction that should be visited -- if only because it's unlikely that you'll ever visit anything else like it.\" The review characterized the ark as \"a very nuts-and-bolts \"American\" Ark, with Noah and his clan in the mold of self-sufficient Pilgrims and innovative pioneers\" (emphasis in original).\n\nAiG initially predicted yearly attendance for the attraction of 1.4-2.2 million people. After a year of operation, AiG reported attendance of about 1 million, attributing the lower number to opening in the middle of tourist season. \n\nOn February 24, 2017, Executive Director of the Grant County Chamber of Commerce Jamie Baker stated that the Ark had drawn additional tourism to the area, and that the challenge now was to expand accommodation and other local amenities in order to convert this into economic growth for the county. In March, the Northern Kentucky Convention and Visitors Bureau presented the Ark Encounter with its Star of Tourism award for 2016. Bureau President Eric Summe reported a $23 million increase in visitor spending in nearby Boone, Kenton, and Campbell counties in 2016 over 2015, the year that the region hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game; Summe attributed a large part of the increase in spending and hotel occupancy to the opening of the Ark Encounter and an expansion of its sister attraction, AiG's Creation Museum. In June 2017, Mayor Jim Wells of Dry Ridge, Kentucky stated that the Ark Encounter had a positive effect on the town, with hotel occupancy rates increasing from 60 to 98 percent since the opening of the attraction. In July 2018, Nashville-based Athena Hospitality Group broke ground on a hotel and restaurant development in Dry Ridge, citing the need for more accommodations for Ark Encounter visitors as the motivation. The planned development will accommodate three hotels and three restaurants, with the first hotel, an 80-room Comfort Suites projected to open in the third quarter of 2019.\n\nAt the end of Ark Encounter's second year, AiG reported an attendance of 1 million visitors for the year. Subsequently, \"The Courier-Journal\" reported that the Freedom From Religion Foundation had disputed those numbers based upon data obtained through open records requests made to Grant County. According to the Foundation, the amount of money collected by the Grant County via its safety assessment fee on ticket sales indicated that only 862,471 people visited the attraction between July 2017 and June 2018. In response, AiG spokesman Mark Looy told the paper that this method for calculating attendance was not reliable because it did not include non-paying guests such as children under 5, annual pass holders, and those with lifetime passes, all of whom are admitted to the park for free. Because the city of Williamstown based their annual budget on AiG's attendance projections, the city was forced to readjust its budget downward when the number of paying guests fell short of 1 million.\n\nOrganizations dedicated to supporting the separation of church and state were divided on the question of providing tax incentives for the Ark Encounter. Barry W. Lynn of Americans United for Separation of Church and State opined that \"The government should not be giving tax incentives for religious projects. Religion should be supported by voluntary donations, not the government.\" Bill Sharp, the staff attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union of Kentucky, countered that \"Courts have found that giving such tax exemptions on a nondiscriminatory basis does not violate the establishment clause, even when the tax exemption goes to a religious purpose.\" Edwin Kagin of American Atheists brought up the difficulty of litigating against the incentives provided by state laws, saying, \"The legislation is so drafted that they will give this incentive to any organization that is going to increase tourism in Kentucky, and there's no question whatsoever that this group will.\" The editorial board of the \"Lexington Herald-Leader\" wrote that \"Ark Encounters [sic] is a private company seeking to make a profit off of a biblical theme. As such, it seems as entitled to apply for incentives from promised profits as any other private, for-profit company in Kentucky.\" Still, the board was critical of using the incentives to attract low-paying jobs and to facilitate construction of an attraction it characterized as hostile \"to science, knowledge and education\", which could be off-putting to \"the kind of employers that will provide good-paying jobs with a future\".\n\nGovernor Beshear favored the incentives, stating \"The people of Kentucky didn't elect me governor to debate religion. They elected me governor to create jobs,\" Beshear said, adding, \"There's nothing even remotely unconstitutional about a for-profit organization coming in and investing $150 million to create jobs in Kentucky and bring tourism to Kentucky.\" Responding to an open records request by the \"Lexington Herald-Leader\", Beshear's office later admitted it had not seen the feasibility study cited in its press release, and an administration representative said that the state tourism department would have to conduct its own study in order for the park to be eligible for the incentives. The state-commissioned study by Hunden Strategic Partners and paid for by Ark Encounter, LLC, projected that the park would draw nearly 1.4 million visitors a year, but could require the state to widen the Interstate 75 interchange at Williamstown, at an additional cost to the state of about $11 million. In an editorial in late December 2010, \"The Courier-Journal\" questioned the potential cost to the state government of the project, including highway upgrades and the likelihood that increases to hospitality industry infrastructure would seek further subsidies. In May 2011, the Kentucky Tourism Development Finance Authority voted unanimously to grant incentives of up to $43.1 million to Ark Encounter, LLC. for the project, by then projected to cost $172 million.\n\nIn June 2017, Grant County Judge Executive Stephen P. Wood told the \"Lexington Herald-Leader\" that the tax incentives offered to the Ark Encounter were \"a really bad deal for taxpayers\". Although the valuation of the property within Ark Encounter's tax increment financing district increased from $1.3 million in 2011 to $55 million in 2017, under the terms of its deal with Ark Encounter, the county only retained $63,000 of the $250,000 in property taxes collected within the district, with the rest returning to the park. School taxes were exempted from the deal, and Grant County Schools saw a 58% increase in property tax revenue from 2016 to 2017.\n\nIn April 2017, the city of Williamstown implemented a \"safety assessment\" of 50 cents per ticket sold at the Ark Encounter, the Williamstown Family Fun Park, and Main Street Gardens to upgrade the city's emergency equipment to sufficiently serve the attractions. AiG maintained that, as the largest of the three attractions, the assessment placed an undue share of the cost on Ark Encounter. After Williamstown officials rejected AiG's request to cap its share of the cost, first at $350,000 and later at $500,000, Ark Encounter LLC sold the main parcel of land for the attraction to its non-profit affiliate, Crosswater Canyon, for $10 and requested an exemption from the fee based on their status as a religious entity. County officials rejected that request.\n\nOn July 18, 2017, the state of Kentucky notified Ark Encounter that the sale of the property to Crosswater Canyon put them in breach of their agreement for $18 million in tax incentives. Three days later, Crosswater Canyon reversed the sale, transferring the land back to Ark Encounter, LLC for $10. On July 25, Ark Encounter said they would pay the safety assessment and had been collecting it on tickets sold beginning July 1. In a public statement, AiG spokesman Mark Looy said, \"The filing for an exemption as a religious non-profit (as permitted in the ordinance), was done in an attempt to get the county to change the wording as it currently stands, which would exempt the Ark Encounter. It was not to avoid paying its fair share, as some articles have suggested.\" AiG gave no official explanation for the transfer of land to or from Crosswater Canyon, which Williamstown officials had feared could be an attempt to avoid paying property taxes. The \"Grant County News and Express\" reported in December 2017 that the safety assessment had generated approximately $213,000 for the city in four months, with less than $500 of that amount being paid by attractions other than Ark Encounter.\n\nIn its first year of operation, Ark Encounter generated over $2.28 million in sales taxes for the state of Kentucky, a figure which excluded the period during which the attraction was owned by Crosswater Canyon. Ark Encounter received a rebate of $1.8 million of the collected taxes, the maximum amount allowed for the year under terms of its agreement with the state.\n\nAmericans United for the Separation of Church and State petitioned the Kentucky Tourism Development Finance Authority in August 2014 to withdraw its preliminary approval of tax incentives for the Ark Encounter because of AiG's hiring practices, which required all applicants to profess Christianity and sign a statement of faith attesting to their beliefs in young Earth creationism and that homosexuality is sinful among other requirements. Zovath countered that the Ark Encounter's hiring policies had not been written yet and that the hiring policies of AiG should not be a factor because Ark Encounter, LLC was the entity receiving the incentives. In response to Americans United's petition, a spokesman for the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet said, \"As a condition of any incentive program, all projects must follow all state and federal laws, including all laws related to hiring.\" Following Americans United's petition, the \"Lexington Herald-Leader\" editorial board also called for the incentives to be rescinded.\n\nIn October, Kentucky Tourism Arts and Heritage Cabinet Secretary Bob Stewart wrote to AiG requesting \"express written assurance from Ark Encounter that it will not discriminate in any way on the basis of religion in hiring for the project\". Citing the Supreme Court's decision in \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby\", which found that individuals had the right \"to run their businesses as for-profit corporations in the manner required by their religious beliefs\", AiG refused, insisting that Ark Encounter had the right to \"include religion as a criteria in its future hiring decisions\". In December 2014, Stewart announced that the incentives would be withdrawn, because the facility was to be used for religious indoctrination instead of as a tourist attraction, and because of complaints of hiring discrimination. During the Christmas holidays, AiG conducted a billboard public relations campaign in support of the project in several metropolitan areas in Kentucky and a digital billboard in New York City's Times Square.\n\nArk Encounter LLC, filed a religious discrimination lawsuit against the state in February 2015. Freedom Guard chief counsel Mike Johnson represented AiG for free in the suit, which alleged the state of Kentucky violated Ark Encounter's First Amendment free speech rights by denying the incentives. AiG officials maintained that the incentives, potentially worth $18 million, were not necessary to complete construction of the ark, but they would accelerate the timeline for constructing additional phases of the Ark Encounter. After conservative Matt Bevin was elected to succeed Steve Beshear as governor in November 2015, Kentucky Senate Majority Leader Damon Thayer said he would encourage the new governor's administration to restore the tax incentives and render AiG's lawsuit moot, but Ham insisted that AiG preferred to have the matter adjudicated to set a legal precedent.\n\nOn January 25, 2016, Federal Judge Gregory F. Van Tatenhove of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky ruled in favor of AiG in the case of \"Ark Encounter LLC et al. vs. Bob Stewart et al.\", ordering the state to commence processing the application for the tax rebate incentives that would become available once the Ark Encounter opened. Bevin announced that the state would not appeal Van Tatenhove's decision, and later replaced four of the nine members on the Tourism Development Finance Authority. Ark Encounter began advertising to fill 300 to 400 jobs in the park in April 2016; applicants were required to sign a statement of faith before being hired. Two weeks later, the Tourism Development Finance Authority approved the incentives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34793547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34793547", "title": "Asiatic Land Tenure and Indian Representation Act, 1946", "text": "Asiatic Land Tenure and Indian Representation Act, 1946\n\nThe Asiatic Land Tenure and Indian Representation Act, 1946 (Act No. 28 of 1946; subsequently renamed the Asiatic Land Tenure Act, 1946, and also known as the \"Ghetto Act\") of South Africa sought to confine Asian ownership and occupation of land to certain clearly defined areas of towns. The Act also prohibited Asians from owning or occupying property without a permit when such property had not been owned or occupied by Asians before 1946.\n\nFurthermore, it granted Indians in the Transvaal and Natal the right to elect Whites to represent them in Parliament and for Natal Indians to represent themselves in the Natal Provincial Council.\n\nThe Act deprived the Asian South Africans of communal representation and took away their fundamental and elementary right of land ownership and occupation. It is called and regarded universally by Indian people as the \"Ghetto Act\".\n\nThe act struck at the heart of Indian commercial and economic life. Not only did it intend to reduce the levels of Indian trade and reduce progress in the acquisition of fixed property, it also is thought to have reduced the opportunities of the masses of the Indian people to earn a decent living and ultimately condemn them to existence in increasingly over-crowded slums and locations. Thus on 31 March 1948, it is thought that about 6,000 Indians marched in protest to the Act in Durban, South Africa.\n\nThe sections of the act granting representation in Parliament and the provincial council were repealed by the Asiatic Laws Amendment Act, 1948. The rest of the act was repealed by the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act, 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1497343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1497343", "title": "Azerbaijani Democratic Party", "text": "Azerbaijani Democratic Party\n\nThe Azerbaijan Democratic Party (; ) was a communist party supported by the Soviet Union and founded by Jafar Pishevari in Tabriz, Iran, in September 1945. ADP was founded as an opposition party against the Pahlavi dynasty. Soviet-supported Tudeh party dissolved its Azerbaijan chapter and ordered its members to join ADP.. The ADP ruled the Soviet-backed Azerbaijan People's Government from 1945 until 1946 with Pishevari as premier.\n"}
{"id": "43741365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43741365", "title": "Bongal", "text": "Bongal\n\nBongal (Bongya) is a derogatory slur used to refer to the Bengali Hindus in Assam. The Bengalis who had settled in Assam during the British period when they were brought in from neighbouring Bengal province to work in and maintain the newly formed British administration or those who migrated from East Pakistan (present Bangladesh) as refugees in the wake of the Partition of India and their descendants are collectively referred to as Bongals. The Bengali speaking Muslims from eastern Pakistan (immigrants before 1971, infiltrators thereafter), on the other hand, are called Na Asamiya (meaning 'New Assamese') due to their cultural and linguistic assimilation with the Assamese Hindus and Muslims. The term lent the name to the infamous Bongal Kheda movement of the 1950s and 1960s which resulted in an ethnic cleansing of Bengali Hindus from the Brahmaputra valley in Assam. During the colonial days, the term referred to anyone who was perceived as a foreigner (a non-Assamese Indian citizen from the 'mainland'). Later on however, it meant exclusively the Bengali Hindus.\n\nThe term may have been derived from 'Bangala', the name of the Mughal province of Bengal. Initially the term might have stood for the people of Bengal, but later it is said to have stood for any foreigner. Because of its geographic location, the approach to the Ahom kingdom from mainland India was through Bengal. During the Ahom rule the word was used in a derogatory manner for foreigners and invaders. Ahom general Lachit Borphukan is said to have referred to the Mughals as Bongals.\n\nOver years of political seclusion, 'Bongal' became a term of suspicion, reproach and contempt. When the British annexed Ahom kingdom to its Indian territories, many Bengali Hindus arrived in Assam by taking up administrative jobs in the government. The Britishers and the Bengali Hindus alike were referred to as Bongals. The Assamese people viewed Bongal was someone who didn't belong Assam, an intruder whose presence threatened to marginalize them socially and politically. The Britishers were called Boga Bongal, literally meaning 'the white foreigner' and the Bengali Hindus were called 'Kola Bongal' literally meaning 'the black foreigner'. In the 19th century Assamese intellectual discourse, anyone other than the people of Assam or the Hill tribes were called Bongals. They were described to be foreigners, uncivilized and filthy. An 1872 Assamese play by Rudra Ram Bordoloi titled 'Bongal Bongalini' lampooned the social problems created by the outsiders i.e. the Bongals, especially who came during the British rule. The Assamese women who preferred to marry the Bongals, referred to as 'Bongalini's (feminine of Bongal), were described as promiscuous women and concubines of the Bongals.\n\nAfter the Independence, the term continued to be used for the Bengali Hindus. However, it was not used for the Bengalis only. In a broader sense, it was used to refer to any group that was perceived to be an outsider. West Bengal was described as \"Bongal Desh\", literally meaning 'the land of the Bongals' in Assamese.\n\nIn the colonial period, the Bengali Hindus dominated the white collar profession in Assam. This was resented by the Assamese population. After the independence, the Assamese political leadership promoted the concept of Assam for Assamese. Assamese was to be the sole official language of the state. No other non-Assamese group in Assam posed a direct challenge to the emerging Assamese middle class in the white collar profession than the Bengali Hindus. The selection of a Bengali Hindu as the chief of the oil refinery by the administration was a graphic example. Due to their advanced educational qualifications, the Bengali Hindus were preferred to any other group for the white collar jobs by the government. The resentment led to an organized campaign called 'Bongal Kheda', literally meaning 'drive away the Bongals', which resulted in ethnic cleansing of Bengali Hindus from parts of Assam. The ethnic cleansing started in the early 1960s continued through the sixties into the seventies and eighties. In the seventies it spread to Meghalaya and Tripura.\n\n"}
{"id": "446834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446834", "title": "Border Security Force", "text": "Border Security Force\n\nThe Border Security Force (BSF) is the primary border defence organisation of India. It is one of the five Central Armed Police Forces of the Union of India, it was raised in the wake of the 1965 War on 1 December 1965, \"for ensuring the security of the borders of India and for matters connected there with\". It is a Central Armed Police Force charged with guarding India's land border during peacetime and preventing transnational crime. It is a Union Government Agency under the administrative control of Ministry of Home Affairs. The BSF has its own cadre of officers but its head, designated as a Director-General (DG), since its raising has been an officer from the Indian Police Service. It is an Armed Force of the Union of India tasked with various assignments from time to time. The BSF has grown exponentially from a few battalions in 1965, to 186 battalions with a sanctioned strength of 257,363 personnel including an expanding air wing, marine wing, artillery regiments, and commando units. It currently stands as the world's largest border guarding force. BSF has been termed as the \"First Line of Defence\" of Indian Territories.\n\nFrom independence in 1947 to 1965, the protection of India's international boundaries was the responsibility of local police belonging to each border state, with little inter-state coordination. BSF was created as a Central government-controlled security force to guard all of India's borders, thus bringing greater cohesion in border security. BSF is charged with guarding India's land border during peacetime and preventing transnational crime. It is a Union Government Agency under the administrative control of the Ministry of Home Affairs. It is one of many law enforcement agencies of India. It currently stands as the world's largest border guarding force.\n\n\nDuring the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, the border management system was in the hands of the individual state police forces, and these proved incapable of properly dealing with border threats. Following these episodes, the government created the Border Security Force as a unified central agency with the specific mandate of guarding India's international boundaries. K F Rustamji, from the Indian Police Service, was the first Director General of BSF. Till 1965 India’s borders with Pakistan were manned by the State Armed Police Battalion. Pakistan attacked Sardar Post, Chhar Bet, and Beria Bet on 9 April 1965 in Kutch. This exposed the inadequacy of the State Armed Police to cope with armed aggression due to which the Government of India felt the need for a specialized centrally controlled Border Security Force, which would be armed and trained to man the International Border with Pakistan. As a result of the recommendations of the Committee of Secretaries, the Border Security Force came into existence on 1 Dec 1965 with K F Rustamji as its first Director General.\n\nThe BSF's capabilities were used in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 against Pakistani forces in areas where the Regular Forces were thinly spread; BSF troops took part in several operations including the famous Battle of Longewala. In fact, for BSF the war on eastern front had started well before the war actually broke out in Dec '71. BSF had trained, supported and formed part of \"Mukti Bahini\" and had entered erstwhile East Pakistan before the actual hostilities broke out. BSF had played a very important role in Liberation of Bangladesh which Indira Gandhi and Sheikh Mujibur Rehman had also acknowledged.\n\nThe BSF, long considered a male bastion, has now deployed its first batch of women personnel at the border to carry out regular frisking of women as well as other duties performed by their male counterparts, including guarding the border. Over 100 women have been deployed on the highly volatile Indo-Pak border, while around 60 will be deployed on the Indo-Bangla border. In total, 595 women constables will be deployed on the border in different phases.\n\nMr K F Rustamji IPS was the first Director General of Border Security Force from 21 July 1965 to 30 September 1974 & current Director General is Mr K K Sharma IPS since 29 February 2016.\n\nEvery evening, at the Wagah border, which is the international border of India and Pakistan, the BSF together with the neighbouring country's border guarding, the Pakistan Rangers conduct a military drill while lowering the respective national flags. This attracts a good number of spectators from both countries, as well as international tourists. Similar parades are being organised at Mahavir/Sadqi border near Fazilka and Hussainiwala/Gandasinghwala border near Firozpur.\n\nAlthough originally charged with guarding India's external boundaries, the BSF has more recently been given the task in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations in Jammu And Kashmir, Punjab, North East. While in Punjab BSF took Part in operations like Blue Star, Black Thunder 1 & 2 till 1989 and when the insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir broke out in 1989, the BSF handover the Counter Insurgency Operations to CRPF and Punjab Police and moved towards state of Jammu & Kashmir. In Jammu and Kashmir state police and the thinly-deployed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) struggled to cope up with the spiraling violence, and the Indian government deployed the BSF to Jammu and Kashmir to combat separatist militants.\n\nThe BSF initially suffered casualties from insurgent attacks but later saw successes, including the arrest of militant leaders, after setting up an intelligence network and working with local civilians. BSF contribution in reducing militancy in J&K is widely acknowledged. The BSF killed Ghazi Baba—chief of Jaish-e-Mohammed and the mastermind of the 2001 Indian Parliament attack—in August 2003 along with his deputy commander. The BSF raided Baba's hideout in Srinagar and he was killed in the ensuing gun battle along with his deputy chief.\n\nDespite the BSF's success in a counter-terrorism role, many in the government felt that this additional burden was leading to a dilution of the BSF's mandate and degrading the force's ability to perform its primary role of guarding the country's borders. In 2006 the Indian government has decided to implement recommendations to restrict each security agency to its mandate. Thus the 16 BSF battalions in Jammu and Kashmir are gradually being withdrawn from counter-insurgency duties and diverted back to guard the Indo-Pak border. They are being replaced by fresh units from the CRPF that have undergone specialised training in counter-terrorism. But the CRPF is yet to take over sensitive places like Tral. The 16 battalions being withdrawn from J&K were supposed to provide R&R to the battalions already deployed on the border. But with increasing Naxal violence in Central India, the government decided to diversify the Anti-Naxal operation with the induction of ITBP and BSF. BSF was deployed in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh, where Naxal strength is comparatively thinner than that of other parts of Bastar region. At present total 15 battalions of BSF are stationed in different parts of Kanker district to combat the Naxal menace.\n\nThe Border Security Force has its Headquarters at New Delhi and is known as Force Headquarters (FHQ) headed by a Director General. Various Directorates like Operations, Communications & IT, Training, Engineering, General, Law, Provisioning, Administration, Personnel, Armaments, Medical, Finance etc. function under the DG. Each Directorate is headed by an IG. The Eastern Theatre is looked after by Spl DG HQ at Kolkata and the Western Theatre is looked after by Spl DG HQ at Chandigarh. Field Formations in BSF are headed by an IG and are known as Frontiers Headquarters (FtrHQ). There is 10 such Frontier under which Sector Headquarters (SHQ) function headed by a DIG each. There are 31 such Sectors. Each SHQ has under its command 4–5 Duty Battalions. Presently 186 Battalions are sanctioned to BSF. Five major training institutions and 10 Subsidiary Training Centres (STCs) are imparting ab-initio as well as in-service training to its ranks and other CPOs/SPOs including IPS Probationers.\n\nBSF is the only Central Armed Police force to have its own Air Wing, Marine Wing and artillery regiments, which support the General Duty Battalions in their operations. The Financial Adviser of the BSF has been an Indian Revenue Service officer of the rank of Joint Secretary and also has Dy Advisers from the Indian Audit and Accounts Service and Indian Civil Account Service.\n\nThe BSF also has a national level school for breeding and training of dogs. Dogs from other CPOs and State Police are sent to National Training Centre for Dogs (NTCD) to be trained in infantry patrol, detection of explosives, tracking and the like.\n\nThe BSF maintains a Tear Smoke Unit (TSU), which is unique in India. The TSU is responsible for producing tear gas munitions required for the Anti-Riot Forces. It also exports a substantial quantity to other countries.\n\nThree battalions of the BSF, located at Kolkata, Guwahati, and Patna, are designated as the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Each battalion maintains 18 self-contained specialist search and rescue teams of 45 personnel each, including engineers, technicians, electricians, dog squads and medics and paramedics. The establishment of each battalion is 1,158 personnel. The NDRF is a multi-disciplinary, multi-skilled, high-tech force for all types of disasters and can deploy to disasters by air, sea, and land. The battalions are equipped and trained for all natural disasters including combating Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical (NBC) disasters.\n\n\nBSF is largely employed for Internal Security Duties and other law and order duties on the requisition of the State Government. Being a Central Armed Police Force it can be entrusted with policing duties at any place apart from its mandate.\n\nThe Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) is considering a proposal to entrust the border-guarding duty along the Indo-Myanmar border to the Border Security Force (BSF). Presently, the Indo-Myanmar border is being guarded by Assam Rifles.\n\nThe proposed move to guard the Indo-Myanmar border follows a proposal from the BSF to take over the role by raising 45 new battalions, one headquarters of additional director general, four frontier headquarters to be headed by an IG rank official and 12 sector headquarters to be headed by DIG level officials.\nBut the recent rise in Insurgent Activities on Indo-Myanmar Border has forced the Government of India to delay a Border Guarding Force like BSF on Indo-Myanmar Border.\nAs of 1 March 2015, it was decided by the Ministry of Home Affairs to keep the authority of this border with Assam Rifles only.\n\n\n\nBeing a central Indian police agency and having high presence of Indian Police Service officers, BSF follows ranks and insignia similar to other police organizations in India.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>\n\nThe BSF personnel have been recipients of the following awards:\n\n\n\n\nAll the equipment including the uniforms, weapons, ammunition, vehicles such as the bullet proof vehicles, troop carriers, logistics vehicles, mine protected vehicles are manufactured indigenously at the Indian Ordnance Factories under control of the Ordnance Factories Board.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMANPADS\n\nCreek Crocodile Commando are the elite commando force of BSF. It is Rann of Kutch (an extensive salt marsh of western India and southeast Pakistan between the Gulf of Kutch and the Indus River delta. It was the scene of major border disputes in 1965 and 1971).\nCreek (Gujarat): In order to thwart landing of terrorists through the sea route, BSF has formed its first commando unit—Creek Crocodiles—to man the hostile creek area where India shares a border with Pakistan.\n\nCreeks are a very hostile terrain, constituting numerous raised grounds having mangroves and a network of water channels which are quite shallow where all movements are tide dependent.\n\n\"Creek Crocodiles are trained to thwart any evil designs from across the border\", BSF commandant Pushpendra Singh Rathore, who had created and trained the commando unit at Koteshwar outpost of BSF, said.\n\n\"We have kept three things in mind while selecting cadets for the commando including swimming and marine diving performance, firing abilities and endurance to work in the rough creek,\".\n\nThe Crocodile units have 42 commandos at present and they are undergoing vigorous training, he said.\n\nAccording to the senior BSF officer, some MPVs have already been introduced in a number of BSF units along the border and more MPVs to be added in the coming years.\n\nFacing difficulty in guarding riverine sections of Indo-Pak border, the BSF has started installing Farheen LASER walls to fill the gaps which saw several breaches by militants from across the border.\n\nIn 2010, some Canadian visa officials rejected the immigration application of a retired BSF soldier Fateh Singh Pandher, terming BSF a \"notoriously violent paramilitary unit engaged in systematic attacks on civilians and responsible for torturing suspected criminals\". This accusation did not go down well with the Indian government. The Indian External Affairs Ministry was asked by the Home minister to take up the issue with Canada. The Home ministry of India, as well as the Indian public in general and several of India's political parties, expressed outrage at this attack and called Canada's actions discriminatory and spurious, and their charges against the BSF as baseless and unproven. The Indian government threatened diplomatic retaliation unless Canada withdrew their allegations. The Canadian government did not respond immediately. It was speculated that diplomatic retaliation from India will consist of banning Canadians going to participate the War in Afghanistan if they are doing so through India. Public outrage in India prompted Canadian authorities to express \"great respect for India's armed forces and related institutions\". Subsequently, India's Ministry of External Affairs summoned Canadian High Commissioner Joseph Caron and demanded that \"the blatant discrimination against Indian security agencies\" cease. India's Minister of External Affairs, SM Krishna, condemned Canada's actions and has expressed pride in the accomplishments of the BSF.\n\nFollowing complaints made by the Indian government and criticism of Canada's actions against India, the Harper government retracted their earlier accusations against BSF security officials. Canada's Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, Jason Kenney, Termed as \"unfortunate\" the incidents involving use of \"foul language by the Canadian High Commission in visa rejection letters to some individuals\", Kenney said, \"This language, or the inaccurate impression it has created, in no way reflects the policy or position of the Government of Canada.\"\n\nAccording to the Bangladeshi government, 136 civilians were killed and a further 170 others suffered injuries in 2009. The Indian government has said that 67 were killed and 80 injured in 2009. The Bangladesh government and Bangladeshi organizations protested heavily against these alleged killings. Media reports claim that in August 2008, Indian BSF officials admitted that they killed 59 persons (34 Bangladeshis, 21 Indians, rest unidentified) who were trying to cross the border illegally during the prior six months. Indian media claimed that, in 2001, Bangladeshi Border Force kidnapped and murdered 16 BSF personnel because they chased some Bangladeshi goons back to Bangladesh. Since then, the BSF has been compelled to act tough against Bangladeshi illegals \nIn July 2009 Channel 4 News reported that apparently \"hundreds\" of Bangladeshis and Indians are indiscriminately killed by the BSF along the Indo-Bangladeshi Barrier. The BSF claims that the barrier's main purpose is to check illegal immigration to India, and prevent cross-border terrorism from Islamists. \nBangladeshi media accused the BSF of abducting 5 Bangladeshi children, aged between 8 and 15, from the Haripur Upazila in Thakurgaon District of Bangladesh, in 2010. The children were setting fishing nets near the border. \nIn 2010, Human Rights Watch (HRW) issued an 81-page report which alleged \"over 900 of abuses by the BSF\" in the first decade of the 21st century. The report was compiled from interviews with victims of BSF shootings, witnesses and members of the BSF and its Bangladeshi counterpart. According to HRW, while most of them were killed when they crossed into Indian territory for indulging in cattle raiding or other smuggling activities.\n\nIn February 2012, the BSF website was hacked by Bangladeshi hackers in retaliation. The hackers later shared the news in the internet and also in the other social sites where they claimed to have defaced the sites asking the BSF to stop killing Bangladeshis at border. The site became normal sometime on 15 February 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13036399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13036399", "title": "British Association for Shooting and Conservation", "text": "British Association for Shooting and Conservation\n\nThe British Association for Shooting and Conservation (BASC) is a registered society under the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014, whose mission is to promote and protect sporting shooting and the well-being of the countryside throughout the United Kingdom and overseas. With a membership of over 150,000 and 110 staff BASC is the largest and best resourced country sports organisation in the UK. Its magazine \"Shooting and Conservation\" has the largest circulation of any shooting magazine in Britain.\n\nSporting shooting includes wildfowling, game, and rough shooting, deer stalking, target shooting and air gunning, pigeon shooting and pest control, gundogs and promoting practical habitat conservation. BASC is also involved in the political representation of shooting - training and the setting of standards in shooting sports and the association undertakes research in its area of interest.\n\nBASC began as the Wildfowlers Association of Great Britain and Ireland, (WAGBI) founded by Stanley Duncan, an engineer and gun shop owner from Hull, in 1908. Duncan was a highly experienced wildfowler and naturalist who feared for the future of wildfowling which was under threat from attempts to control the foreshore. He was also concerned to protect coastal habitats to preserve wildfowl and defend shooting from \"protectionist\" extremists wishing to ban the sport. The first president was Sir Ralph Payne-Gallwey, a notable Edwardian shot and author of several books on shooting. Duncan remained the secretary of WAGBI until 1946. Duncan was also a member of the Zoological Society.\n\nFor his fowling expeditions Duncan stayed at the Black Hut on Patrington Haven on the Humber. Legend credits this as the place where WAGBI was founded and the hut became iconic to generations of fowlers. The truth is more prosaic. The first WAGBI meeting was held in an hotel in Hull. The Black hut was allegedly washed away by a big tide in 1969 but was more likely destroyed by a digger clearing the site.\n\nWAGBI nearly died due to the losses sustained by its members during the world wars. By 1953 the association was in sufficiently good shape to mount a formidable defence of wildfowling against the Protection of Birds Bill which threatened to impose unnecessary and restrictive controls on the sport. WAGBI’s successful lobbying resulted in legislation that was far more balanced and which was dubbed by the sports' opponents as \"The Wildfowlers’ Charter\".\n\nFollowing this victory WAGBI appointed its first full-time director, a former naval officer and Liverpool businessman, Commander John Anderton, who summed up his agenda as \"doing one’s best for something one likes – backed by the conviction that what one is doing is right.\" Under Anderton WAGBI focused its efforts on raising standards among wildfowlers and establishing a network of wildfowling clubs to preserve local shooting and maintain records of wildfowl populations.\n\nIn 1975 the Gamekeepers Association merged with WAGBI and in 1977, the association was a founding member of FACE the federation for shooting sports in the European Union.\n\nThe association had always been inclusive and welcomed those who participated in other areas of shooting. In addition shooting had become more open with individuals pursuing several forms of the sport. The change of name to the British Association for Shooting and Conservation (BASC) was agreed at the Annual General Meeting in 1981 in recognition that shooting sports required a single representative body and that WAGBI was the most suitably placed organisation to take on the role.\n\nBASC is a representative body for shooting sports and is a registered society under the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014. Each member has one share in the association. BASC is governed by a council elected from the members. Council is advised by a series of committees for Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, game shooting, deer stalking and wildfowling. BASC has a membership of over 150,000.\n\nMarford Mill, the association’s headquarters was acquired in 1976. The property is a former water mill at Rossett, in Wrexham. Among the collections held by BASC are several firearms of note such as Irish Tom, a punt gun of unusual length and bore and Colonel Hawker’s double punt gun. \nThe association has country offices in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland as well as four English regional directors and their staff based in the North, Central, the South East and the South West.\n\nWhile the main purpose of the association is the protection and promotion of country shooting and its associated conservation activities, members benefit from a range of services. These include £10 million of public liability insurance for country sports, the wildfowling permit scheme, deer stalking schemes and the Goshooting initiative that links those looking for a shooting opportunity with those providing them. Members also receive the benefit of advice from BASC’s expert staff on issues involving shooting and firearms certification and licensing, land management and gamekeeping.\n\nAmong BASC’s notable projects are Green Shoots, which links members to local biodiversity plans, Young Shots, which seeks to educate young people about field sports, and Taste of Game which promotes game meat. BASC is a signatory to the Code of Good Shooting Practice and produces a series of codes of practice on aspects of shooting.\n\nIn politics BASC operates on an all-party basis and has scored notable recent victories in ensuring that shooting was not damaged by the Hunting Act 2004, preserving the legal right for young people to continue to go shooting with airguns, where they have the permission of the landowner, and securing an exemption from the ban on the cosmetic docking of dogs tails for working gundogs. Currently all the major political parties in Britain are pledged to support shooting sports. BASC provides the secretariat for the All Party Parliamentary Group on Shooting and Conservation and, at the request of MPs, organises the annual Lords v. Commons clay pigeon shoot.\n\nThe patron of the association is Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, who has held the office since 1967. Richard Ali succeeded John Swift as chief executive of the association in 2013, a position he held until March 2017, when the association announced his dismissal. BASC has announced that Ian Bell took over as chief executive in February 2018.\n\nBASC opposes attempts to ban the use of lead shot, despite the stance of its former chief executive, arguing that further restrictions do not have a robust evidence base and that compliance with the law and proper processing of game meat manages the risks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4582386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4582386", "title": "Brotherhood and unity", "text": "Brotherhood and unity\n\nBrotherhood and Unity was a popular slogan of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia that was coined during the Yugoslav People's Liberation War (1941–45), and which evolved into a guiding principle of Yugoslavia's post-war inter-ethnic policy. In Slovenia, the slogan \"Brotherhood and Peace\" () was used in the beginning.\n\nAfter the invasion of Yugoslavia by Axis forces in April 1941, the occupying powers and their helpers sought to systematically incite hatred among the many national, ethnic and religious groups of Yugoslavia. The Yugoslav Communist Party successfully publicized the brotherhood and unity of Yugoslavia's nations (\"narodi\") and national minorities (\"nacionalne manjine\", later renamed to \"narodnosti\") in their struggle against the fascist enemy and domestic collaborators. The decision of the second session of AVNOJ on the federalization of Yugoslavia in 1943 was regarded as the recognition of this Brotherhood and Unity principle.\n\nAfter the war, the slogan designated the official policy of inter-ethnic relations in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as embodied in its federal constitutions of 1963 and of 1974. The policy prescribed that Yugoslavia's nations (Serbs, Macedonians, Croats, Slovenes, Montenegrins, Muslims) and national minorities (Albanians, Hungarians, Romanians, Bulgarians, Jews, Italians, and others) are equal groups that coexist peacefully in the federation, promoting their similarities and interdependence in order to overcome national conflicts and hatred. Every individual was entitled to the expression of their own culture, while the ethnic groups had an oath to one another to maintain peaceful relations. Citizens were also encouraged and allowed to declare their nationality as Yugoslav, which usually polled at 10%. The policy also led to the adoption of national quota systems in all public institutions, including economic organizations, in which national groups were represented by their republic's or province's national composition.\n\nThroughout Yugoslavia many factories, schools, public venues, folklore ensembles and sporting teams used to be named \"Brotherhood and unity\", as well as the Ljubljana-Zagreb-Beograd-Skopje highway (Highway \"Brotherhood and Unity\"). The country had a decoration called the Order of the Brotherhood and Unity.\n\nSeveral prominent persons from former Yugoslavia were convicted for activities deemed to threaten the brotherhood and unity, such as acts of chauvinist propaganda, separatism and irredentism. Among people who needed and strived for their country's independence were former presidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Alija Izetbegović) and Croatia (Franjo Tuđman and Stjepan Mesić), Croatian army general of Albanian descent Rahim Ademi and many others. One Kosovo Albanian, Adem Demaçi, was imprisoned for almost 30 years for allegations of espionage and irredentism.\n"}
{"id": "54139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54139", "title": "Bureau of Land Management", "text": "Bureau of Land Management\n\nThe Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is an agency within the United States Department of the Interior that administers more than of public lands in the United States which constitutes one-eighth of the landmass of the country. President Harry S. Truman created the BLM in 1946 by combining two existing agencies: the General Land Office and the Grazing Service. The agency manages the federal government's nearly of subsurface mineral estate located beneath federal, state and private lands severed from their surface rights by the Homestead Act of 1862. Most BLM public lands are located in these 12 western states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. \n\nThe mission of the BLM is \"to sustain the health, diversity, and productivity of the public lands for the use and enjoyment of present and future generations.\" Originally BLM holdings were described as \"land nobody wanted\" because homesteaders had passed them by. All the same, ranchers hold nearly 18,000 permits and leases for livestock grazing on of BLM public lands. The agency manages 221 wilderness areas, 27 national monuments and some 636 other protected areas as part of the National Conservation Lands (formerly known as the National Landscape Conservation System), totaling about . In addition the National Conservation Lands include nearly 2,400 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers, and nearly 6,000 miles of National Scenic and Historic Trails. There are more than 63,000 oil and gas wells on BLM public lands. Total energy leases generated approximately $5.4 billion in 2013, an amount divided among the Treasury, the states, and Native American groups.\n\nThe BLM's roots go back to the Land Ordinance of 1785 and the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. These laws provided for the survey and settlement of the lands that the original 13 colonies ceded to the federal government after the American Revolution. As additional lands were acquired by the United States from Spain, France and other countries, the United States Congress directed that they be explored, surveyed, and made available for settlement. During the Revolutionary War, military bounty land was promised to soldiers who fought for the colonies. After the war, the Treaty of Paris of 1783, signed by the United States, England, France, and Spain, ceded territory to the United States. In the 1780s, other states relinquished their own claims to land in modern-day Ohio. By this time, the United States needed revenue to function. Land was sold so that the government would have money to survive. In order to sell the land, surveys needed to be conducted. The Land Ordinance of 1785 instructed a geographer to oversee this work as undertaken by a group of surveyors. The first years of surveying were completed by trial and error; once the territory of Ohio had been surveyed, a modern public land survey system had been developed. In 1812, Congress established the General Land Office as part of the Department of the Treasury to oversee the disposition of these federal lands. By the early 1800s, promised bounty land claims were finally fulfilled.\n\nOver the years, other bounty land and homestead laws were enacted to dispose of federal land. Several different types of patents existed. These include cash entry, credit, homestead, Indian, military warrants, mineral certificates, private land claims, railroads, state selections, swamps, town sites, and town lots. A system of local land offices spread throughout the territories, patenting land that was surveyed via the corresponding Office of the Surveyor General of a particular territory. This pattern gradually spread across the entire United States. The laws that spurred this system with the exception of the General Mining Law of 1872 and the Desert Land Act of 1877 have since been repealed or superseded.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Congress took additional steps toward recognizing the value of the assets on public lands and directed the Executive Branch to manage activities on the remaining public lands. The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 allowed leasing, exploration, and production of selected commodities, such as coal, oil, gas, and sodium to take place on public lands. The Taylor Grazing Act of 1934 established the United States Grazing Service to manage the public rangelands by establishment of advisory boards that set grazing fees. The Oregon and California Revested Lands Sustained Yield Management Act of 1937, commonly referred as the O&C Act, required sustained yield management of the timberlands in western Oregon.\n\nIn 1946, the Grazing Service was merged with the General Land Office to form the Bureau of Land Management within the Department of the Interior. It took several years for this new agency to integrate and reorganize. In the end, the Bureau of Land Management became less focused on land disposal and more focused on the long term management and preservation of the land. The agency achieved its current form by combining offices in the western states and creating a corresponding office for lands both east of and alongside the Mississippi River. As a matter of course, the BLM's emphasis fell on activities in the western states as most of the mining, land sales, and federally owned areas are located west of the Mississippi.\n\nBLM personnel on the ground have typically been oriented toward local interests, while bureau management in Washington are led by presidential guidance. By means of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, Congress created a more unified bureau mission and recognized the value of the remaining public lands by declaring that these lands would remain in public ownership. The law directed that these lands be managed with a view toward \"multiple use\" defined as \"management of the public lands and their various resource values so that they are utilized in the combination that will best meet the present and future needs of the American people.\"\n\nSince the Reagan years of the 1980s, Republicans have often given priority to local control and to grazing, mining and petroleum production, while Democrats have more often emphasized environmental concerns even when granting mining and drilling leases. In September 1996, then President Bill Clinton used his authority under the Antiquities Act to establish the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southern Utah, the first of now 20 national monuments established on BLM lands and managed by the agency. The establishment of Grand Staircase-Escalante foreshadowed later creation of the BLM's National Landscape Conservation System in 2000. Use of the Antiquities Act authority, to the extent it effectively scuttled a coal mine to have been operated by Andalex Resources, delighted recreation and conservation enthusiasts but set up larger confrontations with state and local authorities. \n\n\n\nEstablished in 2000, the National Landscape Conservation System is overseen by the BLM. The National Landscape Conservation System lands constitute just about 12% of the lands managed by the BLM. Congress passed Title II of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11) to make the system a permanent part of the public lands protection system in the United States. By designating these areas for conservation, the law directed the BLM to ensure these places are protected for future generations, similar to national parks and wildlife refuges.\n\nThe BLM, through its Office of Law Enforcement & Security, functions as a federal law enforcement agency of the United States Government. BLM law enforcement rangers and special agents receive their training through Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC). Full-time staffing for these positions approaches 300.\n\nUniformed rangers enforce laws and regulations governing BLM lands and resources. As part of that mission, these BLM rangers carry firearms, defensive equipment, make arrests, execute search warrants, complete reports and testify in court. They seek to establish a regular and recurring presence on a vast amount of public lands, roads and recreation sites. They focus on the protection of natural and cultural resources, other BLM employees and visitors. Given the many locations of BLM public lands, these rangers use canines, helicopters, snowmobiles, dirt bikes and boats to perform their duties.\n\nBy contrast BLM special agents are criminal investigators who plan and conduct investigations concerning possible violations of criminal and administrative provisions of the BLM and other statutes under the United States Code. Special agents are normally plain clothes officers who carry concealed firearms, and other defensive equipment, make arrests, carry out complex criminal investigations, present cases for prosecution to local United States Attorneys and prepare investigative reports. Criminal investigators occasionally conduct internal and civil claim investigations.\n\nThe BLM manages free-roaming horses and burros on public lands in ten western states. Though they are feral, the agency is obligated to protect them under the Wild and Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act of 1971 (WFRHBA). As the horses have few natural predators, populations have grown substantially. WFRHBA as enacted provides for the removal of excess animals; the destruction of lame, old, or sick animals; the private placement or adoption of excess animals; and even the destruction of healthy animals if range management required it. In fact, the destruction of healthy or unhealthy horses has almost never occurred. Pursuant to the Public Rangelands Improvement Act of 1978, the BLM has established 179 \"herd management areas\" (HMAs) covering acres where feral horses can be found on federal lands.\n\nIn 1973, BLM began a pilot project on the Pryor Mountains Wild Horse Range known as the Adopt-A-Horse initiative. The program took advantage of provisions in the WFRHBA to allow private \"qualified\" individuals to \"adopt\" as many horses as they wanted if they could show that they could provide adequate care for the animals. At the time, title to the horses remained permanently with the federal government. The pilot project was so successful that BLM allowed it to go nationwide in 1976. The Adopt-a-Horse program quickly became the primary method of removing excess feral horses from BLM land given the lack of other viable methods. The BLM also uses limited amounts of contraceptives in the herd, in the form of PZP vaccinations; advocates say that additional use of these vaccines would help to diminish the excess number of horses currently under BLM management.\n\nDespite the early successes of the adoption program, the BLM has struggled to maintain acceptable herd levels, as without natural predators, herd sizes can double every four years. As of 2014, there were more than 49,000 horses and burros on BLM-managed land, exceeding the BLM's estimated \"appropriate management level\" (AML) by almost 22,500.\n\nThe Bureau of Land Management has implemented several programs and has developed partnerships as part of their management plan for preserving wild burros and horses in the United States. There are several herds of horses and burros roaming free on 26.9 million acres of range spread out in ten western states. It is essential to maintain a balance that keeps herd management land and animal population healthy. Some programs and partnerships include the Mustang Heritage Foundation, U.S. Border Patrol, Idaho 4H, Napa Mustang Days and Little Book Cliffs Darting Team. These partnerships help with adoption and animal population as well as education and raising awareness about wild horses and burros. \n\nIn 2009, BLM opened Renewable Energy Coordination Offices in order to approve and oversee wind, solar, biomass, and geothermal projects on BLM-managed lands. The offices were located in the four states where energy companies had shown the greatest interest in renewable energy development: Arizona, California, Nevada, and Wyoming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24726624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24726624", "title": "Béla Biszku", "text": "Béla Biszku\n\nBéla Biszku (13 September 1921 – 31 March 2016) was a Hungarian communist politician, who served as Minister of the Interior from 1957 to 1961. He was charged of suspicion of committing war crimes during the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, becoming the first and to date only former top-official in Hungary who has been prosecuted because of political role in the communist era.\n\nBéla Biszku was born in Márok, Bereg County (today Márokpapi, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County) on 13 September 1921 as the son of György Biszku and Etelka Debreczeni, who were farm workers. After finishing six years of elementary studies and four years of state civil school, he came afterwards to the locksmith's apprenticeship for the Wertheim Elevator & Machine Manufacture in 1937. Already in 1938 Biszku was active in the youth organisation of the metalworkers in the workers' area of Angyalföld in Budapest. From 1941 to 1942, he worked at Marx & Mérei Scientific Instruments Plant, and from 1942 to 1945, he was employed by Hungarian Philips Works. In 1943, Biszku joined \"Vasas Szakszervezet\", the metalworker's trade union and participated energetically in organizing work.\n\nBiszku joined the Hungarian Communist Party (MKP) in 1944 and participated in the Angyalföld resistance movement that fought against the Nazi German occupation force and against the collaborationist pro-fascist Arrow Cross Party government during the end of World War II. After the war, he played a role in the organization of the Budapest Police, then he established the Angyalföld branch of the communist party. He had worked for the MKP's Budapest Party Committee since 1946.\n\nFor six weeks, he functioned as deputy head of the Cadre Department of the Central Leadership of the Hungarian Working People's Party (MDP) in May 1949. By the 1949 parliamentary election, the MDP had established a single party state and Soviet-type totalitarian dictatorship. Biszku worked for the Cadre Department of the Budapest Party Committee until 1951, when he was replaced. Following that, he became the secretary of the Party Committee of the Kőbánya branch. He had attended the party's Political College (PF) since September 1953. He was appointed First Secretary of the Angyalföld branch's Party Committee in the Spring of 1955.\n\nDuring the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, he recruited local pro-communist armed groups among party members and workers against the freedom fighters in the first days of the popular uprising. As a result, he was awarded with Medal for Worker-Peasant Power in April 1958, after the suppression of the revolution. Following long years of work in party organizations, Biszku sprang into prominence after the events of 1956.\n\nBetween 1957 and 1961 he served as Minister of the Interior in the government of János Kádár. In this capacity, he became known for the severity he showed in suppressing and punishing after the 1956 revolution, which was one of the largest revolt against the communist government in the Eastern Bloc and its Soviet-imposed policies, was defeated. Between 1961–1962 Biszku became the deputy prime minister, alongside Antal Apró, Jenő Fock and Gyula Kállai. He was replaced by Lajos Fehér on 27 November 1962. Biszku was also elected Member of Parliament during the 1958 parliamentary election, representing Constituency I in Szabolcs-Szatmár County. He was MP until April 1971, when did not stand for re-election in the 1971 parliamentary election. From 1962 until 1978, he was the Secretary of the Central Committee of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party (MSZMP).\n\nBiszku, as a hard-line communist, strongly opposed the New Economic Mechanism (ÚGM) which was imposed by the Kádár regime in 1968 and contained \"capitalist elements\". In 1972, together with Zoltán Komócsin, and other fellow communists, he became involved in a plot to force János Kádár to resign from virtually all of his public functions in an effort to return Hungary to a more orthodox Soviet-style line. To achieve his goals, Biszku tried to convince Yuri Andropov of the rightness of his cause, who immediately alerted Kádár. Afterwards Kádár slowly removed Biszku from power. Biszku was again MP between 1975 and 1985, representing Constituency II in Szabolcs-Szatmár County.\n\nHe was forced into retirement in 1978, when Károly Németh replaced him as Secretary of the Central Committee. From 1980 to 1989, he served as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the National Council of Trade Unions (SZOT). The MSZMP's leadership adopted a new electoral system for the 1985 parliamentary election which imposed a multiple candidacy system in each constituency. Biszku was defeated by another MSZMP member and lost his parliamentary seat.\n\nFrom 1989, the end of communism and transition to democracy until 2011, he successfully evaded any kind of prosecution for human rights abuses committed under the Kádár regime while living in relative obscurity, and sought to portray the regime in a favorable light.\n\nIn the summer of 2008, Hungarian blogger and documentary filmmaker Fruzsina Skrabski published a post with the title \"Kommunisták, reszkessetek!\", where she announced a search for still living former Communist politicians. Skrabski and Tamás Novák presented themselves as members of a non-existent local organization to Biszku, claiming that they intended to make a movie about him, \"Márokpapi's famous son\". They disclosed their true intention only during their last meeting, after organizing a fake celebration with background performers in the village. At first, Biszku did not reject his contribution and answered sensitive political questions also. There, Biszku called the 1956 revolution a \"counter-revolution\" and added he had not felt any regret or remorse for the death penalties and retaliatory measures. He also said that Imre Nagy, prime minister of the revolution, had \"deserved his fate\".\n\nBiszku first consented to the premiere but after major media coverage, withdrew his permission. His family also protested against screening in a cinema in Budapest. The documentary movie entitled \"Crime Without Punishment\" was screened in June 2010. Later, Biszku's daughters, after seeing the movie contributed to the projection. The parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media also supported the screening and the national assembly later adopted a law that historical documentaries in general should not be banned from public showing on grounds of rights to privacy.\n\nThe National Assembly adopted a so-called \"lex Biszku\" bill, which aims to prosecute former leading communist politicians and law enforcement officials who are seen as responsible for the deterring of the 1956 uprising. Gergely Gulyás told a press conference in October 2011 that the bill is constitutional and consistent with international law.\n\nA criminal investigation against Biszku was opened in 2011. He is being charged with \"denial of communist crimes\" that may result in a three-year jail sentence.\n\nOn 10 September 2012, Biszku was placed under house arrest on charge of suspicion of committing war crimes. He is the first politician of the 1956 Communist leadership to face a criminal inquiry. He is accused of failing to protect civilians in wartime. In addition, he needs to hold responsibility for ordering the security forces to open fire on crowds. In case, he is found guilty of the charges brought up against him, which he himself has denied, he could face a life imprisonment.\n\nHis trial was scheduled to begin on 18 March 2014. On May 13, 2014, he has been found guilty of war crimes during the suppression of the 1956 uprising. He was convicted of ordering security forces to open fire on civilians, killing 49 people, and was sentenced to five years and six months in prison. Biszku was also found guilty of other charges, including \"denial of communist crimes\". However, the Metropolitan Court of Appeals set aside the first degree sentence and ordered a new trial on 1 June 2015. The Court of Appeals argued that there were \"essential and substantive differences between establishing historical responsibility and criminal responsibility.\"\n\nDuring the repeat procedure, the Metropolitan Court of Budapest sentenced Biszku to two years in prison, suspended for three years for complicity in war crimes on 17 December 2015. The court also ruled, however, that there was insufficient evidence that Biszku as Minister of the Interior and member of the MSZMP's so-called Provisional Executive Committee had issued the order to fire on 49 protesters in Salgótarján in December 1956 or beat up academics in March 1957.\n\nBiszku died in Budapest on 31 March 2016 at the age of 94, before the potential sentence of the repeat procedure's second degree. Fruzsina Skrabski, who made that documentary film which brought Biszku's impunity and high pension salary to the surface, said the Hungarian jurisdiction \"are awaiting his death [...] to prevent the start of an avalanche [...] with regard to the impeachment of former high-ranking Communist politicians.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "549159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549159", "title": "CRYPTREC", "text": "CRYPTREC\n\nCRYPTREC is the Cryptography Research and Evaluation Committees set up by the Japanese Government to evaluate and recommend cryptographic techniques for government and industrial use. It is comparable in many respects to the European Union's NESSIE project and to the Advanced Encryption Standard process run by NIST in the U.S..\n\nThere is some overlap, and some conflict, between the NESSIE selections and the CRYPTREC draft recommendations. Both efforts include some of the best cryptographers in the world therefore conflicts in their selections and recommendations should be examined with care. For instance, CRYPTREC recommends several 64 bit block ciphers while NESSIE selected none, but CRYPTREC was obliged by its terms of reference to take into account existing standards and practices, while NESSIE was not. Similar differences in terms of reference account for CRYPTREC recommending at least one stream cipher, RC4, while the NESSIE report specifically said that it was \"notable\" that they had not selected any of those considered. RC4 is widely used in the SSL/TLS protocols; nevertheless, CRYPTREC recommended that it only be used with 128-bit keys. Essentially the same consideration led to CRYPTREC's inclusion of 160-bit message digest algorithms, despite their suggestion that they be avoided in new system designs. Also, CRYPTREC was unusually careful to examine variants and modifications of the techniques, or at least to discuss their care in doing so; this resulted in particularly detailed recommendations regarding them.\n\nCRYPTREC includes members from Japanese academia, industry, and government. It was started in May 2000 by combining efforts from several agencies who were investigating methods and techniques for implementing 'e-Government' in Japan. Presently, it is sponsored by\n\nIt is also the organization providing technical evaluation and recommendations in regard to regulations implementing Japanese laws: examples include that on Electronic Signatures and Certification Services (Law 102 of FY2000, taking effect as from April 2001), the Basic Law on the Formulation of an Advanced Information and Telecommunications Network Society of 2000 (Law 144 of FY2000), and the Public Individual Certification Law of December 2002. Furthermore, CRYPTEC has responsibilities with regard to the Japanese contribution to the ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC27 standardization effort.\n\nFirst release in 2003, many Japanese ciphers were selected for \"e-Government Recommended Ciphers List\"; CIPHERUNICORN-E (NEC), Hierocrypt-L1 (Toshiba), MISTY1 (Mitsubishi Electric) as 64 bit block ciphers, Camellia (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, Mitsubishi Electric), CIPHERUNICORN-A (NEC), Hierocrypt-3 (Toshiba), SC2000(Fujitsu) as 128 bit block ciphers, MUGI, MULTI-S01 (Hitachi) as stream ciphers.\n\nRevised release in 2013, list was divided to three, \"e-Government Recommended Ciphers List\", \"Candidate Recommended Ciphers List\", and \"Monitored Ciphers List\". Most of Japanese ciphers listed in previous list (except for Camellia) have moved from \"Recommended Ciphers List\" to \"Candidate Recommended Ciphers List\". There were several new proposals like CLEFIA (Sony) as 128 bit block cipher, KCipher-2 (KDDI), Enocoro-128v2 (Hitachi) as stream ciphers, however, only KCipher-2 has been listed on \"e-Government Recommended Ciphers List\". The reason why most of Japanese ciphers have not been selected as \"Recommended Ciphers\" is not that these ciphers are unsafe, but that these ciphers are not widely used in commercial products, open-source projects, governmental systems, international standards. There is possibility that ciphers listed on \"Candidate Recommended Ciphers List\" will be moved to \"e-Government Recommended Ciphers List\" when they are used in many systems.\n\nIn addition, 128 bit RC4 and SHA-1 are listed on \"Monitored Ciphers List\". These are unsafe and only permitted to keep compatibilities with old systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27885083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27885083", "title": "California Desert Protection Act of 1994", "text": "California Desert Protection Act of 1994\n\nThe California Desert Protection Act of 1994 is a federal law (), signed by President Bill Clinton, and passed by the United States Congress on October 8, 1994, that established the Death Valley and Joshua Tree National Parks and the Mojave National Preserve in the California desert.\n\nDesignated 69 wilderness areas as additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System within the California Desert Conservation Area (CDCA), the Yuma District, the Bakersfield District, and the California Desert District of the Bureau of Land Management. Permits grazing in such areas.\n\nThe Act abolished Death Valley National Monument, established in 1933 and 1937, and incorporated its lands into a new Death Valley National Park administered as part of the National Park System. Grazing of domestic livestock was permitted to continue at no more than the then-current level. The Act also required the Secretary of the Interior to study the suitability of lands within and outside the boundaries of the park as a reservation for the Timbisha Shoshone Tribe.\n\nThe Act abolished Joshua Tree National Monument, established in 1936, and incorporated its lands into Joshua Tree National Park.\n\nThe Act established the Mojave National Preserve, consisting of approximately , and abolished the East Mojave National Scenic Area, which was designated in 1981. The preserve was to be administered in accordance with National Park System laws. Hunting, fishing and trapping were permitted as allowed by federal and state laws, with certain exceptions. Mining claims were governed by the National Park System laws, and grazing was permitted to continue at no more than the then-current level.\n\nThe Act required the Secretary of the Interior to ensure that indigenous people have access to the lands designated under the Act for traditional cultural and religious purposes, in recognition of their prior use of these lands for these purposes. Upon the request of an indigenous tribe or religious community, the Secretary must temporarily close specific portions to the general public to protect the privacy of traditional cultural and religious activities.\n\nFlights by military aircraft over the lands designated by the Act were not restricted or precluded, including overflights that can be seen or heard from these lands.\n\nThe Act authorized Congress to appropriate to the National Park Service and the Bureau of Land Management, for the fiscal year 1995-1999 period, sums not to exceed $36,000,000 more than that provided in fiscal year 1994 for additional administrative and construction costs, and $300,000,000 for land acquisition costs...\n\nCongress found that federally owned desert lands of southern California constitute a public wildland resource of extraordinary and inestimable value for current and future generations; these desert wildlands have unique scenic, historical, archeological, environmental, ecological, wildlife, cultural, scientific, educational and recreational values; the California desert public land resources are threatened by adverse pressures which impair their public and natural values; the California desert is a cohesive unit posing difficult resource protection and management challenges; statutory land unit designations are necessary to protect these lands. \n\nCongress declared as its policy that appropriate public lands in the California desert must be included within the National Park System and the National Wilderness Preservation System in order to preserve the unrivaled scenic, geologic and wildlife values of these lands; perpetuate their significant and diverse ecosystems; protect and preserve their historical and cultural values; provide opportunities for compatible outdoor public recreation, protect and interpret ecological and geological features, maintain wilderness resource values, and promote public understanding and appreciation; retain and enhance opportunities for scientific research in undisturbed ecosystems.\n\nBill introduced by U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein.\nThe bill passes the Senate cloture vote, 68-23.\nThe bill is signed into law by President Bill Clinton.\n\n"}
{"id": "20150075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20150075", "title": "Commissioner of the Republic (Provisional Government)", "text": "Commissioner of the Republic (Provisional Government)\n\nThe Commissioners of the Republic (\"commissaires de la République\") or Regional Commissioners of the Republic (CRR) were government officials appointed as representatives of Charles de Gaulle by the Provisional Government of the French Republic (GPRF) between 1944 and 1946. They had a rank equivalent to that of minister (like other commissioners of the GPRF) and were charged with re-establishing Republican legality and freedoms and the state's authority after the Liberation of France, answering only to de Gaulle. Most of them originated from Free French Forces, though some also came from the French Resistance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6039094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6039094", "title": "Cooling center", "text": "Cooling center\n\nA cooling center is an air-conditioned public space set up by local authorities to temporarily deal with the health effects of a heat wave. Cooling centers are meant to prevent hyperthermia caused by heat, humidity, and poor air quality. Cooling centers provide shade, water, and restrooms; medical attention and referrals to social services may also be offered. Their services are aimed at the homeless, at-risk populations such as the elderly, and those without air conditioning.\n\nAs the danger of heat waves has risen in the public consciousness, cooling centers are increasingly used in larger cities such as New York City, Chicago, Boston, and Toronto, as well as less urban population areas. Cooling centers may also be used in places like Portland and Seattle where home air conditioning is rare but summer can bring temperatures exceeding for several days. Similarly, during the 2018 European heat wave and fires that reached northern Scandinavia, a supermarket in Finland was temporarily used as a cooling center.\n\nThey are usually sited at multiple locations throughout a municipality, such as public libraries, community centers, senior centers, and police stations. Another health measure sometimes taken during heat waves is to extend operational hours at public beaches and swimming pools.\n"}
{"id": "36905809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36905809", "title": "East vs. West – A Hearts of Iron Game", "text": "East vs. West – A Hearts of Iron Game\n\nEast vs. West – A Hearts of Iron Game was a planned grand strategy wargame set during the Cold War era between 1946–1991.\n\n\"East vs. West\" was not an expansion for \"Hearts of Iron III\", but rather intended as a standalone game.\n\n\"East vs. West\", like many of its predecessors in the \"Hearts of Iron\" series, would have allowed for the player to take control of and manage a country including its political, diplomatic, espionage, economic, military, and technological aspects. In contrast to previous installments in the \"Hearts of Iron\" series, the game was to be set in the Cold War era, and not focus mainly on large-scale warfare. The use of nuclear weapons in game would have been possible, but limited by a nation's state of emergency.\n\nThe main focus of the game were the diplomatic, political, economic, military and espionage aspects of countries during the Cold War period and the decisions the player make in regards to them.\n\nConfirmed features included:\n\nThe game was expected to retain many features included in \"Hearts of Iron III\", such as control over the armed forces, the strategic warfare system, user mods-friendliness, and a multiplayer system with up to 32 players.\n\nNo release date was scheduled for \"East vs. West\" after the initial Q1 2013 release date was missed, though following a decision to cut major features including multiplayer functionality from the game, Paradox hoped to offer a pay-what-you-want public beta in March 2014. The cancellation of \"East vs. West\" was announced in a joint statement on 6 March 2014 by BL Logic and Paradox Interactive, citing multiple delays in the project.\n"}
{"id": "10082018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10082018", "title": "Election recount", "text": "Election recount\n\nAn election recount is a repeat tabulation of votes cast in an election that is used to determine the correctness of an initial count. Recounts will often take place in the event that the initial vote tally during an election is extremely close.\n\nElection recounts will often result in changes in contest tallies. Errors can be found or introduced from human factors, such as transcription errors, or machine errors, such as misreads of paper ballots. Alternately, tallies may change because of a reinterpretation of voter intent. \n\nOf the 4,687 statewide general elections held from 2000 to 2015, 27 were followed by a recount, and only three resulted in a change of outcome from the original count: Washington gubernatorial election, 2004, Vermont Auditor of Accounts election, 2006, and United States Senate election in Minnesota, 2008.\n\nA machine recount is a retabulation of ballots cast during the election. This can be done using an optical scan voting system, punched card system or DRE voting machine. With document-based Ballot Voting Systems, ballots are counted a second time by some form of machine. With Non-document-based Ballot Voting Systems officials will recollect vote data from each voting machine which will be combined by a central tabulation system.\n\nA manual or \"hand\" recount involves each individual physical representation of voter intent being reviewed for voter intent by one or more individuals. \n\nWith DRE voting machines, a voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) is examined from each voter. For some DREs that do not generate a VVPAT, images can be printed for each ballot cast and counted individually.\n\nRecounts can be mandatory or optional. In some jurisdictions, recounts are mandatory in the event the difference between the top two candidates is less than a percentage of votes cast or of a fixed number. Mandatory recounts are paid for by the elections official, or the state. Mandatory recounts can usually be waived by the apparent losing candidate. The winning side will usually encourage the loser to waive the recount in a show of unity and to avoid spending taxpayer money.\n\nEach jurisdiction has different criteria for optional recounts. Some areas permit recounts for any office or measure, while others require that the margin of victory be less than a certain percentage before a recount is allowed. In all instances, optional recounts are paid for by the candidate, their political party, or, in some instances, by any interested voter. The person paying for the recount has the option to stop the recount at any time. If the recount reverses the election, the jurisdiction will then pay for the recount.\n\nLoosely called \"recounts\" are actually first counts of various kinds of votes like those cast with absentee ballots and provisional ballots. Because they occur after regular ballots are counted and because most elections are not close enough for these other ballots to affect the outcome, when these additional ballots are being tabulated, many media sources incorrectly call them \"recounts.\"\n\n\nIt is possible for a defeated candidate denied a recount by the Returning Officer, to request one from the court by means of an election petition. There are several cases where a Parliamentary election has been the subject of a court-ordered recount.\n\n"}
{"id": "29068309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29068309", "title": "Evasion (network security)", "text": "Evasion (network security)\n\nIn network security, evasion is bypassing an information security device in order to deliver an exploit, attack, or other form of malware to a target network or system, without detection. Evasions are typically used to counter network-based intrusion detection and prevention systems (IPS, IDS) but can also be used to by-pass firewalls and defeat malware analysis. A further target of evasions can be to crash a network security device, rendering it in-effective to subsequent targeted attacks.\n\nEvasions can be particularly nasty because a well-planned and implemented evasion can enable full sessions to be carried forth in packets that evade an IDS. Attacks carried in such sessions will happen right under the nose of the network and service administrators.\n\nThe security systems are rendered ineffective against well-designed evasion techniques, in the same way a stealth fighter can attack without detection by radar and other defensive systems.\n\nA good analogy to evasions is a system designed to recognize keywords in speech patterns on a phone system, such as “break into system X”. A simple evasion would be to use a language other than English, but which both parties can still understand, and wishfully a language that as few people as possible can talk.\n\nVarious advanced and targeted evasion attacks have been known since the mid-1990s:\n\n\nThe 1997 article mostly discusses various shell-scripting and character-based tricks to fool an IDS. The Phrack Magazine article and the technical report from Ptacek et al. discusses TCP/IP protocol exploits, evasions and others. More recent discussions on evasions include the report by Kevin Timm.\n\nThe challenge in protecting servers from evasions is to model the end-host operation at the network security device, i.e., the device should be able to know how the target host would interpret the traffic, and if it would be harmful, or not. A key solution in protecting against evasions is traffic normalization at the IDS/IPS device.\n\nLately there has been discussions on putting more effort on research in evasion techniques. A presentation at Hack.lu discussed some potentially new evasion techniques and how to apply multiple evasion techniques to by-pass network security devices.\n\nSingh, Abhishek. \"Evasions In Intrusion Prevention Detection Systems\". Virus Bulletin. Retrieved 1 April 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "35179211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35179211", "title": "Fire from the Heartland", "text": "Fire from the Heartland\n\nFire From the Heartland: the Awakening of the Conservative Woman is a 2010 American documentary film written and directed by former Breitbart News LLC executive chairman Steve Bannon, and produced by David N. Bossie for Citizens United Productions. The documentary stars Michele Bachmann, Deneen Borelli, and Ann Coulter, and focuses on female participation in conservative politics. \n\nBannon was inspired to create the documentary after seeing former Alaskan governor Sarah Palin run as John McCain's vice president running mate in the 2008 United States presidential election. In exploring the Tea Party movement, the film interviews only women. The sole male voice heard in the film is from a clip of an on-air rant by CNBC's Rick Santelli from a February 2009 broadcast.\n\nThe documentary looks at the idea of the conservative political female in the United States and how they have impacted and been impacted by the Tea Party movement. Bannon interviews women from different socioeconomic backgrounds and how this has had an effect on their outlook on life and in politics, as well as what they believe what the future will bring and their opinions on how conservative politics and the Tea Party is portrayed in the media.\n\n"}
{"id": "54009114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54009114", "title": "Forza Europa (2017)", "text": "Forza Europa (2017)\n\nForza Europa (translation: \"Forward Europe\", FE) is a liberal and pro-Europeanist political party in Italy.\n\nIts leader and president is Benedetto Della Vedova, an economist and long-time Radical politician, who has been member of the European Parliament for the Bonino List (1999–2004), candidate for President of Lombardy (2000), president of the Italian Radicals (2001–2003), founder and president of the Liberal Reformers (2005–2009), member of the Chamber of Deputies for Forza Italia (2006–2008), The People of Freedom (2008–2011) and Future and Freedom (2011–2013), member of the Senate for Future and Freedom (2013), Civic Choice (2013–2015) and the Mixed Group (2015–2018), and undersecretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Renzi Cabinet (2014–2016) and Gentiloni Cabinet (2016–2018).\n\nThe party took part to the 2018 general election within More Europe (+E).\n\nFE was originally launched as a pro European Union campaign during a convention in Milan on 11 February 2017. The event saw the participation of leading public figures, including Mario Monti, Francesco Rutelli, Emma Bonino (leader of the Italian Radicals, who had recently parted ways from the Transnational Radical Party), Carlo Scognamiglio (leader of The Liberals), as well as some members of the Civics and Innovators (CI) group in the Chamber of Deputies (Andrea Mazziotti, Gianfranco Librandi and Stefano Dambruoso). The campaign soon became a structured association, with an active role played by Piercamillo Falasca and Carmelo Palma, who had been part of Della Vedova's inner circle since the years as Radical.\n\nIn June 2017 Della Vedova introduced FE to the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party (ALDE Party) in Brussels, and, for their part, ALDE leaders had also been trying to unite FE, Civic Choice (SC), the Radicals and other left-leaning liberals, in order to build the Italian section of the ALDE Party, a goal they have long missed, most notably with the SC-dominated European Choice list in the 2014 European Parliament election (0.7% of the vote).\n\nIn July 2017 FE organised a convention in Rome, which was seen as the beginning of its transformation into a full-fledged party. The event was attended by Bonino, Mazziotti, Librandi, Umberto Ranieri and Carlo Calenda (minister of Economic Development).\n\nIn November 2017 FE, the Radicals and some CI members launched More Europe (+E), a pro-Europeanist list for the 2018 general election, led by Bonino. +E was part of the centre-left coalition led by Matteo Renzi and the Democratic Party (PD). The list won 2.6% of the vote in the election, falling short of the 3% threshold, and no FE member was elected neither in single-seat constituencies (Della Vedova missed the election in the constituency of Prato, Tuscany for 1.5% of the vote).\n\nIn April 2018 FE's first assembly elected Della Vedova president, Mazziotti vice president, Falasca secretary and Palma coordinator of the national board.\n\nIn July 2018 +E started to organise itself as a full-fledged party. It was decided that a committee, presided by Gianfranco Spadaccia (a long-time Radical), would lead +E until the founding congress, scheduled for January 2019. The newly-formed committee appointed Della Vedova as coordinator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2591920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2591920", "title": "Free Breakfast for Children", "text": "Free Breakfast for Children\n\nThe Free Breakfast for School Children Program was a community service program run by the Black Panther Party as an early manifestation of the social mission envisioned by founders Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale along with their founding of the Oakland Community School, which provided high-level education to 150 children from impoverished urban neighborhoods. Inspired by contemporary research about the essential role of breakfast for optimal schooling, the Panthers would cook and serve food to the poor inner city youth of the area. Initiated in January 1969 at St. Augustine's Church in Oakland, California, the program became so popular that by the end of the year, the Panthers set up kitchens in cities across the US, feeding over 10,000 children every day before they went to school.\n\nThe Free Breakfast Program became the central organizing activity of the group. The reach and success of the program in so many communities underscored the inadequacies of the federal government's then-flagging and underresourced lunch programs in public schools across the country. Despite its successes, Federal authorities attempted to discredit and derail the Free Breakfast Program. Among other actions, authorities raided breakfast program locations while children were eating. \n\nAs depicted in the 2015 documentary \"\", it was Huey P. Newton, upon release from jail in 1970, who revitalized the breakfast program as a key social focus for the Panthers in Oakland; from exile in Algeria, Eldridge Cleaver protested that prioritizing the breakfast program diluted the true mission of the Black Panther Party, which Cleaver emphasized had to remain an \"any means necessary\" political opposition to U.S. government practices, thus concretizing a schism in the leadership of the Black Panther Party – into Cleaver vs. Newton factions – that led to its eventual demise.\n\nThe Free Breakfast for Children Program was one among more than 60 community social programs created by the Black Panther Party. They were renamed Survival Programs in 1971. These were operated by Party members under the slogan \"survival pending revolution.\" Another Survival Program started by the Black Panther Party was referred to as \"medical self-defense\" with the creation of healthcare clinics and their own ambulance services.\n\nFred Hampton, leader of the Chicago local, helped organize a number of community programs. These included five different breakfast programs on the West Side, a free medical center, a door to door program of health services (which offered testing for sickle cell anemia), and blood drives for the Cook County Hospital. The Chicago party also reached out to local gangs to clean up their acts, get them away from crime and bring them into the class war. The Party's efforts met with wide success, and Hampton's audiences and organized contingent grew by the day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43971338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43971338", "title": "Galician Party of the Proletariat", "text": "Galician Party of the Proletariat\n\nThe Galician Party of the Proletariat (PGP) was a party galician independentist and Marxist-Leninist party formed in March 1978, as a continuation of Galician People's Union-Proletarian Line, a split of the original Galician People's Union. The Central Committee was clandestine, and even the party militants didn't know the members of it. Tha party supported armed struggle, which considered as anti-imperialist and anti-oligarchic. Its official magazine was called Sempre en Galiza.\n\nIn 1979 Galician Unity included, as independent candidates, several militants of the PGP in their lists for the municipal elections. In those elections the PGP got three of its members elected as town councillors (Santiago de Compostela, Monforte de Lemos and Vilaboa). The PGP also constituted a platform that ran the elections in the municipality of Vigo and supported other lists, obtaining 2 town councillors in Salvaterra de Miño. The PGP also presented several lists, under the common name of \"Agrupación Electoral Galicia Ceibe\" in other towns, without gaining any representation.\n\nAfter the local elections, the party formed Galiza Ceibe-OLN as its \"mass front\" and Loita Armada Revolucionaria as its \"armed wing\". The emergence of Loita Armada Revolucionaria caused the police arrest in 1980 of several leaders of the organization, including Xosé Luís Méndez Ferrín. The party also had a remarkable influence in the Intersindical Nacional dos Traballadores Galegos.\n\nThe party stopped working in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "4866515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866515", "title": "General Agent", "text": "General Agent\n\nA General Agent is an agent, i.e., representative of another, who has a mandate of general nature.\n\nIn the Niger Rivers District the only Senior Agent, who administered the region (rather like a Factor) for the National African Company Limited (which was granted a charter and renamed Royal Niger Company Chartered & Limited in 1886), was promoted in 1882 to become the first of only two General Agents until it was absorbed by Southern Nigeria:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "859486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859486", "title": "Geniocracy", "text": "Geniocracy\n\nGeniocracy is the framework for a system of government which was first proposed by Raël (leader of the International Raëlian Movement) in 1977 and which advocates problem-solving, creative intelligence and compassion as criteria for governance.\n\nThe term \"geniocracy\" comes from the word \"genius\", and describes a system that is designed to select for intelligence and compassion as the primary factors for governance. While having a democratic electoral apparatus, it differs from traditional liberal democracy by instead suggesting that candidates for office and the body electorate should meet a certain minimal criterion of problem-solving or creative intelligence. The thresholds proposed by the Raëlians are 50% above the mean for an electoral candidate and 10% above the mean for an elector.\n\nThis method of selectivity is deliberate so as to address what the concept considers to be flaws in the current systems of democracy. The primary object of criticism is the inability of majoritarian consensus to provide a reasonable platform for intelligent decision making for the purpose of solving problems permanently. Geniocracy's criticism of this system is that the institutions of democracy become more concerned with appealing to popular consensus through emotive issues than they are in making long-term critical decisions, especially those that may involve issues not immediately relevant to the electorate. It asserts that political mandate is something far too important to simply leave to popularity, and asserts that the critical decision making required for government, especially in a world of globalization, cannot be based on criteria of emotive or popular decision making. In this respect, Geniocracy derides liberal democracy as a form of \"Mediocracy\". In a geniocracy Earth would be ruled by a worldwide Geniocratic government.\n\nAn early precursor to geniocracy is the political ideas of Plato. Considered to be the first political scientist, Plato believed government should be ruled by \"philosopher kings\" with high intelligence and compassion. His \"Allegory of the Cave\" exemplifies these ideas. He believed the masses to be too uneducated to rule. \n\nPart of the geniocratic agenda is to purport the idea of a world government system, deriding the current state-system as inadequate for dealing with contemporary global issues that are typical of globalisation, such as environmentalism, social justice, human rights, and the current economic system. In line with this, geniocracy proposes a different economic model called Economic Humanitarianism.\n\nAs a response to its controversial attitudes about selectivity one of the more general responses is to point out that universal suffrage, the current system, already discriminates to some degree and varyingly in different countries, in who is allowed to vote. Primarily, this discrimination is against minors, foreigners, incarcerated felons, and the mentally incapacitated. This is on the basis that their ability to contribute to the decision making process is either flawed or invalid for the purpose of the society.\n\nThe current difficulty in the ideas of geniocracy is that the means of assessing intelligence are ill-defined. One idea offered by Raël in \"Geniocracy\" is to have specialists such as psychologists, neurologists, ethnologists, etc., perfect or choose among existing ones, a series of tests that would define each person's level of intelligence. They should be designed to measure intellectual potential rather than accumulation of knowledge.\n\nOther components deemed necessary for a more rounded understanding of intelligence include concepts like emotional intelligence. As such, geniocracy's validity cannot really be assessed until better and more objective methods of intelligence assessment are made available.\n\nThe matter of confronting moral problems that may arise is not addressed in the book \"Geniocracy\"; many leaders may be deeply intelligent and charismatic (having both high emotional/social intelligence and IQ) according to current means of measuring such factors, but no current scientific tests are a reliable enough measure for one's ability to make humanitarian choices (although online tests such as those used by retail chains to select job applicants may be relevant).\n\nThe lack of scientific rigour necessary for inclusion of geniocracy as properly testable political ideology can be noted in number of modern and historical dictatorships as well as oligarchies. Because of the controversies surrounding geniocracy, Raël presents the idea as a classic utopia or provocative ideal and not necessarily a model that humanity will follow.\n\nThe author of \"Geniocracy\" recommends (though does not necessitate) a world government with 12 regions. Inhabitants would vote for which region they want to be part of. After the regions are defined, they are further divided into 12 sectors after the same principle of democracy is applied. While sectors of the same region are defined as having equal numbers of inhabitants, the regions themselves may have different levels of population, which would be proportional to its voting power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41550035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41550035", "title": "Hammarskjöld family", "text": "Hammarskjöld family\n\nThe Hammarskjöld family, also known as Hammarskiöld family, is a Swedish noble family, enrolled in \"Riddarhuset\" (English: \"House of Nobility\") with the number of 135.\n\nThe founder of the family was Peder Mikaelsson (c. 1560–1646), the Governor of Borgholm Castle. He fought for King Sigismund at Stångebro in 1598 and was knighted in 1610 with the name of \"Hammarskiöld\". He was married twice. His first wife was Beata Körning, daughter of the \"slottslov\" (\"castle commander\") Erik Matsson Körning and Kjerstin Hand. His second wife, a cousin of Beata, was Christina Stjerna, the daughter of Peder Månsson Stjerna (number 77 in \"Riddarhuset\") and Karin Hand. The two marriages produced children but the issue from his first wife went out early on the \"sword side\" (\"svärdssidan\", literally \"without any male heirs\").\n\nAs early as 1607 Peder Mikaelsson Hammarskiöld received as his properties the manors in the present Oskarshamn Municipality – Misterhult, Virbo and Fårbo – and, in the present Vimmerby Municipality, Tuna, all in the modern Kalmar County for providing five fully armed men for the defense. Tuna is still a family estate for the Hammarskjölds, and the church there houses the family mausoleum for them. The family was introduced to \"Riddarhuset\" in 1628. The son of the second marriage, Major Arvid Hammarskjöld, married Anna Dorothea Patkull. The Hammarskjöld dynasty continued with their son, Colonel Carl Gustaf Hammarskjöld, who married Baroness Hedvig Ulfsparre of Broxvik, whose mother belonged to the Stake family (number 47 in \"Riddarhuset\").\n\nA younger branch of the family has been partners and managing directors of Skultuna Messingbruk, a Swedish manufacturer of cuff links in Skultuna near Västerås in Västmanland, by intermarriage with the Adlerwald family. In 2014, there are 61 persons who bear the Hammarskjöld or Hammarskiöld surname in Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7351463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7351463", "title": "History of colonialism", "text": "History of colonialism\n\nThe historical phenomenon of colonization is one that stretches around the globe and across time. Modern state global colonialism, or imperialism, began in the 15th century with the \"Age of Discovery\", led by Portuguese, and then by the Spanish exploration of the Americas, the coasts of Africa, the Middle East, India and East Asia. The \nPortuguese and Spanish empires were the first global empires because they were the first to stretch across different continents, covering vast territories around the globe. In 1492, notable Genoese (Italian) explorer Christopher Columbus and his Castilian (Spanish) crew discovered the Americas for the Crown of Castile. The phrase \"the empire on which the sun never sets\" was first used for the Spanish Empire in the 16th century. During the late 16th and 17th centuries, England, France and the Dutch Republic also established their own overseas empires, in direct competition with each other. \n\nThe end of the 18th and early 19th century saw the first era of decolonization, when most of the European colonies in the Americas gained their independence from their respective metropoles. Spain was irreversibly weakened after the loss of their New World colonies, but the Kingdom of Great Britain (uniting Scotland with England and Wales), France, Portugal, and the Dutch turned their attention to the Old World, particularly South Africa, India and South East Asia, where coastal enclaves had already been established. \nThe second industrial revolution, in the 19th century, led to what has been termed the era of New Imperialism, when the pace of colonization rapidly accelerated, the height of which was the Scramble for Africa, in which Belgium, Germany and Italy were also participants.\n\nThere were conflicts between colonizing states and revolutions from colonized areas shaping areas of control and establishing independent nations. During the 20th century, the colonies of the defeated central powers in World War I were distributed amongst the victors as mandates, but it was not until the end of World War II that the second phase of decolonization began in earnest.\n\nEuropean colonization of both Eastern and Western Hemispheres has its roots in Portuguese exploration. There were financial and religious motives behind this exploration. By finding the source of the lucrative spice trade, the Portuguese could reap its profits for themselves. They would also be able to probe the existence of the fabled Christian kingdom of Prester John, with an eye to encircling the Islamic Ottoman Empire, itself gaining territories and colonies in Eastern Europe. The first foothold outside of Europe was gained with the conquest of Ceuta in 1415. During the 15th century, Portuguese sailors discovered the Atlantic islands of Madeira, Azores, and Cape Verde, which were duly populated, and pressed progressively further along the west African coast until Bartolomeu Dias demonstrated it was possible to sail around Africa by rounding the Cape of Good Hope in 1488, paving the way for Vasco da Gama to reach India in 1498.\n\nPortuguese successes led to Spanish financing of a mission by Christopher Columbus in 1492 to explore an alternative route to Asia, by sailing west. When Columbus eventually made landfall in the Caribbean Antilles he believed he had reached the coast of India, and that the people he encountered there were Indians with red skin. This is why Native Americans have been called Indians or red-Indians. In truth, Columbus had arrived on a continent that was new to the Europeans, the Americas.\n\nAfter Columbus' first trips, competing Spanish and Portuguese claims to new territories and sea routes were solved with the Treaty of Tordesillas in 1494, which divided the world outside of Europe in two areas of trade an exploration, between the Iberian kingdoms of Castile and Portugal along a north-south meridian, 370 leagues west of Cape Verde. According to this international agreement, the larger part of the Americas and the Pacific Ocean were open to Spanish exploration and colonization, while Africa, the Indian Ocean and most of Asia were assigned to Portugal.\n\nThe boundaries specified by the Treaty of Tordesillas were put to the test in 1521 when Ferdinand Magellan and his Spanish sailors (among other europeans), sailing for the Spanish Crown became the first European to cross the Pacific Ocean, reaching Guam and the Philippines, parts of which the Portuguese had already explored, sailing from the Indian Ocean. The two by now global empires, which had set out from opposing directions, had finally met on the other side of the world. The conflicts that arose between both powers were finally solved with the Treaty of Zaragoza in 1529, which defined the areas of Spanish and Portuguese influence in Asia, establishing the anti meridian, or line of demarcation on the other side of the world.\n\nDuring the 16th century the Portuguese continued to press both eastwards and westwards into the Oceans. Towards Asia they made the first direct contact between Europeans and the peoples inhabiting present day countries such as Mozambique, Madagascar, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia, East Timor (1512), China, and finally Japan. In the opposite direction, the Portuguese colonized the huge territory that eventually became Brasil, and the Spanish conquistadores established the vast Viceroyalties of New Spain and Peru, and later of Río de la Plata (Argentina) and New Granada (Colombia). In Asia, the Portuguese encountered ancient and well populated societies, and established a seaborne empire consisting of armed coastal trading posts along their trade routes (such as Goa, Malacca and Macau), so they had relatively little cultural impact on the societies they engaged. In the Western Hemisphere, the European colonization involved the emigration of large numbers of settlers, soldiers and administrators intent on owning land and exploiting the apparently primitive (as perceived by Old World standards) indigenous peoples of the Americas. The result was that the colonization of the New World was catastrophic: native peoples were no match for European technology, ruthlessness, or their diseases which decimated the indigenous population.\n\nSpanish treatment of the indigenous populations caused a fierce debate, the Valladolid Controversy, over whether Indians possessed souls and if so, whether they were entitled to the basic rights of mankind. Bartolomé de Las Casas, author of \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\", championed the cause of the native peoples, and was opposed by Sepúlveda, who claimed Amerindians were \"natural slaves\".\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church played a large role in Spanish and Portuguese overseas activities. The Dominicans, Jesuits, and Franciscans, notably Francis Xavier in Asia and Junípero Serra in North America, were particularly active in this endeavour. Many buildings erected by the Jesuits still stand, such as the Cathedral of Saint Paul in Macau and the Santisima Trinidad de Paraná in Paraguay, the latter an example of the Jesuit Reductions. The Dominican and Franciscan buildings of California's missions and New Mexico's missions stand restored, such as Mission Santa Barbara in Santa Barbara, California and San Francisco de Asis Mission Church in Ranchos de Taos, New Mexico.\nAs characteristically happens in any colonialism, European or not, previous or subsequent, both Spain and Portugal profited handsomely from their newfound overseas colonies: the Spanish from gold and silver from mines such as Potosí and Zacateca in New Spain, the Portuguese from the huge markups they enjoyed as trade intermediaries, particarlarly during the Namban Japan trade period. The influx of precious metals to the Spanish monarchy's coffers allowed it to finance costly religious wars in Europe which ultimately proved its economic undoing: the supply of metals was not infinite and the large inflow caused inflation and debt, and subsequently affected the rest of Europe.\n\nIt was not long before the exclusivity of Iberian claims to the Americas was challenged by other up and coming European powers, primarily the Netherlands, France and England: the view taken by the rulers of these nations is epitomized by the quotation attributed to Francis I of France demanding to be shown the clause in Adam's will excluding his authority from the New World.\n\nThis challenge initially took the form of piratical attacks (such as those by Francis Drake) on Spanish treasure fleets or coastal settlements, but later the Northern European countries began establishing settlements of their own, primarily in areas that were outside of Spanish interests, such as what is now the eastern seaboard of the United States and Canada, or islands in the Caribbean, such as Aruba, Martinique and Barbados, that had been abandoned by the Spanish in favour of the mainland and larger islands.\n\nWhereas Spanish colonialism was based on the religious conversion and exploitation of local populations via encomiendas (many Spaniards emigrated to the Americas to elevate their social status, and were not interested in manual labour), Northern European colonialism was bolstered by those emigrating for religious reasons (for example, the \"Mayflower\" voyage). The motive for emigration was not to become an aristocrat or to spread one's faith but to start a new society afresh, structured according to the colonists wishes. The most populous emigration of the 17th century was that of the English, who after a series of wars with the Dutch and French came to dominate the Thirteen Colonies on the eastern coast of the present day United States and other colonies such as Newfoundland and Rupert's Land in what is now Canada.\n\nHowever, the English, French and Dutch were no more averse to making a profit than the Spanish and Portuguese, and whilst their areas of settlement in the Americas proved to be devoid of the precious metals found by the Spanish, trade in other commodities and products that could be sold at massive profit in Europe provided another reason for crossing the Atlantic, in particular furs from Canada, tobacco and cotton grown in Virginia and sugar in the islands of the Caribbean and Brazil. Due to the massive depletion of indigenous labour, plantation owners had to look elsewhere for manpower for these labour-intensive crops. They turned to the centuries-old slave trade of west Africa and began transporting Africans across the Atlantic on a massive scale – historians estimate that the Atlantic slave trade brought between 10 and 12 million African (mostly black skinned) slaves to the New World. The islands of the Caribbean soon came to be populated by slaves of African descent, ruled over by a white minority of plantation owners interested in making a fortune and then returning to their home country to spend it.\n\nFrom its very outset, Western colonialism was operated as a joint public-private venture. Columbus' voyages to the Americas were partially funded by Italian investors, but whereas the Spanish state maintained a tight rein on trade with its colonies (by law, the colonies could only trade with one designated port in the mother country and treasure was brought back in special convoys), the English, French and Dutch granted what were effectively trade monopolies to joint-stock companies such as the East India Companies and the Hudson's Bay Company. Imperial Russia had no state sponsored expeditions or colonization in the Americas, but did charter the first Russian joint-stock commercial enterprise, the Russian America Company, which did sponsor those activities in its territories.\n\nIn May 1498, the Portuguese set foot in Kozhikode in Kerala, making them the first Europeans to sail to India. Rivalry among reigning European powers saw the entry of the Dutch, English, French, Danish and others. The kingdoms of India were gradually taken over by the Europeans and indirectly controlled by puppet rulers. In 1600, Queen Elizabeth I accorded a charter, forming the East India Company to trade with India and eastern Asia. The English landed in India in Surat in 1612. By the 19th century, they had assumed direct and indirect control over most of India.\n\nDuring the five decades following 1770, Britain, France, Spain and Portugal lost many of their possessions in the Americas.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the Seven Years' War in 1763, Britain had emerged as the world's dominant power, but found itself mired in debt and struggling to finance the Navy and Army necessary to maintain a global empire. The British Parliament's attempt to raise taxes from North American colonists raised fears among the Americans that their rights as \"Englishmen\", and particularly their rights of self-government, were in danger.\n\nFrom 1765, a series of disputes with Parliament over taxation led to the American Revolution, first to informal committees of correspondence among the colonies, then to coordinated protest and resistance, with an important event in 1770, the Boston Massacre. A standing army was formed by the United Colonies, and independence was declared by the Second Continental Congress on 4 July 1776.\n\nThe Patriots fought the British in the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783). Formal acts of rebellion against British authority began in 1774 when the Patriot Suffolk Resolves effectively abolished the legal government of the Province of Massachusetts Bay and expelled all royal officials. The tensions caused by this would lead to the outbreak of fighting between Patriot militia and British regulars at Lexington and Concord in April 1775.\n\nThe American War of Independence continued until 1783, when the Treaty of Paris was signed. Britain recognised the sovereignty of the United States over the territory bounded by the British possessions to the North, Florida to the South, and the Mississippi River to the west.\n\nThe Haitian Revolution, a slave revolt led by Toussaint L'Ouverture in the French colony of Saint-Domingue, established Haïti as a free, black republic, the first of its kind. Haiti became the second independent nation that was a former European colony in the Western Hemisphere after the United States. Africans and people of African ancestry freed themselves from slavery and colonization by taking advantage of the conflict among whites over how to implement the reforms of the French Revolution in this slave society. Although independence was declared in 1804, it was not until 1825 that it was formally recognized by King Charles X of France.\n\nThe gradual decline of Spain as an imperial power throughout the 17th century was hastened by the War of the Spanish Succession (1701–14), as a result of which it lost its European imperial possessions. The death knell for the Spanish Empire in the Americas was Napoleon's invasion of the Iberian peninsula in 1808. With the installation of his brother Joseph on the Spanish throne, the main tie between the metropole and its colonies in the Americas, the Spanish monarchy, had been cut, leading the colonists to question their continued subordination to a declining and distant country.\n\nWith an eye on the events of the American Revolution forty years earlier, revolutionary leaders began bloody wars of independence against Spain, whose armies were ultimately unable to maintain control. By 1831, Spain had been ejected from the mainland of the Americas, leaving a collection of independent republics that stretched from Chile and Argentina in the south to Mexico in the north. Spain's colonial possessions were reduced to Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Philippines and a number of small islands in the Pacific, all of which she was to lose to the United States in the 1898 Spanish–American War or sell to Germany shortly thereafter.\n\nBrazil was the only country in Latin America to gain its independence without bloodshed. The invasion of Portugal by Napoleon in 1808 had forced King João VI to escape to Brazil and establish his court in Rio de Janeiro. For thirteen years, Portugal was ruled from Brazil (the only instance of such a reversal of roles between colony and metropole) until his return to Portugal in 1821. His son, Dom Pedro, was left in charge of Brazil and in 1822 he declared independence from Portugal and himself the Emperor of Brazil. Unlike Spain's former colonies which had abandoned the monarchy in favour of republicanism, Brazil therefore retained its links with its monarchy, the House of Braganza.\n\nVasco da Gama's maritime success to discover for Europeans a new sea route to India in 1498 paved the way for direct Indo-European commerce. The Portuguese soon set up trading-posts in Goa, Daman, Diu and Bombay. The next to arrive were the Dutch, the English—who set up a trading-post in the west-coast port of Surat in 1619—and the French. The internal conflicts among Indian Kingdoms gave opportunities to the European traders to gradually establish political influence and appropriate lands. Although these continental European powers were to control various regions of southern and eastern India during the ensuing century, they would eventually lose all their territories in India to the British, with the exception of the French outposts of Pondicherry and Chandernagore, the Dutch port in Travancore, and the Portuguese colonies of Goa, Daman, and Diu.\n\nThe English East India Company had been given permission by the Mughal emperor Jahangir in 1617 to trade in India. Gradually the Company's increasing influence led the \"de jure\" Mughal emperor Farrukh Siyar to grant them \"dastaks\" or permits for duty-free trade in Bengal in 1717. The Nawab of Bengal Siraj Ud Daulah, the \"de facto\" ruler of the Bengal province, opposed British attempts to use these permits. This led to the Battle of Plassey in 1757, in which the armies of the East India Company, led by Robert Clive, defeated the Nawab's forces. This was the first political foothold with territorial implications that the British had acquired in India. Clive was appointed by the Company as its first Governor of Bengal in 1757. This was combined with British victories over the French at Madras, Wandiwash and Pondicherry that, along with wider British successes during the Seven Years' War, reduced French influence in India. After the Battle of Buxar in 1764, the Company acquired the civil rights of administration in Bengal from the Mughal Emperor Shah Alam II; it marked the beginning of its formal rule, which was to engulf eventually most of India and extinguish the Moghul rule and dynasty itself in less than a century.\nThe East India Company monopolized the trade of Bengal. They introduced a land taxation system called the Permanent Settlement which introduced a feudal-like structurea (See \"Zamindar\") in Bengal. By the 1850s, the East India Company controlled most of the Indian sub-continent, which included present-day Pakistan and Bangladesh. Their policy was sometimes summed up as Divide and Rule, taking advantage of the enmity festering between various princely states and social and religious groups.\n\nThe first major movement against the British Company's high handed rule resulted in the Indian Rebellion of 1857, also known as the \"Indian Mutiny\" or \"Sepoy Mutiny\" or the \"First War of Independence\". After a year of turmoil, and reinforcement of the East India Company's troops with British soldiers, the Company overcame the rebellion. The nominal leader of the uprising, the last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, was exiled to Burma, his children were beheaded and the Moghul line abolished. In the aftermath all power was transferred from the East India Company to the British Crown, which began to administer most of India as a colony; the Company's lands were controlled directly and the rest through the rulers of what it called the Princely states. There were 565 princely states when the Indian subcontinent gained independence from Britain in August 1947.\n\nDuring period of the British Raj, famines in India, often attributed to failed government policies, were some of the worst ever recorded, including the Great Famine of 1876–78, in which 6.1 million to 10.3 million people died and the Indian famine of 1899–1900, in which 1.25 to 10 million people died. The Third Plague Pandemic started in China in the middle of the 19th century, spreading plague to all inhabited continents and killing 10 million people in India alone. Despite persistent diseases and famines, however, the population of the Indian subcontinent, which stood at about 125 million in 1750, had reached 389 million by 1941.\n\nLike the other European colonists, the French began their colonisation via commercial activities, starting with the establishment of a factory in Surat in 1668. The French started to settle down in India in 1673, beginning with the purchase of land at Chandernagore from the Mughal Governor of Bengal, followed by the acquisition of Pondicherry from the Sultan of Bijapur the next year. Both became the centres of the maritime commercial activities that the French conducted in India. The French also had trading posts in Mahe, Karikal and Yanaom. Similar to the situation in Tahiti and Martinique, the French colonial administrative area was insular, but, in India, the French authority was isolated on the peripheries of a British-dominated territory.\n\nBy the early eighteenth century, the French had become the chief European rivals of the British. During the eighteenth century, it was highly possible for the Indian subcontinent to have succumbed to French control, but the defeat inflicted on them in the Seven Years War (1756–1763) permanently curtailed French ambitions. The Treaty of Paris of 1763 restored the original five to the French while making it clear that France could not expand its control beyond these areas.\n\nThe beginning of the Portuguese occupation of India can be traced back to the arrival of Vasco da Gama near Calicut on 20 May 1498. Soon after this, other explorers, traders and missionaries followed. By 1515, the Portuguese were the strongest naval power in the Indian Ocean and the Malabar Coast was dominated by them.\n\nThe policy and ideology of European colonial expansion between the 1870s (circa opening of Suez Canal and Second Industrial Revolution) and the outbreak of World War I in 1914 are often characterised as the \"New Imperialism.\" The period is distinguished by an unprecedented pursuit of what has been termed \"empire for empire's sake,\" aggressive competition for overseas territorial acquisitions and the emergence in colonising countries of doctrines of racial superiority which denied the fitness of subjugated peoples for self-government.\n\nDuring this period, Europe's powers added nearly 8,880,000 square miles (23,000,000 km²) to their overseas colonial possessions. As it was mostly unoccupied by the Western powers as late as the 1880s, Africa became the primary target of the \"new\" imperialist expansion (known as the Scramble for Africa), although conquest took place also in other areas — notably south-east Asia and the East Asian seaboard, where Japan joined the European powers' scramble for territory.\n\nThe Berlin Conference (1884–1885) mediated the imperial competition among Britain, France and Germany, defining \"effective occupation\" as the criterion for international recognition of colonial claims and codifying the imposition of direct rule, accomplished usually through armed force.\n\nIn Germany, rising pan-Germanism was coupled to imperialism in the \"Alldeutsche Verband\" (\"Pangermanic League\"), which argued that Britain's world power position gave the British unfair advantages on international markets, thus limiting Germany's economic growth and threatening its security.\n\nAsking whether colonies paid, economic historian Grover Clark argues an emphatic \"No!\" He reports that in every case the support cost, especially the military system necessary to support and defend the colonies outran the total trade they produced. Apart from the British Empire, they were not favored destinations for the immigration of surplus populations.\n\nAfrica was the target of the third wave of European colonialism, after that of the Americas and Asia. Many European statesmen and industrialists wanted to accelerate the Scramble for Africa, securing colonies before they strictly needed them. As a champion of Realpolitik, Bismarck disliked colonies and thought they were a waste of time, but his hand was forced by pressure from both the elites and the general population which considered the colonization a necessity for German prestige. German colonies in Togoland, Samoa, South-West Africa and New Guinea had corporate commercial roots, while the equivalent German-dominated areas in East Africa and China owed more to political motives. The British also took an interest in Africa, using the East Africa Company to take over what are now Kenya and Uganda. The British crown formally took over in 1895 and renamed the area the East Africa Protectorate.\n\nLeopold II of Belgium personally owned the Congo Free State from 1885 to 1908, When round after round of international scandal regarding the abusive treatment of native workers forced the Belgium government to take full ownership and responsibility. The Dutch Empire continued to hold the Dutch East Indies, which was one of the few profitable overseas colonies.\n\nIn the same manner, Italy tried to conquer its \"place in the sun,\" acquiring Somaliland in 1899–90, Eritrea and 1899, and, taking advantage of the \"Sick man of Europe,\" the Ottoman Empire, also conquered Tripolitania and Cyrenaica (modern Libya) with the 1911 Treaty of Lausanne. The conquest of Ethiopia, which had remained the last African independent territory, had to wait till the Second Italo-Abyssinian War in 1935–36 (the First Italo-Ethiopian War in 1895–96 had ended in defeat for Italy).\n\nThe Portuguese and Spanish colonial empire were smaller, mostly legacies of past colonization. Most of their colonies had acquired independence during the Latin American revolutions at the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nIn Asia, The Great Game, which lasted from 1813 to 1907, opposed the British Empire against Imperial Russia for supremacy in central Asia. China was opened to Western influence starting with the First and Second Opium Wars (1839–1842; 1856–1860). After the visits of Commodore Matthew Perry in 1852–1854, Japan opened itself to the Western world during the Meiji Era (1868–1912).\n\nImperialism also took place in Burma, Indonesia (Netherlands East Indies), Malaya and the Philippines. Burma had been under British rule for nearly a hundred years, however, it was always considered an “imperial backwater”. This accounts for the fact that Burma does not have an obvious colonial legacy and is not a part of the Commonwealth. In the beginning, in the mid-1820s, Burma was administered from Penang in Britain’s Straits Settlements. However, it was soon brought within British India, of which it remained a part until 1937. Burma was governed as a province of India, not considered very important, and barely any accommodation was made to Burmese political culture or sensitivities. As reforms began to move India towards independence, Burma was simply dragged along.\n\nThe colonial map was redrawn following the defeat of the German Empire and the Ottoman Empire after the First World War (1914–18). Colonies from the defeated empires were transferred to the newly founded League of Nations, which itself redistributed it to the victorious powers as \"mandates\".\n\nThe secret 1916 Sykes-Picot Agreement partitioned the Middle East between Britain and France. French mandates included Syria and Lebanon, whilst the British were granted Iraq and Palestine. The bulk of the Arabian peninsula became the independent Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1922. The discovery of the world's largest easily accessible crude oil deposits led to an influx of Western oil companies that dominated the region's economies until the 1970s, and making the emirs of the oil states immensely rich, enabling them to consolidate their hold on power and giving them a stake in preserving Western hegemony over the region.\n\nDuring the 1920 and 1930s Iraq, Syria and Egypt moved towards independence, although the British and French did not formally depart the region until they were forced to do so after World War II.\n\nFor Japan, the second half of the nineteenth century was a period of internal turmoil succeeded by a period of rapid development. After being closed for centuries to Western influence, Japan opened itself to the West during the Meiji Era (1868–1912), characterized by swift modernization and borrowings from European culture (in law, science, etc.) This, in turn, helped make Japan the modern power that it is now, which was symbolized as soon as the 1904–1905 Russo-Japanese War: this war marked the first victory of an Asian power against a European imperial power, and led to widespread fears among European populations (first appearance of the \"Yellow Peril\"). During the first part of the 20th century, while China was still subject to various European imperialisms, Japan became an imperialist power, conquering what it called a \"Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere\".\n\nWith the final revision of treaties in 1894, Japan may be considered to have joined the family of nations on a basis of equality with the western states. From this same time imperialism became a dominant motive in Japanese policy.\n\nJapan ruled over and governed Korea and Taiwan from 1895 when the Treaty of Shimonoseki was concluded to 1945 when Japan was defeated. In 1910, Korea was formally annexed to the Japanese Empire. According to the Korean, The Japanese colonization of Korea was particularly brutal, even by 20th-century standards. This brutal colonization included the use of Korean \"comfort women\" who were forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese Army brothels.\n\nIn 1931 Japanese army units based in Manchuria seized control of the region; full-scale war with China followed in 1937, drawing Japan toward an overambitious bid for Asian hegemony (Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere), which ultimately led to defeat and the loss of all its overseas territories after World War II (see Japanese expansionism and Japanese nationalism). As in Korea, the Japanese treatment of the Chinese people was particularly brutal as exemplified by the Nanjing Massacre.\n\nAnticolonialist movements had begun to gain momentum after the close of World War I, which had seen colonial troops fight alongside those of the metropole, and U.S. President Woodrow Wilson's speech on the Fourteen Points. However, it was not until the end of World War II that they were fully mobilised. British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1941 Atlantic Charter declared that the signatories would \"respect the right of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they will live\". Though Churchill subsequently claimed this applied only to those countries under Nazi occupation, rather than the British Empire, the words were not so easily retracted: for example, the legislative assembly of Britain's most important colony, India, passed a resolution stating that the Charter should apply to it too.\n\nIn 1945, the United Nations (UN) was founded when 50 nations signed the UN Charter, which included a statement of its basis in the respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples. In 1952, demographer Alfred Sauvy coined the term \"Third World\" in reference to the French Third Estate. The expression distinguished nations that aligned themselves with neither the West nor the Soviet Bloc during the Cold War. In the following decades, decolonization would strengthen this group which began to be represented at the United Nations. The Third World's first international move was the 1955 Bandung Conference, led by Jawaharlal Nehru for India, Gamal Abdel Nasser for Egypt and Josip Broz Tito for Yugoslavia. The Conference, which gathered 29 countries representing over half the world's population, led to the creation of the Non-Aligned Movement in 1961.\n\nAlthough the U.S. had first opposed itself to colonial empires, the Cold War concerns about Soviet influence in the Third World caused it to downplay its advocacy of popular sovereignty and decolonization. France thus had a free hand in the First Indochina War (1946–54) and in the Algerian War of Independence (1954–62). Decolonization itself was a seemingly unstoppable process. In 1960, after a number countries gained independence, the UN had reached 99 members states: the decolonization of Africa was almost complete. In 1980, the UN had 154 member states, and in 1990, after Namibia's independence, 159 states\n\nThe Soviet Union was a main supporter of decolonization movements. While the Non-Aligned Movement, created in 1961 following the Bandung 1955 Conference, was supposedly neutral, the \"Third World\" being opposed to both the \"First\" and the \"Second\" Worlds, geopolitical concerns, as well as the refusal of the U.S. to support decolonization movements against its NATO European allies, led the national liberation movements to look increasingly toward the East. However, China's appearance on the world scene, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, created a rupture between the Soviet Union and independentists movements. Globally, the non-aligned movement, led by Jawaharlal Nehru (India), Josip Broz Tito (Yugoslavia) and Gamal Abdel Nasser (Egypt) tried to create a block of nations powerful enough to be dependent on neither the United States nor the Soviet Union, but finally tilted towards the U.S.S.R, while smaller independence movements, both by strategic necessity and ideological choice, were supported either by Moscow or by Peking. The Cuban government, led by Fidel Castro after the Cuban Revolution of 1959, was at first neutral before turning itself towards Moscow. Cuba also sponsored independence movements in Angola and Mozambique. Few independence movements were totally independent from foreign aid.\n\nPostcolonialism is a term used to recognise the continued and troubling presence and influence of colonialism within the period we designate as after-the-colonial. It refers to the ongoing effects that colonial encounters, dispossession and power have in shaping the familiar structures (social, political, spatial, uneven global interdependencies) of the present world. Postcolonialism, in itself, questions the end of colonialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32159423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32159423", "title": "Human rights in Tonga", "text": "Human rights in Tonga\n\nTonga is a constitutional monarchy with a population of approximately 130,000. Politics and the economy are dominated by the king, the nobility, and a few prominent commoners. Economic, social and cultural rights are generally well respected. There are, however, a number of issues concerning protection of civil and political rights, particularly freedom of expression, and rights to political participation. Violence against women is a serious issue.\n\nTonga joined the United Nations in 1999. It is party to two of the nine core human rights treaties - the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD). In May 2008, during its Universal Periodic Review (UPR) by the United Nations Human Rights Council, Tonga accepted recommendations to ratify some of the other treaties including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), and the Convention Against Torture (CAT). Although public consultation has taken place in relation to ratification of CEDAW, opponents are concerned and protested that it could open the way for same-sex marriage and abortion.\n\nDomestic human rights protections include a Declaration of Rights in the 1875 Constitution of Tonga. This protects a number of civil and political rights such as prohibition of slavery (clause 2), equality before the law (clause 4), freedom of religion (clause 5), freedom of speech (clause 7), and a number of criminal procedure rights (clauses 9-16). Notable omissions from the Declaration of Rights are the right to life, freedom from torture, freedom from discrimination and comprehensive protections for economic and social rights.\n\nAlong with Palau, Tonga is one of only two countries in the Pacific region (and seven countries in the world) which is yet to ratify the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). In September 2009, the Tongan Legislative Assembly voted 18 to 1 with 4 abstentions not to ratify CEDAW. In announcing the decision not to ratify, the Tongan Prime Minister stated that ratification 'would cut across our cultural and social heritage that makes up the Tongan way of life.' Further, Tonga did not want to ratify with reservations or undertake a 'ratification of convenience.' \n\nIn 2013 Tonga enacted the \"Family Protection Act 2013\". Violence against women appears to be pervasive in Tonga, although there is limited empirical data available. According to the Tongan NGO Legal Literacy Project of the Catholic Women's League, estimates suggest that between 31% and 62% of women are victims of violence by an intimate partner. Marital rape was criminalised in 2013. \n\nWomen are able to lease land, but they are unable to own land. Inheritance to land title passes through male heirs. This is a significant barrier to economic empowerment of women in Tonga.\n\nAlthough the Constitution provides for freedom of speech and of the press, these rights are not always protected in practice. Politicians and media outlets seeking greater democracy often have their rights curtailed. For example, since 2008, the board of the government-owned Tonga Broadcasting Commission has directed that all programming be reviewed by TBC appointed censors prior to broadcast. There are also a number of cases where attempts to limit media freedom have been challenged. See for example, \"Utoikamanu v Lali Media Group Ltd\" and \"Taione v Kingdom of Tonga\".\n\nAn ongoing issue in Tonga for many years has been the absence of full representative democracy. After a process of constitutional reform, in the November 2010 elections, a majority of the seats (17 out of 26) in the Tongan Parliament were elected by universal suffrage, with the remaining nine seats being reserved for members of Tonga's nobility. This marked a shift away from the 165-year rule of the monarchy towards a fully representative democracy. The Taimi Media Network described it as \"Tonga’s first democratically elected Parliament\".\n\nSodomy is illegal in Tonga, with a maximum penalty of 10 years' imprisonment, although there have been no prosecutions for such offences in recent years. During its Universal Periodic Review in 2008, Tonga rejected three recommendations from the Netherlands, Canada and the Czech Republic to decriminalise same-sex conduct and one recommendation from Bangladesh to continue to criminalise same-sex conduct. Instead, Tonga noted that “[w]hilst current laws might criminalise certain consensual sexual conduct, Tonga is a Christian society that believes in tolerance and respect across difference. A respect for difference allows the widest margin of appreciation to lawmakers as well as other stakeholders and encourages robust debate about equality within society.” This response leaves Tonga's position open for future UPR reviews which may eventually result in a positive human rights outcome.\n\nTonga does not have a national human rights institution. There is however a Public Complaints Commissioner who receives and investigates complaints about government departments. The Tongan Government has also indicated that it is considering establishing a national human rights institution.\n\nThe death penalty is legal in Tonga, but has not been imposed since 1982. Tonga is considered an abolitionist in practice. Tonga and Papua New Guinea are the last Pacific Island countries to retain the death penalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "36701872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36701872", "title": "Human rights issues in Northeast India", "text": "Human rights issues in Northeast India\n\nHuman rights issues in northeast India have been widely reported in the press and by human rights activists. Northeast India refers to the easternmost region of India consisting of the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura, as well as parts of northern West Bengal (districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, and Koch Bihar).\n\nAn ongoing separatist struggle has continued in the region since the late 1940s, making it the longest running separatist struggle in South Asia. There are multiple parties involved in the struggles including different ethnic groups and states, some of whom want total independence from India while others call for a restructuring of the states.\n\nThere are existing territorial conflicts within the Northeastern states, including between Manipur and Nagaland, Nagaland and Assam, Meghalaya and Assam, and Mizoram and Assam. These are often based on historical border disputes and differing ethnic, tribal or cultural affinities. There has been a number of insurgent activities and regional movements in all parts of the northeast, often unique in character to each state. Military action by the armed and paramilitary forces and political action have led to the intensity of these insurgencies fluctuating and to the resolution of the insurgency in Mizoram.\n\nHuman rights abuses on the part of Indian forces in the area are frequently traced to immunity granted to Indian security forces under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958. The act has been criticized by Human Rights Watch as a \"tool of state abuse, oppression and discrimination\".\n\nThe South Asian Human Rights Documentation Centre argues that the governments' call for increased force is part of the problem.\nA report by the Institute for Defense Studies and Analysis points to multiple occurrences of violence by security forces against civilians in Manipur since the passage of the Act. The report states that residents believe that the provision for immunity of security forces urge them to act more brutally.\n\nViolence broke out between Bodo tribes and Muslim migrant settlers in the Kokrajhar district of Assam on 20 July 2012, leaving at least 45 people dead and approximately 300,000 displaced in the month of July. According to Human Rights Watch, the fighting has led to a strict curfew, with police being given \"shoot at sight\" orders for curfew violators. Multiple police shootings were reported after the order was given.\n\nWomen are mostly raped during army crackdowns where men of the villages or towns are gathered outside their homes and women are forced to stay indoors. Furthermore, most of the rapes go unreported due to the social stigma and fear of backlash.\n\nThe Assam Police between 2006 and 2011 received over 7000 complaints of rape and also 11,553 complaints of kidnappings involving women committed mainly by Army men.\n\n"}
{"id": "854572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=854572", "title": "Jacob Leisler", "text": "Jacob Leisler\n\nJacob Leisler (ca. 1640 – May 16, 1691) was a German-born colonist in the Province of New York. He gained wealth in New Amsterdam (later New York City) in the fur trade and tobacco business. In what became known as Leisler's Rebellion following the English Revolution of 1688, he took control of the city, and ultimately the entire province, from appointees of deposed King James II, in the name of the Protestant accession of William III and Mary II.\n\nBeginning in 1689, Leisler led an insurrection and seized control of the city by taking over Fort James at the lower end of Manhattan. He took over control of the entire province, appointing himself as acting Lieutenant Governor of the Province of New York, which he retained until March 1691, refusing to yield power until the newly appointed governor himself finally arrived. While Leisler claimed to have acted to support the Protestant accession against Jacobite officeholders in New York, he was arrested by the newly appointed governor of New York in March 1691. With opponents active against him, he was condemned and executed in New York City for treason against the English monarchs William III and Mary II. His estate was forfeited to the Crown.\n\nDuring his period of control, Leisler completed a major purchase of property from John Pell, lord of Pelham Manor, to set up a French Huguenot settlement north of Manhattan. This developed as the city of New Rochelle, New York.\n\nLeisler's son and supporters found the trial and conviction most unjust; it was mounted by his enemies. They worked to clear the names of Leisler and Jacob Milborne (his son in law) and for the restoration of their estates to their heirs, which was achieved in 1695 by an act of Parliament. Remains of the two men were reinterred with honors at the Dutch Reformed Church in Manhattan.\n\nLeisler was born in the village of Bockenheim, now a central part of Frankfurt am Main, Germany, in March 1640, the son of Calvinist French Reformed minister Jacob Victorian Leisler. After his father's death in 1651, Leisler was sent to military school.\n\nHe went to New Amsterdam (later New York) in 1660 as a soldier in the service of the Dutch West India Company. Leaving the company's employ soon after his arrival, Leisler engaged in the lucrative fur trade and tobacco trade, and became a wealthy man. New York tax records from 1676 list Leisler as the third wealthiest man in the city.\n\nIn 1674, Leisler was one of the administrators of a forced loan imposed by Anthony Colve. While residing in Albany in 1676, Leisler engaged in a theological dispute with the Rev. Nicholas van Rensselaer, who had been appointed to the Reformed pulpit by James, Duke of York (later King James II). His finances and reputation both suffered from this encounter, as he and a fellow dissenter Jacob Milborne were forced to pay all the costs of a lawsuit they had initiated in the dispute. While on a voyage to Europe in 1678, he was captured by Moorish pirates, and was compelled to pay a ransom of 2,050 pieces of eight to obtain his freedom.\n\nLeisler had endeared himself to the common people by befriending a family of French Huguenots who had been landed on Manhattan island. They were so destitute that a public tribunal had decided they should be sold into slavery in order to pay their ship charges. Leisler prevented the sale by purchasing the freedom of the widowed mother and son before the sale could be held. French Huguenots were arriving in New York as refugees from religious persecution by Catholics in France. Under Thomas Dongan's administration in 1683, Leisler was appointed one of the judges, or \"commissioners,\" of the court of admiralty in New York, a justice of the peace for New York City and County, and a militia captain.\n\nThe English Revolution of 1688 also played out in New York, where people of a wide variety of religious and ethnic backgrounds divided into two well-defined factions. In general, the small shopkeepers, small farmers, sailors, poor traders and artisans allied against the patroons (landholders), rich fur-traders, merchants, lawyers and crown officers. The former were led by Leisler (himself a wealthy man), the latter by Peter Schuyler, Nicholas Bayard, Stephen Van Cortlandt, William Nicolls and other representatives of the aristocratic Hudson Valley families. The Leislerians claimed greater loyalty to the Protestant accession.\n\nIn 1688, Governor Dongan was succeeded by Lieutenant-Governor Francis Nicholson. In 1689, the military force of the city of New York consisted of a regiment of five companies, with Leisler as one of the company captains. He was popular with the men and was probably the only wealthy resident in the province who sympathized with the Dutch lower classes. At that time, the latter were agitated owing to the attempts of the Jacobite office-holders to retain power in spite of the revolution in England and the accession of William III and Mary II to the throne. When news was received that Governor Sir Edmund Andros had been imprisoned in Boston by the opposition, the Leislerians took possession, on May 31, 1689, of Fort James at the southern end of Manhattan Island. They renamed it Fort William and announced their determination to hold it until the arrival of a governor commissioned by the new sovereigns.\n\nOn a report that supporters of King James II were about to seize the fort and massacre their Dutch fellow-citizens, an armed mob gathered on the evening of 2 June 1689 to overthrow the existing government. The cry of \"Leisler\" was raised, and the crowd rushed to his house. At first, he refused to lead the movement, but when the demand was reiterated he acceded, and within an hour received the keys of the fort, which had been seized. The revolutionaries took advantage of the fort containing all the public funds, which return Lieutenant Governor Nicholson demanded in vain.\n\nFour hundred of the new party signed an agreement to hold the fort \"for the present Protestant power that reigns in England,\" while a committee of safety of ten of the city freeholders assumed the powers of a provisional government, of which they declared Jacob Leisler to be the head. They commissioned him as \"captain of the fort.\" In this capacity, he began to repair the fort, strengthening it with a battery of six guns beyond its walls. This was the origin of the public park known as the Battery in Lower Manhattan. Thus began Leisler's Rebellion.\n\nThe aristocrats also favored deposing James, but preferred to continue the provincial government established by his authority rather than risk the danger of an interregnum. Nicholson and the council of the province, with the authorities of the city, headed by Mayor Stephen van Cortlandt, attempted to prevent the uprising, but without effect. Finally, becoming alarmed for his own safety, Lieutenant-Governor Nicholson sailed for England on the 24th of June. The New York City mayor and other officials retired to Albany.\n\nAlbany held out against Leisler's authority for a time. In November, Leisler sent Jacob Milborne to Albany with an armed force to assist in its defense against any Indians. Milborne was directed to withhold aid unless Leisler's authority was recognized. This was refused, and Milborne returned unsuccessful. But after the destruction of Schenectady on February 19, 1690, by the French and their allied Indians, Christian Mohawk among them, Albany submitted to Leisler's authority.\n\nUnder authority of a letter from the home government addressed to Nicholson, \"or in his absence, to such as for the time being takes care for preserving the peace and administering the laws in His Majesty's province of New York,\" Leisler had assumed the title of lieutenant-governor in December 1689. He dissolved the committee of safety, appointed a council, and took charge of the government of the entire province. He appointed Jacob Milborne as Clerk to the Council, Attorney-General, Advocate General and his Secretary. Milborne married Leisler's daughter Mary.\n\nLeisler summoned the first Intercolonial Congress in America, which met in New York on May 1, 1690, to plan concerted action against the French and Native Americans in the ongoing conflict in North America. The congress planned an expedition against Canada. It equipped and dispatched against Quebec the first fleet of men-of-war ever sent from the Port of New York. However, the expedition was unsuccessful.\n\nIn the meantime, Colonel Henry Sloughter had been commissioned Governor of the Province of New York by William and Mary on September 3, 1689, but he did not reach New York until March 19, 1691.\n\nActing on behalf of a group of Huguenots in New York, Leisler brokered the purchase of land upon which they could settle. In 1689 John Pell, Lord of Pelham Manor, officially deeded 6,100 acres (25 km²) to Leisler for the establishment of a Huguenot community north of Manhattan. On September 20, 1689, Leisler donated a third of this land to Huguenot refugees. In addition to the purchase money, Leisler and his heirs and assigns were to yield and pay unto John Pell and his heirs and assigns (Lords of the Pelham Manor) one \"Fat Calf\" yearly, as acknowledgment of their feudal obligation to the Manor. This settlement developed as the city of New Rochelle, New York.\n\nOn January 28, 1691, English Major Richard Ingoldesby, who had been commissioned Lieutenant Governor of the province, landed with two companies of soldiers in Manhattan and demanded possession of Fort James. Leisler refused to surrender the fort without an order from the king or the governor. After some controversy, Ingoldesby attacked the fort on 17 March, during which Leisler's forces killed two of his soldiers and wounded several.\n\nWhen Governor Sloughter finally arrived in New York the following March, he immediately demanded Leisler's surrender. Leisler refused to surrender the fort until he was convinced of Sloughter's identity and the governor had sworn in his council. As soon as the latter event occurred, he wrote the governor a letter resigning his command.\n\nSloughter responded by arresting Leisler and nine of his colleagues, including his son-in-law Jacob Milborne. All but Milborne were released after trial. Leisler was imprisoned, charged with treason and murder. Shortly afterward he was tried and condemned to death. His son-in-law and secretary, Milborne, was condemned on the same charges. Leisler's son and other supporters were outraged by the trials, as they were considered unjust. The judges were the personal and political enemies of the prisoners, and their acts were described as \"gross.\" \n\nGovernor Sloughter was said to have hesitated to sign the death-warrants, but was trying to stabilize politics in the colony and did not have sufficient influence among the elite of New York City. He was said to finally sign the warrants under the influence of wine.\n\nOn the 16 May 1691, Leisler and Milborne were executed. The court had sentenced them to be hanged \"by the Neck and being Alive their bodyes be Cutt downe to Earth and Their Bowells to be taken out and they being Alive, burnt before their faces. . .\" (In fact, the real villain [Robert Livingston] later bragged in writing that the pair were spared the disemboweling and were cut down before dead and decapitated by sword. The crowd then began fighting over their heads to acquire hair as a souvenir.) and by the English law of treason, their estates were forfeited to the Crown. Leisler's son and other supporters appealed for justice from the committee of the Privy Council; it reported that, although the trial was in conformity to the forms of law, they nevertheless recommended the restoration of the estates to their heirs.\n\nIn 1695, by an act of Parliament, achieved through the efforts of Leisler's son and supporters, the names of Jacob Leisler and Milborne were cleared. Leisler's estate was restored to his heirs. Three years later the Earl of Bellomont, who had been one of the most influential supporters of Leisler's son, was appointed as governor of New York. Through his influence the assembly voted an indemnity to Leisler's heirs.\n\nHe married Elsie Tymens, the widow of Pieter Cornelisz van der Veen in 1663.\nAs stated above, Leisler, along with Milborne were executed in New York on 16 May 1691.\n\nSome descendants of Leisler use his surname as a middle name. The most prominent of them is Walther Leisler Kiep, a CDU politician.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "53085558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53085558", "title": "John J. Hicks", "text": "John J. Hicks\n\nJohn J. Hicks was second director of National Photographic Interpretation Center (NPIC). Hicks was appointed as the Director of NPIC in July 1973, after retirement of Arthur C. Lundahl, first director of NPIC. He served as the Director of NPIC from July 1973 to May 1978.\n\nHicks graduated in 1943 from Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota with BA in International Relations. In 1947, he earned MA in International Relations from School of Advanced International Studies, Washington DC.\n\nHicks served as a combat officer in the US Marine Corps from October 1943 to March 1946. After his graduate study, he joined the Department of the Army’s G-2 staff, where he served from September 1947 to April 1952. In April 1952 Hicks joined the Central Intelligence Agency as an intelligence officer in the Office of Current Intelligence, where he served until 1967. He then served in the Office of Strategic Research for two years. Between November 1969 and August 1973, Hicks held the position of Executive Director of the National Photographic Interpretation Center. After his term as director of NPIC, Hicks returned to the CIA as an intelligence officer in the National Foreign Assessment Center. He became deputy director of that center in January 1979.\n\nHicks retired from public service in January 1980. He died on March 29, 1997.\n\nHicks was awarded the Certificate of Merit for his work during the Cuban Missile Crisis. He was also awarded the CIA Intelligence Medal of Merit, the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal, and the CIA Distinguished Service Medal.\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2349516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2349516", "title": "Kirkpatrick Sale", "text": "Kirkpatrick Sale\n\nKirkpatrick Sale (born June 27, 1937) is an independent scholar and author who has written prolifically about political decentralism, environmentalism, luddism and technology. He has been described as having a \"philosophy unified by decentralism\" and as being \"a leader of the Neo-Luddites,\" an \"anti-globalization leftist,\" and \"the theoretician for a new secessionist movement.\"\n\nSale grew up in Cayuga Heights, Ithaca, New York, and would later say of the village that he \"spent most of my first twenty years there, and that has made an imprint on me—on my philosophy, social attitudes, certainly on my politics—that has lasted powerfully for the rest of my life.\" He graduated from Cornell University, majoring in English and history, in 1958. He served as associate editor and editor-in-chief of the student-owned and managed newspaper, the \"Cornell Daily Sun\". Sale was one of the leaders of the May 23, 1958, protest against university policies forbidding male and female students fraternizing and its \"in loco parentis\" policy. Sale and his friend and roommate Richard Fariña, and three others, were charged by Cornell. The protest was described in Fariña's 1966 novel, \"Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me.\" In 1958 he collaborated with Thomas Pynchon on an unproduced futuristic musical called \"Minstrel Island\".\n\nUpon graduating in 1958, Sale married Faith Apfelbaum, who later worked as an editor with Thomas Pynchon, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph Heller and Amy Tan. Faith died in 1999.\n\nSale worked initially in journalism for the leftist journal \"New Leader\", \"a magazine founded in 1924 in part by socialists Norman Thomas and Eugene Debs,\" and \"The New York Times Magazine\", before becoming a freelance journalist. He spent time in Ghana and wrote his first book about it. His second book, \"SDS\", was about the radical 1960s group Students for a Democratic Society. The book \"is still considered one of the best sources on the youth activist organization that helped define 1960s radicalism.\" In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War. Subsequent books explored radical decentralism, bioregionalism, environmentalism, the Luddites and similar themes. He \"has been a regular contributor to progressive magazines like \"Mother Jones\" and \"The Nation\" for the better part of his writing career\" and has continued to write for those publications, as well as for \"The American Conservative\", \"CounterPunch\", \"The New York Review of Books\", and the \"Utne Reader\". Sale presented public affairs programming for WBAI in the early 1980s and has made appearances on alternative radio over the years.\nSale has donated 16 boxes of materials—typescripts, galley proofs, correspondence, etc.—for each one of his books to the archives at Cornell University, where they are available for public inspection.\n\nIn his 1990 book, \"The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher Columbus and the Columbian Legacy\", Sale argued that Christopher Columbus was an imperialist bent on conquest from his first voyage. In a \"New York Times\" book review, historian and member of the Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Committee William Hardy McNeill wrote about Sale: \"he has set out to destroy the heroic image that earlier writers have transmitted to us. Mr. Sale makes Columbus out to be cruel, greedy and incompetent (even as a sailor), and a man who was perversely intent on abusing the natural paradise on which he intruded.\" However, McNeill also declares Sale's work to be \"unhistorical, in the sense that [it] selects from the often cloudy record of Columbus's actual motives and deeds what suits the researcher's 20th-century purposes.\" In McNeill's opinion, Columbus' advocates and detractors present a \"sort of history [that] caricatures the complexity of human reality by turning Columbus into either a bloody ogre or a plaster saint, as the case may be.\"\n\nSale \"has written extensively and skeptically about technology,\" and has said he is \"a great admirer\" of anarchoprimitivist John Zerzan. He has described personal computers as \"the devil's work\" and in the past opened personal appearances by smashing one. During promotion of his 1995 book \"Rebels Against the Future: The Luddites and Their War on the Industrial Revolution\", Sale debated with \"Newsweek Magazine\" senior editor and technology columnist Steven Levy \"about the relative merits of the communications age\".\n\nSale has said that he does not \"care much for popular music outside some of the Tin Pan Alley era tunes of the early 20th century.\" For example, \"he once heard a 'racket' in a nightclub during his left activist days in the 1960s from some 'young man' everyone told him was a 'big deal.' That 'young man' turned out to be Bob Dylan.\" Kirk recalls that \"he'd never heard anything so awful in his life.\"\n\nIn 1995, Sale agreed to a public bet with Kevin Kelly that by the year 2020, there would be a convergence of three disasters: global currency collapse, significant warfare between rich and poor, and environmental disasters of some significant size. The bet was turned into a claim on the FX prediction market, where the probability has hovered around 25%.\n\nSale has been described as \"one of the intellectual godfathers of the secessionist movement.\" He argues that the major theme of contemporary history, from the dissolution of the Soviet Union to the expansion of United Nations membership from 51 in 1945 to nations today, is the breakup of great empires. Some on both left and right call for smaller, less powerful government.\n\nIn 2004, Sale and members of the Second Vermont Republic formed the Middlebury Institute which is dedicated to the study of separatism, secession, and self-determination. Sale is director of the institute. In 2006, Middlebury sponsored the First North American Secessionist Convention, which attracted 40 participants from 16 secessionist organizations and was described as the first gathering of secessionists since the American Civil War. Delegates issued a statement of principles of secession which they presented as the Burlington Declaration.\n\nIn October 2007, \"The New York Times\" interviewed Sale about the Second North American Secessionist Convention, co-hosted by the Middlebury Institute. Sale told the interviewer, \"The virtue of small government is that the mistakes are small as well.\" He went on to say, \"If you want to leave a nation you think is corrupt, inefficient, militaristic, oppressive, repressive, but you don't want to move to Canada or France, what do you do? Well, the way is through secession, where you could stay home and be where you want to be.\" The convention received worldwide media attention.\n\nNews stories about the Second North American Secessionist Convention in 2007 mentioned the controversial Southern Poverty Law Center's allegations that the other co-sponsor, The League of the South, was a \"racist hate group.\" Sale responded, \"They call everybody racists. There are, no doubt, racists in the League of the South, and there are, no doubt, racists everywhere.\" The Southern Poverty Law Center later criticized \"The New York Times\" October 2007 Peter Applebombe interview of Sale for not covering its allegations.\n\nSale wrote the foreword to Thomas Naylor's 2008 book \"Secession: How Vermont and all the Other States Can Save Themselves from the Empire.\" Sale, Thomas Naylor and four others issued \"The Montpelier Manifesto\" in September, 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41997002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41997002", "title": "KonTraG", "text": "KonTraG\n\nThe Law on Control and Transparency in Business () (abbr. KonTraG) is a comprehensive law passed by the German Bundestag on 5 March 1998. It entered into force on 1 May 1998, although some provisions were adopted at later dates. It set new standards of corporate governance for German publicly listed companies. It is similar to the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.\n\nThe aim of the KonTraG is to improve corporate governance in German companies. Several provisions of commercial and company law have been amended by this Act. The KonTraG specifies and expands mainly the provisions of the German Commercial Code and the Stock Corporation Act. KonTraG has extended the liability of the management boards, supervisory boards and auditors in companies. The core of the KonTraG is a regulation that forces corporate management to implement and operate a company-wide early risk identification system, as well as to publish statements on risks and the company's risk structure in the management report of the company financial statements.\n\nSection 91(2) of the Law stipulates that the executive board is required to \"take appropriate measures, in particular to set up a monitoring system so that developments that jeopardize the continued existence of the company are quickly recognized.\" Such \"existence-threatening developments\" usually result from the combined effects of individual risks, which obliges companies to carry out regular risk analysis and risk aggregation. Auditors are also required to review compliance with the new requirements by listed companies, in particular with regard to the existence and operation of a risk management system and the related internal audit activities, and to make them part of the audit report. The basis is the IDW test standard 340 (IDW PS 340).\n\nAdditionally, the law requires the supervisory board to appoint the auditors, to receive the audit reports, and to include the auditors in the board's balance sheet meeting. All members of the supervisory board or the audit committee must be provided with the audit reports.\n\nKonTraG does not exclusively concern public limited companies, but also covers the limited partnership on shares (KGaA) and many limited liability companies (GmbH), in particular if there is a codetermined or optional supervisory board. In contrast, the so-called small AG's are largely exempted from compliance with the KonTraG provisions.\n\nThe establishment and operation of a company-wide risk management system - such as Management Risk Controlling (MRC) - are critically scrutinized and examined by the banks per Basel II. For companies that work on the basis of projects (construction companies, large architectural firms, IT system houses), risk management is therefore also part of the project management tasks.\n\nFurthermore, for the first time, the granting of subscription rights to employees and members of the management board from a contingent capital increase pursuant to Section 192 AktG was placed on a legal footing.\n"}
{"id": "13432424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13432424", "title": "Layered security", "text": "Layered security\n\nLayered security, also known as layered defense, describes the practice of combining multiple mitigating security controls to protect resources and data.\n\nThe term bears some similarity to defense in depth, a term adopted from a military strategy that involves multiple layers of defense that resist rapid penetration by an attacker but yield rather than exhaust themselves by too-rigid tactics. As the incursion progresses, resources are consumed and progress is slowed until it is halted and turned back. The information assurance use of the term \"defense in depth\" assumes more than merely technical security tools deployment; it also implies policy and operations planning, user training, physical access security measures, and direct information assurance personnel involvement in dealing with attempts to gain unauthorized access to information resources. Within a defense in depth security strategy, layered security is regarded by some as merely a delaying tactic used to buy time to bring security resources to bear to deal with a malicious security cracker's activities.\n\nLayered security is an example of the Swiss Cheese model (or \"cumulative act effect\"), used in risk analysis and risk management. In this model, security systems are likened to multiple slices of swiss cheese, stacked side by side, in which the risk of a threat becoming a reality is mitigated by the fact that it must pass through \"holes\" in the defenses (i.e. not be trapped and detected by each different defense), and these defenses are of different kinds, and locations that are \"layered\" behind each other. Therefore, in theory, lapses and weaknesses in one defense do not easily allow a risk to materialize, since other defenses also exist, to prevent a single point of weakness.\n\nFor every category of threat, there should be an effective control deployed to mitigate the threat. Security vendors will sometimes cite differing solutions, but most can be grouped under consumer or enterprise categories:\n\n\n\nAn \"ad hoc\" security strategy, with numerous vendors and an abundance of different, sometimes incompatible security solutions and products can leave gaps in protection, whereas a vertically integrated vendor stack could provide more comprehensive defense. Single-vendor solutions improve interoperability between components of a complete security strategy, and may offer performance and price benefits over a multi-vendor approach.\n\nThe contrasting commercial security product argument is that a \"best of breed\" approach provides more effective protection. While a single vendor's vertically integrated product stack may be the offering of choice for vendors who want to monopolize a client's or customer's business, it could also be argued that each component of a comprehensive security strategy should be evaluated both for its performance within its niche and its open compatibility with other, non-integrated components of the whole.\n"}
{"id": "47555277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47555277", "title": "List of modern great powers", "text": "List of modern great powers\n\nA great power is a nation or state that, through its great economic, political and military strength, is able to exert power and influence over not only its own region of the world, but beyond to others.\n\nIn a modern context, recognized great powers came about first in Europe during the post-Napoleonic era. The formalization of the division between small powers and great powers came about with the signing of the Treaty of Chaumont in 1814.\n\nThe historical terms \"Great Nation\", a distinguished aggregate of people inhabiting a particular country or territory, and \"Great Empire\", a considerable group of states or countries under a single supreme authority, are colloquial; their use is seen in ordinary historical conversations (historical jargon).\n\n\n\nFrance was a dominant empire possessing many colonies in various locations around the world. The Empire of the French (1804–1814), also known as the Greater French Empire or First French Empire, but more commonly known as the Napoleonic Empire, was the empire of Napoleon I in France. It was the dominant power of much of continental Europe during the early 19th Century.\n\nNapoleon became Emperor of the French (L'Empereur des Français) on 18 May 1804 and crowned Emperor 2 December 1804, ending the period of the French Consulate, and won early military victories in the War of the Third Coalition against Austria, Prussia, Russia, Portugal, and allied nations, notably at the Battle of Austerlitz (1805) and the Battle of Friedland (1807). The Treaty of Tilsit in July 1807 ended two years of bloodshed on the European continent. Subsequent years of military victories known collectively as the Napoleonic Wars extended French influence over much of Western Europe and into Poland. At its height in 1812, the French Empire had 130 \"départements\", ruled over 50 million subjects, maintained extensive military presence in Germany, Italy, Spain, and the Duchy of Warsaw, and could count Prussia and Austria as nominal allies.\n\nEarly French victories exported many ideological features of the French Revolution throughout Europe. Napoleon gained support by appealing to some common concerns of French people. These included dislike of the emigrant nobility who had escaped persecution, fear by some of a restoration of the ancien régime, a dislike and suspicion of foreign countries had tried to reverse the Revolution – and a wish by Jacobins to extend France's revolutionary ideals. Seigneurial system of New France and Seigneurial system of New France were abolished, aristocratic privileges were eliminated in all places except Poland, and the introduction of the Napoleonic Code throughout the continent increased legal equality, established jury systems, and legalized divorce. Napoleon placed relatives on the thrones of several European countries and granted many noble titles, most of which expired with the fall of the Empire.\n\nHistorians have estimated the death toll from the Napoleonic Wars to be 6.5 million people, or 15% of the French Empire's subjects. The War of the Sixth Coalition, a coalition of Austria, Prussia, Russia, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Spain and a number of German States finally defeated France and drove Napoleon Bonaparte into exile on Elba. After Napoleon's disastrous invasion of Russia, the continental powers joined Russia, Britain, Portugal and the rebels in Spain. With their armies reorganized, they drove Napoleon out of Germany in 1813 and invaded France in 1814, forcing Napoleon to abdicate and restoring the Bourbons.\n\n\nItaly saw a period of great prosperity during the Renaissance, especially as a result of the Peace of Lodi, but a large part of the peninsula fell under foreign domination after the Italian Wars. Some larger states were able to retain their independence and maintain a significant role for the balance of power.\n\nThe Republic of Florence, later the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, was a major economic and banking power under the rule of the Medici Family. \nThe Popes had great diplomatic impact on catholic monarchs and during the partition of the new world. The State of the Church was first abolished by Napoleon and finally by the Kingdom of Italy in 1870. \nThe Republic of Venice, in control of the rich trade between Europe and the Levant, began a phase of a long, but also gradual and \"golden\", decline. The republic was able to stop the expansion of the Ottoman Empire in various occasions, such as during the battle of Lepanto or the conquest of Morea. Venice lost its independence in 1797 when Napoleon conquered the city and ceded its territories to Austria. \nThe Republic of Genoa benefited from the alliance with Spain, providing economic support to the Habsburgs and managing to retain some of its mediterranean possessions for some time (the period from 1557 to 1627 has been described as the \"age of the Genoese\").\n\n\nThe Qing Dynasty was the last ruling dynasty of China, ruling from 1644 to 1912 (with a brief, abortive restoration in 1917). It was preceded by the Ming Dynasty and followed by the Republic of China. The dynasty was founded by the Manchu clan Aisin Gioro in what is today northeast China (also known as Manchuria). Starting in 1644 it expanded into China proper and its surrounding territories, establishing the Empire of the Great Qing. Complete pacification of China was accomplished around 1683 under the Kangxi Emperor.\n\nThe dynasty changed its name to \"Qing\", meaning \"clear\" or \"pellucid\" around 1636. In 1644 Beijing was sacked by a coalition of rebel forces led by Li Zicheng, a minor Ming official turned leader of the peasant revolt. The last Ming emperor, the Chongzhen Emperor, committed suicide when the city fell, marking the official end of the dynasty. The Manchus then allied with Ming Dynasty general Wu Sangui and seized control of Beijing and overthrew Li's short-lived Shun Dynasty.\n\nDuring its reign the Qing Dynasty became highly integrated with Chinese culture. The dynasty reached its height in the 18th century, during which both territory and population were increased. However, its military power weakened hereafter and faced with massive rebellions and defeats in wars, the Qing Dynasty declined after the mid-19th century. The Qing Dynasty was overthrown following the Xinhai Revolution.\n\n\nThe Safavid Empire was one of the most significant ruling dynasties of Iran. They ruled one of the greatest Iranian Empires after the Muslim conquest of Persia The Safavids ruled from 1501 to 1736 and at their height, they controlled all of modern Iran, Azerbaijan and Armenia, most of Iraq, Georgia, Afghanistan, and the Caucasus, as well as parts of Pakistan, Turkmenistan and Turkey. Safavid Iran was one of the Islamic \"gunpowder empires\". The Safavid empire originated from Ardabil in Iran and had its origins in a long established Sufi order, called the \"Safaviyeh\". The Safavids established an independent unified Iranian state for the first time after the Muslim conquest of Persia and reasserted Iranian political identity, and established Shia Islam as the official religion in Iran.\n\nDespite their demise in 1736, the legacy that they left behind was the revival of Iran as an economic stronghold between East and West, the establishment of an efficient state and bureaucracy based upon \"checks and balances\", their architectural innovations and their patronage for fine arts. The Safavids have also left their mark down to the present era by spreading Shi'a Islam in Iran, as well as major parts of the Caucasus, Mesopotamia, and Anatolia.\n\n\nThe Dutch Republic controlled various territories after the Dutch achieved independence from Spain in the 16th century. Their skills in shipping and trading aided the building of an overseas colonial empire which lasted from the 16th to the 20th century. The Dutch initially built up colonial possessions on the basis of indirect state capitalist corporate colonialism, with the dominant Dutch East India Company. A cultural flowering roughly spanning the 17th century is known as the Dutch Golden Age, in which Dutch trade, science and art were among the most acclaimed in the world. Dutch military power was at its height in the middle of the 17th century and in that era the Dutch navy was the most powerful navy in the world.\n\nBy the middle of the 17th century, the Dutch had overtaken Portugal as the dominant player in the spice and silk trade, and in 1652 founded a colony at Cape Town on the coast of South Africa, as a way-station for its ships on the route between Europe and Asia. After the first settlers spread out around the Company station, nomadic white livestock farmers, or Trekboers, moved more widely afield, leaving the richer, but limited, farming lands of the coast for the drier interior tableland. Between 1602 and 1796, million Europeans were sent to work in the Asia trade. The majority died of disease or made their way back to Europe, but some of them made the Indies their new home. Interaction between the Dutch and native population mainly took place in Sri Lanka and the modern Indonesian Islands. Through the centuries there developed a relatively large Dutch-speaking population of mixed Dutch and Indonesian descent, known as Indos or Dutch-Indonesians.\n\n\nThe empire began in the 17th century as a combination of factors led to its creation, such as the growth in British trade with India and the Far East, the success of the British East India Company, numerous British maritime explorations around the world, and the vast Royal Navy. The British Empire comprised the dominions, colonies, protectorates, mandates, and other territories ruled or administered by the United Kingdom. It originated with the overseas colonies and trading posts established by England in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. At its height it was the largest empire in history and, for over a century, was the foremost global power. It is widely accepted that during the period known as the Pax Britannica the Empire was the most powerful unitary authority in human history due to the unprecedented level of predominance which the United Kingdom experienced at this time.\n\nBritish colonies were created along the east coast of North America during the 17th and 18th centuries but by the late 18th century most of these colonies rebelled against British rule, leading to the American War of Independence and formation of the United States of America. Nevertheless, Great Britain retained significant colonies in Canada, the Caribbean and India, and shortly thereafter began the settlement of Australia and New Zealand. Following France's defeat in the Napoleonic Wars in 1815, Great Britain took possession of many more overseas territories in Africa and Asia, and established informal empires of free trade in South America, China and Persia.\n\n\nThe Mughal Empire was a Turkic-Mongol imperial power from Uzbekistan, that ruled most of the Indian subcontinent in 16th and 17th century. In 1526, Babur, a Timurid descendant of Timur and Genghis Khan from Fergana Valley in Uzbekistan, swept across the Khyber Pass and established the Mughal Empire, which lasted for over 300 years, ruling 1/4 of the world's population at a time.\n\nThe Mughal Dynasty rapidly expanded and ruled most of the Indian subcontinent by 1600; it went into a slow decline after 1707 and was finally defeated during the 1857 War of Independence also called the Indian Rebellion of 1857. The famous emperor Akbar, who was the grandson of Babur, tried to establish an inclusive empire. However, later emperors such as Aurangazeb attempted to expand the empire beyond its previous limitations. \n\nThe Ottoman Empire was a Turkic state, which at the height of its power (16th–17th centuries) spanned three continents (see: extent of Ottoman territories) controlling much of Southeastern Europe, the Middle East and most of North Africa. The empire has been called by historians a \"Universal Empire\" due to both Roman and Islamic traditions.\n\nThe empire was at the center of interactions between the Eastern and Western worlds for six centuries. The Ottoman Empire was the only Islamic power to seriously challenge the rising power of Western Europe between the 15th and 19th centuries. With Istanbul (or Constantinople) as its capital, the Empire was in some respects an Islamic successor of earlier Mediterranean empires—the Roman and Byzantine empires.\n\nOttoman military reform efforts begin with Selim III (1789–1807) who made the first major attempts to modernize the army along European lines. These efforts, however, were hampered by reactionary movements, partly from the religious leadership, but primarily from the Janissary corps, who had become anarchic and ineffectual. Jealous of their privileges and firmly opposed to change, they created a Janissary revolt. Selim's efforts cost him his throne and his life, but were resolved in spectacular and bloody fashion by his successor, the dynamic Mahmud II, who massacred the Janissary corps in 1826.\n\nThe effective military and bureaucratic structures of the previous century also came under strain during a protracted period of misrule by weak Sultans. But in spite of these difficulties, the Empire remained a major expansionist power until the Battle of Vienna in 1683, which marked the end of Ottoman expansion into Europe.\n\nThe Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth was one of the largest, most powerful and most populous countries in 16th, 17th, and 18th century Europe. Its political structure was formed in 1569 by the Union of Lublin, which united the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, and lasted in this form until the adoption of the Constitution of May 3, 1791. In the 16th century, the area of the Commonwealth reached almost 1 million km., with a population of 11 million. Poland-Lithuania was a political, military and economic power.\n\nThe Union possessed features unique among contemporary states. This political system unusual for its time stemmed from the ascendance of the szlachta noble class over other social classes and over the political system of monarchy. In time, the szlachta accumulated enough privileges (such as those established by the Nihil novi Act of 1505) that no monarch could hope to break the szlachta's grip on power. The Commonwealth's political system is difficult to fit into a simple category, but it can be tentatively described as a mixture of:\nThe Polish \"Golden Age\", the period of the reigns of Sigismund I and Sigismund II, the last two Jagiellonian kings, or more generally the 16th century, is most often identified with the rise of the culture of Polish Renaissance. The cultural flowering had its material base in the prosperity of the elites, both the landed nobility and urban patriciate at such centers as Cracow and Danzig. After victories of Dimitriads (Battle of Klushino), Polish forces entering Moscow in 1610, Sigismund's III son, Prince Władysław of Poland, was briefly elected Tsar of Russia. However, soon afterwards, Sigismund III Vasa decided to seize the Russian throne for himself.\n\n\nThe Portuguese Empire was the first global empire in history, and also the earliest and longest-lived of the Western European colonial empires. Portugal's small size and population restricted the empire, in the 16th century, to a collection of small but well defended outposts along the African coasts, the main exceptions being Angola, Mozambique and Brazil. For most of the 16th century, the Portuguese Indian Armadas, then the world leader navy in shipbuilding and naval artillery, dominated most of the Atlantic Ocean south of the Canary Islands, the Indian Ocean and the access to the western Pacific. The height of the empire was reached in the 16th century but the indifference of the Habsburg kings and the competition with new colonial empires like the British, French and Dutch started its long and gradual decline. After the 18th century Portugal concentrated in the colonization of Brazil and African possessions.\n\nThe Treaty of Tordesillas, between Spain and Portugal, divided the world outside of Europe in an exclusive duopoly along a north-south meridian 370 leagues, or , west of the Cape Verde islands. However, as it was not possible at the time to correctly measure longitude, the exact boundary was disputed by the two countries until 1777. The completion of these negotiations with Spain is one of several reasons proposed by historians for why it took nine years for the Portuguese to follow up on Dias's voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, though it has also been speculated that other voyages were in fact secretly taking place during that time. Whether or not this was the case, the long-standing Portuguese goal of finding a sea route to Asia was finally achieved in a ground-breaking voyage commanded by Vasco da Gama.\n\nThe Kingdom of Prussia dominated northern Germany politically, economically, and in terms of population, and was the core of the unified North German Confederation formed in 1867, which became part of the German Empire or \"Deutsches Reich\" in 1871.\n\nPrussia attained its greatest importance in the 18th and 19th centuries. During the 18th century, it became a European great power under the reign of Frederick II of Prussia (1740–86). During the 19th century, Chancellor Otto von Bismarck pursued a policy of uniting the German principalities into a \"Lesser Germany\" which would exclude the Austrian Empire.\n\n\nIn the 16th century Spain and Portugal were in the vanguard of European global exploration and colonial expansion and the opening of trade routes across the oceans, with trade flourishing across the Atlantic Ocean between Spain and the Americas and across the Pacific Ocean between Asia-Pacific and Mexico via the Philippines. Conquistadors toppled the Aztec, Inca, and Maya civilizations, and laid claim to vast stretches of land in North and South America. For a long time, the Spanish Empire dominated the oceans with its navy and ruled the European battlefield with its infantry, the famous tercios. Spain enjoyed a cultural golden age in the 16th and 17th centuries as Europe's foremost power.\n\nFrom 1580 to 1640 the Spanish Empire and the Portuguese Empire were conjoined in a personal union of its Habsburg monarchs, during the period of the Iberian Union, though the empires continued to be administered separately.\n\nFrom the middle of the 16th century silver and gold from the American mines increasingly financed the military capability of Habsburg Spain, then the foremost global power, in its long series of European and North African wars. Until the loss of its American colonies in the 19th century, Spain maintained one of the largest empires in the world, even though it suffered fluctuating military and economic fortunes from the 1640s. Confronted by the new experiences, difficulties and suffering created by empire-building, Spanish thinkers formulated some of the first modern thoughts on natural law, sovereignty, international law, war, and economics — they even questioned the legitimacy of imperialism — in related schools of thought referred to collectively as the School of Salamanca.\n\nConstant contention with rival powers caused territorial, commercial, and religious conflict that contributed to the slow decline of Spanish power from the mid-17th century. In the Mediterranean, Spain warred constantly with the Ottoman Empire; on the European continent, France became comparably strong. Overseas, Spain was initially rivaled by Portugal, and later by the English and Dutch. In addition, English-, French-, and Dutch-sponsored privateering and piracy, overextension of Spanish military commitments in its territories, increasing government corruption, and economic stagnation caused by military expenditures ultimately contributed to the empire's weakening.\n\nSpain's European empire was finally undone by the Peace of Utrecht (1713), which stripped Spain of its remaining territories in Italy and the Low Countries. Spain's fortunes improved thereafter, but it remained a second-rate power in Continental European politics. However, Spain maintained and enlarged its vast overseas empire until the 19th century, when the shock of the Peninsular War sparked declarations of independence in Quito (1809), Venezuela and Paraguay (1811) and successive revolutions that split away its territories on the mainland (the Spanish Main) of the Americas.\n\n\nThe mid-17th and early 18th centuries were Sweden's most successful years as a Great Power. Sweden also had colonial possessions as a minor colonial Empire that existed from 1638 to 1663 and later 1784 to 1878. Sweden reached its largest territorial extent during the rule of Charles X (1622–1660) after the treaty of Roskilde in 1658. However, after more than a half century of almost constant warfare the Swedish economy had deteriorated. It would become the lifetime task of Charles' son, Charles XI (1655–1697), to rebuild the economy and refit the army. His legacy to his son, the coming ruler of Sweden Charles XII, was one of the finest arsenals in the world, a large standing army and a great fleet. Sweden's largest threat at this time, Russia, had a larger army but was far behind in both equipment and training. The Swedish army crushed the Russians at the Battle of Narva in 1700, one of the first battles of the Great Northern War. This led to an overambitious campaign against Russia in 1707, however, ending in a decisive Russian victory at the Battle of Poltava (1709). The campaign had a successful opening for Sweden, which came to occupy half of Poland and making Charles able to claim the Polish throne. But after a long march exposed by cossack raids, the Russian Tsar Peter the Great's scorched-earth techniques and the cold Russian climate, the Swedes stood weakened with a shattered confidence, and enormously outnumbered against the Russian army at Poltava. The defeat meant the beginning of the end for Sweden as an empire.\n\n\nThe Russian Empire formed from what was Tsardom of Russia under Peter the Great. Peter I, (1672–1725), played a major role in bringing his country into the European state system, and laid the foundations of a modern state in Russia. From its modest beginnings in the 14th century, Russia had become the largest state in the world by Peter's time. Three times the size of continental Europe, it spanned the Eurasian landmass from the Baltic Sea to the Pacific Ocean.\n\n\nFrance was a dominant empire possessing many colonies in various locations around the world. The French colonial empire is the set of territories outside Europe that were under French rule primarily from the 17th century to the late 1960s (some see the French control of places such as New Caledonia as a continuation of that colonial empire). In the 19th and 20th centuries, the colonial empire of France was the second largest in the world behind the British Empire. The French colonial empire extended over of land at its height in the 1920s and 1930s. Including metropolitan France, the total amount of land under French sovereignty reached at the time, which is 8.7% of the Earth's total land area.\n\nFrance began to establish colonies in North America, the Caribbean and India, following Spanish and Portuguese successes during the Age of Discovery, in rivalry with Britain for supremacy. A series of wars with Britain during the 18th and early 19th centuries which France lost ended its colonial ambitions on these continents, and with it is what some historians term the \"first\" French colonial empire. In the 19th century, France established a new empire in Africa and South East Asia. Some of these colonies lasted beyond the Second World War.\n\n\nThe British Empire was the largest empire in world history. During the 19th century the United Kingdom was the first country in the world to industrialise and embrace free trade, giving birth to the Industrial Revolution. This rapid industrial growth transformed Great Britain into the world's largest industrial and financial power, while the world's largest navy gave it undisputed control of the seas and international trade routes, an advantage which helped the British Empire, after a mid-century liberal reaction against empire-building, to grow faster than ever before. The Victorian empire colonised large parts of Africa, including such territories as South Africa, Egypt, Kenya, Sudan, Nigeria, and Ghana, most of Oceania, colonies in the Far East, such as Singapore, Malaysia, and Hong Kong, and took control over the whole Indian subcontinent, making it the largest empire in the world.\n\nAfter victory in the First World War, the empire gained control of territories such as Tanzania and Namibia from the German Empire, and Iraq and Palestine from the Ottoman Empire. By this point in 1920 the British empire had grown to become the largest empire in history, controlling approximately 25% of the world's land surface and 25% of the world's population. It covered about 36.6 million km² (14.2 million square miles). Because of its magnitude, it was often referred to as the empire on which the sun never sets.\n\nThe political and social changes and economic disruption in the United Kingdom and throughout the world caused by First World War followed only two decades later by the Second World War caused the empire to gradually break up as colonies were given independence. Much of the reason the empire ceased was because many colonies by the mid-20th century were no longer as undeveloped as at the arrival of British control nor as dependent and social changes throughout the world during the first half of the 20th century gave rise to national identity. The British Government, reeling from the economic cost of two successive world wars and changing social attitudes towards empire, felt it could no longer afford to maintain it if the country were to recover economically, pay for the newly created welfare state, and fight the newly emerged Cold War with the Soviet Union.\n\nThe influence and power of the British Empire dropped dramatically after the Second World War, especially after the Partition of India in 1947 and the Suez Crisis in 1956. The Commonwealth of Nations is the successor to the Empire, where the United Kingdom is an equal member with all other states. \n\n\nAfter the Napoleonic period the Bourbon dynasty was restored in Spain and over the huge number of Spanish territories around the world. But the shock of the Peninsular War sparked declarations of independence in the Latin America controlled by Spain and by 1835 successive revolutions had signed the end of the Spanish rule over the majority of this countries. Spain retained fragments of its empire in the Caribbean (Cuba and Puerto Rico); Asia (Philippines); and Oceania (Guam, Micronesia, Palau, and Northern Marianas) until the Spanish–American War of 1898. Spanish participation in the Scramble for Africa was minimal: Spanish Morocco was held until 1956 and Spanish Guinea and the Spanish Sahara were held until 1968 and 1975 respectively. The Canary Islands, Ceuta, Melilla and the other \"Plazas de Soberanía\" on the northern African coast have remained part of Spain.\n\n\nAfter the Napoleonic era, Austria was one of the main powers in Europe with great influence over Germany, Italy and Eastern Europe. During the second half of the 19th century Austria was not able to prevent the unification of Italy and of Germany by Prussia (excluding the also German Austria) and was also obliged to grant equal partnership in the empire to Hungary. Nonetheless the empire remained one of the major players in European affairs until its destruction after the First World War.\n\n\nThe Kingdom of Prussia dominated northern Germany politically, economically, and in terms of population, and was the core of the unified North German Confederation formed in 1867, which became part of the German Empire or \"Deutsches Reich\" in 1871 when the southern German states, excluding Austria, were added. Prussia attained its greatest importance in the 18th and 19th centuries. During the 19th century, Chancellor Otto von Bismarck pursued a policy of uniting the German principalities into a \"Lesser Germany\" which would exclude the Austrian Empire.\n\nGermany rose again in world power status during the Third Reich (or Nazi Germany) under the dictatorship of Adolf Hitler between 1933 and 1945. It seized Austria and Czechoslovakia, and invaded Poland which launched World War II in Europe. In alliance with Italy and smaller Axis powers, Germany conquered most of Europe by 1940. Following the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, the tide turned against the Third Reich as it suffered major military defeats in 1943; Germany was fully defeated by 1945.\n\n\nThe Ottoman Empire during the 19th century was still a considerable power, with a great extension of territories over Europe, Asia and Africa; but the empire was in a condition of decline and during this period lost progressively its influence, and the majority of his territories were conquered by other powers. The empire ended during the First World War in 1918 when the Republic of Turkey was proclaimed.\n\n\nThe Russian Empire as a state, existed from 1721 until it was declared a republic 1 September 1917. The Russian Empire was the successor to the Tsardom of Russia and the predecessor of the Soviet Union. It was one of the largest empires in world history, surpassed in landmass only by the British and Mongolian empires: at one point in 1866, it stretched from eastern Europe across Asia and into North America.\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century the Russian Empire extended from the Arctic Ocean in the north to the Black Sea on the south, from the Baltic Sea on the west to the Pacific Ocean on the east. With 125.6 million subjects registered by the 1897 census, it had the third largest population of the world at the time, after Qing China and the British Empire. Like all empires it represented a large disparity in economic, ethnic, and religious positions. Its government, ruled by the Emperor, was one of the last absolute monarchies in Europe. Prior to the outbreak of World War I in August 1914 Russia was one of the five major Great Powers of Europe. After the October revolution it was transformed into the Soviet Union.\n\nFollowing the death of the first Soviet leader, Vladimir Lenin, in 1924, Joseph Stalin eventually won a power struggle and led the country through a large-scale industrialization with a command economy and political repression. In World War II, in June 1941, Germany and its allies invaded the Soviet Union, a country with which it had signed a non-aggression pact. After four years of brutal warfare, the Soviet Union emerged victorious as one of the world's two superpowers, the other being the United States.\n\nThe Soviet Union and its Eastern European satellite states engaged in the Cold War, a prolonged global ideological and political struggle against the United States and its Western Bloc allies, which it ultimately lost in the face of economic troubles and both domestic and foreign political unrest. In the late 1980s, the last Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev tried to reform the state with his policies of perestroika and glasnost, but the Soviet Union collapsed and was formally dissolved in December 1991 after the abortive August coup attempt. The Russian Federation assumed its rights and obligations.\n\nThe Italian colonial empire was created after the Kingdom of Italy joined other European powers in establishing colonies overseas during the \"scramble for Africa\". Modern Italy as a unified state only existed from 1861. By this time France, Spain, Portugal, Britain, and the Netherlands, had already carved out large empires over several hundred years. One of the last remaining areas open to colonisation was on the African continent.\n\nBy the outbreak of World War I in 1914, Italy had annexed Eritrea and Somalia, and had wrested control of portions of the Ottoman Empire, including Libya, though it was defeated in its attempt to conquer Ethiopia. The Fascist regime under Italian dictator Benito Mussolini which came to power in 1922 sought to increase the size of the empire further. Ethiopia was successfully taken, four decades after the previous failure, and Italy's European borders were expanded. An official \"Italian Empire\" was proclaimed on 9 May 1936 following the conquest of Ethiopia.\n\nItaly sided with Nazi Germany during World War II and initially enjoyed successes. However, Allied forces eventually captured Italian overseas colonies and by the time Italy itself was invaded in 1943, its empire had all but ceased to exist. On 8 September 1943 the Fascist regime of Mussolini collapsed, and a Civil War broke out in Italy between Italian Social Republic and Italian Resistance Movement, supported by Allied forces.\n\n\nThe Empire of Japan, officially the Empire of Great Japan or simply Great Japan (Dai Nippon), was an empire that existed from the Meiji Restoration on 3 January 1868 to the enactment of the post-World War II Constitution of Japan on 3 May 1947.\n\nImperial Japan's rapid industrialization and militarization under the slogan Fukoku Kyōhei (富国強兵, \"Enrich the Country, Strengthen the Army\") led to its emergence as a great power, eventually culminating in its membership in the Axis alliance and the conquest of a large part of the Asia-Pacific region. At the height of its power in 1942, the Japanese Empire ruled over a land area spanning 7,400,000 square kilometres (2,857,000 sq mi), making it one of the largest maritime empires in history.\n\nAfter winning wars against China (First Sino-Japanese War, 1894–95) and Russia (Russo-Japanese War, 1904–05) the Japanese Empire was considered to be one of the major powers worldwide. The maximum extent of the empire was gained during Second World War, when Japan conquered many Asian and Pacific countries (see Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere).\n\nAfter suffering many defeats and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, however, the Empire of Japan surrendered to the Allies on 2 September 1945. A period of occupation by the Allies followed the surrender, and a new constitution was created with American involvement. The constitution came into force on 3 May 1947, officially dissolving the Empire. American occupation and reconstruction of the country continued well into the 1950s, eventually forming the current nation-state whose title is simply that (\"the nation of Japan\" Nippon-koku) or just \"Japan\".\n\n\nFounded in 1776 by thirteen coastal colonies that declared their independence from Great Britain, the United States began its westward expansion following the end of the American Revolutionary War and the recognition of U.S. sovereignty in the 1783 Treaty of Paris. The treaty bequeathed to the nascent republic all land between the Appalachian Mountains and the Mississippi River, and Americans began migrating there in large numbers at the end of the 18th Century, resulting in the displacement of Native American cultures, often through native peoples' forcible deportation and violent wars of eviction. These efforts at expansion were greatly strengthened by the 1787 Constitutional Convention, which resulted in the ratification of the United States Constitution and transformed the U.S. from a loose confederation of semi-autonomous states into a federal entity with a strong national core. In 1803, the United States acquired Louisiana from France, doubling the country's size and extending its borders to the Rocky Mountains.\n\nAmerican population and power grew rapidly, so that by 1823 President James Monroe felt confident enough to issue his Monroe Doctrine, which proclaimed the Americas as the express sphere of the United States and, working in agreement with Great Britain, threatened military action against any European power that attempted to make advances in the area. This was the beginning of the U.S.'s emergence as a regional power in North America. That process was confirmed in the Mexican–American War of 1846–1848, in which the United States, following a skirmish between Mexican and U.S. forces in land disputed between Mexico and the U.S., invaded Mexico. The war, which included the deployment of U.S. forces into Mexico, the taking of Veracruz by sea, and the occupation of Mexico City by American troops (which finally resulted in Mexico's defeat), stunned much of the world. In the peace treaty (Treaty of Guadelupe Hidalgo) that followed, the U.S. annexed the northern half of Mexico, comprising what is now the Southwestern United States. During the course of the war, the United States also negotiated by treaty the acquisition of the Oregon Territory's southern half from Great Britain. Lincoln made the United States a great power because of Europe not intervening in the civil war and the emancipation proclamation and kicking out france from Mexico by his tragic assination sending man power and aid to Mexico.\n\nIn 1867, William H. Seward, the U.S. Secretary of State, negotiated the purchase of Alaska from the Russian Empire. The United States defeated Spain in the Spanish–American War in 1898, and gained the possessions of Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines. The territory of Hawaii was annexed in 1898. By the early 20th century, the United States would come to be considered a great power, marked by its participation in the Boxer Rebellion outside of the Americas region, as well as for Woodrow Wilson's participation in the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, the first international trip by a U.S. President outside of the Americas.\n\nThe United States later participated in World War II, becoming a global power after it helped to secure victory for the allies in 1945; its vast economic and military resources including a short-lived period of monopoly on nuclear weapons made the U.S. one of the world's three remaining superpowers along with the USSR and the British Empire. After the deconstruction of the British Empire in the latter half of the 20th century (a process termed decolonization), the United States vied against the Soviet Union as one of the two remaining superpowers in the world in the Cold War. Upon the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, it became the sole superpower in the world, sometimes referred to as a hyperpower.\n\nIn a 2018 national defense strategy document, the United States government described Russia and China as great powers. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis called China and Russia “revisionist powers” that “seek to create a world consistent with their authoritarian models.”\n\nA timeline of the main great powers since the early 19th century:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21736", "title": "Nazi Party", "text": "Nazi Party\n\nThe National Socialist German Workers' Party (, abbreviated NSDAP), commonly referred to in English as the Nazi Party (), was a far-right political party in Germany that was active between 1920 and 1945, that created and supported the ideology of Nazism. Its precursor, the German Workers' Party (\"Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\"; DAP), existed from 1919 to 1920.\nThe Nazi Party emerged from the German nationalist, racist and populist \"Freikorps\" paramilitary culture, which fought against the communist uprisings in post-World War I Germany. The party was created as a means to draw workers away from communism and into \"völkisch\" nationalism. Initially, Nazi political strategy focused on anti-big business, anti-bourgeois and anti-capitalist rhetoric, although such aspects were later downplayed in order to gain the support of industrial entities and in the 1930s the party's focus shifted to anti-Semitic and anti-Marxist themes.\n\nPseudo-scientific racism theories were central to Nazism. The Nazis propagated the idea of a \"people's community\" (\"Volksgemeinschaft\"). Their aim was to unite \"racially desirable\" Germans as national comrades, while excluding those deemed either to be political dissidents, physically or intellectually inferior, or of a foreign race (\"Fremdvölkische\"). The Nazis sought to improve the stock of the Germanic people through racial purity and eugenics, broad social welfare programs and a collective subordination of individual rights, which could be sacrificed for the good of the state and the \"Aryan master race\". To maintain the supposed purity and strength of the Aryan race, the Nazis sought to exterminate Jews, Romani and Poles along with the vast majority of other Slavs and the physically and mentally handicapped. They imposed exclusionary segregation on homosexuals, Africans, Jehovah's Witnesses and political opponents. The persecution reached its climax when the party-controlled German state organized the systematic genocidal killing of an estimated 5.5 to 6 million Jews and millions of other targeted victims, in what has become known as the Holocaust.\n\nThe party's leader since 1921, Adolf Hitler, was appointed Chancellor of Germany by President Paul von Hindenburg on 30 January 1933. Hitler rapidly established a totalitarian regime known as the Third Reich. Following the defeat of the Third Reich at the conclusion of World War II in Europe, the party was \"declared to be illegal\" by the Allied powers, who carried out denazification in the years after the war.\n\nThe term \"Nazi\" derives from the name given in German to a party member \"\" () and was coined in response to the German term \"Sozi\" (pronounced ), an abbreviation of \"Sozialdemokrat\" (member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany). Members of the party referred to themselves as \"Nationalsozialisten\" (National Socialists), rarely as Nazis. The term \"Parteigenosse\" (party member) was commonly used among Nazis, with the feminine form \"Parteigenossin\" used when it was appropriate.\n\nThe term was in use before the rise of the party as a colloquial and derogatory word for a backward peasant, characterising an awkward and clumsy person. It derived from Ignaz, being a shortened version of Ignatius, a common name in Bavaria, the area from which the Nazis emerged. Opponents seized on this and shortened the party's name in intentional association to the long-time existing \"Sozi\" to the dismissive \"Nazi\".\n\nIn 1933, when Adolf Hitler assumed power of the German government, usage of the designation \"Nazi\" diminished in Germany, although Austrian anti-Nazis continued to use the term derogatorily. The use of \"Nazi Germany\" and \"Nazi regime\" was popularised by anti-Nazis and German exiles abroad. Thereafter, the term spread into other languages and eventually was brought back to Germany after World War II. In English, the term is not considered a slang word, and has such derivatives as Nazism and denazification.\n\nThe party grew out of smaller political groups with a nationalist orientation that formed in the last years of World War I. In 1918, a league called the \"Freier Arbeiterausschuss für einen guten Frieden\" (Free Workers' Committee for a good Peace) was created in Bremen, Germany. On 7 March 1918, Anton Drexler, an avid German nationalist, formed a branch of this league in Munich. Drexler was a local locksmith who had been a member of the militarist Fatherland Party during World War I and was bitterly opposed to the armistice of November 1918 and the revolutionary upheavals that followed. Drexler followed the views of militant nationalists of the day, such as opposing the Treaty of Versailles, having antisemitic, anti-monarchist and anti-Marxist views, as well as believing in the superiority of Germans whom they claimed to be part of the Aryan \"master race\" (\"Herrenvolk\"). However, he also accused international capitalism of being a Jewish-dominated movement and denounced capitalists for war profiteering in World War I. Drexler saw the political violence and instability in Germany as the result of the Weimar Republic being out-of-touch with the masses, especially the lower classes. Drexler emphasized the need for a synthesis of \"völkisch\" nationalism with a form of economic socialism, in order to create a popular nationalist-oriented workers' movement that could challenge the rise of Communism and internationalist politics. These were all well-known themes popular with various Weimar paramilitary groups such as the \"Freikorps\".\nDrexler's movement received attention and support from some influential figures. Supporter Dietrich Eckart, a well-to-do journalist, brought military figure Felix Graf von Bothmer, a prominent supporter of the concept of \"national socialism\", to address the movement. Later in 1918, Karl Harrer (a journalist and member of the Thule Society) convinced Drexler and several others to form the \"Politischer Arbeiterzirkel\" (Political Workers' Circle). The members met periodically for discussions with themes of nationalism and racism directed against the Jews. In December 1918, Drexler decided that a new political party should be formed, based on the political principles that he endorsed, by combining his branch of the Workers' Committee for a good Peace with the Political Workers' Circle.\n\nOn 5 January 1919, Drexler created a new political party and proposed it should be named the \"German Socialist Workers' Party\", but Harrer objected to the term \"socialist\"; so the term was removed and the party was named the German Workers' Party (\"Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\", DAP). To ease concerns among potential middle-class supporters, Drexler made clear that unlike Marxists the party supported the middle-class and that its socialist policy was meant to give social welfare to German citizens deemed part of the Aryan race. They became one of many \"völkisch\" movements that existed in Germany. Like other \"völkisch\" groups, the DAP advocated the belief that through profit-sharing instead of socialisation Germany should become a unified \"people's community\" (\"Volksgemeinschaft\") rather than a society divided along class and party lines. This ideology was explicitly antisemitic. As early as 1920, the party was raising money by selling a tobacco called \"Anti-Semit\".\nFrom the outset, the DAP was opposed to non-nationalist political movements, especially on the left, including the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) and the Communist Party of Germany (KPD). Members of the DAP saw themselves as fighting against \"Bolshevism\" and anyone considered a part of or aiding so-called \"international Jewry\". The DAP was also deeply opposed to the Versailles Treaty. The DAP did not attempt to make itself public and meetings were kept in relative secrecy, with public speakers discussing what they thought of Germany's present state of affairs, or writing to like-minded societies in Northern Germany.\n\nThe DAP was a comparatively small group with fewer than 60 members. Nevertheless, it attracted the attention of the German authorities, who were suspicious of any organisation that appeared to have subversive tendencies. In July 1919, while stationed in Munich army \"Gefreiter\" Adolf Hitler was appointed a \"Verbindungsmann\" (intelligence agent) of an \"Aufklärungskommando\" (reconnaissance unit) of the \"Reichswehr\" (army) by Captain Mayr the head of the \"Education and Propaganda Department\" (Dept Ib/P) in Bavaria. Hitler was assigned to influence other soldiers and to infiltrate the DAP. While attending a party meeting on 12 September 1919, Hitler became involved in a heated argument with a visitor, Professor Baumann, who questioned the soundness of Gottfried Feder's arguments against capitalism; Baumann proposed that Bavaria should break away from Prussia and found a new South German nation with Austria. In vehemently attacking the man's arguments, Hitler made an impression on the other party members with his oratorical skills; according to Hitler, the \"professor\" left the hall acknowledging unequivocal defeat. Drexler encouraged him to join the DAP. On the orders of his army superiors, Hitler applied to join the party and within a week was accepted as party member 555 (the party began counting membership at 500 to give the impression they were a much larger party). Among the party's earlier members were Ernst Röhm of the Army's District Command VII; Dietrich Eckart, who has been called the spiritual father of National Socialism; then-University of Munich student Rudolf Hess; \"Freikorps\" soldier Hans Frank; and Alfred Rosenberg, often credited as the philosopher of the movement. All were later prominent in the Nazi regime.\nHitler later claimed to be the seventh party member (he was in fact the seventh executive member of the party's central committee and he would later wear the Golden Party Badge number one). Anton Drexler drafted a letter to Hitler in 1940—which was never sent—that contradicts Hitler's later claim:\nHitler's first DAP speech was held in the Hofbräukeller on 16 October 1919. He was the second speaker of the evening, and spoke to 111 people. Hitler later declared that this was when he realised he could really \"make a good speech\". At first, Hitler spoke only to relatively small groups, but his considerable oratory and propaganda skills were appreciated by the party leadership. With the support of Anton Drexler, Hitler became chief of propaganda for the party in early 1920. Hitler began to make the party more public, and organised its biggest meeting yet of 2,000 people on 24 February 1920 in the \"Staatliches Hofbräuhaus in München\". Such was the significance of this particular move in publicity that Karl Harrer resigned from the party in disagreement. It was in this speech that Hitler enunciated the twenty-five points of the German Workers' Party manifesto that had been drawn up by Drexler, Feder and himself. Through these points he gave the organisation a much bolder stratagem with a clear foreign policy (abrogation of the Treaty of Versailles, a Greater Germany, Eastern expansion and exclusion of Jews from citizenship) and among his specific points were: confiscation of war profits, abolition of unearned incomes, the State to share profits of land and land for national needs to be taken away without compensation. In general, the manifesto was antisemitic, anti-capitalist, anti-democratic, anti-Marxist and anti-liberal. To increase its appeal to larger segments of the population, on the same day as Hitler's \"Hofbräuhaus\" speech on 24 February 1920, the DAP changed its name to the \"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\" (\"National Socialist German Workers' Party\", or Nazi Party). The word \"Socialist\" was added by the party's executive committee, over Hitler's objections, in order to help appeal to left-wing workers.\n\nIn 1920, the Nazi Party officially announced that only persons of \"pure Aryan descent [\"\"]\" could become party members and if the person had a spouse, the spouse also had to be a \"racially pure\" Aryan. Party members could not be related either directly or indirectly to a so-called \"non-Aryan\". Even before it had become legally forbidden by the Nuremberg Laws in 1935, the Nazis banned sexual relations and marriages between party members and Jews. Party members found guilty of \"Rassenschande\" (\"racial defilement\") were persecuted heavily, some members were even sentenced to death.\n\nHitler quickly became the party's most active orator, appearing in public as a speaker 31 times within the first year after his self-discovery. Crowds began to flock to hear his speeches. Hitler always spoke about the same subjects: the Treaty of Versailles and the Jewish question. This deliberate technique and effective publicising of the party contributed significantly to his early success, about which a contemporary poster wrote: \"Since Herr Hitler is a brilliant speaker, we can hold out the prospect of an extremely exciting evening\". Over the following months, the party continued to attract new members, while remaining too small to have any real significance in German politics. By the end of the year, party membership was recorded at 2,000, many of whom Hitler and Röhm had brought into the party personally, or for whom Hitler's oratory had been their reason for joining.\n\nHitler's talent as an orator and his ability to draw new members, combined with his characteristic ruthlessness, soon made him the dominant figure. However, while Hitler and Eckart were on a fundraising trip to Berlin in June 1921, a mutiny broke out within the party in Munich. Members of its executive committee wanted to merge with the rival German Socialist Party (DSP). Upon returning to Munich on 11 July, Hitler angrily tendered his resignation. The committee members realised that his resignation would mean the end of the party. Hitler announced he would rejoin on condition that he would replace Drexler as party chairman, and that the party headquarters would remain in Munich. The committee agreed, and he rejoined the party on 26 July as member 3,680. Hitler continued to face some opposition within the NSDAP, as his opponents had Hermann Esser expelled from the party and they printed 3,000 copies of a pamphlet attacking Hitler as a traitor to the party. In the following days, Hitler spoke to several packed houses and defended himself and Esser to thunderous applause.\n\nHis strategy proved successful; at a special party congress on 29 July 1921, he replaced Drexler as party chairman by a vote of 533to1. The committee was dissolved, and Hitler was granted nearly absolute powers as the party's sole leader. He would hold the post for the remainder of his life. Hitler soon acquired the title \"Führer\" (\"leader\") and after a series of sharp internal conflicts it was accepted that the party would be governed by the \"Führerprinzip\" (\"leader principle\"). Under this principle, the party was a highly centralized entity that functioned strictly from the top down, with Hitler at the apex as the party's absolute leader. Hitler saw the party as a revolutionary organization, whose aim was the overthrow of the Weimar Republic, which he saw as controlled by the socialists, Jews and the \"November criminals\" who had betrayed the German soldiers in 1918. The SA (\"storm troopers\", also known as \"Brownshirts\") were founded as a party militia in 1921 and began violent attacks on other parties.\nFor Hitler, the twin goals of the party were always German nationalist expansionism and antisemitism. These two goals were fused in his mind by his belief that Germany's external enemies – Britain, France and the Soviet Union – were controlled by the Jews and that Germany's future wars of national expansion would necessarily entail a war against the Jews. For Hitler and his principal lieutenants, national and racial issues were always dominant. This was symbolised by the adoption as the party emblem of the swastika or \"Hakenkreuz\". In German nationalist circles, the swastika was considered a symbol of an \"Aryan race\" and it symbolized the replacement of the Christian Cross with allegiance to a National Socialist State.\n\nThe Nazi Party grew significantly during 1921 and 1922, partly through Hitler's oratorical skills, partly through the SA's appeal to unemployed young men, and partly because there was a backlash against socialist and liberal politics in Bavaria as Germany's economic problems deepened and the weakness of the Weimar regime became apparent. The party recruited former World War I soldiers, to whom Hitler as a decorated frontline veteran could particularly appeal, as well as small businessmen and disaffected former members of rival parties. Nazi rallies were often held in beer halls, where downtrodden men could get free beer. The Hitler Youth was formed for the children of party members. The party also formed groups in other parts of Germany. Julius Streicher in Nuremberg was an early recruit and became editor of the racist magazine \"Der Stürmer\". In December 1920, the Nazi Party had acquired a newspaper, the \"Völkischer Beobachter\", of which its leading ideologist Alfred Rosenberg became editor. Others to join the party around this time were Heinrich Himmler and World War I flying ace Hermann Göring.\n\nOn 31 October 1922, a party with similar policies and objectives came into power in Italy, the National Fascist Party, under the leadership of the charismatic Benito Mussolini. The Fascists, like the Nazis, promoted a national rebirth of their country, as they opposed communism and liberalism; appealed to the working-class; opposed the Treaty of Versailles; and advocated the territorial expansion of their country. The Italian Fascists used a straight-armed Roman salute and wore black-shirted uniforms. Hitler was inspired by Mussolini and the Fascists, borrowing their use of the straight-armed salute as a Nazi salute. When the Fascists came to power in 1922 in Italy through their coup attempt called the \"March on Rome\", Hitler began planning his own coup.\n\nIn January 1923, France occupied the Ruhr industrial region as a result of Germany's failure to meet its reparations payments. This led to economic chaos, the resignation of Wilhelm Cuno's government and an attempt by the German Communist Party (KPD) to stage a revolution. The reaction to these events was an upsurge of nationalist sentiment. Nazi Party membership grew sharply to about 20,000. By November, Hitler had decided that the time was right for an attempt to seize power in Munich, in the hope that the \"Reichswehr\" (the post-war German military) would mutiny against the Berlin government and join his revolt. In this, he was influenced by former General Erich Ludendorff, who had become a supporter—though not a member—of the Nazis.\n\nOn the night of 8 November, the Nazis used a patriotic rally in a Munich beer hall to launch an attempted \"putsch\" (\"coup d'état\"). This so-called Beer Hall Putsch attempt failed almost at once when the local \"Reichswehr\" commanders refused to support it. On the morning of 9 November, the Nazis staged a march of about 2,000 supporters through Munich in an attempt to rally support. Troops opened fire and 16 Nazis were killed. Hitler, Ludendorff and a number of others were arrested and were tried for treason in March 1924. Hitler and his associates were given very lenient prison sentences. While Hitler was in prison, he wrote his semi-autobiographical political manifesto \"Mein Kampf\" (\"My Struggle\").\n\nThe Nazi Party was banned on 9 November 1923; however, with the support of the nationalist Völkisch-Social Bloc (\"Völkisch-Sozialer Block\"), it continued to operate under the name \"German Party\" (\"Deutsche Partei\" or DP) from 1924 to 1925. The Nazis failed to remain unified in the DP, as in the north, the right-wing Volkish nationalist supporters of the Nazis moved to the new German Völkisch Freedom Party, leaving the north's left-wing Nazi members, such as Joseph Goebbels retaining support for the party.\n\nAdolf Hitler was released from prison on 20 December 1924. On 16 February 1925, Hitler convinced the Bavarian authorities to lift the ban on the NSDAP and the party was formally refounded on 26 February 1925, with Hitler as its undisputed leader. The new Nazi Party was no longer a paramilitary organization and disavowed any intention of taking power by force. In any case, the economic and political situation had stabilized and the extremist upsurge of 1923 had faded, so there was no prospect of further revolutionary adventures. The Nazi Party of 1925 was divided into the \"Leadership Corps\" (\"Korps der politischen Leiter\") appointed by Hitler and the general membership (\"Parteimitglieder\"). The party and the SA were kept separate and the legal aspect of the party's work was emphasized. In a sign of this, the party began to admit women. The SA and the SS members (the latter founded in 1925 as Hitler's bodyguard, and known originally as the \"Schutzkommando\") had to all be regular party members.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Nazi Party expanded beyond its Bavarian base. Catholic Bavaria maintained its right-wing nostalgia for a Catholic monarch; and Westphalia, along with working-class \"Red Berlin\", were always the Nazis' weakest areas electorally, even during the Third Reich itself. The areas of strongest Nazi support were in rural Protestant areas such as Schleswig-Holstein, Mecklenburg, Pomerania and East Prussia. Depressed working-class areas such as Thuringia also produced a strong Nazi vote, while the workers of the Ruhr and Hamburg largely remained loyal to the Social Democrats, the Communist Party of Germany or the Catholic Centre Party. Nuremberg remained a Nazi Party stronghold, and the first Nuremberg Rally was held there in 1927. These rallies soon became massive displays of Nazi paramilitary power and attracted many recruits. The Nazis' strongest appeal was to the lower middle-classes – farmers, public servants, teachers and small businessmen – who had suffered most from the inflation of the 1920s, so who feared Bolshevism more than anything else. The small business class was receptive to Hitler's antisemitism, since it blamed Jewish big business for its economic problems. University students, disappointed at being too young to have served in the War of 1914–1918 and attracted by the Nazis' radical rhetoric, also became a strong Nazi constituency. By 1929, the party had 130,000 members.\n\nThe party's nominal Deputy Leader was Rudolf Hess, but he had no real power in the party. By the early 1930s, the senior leaders of the party after Hitler were Heinrich Himmler, Joseph Goebbels and Hermann Göring. Beneath the Leadership Corps were the party's regional leaders, the \"Gauleiters\", each of whom commanded the party in his \"Gau\" (\"region\"). Goebbels began his ascent through the party hierarchy as \"Gauleiter\" of Berlin-Brandenburg in 1926. Streicher was \"Gauleiter\" of Franconia, where he published his antisemitic newspaper \"Der Stürmer\". Beneath the \"Gauleiter\" were lower-level officials, the \"Kreisleiter\" (\"county leaders\"), \"Zellenleiter\" (\"cell leaders\") and \"Blockleiter\" (\"block leaders\"). This was a strictly hierarchical structure in which orders flowed from the top and unquestioning loyalty was given to superiors. Only the SA retained some autonomy. Being composed largely of unemployed workers, many SA men took the Nazis' socialist rhetoric seriously. At this time, the Hitler salute (borrowed from the Italian fascists) and the greeting \"Heil Hitler!\" were adopted throughout the party.\nThe Nazis contested elections to the national parliament (the \"Reichstag\") and to the state legislature (the \"Landtage\") from 1924, although at first with little success. The \"National-Socialist Freedom Movement\" polled 3% of the vote in the December 1924 \"Reichstag\" elections and this fell to 2.6% in 1928. State elections produced similar results. Despite these poor results and despite Germany's relative political stability and prosperity during the later 1920s, the Nazi Party continued to grow. This was partly because Hitler, who had no administrative ability, left the party organization to the head of the secretariat, Philipp Bouhler, the party treasurer Franz Xaver Schwarz and business manager Max Amann. The party had a capable propaganda head in Gregor Strasser, who was promoted to national organizational leader in January 1928. These men gave the party efficient recruitment and organizational structures. The party also owed its growth to the gradual fading away of competitor nationalist groups, such as the German National People's Party (DNVP). As Hitler became the recognized head of the German nationalists, other groups declined or were absorbed.\n\nDespite these strengths, the Nazi Party might never have come to power had it not been for the Great Depression and its effects on Germany. By 1930, the German economy was beset with mass unemployment and widespread business failures. The Social Democrats and Communists were bitterly divided and unable to formulate an effective solution: this gave the Nazis their opportunity and Hitler's message, blaming the crisis on the Jewish financiers and the Bolsheviks, resonated with wide sections of the electorate. At the September 1930 \"Reichstag\" elections, the Nazis won 18.3% of the votes and became the second-largest party in the \"Reichstag\" after the Social Democrats. Hitler proved to be a highly effective campaigner, pioneering the use of radio and aircraft for this purpose. His dismissal of Strasser and his appointment of Goebbels as the party's propaganda chief were major factors. While Strasser had used his position to promote his own leftish version of national socialism, Goebbels was totally loyal to Hitler and worked only to improve Hitler's image.\n\nThe 1930 elections changed the German political landscape by weakening the traditional nationalist parties, the DNVP and the DVP, leaving the Nazis as the chief alternative to the discredited Social Democrats and the Zentrum, whose leader, Heinrich Brüning, headed a weak minority government. The inability of the democratic parties to form a united front, the self-imposed isolation of the Communists and the continued decline of the economy, all played into Hitler's hands. He now came to be seen as \"de facto\" leader of the opposition and donations poured into the Nazi Party's coffers. Some major business figures, such as Fritz Thyssen, were Nazi supporters and gave generously and some Wall Street figures were allegedly involved, but many other businessmen were suspicious of the extreme nationalist tendencies of the Nazis and preferred to support the traditional conservative parties instead.\nDuring 1931 and into 1932, Germany's political crisis deepened. Hitler ran for President against the incumbent Paul von Hindenburg in March 1932, polling 30.1% in the first round and 36.8% in the second against Hindenburg's 49% and 53%. By now the SA had 400,000 members and its running street battles with the SPD and Communist paramilitaries (who also fought each other) reduced some German cities to combat zones. Paradoxically, although the Nazis were among the main instigators of this disorder, part of Hitler's appeal to a frightened and demoralised middle class was his promise to restore law and order. Overt antisemitism was played down in official Nazi rhetoric, but was never far from the surface. Germans voted for Hitler primarily because of his promises to revive the economy (by unspecified means), to restore German greatness and overturn the Treaty of Versailles and to save Germany from communism. On 24 April 1932, the Free State of Prussia elections to the Landtag resulted in 36.3% of the votes and 162 seats for the NSDAP.\n\nOn 20 July 1932, the Prussian government was ousted by a coup, the \"Preussenschlag\"; a few days later at the July 1932 \"Reichstag\" election the Nazis made another leap forward, polling 37.4% and becoming the largest party in parliament by a wide margin. Furthermore, the Nazis and the Communists between them won 52% of the vote and a majority of seats. Since both parties opposed the established political system and neither would join or support any ministry, this made the formation of a majority government impossible. The result was weak ministries governing by decree. Under Comintern directives, the Communists maintained their policy of treating the Social Democrats as the main enemy, calling them \"social fascists\", thereby splintering opposition to the Nazis. Later, both the Social Democrats and the Communists accused each other of having facilitated Hitler's rise to power by their unwillingness to compromise.\n\nChancellor Franz von Papen called another \"Reichstag\" election in November, hoping to find a way out of this impasse. The electoral result was the same, with the Nazis and the Communists winning 50% of the vote between them and more than half the seats, rendering this \"Reichstag\" no more workable than its predecessor. However, support for the Nazis had fallen to 33.1%, suggesting that the Nazi surge had passed its peak—possibly because the worst of the Depression had passed, possibly because some middle-class voters had supported Hitler in July as a protest, but had now drawn back from the prospect of actually putting him into power. The Nazis interpreted the result as a warning that they must seize power before their moment passed. Had the other parties united, this could have been prevented, but their shortsightedness made a united front impossible. Papen, his successor Kurt von Schleicher and the nationalist press magnate Alfred Hugenberg spent December and January in political intrigues that eventually persuaded President Hindenburg that it was safe to appoint Hitler as Reich Chancellor, at the head of a cabinet including only a minority of Nazi ministers—which he did on 30 January 1933.\n\nIn \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler directly attacked both left-wing and right-wing politics in Germany. However, a majority of scholars identify Nazism in practice as being a far-right form of politics. When asked in an interview in 1934 whether the Nazis were \"bourgeois right-wing\" as alleged by their opponents, Hitler responded that Nazism was not exclusively for any class and indicated that it favoured neither the left nor the right, but preserved \"pure\" elements from both \"camps\" by stating: \"From the camp of bourgeois tradition, it takes national resolve, and from the materialism of the Marxist dogma, living, creative Socialism\".\n\nThe votes that the Nazis received in the 1932 elections established the Nazi Party as the largest parliamentary faction of the Weimar Republic government. Hitler was appointed as Chancellor of Germany on 30 January 1933.\n\nThe \"Reichstag\" fire on 27 February 1933 gave Hitler a pretext for suppressing his political opponents. The following day he persuaded the Reich's President Paul von Hindenburg to issue the \"Reichstag\" Fire Decree, which suspended most civil liberties. The NSDAP won the parliamentary election on 5 March 1933 with 43.9 percent of votes, but failed to win an absolute majority. After the election, hundreds of thousands of new members joined the party for opportunistic reasons, most of them civil servants and white-collar workers. They were nicknamed the \"casualties of March\" () or \"March violets\" (). To protect the party from too many non-ideological turncoats who were viewed by the so-called \"old fighters\" \"(alte Kämpfer)\" with some mistrust, the party issued a freeze on admissions that remained in force from May 1933 to 1937.\n\nOn 23 March, the parliament passed the Enabling Act of 1933, which gave the cabinet the right to enact laws without the consent of parliament. In effect, this gave Hitler dictatorial powers. Now possessing virtually absolute power, the Nazis established totalitarian control as they abolished labour unions and other political parties and imprisoned their political opponents, first at \"wilde Lager\", improvised camps, then in concentration camps. Nazi Germany had been established, yet the \"Reichswehr\" remained impartial. Nazi power over Germany remained virtual, not absolute.\n\nDuring June and July 1933, all competing parties were either outlawed or dissolved themselves and subsequently the Law against the founding of new parties of 14 July 1933 legally established the Nazi Party's monopoly. On 1 December 1933, the Law to secure the unity of party and state entered into force, which was the base for a progressive intertwining of party structures and state apparatus. By this law, the SA—actually a party division—was given quasi-governmental authority and their leader was co-opted as an \"ex officio\" cabinet member. By virtue of a 30 January 1934 Law concerning the reorganisation of the \"Reich\", the \"Länder\" (states) lost their statehood and were demoted to administrative divisions of the \"Reich\"'s government \"(Gleichschaltung)\". Effectively, they lost most of their power to the \"Gaue\" that were originally just regional divisions of the party, but took over most competencies of the state administration in their respective sectors.\n\nDuring the Röhm Purge of 30 June to 2 July 1934 (also known as the \"Night of the Long Knives\"), Hitler disempowered the SA's leadership—most of whom belonged to the Strasserist (national revolutionary) faction within the NSDAP—and ordered them killed. He accused them of having conspired to stage a \"coup d'état\", but it is believed that this was only a pretence to justify the suppression of any intraparty opposition. The purge was executed by the SS, assisted by the Gestapo and Reichswehr units. Aside from Strasserist Nazis, they also murdered anti-Nazi conservative figures like former chancellor Kurt von Schleicher. After this, the SA continued to exist but lost much of its importance, while the role of the SS grew significantly. Formerly only a sub-organisation of the SA, it was made into a separate organisation of the NSDAP in July 1934.\n\nAfter the death of President Hindenburg on 2 August 1934, Hitler merged the offices of party leader, head of state and chief of government in one, taking the title of \"Führer und Reichskanzler\". The Chancellery of the Führer, officially an organisation of the Nazi Party, took over the functions of the Office of the President (a government agency), blurring the distinction between structures of party and state even further. The SS increasingly exerted police functions, a development which was formally documented by the merger of the offices of \"Reichsführer-SS\" and Chief of the German Police on 17 June 1936, as the position was held by Heinrich Himmler who derived his authority directly from Hitler. The \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD, formally the \"Security Service of the Reichsführer-SS\") that had been created in 1931 as an intraparty intelligence became the \"de facto\" intelligence agency of Nazi Germany. It was put under the Reich Main Security Office (RSHA) in 1939, which then coordinated SD, Gestapo and criminal police, therefore functioning as a hybrid organisation of state and party structures.\n\nOfficially, the Third Reich lasted only 12 years. The first Instrument of Surrender was signed by representatives of Nazi Germany at Reims, France on 7 May 1945. The war in Europe had come to an end. The defeat of Germany in World War II marked the end of the Nazi Germany era. The party was formally abolished on 10 October 1945 by the Allied Control Council and denazification began, along with trials of major war criminals before the International Military Tribunal (IMT) in Nuremberg. Part of the Potsdam Agreement called for the destruction of the Nationalist Socialist Party alongside the requirement for the reconstruction of the German political life. In addition, the Control Council Law no. 2 Providing for the Termination and Liquidation of the Nazi Organization specified the abolition of 52 other Nazi affiliated and supervised organisations and prohibited their activities. The denazification was carried out in Germany and continued until the onset of the Cold War.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1945, the Nazi Party led regime, assisted by collaborationist governments and recruits from occupied countries, was responsible for the deaths of at least eleven million people, including 5.5 to 6 million Jews (representing two-thirds of the Jewish population of Europe), and between 200,000 and 1,500,000 Romani people. The estimated total number includes the killing of nearly two million non-Jewish Poles, over three million Soviet prisoners of war, communists, and other political opponents, homosexuals, the physically and mentally disabled.\n\nThe National Socialist Programme was a formulation of the policies of the party. It contained 25 points and is therefore also known as the \"25-point plan\" or \"25-point programme\". It was the official party programme, with minor changes, from its proclamation as such by Hitler in 1920, when the party was still the German Workers' Party, until its dissolution.\n\nAt the top of the Nazi Party was the party chairman (\"Der Führer\"), who held absolute power and full command over the party. All other party offices were subordinate to his position and had to depend on his instructions. In 1934, Hitler founded a separate body for the chairman, Chancellery of the Führer, with its own sub-units.\n\nBelow the Führer's chancellery was first the \"Staff of the Deputy Führer\", headed by Rudolf Hess from 21 April 1933 to 10 May 1941; and then the \"Party Chancellery\" (\"Parteikanzlei\"), headed by Martin Bormann.\n\nDirectly subjected to the Führer were the \"Reichsleiter\" (\"Reich Leader(s)\"—the singular and plural forms are identical in German), whose number was gradually increased to eighteen. They held power and influence comparable to the Reich Ministers' in Hitler's Cabinet. The eighteen \"Reichsleiter\" formed the \"Reich Leadership of the Nazi Party\" (\"Reichsleitung der NSDAP\"), which was established at the so-called Brown House in Munich. Unlike a \"Gauleiter\", a \"Reichsleiter\" did not have individual geographic areas under their command, but were responsible for specific spheres of interest.\n\nThe Nazi Party had a number of party offices dealing with various political and other matters. These included:\n\nIn addition to the Nazi Party proper, several paramilitary groups existed which \"supported\" Nazi aims. All members of these paramilitary organizations were required to become regular Nazi Party members first and could then enlist in the group of their choice. An exception was the Waffen-SS, considered the military arm of the SS and Nazi Party, which during the Second World War allowed members to enlist without joining the Nazi Party. Foreign volunteers of the Waffen-SS were also not required to be members of the Nazi Party, although many joined local nationalist groups from their own countries with the same aims. Police officers, including members of the Gestapo, frequently held SS rank for administrative reasons (known as \"rank parity\") and were likewise not required to be members of the Nazi Party.\n\nA vast system of Nazi Party paramilitary ranks developed for each of the various paramilitary groups. This was part of the process of \"Gleichschaltung\" with the paramilitary and auxiliary groups swallowing existing associations and federations after the Party was flooded by millions of membership applications. \n\nThe major Nazi Party paramilitary groups were as follows:\n\nThe Hitler Youth was a paramilitary group divided into an adult leadership corps and a general membership open to boys aged fourteen to eighteen. The League of German Girls was the equivalent group for girls.\n\nCertain nominally independent organizations had their own legal representation and own property, but were supported by the Nazi Party. Many of these associated organizations were labour unions of various professions. Some were older organizations that were nazified according to the \"Gleichschaltung\" policy after the 1933 takeover.\n\nThe employees of large businesses with international operations such as Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank, and Commerzbank were mostly party members. All German businesses abroad were also required to have their own Nazi Party \"Ausland-Organization\" liaison men, which enabled the party leadership updated and excellent intelligence on the actions of the global corporate elites. \n\nFor the purpose of centralization in the \"Gleichschaltung\" process a rigidly hierarchal structure was established in the Nazi Party, which it later carried through in the whole of Germany in order to consolidate total power under the person of Hitler (\"Führerstaat\"). It was regionally sub-divided into a number of \"Gaue\" (singular: \"Gau\") headed by a \"Gauleiter\", who received their orders directly from Hitler. The name (originally a term for sub-regions of the Holy Roman Empire headed by a \"Gaugraf\") for these new provincial structures was deliberately chosen because of its mediaeval connotations. The term is approximately equivalent to the English \"shire\".\n\nWhile the Nazis maintained the nominal existence of state and regional governments in Germany itself, this policy was not extended to territories acquired after 1937. Even in German-speaking areas such as Austria, state and regional governments were formally disbanded as opposed to just being dis-empowered. After the \"Anschluss\" a new type of administrative unit was introduced called a \"Reichsgau\". In these territories the Gauleiters also held the position of Reichsstatthalter, thereby formally combining the spheres of both party and state offices. The establishment of this type of district was subsequently carried out for any further territorial annexations of Germany both before and during World War II. Even the former territories of Prussia were never formally re-integrated into what was then Germany's largest state after being re-taken in the 1939 Polish campaign.\n\nThe \"Gaue\" and \"Reichsgaue\" (state or province) were further sub-divided into \"Kreise\" (counties) headed by a \"Kreisleiter\", which were in turn sub-divided into \"Zellen\" (cells) and \"Blocken\" (blocks), headed by a \"Zellenleiter\" and \"Blockleiter\" respectively.\n\nA reorganization of the \"Gaue\" was enacted on 1 October 1928. The given numbers were the official ordering numbers. The statistics are from 1941, for which the \"Gau\" organization of that moment in time forms the basis. Their size and populations are not exact; for instance, according to the official party statistics the \"Gau\" Kurmark/Mark Brandenburg was the largest in the German Reich. By 1941, there were 42 territorial \"Gaue\" for Germany, 7 of them for Austria, the Sudetenland (in Czechoslovakia), Danzig and the Territory of the Saar Basin, along with the unincorporated regions under German control known as the Protectorate of Bohemia-Moravia and the General Government, established after the joint invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in 1939 at the onset of World War II. Getting the leadership of the individual \"Gaue\" to cooperate with one another proved difficult at times since there was constant administrative and financial jockeying for control going on between them.\n\nThe table below uses the organizational structure that existed before its dissolution in 1945. More information on the older \"Gaue\" is in the second table.\n\nLater Gaue:\n\nSimple re-namings of existing \"Gaue\" without territorial changes is marked with the initials RN in the column \"later became\". The numbering is not based on any official former ranking, but merely listed alphabetically.\n\nThe irregular Swiss branch of the Nazi Party also established a number of Party \"Gaue\" in that country, most of them named after their regional capitals. These included \"Gau Basel-Solothurn\", \"Gau Schaffhausen\", \"Gau Luzern\", \"Gau Bern\" and \"Gau Zürich\". The \"Gau Ostschweiz\" (East Switzerland) combined the territories of three cantons: St. Gallen, Thurgau and Appenzell.\n\nThe general membership of the Nazi Party mainly consisted of the urban and rural lower middle classes. 7% belonged to the upper class, another 7% were peasants, 35% were industrial workers and 51% were what can be described as middle class. In early 1933, just before Hitler's appointment to the chancellorship, the party showed an under-representation of \"workers\", who made up 29.7% of the membership but 46.3% of German society. Conversely, white-collar employees (18.6% of members and 12% of Germans), the self-employed (19.8% of members and 9.6% of Germans) and civil servants (15.2% of members and 4.8% of the German population) had joined in proportions greater than their share of the general population. These members were affiliated with local branches of the party, of which there were 1,378 throughout the country in 1928. In 1932, the number had risen to 11,845, reflecting the party's growth in this period.\n\nWhen it came to power in 1933, the Nazi Party had over members. In 1939, the membership total rose to 5.3 million with 81% being male and 19% being female. It continued to attract many more and by 1945 the party reached its peak of 8 million with 63% being male and 37% being female (about 10% of the German population of 80 million).\n\nNazi members with military ambitions were encouraged to join the Waffen-SS, but a great number enlisted in the \"Wehrmacht\" and even more were drafted for service after World War II began. Early regulations required that all \"Wehrmacht\" members be non-political and any Nazi member joining in the 1930s was required to resign from the Nazi Party.\n\nHowever, this regulation was soon waived and there is ample evidence that full Nazi Party members served in the \"Wehrmacht\" in particular after the outbreak of World War II. The \"Wehrmacht\" Reserves also saw a high number of senior Nazis enlisting, with Reinhard Heydrich and Fritz Todt joining the \"Luftwaffe\", as well as Karl Hanke who served in the army.\n\nIn 1926, the party formed a special division to engage the student population, known as the National Socialist German Students' League (NSDStB). A group for university lecturers, the National Socialist German University Lecturers' League (NSDDB), also existed until July 1944.\n\nThe National Socialist Women's League was the women's organization of the party and by 1938 it had approximately 2 million members.\n\nParty members who lived outside Germany were pooled into the \"Auslands-Organisation\" (NSDAP/AO, \"Foreign Organization\"). The organization was limited only to so-called \"Imperial Germans\"; and \"Ethnic Germans\" (\"Volksdeutsche\"), who did not hold German citizenship were not permitted to join.\n\nUnder Beneš decree No. 16/1945 Coll., in case of citizens of Czechoslovakia membership of the Nazi Party was punishable by between five and twenty years of imprisonment.\n\n\"Deutsche Gemeinschaft\" was a branch of the Nazi Party founded in 1919, created for Germans with \"Volksdeutsche\" status. It is not to be confused with the post-war right-wing \"\", which was founded in 1949.\n\nNotable members included:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1124810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1124810", "title": "Nonpartisanism", "text": "Nonpartisanism\n\nNonpartisanism is a lack of affiliation with, and a lack of bias toward, a political party.\n\nWhile an Oxford English Dictionary definition of \"partisan\" includes adherents of a party, cause, person, etc., in most cases, nonpartisan refers specifically to political party connections rather than being the strict antonym of \"partisan\".\n\nToday, nonpartisan elections are generally held for municipal and county offices, especially school board, and are also common in the election of judges. The unicameral Nebraska State Legislature is the only state legislature that is entirely officially nonpartisan.\n\nAlthough elections may be officially nonpartisan, in some elections (usually involving larger cities or counties, as well as the Nebraska Unicameral) the party affiliations of candidates are generally known, most commonly by the groups endorsing a particular candidate (e.g., a candidate endorsed by a labor union would be generally affiliated with the Democratic Party, while a candidate endorsed by a business coalition would be generally affiliated with the Republican Party).\n\nChurches and charities in the United States were mainly formed under US Internal Revenue Service tax code 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. To maintain that tax-exempt status, and the ability for donors to take a tax deduction, they were required to remain nonpartisan.\n\nThis has caused some to question the ability of organizations that have the appearance of partisanship. Some predominantly African-American churches promote Democratic candidates. Some predominantly white Evangelical churches were seen as promoting Republican candidates. Most churches regardless of color were seen to promote ballot measures that defined marriage as being between one man and one woman.\n\nThe Brookings Institution is a Washington, D.C. think tank and 501(c)(3) non-profit, nonpartisan organization. Since its founding in 1916, it has had both identifiable Republicans and Democrats among its leadership. Owing to leadership changes such as this, some argue that it is a good example of a nonpartisan organization. \"The New York Times\" has at times listed the organization as being liberal, liberal-centrist, centrist, and conservative. In 2008, \"The New York Times\" published an article where it referred to the \"conservative Brookings Institution\".\n\nIn U.S. history, the Nonpartisan League was an influential socialist political movement, especially in the Upper Midwest, particularly during the 1910s and 1920s. It also contributed much to the ideology of the former Progressive Party of Canada. It went into decline and merged with the Democratic Party of North Dakota to form the North Dakota Democratic-NPL Party in 1956.\n\nIn the history of Milwaukee, the \"Nonpartisans\" were an unofficial but widely recognized coalition of Republicans and Democrats who cooperated in an effort to keep Milwaukee's Sewer Socialists out of as many offices as possible, including in elections which were officially non-partisan, but in which Socialists and \"Nonpartisans\" were clearly identified in the press. (Such candidates were sometimes called \"fusion\" candidates.) This lasted from the 1910s well into the 1940s. (The similar effort in 1888 to prevent Herman Kroeger's election as a Union Labor candidate had been conducted under the banner of a temporary \"Citizen's Party\" label.) During the period of Socialist-Progressive cooperation (1935-1941), the two sides were called \"Progressives\" and \"Nonpartisans\".\n\nIn India, the Jaago Re! One Billion Votes campaign was a non-partisan campaign initiated by Tata Tea, and Janaagraha to encourage citizens to vote in the Indian general election, 2009. The campaign was a non-partisan campaign initiated by Anal Saha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1061379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061379", "title": "Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality", "text": "Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality\n\nOrthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality (), also known as Official Nationality, was the dominant ideological doctrine of Russian emperor Nicholas I. It was \"the Russian version of a general European ideology of restoration and reaction\" that followed the Napoleonic Wars.\n\n\"The Triad\" of Official Nationality was originally proposed by Minister of Education Sergey Uvarov in his April 2, 1833 circular letter to subordinate educators. It was soon embraced by Nicholas and his establishment and gained wide public recognition, vocally supported by intellectuals like Mikhail Pogodin, Fyodor Tyutchev and Nikolai Gogol.\n\nCritics of the policy saw this principle as a call for Russification. Yet the very fact of its existence, being Russia's first statewide political ideology since the 16th century, indicated the nation's brewing transition to modernity.\n\nNicholas I emerged as the emperor in the wake of Decembrist revolt; subsequent investigation proved that disloyalty was deeply rooted within the noble estate – the sole foundation of the House of Romanov. His father and grandfather were killed by their own guards and statesmen in palace coups. Keen to eradicate the rebels and ensure his own physical security, Nicholas carefully studied proceedings of the Decembrists investigation and was aware of defects in his predecessor's government that fueled the mutiny. \"In one sense, the reign of Nicholas I was a protracted epilogue to the Decembrist rising.\"\n\nNicholas, acting in line with his absolutist predecessors of the Age of Enlightenment, developed a state education system and completed codification of the law. He installed a highly regulated but ultimately inefficient government system of \"anxious centralization\", himself being the chief arbiter between rivalling statesmen. Unfortunately the system created by Nicolas I was unsound and ineffective, since the Emperor did not have any physical possibility to oversee personally all the business and to personally look through all papers to be signed. The Emperor found himself a prisoner of his own system, so he could only rely on his high officials in most of his day-to-day activity. Higher officials relied on officials of lower rank. In most cases government officials, even ministers, did things on their own and paid little attention to general instructions given by the Emperor in one case or another. The autocracy was exploited by government officials (\"chinovniki\") for their own benefit. The autocracy in fact turned out to be a cover to hide the acts made by officials at all levels. Back in those days, it was \"chinovniki\" who had real power, but not the Emperor, who was nothing more but a promulgator of laws. Nevertheless, if a certain law was not lucrative or was disadvantageous for government officials, it was not a problem to make legal obstacles to enforce such law. Sometimes a law was simply abolished without the Emperor knowing about it, as it was usually the case with the Emperor’s acts regulating commercial activity of Saint Petersburg negotiants (\"kuptsy\"). In any case the Emperor always got a report that everything went well and all his instructions had been implemented. But he also attributed the nobles' disloyalty to a Europe-wide conspiracy aimed at destroying ruling monarchies, religion and morale. Russia, according to his point of view, succeeded in Napoleonic Wars while more advanced regimes failed, and saved Europe from plunging into decay and atheism.\n\nSergey Uvarov, Minister of Education and President of the Russian Academy of Sciences since 1818, was also a writer, a scholar and at times was considered a freethinker. Yet, with a change in domestic politics, he easily adjusted to a tightened regime. In 1833 Uvarov forged the emperor's program into a brief statement of ideology:\n\nTsar Nicholas I had remembered the Decembrist revolt for all his life. He always suspected secret societies and uprisings to be plotted around him. Such personal feelings of the Tsar had great influence on the development of Russia. In order to meet the demands of the new state of affairs under Nicholas I, the Minister of Public Education S. Uvarov proposed to give new original shape to the national educational system. He said that Russia needs such educational system which could produce skilled, professional, well prepared executors of the Emperor’s wishes. Such educational system should not only provide knowledge to people, but also made them unconditionally loyal to the Emperor. Briefly speaking, Uvarov tried to deprive education of its most important integral part – analytical and critical approach to environment (specifically to political environment).\n\nAccording to Uvarov’s theory, the Russian folk (\"narod\") is very religious and devoted to the Emperor, the Orthodox religion and autocracy are unconditional bases of the existence of Russia. \"Narodnost\" (nationality) is deemed to be the necessity to follow independent national traditions and to fight foreign influence. The theory stated that it was necessary to reject western ideas – freedom of thinking, freedom of personality, individualism, rationalism which were considered by Orthodox religion as dangerous and rebel thinking. The chief of Russian political police (the III Department of His Majesty's Personal Chancellery) A. Benckendorff wrote that “the past of Russia was wonderful, the present is splendid and the future is above all dreams”. These three concepts were considered as \"pillar-walls\" of the Russian Empire. Uvarov's triad was the first explicit statement of government ideology in Russian history since the 16th century. He repeated the triad and elaborated on the topic throughout the 16 years of his ministry and was eventually awarded the title of a Count. \"Orthodoxy, Autocracy and Nationality\" became the Uvarov family motto, decreed by Nicholas. Yet he also did much as a true educator, raising educational standards, establishing new colleges, increasing the number of scholarships for overseas training. Under Uvarov, the \"Russian educational system, with all its fundamental flaws, came to emphasize academic thoroughness and high standards\", although it also became more exclusive at all levels. It means that only less than 1% of Russian population (only noble ones, many of them of foreign descent) had the possibility to get the education, it was almost impossible for Russian non-nobles to get access to education. Within this meaning, the \"Narodnost\" (nationality) meant that Russian folk had to stay away from education (Western influence) in order to preserve the folk's pure Russian national character.\n\nThe three components of Uvarov's triad were:\n\nThe sequence of three parts of the triad remained fixed in all circumstances even when the words themselves changed: military cadets were instructed to be \"Christians, loyal subjects and Russians\", the common public motto called \"For Faith, Tsar and Fatherland\".\n\nThe triad was inherently unbalanced in favor of centralized autocracy. The Russian Orthodox Church was impoverished and incapable of being an independent political force. The Government remained wary of \"any\" philosophy, including theology. Nationality through empowerment of the people was not a choice from the start and became even less probable after the dreaded nationalist Revolutions of 1848 \"reduced Nicholas to a state of almost catatonic fear\". It also ran against the ever-increasing role of Baltic Germans in the government system; even converted to Orthodoxy, they retained their distinct ethnicity.\n\nThe press, censored by the state, eagerly embraced the new doctrine and was dominated by it until the end of Nicholas's reign. Stepan Shevyryov, editor of \"\" magazine, asserted that \"even if we did pick certain unavoidable blemishes from the West, we have on the other hand preserved in ourselves, in their purity, three fundamental feelings which contain the seed and guarantee of our future development.\"\n\nSlavophiles, in particular, accepted the anti-European, anti-absolutist, paternalistic side of the doctrine. Mikhail Pogodin explained the paternalistic, peaceful nature of autocracy as seen by Slavophiles: \"the secret of Russian history, the secret which not a single Western sage is able to comprehend: Russian history always depicts Russia as a single family in which the ruler is the father and the subjects are children. The father retains full authority over children while he allows them to have full freedom ... there can be no suspicion, no treason; their fate, their happiness, their peace they share in common. This is true in relation to the state as a whole...\"\n\nNikolai Nadezhdin, who initially entertained the westernized, Schellingian notion of \"nationality\", radically changed his mind in favor of Official Nationality in the wake of the Chaadayev affair (1837), writing that \"nationality had always consisted of love of the Tsar and obedience, and which in the future should display in itself, to Europe's dismay, a brilliant lesson of how from the holy unity of autocracy, must arise an exemplary and splendid national enlightenment...\".\n\nNikolai Gogol in his final work \"Selected Passages from Correspondence with his Friends\" (1847) extended Official Nationality to relationships between landlords and serfs: \"Make them [serfs] see clearly that in everything that concerns them you are acting in accordance with the will of God and not in accordance with some European or other fancies on your own.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6088994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6088994", "title": "PeaceMaker", "text": "PeaceMaker\n\nPeaceMaker is a video game developed by ImpactGames, and published in February 2007 for Windows and Mac OS. It is a government simulation game which simulates the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Labelled as a serious game, it is often pitched as \"a video game to promote peace\".\n\nThe game was originally a university project started in 2005 by a small team from the Carnegie Mellon University. After graduating, two of the members founded a game development company in order to finish the project.\n\n\"Peacemaker\" players can choose to represent either the leader of Israel or the Palestinian Authority. They have to deal with events presented using real world pictures and footage. They have to react and make social, political, and military decisions that their position entails within a gameplay system similar to turn-based strategy. The goal of the game is to solve the conflict with the two-state solution.\n\n\"PeaceMaker\" was well received by both the gaming and general press and won several awards. Critics praised its gameplay and the accuracy of the conflict representation. It is seen as an important game for the serious game movement and is becoming a flagship of the genre. Its educational value allows for a better understanding of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and promotes peace.\n\n\"PeaceMaker\" is a government simulation game that incorporates elements of turn-based strategy. The player choose to be either the Prime Minister of Israel or the President of the Palestinian National Authority, and must resolve the conflict peacefully. The game interface includes a map, like \"Civilization\", showing the Gaza Strip, the Galilee, the West Bank and the north of the Negev. After each turn, the events of the week are pointed on the map. By clicking on it, the player views a news report, with real-world pictures and footage, of a demonstration or a bomb attack.\n\nEach week, the player makes a decision regarding security, construction or politics. He may seek the advice of two advisers with differing opposite views. The Palestinian President is helped by a national and a foreign adviser. The Israeli Prime Minister has the views of a hawk, advocating repressive measures, and a dove, willing to help the Palestinians. The player has access to panel of decision, such as making a speech, negotiating with other leaders or staging military operations. Reflecting the asymmetric conflict, the two leaders cannot make the same decisions. The Israeli Prime Minister has major financial and military power, and can for example order missile strikes or a curfew. The Palestinian President is much more helpless, and has to ask the third-party help for most of his actions.\n\nA key-point of the game is that the actions of the players do not always have the expected outcome. For example, an Israeli proposal for medical aid shortly after an air strike will be turned down, and will deteriorate even further the relation with the Palestinians.\nThe player actions provoke immediate reactions, such as public protest or political critics. They also influence several long-term variables, classified into two categories. The first is the approval of the policy of the player by different groups and leaders. The second covers economical, social or political indicators. Their values are displayed on the screen as thermometers.\n\nEach leader must take into account the approval of his counterpart, of both people, of the United Nations, the United States and the Arab world. The Palestinian President also has to deal with the Fatah and Hamas ; and the Israeli Prime Minister with the Yesha Council (representing the settlers) and all the Palestinian militant organisations (such as the Islamic Jihad, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades). The player has access to polls, which represent the different indicators. Each leader is informed of his leadership and the quality of his relations with the other party. On the Palestinian side, the polls cover the authority of the President, the opinion of the man of the street towards Israel, economic health and national independence. On the Israeli side, they reflect the insecurity, the suppression, and the Israeli compassion towards the Palestinians.\n\nThe opinions of the different parties are summarised by two counters displayed on the screen. Ranging from −100 to 100, they measure the approval of two groups. In the role of the Prime Minister of Israel, those two groups are the Israeli and Palestinian people ; in the role of Palestinian President, of its citizens and the international community. The game starts with both counters at zero. Any of them dropping too low cause the game over: either the leader is removed from office, or the new intifada begins. When both counters are up to the maximum, the conflict is solved by the two-state solution.\n\n\"PeaceMaker\" started as a university project in 2005. It was carried out by a small team of students of the Master of Entertainment Technology at the Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, a course mixing fine arts and computing. American Eric Brown and former Israeli officer Asi Burak were the producers of the game. Tim Sweeney was the lead game designer, working with Olive Lin, writer Victoria Webb and composer Ross Popoff. Eric Keylor and Lin were the programmers. The team was supervised by two professors of the university.\n\nTo prototype the game design, the team used board games. They helped to \"model the stakeholders in the conflict\". They were then converted into a dice game which could be coded. The logic engine and the artificial intelligence were developed in Java. The graphical user interface used Adobe Flash and QuickTime. The different graphic elements were made by Patrick Bannan. He used the software 3ds Max, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator, starting with 3D modeling, texture mapping and lighting.\n\nA prototype of the game was presented at the Game Developers Conference in 2005. Given the excellent reception, Brown and Burak decide to complete the project, in order to distribute it to the general public and educators. After graduating, they founded the studio ImpactGames and planned to produce other games of the same kind. Their objective is to \"impact society and promote change through interactive media\". They also want to change the industry, by \"making something that compares to the role documentaries play in the movie industry\". In order to make an unbiased game, they wanted the contribution of Palestinians ; two joined the team.\n\nInitially, the developers did not want to \"define the end-solution\", in order to avoid controversy. Victory was then defined by the lowering of violence. Early players' reactions showed the necessity for \"a more meaningful outcome\". With the input of experts from both sides and the United States, they chose the two-state solution. It was mainly because of the support of the United Nations Security Council resolution, the roadmap for peace and the Arab peace initiative.\n\nThis choice was one of the design assumptions made by the developers. Game designer Tim Sweeney, although he admitted they are debatable, claimed his right to define the scope of the work. He considered that they do not favour any side, but rather peace. The developers assumed that both sides wanted peace and that the player can make a difference, but does not have total control of their side, and that peace could be achieved through small, concrete actions.\n\nThe first stable version of \"PeaceMaker\" was released on 1 February 2005, downloadable from the company website. A box version was published on Amazon.com four months later. The game is playable in English, Hebrew and Arabic, to \"strengthen the multiple point-of-views\". The game was sold for twenty dollars. ImpactGames was criticised for this, from people considering that such a game should be free of charge. This had been a major debate at the beginning of the development. Eric Brown explained that being for-profit allowed to find investors more easily. Moreover, they wanted to make an example of commercially viable game within the industry. On 4 November 2013, Brown updated the ImpactGames blog to announce that \"PeaceMaker\" was now free to download and play, hoping this would \"allow the game to find an even larger audience in schools, community centers, and the general public.\". It can be downloaded from the Softonic site.\n\n\"PeaceMaker\" received positive reviews from both the gaming and general press. In an article published in \"Gamasutra\", Ernest W. Adams stated that the game is \"fun and challenging\", and holds a deep level of subtlety. He compares it to \"Balance of Power\", a simulation of geopolitics during the Cold War, published by Chris Crawford in 1985. Adams claimed that while \"Balance of Power\" can be summarised as a zero-sum game, \"PeaceMaker\" is \"a richer and more difficult challenge\".\n\n\"Eurogamer\"’s Oliver Clare noted a few minor game design flaws, which he attributed to \"Impact Games' inexperience with interface design\". According to him, \"the narrow theme\" limits the replay value and appeal of the game. He stressed that the game shows no bias, and holds an \"amazingly positive educational potential\". Clare claimed he suffered viewing all the tragedies in the game, and that the first time he won the game, tears came to his eyes : \"For a few poignant moments you get an inkling of what peaceful co-existence in the Middle East might actually feel like, what it might mean\". Judy Siegel-Itzkovich from \"The Jerusalem Post\" had a similar opinion, stating that the game is \"immersive\" and that \"learning the background of this endless dispute could be very educational\". Her colleague Calev Ben-David was impressed by the graphics and texts. He also appreciated the winning condition: according to him, setting a time limit would have been unrealistic.\n\nCritics agreed that the game model is relevant. Alexander Gambotto-Burke from \"The Guardian\" described it as \"an astonishingly sophisticated simulation of the Israel/Palestine conflict\". In a column published in July 2009, Steven Poole claimed that the game \"provides a roughly accurate model of the political and security options on both sides of an actual conflict\", and that it was rightly praised. Poole pointed out the game's most educational side is that the intentions of the player do not always lead to the expected outcome. According to him, \"PeaceMaker\" makes the player understand that \"even people who do have power cannot control everything, and they, too, can be at the mercy of events\". \"The Globe and Mail\"’s Marc MacKinnon agreed, stating that \"it gives players a feel for the impossibility of Mahmoud Abbas and Ehud Olmert’s jobs\".\n\nIn July 2007, \"PeaceMaker\" was the most sold second PC game of the week in North America on Amazon.com. The website mentioned a \"suddenly high level of demand\", that Asi Burak attributed to an interview at the National Public Radio the same month. As of February 2008, the game had sold copies worldwide.\n\nThe rise of Internet allows alternative distribution channels, such as downloading freeware or through platforms such as Steam, and later Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network or WiiWare. New mainstream developments tools, like Flash, allow a democratization of game production. These elements have given rise to new dynamics in the industry, such as fangame, independent game and serious game. This last category refers to games tackling serious issues like war, global warming or gerrymandering. In the 2000s, these games receive more coverage by both gaming and general press. They have however a bad reputation because of widely criticised gameplay and game design flaws.\n\n\"PeaceMaker\" has become a flagship of the serious game, and a major step for the acknowledgement of the genre. In 2006, it took the award in a competition organized by the University of Southern California, entitled \"Reinventing public diplomacy through games\". It won the \" Best Transformation Game\" award in 2007. This prize rewards \"the best game which engages players on a deep and meaningful level around an important social issue, whose aims and outcomes are no less than to foster a powerful intellectual or behavioural transformation in it users\". It is awarded by the association Games for Change, whose mission is to promote \"games that engage contemporary social issues in meaningful ways to foster a more just, equitable and tolerant society\". Suzanne Seggerman, co-founder of the association, stated in 2009 that just like \"Darfur is Dying\", \"Food Force\" and \"\", \"PeaceMaker\" was just such a game, \"having had an impact\".\n\"PeaceMaker\" is described by its creators as \"a video game to teach peace\", and is primarily intended for Israeli and Palestinian students. In November 2007, the Peres Center for Peace funded the distribution of copies in Israel and Palestine. copies are sent to the subscribers of the Israeli daily \"Haaretz\", to subscribers to the Palestinian daily \"Al-Quds\". The remaining are distributed in high-schools of both sides. This action is made in conjunction with the Annapolis conference, during which all parties agree on the two-state solution. Shortly after the Centre set up the \"PeaceMaker Educational Program\". It consists in using the game in Israeli and Palestinian schools, and to lead a supervised debate with the students. Over fifty workshops were held in 2008, involving students from two states. This total amounts to students in September 2009.\n\nIn February 2008 ImpactGames launched the program \"Play the News\". It is a web-based platform used to publish mini-games based on the news. The idea is that interactivity allows a better understanding of an event, rather than passive reading. A game is designed to be played for ten to twenty minutes, and to be developed in a day.\n\nThe game is divided into three steps. The player firstly has access to information about the event and its context, using timelines and maps. Then, they can play successively as the different protagonists of the event. They are asked to make a decision, following what they think the stakeholder should do. Finally, the player predicts which decision the protagonist will make. When the player returns later, he is informed of the decisions that were made in the real world. \"Play the News\" is built around a community, where every player has a profile. He may read statistics on the accuracy of his predictions and the tendency of his opinions (mainstream or fringe within the community).\n\nShortly after the launch, Ian Bogost described \"Play the News\" as \"very casual\", and feared that it could be summarised as a simple quiz. He claimed that the game had some potential to engage people with the news, \"by making them think about what will happen next and by creating a natural reason to read stories one otherwise might not\". The game won in May 2009 the first \"Knight News Game Awards\", awarded by the association Games for Change. It rewards \"news game\", games that \"[enhance] people's ability to make decisions in a democracy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "413348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413348", "title": "Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura", "text": "Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura\n\nThe Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura (PKMS, or Singapore Malay National Organisation; Jawi: ڤرتوبوهن كبڠسان ملايو سيڠاڤورا; ) is a political party in Singapore. The party recently concluded their 24th BGM on 25th November 2018. \n\nPresident: Mr Abu Mohamed\nDeputy President: Mr Ismail Yacoob\nVice-President 1: Mr Malik Ismail\nVice-President 2 : Mr Az-Zahari Bin Ahmad Kamil\nSecretary General : Mr Muhammad Hairullah Ahmad\nHead of Youth Wing: Mr Abdul Mutalib Bin Ithnin\nHead of Women Wing: Mdm Ratna\n\nThe origins of Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura (PKMS) were rooted in the Singapore Malay Union (KMS) which was founded in 1926 by Mohamed Eunos bin Abdullah to represent Malay interests. Following the Second World War, the KMS opposed the proposed Malayan Union and merged into the United Malay National Organization (UMNO), which would become dominant in federal politics.\n\nDespite the KMS's connections to UMNO, the modern PKMS organisation originated as an extension of the Johor Bahru branch of UMNO. It contested the 1955 Singapore general election where it secured one seat at Ulu Bedok. By the 1959 Singapore general election, UMNO had gained three seats in the Malay-dominated electorates of Geylang Serai, Kampung Kembangan, and the Southern Islands. On 20 February 1961, it became officially registered as the Singapore United Malay National Organization (SUMNO).\n\nSUMNO subsequently joined the Singapore Alliance Party, which also was an extension of the larger federal Alliance Party and encompassed the Singapore Malay Union along with local branches of the Malayan Chinese Association and the Malayan Indian Congress, and former Chief Minister Lim Yew Hock's Singapore People's Alliance. In line with the pro-Malay communal policies of its parent organisation, PKMS became a vocal opponent of Lee Kuan Yew's People's Action Party which it accused of promoting Chinese chauvinism and discriminating against Malays. However, it also shared some of the PAP's policies like supporting merger with Malaysia and anti-Communism.\n\nUnder the Singapore Alliance umbrella, SUMNO contested the 1963 general election but performed poorly and lost all its three seats. In total, the Alliance lost all its seven seats. The fallout from this electoral defeat contributed to sharply deteriorating relations between the federal government in Kuala Lumpur and the Singapore state government which culminated in racial rioting that resulted in Singapore's expulsion from Malaysia in September 1965.\n\nOn 19 March 1967, the party assumed its current name Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura after the Singapore government passed a new law banning local parties from operating as branches of foreign organisations. However, PKMS continued to maintain ties with its parent organisation UMNO. During the 1968 general election, the PKMS did not file any nominations and supported Barisan Sosialis's electoral boycott of the Singapore Parliament. While the PKMS would contest future elections, it has never won a seat since 1959.\n\nOn 3 July 2001, the PKMS joined a political coalition known as the Singapore Democratic Alliance which included the Singapore Justice Party, Singapore People's Party, the Singapore National Front and the National Solidarity Party. Throughout its history, the party has experienced substantial internal infighting. However, it all ended with a court order on 22 March 2012 giving Mr Abu Mohamed and his Supreme Council the rights to administer the office. Since then, PKMS are making up for lost time, making progress to be the voice of not just Malays in Singapore but the voice of the younger generations (regardless of race) against any form of colonialism (uphold and safeguard the principles of parliamentary and democratic form of government)and foster goodwill and harmony amongst the citizens of various races in Singapore towards the growth of a strong,united nation without marginalising the locals(born and bred Singaporeans).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30973393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30973393", "title": "Puntland Intelligence Agency", "text": "Puntland Intelligence Agency\n\nThe Puntland Intelligence Agency (, ) is an intelligence agency based in Puntland, Somalia. It was officially established in 2001 as Puntland Intelligence Service during the rule of President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, with assistance from the United States. The agency operates throughout Somalia, but principally in the autonomous Puntland region, where it serves as the main intelligence and counter-terrorism wing of the Puntland Security Force.\n\nThe agency took the name Puntland Intelligence Agency in 2010 after undergoing extensive reform to streamline it to work side by side with other government agencies across Somalia. These reforms were instituted by former Puntland President Abdirahman Farole.\n\nThen known as Puntland Intelligence Service, the PIS was founded in 2001 with help from the United States Intelligence Community to act as a buffer against possible Islamist movements. Its responsibilities include surveillance, investigation and arrest of suspected terrorists; monitoring of ports and airports; protection of foreigners.\n\nIt has led the fight against Al-Qaeda in Galgala, Puntland known as the Galgala Campaign. On February 26th 2012, the self-proclaimed leader of the Galgala militants reaffirmed their allegiance with Al-Qaeda. The Puntland Intelligence Agency is trained and supported by US counter-terrorism agencies via their branches in Djibouti and is currently the strongest armed wing of Puntland's security apparatus.\n"}
{"id": "13912249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13912249", "title": "Recording at the edge", "text": "Recording at the edge\n\nRecording at the edge is the recording of video and storing it either in camera or to a directly connected storage device instead of transporting it across the network to a centralized recording facility such as a digital video recorder.\n\nRecording at the edge is a distributed or de-centralized approach to storage—the video is spread across a number of edge-storage devices as opposed to centralized on one.\n\nRecording at the edge is a network bandwidth-friendly approach because it does not use any network bandwidth in order to record video—instead the network is only used to play back audio or video from the edge at some review station. When the network includes a WAN or, worse still, the Internet, by definition Recording at the Edge becomes the only way to ensure high quality recordings.\n\nRecording at the edge is more reliable because recording is independent of the network's health and degree of congestion. Even if the network grinds to a halt recording continues unaffected. However, you have to be very cautious while only recording at the edge. SD cards in these cameras are continuously filled with data, written over, and over-worked -They burn out very quickly, compared to a normal Hard Drive.\n\nRecording at the Edge can be achieved by deploying PC-based DVRs at the edge, however with vulnerable operating systems these are more challenging to maintain than a simple purpose built embedded appliance. Embedded DVRs are better suited to this role, although conventional DVRs traditionally focus on recording, searching and playback than scalable live streaming over the network, which is a primary function of an IP-based CCTV architecture.\n\nOne of the concerns about IP-based CCTV is the dependence on the network. In a network outage in a centralized storage model both live video and the ability to record is lost. With Recording at the edge this is less of an issue because network outage only impacts live video.\n\nIn a centralized approach, if the central recording station fails, all cameras cease to be recorded. With recording at the edge, if one edge recorder fails then only those cameras connected to that unit stop recording.\n\nFor added security centralized storage is frequently used to record alarm video for easy alarm verification and long-term secure storage. Pre-alarm recording is offered by introducing a buffer in the encoder so that the seconds or minutes of video before and after an alarm can be automatically transmitted to the centralized storage. Because of the huge edge storage capacities of some encoders, ranging from 256 MB to 800 GB, you can continuously record video at high frame rates and high resolutions, and still take advantage of pre-alarm recording. For instance, if you continuously transmit a 1 Mbit/s stream (30 IPS at 4 CIF) to a central recorder in the anticipation that an alarm event will occur, you will consume 1 Mbit/s of network bandwidth, or send about 11 Gigabytes of video data. If, however, you use recording at the edge, and use pre-alarm recording configured to 5 seconds pre- and 10 seconds post-alarm, then assuming 20 alarms per day you will transmit a much lower total of around 40 Megabytes of video. The same 11 GB will still be recorded locally but only 40 MB, or 0.4% of it, will touch the network.\n\nIn those instances where the pre-alarm video is not long enough, it is comforting to know that the original complete video is always available, recorded at the edge.\n\nIn situations where the network bandwidth is severely limited, recording at the edge is a savior for high quality recorded video but it does not solve the challenge of needing to view live video over a restricted network. Some encoders support dual streaming. This is a concept that enables the encoder to deliver two totally independent streams of video, separately configured for different frame rates and video resolutions. Typically for limited bandwidth networks one high quality stream is used for local recording, and a lower quality, which translates to a lower bit rate, is used for viewing live. Conversely for high bandwidth networks, the same stream will be used to record locally and centrally, and Automatic Network Replenishment is used to fill any gaps in the centralized recording dues to network interruptions.\nA major justification for centralized storage is that we can use enormous RAID disk arrays, reducing the cost per terabyte. These cost savings must be balanced against the advantages above. The ideal solution is to seamlessly combine both approaches—when the network bandwidth is available and reliable then use it, but when it is severely limited or intermittent, then use recording at the edge.\n\nAnother significant benefit of centralized systems is the relative simplicity of system management, because everything is co-located in one room or data center rather than dispersed across hundreds or thousands of miles. For recording at the edge to be a pragmatic solution it is critical to include centralized health monitoring and associated system management utilities. These include SNMP compatibility to network management systems such as Tivoli and HP Open View, and the ability to reconfigure and upgrade multiple units simultaneously.\n\nAnalog-to-DVR systems do not offer edge recording. This is because the analog cameras must first record to a central DVR; the video is then compressed into a digital format, and then stored typically on a hard drive inside the unit. All of this must be done before it can record to SD or attached hard drive.\n\nIP Camera systems on the other hand do not require analog to digital conversion so can record digital video directly to SD cards inside the camera, or to attached hard drive.\n"}
{"id": "224755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224755", "title": "Rivonia Trial", "text": "Rivonia Trial\n\nThe Rivonia Trial took place in South Africa between 9 October 1963 and 12 June 1964. The Rivonia Trial led to the imprisonment of Nelson Mandela and the others among the accused who were convicted of sabotage and sentenced to life at the Palace of Justice, Pretoria.\n\nThe Rivonia Trial was named after Rivonia, the suburb of Johannesburg where leaders had been arrested (and documents discovered) at Liliesleaf Farm, privately owned by Arthur Goldreich, on 11 July 1963. The farm had been used as a hideout by various people and groups including the African National Congress. Among others, Nelson Mandela had moved onto the farm in October 1961 and evaded security police while masquerading as a gardener and cook called David Motsamayi (meaning \"David the walker\").\n\nArrested were:\n\nGoldberg, Bernstein, Wolpe, Kantor and Goldreich were Jewish South Africans; Hepple was an Englishman; Kathrada an Indian Muslim; Mandela, Mbeki and Mhlaba were Xhosa people; Motsoaledi and Mlangeni were Pedi people and Sisulu was Coloured (he had an English father and an Xhosa mother).\n\nThe leaders who were prosecuted in the Rivonia Trial also included Nelson Mandela, who was already in Johannesburg's Fort prison serving a five-year sentence for inciting workers to strike and leaving the country illegally. Most of the Rivonia defendants were to be convicted, and in turn sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nThe government took advantage of legal provisions allowing for accused persons to be held for 90 days without trial, and the defendants were held incommunicado. Withstanding beatings and torture, Goldreich and Wolpe escaped from jail on 11 August. Their escape infuriated the prosecutors and police who considered Goldreich to be \"the arch-conspirator\".\n\nThe chief prosecutor was Dr. Percy Yutar, deputy attorney-general of the Transvaal.\n\nThe presiding judge was Dr. Quartus de Wet, judge-president of the Transvaal.\n\nThe first trial indictment document listed 11 names as the accused. The trial began in October 1963. Counsel for the accused successfully challenged the legal sufficiency of the document, with the result that Justice de Wet quashed it. Prior to dismissal of the first indictment, the State withdrew all charges against Bob Hepple, Hepple subsequently fled the country, without testifying, and stated \"that he never had any intention of testifying\". The second indictment thus only listed 10 out of the original 11 names, referring to them as Accused 1 through 10.\n\nNat Levy was attorney of record in Pretoria for Mandela and the other accused, with the exception of Kantor. Hilda Bernstein (wife of Rusty Bernstein) approached Joffe, after being rebuffed by other lawyers who claimed to be too busy or afraid to act for her husband. Joffe was subsequently also approached by Albertina Sisulu (wife of Walter Sisulu), Annie Goldberg (mother of Dennis Goldberg) and Winnie Mandela (wife of Nelson Mandela). Joffe agreed to act as attorney for all of the accused except Kantor, who would require separate counsel, and Bob Hepple.\n\nJoffe initially secured the services of advocates Arthur Chaskalson and George Bizos, then persuaded Bram Fischer to act as lead counsel. Vernon Berrangé was also later recruited to join the team of advocates. The defence line-up for the majority of the accused was:\n\n\nThe accused all agreed that Kantor's defence could share nothing in common with the rest of the accused. He thus arranged a separate defence team. While Harold Hanson primarily represented Kantor, he was also invited to deliver the plea for mitigation for the other 9 accused. The defence line-up for Kantor was\n\n\nCharges were:\n\n\n\"Production requirements\" for munitions for a six-month period were sufficient, the prosecutor Percy Yutar said in his opening address, to blow up a city the size of Johannesburg.\n\nKantor was discharged at the end of the prosecution's case.\n\nThe trial was condemned by the United Nations Security Council and nations around the world, leading to international sanctions against the South African government in some cases.\n\n\nAt the beginning of the defence's proceedings, Nelson Mandela gave a three-hour speech from the defendant's dock, in which he explained and defended the ANC's key political positions. He justified the movement's decision, in view of the increasing restrictions on permitted political activity on the part of non-White Africans, to go beyond its earlier use of constitutional methods and Gandhian non-violent opposition to the state, embracing a campaign of sabotage against property (designed to minimize risks of injury and death), while also starting to train a military wing for possible future use. He also discussed in some detail the relationship between the ANC and the SACP, explaining that, while the two shared a commitment to action against the apartheid system, he was wedded to a model of constitutional democracy for South Africa (he singled out the British political model for particular praise), and also supported a market economy rather than a communist economic model. The speech is considered one of the founding moments of South African democracy.\n\nMandela's closing words have been much-quoted. They were reportedly spoken looking the judge full in the eyes. His statement that he was prepared to die for the cause was strongly resisted by his lawyers, who feared it might itself provoke a death sentence. In a concession to their concerns, Mandela inserted the words \"if it needs be\". Nelson Mandela, speaking in the dock of the court on 20 April 1964, said:\n\nAlthough the prosecution did not formally request the death penalty, close observers of the trial considered such a sentence to be implicit in the prosecutor's presentation of his case. Opposition to the death penalty included both public campaigns internationally and the defence's arguments within the courtroom. Harold Hanson was called upon to argue in mitigation. He compared the African struggle for rights to the earlier Afrikaans struggle, citing precedents for temperate sentencing, even in cases of treason. Eight defendants were sentenced to life imprisonment; Lionel Bernstein was acquitted. Unsubstantiated evidence suggests that Hanson, in a private hearing with de Wet, persuaded him to commute the death sentence for high treason to life imprisonment.\n\nDenis Goldberg went to Pretoria Central Prison instead of Robben Island (at that time the only security wing for white political prisoners in South Africa), where he served 22 years.\n\nNelson Mandela spent 27 years and eight months in prison as a result of the Rivonia trial (18 years of which were spent on Robben Island). He was released on 11 February 1990 by order of President F. W. de Klerk.\n\nThe Rivonia Trial was recorded on Dictabelts, a now obsolete audio recording format. Nearly 250 hours of the trial proceedings were recorded on 591 Dictabelts, kept by the National Archives and Records Service of South Africa (NARSSA). In 2001 seven of the Dictabelts were digitised by the British Library. This included 'I am prepared to die' Nelson Mandela's statement from the dock. In 2007 documents relating to the Criminal Court Case No. 253/1963 (State Versus N Mandela and Others) were recommended for inclusion in the Memory of the World Register in 2007. In 2012 NARSSA approached the French Institute of South Africa (IFAS) and the French National Audiovisual Institute (INA) to start a process of digitisation and restoration of the rest of the Rivonia Trial sound archive. French engineer, historian and inventor, took a little over 15 months to edit and digitize 230 hours of recording using his own invention the Archeophone.\n\nThe digitised recordings were officially returned to South Africa, in 2018, as part of Nelson Mandela's Centenary, a one-day international colloquium \"Listening to the Rivonia Trial : Courts, Archives and Liberation Movements\" was organised to commemorate, discussing issues relating to the act of collecting, mapping, digitising and restoring archives and raising ethical questions that, in turn, become historical questions.\n\nThe 2017 film titled \"Bram Fischer\" (also titled \"An Act of Defiance\") covers the story of the trial focusing on the involvement of the defence's lead counsel, Bram Fischer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "976139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976139", "title": "Sacrificial lamb", "text": "Sacrificial lamb\n\nA sacrificial lamb is a metaphorical reference to a person or animal sacrificed for the common good. The term is derived from the traditions of Abrahamic religion where a lamb is a highly valued possession.\n\nIn politics, a sacrificial lamb candidate is a candidate chosen to contest an election despite the fact that he or she has little chance of victory. The political party thus appoints the person as a sort of \"sacrifice\" to the stronger opponent.\n\nIn some cases, fielding a sacrificial lamb candidate can serve as an opportunity for the party to be more creative in choosing a candidate than would normally be considered acceptable in a closely contested race. Alan Keyes and Geraldine A. Ferraro are examples in American politics. In 1956, Adlai Stevenson was considered a sacrificial lamb candidate for president against Dwight Eisenhower. In 2004, Howard Mills was considered a sacrificial lamb candidate for the U.S. Senate from New York against Chuck Schumer.\n\nIn cinema and literature, the term sacrificial lamb refers to a supporting character whose sole dramatic purpose is to die, thus galvanizing the protagonist to action and simultaneously demonstrating how evil the villain is. Very often, the sacrificial lamb is a family member, partner, or \"old buddy\" of the protagonist, with whom he or she has an assumed intimacy, thus requiring no real character development. The term is almost always used critically, with the implication that the character was used transparently as a plot device.\n\nAn example of this in early literature is Macaria in \"Heracleidae\" by Euripides. A more modern example is Anthony Edwards' character, \"Goose\", in \"Top Gun\" as well as \"Phil Coulson\" in \"The Avengers\".\n\nWhen escorting cattle across a river suspected of having piranhas, farmers will sometimes sacrifice a sick or injured cow downstream before letting the herd enter the water.\n\n"}
{"id": "2788270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2788270", "title": "The Peace!", "text": "The Peace!\n\nThe single version (later preserved on the \"Best! Morning Musume 2\" anthology) contains a fade-out, suggesting to the listener that the song's multiple false endings continued infinitely. The version heard on the album \"4th Ikimashoi!\" is billed as the \"Complete Version\" and does not fade out, instead coming to a stop several seconds beyond the single version's fadeout.\n\n\nAll lyrics are composed by Tsunku.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51615572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51615572", "title": "Thomas Moody (1779–1849)", "text": "Thomas Moody (1779–1849)\n\nColonel Thomas Moody (1779–1849), , Knight of the Order of Military Merit of France, was a British Aide-de-camp to the Colonial Office, Royal Engineer, and merchant. He served as the Commander of the Royal Engineers in the West Indies, as the Director of several trading companies in the City of London, and as an Advisor to the East India Company.\n\nMoody was Parliamentary Commissioner into the conditions of African slaves in the West Indies, as which he engaged in a feud with Lord Macaulay. Moody's ultimate conclusion was that the indentured Africans in the West Indies should be taken back to West Africa.\n\nIn 1828, Moody and his friend Sir James Stirling offered to colonise Australia using their own capital, but were prohibited from doing so by the British Government.\n\nHe was the father of Major-General Richard Clement Moody, the founder of British Columbia and first British Governor of the Falkland Islands, and Colonel Hampden Clement Blamire Moody CB, the Commander of the Royal Engineers in China, amongst others.\n\nThomas was born into a family with an extensive history of military service to the British Empire. He was the third son of Thomas Moody (1732–1796) and Barbara Blamire (1740–1806), who was a member of the Blamire family of Cumberland and a cousin of William Blamire MP, High Sheriff of Cumberland, and a cousin of the poet Susanna Blamire. He was born in Longtown, Cumbria. His eldest brother, Charles, was a merchant in the West Indies, and his other brother, George, was a surgeon.\n\nIn character, Moody was obsessed with social hierarchy, discipline, and surveillance: with what he termed 'the bonds of respect and subordination'.\n\nMoody was a Freemason and was described by Sir Humphrey Fleming Senhouse as 'an Officer of high character and reputation'.\nMoody was incorporated in diverse factions of the London establishment. Inside the Colonial Office, Moody had 'all its archives open to him'. In the City of London, Moody was an Advisor to the East India Company; a Director of the Crown Life Assurance Company, of 33 Bridge Street, Blackfriars; and a Director of the New Brunswick and Nova Scotia Land Company, of 5 Coptball Court, London. \nHe was a member of the Political Economy Club, at which he disputed with both James Mill and John Ramsay McCulloch, and at which he admired the philosophy of Jean-Baptiste Say. Moody’s other friends included Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, with whom he had an extensive private correspondence, and after\nwhom he named one of his sons; Shute Barrington, Bishop of Durham, after whom he named another of his sons; Sir James Leith, after whom he named another of his sons; Sir Humphrey Fleming Senhouse; Charles-Augustin de Coulomb; James Macqueen; James Mangles; Thomas Hyde Villiers; and Sir James Stirling.\n\nMoody was a polymath who read in several languages, and in diverse subjects, including philosophy, climatology, sociology, economics, history, and physics. His reading included the works of Montesquieu; William Petty; William Robertson; Charles-Augustin de Coulomb (whom he knew personally, and of whom he was a fervent admirer);Johannes van den Bosch; and those of the Africans Toussaint Louverture and Henri Christophe. He was also influenced by the African Jean-Pierre Boyer, the President of Haiti. He disputed the economic philosophy of James Mill, that of John Ramsay McCulloch, and that of Adam Smith, and admired the philosophy of Jean-Baptiste Say.\nMoody was also extensively read in abolitionist literature.\n\nMoody arrived in Barbados in 1797, to serve as mathematics master, writing master, and Assistant Headmaster, of Codrington College, at which he served until 1805. In these positions, Moody demonstrated such an aptitude for mathematics that Lord Seaforth, the British General in Barbados, granted Moody his patronage, and procured for Moody a direct commission in the Royal Engineers, which Moody entered as a Lieutenant on 1 July 1806. Moody's first duty was to administer the Office of Ordinance in Demerara, and he proceeded, subsequently, to distinguish himself in the Napoleonic Wars. Moody was promoted to Second Captain on 1 May 1811; to Captain on 20 December 1814; and to Brevet Major on 23 May 1816. \n\nMoody served as aide-de-camp to Sir James Leith, who was Governor of Barbados from May 1815 to October 1816, and Superintendent of the Crown Plantations in Guadeloupe. Moody named his son James Leith Moody after Leith, of whom he was a fervent admirer. During his service as aide-de-camp to Leith, Thomas Moody was involved in the successful Invasion of Guadeloupe (1815), for which he was subsequently knighted, in 1820, by Louis XVIII, in the Order of Military Merit. Moody also served as aide-de-camp to both the President of Tortola; and to Stapleton Cotton, 1st Viscount Combermere, who was Governor of Barbados from 1817 to 1820, after whom Moody named one of his sons. Thomas was put on half-pay by the Army, in 1815, at the cessation of the Napoleonic Wars, in which he had served with distinction: subsequently, he spent one year in Guiana as an attorney for Wolfert Katz, who was the wealthiest planter in the colony.\n\nIn 1816, Moody was responsible for the transfer of groups of rescued Africans to the Crown estates in Guadeloupe. Moody believed that rescued Africans made an 'extremely useful' contribution to the British Empire. His competent performance in this appointment may have contributed to his subsequent appointment as a Parliamentary Commissioner on Slavery.\n\nMoody owned plantations in Barbados by 1816, but he supported the Barbados Slave Rebellions of September and October 1816, which he witnessed, and which he described as an attempt 'by the mass of the slaves... to gain independence'.\n\nThomas owned extensive plantations and estates in the Caribbean, including in Barbados, Guiana, Demerara, Berbice, and Tortola. He was a claimant on insolvent estates in Berbice in 1827 (\"The Times\", 4 April 1827, p. 4) and was awarded the compensation for one enslaved person in British Guiana.\nIn 1820, Moody was knighted by Louis XVIII in the Order of Military Merit for defending the French colony of Guadeloupe. He was permitted by George IV to wear the Cross of the Order whilst in Britain, but not to use the title 'Sir'. Moody received the rank of Major in the British Army for his services in conflicts in the West Indies.\n\nIn 1821, William Wilberforce proposed to the House of Commons the creation a Commission to investigate the condition of slaves in the West Indies due to omnipresent reports that the Slave Trade Act 1807, which had made the trade of slaves illegal, was being universally violated by wealthy plantation owners, who were redesignating their slaves as 'apprentices' and continuing to trade. There were to be two commissioners who were to report to Lord Bathurst, Secretary of State for War and the Colonies. Moody and John Dougan (1765-1826) volunteered for each of the commissionerships and were selected by Bathurst. Moody was a friend of the President of Tortola, the island on which the commissioners were to commence their investigations.\n\nDougan was the son of an owner of sugar plantations on Demerara: Dougan stated, 'all my nearest relations and friends were either Planters or Owners of slaves'. Dougan had lived on Tortola, where he worked as a merchant, privateer, Prize Agent for the Royal Navy, and Colonial administrator. Dougan was the uncle of Moody's wife, Martha Clement, and the son of a slave-plantation owner.\n\nDougan was influenced by the zealous idealism of Whig agitators in England, such as the Quaker John Barton, and by the Clapham Sect, with which he was associated. Moody, in contradistinction, was influenced by Montesquieu, William Petty, William Robertson, Charles-Augustin de Coulomb, Johannes van den Bosch, and by the Africans Toussaint Louverture, Henri Christophe, and Jean-Pierre Boyer, the President of Haiti. Moody was also extensively read in abolitionist literature, and had noted that Stephen's recommendation, in 1802, of a period of indenture had provided the basis for both the Act for the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and for the Orders in Council.\n\nMoody and Dougan arrived on Tortola in May 1822. Moody objected to the interview process recommended by the Commission, in which masters and apprentices were supposed to be interviewed together, because he thought that it were 'calculated to excite complaints of the servant against the master'. Among the ex-slaverowners interviewed by Moody was Abraham Mendes Belisario, the Deputy Provost Marshal of Tortola, who possessed 17 African apprentices. As a consequence of the unreliability of the reports of apprentices that such masters provided, which were known as 'Characters' of apprentices, Moody insisted that such reports should not be heard, nor quoted in the official Commission report, but that he and Dougan, the Commissioners, should specify only their own opinions of the masters of the apprentices.\n\nThe Commissioners recorded that many black African apprentices were employed by free black Africans. When ‘apprentices’ employed by H. C. Maclean, a prosperous merchant who served as Comptroller of the Customs on Tortola, complained to the Commission, Macclean had them beaten. Moody refused to criticise Macclean: Dougan objected to Moody's refusal, but received no sympathy amongst the Colonial administration of the islands. This event provoked a spiteful feud between Dougan and Moody: Dougan complained about the 'state of Irritation and Disunion of the Commission'. Dougan attempted to reconcile himself with Moody, but Moody refused to forgive him, and, as a consequence, Dougan was compelled to resign from the Commission, in June 1822, to return to England, and to submit his report to the House of Commons in private. In this report, dated 20 December 1823, Dougan contends that \"free labour in the West Indies is preferable to compulsory labour\". On his resignation, Dougan stated that '[the] repeated attacks, the State of Irritation of Major Moody's Mind, and all hopes of Conciliation [were] ended': however, their 'protracted and unpleasant dispute' continued even after the death of Dougan, in 1826, subsequent to which his efforts for reform were continued by his daughter, Mary, between whom and Moody the feud continued.\n\nIn 1824, Moody's friend Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, forwarded one of Moody's papers to George Canning, then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Subsequently, in 1825, Moody returned to London and presented to the House of Commons an exposition of the reasons for his refusal to sign the report prepared by Dougan in Tortola, in addition to the official Commission report, which he had completed on his own, without Dougan, and which he submitted without the consent of Dougan, that is dated 2 March 1825, and consists of over 200 pages. Moody's official Commission report contends that \"without some species of coercion African labour would be worthless\". The Whig Lord Macaulay described Moody's report as 'in substance, a defence of West Indian slavery', but Moody described his theories as a 'Philosophy of Labour', and himself as a 'practical philanthropist'. Lord Macaulay's description is inaccurate because, although Moody desired the employment of Africans, Moody did not desire their employment under conditions of enslavement: indeed, Moody had supported the Barbados Slave Rebellions of September and October 1816, despite owning plantations in Barbados. \nMoody was influenced by the theory of the climatological determination of the human constitution that was advocated by Montesquieu, and contended that it were a 'physical fact' that only blacks possessed the ability to perform agricultural labour in the 'torrid zone'. Moody was also extensively read in abolitionist literature.\n\nMoody's ultimate conclusion was that the indentured Africans in the West Indies should be taken back to West Africa.\n\nMoody submitted a second report, also of over 200 pages, in 1826. Moody's philosophy also analysed Dutch agricultural colonies, the Bengal peasantry, slavery in India, prostitution in Sierra Leone, slavery in the United States, and the American Colonization Society for African-American settlement in West Africa.\n\nMoody's philosophy, which incorporated innumerable scholarly references, won the advocacy of the director of the Commission, Lord Bathurst, and of his Under-Secretary, Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, with whom Moody had an extensive private correspondence; of the Tories; and of the advocates of Britain's\ncolonial empire: Parliament declared Moody's ‘great experience in the control of labour, both slave and free, both African and European, in garrison, and in the field’, and his notions were highly influential in London society in its entirety. Moody was incorporated in diverse factions of the London establishment. Inside the Colonial Office, Moody had 'all its archives open to him'. Moody was a friend of the imperialist James Macqueen, to whom he provided inside information, which Macqueen would not disclose, throughout the period 1824 - 1828. Moody was a member of the Political Economy Club, at which he disputed with both James Mill and John Ramsay McCulloch, and at which he stated his admiration for the philosophy of Jean-Baptiste Say. Moody maintained an extensive private correspondence with Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, (after whom he named one of his sons), and another with Shute Barrington, Bishop of Durham (after whom he named another of his sons), before he returned to the West Indies. In the City of London, Moody was an Advisor to the East India Company; a Director of the Crown Life Assurance Company, of 33 Bridge Street, Blackfriars; and a Director of the New Brunswick and Nova Scotia Land Company, of 5 Coptball Court, London. Subsequent to the publication of his reports, Moody became increasingly close to James Mangles, the Director of the East India Company, to whom he subsequently proffered advice regarding the settlement of the Swan River Colony at minimal cost to the British Government. However, Moody's report provoked the Whigs, evangelicals, and abolitionists to ire. Zachary Macaulay and other abolitionists condemned Moody's philosophy in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, and Lord Macaulay cited Moody's reports in an anti-slavery essay that was published in the Edinburgh Review in\nin 1827. Moody's contentions and his style of expression were condemned by Lord Macaulay, and in a series of anonymous letters to the Morning Chronicle newspaper, all which provoked extensive defensive refutations from Moody. Throughout the period in which London political society responded to his reports, Moody maintained a continuous dialogue with the Colonial Office, in which he vigorously refuted the criticisms of his reports, and repudiated the doctrines of his critics in private correspondences and in the newspapers. Moody's friends Sir Robert Wilmot Horton and Thomas Hyde Villiers MP also wrote articles - under the pseudonym 'Vindex', which Moody had also used - to the Star newspaper, in which they refuted the objections that others had made to Moody's philosophy and defended Moody. Moody proceeded to testify before the Privy Council, on the matter, in 1828. Moody's report influenced Lord Bathurst, Sir Henry Taylor, and James Stephen.\n\nDougan was infuriated when he discovered that Moody had submitted the report without his consent, and began to compose a response, but he died, destitute, in September 1826, before he had completed his response. Dougan's response was completed after his death by his daughter, Mary, but it was intercepted by Moody, who annotated it extensively with refutations, before it reached Bathurst. A feud between Moody and Mary Dougan continued after the death of John Dougan.\n\nFor their efforts, Dougan and Moody were each made a Justice of the Peace.\n\nWhen the British Government abandoned plans to implement the plans of Sir James Stirling to settle the Swan River Colony, Stirling and Moody, in August 1828, offered form an association of private capitalists that would settle Australia, using their own capital, observing the 'principles' that had been observed by William Penn in the settlement of Pennsylvania, but this proposal was rejected by the government.\n\nMoody’s residential office at the Colonial Office was abolished in 1828. His departure from this office was a consequence of his 'unpopularity with the saints'. Moody returned to the West Indies in 1828, to perform special service in the Dutch Colonies for Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, which he completed in 1829. During this period in which he were in the West Indies, Moody rose from the rank of Major to that of Colonel in the Royal Engineers. \nMoody served as Commander of the Royal Engineers in the West Indies from 1829 to 1837: he was made a Lieutenant-Colonel in 1830 and had been promoted to Colonel by 1847.\n\nThe British Government considered Moody to be a highly competent civil engineer and consulted him in regard of several important projects, such as the Caledonian Railway, the West Cumberland Railway, and the Furness Railway, and the embankments at Morecambe Bay and at Duddon Sands. For his civil engineering, Moody received a DCL degree from the University of Oxford.\n\nThe Government appointed Moody as the director of two major government manufactories, one making gunpowder and the other making small arms, at Waltham Abbey.\n\nThomas was posted, by the Colonial Office, to Guernsey in 1846.\n\nThomas Moody's London residences were 7 Alfred Place, Bedford Square, and 23 Bolton Street, Mayfair. He died on 5 September 1849 at Berrywood House, near Southampton. In 1852, an advertisement appeared in The Times (02/06/1852 p. 1.) for unclaimed stock of the value of £120 that had been the property of 'Lieutenant-Colonel [sic] Thomas Moody, of Waltham Abbey', and the dividends of which had been unclaimed since 1839.\n\nIt is likely that the illustrious reputation, at the Colonial Office, that Thomas had acquired, contributed to the Office's decision to appoint his son, Richard Clement Moody, to the position of Lieutenant-Governor of the Falkland Islands when Richard Clement Moody was only the unprecedentedly young age of 28 years. Thomas's reputation may also have contributed to the appointment of Richard Clement Moody as the first Lieutenant-Governor of British Columbia, by Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton, in 1858.\n\nOn 1 January 1809, Thomas married Martha Clement (1764–1868), who was the daughter of Richard Clement (1754–1829), a Dutch landowner of Barbados, and the niece of John Dougan (1765-1826). Thomas's father in law, Richard Clement, after whom Thomas named his son Richard Clement Moody, was the owner of the Black Bess (196 slaves) and Clement Castle (220 slaves) estates on St Peter's Island, which passed to Clement's sole remaining son, Hampden Clement, on his death. Thomas and Martha had 10 children, 8 of whom were living at the time of their father's death.\n"}
{"id": "19799715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19799715", "title": "Transnationality Index", "text": "Transnationality Index\n\nThe Transnationality Index (TNI) is a means of ranking multinational corporations that is employed by economists and politicians. It is calculated as the arithmetic mean of the following three ratios (where \"foreign\" means outside of the corporation's home country):\n\nThe Transnationality Index was developed by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.\n\nMultinational corporations are also ranked by the amount of foreign assets that they own. However, the TNI ranking can differ markedly from this. For example, as of 2000, General Electric was the second largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign assert ownership. However, it ranked only 73rd by the TNI, with an index of only 40%. Although the company had large investments outside of the United States, most of its sales, employment, and assets were within the U.S.. In contrast, Exxon has a TNI of 68% and Vodafone has a TNI of 81%. As of 2001, General Electric ranked 75th, with a TNI of 36.7%. The 14 most transnational corporations originated in small countries (Switzerland, the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Belgium, and Canada), whereas the largest multinational corporations in terms of foreign asset ownership all had low TNI scores. General Motors, the fourth largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign asset ownership only ranked 83rd (30.7%) on the TNI top 100. IBM ranked 50th (53.7%), Volkswagen ranked 45th (55.7%), and Toyota, the sixth largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign asset ownership, only ranked 82nd (30.9%) on the broader TNI scale.\n\nPeter Dicken, an honorary fellow of the School of Environment and Development at the University of Manchester, argues that TNI data refute the assertions of hyperglobalism. The data, he argues, prove false the claim that multinational corporations are \"inexorably, and inevitably, abandoning their ties to their country of origin\". If that were the case, we would expect the largest multinational corporations to have the majority of their assets, sales, and employmnent outside of their countries of origin, and thus the majority of those corporations to have high TNIs. In fact, in the UNCTAD TNI data for the top 100 multinational corporations for 2001, the mean TNI is 52.6%, 57 of the 100 have a TNI greater than 50%, and only a mere 16 have a TNI greater than 75%. Thus, he concludes, measured TNI data provide little evidence for multinational corporations having the proportions of their assets, sales, and employees outside of their home countries that one would expect for truly global firms.\n\n"}
{"id": "36511902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36511902", "title": "Urban beekeeping", "text": "Urban beekeeping\n\nUrban beekeeping is the practice of keeping bee colonies in urban areas. It may also be referred to as hobby beekeeping or backyard beekeeping. Bees from city apiaries are said to be \"healthier and more productive than their country cousins\". Their presence also provides cities with environmental and economic benefits.\n\nMost cities in North America at one time prohibited the keeping of bees, but in recent years beekeepers have had success in overturning bee bans. Bees pollinate a wide variety of plants, and the honey they produce is often sold to local restaurants and in local shops. Many urban areas now regulate beekeeping, and while registering beehives is often mandatory, a high proportion of urban beekeepers fail to inform the city.\n\nThe popularity of urban beekeeping was growing rapidly c. 2012 perhaps due to its inclusion in the local food movement. Between 1999 and 2012, London saw a 220% increase in beekeepers. The number of urban beehives varies greatly from city to city, and official counts may be inaccurate as hives are often not registered. As cities have limited greenspaces, the increasing popularity of the hobby may lead to lower honey yields as has been reported in London and New York City. According to a 2015 research study, urban environments favor viability and transmission of some disease agents that affect honey bees and may be a contributing factor to their diseases. \n\nOne problem created by a surfeit of bees is swarming, when a queen leaves an overcrowded colony with a retinue of workers to start her own.\n\nSome cities are veritable hives of beekeeping activity while others offer plentiful green space but harbor few apiaries.\nIn 2016, Detroit natives: Timothy Paule and Nicole Lindsey founded Detroit Hives, a 501C(3) Michigan non-profit organization who's mission is to help spread bee awareness, support the conservation of honey bees and educate communities, schools and businesses about bees and their importance to our environment. Detroit Hives was the first to practice honey bee conservation from empty vacant lots in Detroit. Their motto \"Work Hard, Stay Bumble\" resonates the embodiment of Detroit.\n\nIn 2003, Richard M. Daley, then Mayor of Chicago, had two beehives placed atop City Hall. Michael S. Thompson was put in charge of their care. Subsequently, the bee population in the city has grown.\n\nIn 2013, a ban on beekeeping was defeated in the Chicago suburb of Skokie. The village may regulate backyard beekeeping in the future.\n\nBeekeepers in Halifax must register with the Nova Scotia Department of Agriculture. In the downtown area of the city, it has been suggested that beekeeping should be limited to rooftops.\n\nJohannesburg has over 6 million trees and on satellite pictures looks like a rain forest. This environment is highly beneficial for urban beekeepers, who often have higher honey yields per hive than other Highveld beekeepers. In South Africa, anyone who handles bees must be registered as a beekeeper with the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (South Africa).\n\nBeekeeping in London has become increasingly popular. The number of beekeepers rose 220% between 1999 and 2012 with other figures showing a 200% increase between 2008 and 2013. As of 2012, an estimated 3,200 apiaries exist in London, and while registration is mandatory, 75% were thought to operate without license. The density of hives in London is much greater than in other areas of the UK, and this has led to concerns that city greenspace may not provide sufficient forage to sustain burgeoning bee populations.\n\nThe UK government has aided the rise of keeping bees in cities by releasing a plastic beehive purpose-built for urban beekeeping. Called Beehaus, it is supported by quango Natural England. Organizations supporting best practices for urban beekeeping in London include The London Beekeeper's Association, which holds monthly meetings, provides mentoring to new beekeepers, and lends out beekeeping supplies.\n\nIn London, bees are kept at department store Fortnum & Mason, Lambeth Palace, Buckingham Palace, the London Stock Exchange, the Natural History Museum, the Tate Modern, and at the Royal Lancaster Hotel, etc. Hives once stood atop the Bank of England as well.\n\nIn 2010, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, passed a beekeeping ordinance allowing individuals to practice beekeeping in the urban center of the city. Since the ordinance was passed, a variety of urban beekeepers have started taking part in Milwaukee's Community Pollinator Initiative.\n\nMontreal's beehives are regulated by a governmental agency called MAPAQ, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Quebec). This agency enforces a set of regulations surrounding the installation of a beehive in order to protect the health of colonies, but these rules are rarely restrictive enough to deter or discourage committed hobbyists.\n\nThe Westmount Library, a locus of learning and community, has a public honeybee hive on its roof featuring live inspections every two weeks during the summer months for kids, parents, and the elderly. Montreal Botanical Gardens hosts honeybees as a part of their summer expositions with introductory workshops and daily tour groups. \n\nAs part of their 135th anniversary, Birks Group installed three honeybee hives on the roof of their downtown headquarters in Montreal.\n\nIn the summer of 2014, the Accueil Bonneau homeless facility launched a pilot project introducing their itinerant community to the art of beekeeping as a means of re-engaging them in a fulfilling and meaningful hobby.\n\nMost of the public beekeeping initiatives stem from companies offering beekeeping services that make it more accessible to urban dwellers, such as Alveole, Apiguru, or Miel Montreal. The move towards a comprehensive approach to producing local produce is part of why beekeeping is becoming increasingly popular in this metropolitan city.\n\nUntil 2010, beekeeping was illegal in New York City, but this had little effect on the many New Yorkers who built and maintained hives. Prior to being recognized by the city, urban beekeeping had become an established hobby, and a support network of organizations, blogs, and supply stores was already in place. When the ban was lifted, only the non-aggressive \"Apis Mellifera\" species was allowed to be kept. While registering beehives is required, as of 2012 only half of the 400 bee colonies thought to be situated on New York rooftops had been reported to the city.\nIn New York, there are beehives at InterContinental The Barclay Hotel, the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, the York Prep School, the Brooklyn Navy Yard, and the Bank of America Tower (New York City).\n\nWhile urban beekeeping is touted as a new trend, hives have been kept discreetly in Toronto for many years. Several beekeepers kept around fifty hives each along the Don River in the beginning of the 20th century, and there was a beekeeping co-op near the Don Valley Brick Works into the late 1950s. Mayor William Dennison kept nineteen colonies in his Jarvis Street backyard in the 70s. In the 1970s, beekeeping equipment could be bought downtown’s Little Italy / Little Portugal area.\n\nC. 2015, Toronto does not have a bylaw governing beekeeping, so the Ontario Bees Act applies. The Act does not address urban beekeeping but contains a 30-meter set back requirement for property lines, and a 10-meter set back requirement for highways; however the rule has gone largely unenforced as few urban lots are spacious enough to meet requirements concerning proximity to property lines, dwellings, and highways. In 2011, there were 107 registered hives in Toronto.\n\nSome of the many Toronto landmarks host to honeybee hives include: the Fort York historic site, the rooftop of the Four Seasons Centre for the Performing Arts, the University of Toronto, the roof of Amsterdam Brewing Company, and the Fairmont Royal York hotel.\n\nOften regarded as a green and sustainable city, the City of Vancouver has recognized hobby beekeeping in residential areas by issuing guidelines and requiring hives to be registered.\n\nIn Vancouver, Vancouver Convention Centre and Vancouver City Hall are two places where bees are kept. \n\nOne hotel chain that uses beekeeping as a point of differentiation in Vancouver is Fairmont. In 2008, Fairmont started placing beehives on hotel rooftop gardens. Today the hotel franchise operates global beekeeping initiatives at over 20 properties. Both Fairmont Waterfront Vancouver and Fairmont Vancouver Airport have hives either attached to the hotel or residing nearby. At Fairmont Waterfront, hotel guests are treated to a guided tour of the hives and gardens. Currently, the Fairmont Vancouver Airport houses “one million honey bees [...] who produce about 2,400 pounds of honey.” At the Fairmont Waterfront, 500,000 bees work together to “produce 600-800 pounds of honey per year.” The honey from the hives is then used by hotel chefs.\n\nIn 2014, Fairmont started building empty nesting sites, so-called \"bee hotels,\" to help attract wild mason bees. In 2015 Fairmont Waterfront partnered with Hives For Humanity to create a bee pollinator hotel. The practice may not be entirely beneficial as one biologist suggests bee hotels “favor non-native species of bees and wasps over our native species\".\nThe number of beekeepers in the city is growing rapidly: 300 in 2010, there are today more than 1000. Young people are more and more interested in the hobby, book beginner courses at the beekeepers and share photos of their work on internet. Beekeeper associations are speaking of a boom.\n\n\nUrban beekeeping exists in many major cities and has been reported in: Berlin, Hamburg, Hong Kong, Melbourne, Sydney, and Tokyo, amongst others.\n"}
