{"id": "8722085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8722085", "title": "Adolf Gottlieb Fiedler", "text": "Adolf Gottlieb Fiedler\n\nAdolf Gottlieb (also: Gottlob) Fiedler (1771 – 12 August 1850) was a German entrepreneur in Saxony and Poland.\n\nBorn in Dresden as the son of Christian Gottlob Fiedler, Adolf was one of the most important cloth producers of Saxony in the beginning of the 19th century. The operational seat of the company was in Oederan in Saxony. He also had factories in Kalisz and Opatówek (both in Poland), Wegefarth, Wingendorf, Falkenau and Berthelsdorf (all in Saxony). He followed other cloth producers to eastern regions at the time of the German industrial revolution because of lower salaries and large loans offered by the Polish government. The German investments in Poland were followed by experienced Saxon and Bohemian specialists to run the factories. An additional reason was local water power.\n\nFrom 1824-1826 Fiedler established one of the biggest cloth mills in Congress Poland. He employed around 600 workers in his Polish mill in Opatówek. The products of Fiedler were well known for their quality and won several international prizes.\n\nFiedler was also mayor of Oederan.\nHe had one son, Eduard Magnus and he died in Dresden.\n\n"}
{"id": "19264063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19264063", "title": "Ahmad Ismail (Malaysian politician)", "text": "Ahmad Ismail (Malaysian politician)\n\nDatuk Ahmad bin Ismail (born 1955), is a Malaysian politician and a member of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), serving as the chief of UMNO's Bukit Bendera (Penang Hill) division in the state of Penang.\n\nAhmad Ismail is known for controversial actions and remarks made in the fields of politics, business and sports, including the latest controversy in which he uttered incendiary remarks about the Chinese community during and after the Permatang Pauh by-election in August 2008, leading to his suspension by UMNO in September 2008.\n\nIn late August 2008, Ahmad Ismail was highlighted over racist remarks uttered during campaigning in a by-election in Permatang Pauh that primarily pitted Barisan Nasional candidate Arif Shah Omar Shah (UMNO) against Pakatan Rakyat candidate Anwar Ibrahim (PKR) for the Permatang Pauh parliamentary seat.\n\nOn 25 August 2008 local Chinese daily \"Sin Chew Daily\" reported a speech made by Ahmad Ismail on the evening of 23 August 2008 at Kampung Pelet to campaign for Arif Shah, in which he allegedly stated Malaysian Chinese were \"immigrants\" and \"squatters\", and could not have equal rights. In a 6 September statement by Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi, Ahmad was quoted that he merely uttered the remark based on historical facts and claimed it was not a racist statement as reported by \"Sin Chew Daily\", accusing the paper of misinterpreting him.\n\nDespite criticism of his remark in the by-election and expressing regret that it resulted in controversy, Ahmad remained defiant and refused to apologise. In a further outburst during a press conference on 8 September, Ahmad seditiously warned the Chinese community not to seek political power:\n\n\"The patience of the Malays and Muslims has a limit. Do not push us to the wall, as when we turn back we will be forced to push the Chinese in the interests of our own survival [...] The Chinese should not try to be like the Jews in America. It is not enough they control the economy, now they want political control.\"\n\nFollowing a meeting with Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi on 9 September, Ahmad would later be quoted in stating Malays were \"frustrated\" and that Malay \"dignity\" was at stake, remaining convinced that he is more nationalistic defending the Malays rather than being racist:\n\n\"Half the Chinese say I'm a racist but most Malays say I'm a nationalist defending my race [...] What I see now is a rise of the Malay people, and I feel we should capitalise on the strength, the support we get from the Malay people... I know they are with me.\"\n\nRevelations of Ahmad Ismail's comments during and after the by-election drew widespread criticism predominantly from the Chinese community. On 27 August, the youth wing of the Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA) demanded an apology from Ahmad, with secretary-general Wee Ka Siong stating Ahmad had angered the Chinese as well as other non-Malay communities; Wee had also received numerous complaints from the Chinese community in the past two days. On 9 September, Gerakan president Koh Tsu Koon announced Penang Gerakan has dissociated itself from UMNO's Penang branch, holding leaders of UMNO Penang accountable for failing to condemn Ahmad's conduct:\n\n\"We no longer want to be associated with Penang UMNO. We condemned the statement and irresponsible behaviour by Ahmad and his supporters. We are also extremely disappointed and saddened by the fact that many Penang UMNO leaders were present and condoned such irresponsible and insensitive statement and behaviour. He had twisted and turned a personal mistake into a conflict and crisis among BN component parties and the communities.\"\n\nViews among members of UMNO were less conclusive. Following revelations of Ahmad's comments in the by-election, Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi stated party leaders expressed \"regret and anger\" over Ahmad Ismail's remark, as UMNO considered actions to be taken against Ahmad. Former Law Minister Mohamed Nazri Abdul Aziz and former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammad voiced similar views that Ahmad Ismail should be held accountable for his remarks and issue an apology. In a 6 September report published by \"Utusan Malaysia\", Muhammad Muhammad Taib reiterated Ahamd's defence, asking the public, especially politicians, not to put forward baseless accusations against Ahmad, claiming his remarks could merely be used in the context of history rather than politics.\n\nIn 2008, UMNO imposed a suspension on Ahmad for three years.\n\nHowever stronger action than had been expected in a bid to soothe growing anger from the Chinese community and among parties in Barisan Nasional ruling coalition. On 12 September 2008 Sin Chew Daily reporter Tan Hoon Cheng who reported the speech made by Ahmad Ismail, had been arrested under the Internal Security Act at 8.30pm at her home in Bukit Mertajam, Penang.\n\nIn 1995, Peninsular Metroworks was founded with Ahmad Ismail as its executive chairman.\nThe company was a special purpose vehicle, intended to receive concession to develop the Penang Outer Ring Road (PORR), a project which was subsequently delayed by the federal government in 2008 following the 2008 general election. Additionally, a majority stake in Peninsular Metroworks was indirectly linked to Ahmad Ismail: A 55% stake in the company was held in its early years by Nadi Senandung Sdn Bhd, which Ahmad was the director of; the remaining 45% was held by Setegap Bhd and Kumpulan Pinang Holdings Sdn Bhd, the latter a full subsidiary of Yayasan Bumiputra Pulau Pinang .\n\nAhmad Ismail was also the director of Popular Profile Sdn Bhd, which the Penang Development Corporation believed had wrongfully taken and kept RM500,000 from the state in a botched land transaction for Bukit Minyak in 1998, before winding up in 2005; Ahmad was believed to have cut links with the company in 1998. A police report was lodged by Penang Development Corporation on 3 September 2008.\n\nCrossback Arowana Farm at Bukit Merah Perak is Ahmad's latest business venture. He is a major shareholder for this golden arowana breeding farm and most of his pricey arowanas are exported to Mainland China.\n\nIn addition to interests in politics and business, Ahmad Ismail was also the president of the Malaysian Sepak Takraw Association. During the 2007 Southeast Asian Games in Korat, Thailand, Ahmad led the pullout of Malaysia's sepak takraw team at the last minute.\n"}
{"id": "51266781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51266781", "title": "Al Panlilio", "text": "Al Panlilio\n\nAlfredo \"Al\" S. Panlilio is a Filipino businessman. He is the current Senior Vice President and head of customer retail services, corporate marketing and communications of the Manila Electric Company (MERALCO) and the team governor of the Meralco Bolts basketball team, currently playing in the Philippine Basketball Association (PBA). He was also a former Senior Vice President of MERALCO's sister company PLDT from 1999 to 2010. He is also a president of the MVP Sports Foundation.\n\nHe was elected as the new president of the Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP), on its election for its new set of board of directors of the basketball national sports association on August 8, 2016. He replaced Manuel V. Pangilinan, who served as the president since it was formed in 2007 and was recognized by the FIBA as the solely recognized governing body for basketball in the Philippines, replacing the Basketball Association of the Philippines (BAP).\n"}
{"id": "660289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660289", "title": "Art Rooney", "text": "Art Rooney\n\nArthur Joseph Rooney Sr. (January 27, 1901 – August 25, 1988), often referred to as \"The Chief\", was the founding owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers, an American football franchise in the National Football League (NFL), from 1933 until his death. Rooney is a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, was an Olympic qualifying boxer, and was part or whole owner in several track sport venues and Pittsburgh area pro teams. He was the first president of the Pittsburgh Steelers from 1933 to 1974, and the first chairman of the team from 1933 to 1988.\n\nRooney's great-grandparents, James and Mary Rooney, were Irish Catholics who emigrated from Newry in County Down, Ireland to Canada during the Irish potato famine in the 1840s. While living in Montreal, the Rooneys had a son, Arthur (who would become Art Rooney's grandfather). James and Mary later moved to Ebbw Vale, Wales, where the iron industry was flourishing, taking their son Arthur, then 21, with them. This Arthur Rooney married Catherine Regan (who was also Irish Catholic), in Wales, and they had a son, Dan. Two years after Dan Rooney was born, the family moved back to Canada and eventually ended up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1884. Along the way the family grew to include nine children of which Dan was the second.\n\nDan Rooney remained in the Pittsburgh area, and eventually opened a saloon in the Monongahela Valley coal town of Coulter, Pennsylvania (or Coultersville). This is where Dan Rooney met and wed Margaret \"Maggie\" Murray, who was the daughter of a coal miner, and where the couple's first son, Arthur Joseph Rooney, was born. Dan and Maggie would eventually settle their family in Pittsburgh's North Side in 1913, where they bought a three-story building at the corner of Corey Street and General Robinson Street. Dan operated a cafe and saloon out of the first floor with the family living above. The building was located just a block from Exposition Park, which had been home to the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball team until 1909.\n\nRooney attended St. Peter's Catholic School in Pittsburgh, Duquesne University Prep School, then several semesters at Indiana Normal School before completing a final year at Temple University on an athletic scholarship. After graduation, he dedicated himself to sports, winning the AAU welterweight belt in 1918 and tried out for the 1920 Olympic Team, he played minor league baseball for both the Flint, Michigan \"Vehicles\" and the Wheeling, West Virginia \"Stogies\". In 1925 he served as Wheeling's player-manager and led the Middle Atlantic League in games, hits, runs, stolen bases and finished 2nd in batting average as his brother Dan Rooney (Wheelings catcher that year) finished 3rd in BA. Art also played halfback for the semi-pro Pittsburgh \"Hope Harvey\" and \"Majestic Radio\" clubs which he later took over and renamed the J.P. Rooneys before purchasing an NFL franchise for $2,500 in 1933.\n\nRooney's affiliation with the National Football League (NFL) began in 1933 when he paid a $2,500 franchise fee to found a club based in the city of Pittsburgh. He had named his new team the \"Pirates\" which was also the name of the city's long-established Major League Baseball club of which Rooney was a fan since a childhood spent in the shadow of the team's stadium.\n\nSince the league's inception in 1920, the NFL had wanted a team in Pittsburgh due to the city's already-long history with football as well as the popularity of the Pittsburgh Panthers football team, an NCAA national championship contender during this period. The league was finally able to take advantage of Pennsylvania relaxing their blue laws that prior to 1933 prohibited sporting events from taking place on Sundays, when most NFL games take place.\n\nIn 1936, Rooney won a parlay at Saratoga Race Course, which netted him about $160,000. He used the winnings to hire a coach, Joe Bach, give contracts to his players and almost win a championship. The winnings funded the team until 1941 when he sold the franchise to NY playboy Alex Thompson. Thompson wanted to move the franchise to Boston so he could be within a five-hour train ride of his club. At the same time, the Philadelphia Eagles ran into financial problems. Rooney used the funds from the sale of franchise to get a 70% interest in the Eagles, the other 30% held by Rooney friend and future NFL commissioner, Bert Bell. Bell and Rooney agreed to trade places with Thompson. Bell took the role of President of the Steelers that he relinquished to Rooney in 1946 when Bell became Commissioner. Rooney got his good friend and his sister's father in law, Barney McGinley, to buy Bell's shares. Barney's son Jack, Art's brother in law, retained the McGinley interest that passed to his heirs when he died in 2006.\n\nRooney sent shock waves through the NFL by signing Byron \"Whizzer\" White to a record-breaking $15,000 contract in 1938. This move, however, did not bring the Pirates a winning season, and White left the team for the Detroit Lions the following year. The club did not have a season above .500 until 1942, the year after they were renamed the Pittsburgh Steelers.\n\nDuring World War II, the Steelers had some financial difficulties and were merged with the Philadelphia Eagles in 1943 and the Chicago Cardinals in 1944.\n\nAfter the war, Rooney became team president. He longed to bring an NFL title to Pittsburgh but was never able to beat the powerhouse teams, like the Cleveland Browns and Green Bay Packers. The Steelers also struggled with playing in a city and era where baseball was king and were treated as something of a joke compared to the Pirates. The team also made some questionable personnel calls at the time such as cutting a then-unknown Johnny Unitas in training camp (Unitas would go on to a Hall of Fame career with the Baltimore Colts) and trading their first round pick in the 1965 draft to the Chicago Bears (who would draft Dick Butkus with the pick), among others.\n\nNevertheless, Rooney was popular with owners as a mediator, which would carry over to his son Dan Rooney. He was the only owner to vote against moving the rights of the New York Yanks to Dallas, Texas after the 1951 season due to concerns of racism in the South at the time. (Ultimately, the Dallas Texans failed after one year, and the rights were moved to Baltimore, where the team became the Baltimore Colts. The team now plays in Indianapolis.) In 1963, along with Bears owner George Halas, Rooney was one of two owners to vote for the 1925 NFL Championship to be reinstated to the long-defunct Pottsville Maroons.\n\nAs a pillar of the community in many aspects, Rooney was asked to lend his considerable influence in the city's bid to reclaim a NHL franchise during the league's expansion in 1967. Although Pittsburgh enjoyed championship hockey with the professional but \"minor league\" Pittsburgh Hornets since its NHL franchise (the Pirates hockey team) disbanded in 1930 from the effects of the Great Depression, many city leaders were pushing for the region to become more \"major league\" suggesting that Mr. Rooney use his influence in the sports industry to have the league award Pittsburgh a franchise. Rooney proved his worth and from 1967 until the early 1970s was a part owner of the Pittsburgh Penguins.\n\nIn a 1981 interview by the \"Pittsburgh Press\" Rooney related that \"from time to time he had helped financially support the Negro League team, the Homestead Grays, and . . . was a better baseball fan than football fan.\"\n\nRooney also acquired the Yonkers Raceway in 1972, the Palm Beach Kennel Club, Green Mountain Kennel Club in Vermont, Shamrock Stables in Maryland and owned the Liberty Bell Park Racetrack outside Philadelphia.\n\nFollowing the AFL–NFL merger in 1970, the Steelers agreed to leave the NFL Eastern Conference and joined the AFC Central Division.\n\nThrough expert scouting, the Steelers became a power. In 1972, they began a remarkable 8–year run of playoff appearances, and thirteen straight years of winning seasons, including three additional playoff berths. In Rooney's 41st season as owner, the club won the Super Bowl. During Rooney's lifetime the team also had Super Bowl victories following the 1975, 1978 and 1979 seasons. They also won the Super Bowl in the 2005 and 2008 seasons, making the Steelers the first team following the AFL–NFL merger to win six Super Bowls.\n\nFollowing the Steelers' victory in Super Bowl IX, Rooney stepped down from day-to-day management of the team, but remained the ultimate source of authority until his death. Dan, his son, took over as team president. Rooney died from complications of a stroke on August 25, 1988. An August 1987 \"Pittsburgh Press\" story stated that Rooney never missed a Hall of Fame induction ceremony in all 25 years, and that he was asked to present his third inductee, John Henry Johnson that month. In memory of \"The Chief\", Steelers wore a patch on the left shoulder of their uniforms with Rooney's initials AJR for the entire season. The team ended up finishing 5-11, their worst record since a 1–13 showing in 1969. He is buried at the North Side Catholic Cemetery in Pittsburgh.\n\nIn 1964, he was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Duquesne University named their football field in his honor in 1993. In 1999 Rooney ranked 81st on the \"Sporting News\"' \"100 Most Powerful Sports Figures of the 20th Century\" list. A statue of his likeness graces the entrance to the home of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Heinz Field. The street that runs adjacent to Heinz Field on Pittsburgh's North Side is named \"Art Rooney Avenue\" in his honor. In 2000, he was inducted as a \"pioneer\" into the American Football Association's Semi-Pro Football Hall of Fame.\n\nDuring Rooney's life, the Steelers would often use a late-round draft pick on a player from a local college like Pitt, West Virginia or Penn State. Though these players rarely made the team, this practice was intended to appeal to local fans and players. The team has occasionally employed this practice after Rooney's death, however, they now focus more on talent than geography throughout the entire draft. Rooney also supposedly liked players from Notre Dame due to his Irish Catholic background, which some say explains why he allegedly had the team keep Notre Dame alumnus and wounded Vietnam veteran Rocky Bleier. Bleier would go on to become one of the key members of the team's success in the 1970s.\n\nArt Rooney is the subject of, and the only character in, the one-man play \"The Chief\", written by Gene Collier and Rob Zellers. The play debuted at the Pittsburgh Public Theater in 2003, and has been revived on three occasions since then. All productions have starred Tom Atkins as Rooney.\n\nAt Steelers games, there is a sign that shows a picture of Rooney with his characteristic cigar and under the photo, the word \"Believe.\"\n\nArt J. Rooney was for 51 years, until her 1982 death, married to Kathleen Rooney née McNulty (1904–1982). Kathleen was the mother of Art's five sons, who are Dan Rooney, the chairman of the board of directors of the Pittsburgh Steelers and a former United States Ambassador to Ireland, Art Rooney Jr., Timothy Rooney, Patrick Rooney, and John Rooney (all also directors of the Pittsburgh Steelers). She is also grandmother of the couple's 32 grandchildren, including current Steelers president Art Rooney II and U.S. Representative Thomas J. Rooney (R, FL-16). The couple also has about 75 great grandchildren, including actress sisters Kate Mara and Rooney Mara.\n\nGeneral\n\nSpecific\n\n"}
{"id": "13037670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13037670", "title": "Association of Booksellers for Children", "text": "Association of Booksellers for Children\n\nThe Association of Booksellers for Children (ABC) is an American non-profit trade association whose mission is to support the business of independent children's bookselling and the creation of quality children's books. \n\nThe membership of the organization is made up of independent children's booksellers, publishers, authors & illustrators, and other industry professionals. In addition to its advocacy work, the ABC undertakes a number of annual projects on its members' behalf, such a programming at the annual BookExpo America (BEA), the creation of various printed materials on literacy and best books, the dissemination of industry news, maintenance of a proprietary list-serv, an annual book award, The E.B. White Read Aloud Award, and collaborations with other industry trade groups like the Children's Book Council (CBC) and the American Booksellers Association (ABA).\n\n"}
{"id": "11051785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051785", "title": "Bashir Ahmad (politician)", "text": "Bashir Ahmad (politician)\n\nBashir Ahmad (12 February 1940 – 6 February 2009) was a successful businessman and a Scottish National Party politician. He made history when he was elected to the Scottish Parliament to represent the Glasgow region at the 2007 election, as the first MSP to be elected from Asian-Scots, Muslim and non-White backgrounds.\n\nAhmad was born in Amritsar, British India on 12 February 1940. In 1961, at the age of 21, he emigrated to Scotland from Pakistan. He served five terms as President of the Pakistan Welfare Association.\n\nAhmnad joined the SNP in 1992. In 1995, he founded Asian Scots for Independence to attract more Asian-Scots to the party. When Bashir launched Scots Asians for Independence at the SNP conference in 1995, he gave a speech saying \"it isn't important where you come from, what matters is where we are going together as a nation\"\n\nHe retired from business in 2003 to devote himself to politics. In Glasgow City Council election, 2003, he defeated Labour to become the Councillor for the Pollokshields East ward.\n\nUpon his selection as second on the SNP's Glasgow list, Ahmad said: \"The lack of any Asian or ethnic minority voice in the Scottish Parliament has been felt deeply in my community. But SNP members have righted that wrong. By doing so, they have proved that the SNP aspires to lead a Scottish Parliament that will represent all of Scotland – a truly national parliament. I firmly believe the SNP can now earn the trust of the Asian community throughout Scotland and that this will be a bond that endures for generations.\"\n\nDuring the 2007 elections, Ahmad was elected to the Scottish Parliament on the Glasgow regional list. He thus became the first non-white and first Muslim MSP. On the opening day of the 3rd Scottish Parliament, he wore traditional Pakistani clothing and took his oath of office using both the Urdu and English language.\n\nAhmad lead the bill on making forced marriages a criminal offence in Scotland and participated in a humanitarian campaign for Scottish hospitals to treat the most serious casualties of Israel's attacks on the Gaza Strip, particularly women and children with life-threatening burns or other wounds.\nHe was a member of the Scottish Parliament's Public Petitions Committee, which decides which action should be taken on petitions submitted by individuals, groups or organisations.\n\nAhmad died of a heart attack on 6 February 2009 at the age of 68. His funeral was held at the Glasgow Central Mosque and he was buried in Cathcart Cemetery.\n\nBashir is survived by his wife Naseem, their five daughters, two sons and 11 grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "9609578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9609578", "title": "Big Soda", "text": "Big Soda\n\nBig Soda is a term used by the media and various activist groups, including CrossFit to describe the soft drink industry as a collective entity.\n\nThe term connotes the business and lobbying power of soft drink companies who, like Big Oil and Big Tobacco, would use that power to influence politicians and voters.\n\nBig Soda usually refers to the giants of the soft drink industry, The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, and to a lesser extent, the Dr Pepper Snapple Group.\n"}
{"id": "44840661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44840661", "title": "Bilan (magazine)", "text": "Bilan (magazine)\n\nBilan is a French language biweekly business magazine published in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\n\"Bilan\" was first published in June 1989. The publisher of the magazine was Alain Fabarez. It was owned by the Edipresse Group until November 2011. Then it became part of the Tamedia Group. The magazine is published by Tamedia Publications biweekly on Wednesdays and has its headquarters in Geneva. It was published on a monthly basis until 2005 when its frequency was switched to biweekly. Its headquarters was formerly in Lausanne.\n\n\"Bilan\" is the French counterpart of the Swiss German business magazine, \"BILANZ\". \"Bilan\" features analyses of finance markets and targets managers of small or large enterprises and decision makers. It publishes several listings, including the 300 richest Switzerland, the 100 richest in Europe, the 300 most influential Switzerland, the 50 start-up invest in and the top 30 employers. The biweekly also publishes interviews.\n\nMax Mabillard is one of the former editors-in-chief of \"Bilan\". Stéphane Benoit-Godet served as the editor-in-chief until 1 November 2014 when Myret Zaki was appointed to the post.\n\nThe circulation of \"Bilan\" was 15,000 copies during its initial period. Between July 2004 and June 2005 the magazine had a circulation of 18,569 copies. It was 18,703 copies between July 2005 and June 2006 and 19,047 copies between July 2006 and June 2007. Its circulation became 19,325 copies between July 2007 and June 2008. In 2011 the magazine had a circulation of 13,111 copies. The circulation of the biweekly was 11,448 copies in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18245531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18245531", "title": "Business Today (student magazine)", "text": "Business Today (student magazine)\n\nBusiness Today is an American, non-profit student organization that seeks to bridge the communication gap between college students and business executives. The organization publishes a magazine and hosts three national conferences: the International Conference, the Her Ventures Conference and the Designation Conference.\n\n\"Business Today\" is headquartered in Princeton, New Jersey, and run by Princeton University undergraduates. The organization has 15 student officers who commit their time to running the logistics, programs and new strategic initiatives. Past Business Today alumni sit on the company's Board of Trustees to provide guidance.\n\n\"Business Today\" is an American magazine created by and for college students. It was founded in 1968 by three students at Princeton University—Jonathan Perel, Steve Forbes, and Michael Mims. Currently, \"Business Today\" is the largest student-run magazine in the United States. It is published twice a year, and has a distribution base of over 200,000 college students and business executives.\n\nFounded in 1974, the Business Today International Conference is the organization's largest and signature event. The conference brings 150 distinguished undergraduate students from around the world together with current business and world leaders to discuss and share perspectives on relevant business issues. Past keynote speakers at the conference have included Gerald Ford, Andrea Jung, and Henry Kissinger. \n\nIn 2017, the 43rd Annual International Conference attracted over 2000 applications and the conference itself focused on the theme of Redefining Innovation. Speakers included Brad Smith, President of Microsoft, \n\nIt is the largest conference of its kind in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2598331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2598331", "title": "Business consultant", "text": "Business consultant\n\nA consultant (from \"to discuss\") is a professional who provides professional or expert advice in a particular area such as security (electronic or physical), management, accountancy, law, human resources, marketing (and public relations), finance, engineering, science or any of many other specialized fields.\n\nA consultant is usually an expert or a professional in a specific field and has a wide knowledge of the subject matter. The role of consultant outside the medical sphere (where the term is used specifically for a grade of doctor) can fall under one of two general categories:\n\nThe overall impact of a consultant is that clients have access to deeper levels of expertise than would be feasible for them to retain in-house, and may purchase only as much service from the outside consultant as desired.\n\nConsultant Peter Block defines a consultant as \"someone who has influence over an individual, group, or organization, but who has no direct authority to implement changes.\" He contrasts this with a \"surrogate manager\" who is a person who \"acts on behalf of, or in place of, a manager.\" The key difference is that a consultant never makes decisions for the individual or group, whereas a surrogate manager does make decisions.\n\nAccredited Associates are bound by a Code of Ethics that requires the consultant to only provide “practical advice that works” — by “Analysing as a Generalist and Solving as a Specialist” — using the skills and experience of a sub-contracted fellow Associate, thus at all times providing the client with the best available advice and support.\n\nThere is no single qualification to be a consultant other than those laid down in relation to medical & engineering personnel who have attained this level-degree in it.\n\nInternationally the accreditation of Management Consultants is overseen by higher education training and accreditation organizations.\n\nThe International Council of Management Consulting Institutes (ICMCI) was founded in 1987 and has around 50 member institutes covering the globe. The award of Certified Management Consultant (CMC) status is its internationally recognized accreditation (in some countries like the US, conforms to ISO/IEC 17024:2003 standards) that is not specific to the technical content of the consultant's practice. For instance this could be held equally by a Human Resources (HR) expert or a chemical engineer operating as management consultants in their field(s) of expertise. There are about 10,000 CMCs worldwide.\n\nChartered Institute of Management Consultants (CIMC) is a not-for-profit professional body chartered federally under Letters Patent granted by the Government of Canada. CIMC is also chartered under the Laws of the State of Delaware, USA. CIMC is also registered with the National Certification Commission, USA. The CIMC award Chartered Management Consultant Ch.MC designation as a global management credential.\n\nInternational Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) is a Federation whose members are national associations of Consulting Engineers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6415398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6415398", "title": "Chrysler House", "text": "Chrysler House\n\nChrysler House is a 23-story, skyscraper located at 719 Griswold Street in Downtown Detroit, Michigan. The class-A office building is adjacent to the Penobscot Building in the heart of the U.S. designated Detroit Financial District. It is used as an office building, with retail space on the street level.\n\nThe building was constructed between 1910 and 1912 and known for many years as the Dime Building. When completed, the tower was named the Dime Savings Bank Building for its primary tenant. It was later renamed the Commonwealth Building, briefly known as Griswold Place. It became the Dime Building again in 2002, before being renamed in 2012.\n\nThe original Lincoln Highway Association national headquarters occupied office 2115 on the 21st floor from 1913 to 1928.\n\nFor several years through 1983, the building housed the headquarters of Bank of the Commonwealth until the bank merged with Comerica. In 2002, a $40-million renovation was completed.\n\nIn August 2011, Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert purchased the building along with the nearby Qube, First National Building and Wright-Kay Building.\n\nOn April 30, 2012, Gilbert and Chrysler Group LLC chairman Sergio Marchionne announced that Chrysler will move its Great Lakes Business Center and some executive offices, with approximately 70 employees, into the two top floors of the building. As part of the lease, the building was renamed for the company.\n\nThe tower was designed in the Neoclassical architectural style by Daniel Burnham. The steel-framed structure is faced with white glazed brick and terra cotta trim. The most distinctive feature is the central light court which begins on the third floor and creates a U-shaped floor plan on the upper office floors. This feature can be seen in an earlier version on Burnham's Miner's National Bank Building, now Citizens Bank financial Center, completed one year earlier in downtown Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Miner's National Bank is a similar, but smaller-scale design with the main banking hall in the space below the light court and featuring a large skylight. A later expansion of the building altered the U-shape of the upper floors.\n\nIn a subsequent renovation, the lower two floors were refaced with gray granite and a pediment above the central entrance and cornice were removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4144427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144427", "title": "Cook–Craigie plan", "text": "Cook–Craigie plan\n\nThe Cook–Craigie plan is an approach to the development process of civil and military aircraft that can dramatically reduce the time needed to bring a new design into service. In the late 1940s, USAF Major Generals Laurence C. Craigie, deputy chief of staff for development, and Orval R. Cook, deputy chief of staff for materiel, proposed that new designs should move directly into the production phase without the construction of prototypes. Since then, this approach has been used in an increasing number of aviation projects.\n\nTraditional aircraft design follows a time-honored formula. After the design drawings (or \"blueprints\") are prepared, a small series of prototype aircraft are constructed in order to test the concept. Data from the flight tests influences the revisions that are made to the design. If these changes are wide-ranging and/or significant, more prototypes will need to be built. Once the prototype cycle is complete, the development can enter the \"pre-production\" stage and further evaluation. Once this stage is completed satisfactorily, series production can begin.\n\nThe Cook–Craigie plan promoted the elimination of the entire prototype cycle and entering straight into the pre-production stage. If these examples flew as expected, production could start immediately. The plan required considerable confidence in the design from the outset; if the design had an inherent flaw, the jigs used during pre-production would have to be replaced. The plan seems inherently more risky than the traditional prototype cycle, but Cook and Craigie pointed out that for the advanced designs that were entering service in the late 1940s, any prototype was likely to be so different from the production variant that any data collected could be entirely misleading. Moreover, since several aircraft designs are typically ordered for competitive testing, the chance that all of the designs would fail is extremely low, and if even one design passes testing, it can immediately enter production.\n\nOne of the first designs to use the plan was the F-102 Delta Dagger. Although this design had a number of new features, it was based to a large degree on the earlier XF-92 prototype, and thus considered to be a fairly \"well understood\" design. This confidence proved to be misplaced, as the F-102 underwent a lengthy series of upgrades, and was eventually replaced in service by a redesigned version, the F-106 Delta Dart. Another example of the Cook–Craigie method is the development of the Avro CF-105 Arrow, which passed through the testing phase with few required changes.\n\nAs the potential of computer-aided design has increased since the 1950s, aircraft designs have generally performed much closer to their original goals. For example, the production specification of the Boeing 777 was within 20 lb of its predicted weight. Today the Cook–Craigie plan is so common that it no longer even has a name.\n"}
{"id": "4389913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4389913", "title": "David Arculus", "text": "David Arculus\n\nSir David Arculus (born 2 June 1946), is a British media figure, businessman and advisor to Government who has appeared several times in \"The Sunday Times\" Power 100, ranked at number 39 in 2005.\n\nEducated at Bromsgrove School (Wendron House) and Oriel College, University of Oxford and the London Business School, he started his career as a writer and was a producer for the BBC from 1968 to 1974. He joined EMAP in 1972, and took it from being a small regional newspaper publisher to a large media group. He was involved in launching many new magazines – for instance, \"Smash Hits\", a journal that printed words to pop songs, which went from an initial circulation of 10,000 to one million within a year, which provided the cash which helped Emap to subsequently become a leader in the world of business communications encompassing magazines, events, exhibitions and data products.\n\nAs a result of these successes Arculus worked his way up to Group Managing Director in 1989, leaving Emap in 1997. He subsequently became Chief Operating Officer of United News and Media and then became Chairman of IPC Media which at the time was Britain’s largest management buy-out. Arculus also headed Earls Court and Olympia Ltd and spent nearly ten years as a Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc.\n\nAway from the media sector, he was a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent plc from 1996, serving as Chairman from 1998 until 2004. Arculus held a range of further non-executive jobs of which perhaps the most noteworthy was with Barclays Bank plc from 1997 to 2006.\n\nHe joined the Board of O2 plc in 2003, and in 2006 as Chairman was responsible with the management team for the sale of O2 to Telefónica of Spain. At £18bn this was the largest cash deal ever done in Europe, and the second biggest in the world. Following the 2006 merger of O2 and Telefonica he sat on the Board of Telefonica. David has also served as a Director of Barclays and Pearson and of a variety of private equity backed companies and was Chairman of ExCeL Exhibition Centre\n\nDuring his career David has also undertaken a number of non-business roles including four years (2002 to 2006) as Tony Blair’s \"Red Tape Czar\" when he was Chairman of the British Government’s Better Regulation Task Force. During this time he helped bring about a number of regulatory initiatives intended to reduce burdens on business. These included improved impact assessments; the introduction of common commencement dates and the measurement of administrative burden in the UK economy which led to government imposing a 25% red tape reduction across all departments. He also led the effort during the UK Presidency to reduce EU bureaucratic burdens which resulted in the notable claim from MEPs that \"the European Parliament now has nothing to do\".\n\nArculus has also been a member of the National Consumer Council and chaired both the Royal Institution and the Advisory Council of The British Library as well as being a Trustee of various charitable organisations.\n\nAlongside his role as High Sheriff of Cambridgeshire 20162017, David is currently the Chairman of Energy UK. \n\n"}
{"id": "55929198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55929198", "title": "David Buchler", "text": "David Buchler\n\nDavid Julian Buchler (b. 31 December 1951 in London) is a British businessman, best known as a practitioner in the field of corporate recovery and restructuring. He is closely associated with Tottenham Hotspur F.C. and the English National Opera (ENO).\n\nEducated at Highgate School in London, David Buchler entered the accountancy profession in 1970 as an articled clerk (trainee Chartered Accountant) with Bernard Phillips & Co. When the firm merged with Arthur Andersen in 1979, Buchler transferred as a Partner and continued to build his reputation as an insolvency practitioner. In 1988 he launched Buchler Phillips with his longtime business partner Peter Phillips, undertaking several high profile corporate recovery assignments, including the receivership of Robert Maxwell's private estate. Buchler Phillips was acquired in 1999 by global consulting firm Kroll Inc., after which David Buchler became the new parent's Chairman for Europe and Africa until 2003. During that year he served as President of R3, the Association of Business Recovery Professionals.\n\nIn April 2008 it was reported that David Buchler was leading a private equity backed approach to buy Kroll from its then parent, Marsh & McLennan. In December 2008 David Buchler entered the bid process to acquire stricken high street retailer Woolworths. Forming his independent business, DB Consultants, in 2005, David Buchler spent the 10 years that followed focusing on a diverse portfolio of complex restructuring and turnaround assignments with both publicly listed and private companies, often working as Chairman. The most notable of these were leading the fraud investigation at Langbar International, chairing sports management group CSS Stellar, and restructuring former e-security group Baltimore Technologies. \n\nIn 2009, Buchler launched a turnaround focused private equity business, Merchant Asset Partners, to raise £500m for a one-time only fund to invest in UK distressed deals. David Buchler has been Chairman of Chinese investment group London Asia Capital since 2011 and of growth capital investor Volvere plc since 2013. In January 2017 he was appointed Chairman of Puma VCT 13 PLC. Buchler Phillips was relaunched in 2015, focusing on financial restructuring, operational turnaround and corporate recovery.\n\nDavid Buchler has been involved in football club restructuring since 1992, when Buchler Phillips was appointed administrator to Harrow and Wealdstone FC. During the 1990s he advised Luton Town F.C., Millwall F.C., Oxford United F.C., Swindon Town F.C. and Barnet F.C., before joining the board of Tottenham Hotspur F.C., where he was Vice Chairman from 2001 to 2006. In 2002, David Buchler's eldest daughter, Sara, married Darren Dein, son of David Dein the then Vice Chairman of North London football rivals Arsenal F.C.\n\nA lifelong opera fan, David Buchler joined the board of the then financially troubled English National Opera in October 2006. Within months he became Deputy Chairman, a position he held for 10 years. He is presently ENO's Chairman of Directors Emeriti. In June 2017 David Buchler launched a website to chronicle his personal reviews of performances all over the world.\n"}
{"id": "12090296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12090296", "title": "Detroit International Riverfront", "text": "Detroit International Riverfront\n\nThe Detroit International Riverfront is a tourist attraction and landmark of Detroit, Michigan extending from the Ambassador Bridge in the west to Belle Isle in the east, for a total of 5.5 miles (8.8 kilometers). The International Riverfront encompasses a cruise ship passenger terminal and dock, a marina, a multitude of parks, restaurants, retail shops, skyscrapers, and high rise residential areas along with Cobo Center. The Marriott at the Renaissance Center and the Robert's Riverwalk Hotel are also situated along the International Riverfront. Private companies and foundations together with the city, state, and federal government have contributed several hundred million dollars toward the riverfront development. Key public spaces in the International Riverfront, such as the RiverWalk, Dequindre Cut Greenway and Trail, William G. Milliken State Park and Harbor, and a cruise ship passenger terminal and dock at Hart Plaza complement the architecture of the area. The area provides a venue for a variety of annual events and festivals including the Detroit Electronic Music Festival, Detroit Free Press International Marathon, the Detroit International Jazz Festival, Motor City Pride, the North American International Auto Show, and River Days.\n\nThe Detroit Riverfront Conservancy, incorporated as a 501(c)(3) organization, helped raise funds for the International Riverfront project. Developers planned the initial east riverfront promenade investment at $559 million, which included contributions of $135 million from GM and $50 million from the Kresge foundation.\n\nThe area contains the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge which is the only international wildlife preserve in North America, uniquely located in the heart of a major metropolitan area. The Refuge includes islands, coastal wetlands, marshes, shoals, and waterfront lands along of the Detroit River and Western Lake Erie shoreline.\n\nBelle Isle Park is a island state park in the Detroit River managed by the State of Michigan. Until November 12, 2013, it was a city-operated park operated by the City of Detroit Recreation Department. It connects to the city by the MacArthur Bridge. It is home to the Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory (1904), the oldest conservatory in the United States, the Detroit Yacht Club, the Detroit Boat Club, the Dossin Great Lakes Museum, a Coast Guard post, and a municipal golf course. The park contains a Nature Center where visitors are able to traverse wooded trails and view wildlife natural habitats. The island includes a half-mile (800 m) swimming beach.\n\nChene Park is located on the near east side of Detroit, at the foot of Chene Street, along the banks of the Detroit River. Located just east of Tri-Centennial State Park and Harbor, it contains a 6,000-seat amphitheater where concerts are regularly scheduled every summer. Jazz, Classic Soul and Rhythm and Blues acts are the staples of the season. The park also includes park trails, the Chene Park Fountain, and the Lake Lounge bar.\nThe Detroit Riverfront Conservancy has connected the park to the Renaissance Center along a riverside promenade.\n\nThe park is named for Charles Chene, a French immigrant who owned a strip of land along the shores of the Detroit River that extended into what is now just east of downtown. On September 4, 2018, Detroit City Council unanimously voted to rename Chene Park the Aretha Louise Franklin Amphitheater after the famous singer who passed away on August 16, 2018. The change will take place before the 2019 season.\n\nDequindre Cut Greenway is a non-motorized trail extending from the Detroit River northward, with the future potential to connect to the Ferndale-Birmingham greenway in Oakland County. The mile (1.6 km) long trail primarily connects the Lafayette Park neighborhood and Eastern Market to the Riverwalk. The greenway utilizes half of the corridor, with a wide paved path with separate lanes for biking and walking.\n\nConstruction of phase I of the Dequindre Cut Greenway, extending from the River one mile (1.6 km) north to Gratiot Avenue, is complete. Funded by MDOT’s Transportation Enhancement Program and the Community Foundation of Southeast Michigan, this portion of the greenway sets the template for future phases and includes a bituminous path; access ramps for bicyclists, pedestrians and emergency vehicles; landscaping; lighting; signage and security cameras. The first phase of the trail officially opened May 14, 2009 with an opening ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Woodbridge Street entrance of the greenway between Orleans Street and St. Aubin Street.\n\nThe Dequindre Cut Greenway phase II North project begins at the northern terminus of the phase I at Gratiot Avenue and continues for over one-half mile to Mack Avenue. The strategic plan for phase II provides a design approach and project budget that builds on the lessons learned in phase I construction.\n\nThe Dequindre Cut is noted for the high quality graffiti covering the walls of the corridor. The Riverfront Conservancy which operates the greenway will permit current and future painted art work to remain as long as it is not deemed offensive. The trail is one of the city's few public art parks and is a major attraction for urban photographers.\n\nThe Renaissance Center, nicknamed the RenCen, is a group of seven interconnected skyscrapers in Detroit, Michigan, and the tallest building in Michigan since 1977. Located on the Detroit International Riverfront, the entire Renaissance Center complex is owned by General Motors. The central tower is occupied by the Detroit Marriott at the Renaissance Center, the tallest all-hotel skyscraper in the Western Hemisphere with the largest rooftop restaurant, called Coach Insignia. The complex contains many restaurants, a variety of shops, and the vehicle display known as GM World. GM donated its portion of the plaza and promenade to the Riverfront Conservancy upon completion. A cruise-ship passenger terminal stands on Hart Plaza, adjacent to the Renaissance Center.\nIn 2003, General Motors completed a $500 million renovation of the Renaissance Center for its world headquarters which it had purchased in 1996. Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, Gensler, the Smith Group, and Ghafari Associates were among the architects for the renovation. The majority of the construction operations were led by Turner Construction Company. The renovation included the addition of a five-story Wintergarden which provides access to the Detroit International Riverfront.\n\nWork continued in and around the complex until 2005. The Renaissance Center totals 5.5 million square feet (511,000 m²), making it one of the world's largest office complexes.\n\nPhilip A. Hart Plaza in downtown Detroit, is a city plaza along the Detroit River. It is located more or less on the site at which Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac landed in 1701 when he founded \"Fort Pontchartrain du Détroit\", the settlement that became Detroit. In 2011, the Detroit-Wayne County Port Authority opened its new cruise ship passenger terminal and dock at Hart Plaza, adjacent to the Renaissance Center, which receives major cruise ships such as the MS Columbus and the Yorktown.\n\nThe plaza, which is named for the late U.S. Senator Philip Hart, opened in 1975 and has a capacity for about 40,000 people. At the center of the plaza is the Horace E. Dodge and Son Memorial Fountain, designed by Isamu Noguchi and Walter Budd in 1978.\n\nThe historic Stroh River Place complex is a mixed-use residential development adjacent to the Roberts Riverwalk Hotel and Residence, the redeveloped site of the Parke-Davis research laboratory, a National Historic Landmark located along the east riverfront promenade. The historic Dry Dock Complex is an additional redeveloped site along the east riverfront which includes residential units and retail.\n\nThe Detroit International Riverfront includes a 5½-mile (8.8 km) promenade called the River Walk which is to extend from the Ambassador Bridge to Belle Isle. The path is located directly on the river, sometimes bridging it. The path is 62 feet (18¾ m) wide in most places, with separate lanes for pedestrian and wheeled (such as bicycles or inline skate) traffic. Pavilions, fishing piers and benches are located at intervals along the path.\n\nThe east riverfront promenade connects an area known as Rivertown. It extends along the east riverfront area from the Cobo Center convention and exhibit facility to the Belle Isle State Park bridge and includes the Renaissance Center, GM Plaza and Promenade, William G. Milliken State Park and Harbor, Stroh River Place, Chene Park, Mt Elliott Park and Gabriel Richard Park. The river walk is designed to supplement new retail and residential development, and includes the newly renovated historic Alden Park Towers. Architect Eric J. Hill aided in its design.\n\nThe first of continuous riverfront promenade and two of the four planned pavilions opened to the public on June 6, 2007. Rivard Plaza located at the foot of Rivard Street features a covered seating, a carousel, concessions and bike rentals. Richard Plaza located in Gabriel Richard Park features covered seating, concessions and a butterfly garden. The River Walk is continuous from Joe Louis Arena to Milliken State Park with unfinished sections between the state park and River Place. From River Place the River Walk is then continuous through Mt Elliott Park to the former site of the Uniroyal Tire factory west of Belle Isle. The west riverfront promenade development is not expected to be completed before 2012. The west riverfront includes the high-rise Riverfront Towers. The west riverfront promenade will eventually connect to River Rouge in the southwest side.\n\nWilliam G. Milliken State Park and Harbor (formerly \"Tri-Centennial State Park and Harbor\") is a state park in Michigan, and one of only two state parks located within an urban area. The park consist of the former city-owned St. Aubin Park and Marina. Located just east of downtown Detroit in the Near-East Riverfront, it covers on the Detroit River, and includes a 52-slip harbor of refuge. A conical brick light tower marks the harbor entrance. The park's first phase opened in 2003, included refurbishing of the marina and construction of lighthouse. Construction on the second phase, adjacent to Rivard Plaza, to expand the park started in summer 2008 and was completed in summer 2009. In fall 2009, the state park was renamed in honor of former Michigan Governor William G. Milliken.\n\nDetroit River Days, a five-day festival on the International Riverfront, marked the 2007 opening of the riverfront promenade along the east river leading up to the Detroit-Windsor International Freedom Festival fireworks. Detroit and Windsor jointly celebrate the multi-day festival the last week of June which draws about 3.5 million visitors during the week in order to commemorate each country's respective National holiday - (US Independence Day on July 4 and Canada Day on July 1). The festival began in 1959. It is organized by the Parade Company, a well sponsored not-for-profit organization governed by the Michigan Thanksgiving Parade Foundation.\n\nTraditionally, several days of events were planned, ending with one of the world's largest fireworks displays, sponsored by Target. In prior years, the fireworks display has been billed as the world's largest. On the Windsor side, there is a midway consisting of carnival rides and concessions during the festival. The Midway operates as stand-alone attraction at the end of June, beginning of July.\n\nThe Detroit Electronic Music Festival (DEMF) is an electronic dance music showcase held in Hart Plaza each Memorial Day weekend since 2000. In subsequent years, the similarly themed festivals Movement (2003–2004), Fuse-In (2005) and currently, Movement: Detroit's Electronic Music Festival (2006–present) continue the DEMF's traditions, with each name change reflecting shifts in festival management. All of these festivals featured performances by musicians and DJs, and emphasized the progressive qualities of the culture surrounding electronic music.\n\nThe International Riverfront is host to part of the Detroit International Jazz Festival held in Hart Plaza each Labor Day weekend. Hart Plaza is also the traditional location of rallies to celebrate championships won by Detroit's major sports teams. Both Detroit and Windsor have hosted the Red Bull Air Race World Championship on the International Riverfront.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1660841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660841", "title": "Distribution software", "text": "Distribution software\n\nDistribution software refers to software which manages everything from order processing and inventory control to accounting, purchasing and customer service, supply chain management, sales, customer relationship management, and finance management.\n\nMore sophisticated solutions can cover areas such as advanced forecasting and replenishment, warehouse management, pick, pack & shipping, EDI or Electronic Data Interchange, Trade Spend Management and more.\n\nDistribution software helps companies to manage internal and external resources efficiently by minimizing stockouts but ensuring overstocking doesn't occur as well.\n\nNumerous ERP vendors such as Acumatica, Microsoft Dynamics NAV-X, Netsuite, Infor Distribution, and SAP ERP offer distribution software as part of their ERP systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "2390801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390801", "title": "Enrolled agent", "text": "Enrolled agent\n\nEnrolled agent (or EA) is a tax advisor who is a federally authorized tax practitioner empowered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Enrolled agents represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for tax issues including audits, collections and appeals.\n\nEnrolled agent status is the highest credential awarded by the IRS. The EA credential is recognized across all 50 U.S. states. Attorneys and certified public accountants (CPAs) are licensed on a state by state basis, and are also empowered by the Department of the Treasury to represent taxpayers before the IRS. According to the National Association of Enrolled Agents, there are approximately 53,000 practicing EAs in the United States.\n\nThe position of enrolled agent was created as a reaction to fraudulent war loss claims in the wake of the American Civil War with roots tracing back to the General Deficiency Act of July 7, 1884, or General Deficiency Appropriation Bill (H.R. 2735), also known as the \"Horse Act of 1884\", which was signed into law by President Chester A. Arthur on July 7, 1884. After the Civil War, many citizens faced difficulties in settling claims with the government for property confiscated for use in the war effort. As a result, Congress endowed enrolled agents with the power of advocacy to prepare claims against the government. From 1884 through the early 20th century, this statute remained largely unchanged.\n\nWhen the Revenue Act of 1913 was passed, signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson on October 3, 1913, the scope of the enrolled agent was expanded to include claims for monetary relief for citizens whose taxes had become inequitable. As income, estate, gift and other sources of tax collections became more complex, the role of the enrolled agent increased to include the preparation of the many tax forms that were required. As a result of this complexity, audits became more prevalent and the enrolled agent role evolved into taxpayer representation, promulgating a series of statutes which were combined into a single Treasury Department Circular in February 19, 1921, known as Circular 230, to address \"the laws and regulations governing the recognition of agents, attorneys, and other persons representing claimants before the Treasury Department and offices thereof.\"\n\nTo become an enrolled agent, an applicant must obtain a PTIN and achieve passing scores on all three parts of the Special Enrollment Examination, which covers many aspects of the Internal Revenue Code, or must have worked at the IRS for five consecutive years in a position which regularly engaged in applying and interpreting the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations relating to income, estate, gift, employment, or excise taxes. A background check, including a review of the applicant’s personal and business tax compliance, is conducted after an applicant files Form 23, \"Application for Enrollment to Practice Before the Internal Revenue Service\", within one year of completing all three parts of the examination.\n\nTo qualify for renewal as an enrolled agent, an individual must complete 72 hours of continuing professional education (CPE) every three years, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct in each of the three years. To prevent overloading of CPEs in any year of an enrollment cycle, the IRS requires a minimum of 16 hours of CPE every year. \n\nIndividuals must renew their PTIN between October 16 and December 31 of each year.\n\nIndividuals must file Form 8554, \"Application for Renewal of Enrollment to Practice Before the Internal Revenue Service\", within the applicable renewal period.\n\nRenewal periods are based on the last digit of an enrolled agent's Social Security number (SSN) or tax identification number:\nIndividuals admitted to practice at any time during an enrollment cycle, \"the three successive enrollment years preceding the effective date of renewal,\" must complete two hours of continuing professional education for each month of enrollment, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct in each year. If an individual receives initial enrollment between November 1 and April 1 of their applicable renewal period, they will not be required to renew until the expiration of the first full three-year enrollment cycle following their initial enrollment.\n\nAn individual who has not filed a timely application for renewal, who has not made a timely response to the notice of noncompliance, or who has not satisfied the requirements of eligibility for renewal, will be placed on a roster of inactive enrolled individuals. During this time, the individual will be ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service and may not state or imply that they are eligible to represent taxpayers, use the term enrolled agent, or use the EA designation.\n\nThe right to practice before the Internal Revenue Service is regulated by Federal statute, and persons authorized to practice are known as \"Federally Authorized Tax Practitioners\", or \"FATPs\". The FATP status is granted to attorneys, certified public accountants, and enrolled agents, each having unlimited representation rights before the Internal Revenue Service. These practitioners may represent their clients on any matters including audits, collection actions, payment issues, tax refund matters, and appeals. FATP status is also granted with limited representation rights to enrolled actuaries, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers.\n\nEnrolled agents, like other FATPs, are subject to a set of procedures and regulations described in Treasury Department Circular No. 230,\" Regulations Governing the Practice of Attorneys, Certified Public Accountants, Enrolled Agents, Enrolled Actuaries, and Appraisers before the Internal Revenue Service\".\n\nWhen practicing before the Internal Revenue Service, enrolled agents may not use the term \"certified\" in describing their professional designation. An enrolled agent admitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service may not state or imply that an employer/employee relationship exists between the enrolled agent and the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nEnrolled agent status does not authorize the enrollee to practice before the United States Tax Court or in any other court.\n\nPractice in U.S. Tax Court is limited to members of the Bar of the Court. The Internal Revenue Code states, \"No qualified person shall be denied admission to practice before the Tax Court because of his failure to be a member of any profession or calling.\" Non-attorneys must pass a Tax Court exam for admission to the Bar of the Court. Attorneys are admitted to the Bar of the Tax Court without having to take the Tax Court examination. Practice in other federal courts is generally limited to persons licensed as attorneys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35465575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35465575", "title": "Geoffrey Arone", "text": "Geoffrey Arone\n\nGeoffrey Arone is an American blockchain investor and advisor.\n\nArone is currently a partner at Arrington XRP Capital, a hedge fund focused on crypto assets and blockchain tech. He also advises Bloom Protocol, a company reinventing the credit industry with decentralized scoring powered by Ethereum and IPFS. Previously, he was Chief Product Officer at Whitepages. Prior to that, he was Chief Scientist of Experian, which acquired SafetyWeb in May 2011. Arone co-founded SafetyWeb in June 2009 and raised ~ $8 million from Battery Ventures and First Round Capital. SafetyWeb is a cloud-based personal security company whose products include SafetyWeb Family and myID.\n\nPrior to SafetyWeb, Arone was the CEO and co-founder of DanceJam with MC Hammer and Flock co-founder Anthony Young. While running DanceJam, Arone raised two rounds of venture capital and sold the company to Grind Networks in 2009.\n\nIn late 2004, Arone co-founded Flock, the first web browser with social network integration, with Bart Decrem and Anthony Young. In all, Flock raised ~ $28 million from Bessemer Venture Partners, Shasta Ventures, and Fidelity Ventures. Nearly 6 years and 14 million downloads later, Flock was acquired by Zynga.\n\nArone has also held product positions at RealNetworks, Informatica and Oracle. He holds a Sc.B. in Neural Science from Brown University and his PhD work was also in Neural Science. He earned an MBA from the MIT Sloan School of Management.\n"}
{"id": "57057008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57057008", "title": "Hans and Fritz Schlumpf", "text": "Hans and Fritz Schlumpf\n\nThe brothers Giovanni \"Hans\" Schlumpf (b. in Omegna, Italy, February, 1904; died 1989) and Federico \"Fritz\" Schlumpf (Omegna, Italy, February, 1906; April 18, 1992) were Swiss textile industrialists and collectors of automobiles. They are best known for the Schlumpf Collection housed at the Musée National de l'Automobile de Mulhouse.\n\nThey were sons of the textile industrialist Carl Schlumpf and his wife Jeanne Becker. The Schlumpf family moved to Mulhouse, France (then in Germany) in 1908. Hans and Fritz Schlumpf lived in Mulhouse at their country house, Malmerspach, until they escaped and became Swiss exiles in 1977.\n\nAfter World War II Fritz and Hans Schlumpf gathered an enormous collection of classic automobiles, including several hundred Bugattis (many of them in pieces or unrestored, but many were also completed cars). To fund this hobby they encumbered their enterprise to such an extent that by 1977 it became insolvent. Until this time the automobile collection was unknown to the public, but the excesses were revealed in 1977 during a strike by the former Schlumpf textile workers.\n\nHans:\n\nFritz:\n"}
{"id": "18919536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919536", "title": "Hsieh Yung-kuan", "text": "Hsieh Yung-kuan\n\nCheah Meng Chi （謝夢池）or Cheah Choon Seng or Tjia Tjoen Sen（謝春生） or Hsie Yung Kuang （謝榮光）, a Hakka from Meixian, Guangdong, China, was Chinese Vice Consul in Penang from 1895–1903 and from 1906-1907. He was a founding director of the Deli Bank in Medan, Indonesia. Born in 1848 in Pontianak, Dutch East Indies. He was a contractor of provisions and foodstuffs to the Dutch Government for eight years before moving to Kota Raja or Banda Acheh on the east coast of Sumatra where, in addition to those existing contracts he obtained fresh contracts for the construction of railroads and for opium and other revenue farms. He was appointed Lieutenant China, which he held for twenty-one years after which he was made Captain China. The Dutch Government conferred on him the Gold Star for \"Trouw en Verdienste\" and with a gold medal for outstanding contributions to them. Around 1898 he relinquished management of his business interests there, handing them over to the management of his attorney, Mr. Leong Mok On, and moved to Penang where he lived at No. 8, Leith Street. He was appointed Chinese Vice-Consul to Penang, a position that was taken up by his son-in-law, Mr. Leong Fee, upon his resignation. He had interests in the Tambun mines in Perak and the Bentong mines near Kuala Lumpur. He was a member of the Penang Chinese Town Hall committee. He married the daughter of the Mayor of Pontianak, Mr. Chong Hi. Together with Cheong Fatt Tze (Tjong Tjen Hsoen), Leong Fee（梁輝, Zhang Yao Xuan（張耀軒, and Foo Choo Choon（胡子春）, he founded the Chung Hua School（中華學校 or 中華學堂, the first modern Chinese school in Malaya teaching in Mandarin. Cheah Choon Seng died on 4 February 1916.\n\n"}
{"id": "57881383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57881383", "title": "Ignasi Puig Claret", "text": "Ignasi Puig Claret\n\nIgnasi Puig Claret (Manresa, Barcelona, April 8, 1962) is an advertising entrepreneur, founding partner of SCPF agency (part of the WPP holding company) and CEO of SCPF America.\n\nIn 1985 he began his professional career in the advertising world at Delvico Bates agency, where he worked until 1987. In 1989 he was appointed General Director of the advertising agency Backer Spielvogel Bates (Barcelona office) until 1992, when Delvico and BSB agencies merged; Puig was named General Manager of the new company.\n\nIn January 1996 he created in Barcelona, along with three partners from Delvico Bates, the advertising agency SCPF, whose name is made up of the initials of its four partners: Toni Segarra, Luis Cuesta, Puig and Felix Fernández de Castro; Puig becomes Counselor. In 1998 SCPF opened an office in Madrid and won contests to develop IKEA, BMW, Vodafone and ING campaigns, among others.\n\nIn the year 2000 WPP buys 30% of the shares of SCPF, and both agencies are part of a direct marketing company, \"Mr. John Sample\", with Puig Claret as part of the management team.\n\nIn 2005 WPP completes the acquisition of SCPF; as a result of the sale, Ignasi Puig starts in Miami \"SCPF América\", with Subway and HSBC among its first clients, and subsequently Procter & Gamble, Unilever, Coca Cola, Banco Santander, Banco Sabadell, Mazda, Johnson & Johnson, Revlon, among others. Also NGOs such as Partnership for a Drug Free America, Red Cross and Medicos sin Fronteras, among others. The company opened offices in New York, Mexico City, Buenos Aires and Bogotá.\n\nWith SCPF, Puig Claret won awards at the International Festival of Cannes and the Festival Iberoamericano de la Comunicacion Publicitaria, IAB Awards and Effie Awards. In 2009 the agency was recognized with the Coca-Cola Creative Excellence Award in Atlanta.\n\n"}
{"id": "43301332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43301332", "title": "Industry Social Service of the State of Rio de Janeiro", "text": "Industry Social Service of the State of Rio de Janeiro\n\nThe Industry Social Service of the State of Rio de Janeiro comprehends SESI's work in Rio de Janeiro state. The institution focuses in bettering work environment, quality of life and education level of collaborators from Rio de Janeiro's enterprises. Through programs and mobile units, it carries out actions related to health, education, sports, leisure, culture, occupational health, work safety and environmental protection. These activities are aimed at workers and companies, as much as to society in general. SENAI Rio's history is parallel to the Brazilian industrial development and its designation accompanies Rio de Janeiro's changes, as when it became a capital and was renamed Guanabara state.\n\nSESI Rio's programs and unities are meant for industry workers, their families and Rio de Janeiro´s population as a whole. In companies, the institution focuses attention on the socially responsible management aiming Brazilian's competitive advantage and sustainable development. Besides the quality of life of workers. In a general way, SESI Rio works in four big fields:\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to its social function, SESI Rio focuses on two specific pillars in the state: education and health.\n\nSome of the entity's programs are:\n\nThe mobile units are trailers and vans with office structure to take up to companies health care for employees. Units can be dental, occupational health and x-ray.\n\nUntil the early 1940s, Brazil was an agricultural, rural and dependent on imported manufactured goods economy. Gradually the industrial sector was being equipped, but it was still difficult to meet all the needs of the worker. Further during the Second World War. Then, in 1946 (post-war), the private sector exercised its social function and created SESI. It was industry legitimizing social service. On the same date, its National Department formed the Regional Division of Rio de Janeiro. It was \"the beginning of Brazilian industrialization and a new cycle of development that sought to guarantee the country a place in the new international environment.\"\n\nBetween the 50s and the 70s the economy has changed, with the goal of building an industrialized and competitive society. In 1953, Rio de Janeiro's Regional Division becomes the Federal District's Regional Department, with jurisdiction on the federal capital. But when the Federal District is transferred to Brasília and Guanabara State is created, in 1960, it receives the name of Guanabara State's Regional Department. It turns out that, in 1974, then-President Ernesto Geisel decided to merge the states of Guanabara and Rio de Janeiro (preserving the name of the latter), returning to Rio its \"status\" of the state capital. It is precisely in this time of transition, between 1974 and 1979, that it is created the Regional Department of the State of Rio de Janeiro, current SESI Rio.\n\nDuring the 80s, dubbed \"the lost decade\" by economists, SESI Rio \"increased in 328% the number of its services in the areas of Food, Entertainment, Health, Education, Service and Community Actions, ie, from 4.2 million to 18 million people.\"\n\nIn the 90s, the policy of expanding through the interior has been strengthened with the installation of units in approximately 10 municipalities.\n\nIn the 2000s the focus has changed to:\n\nIn recent years, SESI Rio has sought to strengthen its programs for the welfare and quality of life of the citizens of Rio de Janeiro state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7072487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7072487", "title": "James Burns (shipowner)", "text": "James Burns (shipowner)\n\nSir James Burns KCMG (10 February 184622 August 1923) was a noted businessman, shipowner and philanthropist in Australia. In particular, he is known as the co-founder of Burns Philp and Company, a shipping and trading company, and for establishing the Burnside Presbyterian Homes for Children in North Parramatta (now known as UnitingCare Burnside), a children and family welfare organisation.\n\nBurns was born at Polmont, Stirlingshire, Scotland, the son of a merchant, David Burns, and educated at Newington Academy and the Royal High School in Edinburgh. He migrated to Queensland in 1862 and worked for three years in Western Queensland as a jackaroo. In 1865 he formed a Brisbane store, Burns & Scott, in partnership with his brother, and established the first stores in Gympie and nearby One Mile Creek and Kilkivan in 1867, when gold was found there. He sold his interests and returned to Scotland in 1870 after the death of his father. He briefly visited France as an observer and assistant in relief efforts after the Paris Commune of 1871 before returning to Queensland.\n\nIn 1871, Burns returned to North Queensland to establish a new trading company in Townsville. He later loaned Robert Philp enough money to become a partner in the enterprise. The company thrived through ownership of sail and steam powered trading ships, initially leased to ensure a steady supply of goods between Queensland and Sydney. This formed the basis of the Queensland Steam Shipping Company Limited, later amalgamated into Burns Philp and Company, which remains as a major trading company today. The shipping expanded into various ports in the East Indies and the Pacific Islands, and the company branched into various trading endeavours throughout the following decades.\nIn addition to establishing Burns Philp and Company, his business interests include serving as chairman of the (North) Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd in 1886–1923, the New South Wales Mortgage, Land, and Agency Co. and the Solomon Islands Development Co. Ltd. He was also a director of the Australian Mutual Provident Society, the Sydney Exchange Co., the Bank of North Queensland, and various collieries, as well as owning extensive Queensland pastoral properties.\n\nBurns served on a royal commission of inquiry into railway administration in 1906 and was appointed to the Legislative Council of New South Wales in 1908. \nHe joined the Parramatta troop of the 1st Light Horse Regiment (New South Wales Lancers) as a trooper in June 1891 and was immediately promoted Captain, and became Major in January 1896. From September 1897 to June 1903 he commanded the regiment as its Lieutenant-Colonel. He was promoted to Colonel in July 1903 and commanded the 1st Australian Light Horse Brigade until January 1907, when he retired.\n\nBurns was president of the Caledonian Society for twenty years. During World War I Burns helped establish a scheme for insuring enlisted men with dependants, personally contributing £2000 a year during the duration of the war.\n\nFrom the 1880s, Burns was based at a property known as Gowan Brae, North of Parramatta. He retired from government and business activities due to ill health in 1908, and lived at Gowan Brae from that time on. Shortly afterwards, he approached the Presbyterian Church of Australia, suggesting that they establish a Presbyterian home for children. In 1910 he endowed some of the Gowan Brae property, to establish the Presbyterian Homes for Children (later renamed Burnside and currently known as UnitingCare Burnside) and was chairman of its board for ten years. It became his passion in his \"retired\" years, as he made numerous contributions towards new homes and the children. His business and government connections ensured that donations from other sources were also forthcoming, with houses named after sponsors and officially opened by dignitaries.\nBurns continued to live at Gowan Brae until his death and was buried there in a family cemetery. He left the property to his son, James, but suggested that, should James not need the property, it should be given to the (then) Burnside Presbyterian Orphans Homes. James honoured this request, and the property was donated.\nMuch of the land has since been sold or leased to other organisations, or as residential developments. The property immediately around Gowan Brae is now owned by The Kings School, while sections of the property are now owned by the Redeemer Baptist School and Tara Anglican School for Girls, with some still owned by the Synod of New South Wales and the ACT of the Uniting Church in Australia for Burnside's own operations and the synod's activities such as the archives, Camden Library and the Uniting Theological College.\n"}
{"id": "2271401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2271401", "title": "John Bartholomew", "text": "John Bartholomew\n\nJohn Bartholomew Junior (25 December 1831 – 29 March 1893) was a Scottish cartographer.\n\nHe was born in Edinburgh.\n\nHis father John Bartholomew Senior started a cartographical establishment in Edinburgh,Scotland and he was educated in the work. He was subsequently assistant to the German geographer August Petermann, until in 1856 he took up the management of his father's firm. For this establishment, now known as the Edinburgh Geographical Institute, Bartholomew built up a reputation unsurpassed in Great Britain for the production of the finest cartographical work. \nBartholomew was an in-house cartographer for George Philip.\nBartholomew is best known for the development of colour contouring (or hypsometric tints), the system of representing altitudes on a graduated colour scale, with areas of high altitude in shades of brown and areas of low altitude in shades of green. He first showcased his colour contouring system at the Paris Exhibition of 1878; although it initially met with skepticism, it went on to become standard cartographical practice.\n\nAmong his numerous publications, particularly worthy of note is the series of maps of Great Britain reduced from the Ordnance Survey to scales of ½ inch and ¾ inch to 1 mile, with relief shown by contour lines and hypsometric tints. The ½ inch series is among the finest of its kind ever produced. \n\nUpon his retirement in 1888, John Bartholomew was succeeded in the firm by his son John George, who extended the ½ inch series, and applied its principles to many other works. Bartholomew died in London on 29 March 1893.\n\nHe is buried with his mother and father in Grange Cemetery in Edinburgh in the northwest section. His wife Annie MCGregor (1836-1872), whom he greatly outlived, is also buried there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44893460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44893460", "title": "José Roberto Marinho", "text": "José Roberto Marinho\n\nJosé Roberto Marinho (26 December 1955) is a Brazilian businessman and one of the three sons of the late communications tycoon Roberto Marinho (1904-2003). He is the president of Roberto Marinho Foundation and vice-president of Grupo Globo.\n\nJosé Roberto Marinho was born on 26 December 1955 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Marinho is one of three sons of Roberto Marinho, founder of conglomerate Grupo Globo.\nFollowing the death of his father in 2003, aged 98, he and his brothers inherited control of Grupo Globo, Brazil's largest media group. Marinho heads up the Roberto Marinho Foundation, the family's philanthropy arm, which supports educational and cultural causes.\n\nMarinho is married, with five children, and lives in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "27194650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27194650", "title": "Kodjo Amegnisso Tossou", "text": "Kodjo Amegnisso Tossou\n\nKodjo Amegnisso Tossou (born 24 December 1966, in Sokode, Togo) is a Togolese politician and businessman. Tossou studied at Cheikh Anta Diop University, from which he received a degree in organizational management. After working for a number of pharmacies in Togo, he established a network of businesses in West Africa as a merchant of high-tech goods, selling brands from Europe.\n\nIn 1990, Tossou founded World Aid for Children, Inc. As founder and CEO, Tossou has spent much of his career supporting, educating (especially through vocational training), and representing the needs of disadvantaged children. In 1990, he founded the Association of the Struggle against Unemployment. Tossou returned to Togo in April 1992 and founded the Togolese Labour Party (Parti Liberal Togolais-PLT) the next month . He has led the party since its foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "38711919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38711919", "title": "Konstantinos Piladakis", "text": "Konstantinos Piladakis\n\nKonstantinos Piladakis (Greek: Κωνσταντίνος Πηλαδάκης; born 17 August 1966 in Athens), is a Greek Businessman.\n\nHe was born in Athens on 17 August 1966 and by the summer of 2004, has been the owner and chairman of AEL 1964 FC. He dealt with sports as a basketball player, while in the same sport he made also his first steps as an administrative (Piraikos, Ilysiakos). His entanglement with football began in 2001 with Ilisiakos. He achieved a double promotion from Delta Ethniki to Football League, the second national division of Greek football before taking the reins of AEL from 2004 to 2013.\nOn his days the “Queen of Thessaly” returned in the Greek Superleague in 2005, achieved a European participation in the UEFA Intertoto Cup in 2006, lifted the 2007 Greek Cup for the second time in the club's history after 22 years and played in the UEFA Cup 2007–08, reaching the group stage by eliminating English club Blackburn Rovers.The team also made it to the Play Offs of Greek Superleague in the season 2008-09, taking a ticket for the qualifying phase of the first Europa League.\nHe is one of the founding members of the Greek Superleague cooperative and vice president at 2007, while from the summer of 2008 until the summer of 2009, he has been the 3rd chairman in the history of the association.\n\nExcept football – his enterprising activities are including also the following :\n\n\nAlso, he is the founder of air company VIRGIN ATLANTIC (Greece, 1992 – 2002) and has been directing adviser until 1999, while he was rewarded by the former Secretary-General of United Nations, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, at the event of awards Leaders Of The Year 2003, as the best new Greek businessman of the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "5313411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5313411", "title": "Line function", "text": "Line function\n\nIn management, a line function is any kind of daily operation such as purchasing, manufacturing, and selling that is directly involved in carrying out the purpose of an organization. This contrasts to a staff function (such as the human resources department), which involves the provision of advice and other support to those involved in a line function.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260939", "title": "List of FASB pronouncements", "text": "List of FASB pronouncements\n\nThis article is a list of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) pronouncements, which consist of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (\"SFAS\" or simply \"FAS\"), Statements of Financial Accounting Concepts, Interpretations, Technical Bulletins, and Staff Positions, which together present rules and guidelines for preparing, presenting, and reporting financial statements within the United States according to generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") in the United States Of America, of which this list makes up a substantial part.\n\nThe SFAS have been superseded by the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). The codification is effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. All existing accounting standards documents are superseded by the ASC. All other accounting literature not included in the Codification is now deemed nonauthoritative.\n\nStatements of Financial Accounting Concepts are a part of the FASB conceptual framework project. They set fundamental objectives and concepts that FASB will use in developing future U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), however, they are not a part of the US GAAP. To date, 7 Concept Statements have been issued. See List of Concept Statements at the FASB website for more information.\n\nFASB Interpretations extend or explain existing standards (primarily Statements of Financial Accounting Standards), and are considered part of U.S. Generally accepted accounting principles. As of September 2006, 48 interpretations have been published.\n\nAs of May 2009, FASB has 70 issued and active FSPs and lists 11 FSPs that have been superseded. See FASB Staff Positions for the current listing.\n\nThe list of FASB Technical Bulletins follows the list of Staff Positions on the FASB website; See the start of the listing at FASB Technical Bulletins.\n\n"}
{"id": "46459109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46459109", "title": "List of Mexican brands", "text": "List of Mexican brands\n\nThis is a list of Mexican brands, which encompasses brand-name products and services produced by companies in Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50680195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50680195", "title": "MCI Group", "text": "MCI Group\n\nMCI Group, based in Geneva, Switzerland, is the world's largest professional conference organiser employing 1,800 people in 31 countries as of April 2016. The company also operates as an association management company, or AMC.\n\nMCI operates marketing-events firm Black Flower Agency; Don't Believe in Style, a cultural creative agency in southeast Asia; technical production firm Dorier; performance measurement services firm FairControl; public-affairs company Logos Public Affairs; destination management company Ovation DMC; and incentive-travel operator Hagen Invent.\n\nIn 2015, the company acquired McLean, Va.-based Coulter Cos., an AMC, which has since been rebranded MCI USA.\n\nRoger Tondeur founded MCI in Geneva in 1987. In 2010, he handed over the reins to his son, Sébastien Tondeur, who now leads the company as CEO.\n"}
{"id": "11988019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988019", "title": "Managerial psychology", "text": "Managerial psychology\n\nManagerial psychology is a sub-discipline of industrial and organizational psychology, which focuses on the efficacy of individuals, groups and organizations in the workplace. Its purpose is to specifically aid managers in gaining a better understanding of the psychological patterns common among individuals and groups within any given organisation. Managerial psychology can be used to predict and prevent harmful psychological patterns within the workplace and can also be implemented to control psychological patterns among individuals and groups in a way that will benefit the organisation long term. (Robbins, SP et al.2010).\n\nIf in the early stages managerial psychologists used to study the problems of fatigue, boredom, and other working conditions that could impede efficient work performance. More recently, their contributions have expanded to include learning, perception, personality, emotions, training, leadership, effectiveness, needs and motivational forces, job satisfaction, decision-making processes, performance appraisals, attitude measurement, employee-selection techniques, work design, and job stress(Robbins, SP et al.2010). This means that they apply psychology principles to the workplace and use their skills to study workplace productivity, morale, employee screening or organizational development. Apart from this, they can also train and screen job applicants, assist with organizational development, and consult with corporations on a problem-solving basis.\n\n\nHerzberg et al.’s (1959) seminal two-factor theory of motivation theorized that satisfaction and dissatisfaction were not two opposite extremes of the same sequence, but two separate entities caused by quite different facets of work – these were labelled as “hygiene factors” and “motivators”. Hygiene factors are characterized as extrinsic components of job design that contribute to employee dissatisfaction if they are not met. Examples include: supervision, working conditions, company policies, salary, and relations with co-workers. Motivators, however, are intrinsic to the job itself and include aspects such as achievement, development, responsibility and recognition. On the other hand, intrinsic factors have long been acknowledged as important determinants of motivation. There is a longstanding debate as to whether hygiene factors really contribute to job satisfaction (Furnham et al., 1999; Warr, 1987). Most job satisfaction and motivation research literature is concerned with organisational or situational predictors (such as pay and supervision) (Locke, 1976) while neglecting individual differences (Staw and Ross, 1985). O’Reilly et al. (1980) discovered that individuals’ significantly differ in the way they perceive their jobs, even if the job description and the tasks they had to perform remained constant, thus suggesting that some individual differences must have an effect on work attitudes.\n\nStaw et al. (1986) argued that individual disposition may have a profound influence over how the working world is perceived (i.e. what is important to the individual), and this is likely to affect the type of jobs that are sought.\n\nIt was first introduced in Gosling et al., (2003) and the ten items of this measure are scored using a seven-point scale, with two statements (one reversed) used to measure each personality variable. The authors report extensive data showing good reliability and validity of this instrument.\n\nThis inventory introduced in Furnham et al., (2005) consists of 37 items and requires individuals to report the extent to which intrinsic (e.g.responsibility and personal growth) and extrinsic (e.g. pay and benefits) components are important to them on a six-point scale. The WVQ is a revised version of Mantech’s(1983) questionnaire. Previous studies have indicated that between two and four factors tend to be extracted, and that these often correspond to Herzberg et al.’s (1959) hygiene and motivator factors .\n\nThis scale introduced in Warr et al., (1979) consists of 15 items, seven of which measure intrinsic satisfaction, whilst the remaining eight measure extrinsic job satisfaction. Responses are given on a seven-point scale and can be summed to create and overall satisfaction score as well as an intrinsic and extrinsic value.\n\nIn a recent issue of Journal of Managerial Psychology published in 2009 is presented an experiment with 202 full-time employees (81 males, mean age=38.3 and 121 females, mean age= 28.4) working in very different jobs in the retail, manufacturing and healthcare to investigate the extent to which personality and demographic factors explain variance in motivation and job satisfaction as defined by Herzberg et al.’s (1959) two-factor theory. Every person was given 3 questionnaires ( The ten item personality inventory, The work values questionnaire (WVQ), The job satisfaction scale) and had to complete them via a website.\n\nAs predicted, personality and demographic variables were significant correlates of the extracted factors, accounting for between 9 and 15.2 per cent of the variance. Similarly, personality and demographic variables were also significantly related to all three job satisfaction scores and accounted for between 10.5 and 12.7 per cent of the variance. As expected, conscientiousness was a significant correlate of job satisfaction scores in both correlational and regressional analyses. Contrary to expectations, age, job tenure and years working full-time were not significantly related to job satisfaction scores; however, in line with predictions and the two-factor theory, job status was significantly associated with these scores.\n\nNegative relationships were observed between the security and conditions factor and job status, as well as years in full-time employment. These results suggest that individuals with low job status (e.g. graduate positions and non-managerial roles) are more concerned with working conditions and clarity in their work than those of a higher status and individuals who have been working for longer periods.\n\nThese results further validate the contention that work attitudes are not the product of situational factors alone, and that both literature and organisations should further investigate the variables that contribute to these values with the intention of increasing job satisfaction and performance, through effective selection methods and pervasive job interventions.\n\nAbraham Maslow developed the Hierarchy of Needs model in 1940-50s USA, and the Hierarchy of Needs theory remains valid today for understanding human motivation, management training, and personal development. Maslow's ideas surrounding the Hierarchy of Needs concern the responsibility of employers to provide a workplace environment that encourages and enables employees to fulfill their own unique potential (self-actualization).\n\nWhile Maslow referred to various additional aspects of motivation, he expressed the Hierarchy of Needs in these five clear stages.\n\n\nDouglas McGregor, an American social psychologist, proposed his famous X-Y theory in his 1960 book 'The Human Side Of Enterprise'. Theory X and Theory Y are still referred to commonly in the field of management and motivation. McGregor's ideas suggest that there are two fundamental approaches to managing people. Many managers tend towards theory x, and generally get poor results. Enlightened managers use theory y, which produces better performance and results, and allows people to grow and develop.\n\n\n\nSee also Need theory\n\nDavid McClelland in his 1961 book, \"The Achieving Society \" identified three motivators that he believed we all have: a need for achievement, a need for affiliation, and a need for power. People will have different characteristics depending on their dominant motivator. According to McClelland, these motivators are learned (which is why this theory is sometimes called the Learned Needs Theory).\n\nMcClelland says that, regardless of our gender, culture, or age, we all have three motivating drivers, and one of these will be our dominant motivating driver. This dominant motivator is largely dependent on our culture and life experiences.\n\nPeople motivated by achievement need challenging, but not impossible, projects. They thrive on overcoming difficult problems or situations, so make sure you keep them engaged this way. People motivated by achievement work very effectively either alone or with other high achievers.\n\nWhen providing feedback, give achievers a fair and balanced appraisal. They want to know what they're doing right – and wrong – so that they can improve.\n\nPeople motivated by affiliation work best in a group environment, so try to integrate them with a team (versus working alone) whenever possible. They also don't like uncertainty and risk. Therefore, when assigning projects or tasks, save the risky ones for other people.\n\nWhen providing feedback to these people, be personal. It's still important to give balanced feedback, but if you start your appraisal by emphasizing their good working relationship and your trust in them, they'll likely be more open to what you say. Remember that these people often don't want to stand out, so it might be best to praise them in private rather than in front of others.\n\nThose with a high need for power work best when they're in charge. Because they enjoy competition, they do well with goal-oriented projects or tasks. They may also be very effective in negotiations or in situations in which another party must be convinced of an idea or goal.\n\nWhen providing feedback, be direct with these team members. And keep them motivated by helping them further their career goals\n\n"}
{"id": "22552957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22552957", "title": "McDonald family", "text": "McDonald family\n\nThe McDonalds were a wealthy family of California during the 19th and 20th centuries. Descended from Mark Lindsay McDonald (1833-1917), they built and owned the historic residence \"Mableton\", also known as the \"McDonald Mansion\", in Santa Rosa.\n\nColonel Mark L. McDonald was born in Kentucky but settled in California during the 1850s. He made his money in road construction, and later in property development in Santa Rosa. He was married to Ralphine North McDonald (1843-1918), from Mississippi, and among their seven children it was Mark McDonald Jr. (died 1932) who became heir to Mableton. Mark Jr. was also a successful businessman, running a water works and a fruit packing plant. He and his wife Isabelle, \"\" Juilliard (died 1960), made alterations to Mableton during the 1920s. They had three children, including their son Juilliard who died childless in 1946, and his sister Marcia later became the last McDonald heir. Upon Marcia's death in 1971, Mableton passed to the City of Santa Rosa.\n\nColonel Mark L. McDonald, Sr., a Kentucky native, came west as captain of a wagon train in the early 1850s. Trained in engineering, he first built roadways servicing gold and silver mines. His early successes allowed him to buy a seat on the San Francisco Stock Exchange, during which time he joined the ranks of the rich and powerful, including George Hearst, Leland Stanford and Charles Crocker.\n\nBy the late 1860s, McDonald had begun to apply his wealth, influence and entrepreneurial spirit to new business opportunities in Santa Rosa. These included purchase and subdivision of of land in what was known as McDonald’s Addition. During the 1870s, the new development flourished and McDonald Avenue became the premier residential street of Santa Rosa. The neighborhood’s popularity was enhanced by a range of amenities including gas and water service, a new streetcar line established by Colonel McDonald, and an extensive tree planting program implemented with the assistance of famed local horticulturist Luther Burbank.\n\nMcDonald was active in civic affairs and was instrumental in the development of numerous local improvements, including Santa Rosa’s first library, the first steam railroad brought to Santa Rosa and operation of the Santa Rosa Water Works Company, an early private utility. He capitalized and built the nearby reservoir known as Lake Ralphine, which was named for McDonald’s wife. His other business interests included fruit packing plants and drying yards in the area.\n\nThe McDonalds’ primary residence was in San Francisco and Mableton, later known and listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the McDonald Mansion, was built as their summer home. The couple had seven children, although two of their daughters (Ralphine and Alice) died during childhood. Those surviving into adulthood included Mark L. McDonald, Jr., Stewart, Mabel, Edith and Florence.\n\nMark McDonald Jr. married Isabelle Juilliard, and it was they who would eventually own Mableton. Stewart McDonald died of tuberculosis in 1907. Mabel was an accomplished horsewoman who married William H. Hamilton of San Francisco. Edith married wealthy Selah Chamberlain, a socially prominent San Franciscan. Florence was also an excellent horsewoman who married Maxwell McNutt, of San Francisco.\nMark L. McDonald Sr. died in 1917 in San Francisco at the age of 84. Following his death, his wife Ralphine resided at Mableton, where she died in 1918 at the age of 75. The couple is buried at the north end of McDonald Avenue.\n\nAfter the death of the senior McDonalds, the eldest son Mark Jr. and his wife Isabelle eventually became sole owners of Mableton, and made it their primary residence. In his career, Mark Jr. followed the example of his father, and found success running the Santa Rosa Water Works, and the M. L. McDonald Jr. and Co. Fruit Packing plant. He also had extensive holdings in orchard land and other real estate.\n\nLike her husband, Isabelle was a native Californian with family roots dating back to the Gold Rush. Her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Frederick Juilliard, settled in Santa Rosa. The site of their family home was donated to the city by Isabelle’s father, and survives today as Juilliard Park in downtown Santa Rosa. Isabelle’s privileged upbringing included private East Coast schooling and several years of residence in Tuxedo Park, New York with her wealthy uncle Augustus D. Juilliard, who was the founder of the Juilliard School of Music.\n\nBy the early 1920s, Mark and Isabelle had begun to extensively remodel Mableton to suit their own tastes. Among the changes they implemented were alterations to the rear of the house, installation of additional bathrooms, and numerous landscape improvements, including a tennis court (now the site of a formal garden). The couple had two children who survived into adulthood: a son, Juilliard, and a daughter, Marcia (a third child, Mark McDonald III, died in infancy).\n\nAfter Mark L. McDonald, Jr. died in 1932, Isabelle occupied a Nob Hill apartment in San Francisco as her primary residence. Until her death in 1960, Mableton was once again used mostly as a summer home. Isabelle’s son, Juilliard McDonald, had a successful career and maintained the family’s business interests. Although he was married twice, Juilliard died childless in 1946. Following the death of Isabelle, her daughter Marcia became the last surviving McDonald heir. Like her mother, Marcia chose to make her primary home in a San Francisco apartment. However, she was less inclined to visit Mableton, and allowed the property to fall into disrepair.\n\nWhen Marcia died in 1971 at the age of 65, the fate of the mansion was uncertain. The terms of Isabelle’s will and trust had dictated that, upon Marcia’s death, Mableton was to be left jointly to the University of California and Stanford University. Eventually, the property was offered for sale to the City of Santa Rosa, and local controversy over possible development plans for the site ensued.\n"}
{"id": "13475035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13475035", "title": "Michael Hirschfeld", "text": "Michael Hirschfeld\n\nMichael Avigdor Hirschfeld (27 October 1944 – 5 January 1999) was a Wellington, New Zealand multi-millionaire businessman, and was President of the New Zealand Labour Party from 1995 to 1999.\n\nHe was born in Wellington; his parents had arrived from Palestine in 1940, and his father Sigi Hirschfeld started the firm of Mico Wakefield, which was sold to an Australian company in 1994. His grandparents were Austrian, and he was a ‘secular Jew’ and agnostic.\n\nHirschfeld went to Wellington College and Victoria University of Wellington, where he was active in the anti-Vietnam War movement. He was elected to the Labour executive in 1971 aged 27, but was not re-elected.\n\nHe then joined the family firm. He had been on the boards of several companies, the New Zealand Shipping Corporation and the Pacific Forum Line, as well as boards of organizations like Circa Theatre, the Victoria University Council and Amnesty International. The Michael Hirschfeld Gallery on Wellington's Waterfront is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "26297718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26297718", "title": "Mohamed Bin Issa Al Jaber", "text": "Mohamed Bin Issa Al Jaber\n\nMohamed Bin Issa Al Jaber (), DIN 31635 \"Muḥammad bin ʿĪssā al-Ǧābir\", born 1959 in Jeddah) is an Arab businessman and philanthropist. He is known for hotel and resort investments through the MBI Group, and for his philanthropy through the MBI Al Jaber Foundation, based in London. He lives in Paris, London, Vienna and Jeddah.\n\nMohamed Bin Issa Al Jaber is Founder, Chairman and CEO of the MBI Group.\n\nThe MBI Group activities include various entities including the following companies:\n\n\nIn April 2011, Al Jaber announced that he owned 80% of the Group and mentioned a 300 million euro profit for the year 2010.\n\nAl Jaber was listed as a billionaire in March 2013 by \"Forbes\" and in May 2014 featured in The Sunday Times Rich List at number 13, the highest entry for an Arab. Arabian Business's 2013 rich list 'The world's richest Arabs' puts Al Jaber at number 2 with $12.66bn. Bloomberg Billionaires gives his net worth as $7.19BN as of August 2018.\n\nIn 1982, Al Jaber founded Jadawel International Construction & Development. In 1989, JJW Hotels & Resorts was established in Portugal; it currently operates 60 hotel and leisure resorts in Europe and the Middle East. In 1992, AJWA Group for Agro and Food Industries, a company of which Al Jaber is a shareholder, commenced operations following the construction of the largest rice storage and processing facility in Saudi Arabia at Jeddah Islamic Port.\n\nIn 2003, Al Jaber opened negotiations to purchase J.A. Jones Construction, a US subsidiary of Philipp Holzmann construction group. However, the negotiations were not completed.\n\nIn 2003, Al Jaber's Dorrat Al Jadawel residential compound in Riyadh was one of those targeted in an Al Qaeda attack.\n\nIn September 2003, Al Jaber and Dr Nihad Ibrahim Pacha took over the management of Quinta Vale Da Gondra Hotel e SPA (Unipessoal) Lda.\n\nIn January 2008, Portuguese press revealed that Al Jaber is expanding his business in the Algarve and investing about €200 million to buy the Hotel Dona Filipa in Vale do Lobo, the golf course San Lourenzo in Quinta do Lago, the Hotel Penina and its 3 golf courses from Starman (a joint-venture between the Lehman Brothers bank and Starwood Capital Group). Other assets in the regions are the Pinheiros Altos Golf Resort and the Formosa Hotel. In 2013 JJW Hotels and Resorts took over the management of the Penina Hotel and Golf Resort, and also announced plans for a major refurbishment of the Dona Filipa. Mohsen MBI Al Jaber, son of Mohamed Bin Issa Al Jaber, has held the role of Vice President of the Portugal sector of the MBI Group since October 2015.\n\nIn 2002, Al Jaber acquired the famous Grand Hotel, Vienna from the Japanese airline All Nippon Airways. He later acquired the premises of a former bank on Kärntner Ring and converted the building to the boutique Ring Hotel.\n\nIn October 2006, Al Jaber bought the Palais Corso, Vienna's premier luxury shopping and office complex from Generali Versicherung, for about €70 million.\n\nIn 2007, Al Jaber agreed to invest 10% in the building of the Vienna Tourism University (Modul University Vienna), a project handled by the Vienna Economic Chamber and provided scholarships for students there both personally and through his Foundation.\n\nAlso in 2007, JJW signed an agreement for the takeover and the expansion of the Palace Schwarzenberg Hotel in Vienna, along with Magnat Real Estate. However, delays to the project led to its cancellation. An amicable settlement was reached.\n\nIn the beginning of 2008, Al Jaber proposed to help the financially troubled Austrian Airlines with investments through taking a 20% stake in the company. However, he withdrew his offer in May 2008 after the company published its negative quarterly results, based on the grounds that the company intentionally withheld the actual level of trouble faced. Auditor Herbert Heiser, who was called by the court to consult in the legal dispute between AUA and Al Jaber, agreed with Al Jaber’s conclusions. He states in his report that rather than its officially declared profit of €3.3 million, the AUA should have revealed a hefty loss – of around €235 million.\n\nIn July 2008, Al Jaber took a 60% stake in Kneissl Holding GmbH, an Austrian manufacturer of sports equipment. JJA Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH bought the entire company in December 2012 for €1,98 million.\n\nIn 2008 Vienna's Trialog Institut named Al Jaber 'Man of the Year' for his work in promoting inter-cultural understanding. Presenting the award, Karl Blecha, former Federal Minister of the Interior and of the Austrian-Arabic Association, praised Al Jaber for his work towards building bridges through education and understanding and his support of peace, tolerance and democracy.\n\nJJW Hotels & Resorts currently owns and operates a 4-star boutique hotel in Leeds, 42 The Calls. JJW sees more scope to expand the portfolio by acquisition particularly in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2007, Al Jaber expanded the portfolio of the Guernsey-based JJW Hotels & Resorts group by acquiring The Eton Collection hotels for a reported £70 million. \nDuring the recession three years later, five of the hotels went into administration. A further two hotels were unaffected. The Westmont Hospitality, purchased the five hotels for £55 million. The London Berners Hotel, also owned by JJW Hotels & Resorts, was purchased by Marriott International.\n\nIn 2008, Al Jaber personally guaranteed three loans contracted by his hotel and food companies from Standard Bank. Following delays to repay the loans, the bank went to court in 2011, resulting in assets freezing, which Al Jaber declared resulted in a personal loss of $1.6 billion. The case was settled after the two parties reached a private settlement in December 2011.\n\nThe Group opened their first office in France in 1991.\n\nThe hotel empire of Al Jaber was initially started in France in 1988 and expanded to over 35 hotel properties in France and almost 80 in Europe.\n\nIn October 2008, it was announced that the Group planned to acquire a number of hotels in France from the Starwood Capital Group for $2billion but the deal was not concluded.\n\nIn April 2012, facing difficulties, JJW France requested the Paris Court of Commerce to place it under safeguards. Saveguard was granted. However, on the 16th of July, the Paris Commercial Court ordered JJW France to enter receivership. The Court of Appeal of Paris cancelled the receivership placement decision and confirmed the safeguards procedure on February 7, 2013\n\nPersonal\n\nAl Jaber is married and has three children. His children are all Trustees of the MBI Al Jaber Foundation. His son Mohsen Al Jaber is Vice President of the MBI Group Portugal. In 2007 Al Jaber obtained Austrian nationality.\n\nIn 2009, MBI Al Jaber released his first book, 'Yes, the Arabs can too' (Arabic 2009, English 2013). The book provides a contemporary Arab view on the changes that are being wrought both economically and socially across the region.\n\nPhilanthropy\n\nMBI Al Jaber is the founder, sole patron and Chairman of the MBI Al Jaber Foundation, founded in 2002, which is a UK registered charity governed by a Board of Trustees chosen for their areas of expertise in the Middle East, which have included Lord Young of Graffham, Sir Tim Lankester and Professor Peter Jones. The MBI Al Jaber Foundation operates in the fields of education, cultural dialogue and good governance. \n\nSince its launch, The MBI Al Jaber Foundation has provided a wide range of academic scholarships in order for students from the MENA regions to continue their education at some of the world’s leading universities. \nMBI Al Jaber is the founding patron and donor of the London Middle East Institute at SOAS, and has endowed the MBI Al Jaber Chair in Middle East Studies. \nThe MBI Al Jaber Foundation is the main sponsor of the British Foundation of the Study of Arabia, a UK Registered Charity which exists to promote research relating to the Arabian Peninsula. \n\nIn 2003, MBI Al Jaber donated SR21 million to Dar Al-Hekma University for women in Jeddah. \n\nThe MBI Al Jaber Foundation is a leading supporter of Connecting Cultures, an intercultural educational program that creates close ties and greater understanding between young people of varying backgrounds. Connecting Cultures has been cited by the UN Alliance of Civilisations as one of the world’s leading civil society initiatives. \n\nMBI Al Jaber was co-founding patron of the Olive Tree Programme at City, University of London, which ran from 2004 to 2016. The programme brought Israeli and Palestinian students together to study in London. Olive Tree Alumni include Stav Shaffir, who became the youngest female Knesset member in Israel's history. \n\nIn 2009, MBI Al Jaber was cited as a leading exponent of good philanthropic practices in the Centre for Social Cohesion's publication, A Degree of Influence: \n\nCapital projects supported by the MBI Al Jaber Foundation include the MBI Al Jaber Building \n\nThe MBI Al Jaber Foundation works closely with UNESCO on a number of issues and projects, including: support for the Euro-Arab Dialogue Initiative; Educational reform in countries such as Algeria and Yemen; and the Kitab fi Jarida ‘a book in a newspaper’ project. In 2005, MBI Al Jaber was nominated by the UNESCO Director General as their personal representative for \"education, human rights, tolerance, and cultures to build peace and democracy.\" \n\nBetween 2013 and 2015 the MBI Al Jaber Foundation spent approx £1.2m; it spent £114,000 in 2016; and less than £40,000 in 2017. \n\nIn 2013 the MBI Al Jaber Foundation launched a Media Training Institute in Sana'a, Yemen; with a view to promoting a free press, the institute offered free courses in all types of journalism and broadcasting. This and a number of other projects have currently been paused due to the ongoing volatility in the region.\n\nAl Jaber holds the following honorary degrees and awards:\n\nBetween 2010 and 2012, Jadawel International was cited in various reports published by New York-based NGO Human Rights Watch (HRW) on the topic of Saudi restrictive residency laws. Following investigation, Human Rights Watch’s 2013 World report is not reporting any further issues and has cleared the company. In fact, Al Jaber's Foundation has signed an agreement with Human Rights Watch to support civil society and promote human rights in the Arab World.\n\nIn 2011, proceedings were filed against the Non-Executive Chairman of AJWA group for Food Industries, for facts being documented in the company records by members of the company administration. The charges were against the Non-Executive Chairman of Ajwa, for acts that were performed by the employees of the company, and resulted in the company being fined. In February 2013, Al Jaber was exonerated of any wrongdoing by the Head of Appeals Attorney General. Al Jaber is now a shareholder of the company.\n\nIn May 2011, Al Jaber publicly denounced a defamation campaign by Austrian Media which had sought to imply financial difficulties in some of the companies that Al Jaber had invested in. He accused the newspapers of reporting a one-sided version of events.\n\nFrom 2007, Berners Hotel and JJW were embroiled in lawsuits with several UK based construction companies due to lack of payment for efforts expended. Chorus and Shepherds Construction companies abandoned the project and sought legal remedies for non payment from Berners.\n\n"}
{"id": "42981891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42981891", "title": "Moulay Youssef Alaoui", "text": "Moulay Youssef Alaoui\n\n\"Sharif Moulay\" Youssef Alaoui (born c. 1969 in Rabat) is a maternal first cousin and a paternal second cousin of Mohammed VI. He is reportedly a close friend of king Mohammed VI who appointed him as an advisor and regularly appears beside the monarch in official visits, most recently in Tunisia in June 2014.\n\nSharif Moulay Youssef Alaoui is also an important business man in the country active in the hospitality, Tourism and real-estate sectors, sometimes in association with Prince Moulay Rachid. He owns the holding \"Blue Invest\", that controlled the \"Tahiti Beach Club\" in Casablanca\n\nHe is the youngest son of Prince Moulay Ali and Princess Lalla Fatima Zohra and the brother of Sharif Moulay Abdallah Alaoui and Princess Lalla Joumala Alaoui. He studied at the Collège royal in Rabat in the same class as Prince Moulay Rachid.\n"}
{"id": "4003995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4003995", "title": "Mouna Ayoub", "text": "Mouna Ayoub\n\nMouna Ayoub () (born on 27 February 1957 in Kuwait) is a well-known French socialite and businesswoman of Lebanese origin. Frequently in the media, she is often a guest of the Cannes film festival and makes headlines in French gossip magazines.\n\nShe was born into a Maronite Christian family. At the age of 20 she converted to Islam in order to marry Nasser Al-Rashid, a 40-year-old businessman and adviser to King Fahd. She has five children with Nasser Al-Rashid. After eighteen years of marriage, and according to her divorce agreements, she left Saudi Arabia and built a fortune by investing in real estate and stocks. She wrote about her marriage in her 2000 book \"La Vérité: autobiographie\".\n\nAyoub stated she wrote the book to explain her situation, and to address allegations published in the Middle East by a Lebanese magazine that she was a modern-day Madame Bovary. As Scott MacLeod of \"Time Magazine\" wrote: \"But if her tale provides a rare look at the extravagance often wrought by unimagined wealth, it also serves as a disturbing manifesto against the extreme restrictions imposed on women by some ultraconservative Arab societies.\" Her former husband filed suit in an attempt to stop publication of the autobiography. The book became a best seller in France.\n\nIn 1997, she bought a boat from Bernard Tapie, the \"Phocéa\" (the largest sailing yacht in the world before 2004), for €5.56 million to which was added €18.25 million worth of work. To pay for this work Ayoub sold a number of her jewels including \"The Mouna diamond,\" one of the largest yellow diamonds of the world () for a price of €2.52 million (16.5 million francs) and a Bulgari necklace for 15.3 million francs. After getting rid of the yacht, she sold the contents in a well publicized auction.\n\nThe Associated Press estimated her net worth at over $300 million. In 2006, \"The New York Times\" offered a figure of about $500 million.\n\nShe has the largest private collection of haute couture in the world, encompassing more than 10,000 items. She never wears the same item of couture twice, and all of the major couture houses maintain an Ayoub mannequin for a proper fit in her absence. The Associated Press claimed: \"She's also a couture philanthropist. She has just donated what's been described as the most expensive dress made to Paris' Musee de la Mode — a gold Chanel dress that cost over 300,000 euros.\"\n\nHer rags to riches story, involving cross cultural tension and claimed \"scandal\", has been the subject of intense reportage. As \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported: \"ONE of the richest women in the world will this week disclose how a disastrous marriage to a Saudi Royal family adviser drove her to depression and attempted suicide.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33501212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33501212", "title": "Mustafa Bin Dardef", "text": "Mustafa Bin Dardef\n\nMustafa Bin Dardef () (1968 – 18 October 2011) was a popular field commander from the Zintan brigade of the Anti-Gaddafi forces during the Libyan Civil War. He was killed by a mortar round just two days before the fall of Sirte and death of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi.\n\nBin Dardef was a businessman in the Mediterranean city of Benghazi before he joined the uprising, importing medical equipment and children's toys, and was twice jailed under the Gaddafi regime for his alleged Islamist leanings. He commanded the Fakhri Alsalabi unit, named after a pilot killed in mid-March, and fought in the second battle of Benghazi. He left behind a son and four daughters.\n\nHe was active in the battle of Sirte, being the commander who announced the capture of Sirte's port on 26 September and speaking to news crews discussing the latest advances. He also announced the reports that Moussa Ibrahim had been captured in September, although this would later prove untrue. Ibrahim was again reported captured when Sirte fell, however, this was again proven to be untrue. On 22 October 2011, he was again reportedly captured for a third time, along with Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, near Bani Walid.\n\nBin Dardef died when a mortar round slammed into a vehicle packed with ammunition. A piece of metal tore into his bullet-proof vest while another ripped his throat, killing him almost instantly. He was buried in Benghazi's Martyrs' Cemetery, along with other fighters who had died in Sirte.\n"}
{"id": "6040493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6040493", "title": "Newport city centre", "text": "Newport city centre\n\nNewport city centre is traditionally regarded as the area of Newport, Wales bounded by the west bank of the River Usk, the George Street Bridge, the eastern flank of Stow Hill and the South Wales Main Line. Most of the city centre is contained within two conservation areas: the central area and the area around Lower Dock Street. Most of the city centre is located in the Stow Hill district.\n\nThe main shopping thoroughfare is Commercial Street, which forms part of the north-south axis of High Street, Commercial Street and Commercial Road, linking the heart of the city with Newport Docks. The streets were laid-out in 1807 by Sir Charles Morgan's Tredegar Wharf Company to connect the expanding docks with the main roads in the centre.\n\nThe area between Commercial Street and the river used to contain a mixture of railway lines and river wharves so the street pattern in this area was never fixed. On the removal of the railway lines and wharves in the 1960s the large John Frost Square (1977) and Kingsway Shopping Centre were built, close to Newport bus station. This area has been redeveloped to provide the Friars Walk shopping and leisure complex which was opened in November 2015. As part of this redevelopment, the Chartist Mural was destroyed.\n\nTowards the northern end of Newport city centre is Westgate Square, named after the Westgate Hotel. Here, the five roads of Commercial Street, Stow Hill, Bridge Street, High Street and Skinner Street converge. This is generally regarded as the centre although the actual centre, as measured on road signs, is further up Bridge Street outside the Queen's Hotel where most OS maps pin point the centre.\n\nOn Upper Dock Street is the Chartist Tower, a 15-storey office block, built in 1966 and the tallest building in Newport. It features a secure underground car park. Radio transmitters and mobile phone masts are situated on the roof. During the 2014 NATO summit a security forces command and control team was housed temporarily in the building, with the top floor and roof being used as an observation post. In 2017 the building was sold as party of a £6.5M deal and is planned to be developed into a 163-bed Mercure hotel.\n\nFrom Bridge Street, the two roads of High Street and Cambrian Road run in parallel towards Newport railway station. Joining the two roads is the covered Victorian Newport Arcade. At the western end of the arcade is the Cambrian Centre which is being redeveloped. To the east of High Street is Newport Market, a Grade II-listed building.\n\nKingsway/Usk Way is a boulevard on the west bank of the River Usk linking Newport Castle the Riverfront Theatre and the University of South Wales to the western ends of City Bridge and Newport Transporter Bridge. The city centre is currently being expanded to include areas on the east bank. The area between Newport Bridge and George Street Bridge is included in the Newport Unlimited master plan as a new high-density combined commercial and residential area, joined to the west bank by Newport City footbridge. The plan shows a strong urban form along the riverfront, emphasised with tall landmark buildings.\n\nThe city's major sports stadium, at Rodney Parade on the east bank of the River Usk, is a short walk from the city centre via Newport Bridge or Newport City footbridge.\n\nMany of the non-retail city centre businesses are located on Bridge Street. In 2014 Admiral Insurance opened a large newly constructed office opposite Newport railway station.\n\nNewport's city centre shops are concentrated along the pedestrianised High Street, Commercial Street and adjoining roads. Friars Walk shopping and leisure complex and, linked by John Frost Square, the adjoining Kingsway Shopping Centre are the main under-cover shopping areas. The city centre has suffered from competition from Cwmbran Centre and out-of-town shopping areas at Newport Retail Park to the east and retail parks around Maesglas to the west. The protracted development of Friars Walk was also cited as a reason for high street stores, such as Marks and Spencer, leaving the city centre during the 2010s.\n\nThe Cambrian Centre is a small shopping centre in Cambrian Road in Newport city centre. Among other units, it houses one of the city's Wetherspoon's public houses, the John Wallace Linton.\n\nA planning application by Holder Mathias Architects was approved in 2007 by Newport City Council for an £87 million redevelopment and refurbishment to be known as City Spires but it was mothballed in 2008 before construction started. An alternative redevelopment plan was started in 2012. The first phase of development, Admiral House, was opened in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "57275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57275", "title": "North American Industry Classification System", "text": "North American Industry Classification System\n\nThe North American Industry Classification System or NAICS (pronounced \"nakes\") is used by business and government to classify business establishments according to type of economic activity (process of production) in Canada, Mexico, and the United States of America. It has largely replaced the older Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system; however, certain government departments and agencies, such as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), still use the SIC codes.\n\nAn establishment is typically a single physical location, though administratively distinct operations at a single location may be treated as distinct establishments. Each establishment is classified to an industry according to the primary business activity taking place there. NAICS does not offer guidance on the classification of enterprises (companies) which are composed of multiple establishments.\n\nThe NAICS numbering system employs a five or six-digit code at the most detailed industry level. The first five digits are generally (although not always strictly) the same in all three countries. The first two digits designate the largest business sector, the third digit designates the subsector, the fourth digit designates the industry group, the fifth digit designates the NAICS industries, and the sixth digit designates the national industries.\n\nNAICS is a collaborative effort by Mexico's \"Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía\" (INEGI), Statistics Canada, and the United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB), through its Economic Classification Policy Committee (ECPC), staffed by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), and the Census Bureau. The system is designed to be largely compatible with the United Nations Statistical Office's International Standard Industrial Classification system (ISIC). NAICS versions are released every five years.\n\nWith the first version, released in 1997, NAICS offered enhanced coverage of the service sector, relative to SIC. The 2002 revision accommodated significant changes in the Information Sector. The 2012 revision slightly reduced the number of industries and modified six sectors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14190268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190268", "title": "Operational system", "text": "Operational system\n\nAn operational system is a term used in data warehousing to refer to a system that is used to process the day-to-day transactions of an organization. These systems are designed in a manner that processing of day-to-day transactions is performed efficiently and the integrity of the transactional data is preserved.\nSometimes operational systems are referred to as operational databases, transaction processing systems, or online transaction processing systems (OLTP). However, the use of the last two terms as synonyms may be confusing, because operational systems can be batch processing systems as well.\n\nAny enterprise must necessarily maintain a lot of data about its operation. \n\n"}
{"id": "27377738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27377738", "title": "Outsourced (TV series)", "text": "Outsourced (TV series)\n\nOutsourced is an American television sitcom set in an Indian workplace. It is based on the film of the same name and adapted by Robert Borden for Universal Media Studios and NBC. The series originally ran from September 23, 2010 to May 12, 2011. The show was officially picked up by NBC on May 7, 2010 and on October 18, 2010, the show received a full season order. \"Outsourced\" was filmed at Radford Studios in Studio City, Los Angeles, California.\n\nWhen the renewal of the show was not announced with renewal of other NBC shows, the cast and crew started a campaign for fans of the show to request its renewal. On May 13, 2011, NBC announced that \"Outsourced\" was cancelled after one season.\n\n\"Outsourced\" is set in a call center in Mumbai, India, where an American novelties company has recently outsourced its order processing. A lone American manages the call center and must explain American popular culture to his employees as he tries to understand Indian culture.\n\n\n\n\nThe show received mixed reviews, reaching a 46 out of 100 on review aggregator Metacritic. Another review aggregator, Rotten Tomatoes, gives the show a rating of 21% based on 14 reviews, with the critical consensus, \"This culture-clash sitcom is too mired in unfunny jokes and stereotypical characters to provide much insight into the global marketplace.\" Joel Keller of TV Squad in a review of the pilot episode stated, \"As long as the show can examine the cultural divide, show how all offices are the same no matter where they are, and stay away from the easy jokes, NBC could have another Thursday comedy hit.\" Alessandra Stanley of \"The New York Times\" stated \"The fact that it's neither embarrassing nor deeply offensive—once it gets rolling, the show is actually quite charming—is a credit to the cast and the writers.\" Critics such as blogger Mikey O'Connell have accused \"Outsourced\" of being racist. Matt Rouse of \"TV Guide\" wrote, \"The culture clash premise drowns in a sewer of caricatures and lame jokes\".\n\n\"Outsourced\" was picked up in Canada, for broadcast on Global at the same time as the American broadcast.\n\n\"Outsourced\" has been broadcast in Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, and Hong Kong on Universal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22286415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22286415", "title": "Resilience (organizational)", "text": "Resilience (organizational)\n\nOrganizational resilience is defined as \"the ability of a system to withstand changes in its environment and still function\". It is a capability that involves organizations either being able to endure the environmental changes without having to permanently adapt, or the organization is forced to adapt a new way of working that better suits the new environmental conditions.\n\nIn recent years, a new consensus of the concept of resilience emerged as a practical response to the decreasing lifespan of organisations and from the key stakeholders, including boards, governments, regulators, shareholders, staff, suppliers and customers to effectively address the issues of security, preparedness, risk, and survivability.\n\nAn organization that realizes the benefits of the above definitions of resilience will have a high likelihood of maintaining a successful and thriving enterprise.\n\nPreviously, it was considered that 'organisational resilience' could only be generated from processes and functions such as Risk Management, Business Continuity, IT Disaster Recovery, Crisis Management, Information Security, Operational continuity, Physical Security and so on. These are recognised as key contributors to operational resilience, and “the positive ability of a system or company to adapt itself to the consequences of a catastrophic failure caused by power outage, a fire, a bomb or similar” event or as \"the ability of a [system] to cope with change\". However, research from many academics including as Hamel & Valikangas in the Harvard Business Review, Boin, Comfort & Demchak and research facility ResOrgs has influenced understanding and lead to new viewpoints on resilience, including that from the BSI Group, being developed by ISO, the Australian government, ResOrgs, ICSA, and professional services firms such as PwC, all of which recognises that processes and functions are but one element of an organisation's resilience web.\n\nGlobal turbulence is expected. Competition, instability and uncertainty are constants in a changing world. Organizations face an unprecedented and growing number of potential disruptions to the status quo and the best laid strategic plans. As history repeats itself, prominent organizations will fail unless modern risk management and governance models incorporate scalable resilience metrics.\n\nTo survive and prosper in this new environment of heightened uncertainty and change, organizations must move past traditional risk and governance models and focus instead on resilience. Resilience applies at all levels: national, regional, organizational and corporate. At the national level, major infrastructure concerns and societal institutions must be robust enough, and unencumbered by legal and regulatory constraints, to serve the national good in normal operations, in crisis, and in recovery. At the regional levels, specific infrastructure assets come together in highly interdependent ways to serve local constituents and be a part of a national infrastructure. At the organizational and corporate level (which owns or operates the vast majority of our critical infrastructure assets), individual companies and operating units must ensure their business operations and service delivery capacities remain able to perform their primary business functions.\n\nYossi Sheffi extended the resilience concept to business continuity initiatives in his 2005 book \"The Resilient Enterprise\". Sheffi analyzed how disruptions can adversely affect the operations of corporations and how investments in resilience can give a business a competitive advantage over entities not prepared for various contingencies. Business organizations such as the Council on Competitiveness have embraced resilience and have tied economic competitiveness to security. The Reform Institute has highlighted the need to enhance the resilience of the supply chain and electrical grid against disruptions that could cripple the U.S. economy. Many corporations are adopting resilience and business continuity initiatives and sharing best practices.\n\nMany experts and leaders see resilience as a vital component to a homeland security strategy. Hurricane Katrina demonstrated that not all catastrophic events can be prevented and a focus on response and recovery is needed.\n\nProminent members in the United States Congress are embracing resilience. The Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives, Bennie Thompson (D-MS) declared May 2008 “Resilience Month” as the committee and its subcommittees held a series of hearings to examine the issue. President Obama and the Department of Homeland Security have also made resilience an integral component of homeland security policy.\n\nThe Quadrennial Homeland Security Review, released by the Department of Homeland Security in February 2010, made resilience a prominent theme and one of the core missions of the U.S. homeland security enterprise.\n\nBusiness and government enterprises that are able to quickly adapt to or seize competitive advantage from sudden and/or significant changes in their environments, with minimal interruption to their enterprise missions and manageable impact to their market value, as well as adapt to change in an apparently slower, more evolutionary manner - sometimes over many years or decades - can be described as being more resilient. Leading management consultancies and national governments including the Australia, U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the UK Cabinet Office believe that an organization’s resilience, properly understood, has critical implications for its competitive posture, profitability and shareholder value.\n\nOver the past years, business, academic and government leaders have become aware that certain organizations respond better to disruptions than other, often similarly situated, organizations. For example, a September 2003 Harvard Business Review article stated that “momentum is not the force it once was” in ensuring an organization’s success. They noted the emergence of several disruptive trends — including technological discontinuities, regulatory upheavals, geopolitical shocks, industry deverticalization and disintermediation, abrupt shifts in consumer tastes, and hordes of nontraditional competitors — that require companies to become resilient to remain successful. The authors concluded that “strategic resilience is not about responding to a one-time crisis. It’s not about rebounding from a setback. It’s about continuously anticipating and adjusting to deep, secular trends that can permanently impair the earning power of a core business. It’s about having the capacity to change before the case for change becomes desperately obvious.”\n\nResilience also has important implications for governance processes and systems. In a 2004 white paper the authors wrote that “enterprise resilience marries risk assessment, information reporting, and governance processes with strategic and business planning to create an enterprise-wide early warning capability that is embedded in the business of the company.” They explained that “Enterprise Resilience is predicated on an expanded view of risk—one that focuses on value, and therefore encompasses not only traditional risks (e.g., financial, natural hazards, physical security, legal, compliance) but also risks relating to earnings drivers (e.g., innovation, channel relationships, intellectual property) and company culture.”\n\nOver the past decade, governments worldwide have also become increasingly focused on protecting their facilities, technologies, networks, personnel and other mission-critical assets from attack or misappropriation. The risk of cyber-terrorism and other threats to critical infrastructure are of particular concern. On March 31, 2011, the President issued Presidential Policy Directive Eight (PPD-8) that directed the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to develop a national preparedness system with the objective of strengthening the security and resilience of the United States through systematic preparation for the threats that pose the greatest risk to the security of the Nation, including acts of terrorism, cyber attacks, pandemics, and catastrophic natural disasters. The directive defined resilience as “the ability to adapt to changing conditions and withstand and rapidly recover from disruption due to emergencies.”\n\nSecurity, whether applied to physical, financial, personnel, cyber information or any other asset, entails the measures to protect against danger or loss with emphasis on being protected from dangers that originate from outside. A significant breach in security could certainly impair an organizations ability to exist, and thus is a critical concept underlying the organization’s capacity to be resilient. Resilience is proactive in positioning the company to survive and thrive given known and unknown challenges. Security, as generally practiced, provides specific protection against identified or projected circumstances.\n\nProtection is often associated with the set of actions to harden assets to withstand identified contingencies, mitigate the damage, or make them an unattractive target. The focus is to maintain the assets’ core function and ward off harm. Typically, protection performance objectives are stated as an absolute capability against varying levels of threat (category II or greater hurricane, defined types of breaches, specific acts). Organizations plan for protection against specific threats or categories of threats. Resilience approaches the issue from a standpoint of taking reasonable protective actions, but having alternative capabilities as needed or the ability to withstand the disruption.\n\nCrisis management generally refers to the set of actions and capabilities in place to effectively respond to and contain a situation. The situation can vary from natural, man-made, or environmental challenges, whether internally or externally generated. Most consider crisis management to largely consist of actions that go into play when the crisis occurs and subside after it is considered “over”. There are plans and preparations, but the actions are not often dealt with as part of normal operations. Resilience depends on effective crisis management, but would encourage more prominent treatment of crisis management capabilities throughout the company’s operation than is often the case.\n\nPreparedness consists of the plans of actions for when the disaster or crisis strikes. Preparedness efforts are very specific sets of tactical actions (evacuation plans, sheltering plans, rehearsals, stockpiles, etc.) that the company and individuals will take to mitigate the effects of predicted disasters/crises. Resilience requires prudent and serious attention to preparations for known likely disasters, particularly those that are highly likely (e.g., hurricanes in Florida). Resiliency would address preparedness as a specific emergency management business function; but more importantly, as being impacted by numerous functions across the organization. These may include human resources, strategic planning, financial management, information technology, and risk management.\n\nRisk management consists of formal processes to identify threats and vulnerabilities to the company, and the mitigation approaches it will employ. Risk management is highly sophisticated and the results have application in managing the business, insurance coverage, and in attracting investors. The risk management profession is moving toward a more proactive and return on investment focus, but the traditional focus has been defensive in nature. Identifying and managing risks, particularly operational risks, is arguably the most important factor in achieving resilience; however, it is one of many factors. Resiliency has a healthy consideration of posturing for future opportunities. That is not a traditional consideration in risk management.\n\nSome scholars have identified the four facets of resilience as preparedness, protection, response and recovery. Other countries, such as the United Kingdom and Australia, are adopting the resilience concept.\nIn the United Kingdom, resilience is implemented locally by the Local Resilience Forum.\n\nAs part of the Canterbury University Resilient Organisations programme, ResOrgs have developed a tool for benchmarking the Resilience of Organisations.\n\nThe Resilience Diagnostic is an assessment made up of 11 categories, each evaluated by a set of 5 to 7 questions. These categories are defined as either asset or liability. A person’s resilience is determined by the sum of all asset scores divided by the sum of all liability scores, producing a Resilience Ratio. The Resilience Ratio can be reflected both on an organizational and individual level and the assessment provides self-coaching options for participants. Developed in 2011 by The Resilience Institute, the Resilience Diagnostic has been used by corporations worldwide, with key insights reflected in the Global Resilience Report 2016. \n\nIn Organizational Studies, resilience is often referred to as the maintenance of positive adjustment under challenging conditions. Here, resilience emerges as the response to specific interruptions of the normal. Sutcliffe and Vogus argue that resilience should rather be viewed from a developmental perspective, as an ability that develops over time from continually handling risks. Resilience, then, is \"the continuing ability to use internal and external resources successfully to resolve new issues\". Thus, \"resilience is the capacity to rebound from adversity strengthened and more resourceful\".\n\nASIS International have developed and published the definitive Organizational Resilience Management Standard SPC.1-2009. Approved by ANSI and adopted by the Department of Homeland Security under the PS-Prep program, this American Standard provides a practical basis for implementation of preparedness objectives supported by ASIS ORMS (Organizational Resilience Management System) software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25480", "title": "Richard Petty", "text": "Richard Petty\n\nRichard Lee Petty (born July 2, 1937), nicknamed The King, is a former NASCAR driver and voice actor who raced in the Strictly Stock/Grand National Era and the NASCAR Winston Cup Series. He won the NASCAR Championship seven times (Dale Earnhardt and Jimmie Johnson are the only other drivers to accomplish this feat), winning a record 200 races during his career, winning the Daytona 500 a record seven times, and winning a record 27 races (10 of them consecutively) in the 1967 season alone. Statistically, he is the most accomplished driver in the history of the sport and is one of the most respected figures in motorsports as a whole. He also collected a record number of poles (127) and over 700 Top 10 finishes in his 1,184 starts, including 513 consecutive starts from 1971–1989. Petty was the only driver to ever win in his 500th race start, until Matt Kenseth joined him in 2013. He was inducted into the inaugural class of the NASCAR Hall of Fame in 2010.\n\nPetty is a second generation driver. His father, Lee Petty, won the first Daytona 500 in 1959 and was also a three-time NASCAR champion. His son Kyle was also a NASCAR driver. His grandson, Adam (Kyle's son), was killed in a practice crash at New Hampshire International Speedway on May 12, 2000, five weeks after Lee's death. Adam's brother Austin works on day-to-day operations of the Victory Junction Gang Camp, a Hole in the Wall Gang Camp established by the Pettys after Adam's death. Petty married Lynda Owens in 1958. She died on March 25, 2014 at her home in Level Cross, North Carolina at age 72, after a long battle with cancer. They had four children—Kyle Petty, Sharon Petty-Farlow, Lisa Petty-Luck, and Rebecca Petty-Moffit. The family resides in Petty's home town of Level Cross, North Carolina and operates Richard Petty Motorsports. The Richard Petty Museum was formerly in nearby Randleman, North Carolina but moved back to its original location in March 2014.\n\nPetty was born in Level Cross, North Carolina, the son of Elizabeth (née Toomes) and Lee Arnold Petty, also a NASCAR driver, and the older brother of NASCAR personality Maurice Petty. He began his NASCAR career on July 18, 1958, 16 days after his 21st birthday. His first race was held at CNE Stadium in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In 1959, he was named NASCAR Rookie of the Year, after he produced 9 top 10 finishes, including six Top 5 finishes. In Lakewood, Georgia in 1959, Petty won his first race, but his father Lee protested, complaining of a scoring error on the officials' part. Hours later, Lee was awarded the win.\n\nIn 1960, he finished 2nd in the NASCAR Grand National Points Race, and got his first career win at the Charlotte Fairgrounds Speedway. 1963 was his breakout year, winning at tracks like Martinsville and Bridgehampton. In 1964, driving a potent Plymouth with a new Hemi engine, Petty led 184 of the 200 laps to capture his first Daytona 500, en route to 9 victories, earning over $114,000 and his first Grand National championship.\n\nJoining in the Chrysler boycott of NASCAR due to the organizing body's ban of the Hemi engine, Petty spent much of 1965 competing as a drag racer. Petty Enterprises installed the Hemi in the new compact Barracuda and lettered \"OUTLAWED\" on the door. He crashed this car at Southeastern Dragway, in Dallas, Georgia, on February 28, 1965, killing a six-year-old boy and injuring seven others. Petty, his father Lee, and Chrysler Corporation faced lawsuits totaling more than $1 million, though Petty and his team came to settlements with the lawsuits within 1 month of the suits being filed. Afterwards, a second Hemi Barracuda was built, this time with an altered wheelbase and eventually with Hilborn fuel injection. This car was lettered with a large \"43 JR\" on the door. The car was very successful, winning its class at the Bristol Spring Nationals and competing in many match races against well known racers such as Ronnie Sox, Don Nicholson, Phil Bonner, Huston Platt, Hubert Platt and Dave Strickler. Even after returning to NASCAR once the Hemi was reinstated, Richard continued drag racing the 43 JR until early 1966.\n\nOn February 27, 1966, Richard Petty overcame a 2-lap deficit to win his second Daytona 500 when the race was stopped on lap 198 of 200 because of a thunderstorm. This made him the first driver to win the event twice. 1967 was a milestone year. In that year, Petty won 27 of the 48 races he entered, including a record 10 wins in a row (between August 12 and October 1, 1967). He won his second Grand National Championship. One of the 27 victories was the Southern 500 at Darlington, which would be his only Southern 500 victory. His dominance in this season earned him the nickname \"King Richard\". He had previously been known as \"the Randleman Rocket\".\n\nIn 1969, Petty switched brands to Ford, due to his belief the Plymouth was not competitive on super-speedways; he wanted a slippery Dodge Daytona but Chrysler executives insisted he stay with Plymouth. He would win 10 races and finish second in points. Won back in 1970 by the sleek new Plymouth Superbird with shark nose and towel rack wing, Petty returned to Plymouth for the 1970 season. This is the car in which Petty is cast in the Pixar film \"Cars\" (2006), in which Richard and Lynda Petty had voice roles.\n\nOn February 14, 1971, Petty won his third Daytona 500, driving a brand-new (for 1971) Plymouth Road Runner and beating Buddy Baker, by little more than a car length en route to another historic year, making him the first driver to win the race 3 times. He won 20 more races (which would make him become the first driver to earn more than $1 million in career earnings) and claimed his 3rd Grand National Championship. At the end of the 1971 season, Chrysler told the Pettys they no longer would receive direct factory funding support; this gave the Petty team great concern. In 1972, STP began what would turn into a successful 28-year sponsorship arrangement with Petty, however it marked the end of his famous all \"Petty Blue\" paint job. STP previously insisted on an all STP orangish-red color for the cars, but Petty balked and after an all-night negotiation session, the familiar STP orange/\"Petty blue\" paint scheme was agreed to as a compromise that would find its way to all STP racing operations, most notably Gordon Johncock's win in the 1982 Indianapolis 500. Thanks to his 28 Top 10 finishes (25 Top 5 finishes and 8 victories), Petty went on to win his 4th NASCAR Cup Series championship. 1972 was a year of change in other ways, as it was the last year where Petty would campaign a Plymouth-based race car; as in the middle of the year, he debuted to drive a newly built 1972 Dodge Charger in a few races (winning one of them), as he believed that the car would have a slight aero advantage over the Plymouth body style. In a driver's duel on February 18, 1973, Petty, in a newly built 1973 Dodge Charger (a body style he would use exclusively until the end of 1977), outlasted Baker (now with the K&K Insurance Dodge race team) to win his 4th Daytona 500 after Baker's engine gave out with 6 laps to go. A year later, Petty won the Daytona \"450\" (shortened 20 laps {50 mi/80 km} due to the energy crisis) for the fifth time en route to his 5th Winston Cup Championship.\n\n1975 was another historic year for Petty, as he won the World 600 for the first time in his career, one of 13 victories en route to his 6th Winston Cup. The 13 victories is a modern (1972–present) NASCAR record for victories in a season, and was tied in 1998 by Jeff Gordon, although Gordon won 13 out of 33 races, compared to Petty's 13 out of 30 races. In 1976, Petty was involved in one of the most famous finishes in NASCAR history. Petty and David Pearson were racing on the last lap out of turn 4 in the Daytona 500. As Petty tried to pass Pearson, at the exit of turn 4, Petty's right rear bumper hit Pearson's left front bumper. Pearson and Petty both spun and hit the front stretch wall. Petty's car came to rest just yards from the finish line, but his engine stalled. Pearson's car had hit the front stretch wall and clipped another car, but his engine was running. Members of Petty's pit crew came out onto the track and tried to push the car to the finish line, but ultimately failed. Pearson was able to drive his car toward the finish line, while Petty's car would not restart. Pearson passed Petty on the infield grass and won the Daytona 500. Petty was given credit for second place.\n\nOddly 1978 will stand out as the one year during his prime that Petty did not visit the winners circle. The Petty Enterprises Team could not get the new 1978 Dodge Magnum to handle properly, even though much time, effort, and faith were spent massaging the cars. Unhappy with the seven top-five and eleven top ten finishes (including two-second places), Petty decided that his longtime relationship with Chrysler could not continue and he instead began racing a secondhand 1974 Chevrolet Monte Carlo at the fall race at Michigan. Returning to the General Motors fold proved successful as Petty recorded six top ten finishes in the final ten races of the 1978 season and finished sixth in the final standings. He would go on to even better results in 1979. Petty won the Daytona 500 in an Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme and ran most of the remaining races in a Chevrolet, winning four additional races and taking the NASCAR championship for the seventh, and last, time by 11 points which was the closest points margin in NASCAR history until 1992.\n\nPetty won two more Daytona 500s in 1979 and 1981. In 1979, he snapped a 45-race drought, winning his sixth Daytona 500, the first to be televised live flag-to-flag; it would become notorious for a fistfight between competitors following the controversial finish. Petty won the race as the first and second place cars of Donnie Allison and Cale Yarborough crashed on the last lap. Petty held off Darrell Waltrip and A. J. Foyt. The race is also regarded as being the genesis of the current surge in NASCAR's popularity. The East Coast was snowed in by a blizzard, giving CBS a captive audience. The win was part of Petty's seventh and last NASCAR Winston Cup Championship. He was able to hold off Waltrip to win the title in 1979.\n\nFor 1981, NASCAR dictated that all teams had to show up with the new downsized cars of 110\" wheel-base, that Detroit had been building since 1979. Though Petty had been successful with the Chevrolet and Oldsmobile cars he had been running, he wanted to get back to his Mopar roots. After taking a phone call from Lee Iacocca (who personally asked Petty to campaign a Dodge for 1981), the Petty team built a stunning 1981 Dodge Mirada and took it to Daytona in January 1981 for high speed tests. Petty's fans were also in a large part fans of his Dodges, so when word got out about the Mirada testing, 15,000 or so showed up on January 17, 1981 at Daytona Speedway to watch Petty put the Dodge through its paces. Sadly for the fans, the car could do no better than 186 miles per hour, about eight miles per hour slower than the GM and Ford cars. Petty gave up on returning to Dodge knowing that for the superspeedways the Mirada would not be competitive, and bought a Buick Regal for the Daytona race. In the 1981 Daytona 500, Petty used a \"fuel only\" for his last pit stop, with 25 laps to go, to outfox Bobby Allison and grab his seventh and final Daytona 500 win. This win marked a large change in Petty's racing team. Dale Inman, Petty's longtime crew chief, left the team after the Daytona victory (Inman would win an eighth championship as crew chief in 1984 with Terry Labonte).\n\nWhile the 1981 season gave Petty 3 wins, he felt the season was a failure, and the Regals being ill-handling and poor in reliability. For 1982, he made the move to the Pontiac Grand Prix, with the promise of substantial factory support from Pontiac. 1982 was a repeat of 1978, and no victories were to be had. At first, the Grand Prix behaved much like the Dodge Magnum of 1978, with handling and speed problems. Toward the end of 1982 things improved with several top-10 finishes, which opened the door to a successful 1983 season with three victories, and several top-5 and top-10 finishes. In 1983, he broke his 43-race winless streak from 1982 with a win in the 1983 Carolina 500, barely edging out a young Bill Elliott. After a controversial win at Charlotte in October 1983 (win No. 198), Petty left the race team his father founded for the 1984 season. He spent '84 and '85 driving for Mike Curb before returning to Petty Enterprises in 1986.\n\nOn July 4, 1984, Petty won his 200th (and what would turn to be his final victory) race at the Firecracker 400 at Daytona International Speedway. The race was memorable: On lap 158, Doug Heveron crashed, bringing out the yellow caution flag, essentially turning lap 158 into the last lap as the two drivers battled back to the start-finish line. Petty and Cale Yarborough diced it out on that lap, with Yarborough drafting and taking an early lead before Petty managed to cross the start/finish line only a fender-length ahead. (This is no longer possible because of the 2003 rule change freezing the field immediately upon caution. Furthermore, the green-white-checkered rule was created for if the yellow flag waves with two laps remaining, but not with one lap remaining.) President Ronald Reagan was in attendance, the first sitting president to attend a NASCAR race. Reagan celebrated the milestone with Petty and his family in victory lane.\n\nIn early 1988, Petty travelled to Australia to help promote a NASCAR exhibition race at the then new Calder Park Thunderdome, the first NASCAR race outside of North America. While he did not compete in the tracks inaugural race, the Goodyear NASCAR 500 (though his son Kyle did), in testing at the 1.119 mi (1.801 km) track which owner Bob Jane had modelled on the Charlotte Motor Speedway, Richard Petty set an unofficial lap record of 28.2 seconds (142.85 mp/h). This would have in fact landed him on pole position for the race as the fastest time in official qualifying was by Alabama Gang member Neil Bonnett who recorded a 28.829-second lap (139.734 mp/h) in his Pontiac Grand Prix.\n\nOn October 1, 1991, Petty announced he would retire after the 1992 season. Petty's final top ten finish came at the 1991 Budweiser at the Glen which was the same race J. D. McDuffie was killed in a fifth lap accident. Petty chose to run the entire 1992 season, not just selected events as other drivers have done before retirement. His year-long Fan Appreciation Tour took him around the country, participating in special events, awards ceremonies, and fan-related meetings. Racing Champions ran a promotional line of diecast cars for every race in Petty's Farewell Tour. In his final year behind the wheel, he had two notable races.\n\nAt the 1992 Pepsi 400 on July 4, Petty qualified second. Before the start of the race, he was honored with a gift ceremony which included a visit from President George H. W. Bush. At the start, Petty led the first five laps, but dropped out on lap 84 due to fatigue.\n\nDespite the tremendously busy appearance schedule, and mediocre race results, Petty managed to qualify for all 29 races in 1992. On his final visit to each track, Petty would lead the field on the pace lap to salute the fans. Petty's final race was the season-ending Hooters 500 at Atlanta Motor Speedway. The race was notable in that it was the first career start for Jeff Gordon, and it was the second closest points championship in NASCAR history, with six drivers mathematically eligible to win the championship. A record 160,000 spectators attended the race, which went down to the final lap with Bill Elliott winning the race, and Alan Kulwicki winning the championship by 10 points over Elliott after Davey Allison dropped out early after a crash.\n\nFacing intense pressure, Petty barely managed to qualify at Atlanta, posting the 39th fastest speed out of 41 cars. He would not have been eligible for the provisional starting position, and had to qualify on speed. On the 94th lap, Petty became tangled up in an accident, and his car caught fire. Petty pulled the car off the track, and climbed out of the burning machine uninjured. His pit crew worked diligently with less than 20 laps to go to get the car running again, and with two laps to go, Petty pulled out of the pits and was credited as running at the finish in his final race. He took his final checkered flag finishing in 35th position. After the race, Petty circled the track to salute the fans one final time in his trademark STP Pontiac.\n\nThe following year, he was back into a race car one more time. On August 18, 1993, NASCAR participated in a tire test at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, in preparations for the 1994 Brickyard 400. Petty drove several laps around the track, and then donated his car to the Speedway's museum.\n\nPetty would again step into a race car in 2003 on the week of the final race under the Winston banner at Homestead-Miami Speedway and took a solo lap honoring his seven Winston Cup Championships for Winston's salute to the champions.\n\nIn 2009 at the Coke Zero 400 in Daytona, for the 25th anniversary of his final, 200th victory in 1984, Petty was behind the wheel of one of his 1980s Pontiac racecars during the pace laps, leading the field for the first pace lap. The field split him and he followed behind the field for one more pace lap before he pulled it in.\n\nIn later years of his career, Petty developed the career of crew leader Robbie Loomis, who was at the helm of Petty Enterprises as crew chief in the 1990s, and won three races—the 1996 Checker Auto Parts 500 at Phoenix, the 1997 ACDelco 400 at North Carolina Speedway, both with Bobby Hamilton driving, and the 1999 Goody's Body Pain 500 at Martinsville Speedway, with John Andretti driving.\n\nHe remained as operating owner until his son Kyle Petty took over day-to-day operations a decade later.\n\nHowever, in 2008, Kyle Petty was released by Petty Enterprises, and due to lack of sponsorship, Petty Enterprises was bought out by Gillett-Evernham Motorsports. The name was originally going to stay the same, but due to Evernham leaving the team, it was renamed Richard Petty Motorsports, despite George Gillett continuing to own the majority of the team.\n\nIn November 2010, an investment group including Medallion Financial Corp., Douglas G. Bergeron and Petty, signed and closed sale on racing assets of Richard Petty Motorsports. Andrew M. Murstein, president of Medallion, had been seeking a sports investment since 2008 when he formed a special purpose acquisition company together with Hank Aaron, a Medallion board member, and others.\n\nIn 1995, Petty moved to the television broadcast booth joining CBS as a color commentator immediately following his retirement, but his career in television did not last long.\n\nPetty promised his mother not to accept alcohol sponsorship. Therefore, he never collected purses for the Bud Pole Award, and competed at the Busch Clash only once, in 1980.\n\nAs well as his numerous victories, Petty is also remembered for three of the many incredible crashes that he survived:\n\n\nPetty is currently a spokesman for Liberty Medical, Cheerios and GlaxoSmithKline products Nicorette and Goody's Headache Powder. He had also been featured on Brawny towels during a limited time when the company replaced their image with several \"real Brawny men\". Petty and his son Kyle have lent their talent to host \"Lifting It Right\" a lift safety training DVD produced and distributed by the Automotive Lift Institute (ALI); it is used in high school vocational programs and community colleges. He has recorded public service announcements for Civitan International, a nonprofit organization of which he is a former member. He is usually seen wearing his trademark sunglasses and a Charlie 1 Horse cowboy hat, with a large snakeskin hat band and a plume of rooster feathers at the front.\n\nPetty has established a summer camp known as \"Victory Junction\", which is intended to give seriously ill children the outdoors experience and experience of summer camp, and is staffed by round the clock medical staff to be on hand in case of emergencies.\nPetty has been a long-time Republican, and in June 2016 he made an appearance on stage with Donald Trump. In 1996, he was the Republican nominee for North Carolina Secretary of State, but was defeated by State Senator Elaine Marshall in the general election. Petty was mistakenly seen as a shoo-in and his campaigning was sporadic. Following his loss, Petty stated \"If I had known I wasn't going to win, I wouldn't have run.\" A cereal \"43's\" was created with Petty information on the boxes. Petty also played himself in the 2008 film \"Swing Vote\", where he commends the film's protagonist by allowing him to briefly drive his famous \"43\" Plymouth.\n\nAfter retirement, Petty purchased a 90-acre (36 ha) ranch south of Jackson, Wyoming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21189807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21189807", "title": "Steven Joyce", "text": "Steven Joyce\n\nSteven Leonard Joyce (born 7 April 1963) is a former New Zealand politician, who entered the New Zealand House of Representatives in 2008 as a member of the New Zealand National Party. In the same year he became Minister of Transport and Minister for Communications and Information Technology. He later became Minister of Science and Innovation, and then served as Minister for Finance and Minister for Infrastructure.\n\nAs a broadcasting entrepreneur with RadioWorks, he was a millionaire before he entered politics.\n\nOn 6 March 2018, he announced his resignation from politics.\n\nJoyce's parents worked as grocers. He went to school at Francis Douglas Memorial College, before enrolling at Massey University, applying to study veterinary science. However he \"missed the cut\", graduating instead with a BSc in zoology. While at university he worked as a presenter and programme director on student radio. He also took eleven economics papers at Massey from 1984 to 1986 and failed eight of these through insufficient grade, withdrawal, or failure to complete.\n\nAfter leaving university Joyce and a group of friends (including radio presenter Jeremy Corbett) started their own radio station, Energy FM, in New Plymouth. With business partners, he built up RadioWorks over the next seventeen years, both organically and by acquisition, to a network of 22 radio stations and 650 staff. He retired as Managing Director of RadioWorks in April 2001, when CanWest purchased it, Joyce receiving $6 million for the sale.\n\nAfter RadioWorks he joined the New Zealand National Party, working as their campaign manager in both the 2005 and the 2008 general elections. He also served as CEO of Jasons Travel Media for two years until 2008.\n\nIn 2010 while Minister of Transport, Joyce admitted to two prior driving convictions, careless driving resulting in a fine in 1988, and careless driving causing injury resulting in a fine and loss of licence in 1989.\n\nOn 8 November 2008, Joyce was elected as a list-only candidate (ranked 16th on the party list) at the 2008 election in the Fifth National Government of New Zealand of the 49th Parliament of New Zealand representing the New Zealand National Party.\n\nAs a first term MP, Joyce was appointed to the office of the Minister of Transport and the office of the Communications and Information Technology. Joyce was also appointed as a member of the Executive Council and was titled as The Honourable Steven Leonard Joyce, MP. During his tenure as Minister of Transport a number of changes were introduced. In November 2009 a ban on using cellphones while driving came into effect.\n\nIn 2010, New Zealand's unique right-hand rule at intersections was reversed. The minimum driving age was also raised from 15 to 16. Both measures were subject to cabinet approval and public consultation, and eventually passed into law.\n\nThis minimum driving age proposal was criticised by the editorial board of \"The New Zealand Herald\" for being too hesitant after experts and the public had favoured raising the driving age as high as 18 and in the opinion of the newspaper, Joyce \"had not shown the resolve to follow the recommendations\".\n\nHe helped create Auckland Transport as a council-controlled organisation for Auckland. Joyce stated that \"Auckland will need a good agency focused on delivering the projects that have been agreed by council\" and noting that Council had a number of ways of ensuring that the entity was accountable.\n\nJoyce was also appointed to the Office of Minister for Tertiary Education, Skills and Employment replacing Anne Tolley, effective 27 January 2010.\n\nIn the 2011 election for the 50th New Zealand Parliament Joyce retained his seat in Parliament (as a list candidate, now rated 13th on the party list) and was appointed to the office of Minister for Economic Development. in the Fifth National Government of New Zealand. His previous role as Minister of Transport passed to Gerry Brownlee.\n\nIn May 2013, he signed a deal with casino Skycity Auckland, allowing it to install an additional 230 pokie machines and 40 new gambling tables, in exchange for building a $402 million convention centre.\n\nAs of August 2013 he was given responsibility to investigate both the Novopay debacle and the 2013 Fonterra recall.\n\nA dildo was thrown at him during an anti-TPPA protest at the 2016 Waitangi Day celebrations while he was speaking to media. The protester responsible, Josie Butler, a nurse from Christchurch, shouted \"That’s for raping our sovereignty\". She claimed she was protesting against the TPPA. She was taken away by police, but not charged.\n\nOn 20 December 2016, Joyce was appointed as Minister of Finance and Infrastructure. During the lead-up to the 2017 general election, Joyce alleged that there was an NZ$11 billion hole in the opposition Labour Party's fiscal plan. These charges were disputed by Labour politicians including Opposition Leader Jacinda Ardern and Deputy Leader Kelvin Davis.\n\nDuring the 2017 election, Joyce stood on the National Party list and was re-elected. National won 44% of the popular vote and 56 seats; maintaining its plurality in the New Zealand House of Representatives. However, National fell short of the majority needed to govern alone. Following post-election negotiations, Labour formed a coalition government with the opposition New Zealand First and Green parties.\n\nFollowing the formation of a Labour-led coalition government, Joyce became the National Party's Spokesperson for Finance and Infrastructure. He was also allocated a seat on the Finance and Expenditure Select Committee. On 6 March 2018, Joyce announced he would resign from Parliament.\n\nJoyce lives in Albany with his wife Suzanne and their two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "21387010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21387010", "title": "Stewart's Department Store", "text": "Stewart's Department Store\n\nStewart's Department Store, also known as the Posner Building, is a historic department store building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Catholic Relief Services is currently headquartered there.\n\nThe Stewart's Department Store structure was designed in 1899 by Charles E. Cassell and is a six-story brick and terra cotta steel-framed building detailed in a highly ornate Italian Renaissance Revival style. It features an exuberant ornamental detail includes fluted Ionic and Corinthian columns, lion heads, caryatids, wreaths, garlands, cartouches, and an elaborate bracketed cornice.\n\nThis building served as the flagship store for Stewart's Baltimore operations and anchored Baltimore's premier downtown retail location at Lexington and Howard Streets.\n\nStewart's Department Store Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "20033285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20033285", "title": "Trygve Bruvik", "text": "Trygve Bruvik\n\nTrygve Bruvik (born 1952) is a Norwegian engineer and businessperson.\n\nBruvik was educated with an engineering degree from Bergen College of Engineering, as well as a business administration degree from BI Norwegian Business School. He worked for Vesta Forsikring from 1981, and was chief executive officer from 1994 to 2002. Since 2003 he has been chair of Marine Farms.\n"}
{"id": "19425487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19425487", "title": "Walid Chammah", "text": "Walid Chammah\n\nWalid A. Chammah (born April 12, 1954, Lebanon) is a former Morgan Stanley executive. He was Chairman of Morgan Stanley International and served as a member of the Morgan Stanley Management and Operating Committees. In January 2012, the company announced internally that Chammah was retiring and would become a senior advisor to the firm.\n\nBetween September 2007 and December 2009, Chammah was Co-President of Morgan Stanley, overseeing the Firm's Institutional Securities business and operations. He was based in London.\n\nChammah is a private advisor to Igor Sechin, president of Rosneft. Chammah is chairman of Rosneft’s Management Board and a member of the Supervisory Board of Rosneft Bank.\n\nA native of Lebanon, Chammah graduated from the American University of Beirut with a Bachelor of Business Administration in 1976. He emigrated to the United States in 1976 and received a master's degree in International Management from American Graduate School of International Management in 1977.\n\nChammah joined Morgan Stanley in 1993 as Head of U.S. Debt Capital Markets. In 1996, he was promoted to Worldwide Head of Debt Capital Markets Services. In 2001, Chammah's responsibilities were extended to include Worldwide Leveraged Finance and in 2002, he formed and was Head of the Global Capital Markets Group, which combined the Firm's debt and equity capital markets activities. In 2005, Chammah was named Global Head of Investment Banking and in September 2007 he was named Co-President of the firm, a position he held until December 2009.\n\nBefore joining Morgan Stanley, Chammah was a managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston, responsible for U.S. Taxable Fixed Income Capital Markets and Structured Finance Groups. Earlier in his career, Chammah worked for the First Boston Corporation and Blyth Eastman PaineWebber.\n\nChammah married Karin Zumtobel of Bregenz, Austria on July 12, 1999. They have four children: Alexandra Roosevelt Chammah (The George Washington University), Isabella \"Issy\" Roosevelt Chammah (Duke University), Anthony A. Chammah (Duke University) and Luca Jürg Chammah (Lycée Français Charles de Gaulle)\n\nAnthony A. Chammah is an associate with Colliers International Occupier Services practice group. Before joining Colliers, Anthony began his career at Younger Partners’ as an analyst becoming Younger Partners’ go-to for extensive market and tenant research as well as the leasing of office product. Anthony quickly advanced to an associate role, helping tenants and buyers with their real estate needs.\n"}
{"id": "48933956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48933956", "title": "Özalp Özer", "text": "Özalp Özer\n\nÖzalp Özer Ph.D. is an American business professor specializing in pricing science and operations research. He is the Ashbel Smith Professor of Management Science at the Naveen Jindal School of Management and also currently serves as an affiliated faculty at the MIT Sloan School of Management.\n\nOriginally from Turkey, Özer attended Bilkent University, where he earned an undergraduate degree in Industrial Engineering in 1996. He then attended Columbia University where he received master's degrees in Operations Research and Financial Engineering, as well as a Ph.D. in Operations Research.\n\nAfter receiving his Ph.D. in 2000, Özer worked as an assistant professor in the Management Science and Engineering Department at Stanford University until 2007. During this time he was awarded the Wickham Skinner Early-Career Research Accomplishment Award by the Informs Manufacturing and Service Operations Management (M&SOM) journal as well as the Eugene L. Grant Award for Excellence in Teaching at Stanford in 2004 and 2005. After working as an associate professor at Columbia University, he then took a position at the University of Texas at Dallas, at which time he was increasingly active in the M&SOM research community, receiving the M&SOM Meritorious Services Award in both 2011 and 2012.\n\nWhile at the Naveen Jindal School of Management his research interest began to focus on behavioral factors and influences in supply chains. In 2013 his work was recognized as Runner-Up for the Behavioral Operations Management Society Best Working Paper Award. In 2014, Özer was awarded the Best Paper Award by Management Science for his research in Trust in Forecast Information Sharing.\n\nÖzer is currently one of the associate editors for the journals Management Science and Operations Research. Özer is also co-editor, along with Robert Phillips, of \"The Oxford Handbook of Pricing Management\".\n"}
