{"id": "18933105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933105", "title": "Abandonment (legal)", "text": "Abandonment (legal)\n\nIn law, abandonment is the relinquishment, giving up or renunciation of an interest, claim, civil proceedings, appeal, privilege, possession, or right, especially with the intent of never again resuming or reasserting it. Such intentional action may take the form of a discontinuance or a waiver. This broad meaning has a number of applications in different branches of law. In common law jurisdictions, both \"common law abandonment\" and \"statutory abandonment\" of property may be recognized.\n\nCommon law abandonment is \"the relinquishment of a right [in property] by the owner thereof without any regard to future possession by himself or any other person, and with the intention to or desert the right...\" or \"the voluntary relinquishment of a thing by its owner with the intention of terminating his ownership, and without [the intention of] vesting ownership in any other person; the giving up of a thing absolutely, without reference to any particular person or purpose...\" By contrast, an example of statutory abandonment (albeit in a common law jurisdiction) is the abandonment by a bankruptcy trustee under .\n\nIn Scots law, failure to assert a legal right in a way that implies abandonment of that property is called \"taciturnity\", while the term \"abandonment\" in Scots law refers specifically to a procedure by which a party gives up civil proceedings or an appeal.\n\nIntentional abandonment is also referred to as \"dereliction\", and something voluntarily abandoned by its owner with the intention of not retaking it is a \"derelict\". Someone that holds the property or to whom property rights have been relinquished is an abandonee. An item that has been abandoned is termed an abandum. A res nullius abandoned by its owner, leaving it vacant, belongs to no one.\n\n\nThe relinquishment by a nonuser, for a specified period, of some accommodation or right in another's land, such as right-of-way or free access of light and air.\n\nOccurs when one ceases to reside permanently in a former domicile, coupled with the intention of choosing a new domicile. The presumptions which will guide the court in deciding whether a former domicile has been abandoned or not must be inferred from the facts of each case. In the United States, a tenant is generally understood to have abandoned a property if he or she has fallen behind in rent and shown a lack of interest in continuing to live there. The landlord must then send notice of the intent to seize the property and wait a certain number of days to take action on it. How long the landlord has to wait depends on the value of the property. The landlord can keep the money up to the costs incurred as a result of the abandonment; the rest must be set aside for the former tenant, should she or he eventually return.\n\nAbandonment occurs when the insured surrenders to the insurer all rights to damaged or lost property and claims payment for a total loss. Sometimes, this is permitted only when damage constitutes constructive total loss. In marine insurance parlance, abandonment involves the surrender of a ship or goods to the insurer, who becomes the abandonee. Abandonment can also mean refusal to accept from a delivering carrier a shipment so damaged in transit as to be worthless.\n\nAbandonment is recognized as the explicit release of material by a copyright holder into the public domain. However, statutory abandonment is legally a tricky issue which has little relevant case precedent to establish how an artist can abandon their copyright during their lifetime. The more common approach is to license work under a scheme that provides for public use rather than strictly abandoning copyright.\n\nCopyright protection attaches to a work as soon as it is fixed in a tangible medium, whether the copyright holder desires this protection or not. Before the Copyright Act of 1976 an artist could abandon or forfeit their copyright by neglecting to comply with the relevant formalities. Difficulty arises when one tries to apply the doctrine of abandonment to present-day concerns regarding the abandonment or gifting of a digitized work to the public domain. The abandonment of a work is difficult to prove in court, though Learned Hand proposed a test which parallels other forms of abandonment law wherein an author or copyright holder could abandon their work if they intend to abandon it and commit an overt act to make public that intention. \nAbandonment of trademark is understood to happen when a trademark is not used for three or more years, or when it is deliberately discontinued; trademark law protects only trademarks being actively used and defended.\n\nAbandonment is relinquishment by an inventor of the right to secure a patent, in such a way as to constitute a dedication of the invention to public use. Under United States patent law, abandonment of a patent application occurs when either the required reply is not filed within the required time period or an express abandonment is filed.\n\nAbandonment is permission sought by or granted to a carrier by a state or federal agency to cease operation of all or part of a route or service. This has a legal signification in England recognized by statute, by authority of which the Board of Trade may, under certain circumstances, grant a warrant to a railway authorizing the abandonment of its line or part of it. Likewise, in the United States, the Surface Transportation Board grants permission to abandon railway lines.\n\nThe abandonment of a military unit by a soldier, a Marine, or an airman; or of a ship or a naval base by a sailor; can be called desertion; and being away from one's assigned location for a significant length of time can be called \"\", \"\", or \"Dereliction of duty\". However, the term \"Dereliction of Duty\" also includes the offenses of being present but not carrying out one's assigned duties and responsibilities with the expected amount of effort, alertness, carefulness, ingenuity, and sense of duty.\n\nAbandonment of contract means failure to fulfil a contractual obligation, which will affect the abandoner's entitlement to the contractually agreed consideration, for example in the case of \"Sumpter v Hedges\" (1898).\n\nDesertion refers to intentional and substantial abandonment, permanently or for a period of time stated by law, without legal excuse and without consent, of one's duties arising out of a status such as that of husband and wife or parent and child. It can involve desertion of a spouse with the intention of creating a permanent separation. Desertion of one spouse by the other without just cause is called malicious abandonment. Child abandonment is often recognized as a crime, in which case the child is usually not physically harmed directly as part of the abandonment. Child abandonment is also called \"exposure\" or \"exposition\", especially when an infant is left in the open.\nIn medicine, abandonment occurs when a health care professional (usually a physician, nurse, dentist, or paramedic) has already begun emergency treatment of a patient, and then suddenly walks away while the patient is still in need, without securing the services of an adequate substitute or giving the patient adequate opportunity to find one. It is a crime in many countries and can result in the loss of one's license to practice. Also, because of the public policy in favor of keeping people alive, the professional cannot defend himself or herself by pointing to the patient's inability to pay for services; this opens the medical professional to the possibility of exposure to malpractice liability beyond one's insurance coverage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53139262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53139262", "title": "Aingeal Ní Chualáin", "text": "Aingeal Ní Chualáin\n\nAingeal Ní Chualáin, Irish writer.\n\nA native of Carna, County Galway, Ní Chualáin is a poet, and the author of \" Tomás Bairéad: Rogha Scéalta\".\n\n"}
{"id": "74421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74421", "title": "Alternation (linguistics)", "text": "Alternation (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, an alternation is the phenomenon of a morpheme exhibiting variation in its phonological realization. Each of the various realizations is called an alternant. The variation may be conditioned by the phonological, morphological, and/or syntactic environment in which the morpheme finds itself.\n\nAlternations provide linguists with data that allow them to determine the allophones and allomorphs of a language's phonemes and morphemes and to develop analyses determining the distribution of those allophones and allomorphs.\n\nAn example of a phonologically conditioned alternation is the English plural marker commonly spelled \"s\" or \"es\". This morpheme is pronounced , , or , depending on the nature of the preceding sound.\n\n\nFrench has an example of morphologically conditioned alternation. The feminine form of many adjectives ends in a consonant sound that is missing in the masculine form. In spelling, the feminine ends in a silent e, while the masculine ends in a silent consonant letter:\n\nSyntactically conditioned alternations can be found in the Insular Celtic languages, where words undergo various initial consonant mutations depending on their syntactic position. For example, in Irish, an adjective undergoes lenition after a feminine singular noun:\nIn Welsh, a noun undergoes soft mutation when it is the direct object of a finite verb:\n\n"}
{"id": "35328692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35328692", "title": "Bible translations into Tibetan", "text": "Bible translations into Tibetan\n\nThe first portion of the Bible, the Gospel of John, in a Tibetic language was translated by Moravian Church missionaries William Heyde, Edward Pagel, and Heinrich August Jäschke, and later Dr. August Francke. It was printed in 1862 at Kyelang capital of Lahul in Kashmir. The whole New Testament was printed in 1885 in Ladakh. Another version was translated in 1903. So as not to have the problem of various dialectal differences it was translated into classical Tibetan, but this was not understood by most people. Yoseb Gergen (aka Sonam Gergen), a Tibetan Christian translated the entire Bible, complete in 1935. This version was translated into a dialect of Tibetan Gergen had accidentally stumbled across, and which was understandable by all Tibetans. It was finally published in 1948. This is known in India as the Tibetan OV Bible. Eliya Tsetan Phuntshog published a New Testament in 1970. There is currently a project going on to translate the Bible into the East Tibetan dialect. \n\nRecent research has shown there are approximately 50 Tibetan languages and over 200 varieties of Tibetan.\n\nThe complex task of translating the Scriptures into the different varieties of Tibetan is made more difficult by the need to choose between different linguistic registers. These are: the high literary register (the language used for the Tibetan Buddhist scriptures, also known as chos skad); the mid literary register (a mixture of high literary and some known common spoken and non-spoken words); and one of many varieties of the low register (the vernacular/spoken language), which are specific to particular regions. \n\nThere are advantages and disadvantages of translating into each different register. A translation into one of the varieties of the low register will be easily understood in one specific region but its geographical reach will be limited, and it will be seen as less prestigious than the high and mid registers. Mid Literary is more difficult to understand than the spoken language but has a wider geographical reach. The high literary register can reach even further geographically but it requires people first to learn a literary language in order to understand what is written in it.\n\nThe Moravian missionary H. A. Jäschke (1817–1883) spent three months in Ladakh in 1857, and subsequently worked in Keylong (Lahul) until 1868. He studied the spoken languages of the region. However, he decided to translate the New Testament into Classical Tibetan, drawing on the assistance and advice of speakers and scholars of different forms of Tibetan in both the Western Himalayan region and Darjeeling. He hoped that his choice of language would ensure that the written text would be widely understood across Tibet and the Himalayan border regions. \n\nJäschke’s successor F. A. Redslob (1838–1891) completed the translation of the New Testament in 1885. Between 1898 and 1902, a committee chaired by another Moravian missionary A. W. Heyde (1825–1907) prepared a revised version of the Tibetan New Testament under the sponsorship of the British and Foreign Bible Society. Later, Dr A. H. Francke (1870–1930) and his Ladakhi colleague Yoseb Gergan (1878–1946) translated the Old Testament into Classical Tibetan. The draft translation of the Old Testament was completed by 1935, but the full Tibetan Bible was not published until 1948.\n\nIn 1959, Eliyah Tsetan Phuntsog (son-in-law of Yoseb Gergan) started to revise the New Testament with Pierre Vittoz (a Swiss missionary). They translated it into a Mid Literary register, hoping that this would be accessible to the various Tibetan-speaking peoples in both India and Tibet. This version was published in 1970. However, most of the Ladakhis who were not trained in the Literary register found all these versions difficult to understand.\n\nLadakhi is a language spoken in India in regions bordering both China and Pakistan; its neighbouring languages are Purik, Balti, Zanskari, Nubra, and the more divergent Changthang (see map). All these languages are part of the Western Tibetan language grouping and quite distinct from the Central, Amdo and Khams Tibetan spoken varieties. \n\nAlongside his main Tibetan translation work, Jäschke translated the \"Harmony of the Gospels\", a selection of texts used by the Moravian church in Easter Week, into vernacular Ladakhi. He noticed that the Ladakhi Christians were more attentive when listening to the Harmony, than they were when they heard texts written in the High Register of Classical Tibetan.\n\nLike Jäschke, Francke put his main efforts into Bible translation into literary Tibetan. However, he also emphasised the need to translate at least some portions of the Bible into the spoken languages of the region. In 1907, he printed a revised version of Jäschke’s \"Harmony\". He also prepared a Ladakhi \"Life of Christ\", and in 1908, he published a Ladakhi version of Mark's Gospel. Yoseb Gergan produced a revised version of the Ladakhi St Mark, and this was published at Lahore in 1919.\n\nThese early vernacular translations adapted the classical literary spelling system rather than using a phonetic transcription of spoken Ladakhi. In the early 1950s, E. T. Phuntsog experimented with a greatly simplified spelling system for writing Ladakhi. However, he ran into opposition from a segment of the Ladakhi community who wanted to preserve the classical spelling system of the Buddhist Scriptures. Phuntsog translated excerpts from the Gospels of St Mark and St Luke using this script. However, his proposals were never accepted outside the small Christian community, and he was forced to put them on one side.\n\nToday there is an ongoing project to translate the complete Bible into the low register of spoken Ladakhi (Zhung/Leh dialect) using a more phonemic spelling structure. Currently the New Testament and Genesis 1-16 have been completed.\n"}
{"id": "29762299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29762299", "title": "Campaign rhetoric of Barack Obama", "text": "Campaign rhetoric of Barack Obama\n\nThe campaign rhetoric of Barack Obama is the rhetoric in the campaign speeches given by President of the United States, Barack Obama, between February 10, 2007 and November 5, 2008 for the 2008 presidential campaign. Obama became the 44th president after George W. Bush with running mate Joe Biden. In his campaign rhetoric, Obama used three main devices: motifs, American exceptionalism, and voicing.\n\n\nA motif is a rhetorical device that involves the repeated presence of a concept, which heightens its importance in a speech and draws attention to the idea. Obama's motifs became so recognizable that the main motifs, change and hope, became the themes for the 2008 presidential campaign of every candidate, from Senator Hillary Clinton and Senator John McCain.\n\nChange was Obama's fundamental motif in his campaign for Republican, Democratic, and undecided audiences. In addition to inspiring his Yes We Can campaign slogan, the ideology of change separated Obama from his opponents. During his campaign, change was the second most stated concept in Obama's speeches, falling behind the economy. Change also became a part of Obama's slogan, \"Change we can believe in,\" which appeared on banners, podiums, and posters.\n\nHope supported the idea that change was possible and symbolized the hope that Obama could become the first African American president of the United States. Hope became another repeated topic and theme in the campaign, being the fourth most stated concept behind the economy, change, and security. Below is an example of hope as a motif from Obama's 2004 Democratic National Convention keynote address:\n\n\"Hope in the face of difficulty. Hope in the face of uncertainty. The audacity of hope!\" \n\nAmerican exceptionalism is a rhetorical device that elicits support from the audience and convinces listeners that the speaker can restore the United States to greatness. Using American exceptionalism promoted confidence in Obama, his campaign, and the national identity of the United States. American exceptionalism helped Obama establish a separation between the old administration and his new leadership.\n\nWoodrow Wilson, Bill Clinton, and Ronald Reagan are other politicians known for their use of American exceptionalism to further the ideal that the United States is the hegemon of the world. Although related to patriotism, exceptionalism is a stronger belief that the United States is the exception to the rules of history.\n\nSpeakers can praise the United States and its greatness to draw pride from the audience. Below is an example of American exceptionalism from Obama on a campaign stop in Toledo, Ohio on October 13, 2008:\n\n\"I know these are difficult times. I know folks are worried. But I also know this - we can steer ourselves out of this crisis. Because we are the United States of America. We are the country that has faced down war and depression; great challenges and great threats. And at each and every moment, we have risen to meet these challenges - not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans. We still have the most talented, most productive workers of any country on Earth. We're still home to innovation and technology, colleges and universities that are the envy of the world. Some of the biggest ideas in history have come from our small businesses and our research facilities. It won't be easy, but there's no reason we can't make this century another American century.\" \n\nThis quote praises America's ability to rise against the odds. Obama's use of exceptionalism became symbolic of a fight to restore and renew America back to its glory days and avoid the status quo.\n\nAmerican exceptionalism is also used in the form of negation, where the speaker describes what the United States is not. Negation exceptionalism promotes the greatness of the country by describing negative qualities the country does not embody. Obama used negation exceptionalism in a health care speech delivered in Newport News, Virginia on October 4, 2008:\n\n\"We are not a country that rewards hard work and perseverance with debt and worry. We've never been a country that lets major challenges go unsolved and unaddressed. And we are tired of watching as year after year, candidates offer up detailed health care plans with great fanfare and promise, only to see them crushed under the weight of Washington politics and drug and insurance lobbying once the campaign is over. That is not who we are. And that is not who we have to be.\" \n\nThis passage presents ideas that are contrary to the superiority and national autonomy of the United States of America, but by negating them, shows what the United States can hope to accomplish.\n\nVoicing is using the voice of another within a speech to create proximity and credibility. Obama quoted famous Americans, such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and personal stories from everyday Americans, which helps the audience connect emotionally with the speech. Voicing is a powerful rhetorical device because the audience can engage in the speech by reacting through chants, cheers, and vocalizations Voicing changes the definitions of roles so that the speaker is not the only active participant.\n\nIn a January 26, 2008 speech in South Carolina, Obama told three stories of a woman struggling to make ends meet, a man who cannot find work, and a woman who is waiting for her son to return from Iraq. Obama was able to borrow the voices of these Americans in his speeches, making himself the speaker of and an audience member to these stories.\n\nOther rhetorical devices Obama used in his campaign speeches were repetition, metaphor, personification, climax, and allusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "8813018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8813018", "title": "Chain of survival", "text": "Chain of survival\n\nThe chain of survival refers to a series of actions that, properly executed, reduce the mortality associated with cardiac arrest. Like any chain, the chain of survival is only as strong as its weakest link. The four interdependent links in the chain of survival are early access, early CPR, early defibrillation, and early advanced cardiac life support\n\nThe \"chain of survival\" metaphor was first published in the March 1981 newsletter of CPR for Citizens in Orlando, Florida. It was further developed by Mary M. Newman of the Sudden Cardiac Arrest Foundation, and used as a slogan for the 1988 Conference on Citizen CPR, and described in an article she wrote for the Journal of Emergency Medical Services in 1989, and in an editorial she wrote for the first issue of Currents in Emergency Cardiac Care in 1990. The American Heart Association adopted the concept and elaborated on it in its 1992 guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiac care, The International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) echoed the concept in 1997.\n\nIdeally, someone must recognize an impending cardiac arrest or otherwise witness the cardiac arrest and activate the EMS system as early as possible with an immediate call to the emergency services. Unfortunately, many persons experiencing symptoms (for example, angina) that may lead to a cardiac arrest ignore these warning symptoms or, recognizing these warning symptoms correctly, fail to activate the EMS system, preferring to contact relatives instead (the elderly often contact their adult offspring rather than contact emergency services).\n\nTo be most effective, bystanders should provide CPR immediately after a patient collapses. Properly performed CPR can keep the heart in a shockable ventricular fibrillation for 10–12 minutes longer.\n\nMost adults who can be saved from cardiac arrest are in ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia. Early defibrillation is the link in the chain most likely to improve survival. Public access defibillation may be the key to improving survival rates in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, but is of the greatest value when the other links in the chain do not fail.\n\nEarly advanced cardiac life support by paramedics is another critical link in the chain of survival. In communities with survival rates > 20%, a minimum of two of the rescuers are trained to the advanced level. In some countries, EMS delivery may be performed by ambulance officers, paramedics, nurses, or doctors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44459617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44459617", "title": "Cumulative effects (environment)", "text": "Cumulative effects (environment)\n\nCumulative environmental effects can be defined as effects on the environment which are caused by the combined results of past, current and future activities. While the precise definition of a cumulative effect varies from nation-to-nation, most use a definition similar to that defined under the US National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) regulations. The NEPA regulations define a cumulative effect (AKA cumulative impact) as:\n\nOver time, direct and indirect human activities combine to collectively impact the environment. These effects may differ from the original, individual activities. For example, ecosystems can be damaged by the combined effects of human activities, such as air, land, and/or water pollution, improper handling of industrial waste, and other human development activities. Global warming is the cumulative effect caused by too much greenhouse gas, and it may then cause a loss in biodiversity and acid rain. North America has contributed to creating various cumulative effects on the environment. Many states in the United States have inadequate or no formal environmental review requirements in order to assess the cumulative effects on the environment from harmful practices. The extent to which cumulative effects in each state are evaluated varies greatly. For example, some programs only require an assessment on specific natural resource issues and others require comprehensive examination of cumulative effects on the environment. Environmental assessments are a necessity to ensure the further advancement of healthy ecosystems, habitats, and wildlife.\n\nThe concept of cumulative effects is based on the fact that little things, when combined together, form a larger result. For example, \"a single automobile, a small clear- cut in a forest, or a single septic tank is unlikely to have a measurable effect on air quality, runoff, or water quality, respectively. However, with increasing numbers of cars, clear-cuts, or septic tanks, the likelihood of a detectable change increases. This change results from multiple activities at different locations, this type of cumulative effect occurs either off-site or across a large area, such as an airshed\". \nHuman disturbances in the environment create cumulative effects. The human \"footprint\" is a major driver of biodiversity change and cumulative effects over time, some examples are physical disturbances from activities such as energy development, cultivation, forest harvesting, and transportation infrastructure.\n\nCanada’s offshore oil and gas industry creates cumulative environmental effects, such as noise pollution, which can affect whales, and oil pollution, which if exposed to seabirds can kill them. Oil and gas activities are usually only thought to be affecting one region of an ecosystem, but it is important to realize the connective nature of populations in different regions. Oil and gas activities can even disrupt the population of a species that is in more than one region of Canada. These effects may harm migrating populations, so every aspect must be considered in the management of offshore oil and gas activities in Canada.\n\nAir pollution is caused by sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxide human emissions, such as electricity generation, factories, and vehicles. \"Electrical power complexes using coal are among the greatest contributors to gaseous pollutions that are responsible for acidic rain. The gases can be carried hundreds of kilometers in the atmosphere before they are converted to acids and deposited,\" which can then cause widespread ecological damage.\n\nGlobal warming is caused primarily by anthropogenic, human caused, CO emissions greenhouse gases. Other cumulative effects include ocean acidification, caused by increasing amounts of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, resulting from human actions. Also the long-term melting of ice sheets, from global temperature increases, contributes to sea level rising.\n\nIf we do not recycle recyclable materials it will increase air pollution (from incineration) and water pollution (from landfilling), and increase greenhouse gas emissions caused by plastic production. These are negative contributors to cumulative environmental effects that can cause global warming.\n\nThe United States uses a cumulative impact assessment (CIA), also referred to as cumulative effects assessment (CEA), which is a process that identifies additive or interactive environmental effects occurring from human activities over time in order to then avoid cumulative environmental effects. This is an effective potential policy that can also help in productive environmental planning and management. Most development activities have individually minor impacts but collectively over time their impact on the environment is more substantial. In many countries, CIA is undertaken as part of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) process. \nLandscape management, such as creating wildlife reserves will help to ensure human development can not occur there and therefore reduce cumulative effects in that area.\nIn many cases in the United States the government will not fund these environmental assessments because it requires great funding over a long term.\n\nA strategic environmental assessment is necessary to generate safer policies and programs for future industrial activities, while also being aware of environmental concerns from all potential sources. The large number of resources and the many ways by which these resources can be affected make cumulative effect assessments problematic.\n\nTwo ideas for improvement on United States' environmental review programs with CIA requirements are, creating detailed guidelines to specify what to include in a CIA and implementing better coordination between the agency responsible for carrying out CIA (the permitting and/or funding agency) and other relevant state agencies. Both ideas suggest that future effort to improve CIA practices should focus on strengthening the state’s environmental review programs ability to carry out CIA implementation. Also, including detailed guidelines will support the development of a definition of CI, clarify the steps required to conduct an assessment and specify content to be included in the write-up.\n\nThree major problems were identified by administrators of environmental review programs with CIA requirements, they are a lack of specific procedures, unavailable data, and unclear definitions of cumulative effects. These are imperative problems to solve to then be able to properly manage activities contributing to cumulative effects. There is a reluctance to start a cumulative effect analysis in some cases due to the cost of the analysis, as well as the problems of uncertainty and complexity.\nIn order to stabilize the global average temperature, to decrease the cumulative effects of global warming, the world would need to reduce CO emissions, and also methane and nitrous oxide emissions. \"For CO, anthropogenic emissions would need to be reduced by more than 80% relative to their peak level\" to reduce the effect of global warming.\n\nThe lack of environmental assessments can cause harm to wildlife populations and the habitats that are dependent on ocean ecosystems (specifically in the problem with offshore oil and gas industries), especially as these effects become additive, exponentially larger, and more harmful.\n\nEnvironmental planning and management need to include cumulative effects as their top priority. Our ability to assess cumulative effects is hindered by the lack of information on past management activities and the uncertainty of future events. Secondary and interacting effects make it even more complex to assess current and potential cumulative effects.\n\nThe very definition of a \"cumulative effect\" and its assessment in terms of cumulative significance\" can result in a paradox. As defined pursuant to the US National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), a strict interpretation of a cumulative Impact implies that a categorical exclusion (CATX) or environmental assessment/Finding of no significant impact (EA/FONSI) cannot be applied to any proposal that adds any contribution to a cumulative impact that has already breached the threshold of significance. Thus, if an environmental resource has already sustained a cumulatively significant impact, a decision-maker cannot declare that a proposed action contributing any incremental impact (however small) is eligible for a CATX or EA/FONSI? Yet, CATXs and EA/FONSIs are routinely (i.e., incorrectly) applied for virtually all Federal proposed actions that have already sustained cumulatively significant impacts.\n\nConsidering NEPA’s regulatory definitions and requirements, many (if not most) activities for which EAs (and CATXs) are currently prepared should actually be ineligible for a FONSI, therefore requiring preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS); yet, strict compliance with NEPA’s regulatory provisions would result in an unreasonable and voluminous increase in the number of required EISs (even where the incremental impacts would be relatively small) and, in many areas, might render the concept of a CATX/FONSI next to useless.\n\nFor instance, in the example of the downtown area described above, a strict interpretation of cumulative significance could lead to the conclusion that a Federal agency would have to prepare an EIS to construct something as mundane as a stoplight, walkway, or small parking lot if an environmental resource such as air quality or noise is already cumulatively significant. Clearly, a strict interpretation of NEPA’s regulatory requirements can lead to absurd, unreasonable, and politically unacceptable results. \"Eccleston’s Paradox\" refers to:\n\n\"The illogical, unreasonable, or absurd situation in which CATXs or EA/FONSIs are routinely applied to relatively mundane actions in areas that have sustained cumulatively significant impacts, yet the application of these streamlining provisions violates the cumulative impact regulatory constraints placed on their very use.\"\n\nMany other nations are also confronted with the similar paradoxes. To resolve this paradox, Eccleston developed a technique known as the \"Significant Departure Principle\" (SDP). The SDP provides a practical solution for resolving this Paradox.\n"}
{"id": "36736345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36736345", "title": "Dharmachari Guruma", "text": "Dharmachari Guruma\n\nDharmachāri Gurumā (Devanagari: धर्मचारी गुरुमाँ) (born Laxmi Nāni Tulādhar) (14 November 1898 – 7 January 1978) was a Nepalese anagarika who was an influential figure in the revival of Theravada Buddhism in Nepal. She was expelled from Kathmandu by the government for her religious activities.\n\nDharmachari was a progressive and fought social mores and government repression to become a nun. She acquired an education and traveled out of the country to study Buddhism and receive ordination. Dharmachari also established the first nunnery in Nepal.\n\nLaxmi Nani was born at Dhyākwachhen, Asan, a historical neighborhood in central Kathmandu. She was the fourth among seven siblings. Her father was Man Kaji and mother Ratna Maya Tuladhar. During Laxmi Nani's early years, it was difficult to receive an education, and for girls even more so. However, encouraged by a neighbourhood shopkeeper and her mother, she taught herself to read and write.\n\nIn 1909, Laxmi Nani was married to Sete Kaji Bania of Itum Bahal who belonged to a family of hereditary herbalists. A son was born to her in 1916 who died in infancy. In 1919, her husband died when she was seven-months pregnant with their daughter. In 1927, her daughter died too. The loss of her entire family in a few years made her become more deeply involved in religious activities.\n\nAs Laxmi Nani (alternative names: Laxmi Nāni Upāsikā, Laxmi Nāni Baniā) was literate and skilled in mixing herbal medicines, she was a respected member of the household. She fulfilled her responsibilities in the extended family even as she studied Buddhist books. She taught what she learned to a group of women students who met at Kindo Baha, a 17th-century monastic courtyard at the foot of Swayambhu. The dilapidated monastery had been restored in 1926 by the efforts of Buddhist scholar Dharmaditya Dharmacharya and benefactor Dharma Man Tuladhar.\n\nThe gatherings at Kindo Baha attracted the attention of a suspicious government, and the women were hauled before the prime minister. He told them that studying religious books and speaking in front of a crowd was not for women, and that they should go home and look after their families. However, they continued to study in secret.\n\nLaxmi Nani also composed hymns in the Newar language. Her composition was first printed in 1929 in the magazine \"Buddha Dharma wa Nepal Bhasa\" published from Kolkata. The songs urged women to acquire an education and exposed social evils of the day.\n\nIn 1930, the return to Nepal of Pragyananda Mahasthavir, the first yellow-robed monk in the country since the 14th century, propelled the Theravada Buddhist movement further. Laxmi Nani and five of her companions decided to renounce lay life and be ordained as nuns. In 1934, she led her friends to Kushinagar, India and then to a nunnery in Arakan, Burma where they received ordination. Laxmi Nani was given the dharma name Dharmachari. They returned to Kathmandu and continued their work at Kindo Baha.\n\nKindo Baha was turned into a center of Theravada Buddhism by the monks and nuns who were trained abroad. They conducted regular prayer meets, and the number of devotees coming to listen to their sermons kept increasing. As the crowds became larger, an intolerant government turned hostile. Spies hovered around Kindo Baha, and devotees had to face repeated police harassment. In 1944, the government took the extreme step of expelling all the monks in Kathmandu. A year later, the nuns were also banished.\n\nWhile the monks had to leave Nepal, the women were sent to Trishuli, a day's journey to the north of Kathmandu on the way to Tibet. Here too, the nuns gave sermons and taught the Dharma. Their activities were reported to the prime minister; and barely a month after their arrival in Trishuli, the police came and marched them back to Kathmandu. They were kept at the police station at Durbar Square where they were questioned. They were freed the next day.\n\nIn 1946, a Sri Lankan goodwill mission visited Nepal and pleaded with the government on behalf of the banished monks. They were thus allowed to return and continue their activities unhindered.\n\nConsidering the crowded conditions at Kindo Baha, Dharmachari began work to establish a separate nunnery. She bought a piece of land nearby and raised funds to build a prayer hall and living quarters. In 1952, the nunnery with its centerpiece, a great statue of the reclining Buddha, was inaugurated. It is now known as Nirvana Murti Vihara.\n"}
{"id": "10800433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10800433", "title": "Distributive pronoun", "text": "Distributive pronoun\n\nA distributive pronoun considers members of a group separately, rather than collectively.\n\nThey include \"each, any, either, neither\" and others.\n\n\nBesides distributive pronouns, there are also distributive determiners (also called distributive adjectives). The pronouns and determiners often have the same form:\n\nA common distributive idiom in Biblical Hebrew used an ordinary word for man, \"'ish\" (). Brown Driver Briggs only provides four representative examples — Gn 9:5; 10:5; 40:5; Ex 12:3.\nOf the many other examples of the idiom in the Hebrew Bible, the best known is a common phrase used to describe everyone returning to their own homes. It is found in 1 Samuel 10:25 among other places.\nThis word, \"'ish\", was often used to distinguish men from women. \"She shall be called Woman () because she was taken out of Man (),\" is well known, but the distinction is also clear in Gn 19:8; 24:16 and 38:25 (see note for further references). However, it could also be used generically in this distributive idiom (Jb 42:11; I Ch 16:3).\n\nThe most common distributive pronoun in classical Greek was \"hekastos\" (, each).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33383171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33383171", "title": "Dzubukua", "text": "Dzubukua\n\nDzubukuá (Dzubucua), or Kiriri, is an extinct Karirian language of Brazil. It is sometimes considered a dialect of a single Kariri language. A short grammatical description is available.\n\nPhonology of the Dzubukua language:\n\nVowel sounds are presented as [i, ɨ, u, e, o, a] and [œ] which is written out as a double vowel \"oe\". Nasal vowels are pronounced as [ɐ̃, ẽ, ĩ, õ, ũ] along with nasalized double vowels \"oê\" and \"aê\", not pronounced as diphthongs, but as nasalized monophthongs [œ̃, æ̃].\n"}
{"id": "3490542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3490542", "title": "Ethnography of communication", "text": "Ethnography of communication\n\nThe ethnography of communication (EOC), formerly called the ethnography of speaking, is the analysis of communication within the wider context of the social and cultural practices and beliefs of the members of a particular culture or speech community. It is a method of discourse analysis in linguistics that draws on the anthropological field of ethnography. Unlike ethnography proper, though, EOC takes into account both the communicative form, which may include but is not limited to spoken language, and its function within the given culture.\n\nGeneral aims of this qualitative research method include being able to discern which communication acts and/or codes are important to different groups, what types of meanings groups apply to different communication events, and how group members learn these codes, in order to provide insight into particular communities. This additional insight may be used to enhance communication with group members, make sense of group members’ decisions, and distinguish groups from one another, among other things.\n\nDell Hymes proposed the ethnography of communication as an approach towards analyzing patterns of language use within speech communities, in order to provide support for his idea of communicative competence, which itself was a reaction to Noam Chomsky's distinction between linguistic competence and linguistic performance.\n\nOriginally coined \"ethnography of speaking\" in Dell Hymes' eponymous 1962 paper, it was redefined in his 1964 paper, \"Introduction: Toward Ethnographies of Communication\" to accommodate for the non-vocal and non-verbal characteristics of communication, although most EOC researchers still tend to focus upon speaking as it is generally considered \"to be a prominent - even primordial - means of communication.\"\n\nThe term \"ethnography of communication\" is meant to be descriptive of the characteristics that an approach towards language from an anthropological standpoint must take. Namely, according to Dell Hymes, it must 1) \"investigate directly the use of language in contexts of situations so as to discern patterns proper to speech activity\" and 2) \"take as context a community, investigating its communicative habits as a whole.\" In other words, rather than divorcing linguistic form from its function, the analysis of a culture's or community's communication, linguistic and otherwise, must occur with respect to the sociocultural context of its use and the functions of the meanings conveyed. As Deborah Cameron puts it, \"If you are mainly concerned with the way a certain speech event fits into a whole network of cultural beliefs and practices, you will spend more time describing things that are external to the talk itself: who the speakers are, where they are, what beliefs and customs are important in their lives.\"\n\nIn their book \"Qualitative Communication Research Methods\", communications scholars Thomas R. Lindlof and Bryan C. Taylor explain, \"Ethnography of communication conceptualizes communication as a continuous flow of information, rather than as a segmented exchange of messages.\" According to Deborah Cameron, EOC can be thought of as the application of ethnographic methods to the communication patterns of a group. Littlejohn and Foss recall that Dell Hymes suggests that \"cultures communicate in different ways, but all forms of communication require a shared code, communicators who know and use the code, a channel, a setting, a message form, a topic, and an event created by transmission of the message.\" \"EOC studies,\" according to Lindlof and Taylor, \"produce highly detailed analysis of communication codes and their moment-to-moment functions in various contexts. In these analyses, speech communities are constituted in local and continuous performances of cultural and moral matters.\"\n\nEOC can be used as a means by which to study the interactions among members of a specific culture or \"speech community,\" which is any group of people that creates and establishes its own speaking codes and norms. Gerry Philipsen explained, \"Each community has its own cultural values about speaking and these are linked to judgments of situational appropriateness.\"\n\nThe meaning and the understanding of the presence or absence of speech within different communities will vary. LLocal cultural patterns and norms must be understood to analyze and interpret the appropriateness of speech act within specific communities. Thus, \"the statement that talk is not anywhere valued equally in all social contexts suggests a research strategy for discovering and describing cultural or subcultural differences in the value of speaking. Speaking is one among other symbolic resources which are allocated and distributed in social situations according to distinctive culture patterns.\"\n\nHymes also used EOC to argue against the strong view of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, the idea that one's language determines one's cognitive ability. While Hymes believed that one's language affected one's world view, he argued that the extent of that effect depended \"on the circumstances of its acquisition, and its place in the linguistic repertoire of a person and a community.\"\n\nA model that Hymes developed as a framework for the analysis of a speech event within its cultural context is the mnemonic SPEAKING model. The model consists of sixteen components, which Hymes believed were necessary to consider in order to accurately and satisfactorily describe any particular speech event: message form, message content, setting, scene, speaker/sender, addressor, hearer/receiver/audience, addressee, purposes (outcomes), purposes (goals), key, channels, forms of speech, norms of interaction, norms of interpretation, and genres. These sixteen components are organized into eight divisions to form the acronym SPEAKING.\n\nWhile the SPEAKING model is a valuable model to EOC, as well as the descriptive framework most commonly used in ethnography of communication, Cameron cautions that Hymes' model should be used more as a guide than a template, because adhering to it too narrowly may create a limiting view of the subject of its study. Ethnography of communication, according to Cameron, should strive not only to \"address such 'descriptive' questions as 'what speech events occur in such-and-such a community?' and 'what are the components of speech events X, Y, and Z?'\", but also to explain \"why particular events occur and why they have particular characteristics.\"\n\nSeveral research studies have used ethnography of communication as a methodological tool when conducting empirical research. Examples of this work include Philipsen’s study, which examined the ways in which blue-collar men living near Chicago spoke or did not speak based on communication context and personal identity relationship status (i.e. whether they were considered to be of symmetrical or asymmetrical social status). Other examples include Katriel’s study of Israeli communication acts involving griping and joking about national and public problems, as well as Carbaugh's comparative studies of communication in a variety of intercultural contexts. These studies not only identify communication acts, codes, rules, functions, and norms, but they also offer different ways in which the method can be applied. Joel Sherzer's \"Kuna Ways of Speaking\" investigates the ways of speaking among the Kuna of Panama. This is a landmark study that focuses on curing ways, everyday speaking, puberty rites, and gathering house speech-making. It was the first monograph that explicitly took an ethnography of speaking perspective to the whole range of verbal practices among a group of people.\n\n"}
{"id": "36319450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36319450", "title": "Garawan languages", "text": "Garawan languages\n\nThe Garawan languages (Garrwan), or Yanyi, are a small language family of Australian Aboriginal languages currently spoken in northern Australia.\n\nThe languages are:\nGunindiri is almost entirely unknown.\n\nGarawan may be related to the Pama–Nyungan languages, though this is not accepted in Bowern 2011. The languages are close: Dixon (2002) says that it should be straightforward to reconstruct proto-Garawa–Wanji.\n\nar\n"}
{"id": "25901647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25901647", "title": "Globish (Nerrière)", "text": "Globish (Nerrière)\n\nGlobish is a trademarked name for a subset of the English language formalized by Jean-Paul Nerrière. It uses a subset of standard English grammar, and a list of 1500 English words. Nerrière claims it is \"not a language\" in and of itself, but rather it is the common ground that non-native English speakers adopt in the context of international business.\n\nJean-Paul Nerrière, the author of Globish presents it as a natural language as opposed to an artificial or constructed language, claiming that it is a codification of a reduced set of English patterns as used by non-native speakers of the language.\n\nThe name \"Globish\" is a portmanteau of \"global\" and \"English\". The first attested reference to the term to refer to a set of dialects of English spoken outside of traditional English speaking areas was in an issue of \"The Christian Science Monitor\" in 1997:\n\nThe term was then used in another context by Madhukar Gogate to describe his proposed artificial dialect based on English that he presented in 1998 to improve English spelling.\n\nNerrière's use of the term Globish is related to his claim that the language described in his books is naturally occurring. He has marked his codification of that language by taking out trademark protection on the term, as did I.A. Richards who trademarked \"Basic English\" in order to prevent dilution and misrepresentation of his work. Instances of attested prior usage, it can be seen, were incidental or not intended for the same purpose.\n\nJean-Paul Nerrière, creator of Globish is a French computer engineer. Nerrière graduated with a master's degree in Mechanical Engineering from École Centrale de Paris in 1963. \nThen he entered the French Naval Academy, with further specialization in law, accounting and administrator while serving as Supply Officer in the French Navy. He graduated from the\nFrench Advanced Defence College and advancing to the rank of commander. He joined IBM France in 1965 in the Data Processing Division. In IBM, he spent almost three decades with responsibilities in sales, marketing, and management in France as well as in international headquarters. He became an Assistant to Corporate President John Opel, later on the Operations General Manager of IBM France, then a Vice President at IBM Europe, and eventually the IBM USA Vice President in charge of International Marketing. In 1992, Nerriere moved to Automobiles Peugeot as their Commercial Director and as Senior Vice President of sales, marketing, and services and a member of Peugeot's Council of Directors Council. Then he was appointed CEO of Digital Equipment France (DEC), and soon thereafter was promoted to Vice President of Digital Equipment Europe. Jean-Paul Nerrière was knighted in Légion d'honneur, the highest official award available in France. He is also an elected member of the French Maritime Society. He is also on the National Committee for the development of Grandes Écoles.\n\nAs an IBM executive and as a result of his vast travels, Jean-Paul Nerrière realized that a new global language was becoming more and more important. While serving as vice president of international marketing at IBM, Jean-Paul Nerriere first observed patterns of English that non-native English speakers used to communicate with each other in international conferences. In 1989, he proposed Globish as an international language focussing most of his efforts to its promotion. He developed rules and training in the form of various publications to help non-native English speakers better communicate with each other by using Globish as a lingua franca. He conducted dozens of interviews and wrote or co-authored 6 books about Globish in four different languages.\n\nNerrière formulated his ideas in two books he authored, \"Decouvrez le globish\" (meaning Discover the Globish) and \"Do Not Speak English, Parlez Globish\". Both books have been translated into a number of international languages. In French, he has published \"Parlez globish!: l'anglais planétaire du troisième millénaire\" and co-authored with Philippe Dufresne and Jacques Bourgon, the instruction book \"Découvrez le globish: l'anglais allégé en 26 étapes\".\n\nNerrière's 2004 codification work began to legitimize the language purpose to the extent it drew some press attention. Clearly, and with much subsequent reference, the term \"Globish\" has grown increasingly as a generic term since the date of his first publications. Nerrière trademarked Globish as a subset of the English language formalized by him. He also launched the website globish.com to promote his ideas.\n\nIn 2009, intending to demonstrate that \"Good Globish is correct English\", Nerriere and David Hon published \"Globish the World Over\", the first book written entirely in Globish-English. Robert McCrum, literary editor of \"The Observer\", is quoted as supporting the efficacy of the language. By 2011, \"Globish the World Over\" had been translated into 12 languages including French, German, Spanish, Italian, Russian, Japanese, Chinese, Polish, Hungarian, Slovakian, Uzbek etc. It was a best seller in Japan.\n\nIn 2011, the Globish Foundation was formed as a non-profit organization in Australia, for the purpose of maintaining and promulgating the standards of Globish. By 2013, the Globish Foundation had 8 national affiliates and an online Globish Communications Test available 24/7.\n\nBarbara Cassin claims that Globish is not a language of culture, but a language of service. Robert McCrum wrote the book \"Globish: How the English Language Became the World's Language\" (), describing Globish as an economic phenomenon, unlike \"global English\" whose uses are much more diverse than just business.\n\nSpecial English is also a controlled subset of the English language with about 1500 words, short sentences, and slower delivery than traditional English. Special English was first used on October 19, 1959, and is still presented daily by the United States broadcasting service Voice of America.\n\nSpecialized English is a controlled subset of the English language derived from Special English by Feba Radio. It also has about 1500 words, with some differences in the word list from Special English.\n\nCritics of \"Globish\" either feel that its codifications are not sufficiently clearly rendered, or that an artificial language is preferable to any natural one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2389481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2389481", "title": "Grand National Tournament", "text": "Grand National Tournament\n\nGrand National Speech and Debate Tournament is the premier public speaking event of the National Catholic Forensic League. It is held annually in the United States over Memorial Day weekend. One can qualify for the tournament by performing sufficiently well in a local qualifying tournament.\n\nThe Grand National Speech and Debate Tournament is the premier public speaking event of the National Catholic Forensic League. The event is held annually in the United States of America over Memorial Day weekend. Students can qualify for the tournament by performing sufficiently well in a local qualifying tournament. There are a number of events in which the participants may compete.\n\nGrand National Tournament in Declamation (also known as Oratorical Declamation or Oratorical Interpretation, commonly abbreviated to \"DEC\") is a public speaking event of the National Catholic Forensic League. The category is almost always open to high school freshmen and sophomores only. It is often used as a \"starter\" event to get underclassmen used to the speech and debate activity in general and to prepare them for other categories such as Dramatic Performance or Original Oratory.\n\nIn simplest terms, Declamation is delivering a speech that was already written and delivered by another person. A competitor may choose any speech that has been delivered in public before. NCFL rules call for specific introductory material and a ten-minute time limit. The NCFL is the largest league in the United States that offers Declamation as a category for competition. Most local and state leagues adhere to NCFL rules or slight variations on them.\n\nFrom the official NCFL critique sheet:\n\nTherefore, the purpose of the category is not to give an impersonation of the original speaker; it is to interpret their words in an interesting and convincing manner that fits the individual competitor. The competitor is only required to recreate the general \"feel\" of the original delivery, not mimic it.\n\nA joint venture of Miami Dade College and Miami Dade County Public Schools in Miami, Florida, the Project began in 1977, and is dedicated to exposing school children to the wide breadth of writings about the Black experience throughout the Diaspora. The Project seeks to provide an opportunity for school children in grades Pre-K through high school to discover and refine public speaking skills through a comprehensive and challenging level of learning and competition.\n\nThe Project is an in-person oratory, declamation and advocacy oral presentation of persuasive or inspirational material of literary merit prepared by another person; the advocacy component being a researched problem, identified solution, and the extolled benefits or burdens of an issue in an effectively, compelling speech. The speech is memorized and each speaker is allowed a minimum of 3 minutes to present. Judging is based primarily on the quality of the presentation as represented by the following evaluation criteria:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Project's namesake, the Reverend Canon Theodore R. Gibson, a Miami city commissioner known for his oration and vision, made the remark that is the Project's theme: \"Help the Children to Communicate...That is the Key\".\n\nThe use of former Original Oratory speeches in Declamation has become quite widespread in recent years. Some see this practice as unfair or undermining the category's original purpose, as these speeches were originally written for the purpose of winning in forensic competition, and not necessarily conveying an important message. At the beginning of 2003–2004 season, the NCFL enacted a ban on all former high school competitive oratories, effective as of the 2005 Grand National Tournament. However, at the beginning of the 2004–2005 season, the restriction was removed, and thus, the ban never truly came into effect. State and local leagues may choose to ban or allow material as they wish.\n\n"}
{"id": "41214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41214", "title": "Graphic character", "text": "Graphic character\n\nIn ISO/IEC 646 (commonly known as ASCII) and related standards including ISO 8859 and Unicode, a graphic character is any character intended to be written, printed, or otherwise displayed in a form that can be read by humans. In other words, it is any encoded character that is associated with one or more glyphs.\n\nIn ISO 646, graphic characters are contained in rows 2 through 7 of the code table. However, two of the characters in these rows, namely the space character SP at row 2 column 0 and the delete character DEL (also called the rubout character) at row 7 column 15, require special mention.\n\nThe space is considered to be \"both\" a graphic character and a control character in ISO 646. It can have a visible form, and also a control function (moving the print head).\n\nThe delete character is strictly a control character, not a graphic character. This is true not only in ISO 646, but also in all related standards including Unicode. However, many modern character sets deviate from ISO 646, and as a result a graphic character might occupy the position originally reserved for the delete character.\n\nIn Unicode, Graphic characters are those with General Category Letter, Mark, Number, Punctuation, Symbol or Zs=space. Other code points (General categories Control, Zl=line separator, Zp=paragraph separator) are Format, Control, Private Use, Surrogate, Noncharacter or Reserved (unassigned).\n\nMost graphic characters are spacing characters, which means that each instance of a spacing character has to occupy some area in a graphic representation. For a teletype or a typewriter this implies moving of the carriage after typing of a character. In the context of text mode display, each spacing character occupies one rectangular character box of equal sizes. Or maybe two adjacent ones, for non-alphabetic characters of East Asian languages. If a text is rendered using proportional fonts, widths of character boxes are not equal, but are positive.\n\nThere exists also \"non-spacing\" graphic characters. Most of non-spacing characters are \"modifiers\", also called combining characters in Unicode, such as diacritical marks. Although non-spacing graphic characters are uncommon in traditional code pages, there are many such in Unicode. A combining character has its distinct glyph, but it applies to a character box of another character, a spacing one. In some historical systems such as line printers this was implemented as overstrike.\n\nNote that not all modifiers are non-spacing – there exists Spacing Modifier Letters Unicode block.\n\n"}
{"id": "23865417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23865417", "title": "H. L. Oldie", "text": "H. L. Oldie\n\nHenry Lion Oldie or H. L. Oldie () is the pen name of Ukrainian science-fantasy fiction writers Dmitry Gromov and Oleg Ladyzhensky. Both authors reside in Kharkiv, Ukraine, and write in Russian. At Eurocon 2006 in Kyiv, the European Science Fiction Society named them Europe's best writers of 2006. Oldie collaborated with other Russophone Ukrainian writers, such as Andrey Valentinov, Marina and Sergey Dyachenko.\n\nThe \"H. L. Oldie\" pen name was invented as a merger of their names, Oleg and Dmitry, respectively, and the initials are derived from their family names in Cyrillic (Громов and Ладыженский). They eventually decided that H. L. should stay for \"Henry Lion\". Choice of a \"western\" pseudonym was common during the early post-Soviet era, when Russian and Ukrainian publishers and readers preferred foreign science fiction and fantasy to Russian.\n\nDmitry Yevgenyevich Gromov (, ) was born March 30, 1963, in Simferopol, Crimea, Soviet Union. His family moved to Kharkiv when he was 11. There he graduated from Kharkiv Polytechnical Institute in 1986 and worked as chemistry engineer. Married, he has a son (born 1989). Since 1991 he has been pursuing a full-time writer career.\n\nOleg Semenovych Ladyzhensky (, ) was born March 23, 1963, in Kharkiv, Soviet Ukraine. He graduated from Kharkiv institute of culture in 1984. After that he became a theatre director. It is Ladyzhensky who's responsible for H. L. Oldie's poetry, he publishes his verse separately from Oldie books as well, under his real name.\n\n\nNovelettes \"The Eighth circle of Subway\" (1990), \"The Monster\" (1990), \"Tiger\" (1990), \"Nobody's home\" (1990), \"Master\" (1991), \"Broken circle\" (1991), \"Annabel Lee\" (1991) published separately were included in the novellas of the cycle \"The Abyss of Hungry Eyes\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "56798678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56798678", "title": "Leading name", "text": "Leading name\n\nA leading name (German \"Leitname\", plural \"Leitnamen\") is a given name that is used repeatedly over several generations in a lineage or broader kin group. Usually the entire name is used again and again, but sometimes a root of a name may be reused in several different forms.\n\nA leading name could function as a sort of \"moral property\", where only those of the lineage had a right to use it and it was expected that nobody else would do so. Both the Merovingian and Carolingian dynasties of Frankish kings drew from a repertoire of names that were rarely or never used by other families.\n\nNames could be passed on from the paternal or maternal side, often depending on which ancestors were more prominent.\n\nThe idea of tracing lineages and proposing genealogies based on analysis of leading names is old. In 1043, when Abbot Poppo of Stavelot opposed the marriage of the Emperor Henry III to Agnes of Poitou on grounds of consanguinity, he traced the ancestry of Henry's mother: \"the descent of the genealogy is achieved through Mathildas and Gerbergas, in such a way that Mathilda, the daughter of Gerberga (with the same name as her grandmother) called her daughter by her mother's name, and she left her own name as an inheritance to her granddaughter.\"\n"}
{"id": "13739985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13739985", "title": "Lehmer's conjecture", "text": "Lehmer's conjecture\n\nLehmer's conjecture, also known as the Lehmer's Mahler measure problem, is a problem in number theory raised by Derrick Henry Lehmer. The conjecture asserts that there is an absolute constant formula_1 such that every polynomial with integer coefficients formula_2 satisfies one of the following properties:\n\n\nThere are a number of definitions of the Mahler measure, one of which is to factor formula_4 over formula_11 as\n\nand then set\n\nThe smallest known Mahler measure (greater than 1) is for \"Lehmer's polynomial\"\n\nfor which the Mahler measure is the Salem number\n\nIt is widely believed that this example represents the true minimal value: that is, formula_16 in Lehmer's conjecture.\n\nConsider Mahler measure for one variable and Jensen's formula shows that if formula_17 then \nIn this paragraph denote　formula_19 , which is also called Mahler measure.\n\nIf formula_20 has integer coefficients, this shows that formula_21 is an algebraic number so formula_22 is the logarithm of an algebraic integer. It also shows that formula_23 and that if formula_24 then formula_20 is a product of cyclotomic polynomials i.e. monic polynomials whose all roots are roots of unity, or a monomial polynomial of formula_7 i.e. a power formula_27 for some formula_28 .\n\nLehmer noticed that formula_24 is an important value in the study of the integer sequences formula_30 for monic formula_20 . If formula_20 does not vanish on the circle then formula_33 and this statement might be true even if formula_20 does vanish on the circle. By this he was led to ask\nor\nSome positive answers have been provided as follows, but Lehmer's conjecture is not yet completely proved and is still a question of much interest.\n\nLet formula_2 be an irreducible monic polynomial of degree formula_42.\n\nSmyth proved that Lehmer's conjecture is true for all polynomials that are not reciprocal, i.e., all polynomials satisfying formula_43.\n\nBlanksby and Montgomery and Stewart independently proved that there is an absolute constant formula_44 such that either formula_8 or\n\nDobrowolski improved this to\n\nDobrowolski obtained the value \"C\" ≥ 1/1200 and asymptotically C > 1-ε for all sufficiently large \"D\". Voutier in 1996 obtained \"C\" ≥ 1/4 for \"D\" ≥ 2.\n\nLet formula_48 be an elliptic curve defined over a number field formula_49, and let formula_50 be the canonical height function. The canonical height is the analogue for elliptic curves of the function formula_51. It has the property that formula_52 if and only if formula_53 is a torsion point in formula_54. The elliptic Lehmer conjecture asserts that there is a constant formula_55 such that\n\nwhere formula_58. If the elliptic curve \"E\" has complex multiplication, then the analogue of Dobrowolski's result holds:\n\ndue to Laurent. For arbitrary elliptic curves, the best known result is\n\ndue to Masser. For elliptic curves with non-integral j-invariant, this has been improved to\n\nby Hindry and Silverman.\n\nStronger results are known for restricted classes of polynomials or algebraic numbers.\n\nIf \"P\"(\"x\") is not reciprocal then\n\nand this is clearly best possible. If further all the coefficients of \"P\" are odd then\n\nFor any algebraic number \"α\", let formula_64 be the Mahler measure of the minimal polynomial formula_65 of \"α\". If the field Q(\"α\") is a Galois extension of Q, then Lehmer's conjecture holds for formula_65.\n\n"}
{"id": "28035488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28035488", "title": "Lexalytics", "text": "Lexalytics\n\nLexalytics, Inc. provides sentiment and intent analysis to an array of companies using SaaS and cloud based technology. Salience 6, the engine behind Lexalytics, was built as an on-premises, multi-lingual text analysis engine. It is leased to other companies who use it to power filtering and reputation management programs. In July, 2015 Lexalytics acquired Semantria to be used as a cloud option for its technology.\n\nLexalytics spun into existence in January 2003 out of a content management startup called Lightspeed. Lightspeed consolidated on America’s West Coast. Jeff Catlin, a Lightspeed General Manager, and Mike Marshall, a Lighstpeed Principle Engineer, convinced investors to give them the East Coast company so as to avoid shutdown costs. Catlin and Marshall renamed the operation Lexalytics.\n\nCatlin took on the role of Chief Executive Officer with Marshall working as Chief Technology Officer. Lexalytics opted to not accept venture cash. Instead, the company initially shared sales and marketing expenses with U.K. based document management company Infonic. The partner companies soon formed a joint venture in July 2008, which was later dissolved. Since then, Lexalytics has worked with many other companies, like Bottlenose, Salesforce, Thomson Reuters, Oracle and DataSift. Relationships with social media monitoring companies like Datasift tend to find Lexalytics’ Salience engine baked into the product itself. Lexalytics is used similarly to monitor sentiment as it relates to stock trading. In December 2014, Lexalytics announced the latest iteration to its sentiment analysis engine, Salience 6. Earlier that year Lexalytics acquired Semantria in a bid to appeal to a wider variety of business models. Created by former Lexalytics Marketing Director Oleg Rogynskyy, Semantria is a SaaS text mining service offered as an API and Excel based plugin that measures sentiment. The goal of the acquisition, which cost Lexalytics less than $10 million USD, was to expand the customer base both within the United States and abroad with multilingual support.\n\nThe engine that powers Semantria, Salience, is grounded in its deep learning ability. An example of this is its concept matrix, which allows Salience an understanding of concepts and relationship between concepts based on a detailed reading of the entire repository of Wikipedia. This matrix allows Salience to use Wikipedia for automatic categorization. Along with features like the concept matrix, Salience supports 16 international languages. The engine has earned Lexalytics a spot on EContent’s “Top 100 Companies in the Digital Content Industry” List for 2014-2015. In September 2018, Lexalytics launched document data extraction market using natural language processing (NLP).\n\n"}
{"id": "49891529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49891529", "title": "Liam Ó Briain", "text": "Liam Ó Briain\n\nLiam Ó Briain (16 September 1888 – 12 August 1974) was an Irish language expert and political activist.\n\nBorn in North Wall, Dublin as William O'Brien, he took an interest in the Irish language from an early age and while still at the O'Connell School started using the Irish version of his name. He also attended meetings of the Gaelic League, then attended University College Dublin (UCD) on a scholarship, where he studied French, English and Irish, receiving a BA and an MA.\n\nUCD decided to start awarding one annual scholarship for overseas travel in 1911, and Ó Briain won the first one, using it to visit Germany and study under Kuno Meyer and Rudolf Thurneysen. After three years, he returned home, where he rejoined the Gaelic League and began teaching French at UCD. He also joined the Irish Volunteers then, the following year, Seán T. O'Kelly convinced him to join the Irish Republican Brotherhood.\n\nDuring the Easter Rising, Ó Briain saw action with the Irish Citizen Army. He came into conflict with his commander, Michael Mallin, as he wanted to pursue a strategy without the Dublin brigade being \"cooped up in the city\". However, Mallin overruled him and insisted they should focus on taking Dublin Castle. He spent two months in prison and six at an internment camp before being released to discover that he had been fired from his job, but quickly obtained a professorship in Romance languages at University College Galway (UCG).\n\nAround this time, Ó Briain joined Sinn Féin, and he stood unsuccessfully for the party in Mid Armagh at the Irish general election, 1918, taking 5,689 votes. His campaign led, indirectly, to another prison sentence. On release, he was appointed as a judge in the then-illegal republican court system, and visited both France and Italy to try to source weapons for the Irish Republican Army. In November 1920, he was again arrested and interned for just over a year, thereby missing the conclusion of the Irish War of Independence. By the time he was released, the Anglo-Irish Treaty had been signed; he supported this, and took no further part in militant activity.\n\nIn the newly independent Ireland, Ó Briain remained a professor at Galway. He also stood in the Irish Seanad election, 1925, although he was not successful. He was the founding secretary of the Taibhdhearc na Gaillimhe theatre, also acting in many of its productions, and spent much time translating works from English and the Romance languages into Irish. He stood to become president of UCG in 1945, but was not elected, and in the 1940s and 1950s was best known for his many appearances on television and radio.\n\nOn 1 September 1921 he married Helen Lawlor. The couple's only child was the journalist Eibhlín Ní Bhriain.\n"}
{"id": "2001716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001716", "title": "List of Kannada-language films", "text": "List of Kannada-language films\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of the Kannada feature films released by the Kannada film Industry located in Bangalore, Karnataka.\n\n\n\nudumba (2018)\n\n"}
{"id": "31761939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31761939", "title": "Macro-Andean languages", "text": "Macro-Andean languages\n\nMacro-Andean is a speculative proposal by Kaufman (2007) linking languages of the northern Andes. \n\nKaufman (1990) found lexical support for proposals linking the Jivaro–Cahuapanan families as suggested by Swadesh and others. By 2007 he had tentatively added Saparo–Yawan, which is itself provisional, and Bora–Witoto.\n\nKaufman (2007) posits the following membership. The unclassified languages Urarina, Puelche, Sabela, Taushiro, Omurano are included in the Kawapanan and Yawan branches. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4552528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4552528", "title": "Madhunapantula Satyanarayana Sastry", "text": "Madhunapantula Satyanarayana Sastry\n\nMadhunapantula Satyanarayana Sastry (Telugu: మధునపంతుల సత్యనారాయణ శాస్త్రి) (b: March 5, 1920 - d: November 7, 1992) is one of the most eminent personalities in pure Telugu literature of recent times. He lived in Rajahmundry in East Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh of South India. His magnum opus is \"Andhra Puranam\". He was awarded the Andhra Pradesh Sahitya Akademi Award for this work.\n\nMadhunapantula was born in 1920 at Island Polavaram in Amalapuram taluq to scholarly Brahmin family of Satyanarayana Murthy. Oleti Venkata Rama Sastry was his guru. He studied in Sanskrit school at Injaram and Vizianagaram. After studying Sanskrit and Telugu dramas, epics and grammar, he passed Vidvan examination of Madras University in 1940.\n\nIn 1939, he founded a literary organization called 'Andhra Kutiram' at Pallipalem. He started monthly literary magazine \"Andhri\" at the age of 19 years and maintained it more than a decade with high standards. There used to be comprehensive editorial comments about the published articles which was appreciated by Vikramadev Varma and C. R.Reddy. His first literary work was \"Thoranamu\" in 1938.\n\nHe worked on the ambitious lexicon project of \"Suryaraya Andhra Nighantuvu\" of Surya Rau Bahadur of Pithapuram between 1940 and 1944. He wrote \"Parivabhyudaya Kavyam\", \"Ratna Panchalika\", \"Shaddarsana Sangrahamu\", \"Surya Saptati\" and published them with the financial assistance from the Maharajah.\n\nHe worked as Senior Telugu pandit from 1946 in Rajahmundry in Viresalingam Theistic High School and worked for three decades till his retirement in 1977. He wrote biographical details of about 100 Telugu writers named \"Andhra Rachayitalu\" in 1950. His magnum opus was \"Andhra Puranamu\" in 1954 which was recognized by great writers of that era like Viswanatha, Malladi etc. It procured him Andhra Pradesh Sahitya Akademi Award in 1966. Some of his works are translated to Hindi. During the World Telugu Conference in 1975, A.P.Sahitya Akademi published his \"Telugulo Ramayanalu\"\n\nHe died on November 7, 1992 at Rajahmundry.\n\nandhra rachayitalu third publication 2013\nsragdhara un published work\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17944483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17944483", "title": "Malawi Lomwe language", "text": "Malawi Lomwe language\n\nMalawi Lomwe, known as \"Elhomwe\", is a dialect of the Lomwe language spoken in southeastern Malawi.\n\nThe Lomwe are one of the four largest ethnic groups living in Malawi and have history of migration across the Mozambique–Malawi border. Many Lomwe moved into Malawi, where they mixed with the Chewa, in the 1930s due to tribal wars in Mozambique. The Elhomwe language spoken in Malawi is to a large extent a Mihavane dialect while in some districts like Thyolo there are traces of Kokholha dialect.\n\nThe Malawian government has taken a step in preserving the language by broadcasting news in Elhomwe language on its MBC radio 1. The establishment of the cultural organisation Mulhako Wa Alhomwe by the late President of Malawi, Bingu wa Mutharika, on 25 October, 2008, was another milestone. The Mulhako Wa Alhomwe has its headquarters at Chonde in Mulanje District. It was set up to preserve Lhomwe customs, beliefs and language. It has a library and a school of Elhomwe.\n\nAlthough the Elhomwe dialect spoken in Malawi is not mutually intelligible with other dialects of Lomwe spoken in Mozambique it shares many similarities including vocabulary. For instance one could note the similarities in the following word forms: \"otchuna\" (Emakhuwa), \"onthuna\" (Lmeetto), and \"ohuna\" (Elhomwe) meaning \"to want\". Similarly the word for \"women\" is \"anamwaani\" (Emakhuwa and Elhomwe), \"anumwane\" (Lmeetto).\n\n"}
{"id": "1072512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072512", "title": "Manually Coded Malay", "text": "Manually Coded Malay\n\nKod Tangan Bahasa Malaysia (KTBM), or Manually Coded Malay, is the only form of sign language recognized by the government in Malaysia as the language of communication for the Deaf. It is not itself a language, but a manually coded language, a signed form of oral Malay. It is adapted from American Sign Language (or perhaps Manually Coded English), with the addition of some local signs, and grammatical signs representing affixation of nouns and verbs as used in Malay. It is used in Deaf schools for the purpose of teaching the Malay language.\n"}
{"id": "1205768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1205768", "title": "Michael Madhusudan Dutt", "text": "Michael Madhusudan Dutt\n\nMichael Madhusudan Dutt, or Michael Madhusudan Dutta ( (); 25 January 1824 – 29 June 1873) was a popular 19th-century Bengali poet and dramatist. He was a pioneer of Bengali drama. His famous work \"Meghnad Bodh Kavya\", is a tragic epic. It consists of nine cantos and is exceptional in Bengali literature both in terms of style and content. He also wrote poems about the sorrows and afflictions of love as spoken by women.\n\nDutta is widely considered to be one of the greatest poets in Bengali literature and the father of the Bengali sonnet. He pioneered what came to be called A\"mitrakshar chhanda\" (blank verse). Although his first love remained poetry, Dutt showed prodigious skill as a playwright. He was the first to write Bengali plays in the English style, segregating the play into acts and scenes. He was also the pioneer of the first satirical plays in Bengali – \"Buro Shaliker Ghare Rnow\" (Bengali - বুড়ো শালিকের ঘাড়ে রো) and \"Ekei Ki Boley Sabyota\" (Bengali - একেই কি বলে সভ্যতা?)\".\n\nHe was born in Sagordari, a village in Keshabpur Upazila, Jessore District of Undivided Bengal (now Bangladesh). His father was Rajnarayan Dutt, a pleader in the Sudder court, and his mother was Jahnabi Devi.He was an exceptionally talented student. Since his childhood, Dutt was recognised by his teachers and professors as being a precocious child with a gift of literary expression. He was very imaginative. Early exposure to English education and European literature at home and in Kolkata inspired him to emulate the English in taste, manners and intellect. An early influence was his teacher at Hindu College, Calcutta, David Lester Richardson. Richardson was a poet and inspired in Dutt a love of English poetry, particularly Byron.\n\nDutt began writing English poetry aged around 17 years, sending his works to publications in England, including \"Blackwood's Magazine\" and \"Bentley's Miscellany\". They were, however, never published. It was also the time he began correspondence with his friend, Gour Das Bysack, which today form the bulk of the source on his life.\n\nAs a young student, Dutt was influenced by the thoughts and actions of the Young Bengal - a movement by a group of illustrious former students of the Hindu College (now Presidency College) in Calcutta (now Kolkata) against the atrocities, blind beliefs and customs they held as illogical, prevalent in the Hindu society of 19th century Bengal. Dutta, a student of Hindu College himself, aspired to be an English poet and longed to travel to England to gain fame. When his father, concerned by these trends, arranged his marriage, he rebelled. One aspect of his rebellion involved conversion to Christianity.\n\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nWhere man in all his truest glory lives,\nAnd nature's face is exquisitely sweet;\nFor those fair climes I heave impatient sigh,\nThere let me live and there let me die.\n</poem>\n\nMadhusudan embraced Christianity at the Old Mission Church in spite of the objections of his parents and relatives on 9 February 1843. He did not take the name Michael until his marriage in 1848.\n\nHe describes the day as:\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nLong sunk in superstition's night,\nBy Sin and Satan driven,\nI saw not, cared not for the light\nThat leads the blind to Heaven.\nBut now, at length thy grace, O Lord!\nBirds all around me shine;\nI drink thy sweet, thy precious word,\nI kneel before thy shrine!\n</poem>\n\nHe had to leave Hindu College on account of being a convert. In 1844, he resumed his education at Bishop's College, where he stayed for three years.\n\nIn 1847, he moved to Madras (Chennai) due to severe family tensions and economic hardship, having been disinherited by his father. While in Madras, he stayed in the Black Town neighbourhood, and began working as an \"usher\" at the Madras Male Orphan Asylum. Four years later, in 1851, he became a Second Tutor in the Madras University High School. In addition, he edited and assisted in editing the periodicals, \"Madras Circulator and General Chronicle, Athenaeum, Spectator\" and \"Hindoo Chronicle.\"\n\nDutt was greatly influenced by the works of William Wordsworth and John Milton. Dutt was a spirited bohemian and Romantic.\n\nDuring his stay in Madras, he published such works as \"King Porus\", \"The Captive Ladie\" (1849) - centered around King Prithviraj's elopement with the princess of Kannuaj- and \"Visions of the Past.\" The Hurkaru, a prominent periodical at the time gave the self-published \"The Captive Ladie\" unfavourable reviews, and was in Madhusudan's own words, \"was somewhat severe\". John Elliot Drinkwater Bethune, the then President of the Council of Education, was full of praise for the octosyllabic in his letter to Bysack, and advised Dutt to \"employ the taste and talents, which he has cultivated by the study of English, in improving the standard, and adding to the stock of the poetry of his own language.\"\n\nUnder the pseudonym, Timothy Penpoem, he published his poems in the periodicals he edited.\n\nThe period during which he worked as a head clerk and later as the Chief Interpreter in the court, marked his transition to writing in his native Bengali, following the advice of Bethune and Bysack. He wrote 5 plays: \"Sermista\" (1859)\", Padmavati\" (1859)\", Ekei Ki Boley Sabyata\" (1860), \"Krishna Kumari\" (1860) \"and Buro Shaliker Ghare Ron\" (1860). Then followed the narrative poems: \"Tilottama Sambhava Kavya\" (1861), \"Meghnad Badh Kavya\" (1861), \"Brajagana Kavya\" (1861) and \"Veerangana Kavya\" (1861). He also translated three plays from Bangla to English, including his own \"Sermista.\"\n\n\"Meghnad Badh Kavya, The Slaying of Meghnad,\" the story of the final fight and demise of Meghnad, the eldest son of Ravana, is unanimously hailed as his magnum opus, although his journey to publication and recognition was far from smooth. However, with its publication, he distinguished himself as a serious composer of an entirely new genre of heroic poetry, that was Homeric and Dantesque in technique and style, and yet so fundamentally native in theme. To cite the poet himself: \"\"I awoke one morning and found myself famous\".\" Nevertheless, it took a few years for this epic to win recognition all over the country.\n\nA volume of his Bangla sonnets was published in 1866. His final play, \"Maya Kannan\", was written in 1872. \"The Slaying of Hector\", his prose version of the \"Iliad\" remains incomplete.\n\nMadhusudan was a gifted linguist and polyglot. He studied Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Tamil, Telugu, and Sanskrit.\n\nHe dedicated his first sonnet to his friend Rajnarayan Basu, which he accompanied with a letter: \"What say you to this, my good friend? In my humble opinion, if cultivated by men of genius, our sonnet in time would rival the Italian.\" His most famous sonnet is \"Kapatakkha River\".\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nAlways, o river, you peep in my mind.\nAlways I think you in this loneliness.\nAlways I soothe my ears with the murmur\nOf your waters in illusion, the way\nMen hear songs of illusion in a dream.\nMany a river I have seen on earth;\nBut which can quench my thirst the way you do?\nYou’re the flow of milk in my homeland’s breasts.\nWill I meet you ever? As long as you\nGo to kinglike ocean to pay the tax\nOf water, I beg to you, sing my name\nInto the ears of people of Bengal,\nSing his name, o dear, who in this far land\nSings your name in all his songs for Bengal.\n</poem>\n\nWhen Dutt later stayed in Versailles, the sixth centenary of the Italian poet Dante Alighieri was being celebrated all over Europe. He composed a poem in honour of the poet, translated it into French and Italian, and sent it to the king of Italy. Victor Emmanuel II, then monarch, liked the poem and wrote to Dutt, saying, \"It will be a ring which will connect the Orient with the Occident.\"\n\n\"Sharmistha\" (spelt as \"Sermista\" in English) was Dutt's first attempt at blank verse in Bengali literature. Kaliprasanna Singha organised a felicitation ceremony to Madhusudan to mark the introduction of blank verse in Bengali poetry.\n\nPraising Dutt's blank verse, Sir Ashutosh Mukherjee, observed: \"As long as the Bengali race and Bengali literature would exist, the sweet lyre of Madhusudan would never cease playing.\" He added: \"Ordinarily, reading of poetry causes a soporific effect, but the intoxicating vigour of Madhusudan's poems makes even a sick man sit up on his bed.\"\n\nIn his \"The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian,\" Nirad C. Chaudhuri has remarked that during his childhood days in Kishoreganj, a common standard for testing guests' erudition in the Bengali language during family gatherings was to require them to recite the poetry of Dutt, without an accent.\n\nDutt went to England in 1862 to become a Barrister-at-Law, and enrolled at the Gray's Inn.\n\nOn the eve of his departure to England:<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nForget me not, O Mother,\nShould I fail to return\nTo thy hallowed bosom.\nMake not the lotus of thy memory\nVoid of its nectar Madhu.\n</poem>\n\nHis family joined him in 1863, and thereafter they shifted to the much cheaper Versailles, due to the miserable state of their finances. Funds were not arriving from India according to his plans. He was only able to relocate to England in 1865 and study for the bar due to the munificent generosity of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. For this, Dutt was to regard Vidyasagar as \"Dayar Sagar\" (meaning \"the ocean of kindness\") for as long as he lived. He was admitted to the High Court in Calcutta on his return in February 1867. His family followed him in 1869.\n\nHis stay in England had left him disillusioned with European culture. He wrote to his friend Bysack from France: \n\nDutt had refused to enter into an arranged marriage which his father had decided for him. He had no respect for that tradition and wanted to break free from the confines of caste-based endogamous marriage. His knowledge of the European tradition convinced him of the superiority of marriages made by mutual consent (or love marriages).\n\nHe was the first Indian to marry a European or Anglo-Indian woman. While in Madras he married Indo-Scottish-Britton, Rebecca Thompson McTavish, a 17-year-old resident of the Madras Female Orphan Asylum, on 31 July 1848. Dutt assumed the name Michael when the marriage was registered in the baptismal register. They had four children together. He wrote to Bysack in December 1855:\n\nDutt returned from Madras to Calcutta in February 1856, after his father's death (in 1855), abandoning his wife and four children in Madras. No records of his divorce from Rebecca or remarriage have been found. In 1858, he was joined there by a 22 year old of French extraction, Emelia Henrietta Sophie White, the daughter of his colleague at the Madras Male Orphan Asylum. They had two sons, Frederick Michael Milton (23 July 1861 - 11 June 1875) and Albert Napoleon (1869 - 22 August 1909), and a daughter, Henrietta Elizabeth Sermista (1859 - 15 February 1879). A fourth child was stillborn. Their relationship lasted until the end of his life, Henrietta pre-deceasing him by three days, on 26 June 1873.\n\nRebecca died in Madras in July 1892. Only a daughter and a son survived her. The son, McTavish-Dutt, parctised as a pleader in the Court of Small Causes in Madras.\n\nThe tennis player Leander Paes is a direct descendant of his- Dutt is his great great grandfather on his mother's side.\n\nMadhusudan died in Calcutta General Hospital on 29 June 1873. Just three days prior to his death, Madhusudan recited a passage from Shakespeare's Macbeth to his dear friend Bysack, to express his deepest conviction of life:\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\n...out, out, brief candle!\nLife's but a walking shadow; a poor player,\nThat struts and frets his hour upon the stage,\nAnd then is heard no more; it is a tale Told by an idiot,\nfull of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.\n</poem>\n\nDutt was largely ignored for 15 years after his death. The belated tribute was a tomb erected at his gravesite.\n\nHis epitaph, a verse of his own, reads:\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nStop a while, traveller!\nShould Mother Bengal claim thee for her son.\nAs a child takes repose on his mother's elysian lap,\nEven so here in the Long Home,\nOn the bosom of the earth,\nEnjoys the sweet eternal sleep\nPoet Madhusudan of the Duttas.\n</poem>\n\nIshwar Chandra Vidyasagar said:\nIn the words of Sri Aurobindo: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21631807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21631807", "title": "Naval drifter", "text": "Naval drifter\n\nA naval drifter is a boat built along the lines of a commercial fishing drifter but fitted out for naval purposes. The use of naval drifters is paralleled by the use of naval trawlers.\n\nFishing trawlers were designed to tow heavy trawls, so they were easily adapted to tow minesweepers, with the crew and layout already suited to the task. Drifters were robust boats built, like trawlers, to work in most weather conditions, but designed to deploy and retrieve drift nets. They were generally smaller and slower than trawlers. If requisitioned by navies, they were typically armed with an anti-submarine gun and depth charges and used to maintain and patrol anti-submarine nets.\n\nLike fishing trawlers, the Royal Navy requisitioned many fishing drifters for conversion to naval use during World War I.\n\nIn addition, 362 naval drifters were ordered to Admiralty specifications (and thus are often referred to as \"Admiralty drifters\"). Shipyards used to building fishing trawlers or drifters could easily switch to constructing naval versions. As a bonus these drifters could be sold to commercial fishing interests when the war ended.\n\nThere were two basic types of Admiralty-built drifters, wooden hulled and steel hulled.\n\n\nRoyal Navy drifters were named like the trawlers were, except for the Canadian-built vessels which were numbered CD 1 to CD 100.\n\nDuring 1917, a fleet of British drifters, escorted by destroyers and light cruisers, maintained a blockade of the wide Strait of Otranto, denying the Austro-Hungarian Navy access to the Mediterranean. On 15 May 1917, the Austro-Hungarian Navy raided the barrage.<ref name=\"Halpern162/3\">Halpern, p. 162–163</ref> The Austro-Hungarians gave most drifter crews warning to abandon ship before opening fire. Some drifter crews chose to fight, and the \"Gowan Lee\" returned fire on the Austro-Hungarian ships. The drifter was heavily damaged, but remained afloat. Skipper Joseph Watt was later awarded the Victoria Cross for his actions during the battle. Of the 47 drifters in the barrage at the time, 14 were sunk and 4 were damaged. The lack of sufficient Allied escorts forced the withdrawal of the remaining blockading ships, although only for a short time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17805150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17805150", "title": "Nepali phonology", "text": "Nepali phonology\n\nNepali is the national language of Nepal. Besides being spoken as a mother tongue by more than 48% of the population of Nepal, it is also spoken in Bhutan and India. The language is recognized in the Nepali constitution as an official language of Nepal.\n\nThe variety presented here is standard Nepali as spoken in Nepal. There are three major dialects: eastern, central, and western. Though many dialects can be distinguished in Nepal and other South Asian countries, there is reported to be little variation in phonology from one to another.\n\nNepali has 11 phonologically distinctive vowels, including 6 oral vowels and 5 nasal vowels (indicated in the IPA with tildes ). In addition, due to a process of h-deletion, there are words in which some speakers produce long vowels, such as ('mountain'), analyzed phonemically as .\n\nAs the above list shows, there are five nasal vowels. The high mid back vowel does not have a nasal counterpart at the phonological level; although the vowel does exist phonetically in the language, it is often in free variation with its oral counterpart, as in ~ 'short', ~ 'sheep'. Nasal vowels are not frequent in the Nepali lexicon, compared to a language such as French in which the number of nasal vowels is large. They occur mostly in verbs.\n\nAccording to , the evidence for the distinctiveness of vowel nasalization is not nearly as strong as that for the distinctiveness of the six oral vowels. They state that minimal pairs are easily obtainable only for the vowel . Examples are shown below:\n\n\nOther minimal pairs include ('name') vs. ('barber') and ('village') vs. ('sing' 2nd p. sg. imperative). At the phonetic level, oral vowels can be nasalized when following a nasal consonant.\n\n followed two diphthongs first elaborated by Shivaraja Acharya in वर्णोच्चारण शिक्षा in 1974.\n\nSpoken Nepali has 33 consonants in its native system though some have tried to limit the number to 27.\n\nThe glides and are nonsyllabic variants of and , respectively. All consonants but these two, , and may also occur as geminates between vowels. Apart from forming lexically distinctive words, as in ('unstable') and ('slipper'), gemination also forms the intensive degree of adjectives, as in ('very delicious'), compare ('delicious').\n\nThe murmured stops may lose their breathy-voice between vowels and word-finally. Non-geminate aspirated and murmured stops may also become fricatives (e.g. 'clean' → ; 'before' → ).\n\nTypically, sounds transcribed with the retroflex symbols are not purely retroflex but apical postalveolar . Some speakers may use purely retroflex sounds after and , but other speakers use the apical articulation in all positions.\n\nMostly words from Sanskrit have consonants that are not very common in inventory of the spoken language, occurring in borrowed words where they are prescriptively pronounced as described in Sanskrit grammars. The retroflex nasal occurs in the speech of some speakers, in words such as ('arrow'). It is flapped before other retroflex consonants and in spelling pronunciations of some loanwords in Sanskrit. A posterior sibilant occurs in such words as ('king'). The language does not have any minimal pairs opposing and , and speakers sometimes use these sounds interchangeably.\n\n"}
{"id": "38348952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38348952", "title": "Ngubi language", "text": "Ngubi language\n\nNgubi (Ngove) is a minor Bantu language of Gabon.\n"}
{"id": "17670900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17670900", "title": "Olav Nygard", "text": "Olav Nygard\n\nOlav Nygard (July 10, 1884, Modalen – February 11, 1924) was a Norwegian poet from Modalen in Hordaland. Nygard is now considered one of the most important Norwegian authors of his time, but was, however, not especially acknowledged while alive.\n\nNygard was born in an isolated farm in the rural district of Modalen, Norway, being the second youngest of altogether ten siblings. He started writing relatively early, mainly poems, and was soon determined to become a full-time writer. His childhood, however, was not easy, losing his mother at the age of ten, and having to work at his father's farm after finishing elementary school. He was a very gifted wood carver, creating, among other things, his own fiddle, which he would use playing at local dancing arrangements. He had a special interest in the local dialect, collecting tales and words told by his father. Finally, during his 1904-1905 stay at Møre Folkehøgskule in Ørsta, Nygard came in touch with a more academic group of people. He met Petra Krøvel, his first wife, who died of tuberculosis shortly afterwards. From 1909-1910 he lived in Oslo, partially at Labråten, the Asker residence of Arne Garborg. The advice and support of him and his wife Hulda Garborg were of great importance for Nygard, even later on in life. Nygard made his living in several different professions, but mostly as a self-dependent farmer. In 1912 he married Rakel Tvedt, with whom he had a son in 1916. The little family had money problems almost constantly, making Nygard's artistic work difficult. As his first wife, Nygard suffered from tubercolosis. He seemed for a while to be recovering, but eventually died in 1924.\n\nNygard almost exclusively wrote poetry. He was not notably influenced by other Norwegian authors at his time, wrtiting in a fashion quite different from the trend. Henrik Wergeland, though, was a major source of inspiration. So was also British authors like William Shakespeare and John Keats, not to mention Robert Burns, of whom Nygard translated several poems.\n\nNygard is himself within a clearly romantic tradition, but with a very distinctive tone. What most obviously separates him from the increasingly modernistic authors of his own time, is the archaic language he always uses. It is Nynorsk, but shaped by his own dialect and with a vast variety of words, many of them endemic to his own poetic production. He frequently puts words together in unexpected ways, thus creating several hundred new words found only in these poems. Sadly, it is also Nygard's rich language that has become the biggest obstacle for new readers, having sometimes difficulties understanding the content. If one, however, gets to the bottom of possible language barriers, one comes to discover a poetry dealing with many of life's greatest issues. Nygard is said, possibly because of his early death and rather sorrowfull life, to be concerned very much with death in his poems. To some extent, this is indeed true. But it is also a vibrant poetry, using powerful images and connecting the forces of life, death and nature in a vital, ambitious way. Nature is often represented in metaphores, sometimes with a mystic and even erotic use of images. Some modernistic patterns can be found especially in his later poetry, such as the occurrence of a \"meta\"-perspective on his own role as a poet. But while many authors of his time wrote in a more realistic and concrete fashion, Nygard held on to an almost cosmological style.\n\nAlthough rarely read by most, Nygard is considered an important author in the change from late romantic to modernistic Norwegian literature, and a major poetic talent. Norwegian author Claes Gill is known to have stated about Nygard, that he, \"[...] if writing in a World language, would have been among the greatest poets in international literature.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4498912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4498912", "title": "Oscar Milosz", "text": "Oscar Milosz\n\nOscar Vladislas de Lubicz Milosz (; Polish: Oskar Władysław Miłosz) (28 May 1877 – 2 March 1939) was a French language poet, playwright, novelist, essayist and representative of Lithuania at the League of Nations. His literary career began at the end of the nineteenth century during \"la Belle Époque\" and reached its high point in the mid-1920s with the books \"Ars Magna\" and \"Les Arcanes\", in which he developed a highly personal and dense Christian cosmogony comparable to that of Dante in \"The Divine Comedy\" and John Milton in \"Paradise Lost\". A solitary and unique twentieth-century metaphysician, his poems are visionary and often tormented. He was a distant cousin of Polish writer Czesław Miłosz, winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 1980.\n\nOscar Milosz was born in Čareja, Minsk Governorate, Russian Empire those times, now territory of Belarus, where he also spent his childhood. His father, Vladislas de Lubicz Milosz, was ethnically Lithuanian, nominally Catholic, and for a time an officer in the Russian army. His mother, Marie Rosalie Rosenthal, was Jewish, the daughter of a Hebrew professor at the University of Warsaw. The family spoke Polish at home. Oscar was baptized a Catholic on 2 July 1886, at St. Alexander's Church in Warsaw. In 1889, when he was 12, his parents placed him at the Lycée Janson de Sailly in Paris. He began writing poems in 1894 and started to frequent artistic circles, meeting Oscar Wilde and Jean Moréas. After finishing at the Lycée, he enrolled at the École des langues orientales, where he studied Syriac and Hebrew.\n\nHis first book of verse, \"Le Poème des Décadences\", appeared in 1899. In the first years of the twentieth century, Milosz travelled widely in Europe and North Africa and explored many foreign literatures. A European poet of the French language, Milosz was an excellent linguist and was fluent in French, Polish, Russian, English, German, Italian, and Spanish as well as being able to read Latin and Hebrew. Later in life, he would also learn Lithuanian and Basque.\n\nMilosz published his second poetry collection, the more accomplished \"Les Sept Solitudes\", in 1906. He then entered into a phase of literary experimentation during which he tried his hand at a novel, \"L'Amoureuse Initiation,\" published in 1910, and three \"mystery dramas,\" the most popular of these plays being \"Miguel Mañara\" (1913), a reworking of the Don Juan myth. During this time he also composed his third poetry collection, \"Les\" \"Éléments\" (1911).\n\nOn 14 December 1914, while praying at the end of an evening of intensive reading of the Bible and Emanuel Swedenborg, Milosz experienced an illumination, a divine vision that led him to proclaim the next day to one of his friends: \"I have seen the spiritual sun.\" In the wake of this vision, his poetry became more profound. He began to study the Kabbalah, and Renaissance and Baroque alchemists and mystics like Paracelsus and Jacob Boehme. After 1916, as the development of his metaphysics became his major poetic preoccupation, Milosz convinced himself that his cosmogonic system was supported by Einstein's theory of relativity. Then, turning his back on \"occult\" reading and friends, like the numerologist René Schwaller de Lubicz, he began to study medieval science and thinkers like the English scholastic Robert Grosseteste. Finally, in 1927 he took a Father Confessor and became a practicing Roman Catholic, which he remained for the last twelve years of his life.\n\nIn 1916, during World War I, Milosz was conscripted to the Russian division of the French army and was assigned to the press corps. After the Russian Revolution of October 1917, Čareja was seized by the Soviets. Suddenly, access to his family fortune was cut off and Milosz needed to earn a living. Around this time he learned about the growing movement for Lithuanian independence. By the end of the war when both Lithuania and Poland were effectively independent again, Milosz chose to identify with Lithuania - even though he did not yet speak Lithuanian — because he believed that it had been the original homeland of his ancestors in the 13th century. In 1920 when France recognized the independence of Lithuania, he was officially appointed Chargé d'Affaires for the new state. Milosz's diplomatic career remains one of the more fascinating aspects of his legacy; his articles and correspondence in the service of the reborn Lithuanian state show a high level of nuance and rigor. In 1931 he became a French citizen and was awarded the Légion d'honneur.\n\nShortly after retiring from his diplomatic post and ill with cancer, he died of a heart attack in 1939 at a house he had recently purchased in Fontainebleau.\n\nMilosz was largely neglected during his lifetime. He has increasingly, however, come to be considered an important figure in French poetry. In a 1926 letter to James Chouvet, he writes: \"... [my] studies have taught me the only thing they could. Namely, that the truth is one, and that some respect and love are enough to discover it in the depths of our consciousness.\" As well as being a writer of great erudition and breadth, Milosz edited three books of Lithuanian folk tales and songs.\n\nSome of his works in French:\n\nWorks translated into English: \n\nOpera based on his poems: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1964701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1964701", "title": "Photoperiodism", "text": "Photoperiodism\n\nPhotoperiodism is the physiological reaction of organisms to the length of day or night. It occurs in plants and animals. Photoperiodism can also be defined as the developmental responses of plants to the relative lengths of light and dark periods.\nThey are classified under three groups according to the photoperiods,they are:\n1. Short-day plants\n2. Long-day plants\n3. Day-neutral plants.\n\nMany flowering plants (angiosperms) use a photoreceptor protein, such as phytochrome or cryptochrome, to sense seasonal changes in night length, or photoperiod, which they take as signals to flower. In a further subdivision, \"obligate\" photoperiodic plants absolutely require a long or short enough night before flowering, whereas \"facultative\" photoperiodic plants are more likely to flower under one condition.\n\nPhytochrome comes in two forms: pr and pfr. Red light (which is present during the day) converts phytochrome to its active form (pfr). This then triggers the plant to grow. In turn, far-red light is present in the shade or in the dark and this converts phytochrome from pfr to pr. Pr is the inactive form of phytochrome and will not allow for plant growth. This system of pfr to pr conversion allows the plant to sense when it is night and when it is day. Pfr can also be convereted back to Pr by a process known as dark reversion, where long periods of darkness trigger the conversion of Pfr. This is important in regards to plant flowering. Experiments by Halliday et al. showed that manipulations of the red-to far-red ratio in Arabidopsis can alter flowering. They discovered that plants tend to flower later when exposed to more red light, proving that red light is inhibitory to flowering. Other experiments have proven this by exposing plants to extra red-light in the middle of the night. A short-day plant will not flower if light is turned on for a few minutes in the middle of the night and a long-day plant can flower if exposed to more red-light in the middle of the night.\n\nCryptochromes are another type of photoreceptor that is important in photoperiodism. Cryptochromes absorb blue light and UV-A. Cryptochromes entrain the circadian clock to light. It has been found that both cryptochrome and phytochrome abundance relies on light and the amount of cryptochrome can change depending on day-length. This shows how important both of the photoreceptors are in regards to determining day-length.\n\nIn 1920, W. W. Garner and H. A. Allard published their discoveries on photoperiodism and felt it was the length of daylight that was critical, but it was later discovered that the length of the night was the controlling factor. Photoperiodic flowering plants are classified as \"long-day plants\" or \"short-day plants\" even though night is the critical factor because of the initial misunderstanding about daylight being the controlling factor. Along with long-day plants and short-day plants, there are plants that fall into a \"dual-day length category\". These plants are either long-short-day plants (LSDP) or short-long-day plants (SLDP). LSDPs flower after a series of long days followed by short days whereas SLDPs flower after a series of short days followed by long days. Each plant has a different length critical photoperiod, or critical night length.\n\nModern biologists believe that it is the coincidence of the active forms of phytochrome or cryptochrome, created by light during the daytime, with the rhythms of the circadian clock that allows plants to measure the length of the night. Other than flowering, photoperiodism in plants includes the growth of stems or roots during certain seasons and the loss of leaves. Artificial lighting can be used to induce extra-long days.\n\nLong-day plants flower when the night length falls below their critical photoperiod. These plants typically flower in the northern hemisphere during late spring or early summer as days are getting longer. In the northern hemisphere, the longest day of the year (summer solstice) is on or about 21 June. After that date, days grow shorter (i.e. nights grow longer) until 21 December (the winter solstice). This situation is reversed in the southern hemisphere (i.e., longest day is 21 December and shortest day is 21 June).\n\nSome long-day obligate plants are:\n\nSome long-day facultative plants are:\n\nShort-day plants flower when the night lengths exceed their critical photoperiod. They cannot flower under short nights or if a pulse of artificial light is shone on the plant for several minutes during the night; they require a continuous period of darkness before floral development can begin. Natural nighttime light, such as moonlight or lightning, is not of sufficient brightness or duration to interrupt flowering.\n\nIn general, short-day (i.e.long-night) plants flower as days grow shorter (and nights grow longer) after 21 June in the northern hemisphere, which is during summer or fall. The length of the dark period required to induce flowering differs among species and varieties of a species.\n\nPhotoperiodism affects flowering by inducing the shoot to produce floral buds instead of leaves and lateral buds.\n\nSome short-day facultative plants are:\n\n\nDay-neutral plants, such as cucumbers, roses, and tomatoes, do not initiate flowering based on photoperiodism. Instead, they may initiate flowering after attaining a certain overall developmental stage or age, or in response to alternative environmental stimuli, such as vernalisation (a period of low temperature).\n\nDaylength, and thus knowledge of the season of the year, is vital to many animals. A number of biological and behavioural changes are dependent on this knowledge. Together with temperature changes, photoperiod provokes changes in the color of fur and feathers, migration, entry into hibernation, sexual behaviour, and even the resizing of sexual organs.\n\nThe singing frequency of birds such as the canary depends on the photoperiod. In the spring, when the photoperiod increases (more daylight), the male canary's testes grow. As the testes grow, more androgens are secreted and song frequency increases. During autumn, when the photoperiod decreases (less daylight), the male canary's testes regress and androgen levels drop dramatically, resulting in decreased singing frequency. Not only is singing frequency dependent on the photoperiod but the song repertoire is also. The long photoperiod of spring results in a greater song repertoire. Autumn's shorter photoperiod results in a reduction in song repertoire. These behavioral photoperiod changes in male canaries are caused by changes in the song center of the brain. As the photoperiod increases, the high vocal center (HVC) and the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA) increase in size. When the photoperiod decreases, these areas of the brain regress.\n\nIn mammals, daylength is registered in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which is informed by retinal light-sensitive ganglion cells, which are not involved in vision. The information travels through the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT). Some mammals are highly seasonal, while humans' seasonality is largely believed to be evolutionary baggage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8225458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8225458", "title": "Pilagá language", "text": "Pilagá language\n\nPilagá is a Guaicuruan language spoken by 4,000 people in the Bermejo and Pilcomayo River valleys, western Formosa Province, in northeastern Argentina.\n\nThe geographical distribution into communities is permeated by pan-Chacoan social organization of people into bands. \n\nAccording to Braunstein (1983), among the Chaco groups several bands constitute a ‘tribe’, identified by a common name and associated by marriage and exchange. He states that tribes have been preferably endogamous, with uxirolocal postmarital residence. Among the Pilagá, tribes have identified with names of regional animals and these traditional denominations persist in present times.\n\nAs many anthropologists have noted, the Chaco groups, including the Pilagá, have been hunter-gatherers. Hunting includes fishing and collection of honey. Hunting is exclusively the domain of men, while gathering of wild fruits, palm hearts, mesquite (prosopis sp.) and firewood is done regularly by women. The major animals hunted are species of deers and armadillos. Among the fish specimens are surubí (Pseudoplatysoma coruscans), pacú (colossoma mitrei) and dorado (salminus maxillosus).\n\nWith the advancement of European contact since the conquest, and with the establishment at different times of colonies, farms and missions, Chaco groups, including the Pilagá, began losing their territories. They became confined to smaller portions of lands, and as a consequence, they discontinued their hunter-gathering activities. Today, with sedentarization, Pilagá people combine traditional practices with land-cultivation and cattle-raising at a small scale, and the commerce of basketery, tapestry and wooden artifacts.\n\nPilagá belongs to the grouping of Guaykuruan (also spelled ‘Waikuruan’ or ‘Guaicuruan’) languages spoken in the Gran Chaco of South America. The word Chaco, of Quichua origin, means ‘territory of hunting’ (Cordeu and Siffredi 1971:5). The Gran Chaco covers an area of about 1 million square kilometers, of which 50% is on Argentinean land, and the other half distributed between Paraguay, Bolivia and Brazil (Karlin et alt. 1994). \nOut of the six languages that have been claimed to belong to this family, only four i.e., Kadiwéu (or Caduveo), Mocoví, Pilagá and Toba are currently spoken. The other two, Abipón and Mbayá became extinct more than a century ago.\n\nPilagá enjoys a good level of vitality, being the first language children acquire before starting school. \nHowever, Formosa’s Ministry of Education has not developed key bilingual educational programs or curriculum for the Pilagá. Moreover, only a few schools (six of a total of sixteen) have Pilagá-speaking aides working together with certified teachers as translators. However, the program is rather ineffective for lack of scope or sequence for Pilagá instruction and few didactic materials.\nEven though Pilagá use in daily communication between adults connotes solidarity, younger speakers use code-switching apparently to fill gaps in their knowledge of the vernacular language. \nThose areas where Pilagá language and traditions are best preserved are the rural communities. However, the lack of native-language schooling to Pilagá children makes the future of the language bleak.\n\nThe inventory includes obstruents and sonorants, totalizing eighteen consonant phonemes, and four vowels. In 1996 the Pilagá designed the orthographic system currently used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49502684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49502684", "title": "Renate Bartsch", "text": "Renate Bartsch\n\nRenate Irmtraut Bartsch (born 12 December 1939) is a German philosopher of language. She was a professor at the University of Amsterdam between 1974 and 2004.\n\nBartsch was born on 12 December 1939 in Königsberg. She earned her Doctor title at Heidelberg University in 1967 with a thesis titled: \"Grundzüge einer empiristischen Bedeutungstheorie\". Bartsch worked as professor of philosophy of language at the University of Amsterdam from 1974 until she retired in 2004.\n\nBartsch became a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "26042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26042", "title": "Revelation", "text": "Revelation\n\nIn religion and theology, revelation is the revealing or disclosing of some form of truth or knowledge through communication with a deity or other supernatural entity or entities.\n\nSome religions have religious texts which they view as divinely or supernaturally revealed or inspired. For instance, Orthodox Jews, Christians and Muslims believe that the \"Torah\" was received from Yahweh on biblical Mount Sinai. Most Christians believe that both the Old Testament and the New Testament were inspired by God. Muslims believe the Quran was revealed by God to Muhammad word by word through the angel Gabriel (\"Jibril\"). In Hinduism, some Vedas are considered \"\", \"not human compositions\", and are supposed to have been directly revealed, and thus are called \"śruti\", \"what is heard\". The 15,000 handwritten pages produced by the mystic Maria Valtorta were represented as direct dictations from Jesus, while she attributed \"The Book of Azariah\" to her guardian angel. Aleister Crowley stated that \"The Book of the Law\" had been revealed to him through a higher being that called itself \"Aiwass\".\n\nA revelation communicated by a supernatural entity reported as being present during the event is called a vision. Direct conversations between the recipient and the supernatural entity, or physical marks such as stigmata, have been reported. In rare cases, such as that of Saint Juan Diego, physical artifacts accompany the revelation. The Roman Catholic concept of interior locution includes just an inner voice heard by the recipient.\n\nIn the Abrahamic religions, the term is used to refer to the process by which God reveals knowledge of himself, his will, and his divine providence to the world of human beings. In secondary usage, revelation refers to the resulting human knowledge about God, prophecy, and other divine things. Revelation from a supernatural source plays a less important role in some other religious traditions such as Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism.\n\nRevelation may be defined as the communication of some truth by God to a rational creature through means which are beyond the ordinary course of nature. George Joyce draws a distinction between revelation and inspiration. Inspiration – such as that bestowed by God on the author of a sacred book – involves a special illumination of the mind, in virtue of which the recipient conceives such thoughts as God desires him to commit to writing, and does not necessarily involve supernatural communication.\n\nWith the Age of Enlightenment in Europe, beginning about the mid-17th century, the development of rationalism, materialism and atheism, the concept of supernatural revelation itself faced skepticism. In \"The Age of Reason\" (1794–1809), Thomas Paine develops the theology of deism, rejecting the possibility of miracles and arguing that a revelation can be considered valid only for the original recipient.\n\nThomas Aquinas believed in two types of individual revelation from God, \"general revelation\" and \"special revelation\". In general revelation, God reveals himself through his creation, such that at least some truths about God can be learned by the empirical study of nature, physics, cosmology, etc., to an individual. Special revelation is the knowledge of God and spiritual matters which can be discovered through supernatural means, such as scripture or miracles, by individuals. Direct revelation refers to communication from God to someone in particular.\n\nThough one may deduce the existence of God and some of God's attributes through general revelation, certain specifics may be known only through special revelation. Aquinas believed that special revelation is equivalent to the revelation of God in Jesus. The major theological components of Christianity, such as the Trinity and the Incarnation, are revealed in the teachings of the church and the scriptures and may not otherwise be deduced. Special revelation and natural revelation are complementary rather than contradictory in nature.\n\n\"Continuous revelation\" is a term for the theological position that God continues to reveal divine principles or commandments to humanity.\n\nIn the 20th century, religious existentialists proposed that revelation held no content in and of itself but rather that God inspired people with his presence by coming into contact with them. Revelation is a human response that records how we respond to God.\n\nSome religious groups believe a deity has been revealed or spoken to a large group of people or have legends to a similar effect. In the Book of Deuteronomy, Yahweh is said to have been revealed upon giving the Ten Commandments to the Israelites at Mount Sinai. In Christianity, the Book of Acts describes the Day of Pentecost wherein a large group of the followers of Jesus experienced mass revelation. The Lakota people believe Ptesáŋwiŋ spoke directly to the people in the establishment of Lakota religious traditions. Some versions of an Aztec legend tell of Huitzilopochtli speaking directly to the Aztec people upon their arrival at Anåhuac. Historically, some emperors, cult leaders, and other figures have also been deified and treated as though their words are themselves revelations.\n\nSome people hold that God can communicate with man in a way that gives direct, propositional content: This is termed \"verbal revelation\". Orthodox Judaism and some forms of Christianity hold that the first five books of Moses were dictated by God in such a fashion.\n\nOne school of thought holds that revelation is non-verbal and non-literal, yet it may have propositional content. People were divinely inspired by God with a message, but not in a verbal-like fashion.\n\nRabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel has written, \"To convey what the prophets experienced, the Bible could either use terms of descriptions or terms of indication. Any description of the act of revelation in empirical categories would have produced a caricature. That is why all the Bible does is to state that revelation happened; how it happened is something they could only convey in words that are evocative and suggestive.\"\n\nIsaiah writes that he received his message through visions, where he would see YHWH, the God of Israel, speaking to angelic beings that surrounded him. Isaiah would then write down the dialogue exchanged between YHWH and the angels. This form of revelation constitutes the major part of the text of the Book of Isaiah. The same formula of divine revelation is used by other prophets throughout the Tanakh, such as Micaiah in 1 Kings 22:19–22.\n\nMembers of Abrahamic religions, including Judaism, Christianity and Islam, believe that God exists and can in some way reveal his will to people. Members of those religions distinguish between true prophets and false prophets, and there are documents offering criteria by which to distinguish true from false prophets. The question of epistemology then arises: how to know?\n\nSome believe that revelation can originate directly from a deity or through an agent such as an angel. One who has experienced such contact with, or communication from, the divine is often called a prophet. An article (p. 555) under the heading \"mysticism,\" and contributed by Ninian Smart, J. F. Rowny Professor of Comparative Religion, University of California, and President of the American Academy of Religion, writing in the 1999 edition of \"The Norton Dictionary of Modern Thought,\" (W. W. Norton & Co. Inc.), suggests that the more proper and wider term for such an encounter would be mystical, making such a person a mystic. All prophets would be mystics, but not all mystics would be prophets.\n\nRevelation from a supernatural source is of lesser importance in some other religious traditions, such as Taoism and Confucianism.\n\nThe Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá received thousands of written enquiries, and wrote thousands of responses, hundreds of which amount to whole and proper books, while many are shorter texts, such as letters. In addition, the Bahá'í faith has large works which were divinely revealed in a very short time, as in a night, or a few days. Additionally, because many of the works were first recorded by an amanuensis, most were submitted for approval and correction and the final text was personally approved by the revelator.\n\nBahá'u'lláh would occasionally write the words of revelation down himself, but normally the revelation was dictated to his amanuensis, who sometimes recorded it in what has been called \"revelation writing\", a shorthand script written with extreme speed owing to the rapidity of the utterance of the words. Afterwards, Bahá'u'lláh revised and approved these drafts. These \"revelation drafts\" and many other transcriptions of Bahá'u'lláh's writings, around 15,000 items, some of which are in his own handwriting, are kept in the International Bahá'í Archives in Haifa, Israel.\n\nMany Christians believe in the possibility and even reality of private revelations, messages from God for individuals, which can come in a variety of ways. Montanism is an example in early Christianity and there are alleged cases today also. However, Christians see as of a much higher level the revelation recorded in the collection of books known as the Bible. They consider these books to be written by human authors under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. They regard Jesus as the supreme revelation of God, with the Bible being a revelation in the sense of a witness to him. The \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" states that \"the Christian faith is not a 'religion of the book.' Christianity is the religion of the 'Word of God', a word which is 'not a written and mute word, but the Word which is incarnate and living\".\n\nGregory and Nix speak of Biblical inerrancy as meaning that, in its original form, the Bible is totally without error, and free from all contradiction, including the historical and scientific parts. Coleman speaks of Biblical infallibility as meaning that the Bible is inerrant on issues of faith and practice but not history or science. The Catholic Church speaks not about infallibility of Scripture but about its freedom from error, holding \"the doctrine of the inerrancy of Scripture\". The Second Vatican Council, citing earlier declarations, stated: \"Since everything asserted by the inspired authors or sacred writers must be held to be asserted by the Holy Spirit, it follows that the books of Scripture must be acknowledged as teaching solidly, faithfully and without error that truth which God wanted put into sacred writings for the sake of salvation\". It added: \"Since God speaks in Sacred Scripture through men in human fashion, the interpreter of Sacred Scripture, in order to see clearly what God wanted to communicate to us, should carefully investigate what meaning the sacred writers really intended, and what God wanted to manifest by means of their words.\" The Reformed Churches believe in the Bible is inerrant in the sense spoken of by Gregory and Nix and \"deny that Biblical infallibility and inerrancy are limited to spiritual, religious, or redemptive themes, exclusive of assertions in the fields of history and science\". The Westminster Confession of Faith speaks of \"the infallible truth and divine authority\" of the Scriptures.\n\nIn the New Testament, Jesus treats the Old Testament as authoritative and says it \"cannot be broken\" (). 2 Timothy says: \"All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness\". The Second Epistle of Peter claims that \"no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit\" (). It also speaks of Paul's letters as containing some things \"hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do the other Scriptures\".\n\nThis letter does not specify \"the other Scriptures\", nor does the term \"all Scripture\" in 2 Timothy indicate which writings were or would be breathed out by God and useful for teaching, since it does not preclude later works, such as the Book of Revelation and the Epistles of John may have been. The Catholic Church recognizes 73 books as inspired and forming the Bible (46 books of the Old Testament and 27 books of the New Testament). The most common versions of the Bible that Protestants have today consist of 66 of these books. None of the 66 or 73 books gives a list of revealed books.\n\nTheologian and Christian existentialist philosopher Paul Johannes Tillich (1886–1965), who sought to correlate culture and faith so that \"faith need not be unacceptable to contemporary culture and contemporary culture need not be unacceptable to faith\", argued that revelation never runs counter to reason (affirming Thomas Aquinas who said that faith is eminently rational), and that both poles of the subjective human experience are complementary.\n\nKarl Barth argued that God is the object of God’s own self-knowledge, and revelation in the Bible means the self-unveiling to humanity of the God who cannot be discovered by humanity simply through its own efforts. For him, the Bible is not \"The Revelation\"; rather, it points to revelation. Human concepts can never be considered as identical to God's revelation, and Scripture is written in human language, expressing human concepts. It cannot be considered identical with God's revelation. However, God does reveal himself through human language and concepts, and thus Christ is truly presented in scripture and the preaching of the church.\n\nThis denomination believes that the president of the church receives revelation directly from God for the direction of the church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and some other Latter Day Saint denominations claim to be led by revelation from God to a living prophet, who receives God’s word, just as Abraham, Moses, other ancient prophets and apostles did.\n\nLatter-day Saints believe in an open scriptural canon, and in addition to the Bible and the Book of Mormon, have books of scripture containing the revelations of modern-day prophets such as the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. LDS Church leaders (from the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles) have taught during the church's General Conferences that conference talks which are \"…[spoken as] moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture…\". In addition, many Mormons believe that ancient prophets in other regions of the world received revelations that resulted in additional scriptures that have been lost and may, one day, be forthcoming. Hence, the belief in continuing revelation. Latter Day Saints also believe that the United States Constitution is a divinely inspired document.\n\nMormons sustain the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints as prophet, seer, and revelator—the only person on earth who receives revelation to guide the entire church. They also sustain the two counselors in the First Presidency, as well as the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, as prophets, seers, and revelators. They believe that God has followed a pattern of continued revelation to prophets throughout the history of mankind (KJV Luke 1:70)--both to establish doctrine and maintain its integrity, as well as to guide the church under changing world conditions. When this pattern of revelation was broken, it was because the receivers of revelation had been rejected and often killed (Matt 23:31–37, Luke 11:47–51). In the meridian of time, Paul described prophets and apostles in terms of a foundation, with Christ as the cornerstone, which was built to prevent doctrinal shift—\"that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about by every wind of doctrine\" (Eph 2:20 and 4:11–14, see also Matt 16:17–18). To maintain this foundation, new apostles were chosen and ordained to replace those lost to death or transgression, as when Matthias was called by revelation to replace Judas (Acts 1:15–26). However, as intensifying persecution led to the imprisonment and martyrdom of the apostles, it eventually became impossible to continue the apostolic succession. Once the foundation of apostles and prophets was lost, the integrity of Christian doctrine as established by Christ and the apostles began to be compromised by those who continued to develop doctrine despite not being called or authorized to receive revelation for the body of the church. In the absence of revelation, these post-apostolic theologians couldn’t help but introduce elements of human reasoning, speculation, and personal interpretation of scripture (2 Pet 1:19–20)—which over time led to the loss or corruption of various doctrinal truths, as well as the addition of new man-made doctrines. This naturally led to much disagreement and schism, which over the centuries culminated in the large number of Christian churches on the earth today. Mormons believe that God resumed his pattern of revelation when the world was again ready, by calling the Prophet Joseph Smith to restore the fullness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the earth. Since that time there has been a consistent succession of prophets and apostles, which God has promised will not be broken before the Second Coming of Christ (Dan 2:44).\n\nEach member of the LDS Church is also confirmed a member of the church following baptism and given the \"gift of the Holy Ghost\" by which each member is encouraged to develop a personal relationship with that divine being and receive personal revelation for their own direction and that of their family. The Latter Day Saint concept of revelation includes the belief that revelation from God is available to all those who earnestly seek it with the intent of doing good. It also teaches that everyone is entitled to \"personal\" revelation with respect to his or her stewardship (leadership responsibility). Thus, parents may receive inspiration from God in raising their families, individuals can receive divine inspiration to help them meet personal challenges, church officers may receive revelation for those whom they serve, and so forth.\n\nThe important consequence of this is that each person may receive confirmation that particular doctrines taught by a prophet are true, as well as gain divine insight in using those truths for their own benefit and eternal progress. In the church, personal revelation is expected and encouraged, and many converts believe that personal revelation from God was instrumental in their conversion. Joseph F. Smith, the sixth president of the LDS Church, summarized this church's belief concerning revelation by saying, \"We believe… in the principle of direct revelation from God to man.\" (Smith, 362)\n\nMuslims believe that God (Arabic: ألله \"Allah\") revealed his final message to all of existence through Muhammad via the angel Gabriel. Muhammad is considered to have been the Seal of the Prophets and the last revelation, the Qur'an, is believed by Muslims to be the flawless final revelation of God to humanity, valid until the Last Day. The Qur'an claims to have been revealed word by word and letter by letter.\n\nMuslims hold that the message of Islam is the same as the message preached by all the messengers sent by God to humanity since Adam. Muslims believe that Islam is the oldest of the monotheistic religions because it represents both the original and the final revelation of God to Abraham, Moses, David, Jesus, and Muhammad. Likewise, Muslims believe that every prophet received revelation in their lives, as each prophet was sent by God to guide mankind. Jesus is significant in this aspect as he received revelation in a twofold aspect, as Muslims believe he preached the Gospel while also having been taught the Torah.\n\nAccording to Islamic traditions, Muhammad began receiving revelations from the age of 40, delivered through the angel Gabriel over the last 23 years of his life. The content of these revelations, known as the Qur'an, was memorized and recorded by his followers and compiled from dozens of hafiz as well as other various parchments or hides into a single volume shortly after his death. In Muslim theology, Muhammad is considered equal in importance to all other prophets of God and to make distinction among the prophets is a sin, as the Qur'an itself promulgates equality between God's prophets.(Qur'an 3:84)\n\nMany scholars have made the distinction between revelation and inspiration, which according to Muslim theology, all righteous people can receive. Inspiration refers to God inspiring a person to commit some action, as opposed to revelation, which only the prophets received. Moses's mother, Jochebed, being inspired to send the infant Moses in a cradle down the Nile river is a frequently cited example of inspiration, as is Hagar searching for water for the infant Ishmael.\n\nThe term \"revelation\" is used in two senses in Jewish theology; it either denotes (1) what in rabbinical language is called \"Gilluy Shekinah,\" a manifestation of God by some wondrous act of His which overawes man and impresses him with what he sees, hears, or otherwise perceives of His glorious presence; or it denotes (2) a manifestation of His will through oracular words, signs, statutes, or laws.\n\nIn Judaism, issues of epistemology have been addressed by Jewish philosophers such as Saadiah Gaon (882–942) in his Book of Beliefs and Opinions; Maimonides (1135–1204) in his Guide for the Perplexed; Samuel Hugo Berman, professor of philosophy at the Hebrew University; Joseph Dov Soloveitchik (1903–1993), talmudic scholar and philosopher; Neil Gillman, professor of philosophy at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, and Elliot N. Dorff, professor of philosophy at the American Jewish University.\n\nOne of the major trends in modern Jewish philosophy was the attempt to develop a theory of Judaism through existentialism. One of the primary players in this field was Franz Rosenzweig. His major work, \"Star of Redemption\", expounds a philosophy in which he portrays the relationships between God, humanity and world as they are connected by creation, revelation and redemption.\nConservative Jewish philosophers Elliot N. Dorff and Neil Gillman take the existentialist philosophy of Rosenzweig as one of their starting points for understanding Jewish philosophy. (They come to different conclusions, however.)\n\nRabbinic Judaism, and contemporary Orthodox Judaism, hold that the Torah (Pentateuch) extant today is essentially the same one that the whole of the Jewish people received on Mount Sinai, from God, upon their Exodus from Egypt. Beliefs that God gave a \"Torah of truth\" to Moses (and the rest of the people), that Moses was the greatest of the prophets, and that the Law given to Moses will never be changed, are three of the Thirteen Principles of Faith of Orthodox Judaism according to Maimonides.\n\nOrthodox Judaism believes that in addition to the written Torah, God also revealed to Moses a set of oral teachings, called the Oral Torah. In addition to this revealed law, Jewish law contains decrees and enactments made by prophets, rabbis, and sages over the course of Jewish history. Haredi Judaism tends to regard even rabbinic decrees as being of divine origin or divinely inspired, while Modern Orthodox Judaism tends to regard them as being more potentially subject to human error, although due to the Biblical verse \"Do not stray from their words\" (\"Deuteronomy 17:11) it is still accepted as binding law.\n\nConservative Judaism tends to regard both the Torah and the Oral law as not verbally revealed. The Conservative approach tends to regard the Torah as compiled by redactors in a manner similar to the Documentary Hypothesis. However, Conservative Jews also regard the authors of the Torah as divinely inspired, and many regard at least portions of it as originating with Moses. Positions can vary from the position of Joel Roth, following David Weiss HaLivni, that while the Torah originally given to Moses on Mount Sinai became corrupted or lost and had to be recompiled later by redactors, the recompiled Torah is nonetheless regarded as fully Divine and legally authoritative, to the position of Gordon Tucker that the Torah, while Divinely inspired, is a largely human document containing significant elements of human error, and should be regarded as the beginning of an ongoing process which is continuing today. Conservative Judaism regards the Oral Law as divinely inspired, but nonetheless subject to human error.\n\nReform and Reconstructionist Jews also accept the Documentary Hypothesis for the origin of the Torah, and tend to view all of the Oral law as an entirely human creation. Reform believe that the Torah is not a direct revelation from God, but is a document written by human ancestors, carrying human understanding and experience, and seeking to answer the question: 'What does God require of us?'. They believe that, though it contains many 'core-truths' about God and humanity, it is also time bound. They believe that God's will is revealed through the interaction of humanity and God throughout history, and so, in that sense, Torah is a product of an ongoing revelation. Reconstructionist Judaism denies the notion of revelation entirely.\n\nAlthough the Nevi'im (the books of the Prophets) are considered divine and true, this does not imply that the books of the prophets are always read literally. Jewish tradition has always held that prophets used metaphors and analogies. There exists a wide range of commentaries explaining and elucidating those verses consisting of metaphor. Rabbinic Judaism regards Moses as the greatest of the prophets, and this view is one of the Thirteen Principles of Faith of traditional Judaism. Consistent with the view that revelation to Moses was generally clearer than revelation to other prophets, Orthodox views of revelation to prophets other than Moses have included a range of perspectives as to directness. For example, Maimonides in \"The Guide for the Perplexed\" said that accounts of revelation in the Nevi'im were not always as literal as in the Torah and that some prophetic accounts reflect allegories rather than literal commands or predictions.\n\nConservative Rabbi and philosopher Abraham Joshua Heschel (1907–1972), author of a number of works on prophecy, said that, \"Prophetic inspiration must be understood \"as an event\", not as \"a process\".\" In his work \"God in Search of Man\", he discussed the experience of being a prophet. In his book \"Prophetic Inspiration After the Prophets: Maimonides and Others\", Heschel references to continued prophetic inspiration in Jewish rabbinic literature following the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem and into medieval and even Modern times. He wrote that\n\nThe miracle of the Sun is probably the best-known revelation of recent times, but while some still consider it to be a genuine miracle, others regard it as a natural phenomenon with a natural explanation.\n"}
{"id": "57006011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57006011", "title": "Reynolds International Pen Company", "text": "Reynolds International Pen Company\n\nIn June 1945 Chicago businessman Milton Reynolds was in Buenos Aires, Argentina when he came across the first commercialized ballpoint, the Biro pen.\n\nIn October 1945, Milton Reynolds was able to reverse engineer the Biro pen and was the first to manufacture and sell ballpoint pens into the US market. \"Reynolds Rocket\" pen was introduced at Gimbel’s department store in New York City, selling $100,000 worth of pens on the first day. Demand in 1945 was running 30,000 pens per day, making it America's #1 ballpoint pen. However, within three years the price of the pen went from $12.50 to 50¢.\n\nThe Reynold's Rocket Pen had a tiny ball bearing that only let ink out when pressed against the item you were writing on. In advertisements Reynolds claimed it had enough ink to 15 years without refilling.\n\nIn 1947 in a publicity stunt to promote Reynolds' pens Milton Reynolds and William Odom announced they would beat Howard Hughes' around the world record. They set a new record time of under 79 hours by flying the \"Reynolds Bombshell\" around the world while managing to pass our thousands of pens.\n\nIn 1948 Reynolds expanded overseas and opened Reynolds European, and later in 1959 spun out Reynolds European SA as an independent company focused on non-ferrous metals.\n\nThe Chicago-based Reynolds Pen company closed with Milton Reynolds moving to Mexico . The French subsidiary survived as did their India licensee. Later the French subsidiary would be purchased.\n\nIn 2000 Newell Rubbermaid acquired and in 2007 announced they would be closing the French manufacturing plants, causing huge labor union protests.\n\nIn May 2016 Reynold's license GM Pens International in India decided to end their exclusive contract and stopped making Reynold branded pens, instead choosing to make their own Rorito brand pen.\n\nReynold Pens, along with Paper Mate and Parker are brands owned by US based Newell Brands and are sold in more than 70 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "19757398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19757398", "title": "Russian National Corpus", "text": "Russian National Corpus\n\nThe Russian National Corpus (English official name; the Russian name is Национальный корпус русского языка, lit. the National Corpus of the Russian language, but as the official English variant the Russian National Corpus is used) is a corpus of the Russian language that has been partially accessible through a query interface online since April 29, 2004. It is being created by the Institute of Russian language, Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIt currently contains more than 600 million word forms that are automatically lemmatized and POS-/grammeme-tagged, i. e. all the possible morphological analyses for each orthographic form are ascribed to it. Lemmata, POS, grammatical items and their combinations are searchable. Additionally, 6 million word forms are in the subcorpus with manually resolved homonymy. \n\nThe subcorpus with resolved morphological homonymy is also automatically accentuated. The whole corpus has a searchable tagging concerning lexical semantics (LS), including morphosemantic POS subclasses (proper noun, reflexive pronoun etc.), LS characteristics proper (thematic class, causativity, evaluation), derivation (diminutive, adverb formed from adjective etc.).\n\nThe RNC includes also the following subcorpora:\n\nAll the texts have tags bearing metatextual information - the author, his/her birth date, creation date, text size, text genres (general fiction, detective story, newspaper article etc.); all these categories are browsable and searchable separately. It is possible to define a user's subcorpus to search lemmata/POS-grammeme/semantic tags combinations only within this subset.\n\n"}
{"id": "4568909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4568909", "title": "Sallaans dialect", "text": "Sallaans dialect\n\nSallaans (Dutch: \"Sallands\") is a collective term for the Dutch Low Saxon dialects of the region Salland, in the eastern Netherlands. A common term used by native speakers for their dialect, which is also used by Low Saxon speakers from other regions for their respective dialects, is \"plat\" or simply \"dialect\". Yet another common usage is to refer to the language by the name of the local variety, where for instance \"Dal(f)sens\" would be the name for the Sallaans variety spoken in the village of Dalfsen. Sallands is more influenced by the Hollandse dialects than Twents or Achterhoeks. This influence is called the Hollandse expansie. For example, house is in Twente hoes but in Salland it is huus. The Hollandse dialects of the 17th century still had uu sounds in their vocabulary, and this uu sounds came in Sallands.\n\n"}
{"id": "26667482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26667482", "title": "Scyphate", "text": "Scyphate\n\nScyphate is a term frequently used in numismatics to refer to the concave or \"cup-shaped\" Byzantine coins of the 11th–14th centuries. \n\nThis usage emerged in the 19th century, when the term \"scyphatus\", attested in south Italian documents of the 11th and 12th centuries, was erroneously interpreted as deriving from the Greek word \"skyphos\" (σκύφος, \"cup\"). In reality, the term probably derives from the Arabic word \"shafah\", \"edge, rim\", and refers to the distinctive and conspicuous border of the early \"histamena\" gold coins. Due to this misunderstanding, the term \"scyphate\" has been widely applied to the concave gold, silver, and copper coins of the late Byzantine Empire and the foreign issues imitating it. These coins are more properly designated as \"trachea\" (singular: \"trachy\", from Greek τραχύ, \"rough, uneven\").\n\n"}
{"id": "12762115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12762115", "title": "Sexual slang", "text": "Sexual slang\n\nSexual slang is a set of linguistic terms and phrases used to refer to sexual organs, processes, and activities; they are generally considered colloquial rather than formal or medical, and some may be seen as impolite or improper.\n\nRelated to sexual slang is slang related to defecation and flatulence (toilet humor, scatolinguistics). References to the anal tract are often given a sexual connotation in the context of anal sex (in particular, in a context of male homosexuality).\n\nWhile popular usage is incredibly versatile in coining ever new short-lived synonyms, old terms with originally no pejorative colouring may come to be considered inappropriate over time. Thus, terms like \"arse/ass\", \"cunt,\" \"cock\" and \"fuck\" should not be considered \"slang,\" since they are the inherited common English terms for their referents, but they are often considered vulgarisms and are replaced by euphemisms or scientific terminology in \"polite\" language.\n\nTerms of disparagement are used to refer to members of a given sexual minority, gender, sex, or sexual orientation in a derogatory or pejorative manner. They are used as insults by persons who are not or do not wish to be associated with the group being disparaged. For example, \"queer\" can be used as an insult by those seeking to deprecate homosexual, bisexual, and transgender or transsexual people, but the word has also undergone reclaiming, such that it can be used positively within that community. Which terms are used as slurs is determined by a society's or subculture's set of values, especially its biases against genders (sexism). For example, words such as \"whore\" and \"slut\" are typically used to refer to sexually promiscuous women.\nSexual slurs are common across many cultures and historical periods. The most common slurs directed against men historically include accusations of being a passive homosexual (Aristophanes notably enjoyed using such allusions) or of being effeminate; for example, in the Hittite military oath, oath-breakers are threatened with being made into women (a promise of either actual castration, or of divine revenge on the traitors' manhood).\nThe pejorative term prick for a contemptible person is also usually used for men. \n\nIn the popular jargon of many cultures, the use of sexual slang is a form of humor or euphemism that often creates controversy over its public use. Sexual humor has been seen in many circles as crude and unsophisticated, as well as insulting towards the subject it describes. Sexual slang has a long history in literature and comedy: examples from Shakespeare are well-known. The popularity of contemporary comedians who indulge in sexual humor, from George Carlin to Andrew Dice Clay, reflects the appeal of this form of speech. It is often seen as a form of taboo, in which much of the appeal lies in the shock value of daring to speak \"forbidden\" words in public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28927328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28927328", "title": "Sundri Uttamchandani", "text": "Sundri Uttamchandani\n\nSmt. Sundri Uttamchandani (28 September 1924 – 8 July 2013) was a noted Indian writer. She wrote mostly in Sindhi language. She was married to progressive writer A. J. Uttam.\n\nIn 1986 she was awarded the Sahitya Akademi Award by Sahitya Akademi in Sindhi for her Book \"Vichhoro\", a compilation of nine short stories.\n\nSundri Uttamchandani was born on 28 September 1924 at Hyderabad Sindh (now in Pakistan). Hydrabad was the capital of Sindh before the conquest of Sindh by the British. Though it lost its position as a capital city but, it continued to be a thriving centre of education literature and culture. All reform movements were rooted in its soil. At the very young age, Sundri was exposed to a vast repertoire of folk and mythological tales which were narrated by her parents to her and other children of the extended joint family. During her youth the freedom movement was sweeping across the country and she could not but be drawn to it. While still in college she translated a story \"Bhadur Maao Ji Bahadur Deeah\" (A brave daughter of a brave mother). This was her initiation in the literary field.\n\nShe married Assandas Uttamchandani (A.J.Uttam), a Freedom fighter, with a keen interest in Sindhi Literature with clear leanings toward Marxist Philosophy and, who become in the later years one of the leading writers of Sindhi progressive literary movement, A J Uttam, was one of the founders of Sindhi Sahit Mandal in Bombay. Sundri accompanied him to weekly literary meetings which were presided over by a fatherly figure, Prof M U Malkani, who was a fountain head of encouragement to new and upcoming writers. This exposure to Sindhi writers and their creative works were to become source of inspiration for her and in the year 1953 she produced her first novel \"Kirandar Deewaroon\" (Crumbling walls). This proved to be path breaking. She shattered the near monopoly of male domination in literature by her one feat, while on the one hand, she won the accolades and acclaim of all senior writers for use of 'homely' language, a folksy- idiomatic language used by women folk in their household and thus brought in a new literary flavour in Sindhi literature. The theme and structure of the novel was mature and it has distinction of being reprinted many times over. This Novel was translated into many Indian languages and brought her acclaim by literary critics of those languages, thus elevating her from a writer of a regional language to a writer of All India fame. Her Second Novel \"Preet Purani Reet Niraali\" came in the year 1956, which has run into 5 reprints, which amply speaks of its merit and popularity.\n\nApart from her path breaking novels, it is in short story form in which she found herself more comfortable. She has collections of short stories to her credit some of which have gone into various reprints. Some of her short stories have become water mark in this genre and are often cited as outstanding examples.\n\nHer Story\" Bhoori\" (A doll) brings out in stark relief the beauty of yester years, who due to ravages of partition of the country has lost her enchanting looks but is radiant with inner beauty born out of dignity of labour and assured demeanor to shoulder economic responsibilities to feed her family, thus standing shoulder to shoulder with her husband, ushering in gender equality without being sounding stirringly feminist.Her first story 'Mamta' against the war won her first prize in 1952 in a short story competition. 'Koshan' was another story which also appreciated and received first prize in 1954 from Kahani Magazine.In early sixties a Publisher of 'KAHANI' magazine had organised a short story competition in which many stalwarts of the time participated and Sundri's short story \"KHEER BARIYA HATHRA\" won the first prize. This was story published in a book titled as \"KHEER BARIYA HATHRA\" 1960 by KAHANI. Her story \"HI SHAHAR\" (This City) is everlasting portrayal of a meek Nepali watchman in a lower middle class apartment building in this city as a vast ruthless and soul less machine, unmindful of the personal loss or tragedy. \nSundri has tried her hand at traditional poetry with proper meter but it is in free verse where she has found her niche. She has four poetry collections to her credit. Her poems delve deep into subtle and delicate gamut of emotions and find artistic and imaginative articulation with her individual stamp.\n\nApart from winning many awards throughout her vast and eventful literary career, she was bestowed prestigious Sahitya Akademi Award for her Book \"Vichhoro\" in the year 1986.\n\nAs a part of Progressive Writers' movement she has written on erstwhile Soviet Union, \"NAEEN SABHYATA Jo DARSHAN' and Bharat Roos ba Banh Beli (India Russia two comrades in arms) for which she won The coveted Soviet Land Award. She has inspired many women writers to contribute to Sindhi literature and will continue to inspire future generations.\n\nStarted writing in the year 1946. She has written 200 Short Stories, 2 Novels, 12 one act plays, Approx. 500 essays 200 poems. Has translated many novels, short stories and poems of renowned writers viz. Amrita Pritam, Maxim Gorky, Krishanchandra, Sholokhav etc.\n\n\n\nDocumentary made on Sundri Uttamchandani along with two leading Sindhi lady writers Prof. Popati Hiranandani & Kala Prakash (Sindhi Sahit jun te barkh Lekhkaun)\n\nAvailable all over India through Sindhi Sangat\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6782348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6782348", "title": "Tetela language", "text": "Tetela language\n\nTetela (Otetela, Kitetela, Kikitatela), also \"Sungu\", is a Bantu language of northern Kasai-Oriental Province, Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is spoken by the Tetela people.\n\nLike other Bantu languages, Tetela grammar arranges nouns into a number of classes. The ancestral system had 22 classes (counting singular and plural as distinct according to the Meinhof system), with most Bantu languages sharing at least ten of them.\n"}
{"id": "51288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51288", "title": "Translation memory", "text": "Translation memory\n\nA translation memory (TM) is a database that stores \"segments\", which can be sentences, paragraphs or sentence-like units (headings, titles or elements in a list) that have previously been translated, in order to aid human translators. The translation memory stores the source text and its corresponding translation in language pairs called “translation units”. Individual words are handled by terminology bases and are not within the domain of TM.\n\nSoftware programs that use translation memories are sometimes known as translation memory managers (TMM) or translation memory systems (TM systems, not to be confused with a Translation management system (TMS), which is another type of software focused on managing process of translation).\n\nTranslation memories are typically used in conjunction with a dedicated computer assisted translation (CAT) tool, word processing program, terminology management systems, multilingual dictionary, or even raw machine translation output.\n\nResearch indicates that many companies producing multilingual documentation are using translation memory systems. In a survey of language professionals in 2006, 82.5% out of 874 replies confirmed the use of a TM. Usage of TM correlated with text type characterised by technical terms and simple sentence structure (technical, to a lesser degree marketing and financial), computing skills, and repetitiveness of content.\n\nThe program breaks the source text (the text to be translated) into segments, looks for matches between segments and the source half of previously translated source-target pairs stored in a translation memory, and presents such matching pairs as translation candidates. The translator can accept a candidate, replace it with a fresh translation, or modify it to match the source. In the last two cases, the new or modified translation goes into the database.\n\nSome translation memory systems search for 100% matches only, that is to say that they can only retrieve segments of text that match entries in the database exactly, while others employ fuzzy matching algorithms to retrieve similar segments, which are presented to the translator with differences flagged. It is important to note that typical translation memory systems only search for text in the source segment.\n\nThe flexibility and robustness of the matching algorithm largely determine the performance of the translation memory, although for some applications the recall rate of exact matches can be high enough to justify the 100%-match approach.\n\nSegments where no match is found will have to be translated by the translator manually. These newly translated segments are stored in the database where they can be used for future translations as well as repetitions of that segment in the current text.\n\nTranslation memories work best on texts which are highly repetitive, such as technical manuals. They are also helpful for translating incremental changes in a previously translated document, corresponding, for example, to minor changes in a new version of a user manual. Traditionally, translation memories have not been considered appropriate for literary or creative texts, for the simple reason that there is so little repetition in the language used. However, others find them of value even for non-repetitive texts, because the database resources created have value for concordance searches to determine appropriate usage of terms, for quality assurance (no empty segments), and the simplification of the review process (source and target segment are always displayed together while translators have to work with two documents in a traditional review environment).\n\nIf a translation memory system is used consistently on appropriate texts over a period of time, it can save translators considerable work. Enterprises that employ translators to work on corporate translations can also save significant resources as a result of using a translation memory system.\n\nTranslation memory managers are most suitable for translating technical documentation and documents containing specialized vocabularies. Their benefits include:\n\n\nThe main problems hindering wider use of translation memory managers include:\n\n\nThe use of TM systems might have an effect on the quality of the texts translated. Its main effect is clearly related to the so-called \"error propagation\": if the translation for a particular segment is incorrect, it is in fact more likely that the incorrect translation will be reused the next time the same source text, or a similar source text, is translated, thereby perpetuating the error.Traditionally, two main effects on the quality of translated texts have been described: the \"sentence-salad\" effect (Bédard 2000; cited in O’Hagan 2009: 50) and the \"peep-hole\" effect (Heyn 1998). The first refers to a lack of coherence at the text level when a text is translated using sentences from a TM which have been translated by different translators with different styles. According to the latter, translators may adapt their style to the use of TM system in order for these not to contain intratextual references, so that the segments can be better reused in future texts, thus affecting cohesion and readability (O'Hagan 2009).\n\nThere is a potential, and, if present, probably an unconscious effect on the translated text. Different languages use different sequences for the logical elements within a sentence and a translator presented with a multiple clause sentence that is half translated is less likely to completely rebuild a sentence. Consistent empirical evidences (Martín-Mor 2011) show that translators will most likely modify the structure of a multiple clause sentence when working with a text processor rather than with a TM system.\n\nThere is also a potential for the translator to deal with the text mechanically sentence-by-sentence, instead of focusing on how each sentence relates to those around it and to the text as a whole. Researchers (Dragsted 2004) have identified this effect, which relates to the Automatic Segmentation feature of these programs, but it does not necessarily have a negative effect on the quality of translations.\n\nNote that these effects are closely related to training rather than inherent to the tool. According to Martín-Mor (2011), the use of TM systems does have an effect on the quality of the translated texts, especially on novices, but experienced translators are able to avoid it. Pym (2013) reminds that \"translators using TM/MT tend to revise each segment as they go along, allowing little time for a final revision of the whole text at the end\", which might in fact be the ultimate cause of some of the effects described here.\n\n\nThe following is a summary of the main functions of a translation memory.\n\nThis function is used to transfer a text and its translation from a text file to the TM. Import can be done from a \"raw format\", in which an external source text is available for importing into a TM along with its translation. Sometimes the texts have to be reprocessed by the user. There is another format that can be used to import: the \"native format\". This format is the one that uses the TM to save translation memories in a file.\n\nThe process of analysis involves the following steps:\n\nExport transfers the text from the TM into an external text file. Import and export should be inverses.\n\nWhen translating, one of the main purposes of the TM is to retrieve the most useful matches in the memory so that the translator can choose the best one. The TM must show both the source and target text pointing out the identities and differences.\n\nSeveral different types of matches can be retrieved from a TM.\n\n\nA TM is updated with a new translation when it has been accepted by the translator. As always in updating a database, there is the question what to do with the previous contents of the database. A TM can be modified by changing or deleting entries in the TM. Some systems allow translators to save multiple translations of the same source segment.\n\nTranslation memory tools often provide automatic retrieval and substitution.\n\n\nNetworking enables a group of translators to translate a text together faster than if each was working in isolation, because sentences and phrases translated by one translator are available to the others. Moreover, if translation memories are shared before the final translation, there is an opportunity for mistakes by one translator to be corrected by other team members.\n\n\"Text memory\" is the basis of the proposed Lisa OSCAR xml:tm standard. Text memory comprises author memory and translation memory.\n\nThe unique identifiers are remembered during translation so that the target language document is 'exactly' aligned at the text unit level. If the source document is subsequently modified, then those text units that have not changed can be directly transferred to the new target version of the document without the need for any translator interaction. This is the concept of 'exact' or 'perfect' matching to the translation memory. xml:tm can also provide mechanisms for in-document leveraged and fuzzy matching.\n\n1970s is the infancy stage for TM systems in which scholars carried on a preliminary round of exploratory discussions. The original idea for TM systems is often attributed to Martin Kay's \"Proper Place\" paper, but the details of it are not fully given. In this paper, it has shown the basic concept of the storing system: \"The translator might start by issuing a command causing the system to display anything in the store that might be relevant to ... Before going on, he can examine past and future fragments of text that contain similar material\". This observation from Kay was actually influenced by the suggestion of Peter Arthern that translators can use similar, already translated documents online. In his 1978 article he gave fully demonstration of what we call TM systems today: Any new text would be typed into a word processing station, and as it was being typed, the system would check this text against the earlier texts stored in its memory, together with its translation into all the other official languages [of the European Community]. ... One advantage over machine translation proper would be that all the passages so retrieved would be grammatically correct. In effect, we should be operating an electronic 'cut and stick' process which would, according to my calculations, save at least 15 per cent of the time which translators now employ in effectively producing translations.\n\nThe idea was incorporated from ALPS(Automated Language Processing Systems) Tools first developed by researcher from Brigham Young University, and at that time the idea of TM systems was mixed with a tool call \"Repetitions Processing\" which only aimed to find matched strings. Only after a long time, did the concept of so-called translation memory come into being.\n\nThe real exploratory stage of TM systems would be 1980s. One of the first implementation of TM system appeared in Sadler and Vendelmans' Bilingual Knowledge Bank. A Bilingual Knowledge Bank is a syntactically and referentially structured pair of corpora, one being a translation of the other, in which translation units are cross-coded between the corpora. The aim of Bilingual Knowledge Bank is to develop a corpus-based general-purpose knowledge source for applications in machine translation and computer-aided translation (Sadler & Vendelman, 1987). Another important step was made by Brian Harris with his \"Bi-text\". He has defined the bi-text as \"a single text in two dimensions\" (1988), the source and target texts related by the activity of the translator through translation units which made a similar echoes with Sadler's Bilingual Knowledge Bank. And in Harris's work he proposed something like TM system without using this name: a database of paired translations, searchable either by individual word, or by \"whole translation unit\", in the latter case the search being allowed to retrieve similar rather than identical units.\n\nTM technology only became commercially available on a wide scale in the late 1990s, so the efforts made by several engineers and translators. Of note is the first TM tool called Trados (SDL Trados nowadays). In this tool, when opening the source file and applying the translation memory so that any \"100% matches\" (identical matches) or \"fuzzy matches\" (similar, but not identical matches) within the text are instantly extracted and placed within the target file. Then, the \"matches\" suggested by the translation memory can be either accepted or overridden with new alternatives. If a translation unit is manually updated, then it is stored within the translation memory for future use as well as for repetition in the current text. In a similar way, all segments in the target file without a \"match\" would be translated manually and then automatically added to the translation memory. \n\nIn the 2000s, online translation services began incorporating TM. Machine translation services like Google Translate, as well as professional and \"hybrid\" translation services provided by sites like Gengo and Ackuna, incorporate databases of TM data supplied by translators and volunteers to make more efficient connections between languages provide faster translation services to end-users.\n\nOne recent development is the concept of 'text memory' in contrast to translation memory. This is also the basis of the proposed LISA OSCAR standard. Text memory within xml:tm comprises 'author memory' and 'translation memory'. Author memory is used to keep track of changes during the authoring cycle. Translation memory uses the information from author memory to implement translation memory matching. Although primarily targeted at XML documents, xml:tm can be used on any document that can be converted to XLIFF format.\n\nMuch more powerful than first-generation TM systems, they include a linguistic analysis engine, use chunk technology to break down segments into intelligent terminological groups, and automatically generate specific glossaries.\n\nTranslation Memory eXchange (TMX) is a standard that enables the interchange of translation memories between translation suppliers. TMX has been adopted by the translation community as the best way of importing and exporting translation memories. The current version is 1.4b - it allows for the recreation of the original source and target documents from the TMX data.\n\nTermBase eXchange. This LISA standard, which was revised and republished as ISO 30042, allows for the interchange of terminology data including detailed lexical information. The framework for TBX is provided by three ISO standards: ISO 12620, ISO 12200 and ISO 16642. ISO 12620 provides an inventory of well-defined “data categories” with standardized names that function as data element types or as predefined values. ISO 12200 (also known as MARTIF) provides the basis for the core structure of TBX. ISO 16642 (also known as Terminological Markup Framework) includes a structural meta-model for Terminology Markup Languages in general.\n\nUniversal Terminology eXchange (UTX) format is a standard specifically designed to be used for user dictionaries of machine translation, but it can be used for general, human-readable glossaries. The purpose of UTX is to accelerate dictionary sharing and reuse by its extremely simple and practical specification.\n\nSegmentation Rules eXchange (SRX) is intended to enhance the TMX standard so that translation memory data that is exchanged between applications can be used more effectively. The ability to specify the segmentation rules that were used in the previous translation may increase the leveraging that can be achieved.\n\nGILT Metrics. GILT stands for (Globalization, Internationalization, Localization, and Translation). The GILT Metrics standard comprises three parts: GMX-V for volume metrics, GMX-C for complexity metrics and GMX-Q for quality metrics. The proposed GILT Metrics standard is tasked with quantifying the workload and quality requirements for any given GILT task.\n\nOpen Lexicon Interchange Format. OLIF is an open, XML-compliant standard for the exchange of terminological and lexical data. Although originally intended as a means for the exchange of lexical data between proprietary machine translation lexicons, it has evolved into a more general standard for terminology exchange.\n\nXML Localisation Interchange File Format (XLIFF) is intended to provide a single interchange file format that can be understood by any localization provider. XLIFF is the preferred way of exchanging data in XML format in the translation industry.\n\nTranslation Web Services. TransWS specifies the calls needed to use Web services for the submission and retrieval of files and messages relating to localization projects. It is intended as a detailed framework for the automation of much of the current localization process by the use of Web Services.\n\nThe xml:tm (XML-based Text Memory) approach to translation memory is based on the concept of text memory which comprises author and translation memory. xml:tm has been donated to Lisa OSCAR by XML-INTL.\n\nGettext Portable Object format. Though often not regarded as a translation memory format, Gettext PO files are bilingual files that are also used in translation memory processes in the same way translation memories are used. Typically, a PO translation memory system will consist of various separate files in a directory tree structure. Common tools that work with PO files include the GNU Gettext Tools and the Translate Toolkit. Several tools and programs also exist that edit PO files as if they are mere source text files.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34966778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34966778", "title": "Ukit language", "text": "Ukit language\n\nUkit is a Kajang language of Sarawak, Malaysia.\n\n'Punan Ukit' is a dialect of the related language Bukitan.\n"}
{"id": "255928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255928", "title": "Variety (linguistics)", "text": "Variety (linguistics)\n\nIn sociolinguistics a variety, also called a lect, is a specific form of a language or language cluster. This may include languages, dialects, registers, styles, or other forms of language, as well as a standard variety. The use of the word \"variety\" to refer to the different forms avoids the use of the term \"language\", which many people associate only with the standard language, and the term \"dialect\", which is often associated with non-standard varieties thought of as less prestigious or \"correct\" than the standard. Linguists speak of both standard and non-standard varieties. \"Lect\" avoids the problem in ambiguous cases of deciding whether two varieties are distinct languages or dialects of a single language.\n\nVariation at the level of the lexicon, such as slang and argot, is often considered in relation to particular styles or levels of formality (also called registers), but such uses are sometimes discussed as varieties as well.\n\nO'Grady et al. define \"dialect\": \"A regional or social variety of a language characterized by its own phonological, syntactic, and lexical properties.\" A variety spoken in a particular region is called a regional dialect; some regional varieties are called topolects, especially to discuss varieties of Chinese. In addition, there are dialect varieties associated with particular ethnic groups (sometimes called ethnolects), socioeconomic classes (sometimes called sociolects), or other social or cultural groups.\n\nDialectology is the study of dialects and their geographic or social distribution. Traditionally, dialectologists study the variety of language used within a particular speech community, a group of people who share a set of norms or conventions for language use. More recently, sociolinguists have adopted the concept of the community of practice, a group of people who develop shared knowledge and shared norms of interaction, as the social group within which dialects develop and change. Sociolinguists Penelope Eckert and Sally McConnell-Ginet explain: \"Some communities of practice may develop more distinctive ways of speaking than others. Thus, it is within communities of practice that linguistic influence may spread within and among speech communities.\"\n\nThe words \"dialect\" and \"accent\" are sometimes used interchangeably in everyday English speech, but linguists and scholars define the two terms differently. Accent is used to refer only to differences in pronunciation, especially those that are associated with geographic or social differences. Dialect, which refers to differences in syntax, morphology, and vocabulary as well as pronunciation, is the broader term.\n\nMost languages have a \"standard variety\", some variety that is selected and promoted by either quasi-legal authorities or other social institutions, such as schools or media. Standard varieties are more prestigious than other, nonstandard varieties and are generally thought of as \"correct\" by speakers of the language. Since the selection is an arbitrary standard, standard varieties are \"correct\" only in the sense that they are highly valued by large numbers of individuals of medium and higher socio-economic status, those with the power to control language use, such as writers, publishers, public speakers and the ruling class, within the society that uses the language. As Ralph Harold Fasold puts it, \"The standard language may not even be the best possible constellation of linguistic features available. It is general social acceptance that gives us a workable arbitrary standard, not any inherent superiority of the characteristics it specifies.\"\n\nSociolinguists generally recognize the standard variety of a language as one of the dialects of that language.\n\nIn some cases, an official body, such as the Académie française, describes the grammar and usage of a standard variety. More often, though, standard varieties are understood only implicitly. Writing of Standard English, John Algeo suggests that the standard variety \"is simply what English speakers agree to regard as good\".\n\nA \"register\" (sometimes called a \"style\") is a variety of language used in a particular social setting. Settings may be defined in terms of greater or lesser formality, or in terms of socially-recognized events, such as baby talk, which is used in many western cultures to talk to small children or as a joking register used in teasing or playing The Dozens. There are also registers associated with particular professions or interest groups; jargon refers specifically to the vocabulary associated with such registers.\n\nUnlike dialects, which are used by particular speech communities and associated with geographical settings or social groupings, registers are associated with particular situations, purposes, or levels of formality. Dialect and register may be thought of as different dimensions of variation. For example, Trudgill suggests the following sentence as an example of a nonstandard dialect that is used with the technical register of physical geography:\nMost speakers command a range of registers, which they use in different situations. The choice of register is affected by the setting and topic of speech, as well as the relationship that exists between the speakers.\n\nThe appropriate form of language may also change during the course of a communicative event as the relationship between speakers changes, or different social facts become relevant. Speakers may shift styles, as their perception of an event in progress changes. Consider the following telephone call to the Embassy of Cuba in Washington, DC.\nCaller: ¿Es la embajada de Cuba? (\"Is this the Cuban embassy?\")<br>\nReceptionist: Sí. Dígame. (\"Yes, may I help you?\")<br>\nCaller: Es Rosa. (\"It's Rosa.\")<br>\nReceptionist: ¡Ah Rosa! (\"Oh, Rosa! How's it going?\")\n\nAt first, the receptionist uses a relatively formal register, as befits her professional role. After the caller identifies herself, the receptionist recognizes that she is speaking to a friend, and she shifts to an informal register of colloquial Cuban Spanish. The shift is similar to metaphorical code-switching, but since it involves styles or registers, it is considered an example of style-shifting.\n\nAn idiolect is defined as \"the language use typical of an individual person\". An individual's idiolect may be affected by contact with various regional or social dialects, professional registers and, in the case of multilinguals, various languages.\n\nFor scholars who view language from the perspective of linguistic competence, essentially the knowledge of language and grammar that exists in the mind of an individual language user, the idiolect is a way of referring to the specific knowledge. For scholars who regard language as a shared social practice, the idiolect is more like a dialect with a speech community of one individual.\n\n"}
{"id": "19972294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19972294", "title": "Vibhuti Narain Rai", "text": "Vibhuti Narain Rai\n\nVibhuti Narain Rai (born 28 November 1951) is a police officer and author from India. He obtained an M.A. in English literature from Allahabad University in 1971 and joined the Indian Police Service in 1975 as a part of the Uttar Pradesh cadre. He served many sensitive districts as a superintendent of police.\n\nBetween 1992–2001, Rai was seconded to the Government of India, during which time his postings included anti-insurgency operations in the Kashmir Valley (1993–94). Subsequently, Rai has been posted as Additional Director General of Police in Uttar Pradesh. He has been awarded President's Police Medal for Distinguished Services and Police Medal for Meritorious Services.\n\nRai has also written five works of Hindi literature, being the novels \"Ghar\", \"Shahar Mein Curfew\", \"Kissa Loktantra\", \"Tabadla\" and \"Prem Ki Bhoot Katha\". Some of these have been translated into other languages. He has also written satires, including the collection titled \"Ek Chhatra Neta Ka Rojnamcha\". He has authored the chapter \"An Open Letter to My Fellow Police Officers\" in the book Gujarat:The making of a tragedy which is about the 2002 Gujarat riots. The book was edited by Siddharth Varadarajan and published by Penguin().\n\nOn 4 March 2016 on the occasion of completing 200 years of Treaty of Sugauli, Mr. Rai got Ramesh Chandra Jha Smriti Samman 2016 for his contribution in Hindi literature.\n\nIn 1988, Rai published a Hindi novel entitled \"Shahar Mein Curfew\" (Curfew in the City). Its theme was a 1980 Hindu-Muslim riot in the city of Allahabad, and Rai wrote freely about how religious prejudice in the Hindu dominated police force and provincial administration led to Muslim citizens' being viewed as enemies and thus becoming easy targets of brutality and murder. The Vishva Hindu Parishad readily took offense and denounced the novel for being \"anti-Hindu\". It now wants a ban imposed on the novel, and when Ashok Singhal, secretary general of the V.H.P., was told of a producer wanting to turn the story into a film, he threatened to burn down theatres that dared to screen the planned film. All this ire surrounds a project that has still not begun and a work of fiction that at no point directly criticizes any Hindu organization. It is worthwhile to quote here from a recent interview given by the author: \"The intolerance of dissent is increasing in our society and the Ayodhya mobilization has largely contributed to this disturbing trend. The attacks on inconvenient writers and dissenting journalists are in fact motivated by a desire to silence all criticism and all reason, thereby making the very existence of rationally-thinking people redundant to the social and political process. This is extremely distressing.\"\n\nRai is the founder-editor of \"Vartman Sahitya\", a Hindi literary magazine that has been published for over twenty years. He has written regular columns in various Hindi magazines and has campaigned against alleged fundamentalist and obscurantist forces in his country.\n\nThe Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad awarded him a fellowship to study police neutrality during communal strife. This resulted in \"Combating Communal Conflict\", a book that was published in Hindi and Urdu.\n\nAs an activist he has established a library in his native village in a backward area of Eastern Uttar Pradesh. This library \"Sri Ramanand Saraswati Pustakalaya\", Azamgarh was established to encourage reading and has developed relationships with institutions such as Sahitya Akademi, the National Book Trust and the National School of Drama.\n\nHe is the President of NGO \"Saajhi Duniya\" which is involved in various activities including research work to create a better world.\n\nFormer Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwavidyalaya, Wardha 2008-2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5255376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5255376", "title": "Vietnamese Wikipedia", "text": "Vietnamese Wikipedia\n\nThe Vietnamese Wikipedia () is the Vietnamese-language edition of Wikipedia, a free, publicly editable, online encyclopedia supported by the Wikimedia Foundation. As with other language editions of Wikipedia, the project's content is both created and accessed using the MediaWiki wiki software. The Vietnamese Wikipedia's primary competitor is the \"Encyclopedic Dictionary of Vietnam\" (\"Từ điển Bách khoa toàn thư Việt Nam\"), a state-funded encyclopedic dictionary also available online.\n\nAs of 2018, it has about articles. It is the largest Wikipedia in a non-European language, as well as the largest for a language which is official in only one country. However, it has only 375,000 articles manually created, 67% of its articles having been made by bots, and thus ranks 3rd among non-European language Wikipedias after the Japanese and Chinese ones.\n\nThe Vietnamese Wikipedia initially went online in November 2002, with a front page and an article about the Internet Society. The project received little attention and did not begin to receive significant contributions until it was \"restarted\" in October 2003 and the newer, Unicode-capable MediaWiki software was installed soon after.\n\nBy August 2008, the Vietnamese Wikipedia had grown to more than 50,000 articles – a milestone it achieved on August 26 – approximately 432 of which were created by bots. By the time the project reached the 100,000-article milestone on September 12, 2009, bot-generated articles made up around 5% of its corpus. Short articles are designated \"stubs\"; such articles number in the tens of thousands and include most of the bot-generated articles.\n\nAn experimental Wikipedia edition in the obsolete chữ Nôm script began in October 2006 at the Wikimedia Incubator. It was deleted in April 2010. An unrelated wiki encyclopedia project, VinaWiki, transliterates Vietnamese Wikipedia articles into chữ Nôm as part of a project to revive the script.\n\nThe volunteer-led Vietnam Wikimedians User Group supports the development of the Vietnamese Wikipedia and other Vietnamese-language Wikimedia projects. It gained formal recognition as a Wikimedia user group on 28 August 2018.\n\nThe Vietnamese Wikipedia's article count reached 500,000 on 28 September 2012 and 1,000,000 on 15 June 2014.\n\nThe Vietnamese Wikipedia uses AVIM, a JavaScript-based input method that allows the user to type accented Vietnamese text in popular input methods, such as Telex, VNI and VIQR. (See Vietnamese language and computers.) The preferred input system can be selected using a box under the sidebar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21054538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21054538", "title": "Vineyard designated wine", "text": "Vineyard designated wine\n\nA vineyard designated wine is a wine produced from the product of a single vineyard with that vineyard's name appearing on the wine label. \n\nThroughout the history of winemaking and viticulture, the differences in quality between one plot of land and another have been observed with the boundaries of these vineyard generally well demarcated. In Burgundy, the vineyards of the area are classified with the highest quality vineyards receiving the ranking of Grand cru. The names of these vineyards, such as Montrachet, will often appear on the wine label of Burgundy wines in bolder, more prominent print than even the name of the producer.\n\nIn the United States, the appearance of vineyards name on wine labels is a relatively recent phenomenon with one of the first vineyard designated premium wines in California being the 1966 vintage Heitz Martha's Vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon. Later examples include the 1975 Robert Young Vineyard Chardonnay from the Sonoma wine estate of Chateau St. Jean. On the East Coast, Unionville Vineyards produces single vineyard wines, primarily Chardonnay. Under US wine laws, if the name of vineyard appears on the label at least 95% of the grapes used to make the wine must come from that vineyard.\n\n"}
{"id": "6863737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6863737", "title": "Zorynsk", "text": "Zorynsk\n\nZorynsk (, ) is a city in Perevalsk Raion in Luhansk Oblast (region) of Ukraine. Population: .\n\nCity since 1963.\n\nIn 1989 the population of the city was 9776 people\n\nSince 2014, Zorynsk has been controlled by forces of the Luhansk People's Republic.\n"}
