{"id": "6701431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6701431", "title": "Alakai Wilderness Preserve", "text": "Alakai Wilderness Preserve\n\nThe Alakai Wilderness Preserve, popularly known as Alakai Swamp, is a montane wet forest on the Hawaiian island of Kauai. Although the preserve is home to alpine bogs, it is not a true swamp. It is located on a plateau near Mount Waialeale, one of the wettest spots on Earth.\n\nThe Alakai Swamp trail is often shrouded in mist. This trail can be reached via the Pihea Vista trail, which is connected to the Puu o Kila lookout on Waimea Canyon road. This road is located behind a gate that is directly next to the Kalalau Valley lookout. Due to the rainfall experienced here, potholes are formed and the road is often closed. The end of this trail overlooks Hanalei Bay off in the distance and it is possible to see several waterfalls from the lookout. This area is often shrouded in clouds and is one of the few places on Kauai where one may walk through them.\n\n"}
{"id": "26886320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26886320", "title": "Ann Florini", "text": "Ann Florini\n\nAnn Florini is Visiting Professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy. Until June 2018 she was Professor of Public Policy in the School of Social Sciences at Singapore Management University, where she was Academic Director of the Masters of Tri-Sector Collaboration, and was Non-resident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC. \nFlorini's academic training was at Syracuse University (BA, 1980), Princeton (Master’s in Public Affairs, 1983) and at UCLA (Ph.D. in Political Science 1995). She was the founding director of the Centre on Asia and Globalisation at the National University of Singapore from 2006 to 2011. Prior to joining Brookings as a Senior Fellow in 2002, Florini was a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and from 1996 to 1997 she served as research director of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund Project on World Security. She was a senior researcher with the Center for International and Strategic Affairs at UCLA from 1987 to 1992, and from 1983 to 1987 she worked for the United Nations Association of the USA, where she created and directed the Project on Multilateral Issues and Institutions.\n\nFlorini has spearheaded numerous international projects, including the Global Governance Initiative on behalf of the World Economic Forum (2000-2005) and the International Task Force on Transparency, Initiative for Policy Dialogue, Columbia University (2000-2005).\n\n\nHer peer-reviewed articles include:\n\n“The Public Roles of the Private Sector in Asia: The Emerging Research Agenda,” Asia and the Pacific Policy Studies January 2014\n\n(with Karthik Nachiappan, Tikki Pang, and Christine Pilcavage) “Global Health Governance: Analyzing China, India, and Japan as Global Health Aid Donors,” Global Policy vol.3, no. 3 (September 2012), pp. 336–347.\n\n(with Benjamin K. Sovacool) “Examining the Complications of Global Energy Governance,” Journal of Energy and Natural Resources Law, August 2012.\n\n(with Navroz K. Dubash) Guest Editors’ Introduction to Special Issue on “Governing Energy in a Fragmented World,” Global Policy 2: S1 (September 2011).\n(with Navroz K. Dubash) “Mapping Global Energy Governance,” Global Policy 2: S1 (September 2011).\n\n“The International Energy Agency in Global Energy Governance,” Global Policy 2: S1 (September 2011).\n\n(with Saleena Saleem) “Information Disclosure in Global Energy Governance,” Global Policy 2: S1 (September 2011).\n\n“Rising Asian Powers and Changing Global Governance,” International Studies Review 13 (Winter 2011), pp. 24–33.\n\n(with Benjamin K. Sovacool) “Bridging the Gaps in Global Energy Governance,” Global Governance 17:1 (Winter 2011).\n\n“Making Transparency Work,” Global Environmental Politics, 8: 2 (May 2008), pp 14–16.\n\n“Does the Invisible Hand Need a Transparent Glove?” Proceedings of the 11th Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics (Washington, DC: The World Bank, 2000).\n\n“Commercial Satellite Imagery Comes of Age,” Issues in Science and Technology 16:1 (Fall 1999).\n\n“A New Role for Transparency,” Contemporary Security Policy 18:2 (August 1997). Reprinted in Nancy W. Gallagher, ed., Arms Control: New Approaches to Theory and Policy (London and Portland, OR: Frank Cass, 1998).\n\n“The Evolution of International Norms,” International Studies Quarterly 40 (Fall 1996).\n\n“The Opening Skies: Third-Party Imaging Satellites and U.S. Security,” International Security, 13:2 (Fall 1988).\n"}
{"id": "45228255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45228255", "title": "Aquifer thermal energy storage", "text": "Aquifer thermal energy storage\n\nAquifer thermal energy storage (ATES) is the storage and recovery of thermal energy in the subsurface. ATES is applied to provide heating and cooling to buildings.\nStorage and recovery of thermal energy is achieved by extraction and injection of groundwater from aquifers using groundwater wells. Systems commonly operate in a seasonal mode. The groundwater that is extracted in summer, is used for cooling by transferring heat from the building to the groundwater by means of a heat exchanger. Subsequently, the heated groundwater is injected back into the aquifer, which creates a storage of heated groundwater. In wintertime, the flow direction is reversed such that the heated groundwater is extracted and can be used for heating (often in combination with a heat pump). Therefore, operating an ATES system uses the subsurface as a temporal storage to buffer seasonal variations in heating and cooling demand. When replacing traditional fossil fuel dependent heating and cooling systems, ATES can serve as a cost-effective technology to reduce the primary energy consumption of a building and the associated CO2 emissions.\n\nIn 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark, many countries and regions have made targets for global climate protection. The European Union also set a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase use of sustainable energy and improve energy efficiency. For this target, ATES can actually contribute significantly, as about 40% of global energy consumption is done by buildings, and is mainly for heating and cooling. Therefore, the development of ATES has been paid a lot of attention and the number of ATES has increased dramatically, especially in Europe. For example, in the Netherlands, it was estimated that about 20,000 ATES systems could be achieved by 2020. This can yield a CO2 emission reduction of about 11%, for the target of the Netherlands. Besides the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Turkey, and Sweden are also increasing the application of ATES.\nATES can be applied worldwide, as long as the climatic conditions and geohydrological conditions are right. As ATES systems cumulate in urban areas optimisation of subsurface space requires attention in areas with suitable conditions.\n\nIn its basic form, an ATES system consists of two wells (called a doublet). One well is used for heat storage, and the other for cold storage. During winter, (warm) groundwater is extracted from the heat storage well and injected in the cold storage well. During summer, the flow direction is reversed such that (cold) groundwater is extracted from the cold storage well and injected in the heat storage well. Because each well serves both as an extraction and injection well, these systems are called bi-directional. There are also mono-directional systems. These systems do not switch pumping direction, such that groundwater is always extracted at the natural aquifer temperature. Although thermal energy is stored in the subsurface, there is usually no intention to retrieve the stored energy.\n\nThermal energy storage can also be achieved by circulating a fluid through a buried heat exchanger, that usually consists of a horizontal or vertical pipeline. As these systems do not extract or inject groundwater, they are called closed systems and are known as borehole thermal energy storage or ground source heat pumps. Another thermal application that uses the subsurface to provide thermal energy is geothermal energy production, which commonly uses the deeper subsurface where temperature is higher.\n\nThe first reported deliberate storage of thermal energy in aquifers was in China around 1960. There, large amounts of groundwater were extracted to supply cooling to an industrial facility. This led to substantial land subsidence. To inhibit the subsidence, cold surface water was injected back into the aquifer. Subsequently, it was observed that the stored water remained cold after injection and could be used for industrial cooling. Storage of thermal energy in aquifers was further suggested in the 1970s which led to field experiments and feasibility studies in France, Switzerland, US and Japan. There are no official statistics on the number and size of ATES systems worldwide. However, the Netherlands and Sweden are considered to dominate the market in terms of implementation. In Sweden there were approximately 104 ATES systems in 2012 with a total capacity of 110 MW. The number of ATES systems in the Netherlands in the same year was 2740, with a total estimated capacity of 1103 MW.\n\nFlow rates for typical applications in the utility sector are between 20 and 150 m/hour for each well. The total volume of groundwater that is stored and recovered in a year generally varies between 10 000 m and 150 000 m per well.\nDepth at which ATES is applied varies commonly between 20 and 200 meters below surface. Temperature at these depths is generally close to the annual mean surface temperature. In moderate climates this is around 10 °C. In those regions cold storage is commonly applied between 5 and 10 °C and heat storage in the range 10 to 20 °C. Although less frequent, there are also some projects reported in which heat was stored above 80 °C.\n\nEnergy savings that can be achieved with ATES are strongly depending on the geology of a site. Mainly, ATES requires the presence of a suitable aquifer that is able to accept and yield water. Therefore, thick (>10 m) sandy aquifers are selected. Natural groundwater flow may transport (part of) the stored energy outside of the capture zone of a well during the storage phase. To reduce advective heat loss, aquifers with a low hydraulic gradient are preferred. In addition, gradients in geochemical composition should be avoided, as mixing of water with different geochemistry can increase clogging, which will reduce the performance of a well and lead to increased maintenance costs.\n\nThe legal status of shallow geothermal installations (<400 m) is diverse among countries. Regulations for installations of wells concern the use of hazardous materials and proper backfilling of the drilling hole to avoid hydraulic short circuiting between aquifers. Other legislation concerns protection of groundwater areas for drinking water supply. Some countries adopt limits for minimum and maximum storage temperatures. For example, Austria (5–20 °C), Denmark (2–25 °C) and Netherlands (5–25 °C). While other countries adopt a maximum change in groundwater temperature, for example Switzerland (3 °C) and France (11 °C).\n\nATES is currently not allowed to be applied in contaminated aquifers, due to the possible spreading of contaminants in the groundwater of the subsurface, especially in urban areas. This will lead to deterioration of the quality of groundwater, which is also an important source for drinking water. Despite the regulations made to prevent the interference between ATES and groundwater contaminants, the possibility of their encounter is however rising, because of the rapid increase of the number of ATES and slow progress of remediation groundwater contaminations in urban area. Among the common groundwater contaminants, chlorinated ethenes have a most chance to interfere with the ATES system, as they are often found at the similar depth as ATES. When chlorinated ethenes present as Dense non-aqueous phase liquid (DNAPLs), the possible dissolution of DNAPLs by ATES will cause more severe impact on the groundwater quality.\n\nThe possible interference between ATES and chlorinated ethenes has been also seen as an opportunity of integration of sustainable energy technology and sustainable groundwater management. The combination of ATES and enhanced bioremediation first introduced in the “More with SubSurface Energy” (Meer met Bodemenergie, MMB) project in the Netherlands in 2009. Several scientific and practical rationales are the basics for seeing such combination as a promising possibility. Increased temperature around the warm well can enhance reductive dechlorination of chlorinated ethenes. Although low temperature in cold well can hamper the biodegradation, the seasonal operation of ATES can transfer contaminant from cold well to hot well for faster biodegradation. Such seasonal groundwater transportation can also homogenize the environmental condition. ATES can be used as a biostimulation too, for example to inject electron donor or microorganism needed for reductive dechlorination. Finally, the life time of ATES (30 years) fits the long duration of in situ bioremediation.\n\nThe combination concept of ATES and enhanced natural attenuation (ATES-ENA) can possibly be used in the Netherlands and China, especially in urbanized areas. These areas in both countries are confronted with organic groundwater contaminations. Currently, the combination concept may be better applicable for the Netherlands with more mature technology and application of ATES. And the overlapping between ATES and groundwater contamination also promotes the need of this combined technology. However, for China where ATES is much less developed compared to the Netherlands, the important advantages are that many more demonstration pilot projects can be set-up prior to real applications, and flexible systems can be developed because of the less intense pressure on subsurface use by ATES compared to the Netherlands. For sustainable urban development, the combined ATES-ENA technology can provide contributions to the solution of both energy and environmental problems.\n"}
{"id": "10151726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10151726", "title": "Atmospheric tide", "text": "Atmospheric tide\n\nAtmospheric tides are global-scale periodic oscillations of the atmosphere. In many ways they are analogous to ocean tides. Atmospheric tides can be excited by:\n\n\nThe largest-amplitude atmospheric tides are mostly generated in the troposphere and stratosphere when the atmosphere is periodically heated, as water vapor and ozone absorb solar radiation during the day. These tides propagate away from the source regions and ascend into the mesosphere and thermosphere. Atmospheric tides can be measured as regular fluctuations in wind, temperature, density and pressure. Although atmospheric tides share much in common with ocean tides they have two key distinguishing features:\n\n\nAt ground level, atmospheric tides can be detected as regular but small oscillations in surface pressure with periods of 24 and 12 hours. However, at greater heights, the amplitudes of the tides can become very large. In the mesosphere (heights of ~ 50–100 km) atmospheric tides can reach amplitudes of more than 50 m/s and are often the most significant part of the motion of the atmosphere.\n\nThe reason for this dramatic growth in amplitude from tiny fluctuations near the ground to oscillations that dominate the motion of the mesosphere lies in the fact that the density of the atmosphere decreases with increasing height. As tides or waves propagate upwards, they move into regions of lower and lower density. If the tide or wave is not dissipating, then its kinetic energy density must be conserved. Since the density is decreasing, the amplitude of the tide or wave increases correspondingly so that energy is conserved.\n\nFollowing this growth with height atmospheric tides have much larger amplitudes in the middle and upper atmosphere than they do at ground level.\n\nThe largest amplitude atmospheric tides are generated by the periodic heating of the atmosphere by the Sun – the atmosphere is heated during the day and not heated at night. This regular diurnal (daily) cycle in heating generates tides that have periods related to the solar day. It might initially be expected that this diurnal heating would give rise to tides with a period of 24 hours, corresponding to the heating's periodicity. However, observations reveal that large amplitude tides are generated with periods of 24 and 12 hours. Tides have also been observed with periods of 8 and 6 hours, although these latter tides generally have smaller amplitudes. This set of periods occurs because the solar heating of the atmosphere occurs in an approximate square wave profile and so is rich in harmonics. When this pattern is decomposed into separate frequency components using a Fourier transform, as well as the mean and daily (24-hr) variation, significant oscillations with periods of 12, 8 and 6 hrs are produced. Tides generated by the gravitational effect of the sun are very much smaller than those generated by solar heating. Solar tides will refer to only thermal solar tides from this point.\n\nSolar energy is absorbed throughout the atmosphere some of the most significant in this context are water vapor at (~0–15 km) in the troposphere, ozone at (~30 to 60 km) in the stratosphere and molecular oxygen and molecular nitrogen at (~120 to 170 km) in the thermosphere. Variations in the global distribution and density of these species result in changes in the amplitude of the solar tides. The tides are also affected by the environment through which they travel.\n\nSolar tides can be separated into two components: migrating and non-migrating.\n\nMigrating tides are sun synchronous – from the point of view of a stationary observer on the ground they propagate westwards with the apparent motion of the sun. As the migrating tides stay fixed relative to the sun a pattern of excitation is formed that is also fixed relative to the Sun. Changes in the tide observed from a stationary viewpoint on the Earth's surface are caused by the rotation of the Earth with respect to this fixed pattern. Seasonal variations of the tides also occur as the Earth tilts relative to the Sun and so relative to the pattern of excitation.\n\nThe migrating solar tides have been extensively studied both through observations and mechanistic models.\n\nNon-migrating tides can be thought of as global-scale waves with the same periods as the migrating tides. However, non-migrating tides do not follow the apparent motion of the sun. Either they do not propagate horizontally, they propagate eastwards or they propagate westwards at a different speed to the sun. These non-migrating tides may be generated by differences in topography with longitude, land-sea contrast, and surface interactions. An important source is latent heat release due to deep convection in the tropics.\n\nThe primary source for the 24-hr tide is in the lower atmosphere where surface effects are important. This is reflected in a relatively large non-migrating component seen in longitudinal differences in tidal amplitudes. Largest amplitudes have been observed over South America, Africa and Australia.\n\nAtmospheric tides are also produced through the gravitational effects of the Moon. \"Lunar (gravitational) tides\" are much weaker than \"solar (thermal) tides\" and are generated by the motion of the Earth's oceans (caused by the Moon) and to a lesser extent the effect of the Moon's gravitational attraction on the atmosphere.\n\nThe basic characteristics of the atmospheric tides are described by the \"classical tidal theory\". \nBy neglecting mechanical forcing and dissipation, the classical tidal theory assumes \nthat atmospheric wave\nmotions can be considered as linear perturbations of an initially motionless \nzonal mean state that is horizontally stratified and isothermal. The two major results of the classical theory are\n\n\nThe primitive equations lead to the linearized equations for perturbations (primed variables)\nin a spherical isothermal atmosphere:\n\n\n\n\nwith the definitions\n\n\nThe set of equations can be solved for \"atmospheric tides\", i.e., longitudinally propagating waves of zonal wavenumber\nformula_22 and frequency formula_23. Zonal wavenumber formula_22 is a positive\ninteger so that positive values for formula_23 correspond to eastward propagating tides\nand negative values to westward propagating tides. A separation approach of the form\n\nand doing some math yields expressions for the latitudinal and vertical structure of the tides.\n\nThe latitudinal structure of the tides is described by the \"horizontal structure equation\" which is also called \"Laplace's tidal equation\":\n\nwith \"Laplace operator\"\n\nusing formula_30, formula_31 and \"eigenvalue\"\n\nHence, atmospheric tides are eigenoscillations (eigenmodes)of Earth's atmosphere with eigenfunctions formula_33, called Hough functions, and eigenvalues formula_34. The latter define the \"equivalent depth\" formula_35 which couples the latitudinal structure of the tides with their vertical structure.\n\nLonguet-Higgins has completely solved Laplace's equations and has discovered tidal modes with negative eigenvalues ε (Figure 2). There exist two kinds of waves: class 1 waves, (sometimes called gravity waves), labelled by positive n, and class 2 waves (sometimes called rotational waves), labelled by negative n. Class 2 waves owe their existence to the Coriolis force and can only exist for periods greater than 12 hours (or |ν| ≤ 2). Tidal waves can be either internal (travelling waves ) with positive eigenvalues (or equivalent depth) which have finite vertical wavelengths and can transport wave energy upward, or external (evanescent waves) with negative eigenvalues and infinitely large vertical wavelengths meaning that their phases remain constant with altitude. These external wave modes cannot transport wave energy, and their amplitudes decrease exponentially with height outside their source regions. Even numbers of n correspond to waves symmetric with respect to the equator, and odd numbers corresponding to antisymmetric waves. The transition from internal to external waves appears at ε ≃ ε, or at the vertical wavenumber k = 0, and λ ⇒ ∞, respectively.\n\nThe fundamental solar diurnal tidal mode which optimally matches the solar heat input configuration and thus is most strongly excited is the Hough mode (1, -2) (Figure 3). It depends on local time and travels westward with the Sun. It is an external mode of class 2 and has the eigenvalue of ε = −12.56. Its maximum pressure amplitude on the ground is about 60 hPa. The largest solar semidiurnal wave is mode (2, 2) with maximum pressure amplitudes at the ground of 120 hPa. It is an internal class 1 wave. Its amplitude increases exponentially with altitude. Although its solar excitation is half of that of mode (1, −2), its amplitude on the ground is larger by a factor of two. This indicates the effect of suppression of external waves, in this case by a factor of four.\n\nFor bounded solutions and at altitudes above the forcing region, the \"vertical structure equation\" in its canonical form is:\n\nwith solution\n\nformula_37\n\nusing the definitions\n\n\n\n\n\nTherefore, each wavenumber/frequency pair (a tidal \"component\") is a superposition of associated Hough functions (often called tidal \"modes\" in the literature)\nof index \"n\". The nomenclature is such that a negative value of \"n\" refers to evanescent\nmodes (no vertical propagation) and a positive value to propagating modes.\nThe equivalent depth formula_35\nis linked to the vertical wavelength formula_43, since formula_44 is the vertical wavenumber:\n\nFor propagating solutions formula_46, the vertical group velocity\n\nbecomes positive (upward energy propagation) only if formula_48 for westward\nformula_49 or if formula_50 for eastward formula_51 \npropagating waves. \nAt a given height formula_52, the wave maximizes for\n\nFor a fixed longitude formula_15, this in turn always results in downward phase progression as time\nprogresses, independent of the propagation direction. This is an important result for\nthe interpretation of observations: \"downward phase progression in time means an upward propagation of energy and therefore a tidal forcing lower in the atmosphere.\"\nAmplitude increases with height\nformula_55, as density decreases.\n\nDamping of the tides occurs primarily in the lower thermosphere region, and may be caused by turbulence from breaking gravity waves. A similar phenomena to ocean waves breaking on a beach, the energy dissipates into the background atmosphere. Molecular diffusion also becomes increasingly important at higher levels in the lower thermosphere as the mean free path increases in the rarefied atmosphere.\n\nAt thermospheric heights, attenuation of atmospheric waves, mainly due to collisions between the neutral gas and the ionospheric plasma, becomes significant so that at above about 150 km altitude, all wave modes gradually become external waves, and the Hough functions degenerate to spherical functions; e.g., mode (1, -2) develops to the spherical function P(θ), mode (2, 2) becomes P(θ), with θ the co-latitude, etc.\n. Within the thermosphere, mode (1, -2) is the predominant mode reaching diurnal temperature amplitudes at the exosphere of at least 140 K and horizontal winds of the order of 100 m/s and more increasing with geomagnetic activity. It is responsible for the electric Sq currents within the ionospheric dynamo region between about 100 and 200  km altitude.\n\nThe tides form an important mechanism for transporting energy from the lower atmosphere into the upper atmosphere, while dominating the dynamics of the mesosphere and lower thermosphere. Therefore, understanding the atmospheric tides is essential in understanding the atmosphere as a whole. Modeling and observations of atmospheric tides are needed in order to monitor and predict changes in the Earth's atmosphere (see ).\n\n"}
{"id": "39029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39029", "title": "Bamboo", "text": "Bamboo\n\nThe bamboos are evergreen perennial flowering plants in the subfamily \"Bambusoideae\" of the grass family \"Poaceae\". The word \"bamboo\" comes from the Kannada term \"bambu\" (ಬಂಬು), which was introduced to English through Indonesian and Malay.\n\nIn bamboo, as in other grasses, the internodal regions of the stem are usually hollow and the vascular bundles in the cross-section are scattered throughout the stem instead of in a cylindrical arrangement. The dicotyledonous woody xylem is also absent. The absence of secondary growth wood causes the stems of monocots, including the palms and large bamboos, to be columnar rather than tapering.\n\nBamboos include some of the fastest-growing plants in the world, due to a unique rhizome-dependent system. Certain species of bamboo can grow within a 24-hour period, at a rate of almost an hour (a growth around 1 mm every 90 seconds, or 1 inch every 40 minutes). Giant bamboos are the largest members of the grass family.\n\nBamboos are of notable economic and cultural significance in South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Asia, being used for building materials, as a food source, and as a versatile raw product. Bamboo has a higher specific compressive strength than wood, brick or concrete, and a specific tensile strength that rivals steel.\n\nBamboos have long been considered the most primitive grasses, mostly because of the presence of bracteate, indeterminate inflorescences, \"pseudospikelets\", and flowers with three lodicules, six stamens, and three stigmata. Following more recent molecular phylogenetic research, many tribes and genera of grasses formerly included in the Bambusoideae are now classified in other subfamilies, e.g. the Anomochlooideae, the Puelioideae, and the Ehrhartoideae. The subfamily in its current sense belongs to the BOP clade of grasses, where it is sister to the Pooideae (bluegrasses and relatives).\n\nThe bamboos comprise three clades classified as tribes, and these strongly correspond with geographic divisions representing the New World herbaceous species (Olyreae), tropical woody bamboos (Bambuseae), and temperate woody bamboos (Arundinarieae). The woody bamboos do not form a monophyletic group; instead, the tropical woody and herbaceous bamboos are sister to the temperate woody bamboos. Altogether, more than 1,400 species are placed in 115 genera.\n21 genera:\n\n91 genera:\n\n16 genera:\n\"Acidosasa, Ampelocalamus, Arundinaria, Borinda, Chimonocalamus, Drepanostachyum\" (\"Himalayacalamus\"), \"Fargesia, Ferrocalamus, Gaoligongshania, Gelidocalamus, Indocalamus, Oligostachyum, Pseudosasa, Sasa, Thamnocalamus, Yushania\".\n\nMost bamboo species are native to warm and moist tropical and warm temperate climates. However, many species are found in diverse climates, ranging from hot tropical regions to cool mountainous regions and highland cloud forests. In the Asia-Pacific region they occur across East Asia, from north to 50 °N latitude in Sakhalin, to south to northern Australia, and west to India and the Himalayas. China, Japan, Korea, India and Australia, all have several endemic populations. They also occur in small numbers in sub-Saharan Africa, confined to tropical areas, from southern Senegal in the north to southern Mozambique and Madagascar in the south. In the Americas, bamboo has a native range from 47 °S in southern Argentina and the beech forests of central Chile, through the South American tropical rainforests, to the Andes in Ecuador near . Bamboo is also native through Central America and Mexico, northward into the Southeastern United States. Canada and continental Europe are not known to have any native species of bamboo. As garden plants, many species grow readily outside these ranges, including most of Europe and the United States.\n\nRecently, some attempts have been made to grow bamboo on a commercial basis in the Great Lakes region of east-central Africa, especially in Rwanda. In the United States, several companies are growing, harvesting, and distributing species such as \"Phyllostachys nigra\" (Henon) and \"Phyllostachys edulis\" (Moso).\nThe two general patterns for the growth of bamboo are \"clumping\" (sympodial) and \"running\" (monopodial). Clumping bamboo species tend to spread slowly, as the growth pattern of the rhizomes is to simply expand the root mass gradually, similar to ornamental grasses. \"Running\" bamboos, though, need to be controlled during cultivation because of their potential for aggressive behavior. They spread mainly through their rhizomes, which can spread widely underground and send up new culms to break through the surface. Running bamboo species are highly variable in their tendency to spread; this is related to both the species and the soil and climate conditions. Some can send out runners of several metres a year, while others can stay in the same general area for long periods. If neglected, over time, they can cause problems by moving into adjacent areas.\n\nBamboos include some of the fastest-growing plants on Earth, with reported growth rates up to in 24 hours. However, the growth rate is dependent on local soil and climatic conditions, as well as species, and a more typical growth rate for many commonly cultivated bamboos in temperate climates is in the range of per day during the growing period. Primarily growing in regions of warmer climates during the late Cretaceous period, vast fields existed in what is now Asia. Some of the largest timber bamboo can grow over tall, and be as large as in diameter. However, the size range for mature bamboo is species-dependent, with the smallest bamboos reaching only several inches high at maturity. A typical height range that would cover many of the common bamboos grown in the United States is , depending on species. Anji County of China, known as the \"Town of Bamboo\", provides the optimal climate and soil conditions to grow, harvest, and process some of the most valued bamboo poles available worldwide.\n\nUnlike all trees, individual bamboo culms emerge from the ground at their full diameter and grow to their full height in a single growing season of three to four months. During this time, each new shoot grows vertically into a culm with no branching out until the majority of the mature height is reached. Then, the branches extend from the nodes and leafing out occurs. In the next year, the pulpy wall of each culm slowly hardens. During the third year, the culm hardens further. The shoot is now a fully mature culm. Over the next 2–5 years (depending on species), fungus begins to form on the outside of the culm, which eventually penetrates and overcomes the culm. Around 5–8 years later (species- and climate-dependent), the fungal growths cause the culm to collapse and decay. This brief life means culms are ready for harvest and suitable for use in construction within about three to seven years. Individual bamboo culms do not get any taller or larger in diameter in subsequent years than they do in their first year, and they do not replace any growth lost from pruning or natural breakage. Bamboo has a wide range of hardiness depending on species and locale. Small or young specimens of an individual species produce small culms initially. As the clump and its rhizome system mature, taller and larger culms are produced each year until the plant approaches its particular species limits of height and diameter.\n\nMany tropical bamboo species die at or near freezing temperatures, while some of the hardier temperate bamboos can survive temperatures as low as . Some of the hardiest bamboo species can be grown in USDA plant hardiness zone 5, although they typically defoliate and may even lose all above-ground growth, yet the rhizomes survive and send up shoots again the next spring. In milder climates, such as USDA zone 7 and above, most bamboo remain fully leafed out and green year-round.\n\nBamboos seldom and unpredictably flower, and the frequency of flowering varies greatly from species to species. Once flowering takes place, a plant declines and often dies entirely. In fact, many species only flower at intervals as long as 65 or 120 years. These taxa exhibit mass flowering (or gregarious flowering), with all plants in a particular 'cohort' flowering over a several-year period. Any plant derived through clonal propagation from this cohort will also flower regardless of whether it has been planted in a different location. The longest mass flowering interval known is 130 years, and it is for the species \"Phyllostachys bambusoides\" (Sieb. & Zucc.). In this species, all plants of the same stock flower at the same time, regardless of differences in geographic locations or climatic conditions, and then the bamboo dies. The lack of environmental impact on the time of flowering indicates the presence of some sort of \"alarm clock\" in each cell of the plant which signals the diversion of all energy to flower production and the cessation of vegetative growth. This mechanism, as well as the evolutionary cause behind it, is still largely a mystery.\n\nOne hypothesis to explain the evolution of this semelparous mass flowering is the predator satiation hypothesis, which argues that by fruiting at the same time, a population increases the survival rate of its seeds by flooding the area with fruit, so even if predators eat their fill, seeds will still be left over. By having a flowering cycle longer than the lifespan of the rodent predators, bamboos can regulate animal populations by causing starvation during the period between flowering events. Thus, the death of the adult clone is due to resource exhaustion, as it would be more effective for parent plants to devote all resources to creating a large seed crop than to hold back energy for their own regeneration.\n\nAnother, the fire cycle hypothesis, states that periodic flowering followed by death of the adult plants has evolved as a mechanism to create disturbance in the habitat, thus providing the seedlings with a gap in which to grow. This argues that the dead culms create a large fuel load, and also a large target for lightning strikes, increasing the likelihood of wildfire. Because bamboos can be aggressive as early successional plants, the seedlings would be able to outstrip other plants and take over the space left by their parents.\n\nHowever, both have been disputed for different reasons. The predator satiation hypothesis does not explain why the flowering cycle is 10 times longer than the lifespan of the local rodents, something not predicted. The bamboo fire cycle hypothesis is considered by a few scientists to be unreasonable; they argue that fires only result from humans and there is no natural fire in India. This notion is considered wrong based on distribution of lightning strike data during the dry season throughout India. However, another argument against this is the lack of precedent for any living organism to harness something as unpredictable as lightning strikes to increase its chance of survival as part of natural evolutionary progress.\n\nMore recently, a mathematical explanation for the extreme length of the flowering cycles has been offered, involving both the stabilizing selection implied by the predator satiation hypothesis and others, and the fact that plants that flower at longer intervals tend to release more seeds. The hypothesis claims that bamboo flowering intervals grew by integer multiplication. A mutant bamboo plant flowering at a noninteger multiple of its population's flowering interval would release its seeds alone, and would not enjoy the benefits of collective flowering (such as protection from predators). However, a mutant bamboo plant flowering at an integer multiple of its population's flowering interval would release its seeds only during collective flowering events, and would release more seeds than the average plant in the population. It could, therefore, take over the population, establishing a flowering interval that is an integer multiple of the previous flowering interval. The hypothesis predicts that observed bamboo flowering intervals should factorize into small prime numbers.\n\nThe mass fruiting also has direct economic and ecological consequences, however. The huge increase in available fruit in the forests often causes a boom in rodent populations, leading to increases in disease and famine in nearby human populations. For example, devastating consequences occur when the \"Melocanna bambusoides\" population flowers and fruits once every 30–35 years around the Bay of Bengal. The death of the bamboo plants following their fruiting means the local people lose their building material, and the large increase in bamboo fruit leads to a rapid increase in rodent populations. As the number of rodents increases, they consume all available food, including grain fields and stored food, sometimes leading to famine. These rats can also carry dangerous diseases, such as typhus, typhoid, and bubonic plague, which can reach epidemic proportions as the rodents increase in number. The relationship between rat populations and bamboo flowering was examined in a 2009 \"Nova\" documentary .\n\nIn any case, flowering produces masses of seeds, typically suspended from the ends of the branches. These seeds give rise to a new generation of plants that may be identical in appearance to those that preceded the flowering, or they may produce new cultivars with different characteristics, such as the presence or absence of striping or other changes in coloration of the culms.\n\nSeveral bamboo species are never known to set seed even when sporadically flowering has been reported. \"Bambusa vulgaris\", \"Bambusa balcooa\", and \"Dendrocalamus stocksii\" are common examples of such bamboo.\n\nSoft bamboo shoots, stems and leaves are the major food source of the giant panda of China, the red panda of Nepal, and the bamboo lemurs of Madagascar. Rats eat the fruits as described above. Mountain gorillas of Central Africa also feed on bamboo, and have been documented consuming bamboo sap which was fermented and alcoholic; chimpanzees and elephants of the region also eat the stalks.\n\nThe larvae of the bamboo borer (the moth \"Omphisa fuscidentalis\") of Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Yunnan, China feed off the pulp of live bamboo. In turn, these caterpillars are considered a local delicacy.\n\nGardeners working with bamboo plants have occasionally reported allergic reactions varying from no effects during previous exposures, to immediate itchiness and rash developing into red welts after several hours where the skin had been in contact with the plant (contact allergy), and in some cases into swollen eyelids and breathing difficulties (dyspnoea). A skin prick test using bamboo extract was positive for the immunoglobulin E (IgE) in an available case study.\n\nAlthough a few species of bamboo are always in flower at any given time, growing a specific bamboo typically requires obtaining plants as divisions of already-growing plants, rather than waiting for seeds to be produced.\n\nTimber is harvested from both cultivated and wild stands, and some of the larger bamboos, particularly species in the genus \"Phyllostachys\", are known as \"timber bamboos\".\n\nBamboo used for construction purposes must be harvested when the culms reach their greatest strength and when sugar levels in the sap are at their lowest, as high sugar content increases the ease and rate of pest infestation. As compared to forest trees, bamboo species grow fast. Bamboo plantations can be readily harvested for a shorter period than tree plantations.\n\nHarvesting of bamboo is typically undertaken according to these cycles:\n\n1) Lifecycle of the culm:\nAs each individual culm goes through a 5– to 7-year lifecycle, culms are ideally allowed to reach this level of maturity prior to full capacity harvesting. The clearing out or thinning of culms, particularly older decaying culms, helps to ensure adequate light and resources for new growth. Well-maintained clumps may have a productivity three to four times that of an unharvested wild clump. Consistent with the lifecycle described above, bamboo is harvested from two to three years through to five to seven years, depending on the species.\n\n2) Annual cycle:\nAs all growth of new bamboo occurs during the wet season, disturbing the clump during this phase will potentially damage the upcoming crop. Also during this high-rainfall period, sap levels are at their highest, and then diminish towards the dry season. Picking immediately prior to the wet/growth season may also damage new shoots. Hence, harvesting is best a few months prior to the start of the wet season.\n\n3) Daily cycle:\nDuring the height of the day, photosynthesis is at its peak, producing the highest levels of sugar in sap, making this the least ideal time of day to harvest. Many traditional practitioners believe the best time to harvest is at dawn or dusk on a waning moon.\n\nLeaching is the removal of sap after harvest. In many areas of the world, the sap levels in harvested bamboo are reduced either through leaching or postharvest photosynthesis.\nExamples of this practice include:\n\nIn the process of water leaching, the bamboo is dried slowly and evenly in the shade to avoid cracking in the outer skin of the bamboo, thereby reducing opportunities for pest infestation.\n\nDurability of bamboo in construction is directly related to how well it is handled from the moment of planting through harvesting, transportation, storage, design, construction, and maintenance. Bamboo harvested at the correct time of year and then exposed to ground contact or rain will break down just as quickly as incorrectly harvested material.\n\nRegular observations at ground level indicate major growth directions and locations of rhizomes. In dry and hard soil conditions extending rhizomes will cause cracks in the soil surface. To facilitate rhizome maintenance it's best to dig a furrow around the bamboo planting and/or plant in a raised mound or bottomless lumber frame box. During \"root pruning\" of running bamboo the cut rhizomes are typically removed; however, rhizomes take a number of months to mature, and an immature, severed rhizome usually ceases growing if left in-ground. If any bamboo shoots come up outside of the bamboo area afterwards, their presence indicates the precise location of the removed rhizome. The fibrous roots that radiate from the rhizomes do not produce more bamboo.\n\nBamboo growth can be somewhat controlled by surrounding the plant or grove with a physical barrier. Typically, steel, concrete, and specially rolled HDPE plastic are used to create the barrier, which is placed in a 60– to 90-cm-deep ditch around the planting and angled out at the top to direct the rhizomes to the surface; this is only possible if the barrier is installed in a straight line. Regardless of size of area, blocking bamboo rhizomes as a solution to controlling running bamboo is detrimental to the health of the plant, and only temporary. Bamboo within barriers usually become rootbound after a few years and start to display the signs of any unhealthy containerized plant. In addition, rhizomes pile up against the barrier and often escape over the top or under the bottom. Strong rhizomes and tools can penetrate plastic easily, so care must be taken. In small areas, regular root pruning maintenance may be the best method for controlling the running bamboos. Barriers and edging are unnecessary for clump-forming bamboos, although these may eventually need to have portions removed if they become too large.\n\nThe ornamental plant marketed as \"lucky bamboo\" is an entirely unrelated plant, \"Dracaena sanderiana\". It is a resilient member of the lily family that grows in the dark, tropical rainforests of Southeast Asia and Africa. \"Lucky bamboo\" has long been associated with the Eastern practice of \"feng shui\". Images of the plant widely available on the Web are often used to depict bamboo.\n\n\"Phyllostachys\" species of bamboo are also considered invasive and illegal to sell or propagate in some areas of the US. On a related note, Japanese knotweed is sometimes mistaken for a bamboo, but it grows wild and is considered an invasive species.\n\nAlthough the shoots (new culms that come out of the ground) of bamboo contain a toxin taxiphyllin (a cyanogenic glycoside) that produces cyanide in the gut, proper processing renders them edible. They are used in numerous Asian dishes and broths, and are available in supermarkets in various sliced forms, in both fresh and canned versions. The golden bamboo lemur ingests many times the quantity of the taxiphyllin-containing bamboo that would kill a human.\n\nThe bamboo shoot in its fermented state forms an important ingredient in cuisines across the Himalayas. In Assam, India, for example, it is called \"khorisa\". In Nepal, a delicacy popular across ethnic boundaries consists of bamboo shoots fermented with turmeric and oil, and cooked with potatoes into a dish that usually accompanies rice (\"alu tama (आलु तामा)\" in Nepali).\nIn Indonesia, they are sliced thin and then boiled with \"santan\" (thick coconut milk) and spices to make a dish called \"gulai rebung\". Other recipes using bamboo shoots are \"sayur lodeh\" (mixed vegetables in coconut milk) and \"lun pia\" (sometimes written \"lumpia\": fried wrapped bamboo shoots with vegetables). The shoots of some species contain toxins that need to be leached or boiled out before they can be eaten safely.\n\nPickled bamboo, used as a condiment, may also be made from the pith of the young shoots.\n\nThe sap of young stalks tapped during the rainy season may be fermented to make \"ulanzi\" (a sweet wine) or simply made into a soft drink. Bamboo leaves are also used as wrappers for steamed dumplings which usually contains glutinous rice and other ingredients.\n\nPickled bamboo shoots (Nepali: तामा \"tama\") are cooked with black-eyed beans as a delicacy in Nepal. Many Nepalese restaurants around the world serve this dish as \"aloo bodi tama\". Fresh bamboo shoots are sliced and pickled with mustard seeds and turmeric and kept in glass jar in direct sunlight for the best taste. It is used alongside many dried beans in cooking during winters. Baby shoots (Nepali: \"tusa\") of a very different variety of bamboo (Nepali: निगालो Nigalo) native to Nepal is cooked as a curry in hilly regions.\nIn Sambalpur, India, the tender shoots are grated into juliennes and fermented to prepare \"kardi\". The name is derived from the Sanskrit word for bamboo shoot, \"karira\". This fermented bamboo shoot is used in various culinary preparations, notably \"amil\", a sour vegetable soup. It is also made into pancakes using rice flour as a binding agent. The shoots that have turned a little fibrous are fermented, dried, and ground to sand-sized particles to prepare a garnish known as \"hendua\". It is also cooked with tender pumpkin leaves to make sag green leaves.\n\nIn Konkani cuisine, the tender shoots (\"kirlu\") are grated and cooked with crushed jackfruit seeds to prepare \"kirla sukke\".\n\nThe empty hollow in the stalks of larger bamboo is often used to cook food in many Asian cultures. Soups are boiled and rice is cooked in the hollows of fresh stalks of bamboo directly over a flame. Similarly, steamed tea is sometimes rammed into bamboo hollows to produce compressed forms of Pu-erh tea. Cooking food in bamboo is said to give the food a subtle but distinctive taste.\n\nIn addition, bamboo is frequently used for cooking utensils within many cultures, and is used in the manufacture of chopsticks. In modern times, some see bamboo tools as an ecofriendly alternative to other manufactured utensils.\n\nBamboo charcoal has been traditionally used as fuel in China and Japan. Bamboo can also be utilized as a biofuel crop.\n\nIn old times in India people were using hand made pens (Kalam) made by thin bamboo sticks (5-10 mm diameter and 10-15 cm long) by simply peeling it on one side and making a nib like pattern at the end. This pen would then be dipped in ink for writing.\n\nBamboo was used by humans for various purposes at a very early time. Categories of Bambooworking include:\n\nBamboo, like true wood, is a natural composite material with a high strength-to-weight ratio useful for structures.\n\nIn its natural form, bamboo as a construction material is traditionally associated with the cultures of South Asia, East Asia, and the South Pacific, to some extent in Central and South America, and by extension in the aesthetic of Tiki culture. In China and India, bamboo was used to hold up simple suspension bridges, either by making cables of split bamboo or twisting whole culms of sufficiently pliable bamboo together. One such bridge in the area of Qian-Xian is referenced in writings dating back to 960 AD and may have stood since as far back as the third century BC, due largely to continuous maintenance.\n\nBamboo has also long been used as scaffolding; the practice has been banned in China for buildings over six stories, but is still in continuous use for skyscrapers in Hong Kong. In the Philippines, the nipa hut is a fairly typical example of the most basic sort of housing where bamboo is used; the walls are split and woven bamboo, and bamboo slats and poles may be used as its support. In Japanese architecture, bamboo is used primarily as a supplemental and/or decorative element in buildings such as fencing, fountains, grates, and gutters, largely due to the ready abundance of quality timber.\n\nVarious structural shapes may be made by training the bamboo to assume them as it grows. Squared sections of bamboo are created by compressing the growing stalk within a square form. Arches may similarly be created by forcing the bamboo's growth into the desired form, costing much less than it would to obtain the same shape with regular wood timber. More conventional forming methods, such as the application of heat and pressure, may also be used to curve or flatten the cut stalks.\n\nBamboo can be cut and laminated into sheets and planks. This process involves cutting stalks into thin strips, planing them flat, and boiling and drying the strips; they are then glued, pressed, and finished. Long used in China and Japan, entrepreneurs started developing and selling laminated bamboo flooring in the West during the mid-1990s; products made from bamboo laminate, including flooring, cabinetry, furniture, and even decorations, are currently surging in popularity, transitioning from the boutique market to mainstream providers such as Home Depot. The bamboo goods industry (which also includes small goods, fabric, etc.) is expected to be worth $25 billion by 2012. The quality of bamboo laminate varies among manufacturers and varies according to the maturity of the plant from which it was harvested (six years being considered the optimum); the sturdiest products fulfill their claims of being up to three times as hard as oak hardwood while others may be softer than standard hardwood.\n\nBamboo intended for use in construction should be treated to resist insects and rot. The most common solution for this purpose is a mixture of borax and boric acid. Another process involves boiling cut bamboo to remove the starches that attract insects.\n\nBamboo has been used as reinforcement for concrete in those areas where it is plentiful, though dispute exists over its effectiveness in the various studies done on the subject. Bamboo does have the necessary strength to fulfil this function, but untreated bamboo will swell with water absorbed from the concrete, causing it to crack. Several procedures must be followed to overcome this shortcoming.\n\nSeveral institutes, businesses, and universities are researching the use of bamboo as an ecological construction material. In the United States and France, it is possible to get houses made entirely of bamboo, which are earthquake- and cyclone-resistant and internationally certified. Three ISO standards are given for bamboo as a construction material.\n\nIn parts of India, bamboo is used for drying clothes indoors, both as a rod high up near the ceiling to hang clothes on, and as a stick wielded with acquired expert skill to hoist, spread, and to take down the clothes when dry. It is also commonly used to make ladders, which apart from their normal function, are also used for carrying bodies in funerals. In Maharashtra, the bamboo groves and forests are called \"Veluvana\", the name \"velu\" for bamboo is most likely from Sanskrit, while \"vana\" means forest.\n\nFurthermore, bamboo is also used to create flagpoles for saffron-coloured, Hindu religious flags, which can be seen fluttering across India, especially in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, as well as in Guyana and Suriname in South America.\n\nBamboo was used for the structural members of the India pavilion at Expo 2010 in Shanghai. The pavilion is the world’s largest bamboo dome, about in diameter, with bamboo beams/members overlaid with a ferro-concrete slab, waterproofing, copper plate, solar PV panels, a small windmill, and live plants. A total of of bamboo was used. The dome is supported on 18-m-long steel piles and a series of steel ring beams. The bamboo was treated with borax and boric acid as a fire retardant and insecticide and bent in the required shape. The bamboo sections were joined with reinforcement bars and concrete mortar to achieve the necessary lengths.\n\nSince the fibers of bamboo are very short (less than ), they are not usually transformed into yarn by a natural process. The usual process by which textiles labeled as being made of bamboo are produced uses only rayon made from the fibers with heavy employment of chemicals. To accomplish this, the fibers are broken down with chemicals and extruded through mechanical spinnerets; the chemicals include lye, carbon disulfide, and strong acids. Retailers have sold both end products as \"bamboo fabric\" to cash in on bamboo's current ecofriendly cachet; however, the Canadian Competition Bureau and the US Federal Trade Commission, as of mid-2009, are cracking down on the practice of labeling bamboo rayon as natural bamboo fabric. Under the guidelines of both agencies, these products must be labeled as rayon with the optional qualifier \"from bamboo\".\n\nBamboo was in widespread use in early China as a medium for written documents. The earliest surviving examples of such documents, written in ink on string-bound bundles of bamboo strips (or \"slips\"), date from the 5th century BC during the Warring States period. However, references in earlier texts surviving on other media make it clear that some precursor of these Warring States period bamboo slips was in use as early as the late Shang period (from about 1250 BC).\n\nBamboo or wooden strips were the standard writing material during the early Han dynasty, and excavated examples have been found in abundance. Subsequently, paper began to displace bamboo and wooden strips from mainstream uses, and by the 4th century AD, bamboo slips had been largely abandoned as a medium for writing in China.\n\nBamboo fiber has been used to make paper in China since early times. A high-quality, handmade paper is still produced in small quantities. Coarse bamboo paper is still used to make spirit money in many Chinese communities.\n\nBamboo pulps are mainly produced in China, Myanmar, Thailand, and India, and are used in printing and writing papers. Several paper industries are surviving on bamboo forests. Ballarpur (Chandrapur, Maharstra) paper mills use bamboo for paper production. The most common bamboo species used for paper are \"Dendrocalamus asper\" and \"Bambusa blumeana\". It is also possible to make dissolving pulp from bamboo. The average fiber length is similar to hardwoods, but the properties of bamboo pulp are closer to softwood pulps due to it having a very broad fiber length distribution. With the help of molecular tools, it is now possible to distinguish the superior fiber-yielding species/varieties even at juvenile stages of their growth, which can help in unadulterated merchandise production.\n\nBamboo has often been used to construct weapons and is still incorporated in several Asian martial arts.\n\nBamboo has traditionally been used to make a wide range of everyday utensils and cutting boards, particularly in Japan, where archaeological excavations have uncovered bamboo baskets dating to the Late Jōmon period (2000–1000 BC).\n\nBamboo has a long history of use in Asian furniture. Chinese bamboo furniture is a distinct style based on a millennia-long tradition, and bamboo is also used for floors due to its high hardness.\n\nSeveral manufacturers offer bamboo bicycles, surfboards, snowboards, and skateboards.\n\nDue to its flexibility, bamboo is also used to make fishing rods. The split cane rod is especially prized for fly fishing.\nBamboo has been traditionally used in Malaysia as a firecracker called a \"meriam buluh\" or bamboo cannon. Four-foot-long sections of bamboo are cut, and a mixture of water and calcium carbide are introduced. The resulting acetylene gas is ignited with a stick, producing a loud bang.\nBamboo can be used in water desalination. A bamboo filter is used to remove the salt from seawater.\n\nMany ethnic groups in remote areas that have water access in Asia use bamboo that is 3–5 years old to make rafts. They use 8 to 12 poles, long, laid together side by side to a width of about . Once the poles are lined up together, they cut a hole crosswise through the poles at each end and use a small bamboo pole pushed through that hole like a screw to hold all the long bamboo poles together. Floating houses use whole bamboo stalks tied together in a big bunch to support the house floating in the water. Bamboo is also used to make eating utensils such as chopsticks, trays, and tea scoops.\n\nThe Song Dynasty (960–1279 AD) Chinese scientist and polymath Shen Kuo (1031–1095) used the evidence of underground petrified bamboo found in the dry northern climate of Yan'an, Shanbei region, Shaanxi province to support his geological theory of gradual climate change.\n\nBamboo's long life makes it a Chinese symbol of uprightness and an Indian symbol of friendship. The rarity of its blossoming has led to the flowers' being regarded as a sign of impending famine. This may be due to rats feeding upon the profusion of flowers, then multiplying and destroying a large part of the local food supply. The most recent flowering began in May 2006 (see Mautam). Bamboo is said to bloom in this manner only about every 50 years (see 28–60 year examples in FAO: 'gregarious' species table).\n\nIn Chinese culture, the bamboo, plum blossom, orchid, and chrysanthemum (often known as \"méi lán zhú jú\" 梅兰竹菊) are collectively referred to as the Four Gentlemen. These four plants also represent the four seasons and, in Confucian ideology, four aspects of the \"junzi\" (\"prince\" or \"noble one\"). The pine (\"sōng\" 松), the bamboo (\"zhú\" 竹), and the plum blossom (\"méi\" 梅) are also admired for their perseverance under harsh conditions, and are together known as the \"Three Friends of Winter\" (岁寒三友 \"suìhán sānyǒu\") in Chinese culture. The \"Three Friends of Winter\" is traditionally used as a system of ranking in Japan, for example in sushi sets or accommodations at a traditional \"ryokan\". Pine (\"matsu\" 松) is of the first rank, bamboo (\"take\" 竹) is of second rank, and plum (\"ume\" 梅) is of the third.\n\nThe Bozo ethnic group of West Africa take their name from the Bambara phrase \"bo-so\", which means \"bamboo house\". Bamboo is also the national plant of St. Lucia.\n\nBamboo, one of the \"Four Gentlemen\" (bamboo, orchid, plum blossom and chrysanthemum), plays such an important role in traditional Chinese culture that it is even regarded as a behavior model of the gentleman. As bamboo has features such as uprightness, tenacity, and modesty, people endow bamboo with integrity, elegance, and plainness, though it is not physically strong. Countless poems praising bamboo written by ancient Chinese poets are actually metaphorically about people who exhibited these characteristics. According to laws, an ancient poet, Bai Juyi (772–846), thought that to be a gentleman, a man does not need to be physically strong, but he must be mentally strong, upright, and perseverant. Just as a bamboo is hollow-hearted, he should open his heart to accept anything of benefit and never have arrogance or prejudice.\n\nBamboo is not only a symbol of a gentleman, but also plays an important role in Buddhism, which was introduced into China in the first century. As canons of Buddhism forbids cruelty to animals, flesh and egg were not allowed in the diet. The tender bamboo shoot (\"sǔn\"筍 in Chinese) thus became a nutritious alternative. Preparation methods developed over thousands of years have come to be incorporated into Asian cuisines, especially for monks. A Buddhist monk, Zan Ning, wrote a manual of the bamboo shoot called \"\"Sǔn Pǔ\"筍譜\" offering descriptions and recipes for many kinds of bamboo shoots.\nBamboo shoot has always been a traditional dish on the Chinese dinner table, especially in southern China.\nIn ancient times, those who could afford a big house with a yard would plant bamboo in their garden.\n\nIn Japan, a bamboo forest sometimes surrounds a Shinto shrine as part of a sacred barrier against evil. Many Buddhist temples also have bamboo groves.\n\nBamboo plays an important part of the culture of Vietnam. Bamboo symbolizes the spirit of Vovinam (a Vietnamese martial arts): \"cương nhu phối triển\" (coordination between hard and soft (martial arts)). Bamboo also symbolizes the Vietnamese hometown and Vietnamese soul: the gentlemanlike, straightforwardness, hard working, optimism, unity, and adaptability. A Vietnamese proverb says, \"Tre già, măng mọc\" (When the bamboo is old, the bamboo sprouts appear), the meaning being Vietnam will never be annihilated; if the previous generation dies, the children take their place. Therefore, the Vietnam nation and Vietnamese value will be maintained and developed eternally. Traditional Vietnamese villages are surrounded by thick bamboo hedges (\"lũy tre\").\n\nSeveral Asian cultures, including that of the Andaman Islands, believe humanity emerged from a bamboo stem.\n\nIn Philippine mythology, one of the more famous creation accounts tells of the first man, \"Malakás\" (\"Strong\"), and the first woman, \"Maganda\" (\"Beautiful\"), each emerged from one half of a split bamboo stem on an island formed after the battle between Sky and Ocean. In Malaysia, a similar story includes a man who dreams of a beautiful woman while sleeping under a bamboo plant; he wakes up and breaks the bamboo stem, discovering the woman inside. The Japanese folktale \"Tale of the Bamboo Cutter\" (\"Taketori Monogatari\") tells of a princess from the Moon emerging from a shining bamboo section. Hawaiian bamboo \"('ohe)\" is a \"kinolau\" or body form of the Polynesian creator god Kāne.\nA bamboo cane is also the weapon of Vietnamese legendary hero, Thánh Gióng, who had grown up immediately and magically since the age of three because of his wish to liberate his land from Ân invaders. An ancient Vietnamese legend (The Hundred-knot Bamboo Tree) tells of a poor, young farmer who fell in love with his landlord's beautiful daughter. The farmer asked the landlord for his daughter's hand in marriage, but the proud landlord would not allow her to be bound in marriage to a poor farmer. The landlord decided to foil the marriage with an impossible deal; the farmer must bring him a \"bamboo tree of 100 nodes\". But Gautama Buddha (\"Bụt\") appeared to the farmer and told him that such a tree could be made from 100 nodes from several different trees. \"Bụt\" gave to him four magic words to attach the many nodes of bamboo: \"Khắc nhập, khắc xuất\", which means \"joined together immediately, fell apart immediately\". The triumphant farmer returned to the landlord and demanded his daughter. Curious to see such a long bamboo, the landlord was magically joined to the bamboo when he touched it, as the young farmer said the first two magic words. The story ends with the happy marriage of the farmer and the landlord's daughter after the landlord agreed to the marriage and asked to be separated from the bamboo.\n\nIn a Chinese legend, the Emperor Yao gave two of his daughters to the future Emperor Shun as a test for his potential to rule. Shun passed the test of being able to run his household with the two emperor's daughters as wives, and thus Yao made Shun his successor, bypassing his unworthy son. After Shun's death, the tears of his two bereaved wives fell upon the bamboos growing there explains the origin of spotted bamboo. The two women later became goddesses Xiangshuishen after drowning themselves in the Xiang River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "802202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802202", "title": "Banda Sea", "text": "Banda Sea\n\nThe Banda Sea is a sea in the Maluku Islands of Indonesia, connected to the Pacific Ocean but surrounded by hundreds of islands, as well as the Halmahera and Ceram Seas. It is about 1000 km (600 mi) east to west, and about 500 km (300 mi) north to south.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) defines the Banda Sea as being one of the waters of the East Indian Archipelago. The IHO defines its limits as follows:\n\n\"On the North\" The Southern limits of the Molukka Sea and the Western and Southern limits of the Ceram Sea.\n\"On the East.\" From Tg Borang, the Northern point of Noehoe Tjoet <nowiki>[</nowiki>Kai Besar<nowiki>]</nowiki>, through this island to its Southern point, thence a line to the Northeast point of Fordata, through this island and across to the Northeast point of Larat, Tanimbar Islands (), down the East coast of Jamdena <nowiki>[</nowiki>Yamdena<nowiki>]</nowiki> Island to its Southern point, thence through Anggarmasa to the North point of Selaroe and through this island to Tg Aro Oesoe its Southern point ().\n\n\"On the South.\" A line from Tanjong Aro Oesoe, through Sermata to Tanjong Njadora the Southeast point of Lakov <nowiki>[</nowiki>Lakor, \"sic\"<nowiki>]</nowiki> () along the South coasts of Lakov <nowiki>[</nowiki>Lakor<nowiki>]</nowiki>, Moa and Leti Islands to Tanjong Toet Pateh, the West point of Leti, thence a line to Tanjong Sewirawa the Eastern extremity of Timor and along the North coast as far as longitude 125° East.\n\n\"On the West.\" From a point on the North coast of Timor in 125° East up this meridian to Alor Island, thence round the East point and along the North coasts of the Alor, Pantar, Lomblen and Adoenara Islands and thence across the Northern end of Flores Strait to Tanjong Serbete the Eastern extreme of Flores, thence a line from its Northern point () to Kalaotoa Island () and through the chain of islands lying between it and the South point of Pulo Salayar, through this island and across the Strait to Tanjong Lassa, Celebes (), thence along the Southern limit of the Gulf of Boni and up the East coast of Celebes to Tanjong Botok ().\nIslands bordering the Banda Sea include Sulawesi to the west, Buru, Ambon Island, Seram, Aru Islands, Barat Daya Islands, to the Tanimbar Islands, the Kai Islands and Timor in the East. Although the borders of the sea are hazardous to navigation, with many small rocky islands, the middle of the sea is relatively open. Island groups within the sea include the Banda Islands. A number of islands in the Banda Sea are active volcanoes including Gunung Api and Manuk in the Banda Islands.\n\nThe Banda arc is famous for its 180° curvature and is, in Timor, generally agreed to be the product of collision between a volcanic arc and the Australian continental margin. The Banda Sea occupies the main portion of the Banda Sea Plate. The southern margin of the sea consists of island arcs above subduction zones. To the east of the Sunda Trench is the Timor Trough which lies south of Timor, the Tanimbar Trough south of the Tanimbar Islands and the Aru Trough east of the Aru Islands. These trenches are the subduction zone of the Indo-Australian plate beneath the Banda Sea Plate, where the Indo-Australian Plate moves northwards. Fore-arc sediments progressively carried northwards by the Indo-Australian Plate have been folded and faulted forming Timor island. To the northeast lies Seram Island which overlies the subduction of the Bird's Head Plate of West Papua.\n\nEarthquakes are very frequent in the area, due to the confluence of three tectonic plates - Eurasian, Pacific and Indo-Australian plates.\n\nThe Banda Islands, Tanimbar Islands, Kai Islands and other smaller islands in the Banda Sea have been designated as the Banda Sea Islands moist deciduous forests ecoregion, the eastern end of the Wallacea biogeographical region containing a mixture of plant and animal species from both Asia and Australasia. These islands are covered in mostly intact rain forest and home to a number of endemic plants and animals including twenty-one birds, a very high number for this small ecoregion. There are only twenty-two mammals on these islands including three endemics, the rare dusky pademelon \"(Thylogale brunii)\" and tomb bat (\"Taphozous achates\"), and an endangered mouse-eared bat, the Kei myotis \"(Myotis stalkeri)\". The birdlife is threatened by egg collectors and even more by cats and rodents that have been introduced to the islands. Yamdena in the Tanimbar Islands is an example of a large and fairly unspoilt habitat and is a protected area. The base for visiting these islands is by plane or ship from Ambon Island to the north, the largest of the Maluku Islands. The Banda and Kei Islands, although remote, are visited by tourists for snorkelling and for their unspoilt beaches. Various cetacean species have been recorded including either or both blue and pygmy blue whales and Omura's whales.\n\n"}
{"id": "28621663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28621663", "title": "Black Creek (Ontario)", "text": "Black Creek (Ontario)\n\nBlack Creek in Ontario may refer to one of 37 creeks of that name:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1202436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1202436", "title": "Cloudland Canyon State Park", "text": "Cloudland Canyon State Park\n\nCloudland Canyon State Park is a Georgia state park located near Trenton and Cooper Heights on the western edge of Lookout Mountain. One of the largest and most scenic parks in Georgia, it contains rugged geology, and offers visitors a range of vistas across the deep gorge cut through the mountain by Sitton Gulch Creek, where the elevation varies from 800 to over 1,800 feet. Views of the canyon can be seen from the picnic area parking lot, in addition to additional views located along the rim trail. At the bottom of the gorge, two waterfalls cascade across layers of sandstone and shale, ending in small pools below.\n\nThe park, previously known as Sitton Gulch (or Gulf) or Trenton Gulf, was purchased in stages by the state of Georgia beginning in 1938. Under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, a project of Civilian Conservation Corps during the Great Depression built the first facilities and signs in the park, which opened the following year. Today the park features a variety of campsites, cabins, hiking and recreational activities.\n\nCloudland Canyon was designated a state park in 1939 when the state began acquiring land from private owners. Three of these owners, from the Mathews, McCauley and McKaig families, still reside in the area. Expansion of the park continues sporadically as new land is purchased for it. The park was originally , and has been expanded to its present size of .\n\nUntil 1939 the only access to the area (and much of Dade County, Georgia) was through Tennessee or Alabama. That year Georgia began work on Highway 136 to connect U.S. 41 to the recently established park. The Civilian Conservation Corps did much of the early work to construct the state park and access roads.\n\nThe park is located on the Cumberland Plateau, atop Lookout Mountain. On the summit of Lookout Mountain, the waters of Daniel Creek and Bear Creek cut gorges through the rock, converging to form Sitton Gulch Creek. The flat-topped mountains of the Cumberland Plateau are significantly different from the narrow Armuchee ridges beyond nearby Chickamauga Valley to the east. From a geological standpoint, Lookout Mountain is transitional between the flat-lying sedimentary beds of central Tennessee, and the ridges and valley to the east, which display more intensive folding and faulting. Most of the canyon's rock formations consist of sandstone; shale layers below the sandstone are marked by pine trees.\n\nLookout Mountain was created through a combination of seismic activity and erosion. It was uplifted during the period of mountain building that formed the Appalachians, known as the Appalachian orogeny. Over 200 million years ago, the modern-day parklands lay beneath an ocean. When first formed, the entire mountain was underwater, but the rim of the canyon eventually became a beach along the edge of the receding ocean. As the ocean dried up, Sitton Gulch Creek and its tributaries, particularly Daniel Creek, eroded the rock. The sandstone forming the bluffs has a tendency to fracture into blocks, creating unusual boulder formations. The concave shape of the top of Lookout Mountain also drains rainwater through fissures into the underlying limestone, forming miles of subterranean caves in the area.\n\nThe canyon is more than deep, ranging in elevation from to over ; the park's peak elevation is . The bottom of Cloudland canyon contains a slope of rock talus, which are sandstone and shale fragments. The valley floor is also rich in fossil-bearing limestone.\n\nThe Park contains several well-marked trails which allow visitors to view the geology of the canyon and its surroundings, which spans millions of years.\nA paved, wheelchair-accessible trail about long overlooks the rim of the canyon. The park also features four more extensive hiking trails, including one backpacking trail. These trails are generally considered moderate in difficulty.\n\nThe Waterfalls Trail begins on a paved section, at the main overlook, and progresses into the canyon along a 40-degree slope. Most of the trail consists of gravel, and a 600-step staircase. Each waterfall emanates from Daniel Creek, and both cascade down sheer faces at and . The trail is generally considered to be a strenuous hike, which can take up to 90 minutes to complete. Cherokee Falls is from the trailhead; Hemlock Falls, at the bottom of the canyon, appears at . Each cascades into small pools at the base of the canyon, and continue down through a boulder-strewn stream bed. The creek flow feeding the waterfalls varies considerably according to the season. The Sitton's Gulch trail, commencing at the bottom of the Waterfalls Trail, runs parallel to the creek until it ends in a parking area in Trenton.\n\nIn contrast, the long West Rim Loop Trail is rated as moderately difficult, although it contains a few short, steep rocky sections. A scenic hike beginning at the Daniels Creek Bridge, it offers panoramic views before climbing out of the canyon and onto the plateau. This trail also provides views of Trenton, Georgia, neighboring Sand Mountain, and of Cloudland Canyon. Rhododendron and mountain laurel thickets are interspersed with sourgum and dogwood; large oaks, hickories, hemlocks and maples shade the trail. Cottages, West Rim, and Walk-In Camping areas are accessible via the West Rim Loop. Passing over varied terrain, most of the hike is moderately difficult, and is considered strenuous along several short sections.\n\nThe Backcountry Loop Trail provides access to the park's eleven secluded primitive hike-in camping sites. Beginning at the parking area for group camping, the trail passes through hemlock groves, before descending on a moderate grade into a hollow filled with spring and summer flowers. At the far end of the loop, hikers emerge from the hemlock groves onto level trail, among oaks and hickories, before returning to the parking area.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, the park reopened the Bear Creek Trail, which had been closed to hikers for nearly a decade. This approximately trail is the longest trail in the park. This trail begins as a spur off of the Back Country Trail and drops down to Bear Creek. After crossing the creek, the trail continues up until it becomes a loop around the northeast portion of the park. Around the area of the creek, the trail crosses over private property for a brief distance. During wet seasons, the creek crossing can be difficult as there is no bridge or dry crossing available.\n\nCloudland Canyon State park features a variety of camping and lodging options. There are 16 rental cottages as well as a group lodge. The park also offers 62 tent, trailer and RV sites, 28 walk-in camp sites, and 10 backcountry camp sites for backpackers. Four pioneer campsites provide facilities for groups of tent campers. The East Rim has 24 camp sites located along a loop road; many of the sites can accommodate RVs, and all feature water and electric hookups. Bathing facilities are located nearby. The West Rim Camp ground, located across the gorge and away from the park's busiest section, is located in thick forest, and hosts approximately 48 camp sites spread along two loops. It too offers bathing facilities.\n\nPicnic areas include a group pavilion, tennis courts, a children's playground and a disc golf course. The park has an interpretive center near the main parking lot, adjacent to the canyon. Annual events hosted in the park include a Wildflower Program in April, Adventure Weekend (also in April), and a Kids' Catfish Rodeo in May.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31655508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31655508", "title": "Edenderry Power Station", "text": "Edenderry Power Station\n\nEdenderry Power Station is a large peat-fired power station near Edenderry, in the Republic of Ireland. The station is capable of generating up to of power, making it the second-largest peat-fired power station in the country. It has been owned by Bord na Móna since 2006 and is part of the Powergen section of the Peat Energy Division. It was purchased from E.ON in December 2005. Trials of co-fuelling the plant with biomass commenced in 2007 and were successful. Currently the plant is co-fired with about 9% biomass, with a target of 30% co-fuelling by 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4804449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804449", "title": "Eluvium", "text": "Eluvium\n\nIn geology, eluvium or eluvial deposits are those geological deposits and soils that are derived by \"in situ\" weathering or weathering plus gravitational movement or accumulation. \n\nThe process of removal of materials from geological or soil horizons is called eluviation or leaching. There is a difference in the usage of this term in geology and soil science. In soil science, eluviation is the transport of soil material from upper layers of soil to lower levels by downward precipitation of water across soil horizons, and accumulation of this material (illuvial deposit) in lower levels is called illuviation. In geology, the removed material is irrelevant, and the deposit (eluvial deposit) is the remaining material. Eluviation occurs when precipitation exceeds evaporation.\n\nA soil horizon formed due to eluviation is an eluvial zone or eluvial horizon. In a typical soil profile, the eluvial horizon refers to a light-colored zone located (depending on context and literature) either at the lower part of the A horizon (symbol: Ae) or within a distinct horizon (E horizon) below the A, where the process is most intense and rapid. Yet some sources consider the eluvial zone to be the A horizon plus the (distinct) E horizon, as eluviation technically occurs in both. \n\nThe strict eluvial horizon (E horizon) is typically light gray, clay-depleted, contains little organic matter and has a high concentration of silt and sand particles composed of quartz and other resistant minerals. \n\nEluvial ore deposits are those such as tungsten and gold placer deposits formed by settling and enriched by the winnowing or removal of lower density materials. Diamonds within \"yellow ground\" (weathered portions of kimberlites) may be considered to be eluvial deposits. Cassiterite and columbite-tantalite deposits also occur as residual or eluvial concentrations. The Pitinga tin deposit in Brazil, an eluvial deposit, is one of the largest tin mines in the world. Weathering \"supergene\" enrichment of an apatite rich carbonatite in Ontario has produced a significant eluvial phosphate ore deposit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51667103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51667103", "title": "Energy storage as a service", "text": "Energy storage as a service\n\nEnergy Storage as a Service (ESaaS) allows a facility to benefit from the advantages of an energy storage system by entering into a service agreement without purchasing the system. Energy storage systems provide a range of services to generate revenue, create savings, and improve electricity resiliency. The operation of the ESaaS system is a unique combination of an advanced battery storage system, an energy management system, and a service contract which can deliver value to a business by providing reliable power more economically.\n\nThe term ESaaS was developed and trademarked by Constant Power Inc., a Toronto-based company, in 2016. The service has been designed to work in the North American open electricity markets. Notable other companies offering Energy Storage-as-a-Service include GI Energy, AES Corporation, STEM, and Younicos. \n\nESaaS is the combination of an energy storage system, a control and monitoring system, and a service contract.\n\nThe most common energy storage systems used for ESaaS are lithium-ion or flow batteries due to their compact size, non-invasive installation, high efficiencies, and fast reaction times but other storage mediums may be used such as compressed air, flywheels, or pumped hydro. The batteries are sized based on the facility's needs and is paired with a power inverter to convert the DC power to AC power in order to connect directly to the facility’s electricity supply.\n\nESaaS systems are remotely monitored and controlled by the ESaaS operator using a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. The SCADA communicates with the facility's Energy Management System (EMS), Power Conversion System (PCS), and Battery Management System (BMS). The ESaaS operator is responsible for ensuring the ESaaS system is monitoring and responding to the facility’s needs as well as overriding commands to participate in regional incentive programs such as coincident peak management and demand response programs in real time.\n\nThe facility benefiting from the ESaaS system is linked to the ESaaS system operator through a service contract. The contract specifies the length of the service term, payment structure, and list of services the facility wishes to participate in.\n\nESaaS is used to perform a variety of services including:\n\nESaaS primarily benefits large energy consumers with an average demand of over 500 kW, although, the service may benefit smaller facilities depending on regional incentives. Current early adopters of ESaaS are manufacturers (chemical, electrical, lighting, metal, petrochemical, plastics), commercial (retail, large offices, medium offices, multi-residential, supermarkets), public facilities (colleges, universities, hotels, hospitality, schools), and resources (oil & extraction, pulp & paper, metals & ore, food processing, greenhouses).\n\nTo participate in an ESaaS service, the installation system benefactor does not require any capital outlay. Upon installing an ESaaS service, the facility sees immediate savings and/or revenue generation. Initial capital is often a hurdle for facilities to adopt an energy storage system since in most cases, the payback period of an energy storage system is 5–10 years.\n\nESaaS is a contracted service that is automatically controlled by a third party. This eliminates responsibility for the facility to allocate resources to manage their energy profile allowing a facility to operate their core business. The system operators have knowledge of local electricity sectors that continually monitor and update system protocols as regional markets change. The information is used to optimize the value realized by the ESaaS system while still meeting facility requirements.\n\nFor most ESaaS services, energy is stored during night time, off-peak hours when energy production is created from non-carbon emitting sources. The energy is then used to offset the required carbon emitting production during peak-times. The load shifting capability provided by ESaaS displaces heavy emitting generation requirements.\n\nESaaS contracts may be structured as a cost sharing model or a fixed monthly price over a contracted term. Cost sharing models share the economical benefits of ESaaS after they are realized by the customer. The fixed price is based on potential economic benefit and applicable programs in the region of deployment. The ESaaS contract price is always less than the economic value provided by the service to ensure the client retains a net positive value through the service.\n"}
{"id": "10481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10481", "title": "Enki", "text": "Enki\n\nEnki (; Sumerian: ) is the Sumerian god of water, knowledge (\"gestú\"), mischief, crafts (\"gašam\"), and creation (\"nudimmud\"). He was later known as Ea in Akkadian and Babylonian mythology. He was originally patron god of the city of Eridu, but later the influence of his cult spread throughout Mesopotamia and to the Canaanites, Hittites and Hurrians. He was associated with the southern band of constellations called \"stars of Ea\", but also with the constellation AŠ-IKU, \"the Field\" (Square of Pegasus). Beginning around the second millennium BCE, he was sometimes referred to in writing by the numeric ideogram for \"40\", occasionally referred to as his \"sacred number\". The planet Mercury, associated with Babylonian \"Nabu\" (the son of Marduk) was, in Sumerian times, identified with Enki.\n\nA large number of myths about Enki have been collected from many sites, stretching from Southern Iraq to the Levantine coast. He is mentioned in the earliest extant cuneiform inscriptions throughout the region and was prominent from the third millennium down to Hellenistic times.\n\nThe exact meaning of his name is uncertain: the common translation is \"Lord of the Earth\". The Sumerian \"En\" is translated as a title equivalent to \"lord\" and was originally a title given to the High Priest. \"Ki\" means \"earth\", but there are theories that \"ki\" in this name has another origin, possibly \"kig\" of unknown meaning, or \"kur\" meaning \"mound\".\nThe name Ea is allegedly Hurrian in origin while others claim that his name 'Ea' is possibly of Semitic origin and may be a derivation from the West-Semitic root *hyy meaning \"life\" in this case used for \"spring\", \"running water\". In Sumerian E-A means \"the house of water\", and it has been suggested that this was originally the name for the shrine to the god at Eridu. It has also been suggested that the original non-anthropomorphic divinity at Eridu was not Enki but Abzu. The emergence of Enki as the divine lover of Ninhursag, and the divine battle between the younger Igigi divinities and Abzu, saw the Abzu, the underground waters of the Aquifer, becoming the place in which the foundations of the temple were built. With some Sumerian deity names as Enlil there are variations like Elil. En means \"Lord\" and E means \"temple\". It is likely that E-A is the Sumerian short form for \"Lord of Water\", as Enki is a god of water. Ab in Abzu also means water.\n\nThe main temple to Enki was called \"E-abzu\", meaning \"abzu temple\" (also \"E-en-gur-a\", meaning \"house of the subterranean waters\"), a ziggurat temple surrounded by Euphratean marshlands near the ancient Persian Gulf coastline at Eridu. It was the first temple known to have been built in Southern Iraq. Four separate excavations at the site of Eridu have demonstrated the existence of a shrine dating back to the earliest Ubaid period, more than 6,500 years ago. Over the following 4,500 years, the temple was expanded 18 times, until it was abandoned during the Persian period. On this basis Thorkild Jacobsen has hypothesized that the original deity of the temple was Abzu, with his attributes later being taken by Enki over time. P. Steinkeller believes that, during the earliest period, Enki had a subordinate position to a goddess (possibly Ninhursag), taking the role of divine consort or high priest, later taking priority. The Enki temple had at its entrance a pool of fresh water, and excavation has found numerous carp bones, suggesting collective feasts. Carp are shown in the twin water flows running into the later God Enki, suggesting continuity of these features over a very long period. These features were found at all subsequent Sumerian temples, suggesting that this temple established the pattern for all subsequent Sumerian temples. \"All rules laid down at Eridu were faithfully observed\".\n\nEnki was the keeper of the divine powers called \"Me\", the gifts of civilization. He is often shown with the horned crown of divinity .\n\nOn the Adda Seal, Enki is depicted with two streams of water flowing into each of his shoulders: one the Tigris, the other the Euphrates. Alongside him are two trees, symbolizing the male and female aspects of nature. He is shown wearing a flounced skirt and a cone-shaped hat. An eagle descends from above to land upon his outstretched right arm. This portrayal reflects Enki's role as the god of water, life, and replenishment.\n\nConsidered the master shaper of the world, god of wisdom and of all magic, Enki was characterized as the lord of the Abzu (Apsu in Akkadian), the freshwater sea or groundwater located within the earth. In the later Babylonian epic \"Enûma Eliš\", Abzu, the \"begetter of the gods\", is inert and sleepy but finds his peace disturbed by the younger gods, so sets out to destroy them. His grandson Enki, chosen to represent the younger gods, puts a spell on Abzu \"casting him into a deep sleep\", thereby confining him deep underground. Enki subsequently sets up his home \"\"in the depths of the Abzu\".\" Enki thus takes on all of the functions of the Abzu, including his fertilising powers as lord of the waters and lord of semen.\n\nEarly royal inscriptions from the third millennium BCE mention \"the reeds of Enki\". Reeds were an important local building material, used for baskets and containers, and collected outside the city walls, where the dead or sick were often carried. This links Enki to the \"Kur\" or underworld of Sumerian mythology. In another even older tradition, Nammu, the goddess of the primeval creative matter and the mother-goddess portrayed as having \"given birth to the great gods,\" was the mother of Enki, and as the watery creative force, was said to preexist Ea-Enki. Benito states \"With Enki it is an interesting change of gender symbolism, the fertilising agent is also water, Sumerian \"a\" or \"Ab\" which also means \"semen\". In one evocative passage in a Sumerian hymn, Enki stands at the empty riverbeds and fills them with his 'water'\".\n\nThe cosmogenic myth common in Sumer was that of the hieros gamos, a sacred marriage where divine principles in the form of dualistic opposites came together as male and female to give birth to the cosmos. In the epic \"Enki and Ninhursag\", Enki, as lord of \"Ab\" or fresh water (also the Sumerian word for semen), is living with his wife in the paradise of Dilmun where\n\nDespite being a place where \"the raven uttered no cries\" and \"the lion killed not, the wolf snatched not the lamb, unknown was the kid-killing dog, unknown was the grain devouring boar\", Dilmun had no water and Enki heard the cries of its Goddess, Ninsikil, and orders the sun-God Utu to bring fresh water from the Earth for Dilmun. As a result,\n\nDilmun was identified with Bahrain, whose name in Arabic means \"two seas\", where the fresh waters of the Arabian aquifer mingle with the salt waters of the Persian Gulf. This mingling of waters was known in Sumerian as Nammu, and was identified as the mother of Enki.\n\nThe subsequent tale, with similarities to the Biblical story of the forbidden fruit, repeats the story of how fresh water brings life to a barren land. Enki, the Water-Lord then \"caused to flow the 'water of the heart\" and having fertilised his consort Ninhursag, also known as Ki or Earth, after \"Nine days being her nine months, the months of 'womanhood'... like good butter, Nintu, the mother of the land, ...like good butter, gave birth to Ninsar, (Lady Greenery)\". When Ninhursag left him, as Water-Lord he came upon Ninsar (Lady Greenery). Not knowing her to be his daughter, and because she reminds him of his absent consort, Enki then seduces and has intercourse with her. Ninsar then gave birth to Ninkurra (Lady Fruitfulness or Lady Pasture), and leaves Enki alone again. A second time, Enki, in his loneliness finds and seduces Ninkurra, and from the union Ninkurra gave birth to Uttu (weaver or spider, the weaver of the web of life).\n\nA third time Enki succumbs to temptation, and attempts seduction of Uttu. Upset about Enki's reputation, Uttu consults Ninhursag, who, upset at the promiscuous wayward nature of her spouse, advises Uttu to avoid the riverbanks, the places likely to be affected by flooding, the home of Enki. In another version of this myth Ninhursag takes Enki's semen from Uttu's womb and plants it in the earth where eight plants rapidly germinate. With his two-faced servant and steward Isimud, \"\"Enki, in the swampland, in the swampland lies stretched out, 'What is this (plant), what is this (plant). His messenger Isimud, answers him; 'My king, this is the tree-plant', he says to him. He cuts it off for him and he (Enki) eats it\". And so, despite warnings, Enki consumes the other seven fruit. Consuming his own semen, he falls pregnant (ill with swellings) in his jaw, his teeth, his mouth, his hip, his throat, his limbs, his side and his rib. The gods are at a loss to know what to do, chagrinned they \"sit in the dust\". As Enki lacks a womb with which to give birth, he seems to be dying with swellings. The fox then asks Enlil King of the Gods, \"If I bring Ninhursag before thee, what shall be my reward?\" Ninhursag's sacred fox then fetches the goddess.\n\nNinhursag relents and takes Enki's Ab (water, or semen) into her body, and gives birth to gods of healing of each part of the body. Abu for the Jaw, Nintul for the Hip, Ninsutu for the tooth, Ninkasi for the mouth, Dazimua for the side, Enshagag for the Limbs. The last one, Ninti (Lady Rib), is also a pun on Lady Life, a title of Ninhursag herself. The story thus symbolically reflects the way in which life is brought forth through the addition of water to the land, and once it grows, water is required to bring plants to fruit. It also counsels balance and responsibility, nothing to excess.\n\nNinti, the title of Ninhursag, also means \"the mother of all living\", and was a title given to the later Hurrian goddess Kheba. This is also the title given in the Bible to Eve, the Hebrew and Aramaic Ḥawwah (חוה), who was made from the rib of Adam, in a strange reflection of the Sumerian myth, in which Adam — not Enki — walks in the Garden of Paradise.\n\nAfter six generations of gods, in the Babylonian \"Enûma Eliš\", in the seventh generation, (Akkadian \"shapattu\" or sabath), the younger Igigi gods, the sons and daughters of Enlil and Ninlil, go on strike and refuse their duties of keeping the creation working. Abzu God of fresh water, co-creator of the cosmos, threatens to destroy the world with his waters, and the Gods gather in terror. Enki promises to help and puts Abzu to sleep, confining him in irrigation canals and places him in the Kur, beneath his city of Eridu. But the universe is still threatened, as Tiamat, angry at the imprisonment of Abzu and at the prompting of her son and vizier Kingu, decides to take back the creation herself. The gods gather again in terror and turn to Enki for help, but Enki who harnessed Abzu, Tiamat's consort, for irrigation refuses to get involved. The gods then seek help elsewhere, and the patriarchal Enlil, their father, God of Nippur, promises to solve the problem if they make him King of the Gods. In the Babylonian tale, Enlil's role is taken by Marduk, Enki's son, and in the Assyrian version it is Asshur. After dispatching Tiamat with the \"arrows of his winds\" down her throat and constructing the heavens with the arch of her ribs, Enlil places her tail in the sky as the Milky Way, and her crying eyes become the source of the Tigris and Euphrates. But there is still the problem of \"who will keep the cosmos working\". Enki, who might have otherwise come to their aid, is lying in a deep sleep and fails to hear their cries. His mother Nammu (creatrix also of Abzu and Tiamat) \"brings the tears of the gods\" before Enki and says\n\nEnki then advises that they create a servant of the gods, humankind, out of clay and blood. Against Enki's wish the Gods decide to slay Kingu, and Enki finally consents to use Kingu's blood to make the first human, with whom Enki always later has a close relationship, the first of the seven sages, seven wise men or \"Abgallu\" (Ab = water, Gal = great, Lu = Man), also known as Adapa. Enki assembles a team of divinities to help him, creating a host of \"good and princely fashioners\". He tells his mother\n\nAdapa, the first man fashioned, later goes and acts as the advisor to the King of Eridu, when in the Sumerian Kinglist, the \"Me\" of \"kingship descends on Eridu\".\n\nSamuel Noah Kramer, believes that behind this myth of Enki's confinement of Abzu lies an older one of the struggle between Enki and the Dragon Kur (the underworld)\n\nThe Atrahasis-Epos has it that Enlil requested from Nammu the creation of humans. And Nammu told him that with the help of Enki (her son) she can create humans in the image of gods.\n\nIn the Sumerian epic entitled \"Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta\", in a speech of Enmerkar, an incantation is pronounced that has a mythical introduction. Kramer's translation is as follows:\n\nIn the Sumerian version of the flood myth, the causes of the flood and the reasons for the hero's survival are unknown due to the fact that the beginning of the tablet describing the story has been destroyed. Nonetheless, Samuel Noah Kramer has stated that it can probably be reasonably inferred that the hero Ziusudra survives due to Enki's aid because that is what happens in the later Akkadian and Babylonian versions of the story.\n\nIn the later Legend of Atrahasis, Enlil, the king of the gods, sets out to eliminate humanity, whose noise is disturbing his rest. He successively sends drought, famine and plague to eliminate humanity, but Enki thwarts his half-brother's plans by teaching Atrahasis how to counter these threats. Each time, Atrahasis asks the population to abandon worship of all gods, except the one responsible for the calamity, and this seems to shame them into relenting. Humans, however, proliferate a fourth time. Enraged, Enlil convenes a Council of Deities and gets them to promise not to tell humankind that he plans their total annihilation. Enki does not tell Atrahasis directly, but speaks to him in secret via a reed wall. He instructs Atrahasis to build a boat in order to rescue his family and other living creatures from the coming deluge. After the seven-day Deluge, the flood hero frees a swallow, a raven and a dove in an effort to find if the flood waters have receded. Upon landing, a sacrifice is made to the gods. Enlil is angry his will has been thwarted yet again, and Enki is named as the culprit. Enki explains that Enlil is unfair to punish the guiltless, and the gods institute measures to ensure that humanity does not become too populous in the future. This is one of the oldest of the surviving Middle Eastern Deluge myths.\n\nThe myth \"Enki and Inanna\" tells the story of how the young goddess of the É-anna temple of Uruk feasts with her father Enki. The two deities participate in a drinking competition; then, Enki, thoroughly inebriated, gives Inanna all of the \"Mes\". The next morning, when Enki awakes with a hangover, he asks his servant Isimud for the \"Mes\", only to be informed that he has given them to Inanna. Upset, he sends \"Galla\" to recover them. Inanna sails away in the boat of heaven and arrives safely back at the quay of Uruk. Eventually, Enki admits his defeat and accepts a peace treaty with Uruk.\n\nPolitically, this myth would seem to indicate events of an early period when political authority passed from Enki's city of Eridu to Inanna's city of Uruk.\n\nIn the myth of \"Inanna's descent\", Inanna, in order to console her grieving sister Ereshkigal, who is mourning the death of her husband Gugalana (\"gu\", bull, \"gal\", big, \"ana\", sky/heaven), slain by Gilgamesh and Enkidu, sets out to visit her sister. Inanna tells her servant Ninshubur (\"Lady Evening\", a reference to Inanna's role as the evening star) to get help from Anu, Enlil or Enki if she does not return in three days. After Inanna has not come back, Ninshubur approaches Anu, only to be told that he knows the goddess' strength and her ability to take care of herself. While Enlil tells Ninshubur he is busy running the cosmos, Enki immediately expresses concern and dispatches his Galla (Galaturra or Kurgarra, sexless beings created from the dirt from beneath the god's finger-nails) to recover the young goddess.\nThese beings may be the origin of the Greco-Roman \"Galli\", androgynous beings of the third sex, similar to the American Indian berdache, who played an important part in early religious ritual.\n\nIn the story \"Inanna and Shukaletuda\", Shukaletuda, the gardener, set by Enki to care for the date palm he had created, finds Inanna sleeping under the palm tree and rapes the goddess in her sleep. Awaking, she discovers that she has been violated and seeks to punish the miscreant. Shukaletuda seeks protection from Enki, whom Bottero believes to be his father. In classic Enkian fashion, the father advises Shukaletuda to hide in the city where Inanna will not be able to find him. Enki, as the protector of whoever comes to seek his help, and as the empowerer of Inanna, here challenges the young impetuous goddess to control her anger so as to be better able to function as a great judge.\n\nEventually, after cooling her anger, she too seeks the help of Enki, as spokesperson of the \"assembly of the gods\", the Igigi and the Anunnaki. After she presents her case, Enki sees that justice needs to be done and promises help, delivering knowledge of where the miscreant is hiding.\n\nIn the earliest surviving version of the myth of the slaying of the Kur, Enki is the hero responsible for the Kur being slain. Unfortunately, this myth is highly fragmentary and what little that is known about it comes solely from the prologue at the beginning of the epic poem, \"Gilgamesh, Enkidu, and the Nether World.\" In later versions of this myth, the hero is either Ninurta or Inanna.\n\nBased on what little has survived of the account, it seems that the legend begins with the Kur abducting the goddess, Ereshkigal, and dragging her down to the Netherworld. Enki sets out in a boat to attack the Kur and avenge the abduction of Ereshkigal. The Kur is described as defending itself using a storm of hailstones of all sizes and by attacking Enki using the waters beneath the boat. The account never actually tells who the winner of the fight is, but it can probably be assumed that Enki is the ultimate victor.\n\nEnki and later Ea were apparently depicted, sometimes, as a man covered with the skin of a fish, and this representation, as likewise the name of his temple E-apsu, \"house of the watery deep\", points decidedly to his original character as a god of the waters (see Oannes). Around the excavation of the 18 shrines found on the spot, thousands of carp bones were found, consumed possibly in feasts to the god. Of his cult at Eridu, which goes back to the oldest period of Mesopotamian history, nothing definite is known except that his temple was also associated with Ninhursag's temple which was called \"Esaggila\", \"the lofty head house\" (\"E\", house, \"sag\", head, \"ila\", high; or Akkadian goddess = Ila), a name shared with Marduk's temple in Babylon, pointing to a staged tower or ziggurat (as with the temple of Enlil at Nippur, which was known as \"E-kur\" (\"kur\", hill)), and that incantations, involving ceremonial rites in which water as a sacred element played a prominent part, formed a feature of his worship. This seems also implicated in the epic of the hieros gamos or sacred marriage of Enki and Ninhursag (above), which seems an etiological myth of the fertilisation of the dry ground by the coming of irrigation water (from Sumerian \"a\", \"ab\", water or semen). The early inscriptions of Urukagina in fact go so far as to suggest that the divine pair, Enki and Ninki, were the progenitors of seven pairs of gods, including Enki as god of Eridu, Enlil of Nippur, and Su'en (or Sin) of Ur, and were themselves the children of An (sky, heaven) and Ki (earth). The pool of the Abzu at the front of his temple was adopted also at the temple to Nanna (Akkadian Sin) the Moon, at Ur, and spread from there throughout the Middle East. It is believed to remain today as the sacred pool at Mosques, or as the holy water font in Catholic or Eastern Orthodox churches.\n\nWhether Eridu at one time also played an important political role in Sumerian affairs is not certain, though not improbable. At all events the prominence of \"Ea\" led, as in the case of Nippur, to the survival of Eridu as a sacred city, long after it had ceased to have any significance as a political center. Myths in which Ea figures prominently have been found in Assurbanipal's library, and in the Hattusas archive in Hittite Anatolia. As Ea, Enki had a wide influence outside of Sumer, being equated with El (at Ugarit) and possibly Yah (at Ebla) in the Canaanite 'ilhm pantheon, he is also found in Hurrian and Hittite mythology, as a god of contracts, and is particularly favourable to humankind. It has been suggested that etymologiically Ea was comes from the term \"*hyy\" (life), referring to Enki's waters as life giving. Enki/Ea is essentially a god of civilization, wisdom, and culture. He was also the creator and protector of man, and of the world in general. Traces of this version of Ea appear in the Marduk epic celebrating the achievements of this god and the close connection between the Ea cult at Eridu and that of Marduk. The correlation between the two rises from two other important connections: (1) that the name of Marduk's sanctuary at Babylon bears the same name, \"Esaggila\", as that of a temple in Eridu, and (2) that Marduk is generally termed the son of Ea, who derives his powers from the voluntary abdication of the father in favour of his son. Accordingly, the incantations originally composed for the Ea cult were re-edited by the priests of Babylon and adapted to the worship of Marduk, and, similarly, the hymns to Marduk betray traces of the transfer to Marduk of attributes which originally belonged to Ea.\n\nIt is, however, as the third figure in the triad (the two other members of which were Anu and Enlil) that Ea acquires his permanent place in the pantheon. To him was assigned the control of the watery element, and in this capacity he becomes the \"shar apsi\"; i.e. king of the Apsu or \"the abyss\". The Apsu was figured as the abyss of water beneath the earth, and since the gathering place of the dead, known as Aralu, was situated near the confines of the Apsu, he was also designated as En-Ki; i.e. \"lord of that which is below\", in contrast to Anu, who was the lord of the \"above\" or the heavens. The cult of Ea extended throughout Babylonia and Assyria. We find temples and shrines erected in his honour, e.g. at Nippur, Girsu, Ur, Babylon, Sippar, and Nineveh, and the numerous epithets given to him, as well as the various forms under which the god appears, alike bear witness to the popularity which he enjoyed from the earliest to the latest period of Babylonian-Assyrian history. The consort of Ea, known as Ninhursag, Ki, Uriash Damkina, \"lady of that which is below\", or Damgalnunna, \"big lady of the waters\", originally was fully equal with Ea, but in more patriarchal Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian times plays a part merely in association with her lord. Generally, however, Enki seems to be a reflection of pre-patriarchal times, in which relations between the sexes were characterised by a situation of greater gender equality. In his character, he prefers persuasion to conflict, which he seeks to avoid if possible.\n\nIn 1964, a team of Italian archaeologists under the direction of Paolo Matthiae of the University of Rome La Sapienza performed a series of excavations of material from the third-millennium BCE city of Ebla. Much of the written material found in these digs was later translated by Giovanni Pettinato.\n\nAmong other conclusions, he found a tendency among the inhabitants of Ebla, after the reign of Sargon of Akkad, to replace the name of El, king of the gods of the Canaanite pantheon (found in names such as Mikael and Ishmael), with \"Ia\" (Mikaia, Ishmaia).\n\nJean Bottero (1952) and others suggested that Ia in this case is a West Semitic (Canaanite) way of saying Ea, Enki's Akkadian name, associating the Canaanite theonym Yahu, and ultimately Hebrew YHWH. Some scholars remain skeptical of the theory while explaining how it might have been misinterpreted.\n\n\"Ia\" has also been compared by William Hallo with the Ugaritic Yamm (sea), (also called Judge Nahar, or Judge River) whose earlier name in at least one ancient source was Yaw, or Ya'a.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10148780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10148780", "title": "Equilibrium level", "text": "Equilibrium level\n\nIn meteorology, the equilibrium level (EL), or level of neutral buoyancy (LNB), or limit of convection (LOC), is the height at which a rising parcel of air is at the same temperature as its environment. \n\nThis means that unstable air is now stable when it reaches the equilibrium level and convection stops. This level is often near the tropopause and can be indicated as near where the anvil of a thunderstorm because it is where the thunderstorm updraft is finally cut off, except in the case of overshooting tops where it continues rising to the maximum parcel level (MPL) due to momentum. More precisely, the cumulonimbus will stop rising around a few kilometres prior to reaching the level of neutral buoyancy and on average anvil glaciation occurs at a higher altitude over land than over sea (despite little difference in LNB from land to sea).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52972898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52972898", "title": "Extractivism", "text": "Extractivism\n\nExtractivism is the process of extracting natural resources from the Earth to sell on the world market. It exists in an economy that depends primarily on the extraction or removal of natural resources that are considered valuable for exportation worldwide. Some examples of resources that are obtained through extraction include gold, diamonds, lumber and oil. This economic model has become popular in many Latin American countries but is becoming increasingly prominent in other regions as well.\n\nMany factors are involved in the process of extractivism. These include but are not limited to community members, transnational corporations (TNCs) and the government. Trends have demonstrated that countries do not often extract their own resources; extraction is often led from abroad. These interactions have contributed to extractivism being rooted in the hegemonic order of global capitalism. Extractivism is controversial because it exists at the intersection where economic growth and environmental protection meet. This intersection is known as the green economy. Extractivism has evolved in the wake of neo-liberal economic transitions to become a potential avenue for development to occur. This development occurs through, stabilizing growth rates, increasing direct foreign investment and reducing poverty.\n\nHowever, while these economic benefits are substantial, extractivism as a development model is often critiqued for failing to deliver the improved living conditions it promises and failing to work collaboratively with already existing programs, therefore inflicting environmental, social and political consequences. These environmental concerns include; climate change, soil depletion, deforestation, loss of food sovereignty, declining biodiversity and contamination of freshwater. Social and political implications include violation of human rights, unsafe labour conditions, unequal wealth distribution and conflict. As a result of this, extractivism remains a prominent debate in policy related discourse because while it delivers high economic gains, it also raises social and environmental concerns. Case studies in Latin America demonstrate these policy gaps.\n\nExtractivism refers to the process of removing large quantities of raw or natural materials, particularly for export. Most extracted resources are exported abroad because there is a lack of demand for these raw materials in their country of origin.\n\nExtractivism, on a large scale, has been occurring for over 500 years. During the extended era while the West was colonizing Africa, Asia and the America’s, the extraction industry took off. At this time, colonizers exploited resources from their colonies to meet the demands of their home cities. The colonies typically specialized in the production and extraction of the raw materials while the colonizers manufactured the goods – the colonies were exporters and the colonizers were importers. Today, the industry remains largely unchanged in the shadows of decolonization. However, since then, extractivism has evolved in the wake of neo-liberal economic transitions to become a potential avenue for development to occur. This pattern has been termed “neo-extractivism”.\n\nNeo-extractivism refers to a set of growth-oriented development paths. This transition to neo-liberal economies is rooted in a nation’s subordination to an emphasis on free trade. In contrast to older forms of extractivism, neo-extractivism regulates the allotment of resources and their revenue, pushes state-ownership of companies and raw materials, revises contracts, and raises export duties and taxes. Neo-extractivism has transformed the industry into a specific growth-oriented development path. This path involves three components. First, extracting the raw natural materials. Second, exporting these extracted raw materials. Third, using the revenue from these exports to improve living conditions for those in the countries where extraction occurs. Neo-extractivism has similarities to older forms of extractivism and exists in the realm of neo-colonialism.\n\nTransnational corporations (TNCs) are a primary actor in neo-extractivism. Originally, as TNCs began to explore raw material extraction in developing countries they were applauded for taking a risk to extract high-demand resources. TNCs were able to navigate their way into a position where they maintained large amounts of control over various extraction-based industries. This success is credited to the oftentimes weak governance structure of the resource dependent economies where extraction is taking place. Through complex arrangements and agreements, resources have slowly become denationalized. As a result of this, the government has taken a “hands-off” approach, awarding most of the control over resource enclaves and the social responsibility that accompanies them to TNCs. However, the government still plays an important role in leading development by determining which TNCs they allow to extract their resources and how thorough they are when it comes to enforcing certain standards of social responsibility.\nSome resources that are obtained through extraction include but are not limited to gold, diamonds, oil, lumber and food. This occurs through techniques such as mining, drilling and deforestation. Resources are typically extracted from developing countries as a raw material. This means that it has not been processes or has been processed only slightly. These materials then travel elsewhere to be turned into goods that are for sale on the world market. An example of this would be gold that is mined as a raw mineral and later in the supply chain manufactured into jewellery.\n\nNeo-extractivism is seen as an opportunity for successful development in many areas of the developing world. Demand for extracted resources on the global market has allowed this industry to expand. Since the year 2000, there has been a substantial rise in global demand and value for raw materials – this has contributed to steadily high prices. Neo-extractivism has therefore been seen as a tool for economically advancing developing countries that are rich in natural resources by participating in this market.\n\nIt is argued that the emergence of this industry in the neo-liberal context has allowed extractivism to contribute to stabilizing growth rates, increasing direct foreign investment, diversifying local economies, expanding the middle class and reducing poverty. This is done by using surplus revenue to invest in development projects such as expanding social programs and infrastructure. Overall, extraction based economies are seen as long-term development projects that guarantee a robust economic foundation. It has created a new hegemonic order that closely intertwines with the dominant capitalist system of the world. The green economy has emerged as an economic model in response to the arising tensions between the economy and the environment. Extractivism is one of the many issues that exist at this intersection between the economy and the environment.\n\nOne of the main consequences of extractivism is the toll that it takes on the natural environment. Due to the scale extraction takes place on; several renewable resources are becoming non-renewable. This means that the environment is incapable of renewing its resources as quickly as the rate they are extracted at. It is often falsely assumed that technological advancements will enable resources to renew more effectively and as a result make raw material extraction more sustainable. The environment often must compensate for overproduction driven by the need to maximize profits. Global climate change, soil depletion, loss of biodiversity and contamination of fresh water are some of the environmental issues that extractivism contributes to. As well, extraction produces large amounts of waste such as toxic chemicals and heavy metals that are difficult to dispose of properly. To what degree humans have a right to take from the environment for developmental purposes is a topic that continues to be debated.\n\nIn addition to the environmental consequences of extractivism, social impacts arise as well. Local communities are often opposed to extractivism occurring. This is because it often uproots the communities or cause environmental impacts that will affect their quality of life. Indigenous communities tend to be particularly susceptible to the social impacts of extractivism. Indigenous peoples rely on their environment to sustain their lifestyles as well as connect with the land in spiritual ways. Extractivist policies and practices heavily destroy the land as explained above. This changes game populations, migration patterns for animals, pollutes rivers and much more. Doing so, does not allow Indigenous populations to practice their culture and ways of life because the environment they depend on to hunt, fish etc. is drastically changed. In addition, this destruction hinders the practice of Indigenous culture and creation of knowledge making it more difficult for Indigenous individuals to pass down their traditions to future generations.\n\nWhile employment opportunities are brought to local communities as a pillar of neo-extractivism projects, the conditions are often unsafe for workers. TNCs can take advantage of more lenient health and safety conditions in developing countries and pay inadequate wages in order to maximize their profits. As well, foreigners usually fill the highest paying managerial positions, leaving local community members to do the most labour intensive jobs. Frequently, the enclaves where extractivism occurs are distanced from government involvement, therefore allowing them to avoid being subjected to the enforcement of national laws to protect citizens. This can result in widespread human rights violations. It is argued that prolonged social transformation cannot thrive on export dependent extractivism alone therefore making neo-extractivism a potentially flawed development method on its own.\n\nDue to the fact that the state is a prominent actor in the extractivism process it has several political implications. It pushes the state into a position where they are one of the central actors involved in development when recent decades have seen a shift to civil society organizations. As well, the relationship between the State providing the natural resources and the TNCs extracting them can be politically complex sometimes leading to corruption. Likewise, as a result of government involvement, this process as a development project becomes politicized. The increasing demand for raw materials also increases the likelihood of conflict breaking out over natural resources.\n\nExtractivism near or on Indigenous land without the permission of Indigenous peoples begins to threaten the land based self-determination of Indigenous groups. Conflicts between Indigenous peoples, corporations and governments are occurring around the world. Because many of the extractivist practices take place where Indigenous communities are located, the conflicts are making these landscapes politicized and contested. The conflicts are driven because Indigenous lives are put in jeopardy when they are dispossessed, when they lose their livelihoods, when their water and land is polluted and the environment is commodified.\n\nThe instance of the mega-mining project in Cajamarca, Peru provides an illustrative example of the extractive dynamic of raw material in Latin America. In 2011, a TNC began a project called Yanacocha, installing a mega-mining project in Cajamarca. The government favoured this project and saw it as an opportunity for development therefore giving large amounts of control to the TNCs extractive procedures. Local community members (known as peasant populations) expressed their concern for the project given the threat of contamination to their main source of water. Leaders of Yanacocha promised the creation of 7,000 jobs and development projects that would work collaboratively with and be beneficial for the community. The TNC said they would fail to launch the project if they could not do so on socially and economically responsible terms. However, this guarantee failed to be actualized and violent conflict broke out as a result. The regional level and national level government had opposing opinions on the development project and tension was formed between the two parties as protests broke out injuring more than 20 people and killing 5. Unlike the national government, the regional government sided with the community protestors and rejected the Cajamarca mining project. In the end, the national government overrode the concerns of the community and pushed forward with the Yanacocha mega-mining project, leaving the task of social responsibility to the corporations.\n\nMany Amazonian communities in Ecuador are opposed to the national governments endorsement of oil extraction in Yasuni National Park. The Spanish corporation Repsol S.A. and American corporation Chevron-Texaco have both attempted to make investments to extract oil from the reserves in Yasuni. Various civil society organizations fought against the implementation of this project because of the parks valuable biodiversity and their concerns were answered. The Ecuadorian state worked collaboratively with these interest groups and launched a project where members of the international community could donate to a fund that was put in place to compensate for the lost income that an oil reserve would have generated. This totalled US$3.5 billion, equal to 50% of the revenue that would have been produced by the oil extraction project. Through this initiative, the wishes of the activists and community members were validated without compensating economic growth. Since then, the national government has taken these concerns even further, redesigning the constitution to give the state more autonomy over their natural and raw materials. In addition, an overall mandate of living well has been adopted for guiding neo-extractivism projects in the future.\n\nThese two case studies represent examples of both successful and impaired approaches to neo-extractivism in Latin America. They can be used to illustrate the inter-disciplinary complexities of extractivism by illustrating the economic, environmental, social and political layers to the topic. Increasingly, policy tools such as corporate social responsibility mechanisms and increased government involvement are being used to mitigate the negative implications of neo-extractivism and make it a more effective development model.\n\nExtractivism policies and procedures are present in Canada as well. Canada has many natural resources because of its large land mass and biodiversity. The forest sector in Canada contributed to 19.8 billion or 1.25 per cent of Canada’s GDP in 2013. The Boreal forest covers 28 per cent of Canada’s land and within that 70 per cent of Indigenous communities live in these areas. Logging efforts in the Boreal forest are encouraged to be economically efficient by clearcutting. Clearcutting means to remove all trees from an area at one time. This has led to loss of biodiversity, habitat fragmentation and reduction, soil erosion and carbon release contributing to climate change.\n\nAsubpeeschoseewagong First Nation, also known as Grassy Narrows First Nation is located in northwestern Ontario near the town of Kenora. In 1873, the Anishinaabe people participated and negotiated in Treaty 3 with the Canadian government. The terms of this treaty are extremely contested by the Anishinaabe people and the Canadian government as both groups disagree on its interpretation and assumptions. The Canadian government at the time, wanted to expand farther into the West for more agricultural settlements. This treaty was seen as a way to secure and create a route through northwestern Ontario and further Canadian nation building. Anishinaabe leaders saw the treaty as a peace-and-friendship agreement. The Anishinaabe people wanted to share the land to ensure its survival but not surrender it according to oral histories and the unofficial versions of Treaty 3. The Canadian government contests this stating the Anishinaabe right to land was surrendered once the treaty was signed.\n\nIn December 2002, people of Grassy Narrows grew tired of seeing their environment being destroyed and Treaty 3 being violated in their eyes. They began Canada’s longest road blockade as a way to protest the clearcutting that was proposed near their community. In the past, the community has been affected by the flooding of ancestral burial grounds because of hydroelectric dams. Most notably, the community were affected by mercury contaminated water from a pulp and paper mill. Since the 1990s logging rates near the community had accelerated which caused community members to act. Working with non-Indigenous environmentalists and human rights advocates, they began media campaigns to draw attention to their protest. The site of resistance was on the Ontario Provincial Highway 671 near Slant Lake.\n\nHowever, the blockade went against what the Grassy Narrow’s chief and council wanted. They wanted to stop the logging efforts by working within the federal system and use the Indian act. Anti-clearcutting activists and community members continued to support the road blockade for years. Many think it is a clear violation of treaty rights and the sovereignty of the Anishinaabe nation. In 2008, the Ontario government began negotiating a resolution to the conflict, which ended the license for logging companies. In 2014, the provincial government stated they would monitor logging companies to make sure they adhered to the new proposed rules. However, many in the community remain skeptical.\n\n"}
{"id": "2432250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2432250", "title": "Florida state forests", "text": "Florida state forests\n\nFlorida's state forests are state forests overseen by the Florida Forest Service. There are 35 state forests in Florida covering more than 1,058,000 acres. The first state forest in Florida was Pine Log State Forest, established on 6,960 acres in 1936. Cary State Forest was established in 1937. Blackwater River State Forest and Withlacoochee State Forest were added in the late 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nFlorida began large land purchase and preservation efforts in the late 1970s and management focus shifted from timber and wildlife focuses to a \"multiple land use management ethic\" including \"conservation of natural and cultural resources, wildlife management, protection of water resources, and outdoor recreation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42877090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42877090", "title": "Gaststätte Röhrl", "text": "Gaststätte Röhrl\n\nThe Gaststätte Röhrl (Röhrl restaurant) is a restaurant with beer garden in Eilsbrunn in the district of Regensburg (Germany). Since 1658 it is continuously operated and owned by the Röhrl family.\n\nIn November 2010 the Guinness Book of Records introduced the restaurant as the oldest continuously operated restaurant in the world, conducting business for more than three and half centuries.\n\nThe restaurant is located on the western edge of Eilsbrunn, opposite the parish church of St. Wolfgang.\n\nThe oldest part of the restaurant, the main building is a two-storey building with garett hip roof and the taproom behind segmental arch windows on the ground floor. This component was built before 1800, maybe early as 1665 as the inscription \"MDCLXV\" suggests. Approximately 50 guests can be accommodated; the decor is simple and largely obtained in the first half of the 20th century according to their time of origin. Above the entrance stands a large dormer with a pulley from the roof.\n\nA two-storey gabled roof construction from 1839 connects to the main building. In the early 20th century another saddleback roof building for a festival hall with space for 250 guests was erected; the Art Nouveau door at the entrance to the old building was originally part of this component. The beer garden hosts further 400 guests.\n\nThe property is under conservation.\n\nThe restaurant is operated in the eleventh generation by members of the family Röhrl.\n\nIn 1658 the family got the restaurant by marriage of Andreas Röhrl (app. 1636–1706) with Susanna Hofmeister, the innkeeper Georg Hofmeister's daughter. Röhrl was henceforth brewer and landlord of Eilsbrunn. Married twice he left the business to his son Joachim (1676-1737). The year \"MDCLXV\" on the entrance facade suggests that a conversion or new construction of the property was done in 1665. After the death of the fifth Röhrl male in a row, his widow took over the business. In 1839 she reconstructed the building and set up an extension. She later bequeathed the property to her youngest son. A picture in the guest room shows her grandson and successor to her son Johann Nepomuk Röhrl. The opening of the nearby railroad made the area a popular tourist destination for visitors even from other parts of Germany, so that a large festival hall and guest rooms (now discontinued) were erected.\n\nAfter the death of another Johann Nepomuk Röhrl, taking over the inn after World War II, the daughter Antonie Kolbe took over the Gaststätte Röhrl. In 1971 the brewery was shut down. Since 2006 the inn is directed by her nephew Muk Röhrl, a skilled cook and businessman.\n\nToday the beer sold in the restaurant is mainly produced by the Röhrl brewery in Straubing. This brewery was founded by Josef Röhrl, the first Johann Nepomuk's brother, in 1881.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12747796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12747796", "title": "Glossary of plant morphology", "text": "Glossary of plant morphology\n\nThis page provides a glossary of plant morphology. Botanists and other biologists who study plant morphology use a number of different terms to classify and identify plant organs and parts that can be observed using no more than a handheld magnifying lens. This page provides help in understanding the numerous other pages describing plants by their various taxa. The accompanying page, Plant morphology, provides an overview of the science of the external form of plants. There is also an alphabetical list, Glossary of botanical terms. In contrast, this page deals with botanical terms in a systematic manner, with some illustrations, and organized by Plant anatomy and function in Plant physiology.\n\nThis glossary primarily includes terms that deal with vascular plants (ferns, gymnosperms and angiosperms), particularly flowering plants (angiosperms). Non-vascular plants (bryophytes), with their different evolutionary background, tend to have separate terminology. Although plant morphology (the external form) is integrated with plant anatomy (the internal form), the former became the basis of the taxonomic description of plants that exists today, due to the few tools required to observe.\n\nMany of these terms date back to the earliest herbalists and botanists, including Theophrastus. Thus, they usually have Greek or Latin roots. These terms have been modified and added to over the years, and different authorities may not always use them the same way. \n\nThis page has two parts: The first deals with general plant terms, and the second with specific plant structures or parts.\n\n\nPlant habit refers to the overall shape of a plant, and it describes a number of components such as stem length and development, branching pattern, and texture. While many plants fit neatly into some main categories, such as grasses, vines, shrubs, or trees, others can be more difficult to categorise. The habit of a plant provides important information about its ecology: that is, how it has adapted to its environment. Each habit indicates a different adaptive strategy. Habit is also associated with the development of the plant. As such, it may change as the plant grows and is more properly called its growth habit. In addition to shape, habit indicates plant structure; for instance, whether the plant is herbaceous or woody.\n\nEach plant commences its growth as a herbaceous plant. Plants that remain herbaceous are shorter and seasonal, dying back at the end of their growth season. Woody plants (such as trees, shrubs and woody vines (lianas) will gradually acquire woody (lignaceous) tissues, which provide strength and protection for the vascular system, and they tend to be tall and relatively long lived. The formation of woody tissue is an example of secondary growth, a change in existing tissues, in contrast to primary growth that creates new tissues, such as the elongating tip of a plant shoot. The process of wood formation (lignification) is commonest in the Spermatophytes (seed bearing plants) and has evolved independently a number of times. The roots may also lignify, aiding in the role of supporting and anchoring tall plants, and may be part of a descriptor of the plant's habit.\n\nPlant habit can also refer to whether the plant possesses any specialised systems for the storage of carbohydrates or water, allowing the plant to renew its growth after an unfavourable period. Where the amount of water stored is relatively high, the plant is referred to as a succulent. Such specialised plant parts may arise from the stems or roots. Examples include plants growing in unfavourable climates, very dry climates where storage is intermittent depending on climatic conditions, and those adapted to surviving fires and regrowing from the soil afterwards.\n\nSome types of plant habit include:\n\nTerms used in describing plant habit, include:\n\n\nDuration of individual plant lives are described using these terms:\n\nPlant structures or organs fulfil specific functions, and those functions determine the structures that perform them. Among terrestrial (land) plants, the vascular and non-vascular plants (Bryophytes) evolved independently in terms of their adaptation to terrestrial life and are treated separately here (see Bryophytes).\n\nCommon structural elements are present in the embryonic part of the life cycle, which is the diploid multicellular phase. The embryo develops into the sporophyte, which at maturity produces haploid spores, which germinate to produce the gametophyte, the haploid multicellular phase. The haploid gametophyte then produces gametes, which may fuse to form a diploid zygote, and finally an embryo. This phenomenon of alternating diploid and haploid multicellular phases is common to the embryophytes (land plants) and is referred to as the alternation of generations. A major difference between vascular and non-vascular plants is that in the latter the haploid gametophyte is the more visible and longer-lived stage. In vascular plants, the diploid sporophyte has evolved as the dominant and visible phase of the life cycle. In seed plants and some other groups of vascular plants the gametophyte phases are strongly reduced in size and contained within the pollen and ovules. The female gametophyte is entirely contained within the sporophyte's tissues, while the male gametophyte in its pollen grain is released and transferred by wind or animal vectors to fertilize the ovules.\n\nAmongst the vascular plants, the structures and functions of the Pteridophyta (ferns), which reproduce seedlessly, are also sufficiently different to justify separate treatment, as here (see Pteridophytes). The remainder of the vascular plant sections address the higher plants (Spermatophytes or Seed Plants, i.e. Gymnosperms and Angiosperms or flowering plants). In the higher plants, the terrestrial sporophyte has evolved specialised parts. In essence, they have a lower, underground component and an upper, aerial component. The underground part develops roots that seek water and nourishment from the soil, while the upper component, or shoot, grows toward the light and develops a plant stem, leaves and specialised reproductive structures (sporangia). In angiosperms, the sporangia are located in the stamen anthers (microsporangia) and ovules (megasporangia). The specialised sporangia bearing stem is the flower. In angiosperms, if the female sporangium is fertilised, it becomes the fruit, a mechanism for dispersing the seeds produced from the embryo.\nThus, the terrestrial sporophyte has two growth centres, the stem growing upwards while the roots grow downwards. New growth occurs at the tips (apices) of both the shoot and roots, where the undifferentiated cells of the meristem divide. Branching occurs to form new apical meristems. Growth of the stem is indeterminate in pattern (not pre-determined to stop at a particular point). The functions of the stem are to raise and support the leaves and reproductive organs above the level of the soil, to facilitate absorption of light for photosynthesis, gas exchange, water exchange (transpiration), pollination, and seed dispersal. The stem also serves as a conduit, from roots to overhead structures, for water and other growth-enhancing substances. These conduits consist of specialised tissues known as vascular bundles, which give the name \"vascular plants\" to the angiosperms. The point of insertion, on the stem, of leaves or buds is a node, and the space between two successive nodes, an internode.\n\nThe leaves, which emerge from the shoot, are specialised structures that carry out photosynthesis, and gas (oxygen and carbon dioxide) and water exchange. They are sheathed by an outer layer or epidermis that is coated with a waxy waterproof protective layer, which is punctuated by specialised pores, known as stomata, which regulate gas and water exchange. The leaves also possess vascular bundles, which are generally visible as veins, whose patterns are called venation. Leaves tend to have a shorter life span than the stems or branches that bear them, and when they fall, an area at the attachment zone, called the abscission zone leaves a scar on the stem.\n\nIn the angle (adaxial) between the leaf and the stem, is the axil. Here can be found buds (axillary buds), which are miniature and often dormant branches with their own apical meristem. They are often covered by leaves.\n\nThe flower, which is one of the defining features of angiosperms, is essentially a stem whose leaf primordia become specialised, following which the apical meristem stops growing: a determinate growth pattern, in contrast to vegetative stems. The flower stem is known as a pedicel, and those flowers with such a stem are called pedicellate, while those without are called sessile. In the angiosperms, the flowers are arranged on a flower stem as an inflorescence. Just beneath (subtended) the flower there may be a modified, and usually reduced, leaf, called a bract. A secondary smaller bract is a bracteole (bractlet, prophyll, prophyllum), often on the side of the pedicel, and generally paired. A series of bracts subtending the calyx (see below) is an epicalyx. Angiosperms are dealt with in more detail here; these structures are very different in gymnosperms.\n\nIn angiosperms, the specialised leaves that play a part in reproduction are arranged around the stem in an ordered fashion, from the base to the apex of the flower. The floral parts are arranged at the end of a stem without any internodes. The receptacle (also called the floral axis, or thalamus) is generally very small. Some flower parts are solitary, while others may form a tight spiral, or whorl, around the flower stem. First, at the base, are those non-reproductive structures involved in protecting the flower when it is still a bud, the sepals, then are those parts that play a role in attracting pollinators and are typically coloured, the petals, which together with the sepals make up the perianth (perigon, perigonium). If the perianth is differentiated, the outer whorl of sepals forms the calyx, and the inner whorl of petals, the corolla. If the perianth is not differentiated into sepals and petals, they are collectively known as tepals. In some flowers, a tube or cup-like hypanthium (floral tube) is formed above or around the ovary and bears the sepals, petals, and stamens. There may also be a nectary producing nectar. Nectaries may develop on or in the perianth, receptacle, androecium (stamens), or gynoecium. In some flowers nectar may be produced on nectariferous disks. Disks may arise from the receptable and are doughnut- or disk-shaped. They may also surround the stamens (extrastaminal), be at the stamen bases (staminal), or be inside the stamina (intrastaminal).\n\nFinally, the actual reproductive parts form the innermost layers of the flower. These leaf primordia become specialised as sporophylls, leaves that form areas called sporangia, which produce spores, and cavitate internally. The sporangia on the sporophytes of pteridophytes are visible, but those of gymnosperms and angiosperms are not. In the angiosperms there are two types. Some form male organs (stamens), the male sporangia (microsporangia) producing microspores. Others form female organs (carpels), the female sporangia (megasporangia) producing a single large megaspore. These in turn produce the male gametophytes and female gametophytes\n\nThese two components are the androecium and gynoecium, respectively. The Androecium (literally, men's house) is a collective term for the male organs (stamens or microsporophylls). While sometimes leaflike (laminar), more commonly they consist of a long thread-like column, the filament, surmounted by a pollen bearing anther. The anther usually consists of two fused thecae. A theca is two microspoorangia. The gynoecium (women's house) is the collective term for the female organs (carpels). A carpel is a modified megasporophyll consisting of two or more ovules, which develop conduplicatively (folded along the line). The carpels may be single, or collected together, to form an ovary, and contain the ovules. Another term, pistil, refers to the ovary as its expanded base, the style, a column arising from the ovary, and an expanded tip, the stigma.\n\nWithin the stamen, the microsporangium forms grains of pollen, surrounded by a protective microspore, which form the male gametophyte. Within the carpel the megasporangium form the ovules, with its protective layers (integument) in the megaspore, and the female gametophyte. Unlike the male gametophyte, which is transported in the pollen, the female gametophyte remains within the ovule.\n\nMost flowers have both male and female organs, and hence are considered bisexual (perfect), which is thought to be the ancestral state. However, others have either one or the other and are therefore unisexual, or imperfect. In which case they may be either male (staminate) or female (pistillate). Plants may bear either all bisexual flowers (hermaphroditic), both male and female flowers (monoecious), or only one sex (dioecious), in which case separate plants are either male or female flower-bearing. Where both bisexual and unisexual flowers exist on the same plant, it is called polygamous. Polygamous plants may have bisexual and staminate flowers (andromonoecious), bisexual and pistillate flowers (gynomonoecious), or both (trimonoecious). Other combinations include the presence of bisexual flowers on some individual plants and staminate on others (androdioecious), or bisexual and pistillate (gynodioecious). Finally, trioecious plants have bisexual, staminate, or pistillate flowers on different individuals. Arrangements other than hermaphroditic help to ensure outcrossing.\n\nThe development of the embryo and gametophytes is called embryology. The study of pollens which persist in soil for many years is called palynology. Reproduction occurs when male and female gametophytes interact. This generally requires an external agent such as wind or insects to carry the pollen from the stamen to the vicinity of the ovule. This process is called pollination. In gymnosperms (literally \"naked seed\") pollen comes into direct contact with the exposed ovule. In angiosperms the ovule is enclosed in the carpel, requiring a specialised structure, the stigma, to receive the pollen. On the surface of the stigma, the pollen germinates; that is, the male gametophyte penetrates the pollen wall into the stigma, and a pollen tube, an extension of the pollen grain, extends towards the carpel, carrying with it the sperm cells (male gametes) until they encounter the ovule, where they gain access through a pore in the ovule's integument (micropyle), allowing fertilisation to occur. Once the ovule has been fertilised, a new sporophyte, protected and nurtured by the female gametophyte, develops and becomes an embryo. When development stops, the embryo becomes dormant, as a seed. Within the embryo are the primordial shoot and root.\n\nIn angiosperms, as the seed develops after fertilisation, so does the surrounding carpel, its walls thickening or hardening, developing colours or nutrients that attract animals or birds. This new entity with its dormant seeds is the fruit, whose functions are protecting the seed and dispersing it. In some cases, androecium and gynaecium may be fused. The resulting structure is a gynandrium (gynostegium, gynostemium, or column), which is supported by an androgynosphore.\n\n\nPlants, with regard to identification and classification, are not often characterized by their roots, which are important in determining plant duration. However, in some groups, including the grasses, roots are important for proper identification.\n\n\n\n\n\nLeaf Parts: – A complete leaf is composed of a blade, petiole, and stipules, but in many plants one or more might be lacking or highly modified.\n\nDuration of leaves:\n\nVenation:\n\nLeaf Arrangement or Phyllotaxy:\n\nLeaf Type:\n\nLeaf Blade Shape:\n\n\nLeaf Base Shape:\n\nLeaf Blade Apex:\n\nLeaf Blade Margins:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFruits are the mature ovary of seed-bearing plants, and they include the contents of the ovary, which can be floral parts like the receptacle, involucre, calyx, and others that are fused to it. Fruits are often used to identify plant taxa, help to place the species in the correct family, or differentiate different groups within the same family.\n\n\nFruits are divided into different types, depending on how they form, where or how they open, and what parts they are composed of.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607", "title": "Humus", "text": "Humus\n\nIn soil science, humus (derived in 1790–1800 from the Latin \"humus\" for earth, ground) denominates the fraction of soil organic matter that is amorphous and without the \"cellular cake structure characteristic of plants, micro-organisms or animals.\" Humus significantly affects the bulk density of soil and contributes to its retention of moisture and nutrients.\n\nIn agriculture, \"humus\" sometimes also is used to describe mature or natural compost extracted from a woodland or other spontaneous source for use as a soil conditioner. It is also used to describe a topsoil horizon that contains organic matter (humus type, humus form, humus profile).\n\nHumus is the dark organic matter that forms in soil when dead plant and animal matter decays. Humus has many nutrients that improve the health of soil, nitrogen being the most important. The ratio of carbon to nitrogen (C:N) of humus is 10:1.\n\nIt is difficult to define humus precisely because it is a very complex substance which is not fully understood. Humus is different from decomposing soil organic matter. The latter looks rough and has visible remains of the original plant or animal matter. Fully humified humus, on the contrary, has a uniformly dark, spongy, and jelly-like appearance, and is amorphous; it may gradually decompose over several years or persist for millennia. It has no determinate shape, structure, or quality. However, when examined under a microscope, humus may reveal tiny plant, animal, or microbial remains that have been mechanically, but not chemically, degraded. This suggests an ambiguous boundary between humus and soil organic matter. While distinct, humus is an integral part of soil organic matter.\n\nMicroorganisms decompose a large portion of the soil organic matter into inorganic minerals that the roots of plants can absorb as nutrients. This process is termed \"mineralization\". In this process, nitrogen (nitrogen cycle) and the other nutrients (nutrient cycle) in the decomposed organic matter are recycled. Depending on the conditions in which the decomposition occurs, a fraction of the organic matter does not mineralize, and instead is transformed by a process called \"humification\" into concatenations of organic polymers. Because these organic polymers are resistant to the action of microorganisms, they are stable, and constitute \"humus\". This stability implies that humus integrates into the permanent structure of the soil, thereby improving it.\n\nHumification can occur naturally in soil or artificially in the production of compost. Organic matter is humified by a combination of saprotrophic fungi, bacteria, microbes and animals such as earthworms, nematodes, protozoa, and arthropods. Plant remains, including those that animals digested and excreted, contain organic compounds: sugars, starches, proteins, carbohydrates, lignins, waxes, resins, and organic acids. Decay in the soil begins with the decomposition of sugars and starches from carbohydrates, which decompose easily as detritivores initially invade the dead plant organs, while the remaining cellulose and lignin decompose more slowly. Simple proteins, organic acids, starches, and sugars decompose rapidly, while crude proteins, fats, waxes, and resins remain relatively unchanged for longer periods of time. Lignin, which is quickly transformed by white-rot fungi, is one of the primary precursors of humus, together with by-products of microbial and animal activity. The humus produced by humification is thus a mixture of compounds and complex biological chemicals of plant, animal, or microbial origin that has many functions and benefits in soil. Some judge earthworm humus (vermicompost) to be the optimal organic manure.\n\nMuch of the humus in most soils has persisted for more than 100 years, rather than having been decomposed into CO, and can be regarded as stable; this organic matter has been protected from decomposition by microbial or enzyme action because it is hidden (occluded) inside small aggregates of soil particles, or tightly sorbed or complexed to clays. Most humus that is not protected in this way is decomposed within 10 years and can be regarded as less stable or more labile. Stable humus contributes few plant-available nutrients in soil, but it helps maintain its physical structure. A very stable form of humus is formed from the slow oxidation of soil carbon after the incorporation of finely powdered charcoal into the topsoil. This process is speculated to have been important in the formation of the very fertile Amazonian \"terra preta do Indio\".\n\nHumus has a characteristic black or dark brown color and is organic due to an accumulation of organic carbon. Soil scientists use the capital letters O, A, B, C, and E to identify the master horizons, and lowercase letters for distinctions of these horizons. Most soils have three major horizons: the surface horizon (A), the subsoil (B), and the substratum (C). Some soils have an organic horizon (O) on the surface, but this horizon can also be buried. The master horizon (E) is used for subsurface horizons that have significantly lost minerals (eluviation). Bedrock, which is not soil, uses the letter R.\n\nThe importance of chemically stable humus is thought by some to be the fertility it provides to soils in both a physical and chemical sense, though some agricultural experts put a greater focus on other features of it, such as its ability to suppress disease. It helps the soil retain moisture by increasing microporosity, and encourages the formation of good soil structure. The incorporation of oxygen into large organic molecular assemblages generates many active, negatively charged sites that bind to positively charged ions (cations) of plant nutrients, making them more available to the plant by way of ion exchange. Humus allows soil organisms to feed and reproduce, and is often described as the \"life-force\" of the soil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48698718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48698718", "title": "L'Industrie Electrique et le Ressource Motrice de la Turquie", "text": "L'Industrie Electrique et le Ressource Motrice de la Turquie\n\nL'Industrie Electrique et le Ressource Motrice de la Turquie is a book by Hasan Halet Işıkpınar first published in 1932. It was originally printed in İstanbul in French language as written by the author. The book mainly focuses on the electrical and petroleum resources of the newly founded Turkish Republic, mainly with the aim of drawing attention to the potential of the country. The findings were later presented to Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, founder of the modern Turkish Republic. Today it is still a widely cited resource for researchers interested in the topic.\n"}
{"id": "16921372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16921372", "title": "Leaching (agriculture)", "text": "Leaching (agriculture)\n\nIn agriculture, leaching is the loss of water-soluble plant nutrients from the soil, due to rain and irrigation. Soil structure, crop planting, type and application rates of fertilizers, and other factors are taken into account to avoid excessive nutrient loss. Leaching may also refer to the practice of applying a small amount of excess irrigation where the water has a high salt content to avoid salts from building up in the soil (salinity control). Where this is practiced, drainage must also usually be employed, to carry away the excess water.\n\nLeaching is a natural environment concern when it contributes to groundwater contamination. As water from rain, flooding, or other sources seeps into the ground, it can dissolve chemicals and carry them into the underground water supply. Of particular concern are hazardous waste dumps and landfills, and, in agriculture, excess fertilizer, improperly stored animal manure, and biocides (e.g. pesticides, fungicides, insecticides and herbicides).\n\nNitrogen is a common element in nature and an essential plant nutrient. Approximately 78% of Earth's atmosphere is nitrogen (N). The strong bond between the atoms of N makes this gas quite inert and not directly usable by plants and animals. As nitrogen naturally cycles through the air, water and soil it undergoes various chemical and biological transformations. Nitrogen promotes plant growth. Livestock then eat the crops producing manure, which is returned to the soil, adding organic and mineral forms of nitrogen. The cycle is complete when the next crop uses the amended soil. To increase food production, fertilizers, such as nitrate (NO) and ammonium (NH), which are easily absorbed by plants, are introduced to the plant root zone. However, soils do not absorb the excess NO ions, which then move downward freely with drainage water, and are leached into groundwater, streams and oceans. The degree of leaching is affected by:\n\nThe level of nitrous oxide (NO) in the Earth's atmosphere is increasing at a rate of 0.2 to 0.3% annually. Anthropogenic sources of nitrogen are 50% greater than from natural sources, such as, soils and oceans. Leached agricultural inputs, i.e. fertilizers and manures, accounts for 75% of the anthropogenic source of nitrogen. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates world demand for nitrogen fertilizers will increase by 1.7% annually between 2011 and 2015. An increase of 7.5 million tonnes. Regional increases of nitrogen fertilizer use are expected to be 67% by Asia, 18% by the Americas, 10% by Europe, 3% by Africa,and 1% by Oceania.\n\nPhosphorus (P) is a key nutrient regarding the eutrophication of surface waters and has been shown to limit algae growth in lake environments. Loss of P from agricultural fields has long been recognized as one of the major threats to surface water quality. Leaching is an important transport pathway for P losses from agricultural fields in predominantly flat areas with sandy soils or soils prone to preferential flow. As opposed to nitrogen phosphorus does interact with soil particles via adsorption and desorption. Important potential adsorption sites for P in soils are surfaces of iron and aluminum oxides or hydroxides such as gibbsite or ferrihydrite. Soils, especially those rich in such minerals do hence have a potential to store P added with fertilizer or manure. Adsorbed P stands in a complex equilibrium with P in the soil solution which is controlled by a multitude of different factors such as:\nPhosphorus will leach when this equilibrium is shifted such that either previously adsorbed P is released into the soil solution or additional P cannot be adsorbed anymore. Many cultivated soils have been receiving fertilizer or manure P in amounts frequently exceeding the crop demand and this often over decades. Phosphorus added to such soils leaches simply because most of the potential adsorption sites are occupied by P input from the past, so called “legacy phosphorus”. Leaching of P may also be caused by changing chemical conditions in the soil. A decrease in the soils redox potential due to prolonged water saturation may lead to reductive dissolution of ferric iron minerals that are important P sorption sites. Phosphorus adsorbed to these minerals is consequently released into the soil solution as well and may be leached. This process is of special concern in the restoration of natural wetlands that have previously been drained for agricultural production\n\nHigh levels of NO in water can adversely affect oxygen levels for both humans and aquatic systems. Human health issues include methemoglobinemia and anoxia, commonly referred to as blue baby syndrome. As a result of these toxic effects, regulatory agencies limit the amount of NO permissible in drinking water to 45–50 mg1-1. Eutrophication, a decline in oxygen content of water, of aquatic systems can cause the death of fish and other marine species. Finally, leaching of NO from acidic sources can increase the loss of calcium and other soil nutrients, thereby reducing an ecosystem's productivity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12728727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12728727", "title": "List of Chernobyl-related articles", "text": "List of Chernobyl-related articles\n\nThis is a list of Chernobyl-related articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7418510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7418510", "title": "List of Linyphiidae species (I–P)", "text": "List of Linyphiidae species (I–P)\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Linyphiidae as of Dec. 17, 2013, from I to P. Some genera have been updated to the World Spider Catalog version 16.5 .\n\n\"Ibadana\" \n\n\"Iberoneta\" \n\n\"Icariella\" \n\n\"Idionella\" \n\n\"Improphantes\" \n\n\"Incestophantes\" \n\n\"Indophantes\" \n\n\"Intecymbium\" \n\n\"Ipa\" \n\n\"Ipaoides\" \n\n\"Islandiana\" \n\n\"Ivielum\" \n\n\"Jacksonella\" \n\n\"Jalapyphantes\" \n\n\"Janetschekia\" \n\n\"Johorea\" \n\n\"Juanfernandezia\" \n\n\"Kaestneria\" \n\n\"Kagurargus\" \n\"Kalimagone\" \n\n\"Karita\" \n\n\"Kenocymbium\" \n\n\"Ketambea\" \n\n\"Kikimora\" \n\n\"Knischatiria\" \n\n\"Koinothrix\" \n\n\"Kolymocyba\" \n\n\"Kratochviliella\" \n\n\"Labicymbium\" \n\n\"Labulla\" \n\n\"Labullinyphia\" \n\n\"Labullula\" \n\n\"Laetesia\" \n\n\"Laminacauda\" \n\n\"Laminafroneta\" \n\n\"Laperousea\" \n\n\"Lasiargus\" \n\n\"Lepthyphantes\" \n\n\"Leptorhoptrum\" \n\n\"Leptothrix\" \n\n\"Lessertia\" \n\n\"Lessertinella\" \n\n\"Lidia\" \n\n\"Limoneta\" \n\n\"Linga\" \n\n\"Linyphantes\" \n\n\"Linyphia\" \n\n\"Locketidium\" \n\n\"Locketiella\" \n\n\"Locketina\" \n\n\"Lomaita\" \n\n\"Lophomma\" \n\n\"Lotusiphantes\" \n\n\"Lucrinus\" \n\n\"Lygarina\" \n\n\"Machadocara\" \n\n\"Macrargus\" \n\n\"Maculoncus\" \n\n\"Malkinola\" \n\n\"Mansuphantes\" \n\n\"Maorineta\" \n\n\"Maro\" \n\n\"Martensinus\" \n\n\"Masikia\" \n\n\"Maso\" \n\n\"Masoncus\" \n\n\"Masonetta\" \n\n\"Mecopisthes\" \n\n\"Mecynargoides\" \n\n\"Mecynargus\" \n\n\"Mecynidis\" \n\n\"Megafroneta\" \n\n"}
{"id": "6068452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6068452", "title": "List of SSSIs in Carmarthen &amp; Dinefwr", "text": "List of SSSIs in Carmarthen &amp; Dinefwr\n\nSSSIs in the UK are notified using the concept of an Area of Search (AOS), an area of between and in size. The Areas of Search were conceived and developed between 1975 and 1979 by the Nature Conservancy Council (NCC), based on regions created by the Local Government Act 1972. Whereas England had its Areas of Search based on 46 counties, those in Wales were based on a combination of the counties and smaller districts. In 1974, Wales was divided into 8 counties, with 37 districts. The NCC created 12 Welsh Areas of Search; they mostly follow county borders, but the larger counties (Dyfed, Powys and Gwynedd) were divided into multiple Areas using district borders. Mid and South Glamorgan were merged into a single AOS, whilst Llanelli district was included in the West Glamorgan AOS.\n\nDue to subsequent local government reorganisation in the UK since 1972, many counties and districts have been divided, merged or renamed. Using the AOS system alone would make it difficult to search for individual SSSI citations via the Countryside Council for Wales (CCW) database without knowing 1972 region divisions. As a result, the CCW groups Welsh SSSIs using the subdivisions of Wales formed in April 1996 by the Local Government (Wales) Act 1994, resulting in 22 principal areas.\n\nCarmarthen & Dinefwr AOS lies within the county of Carmarthenshire.\n\nFor SSSIs elsewhere in the UK, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "28060396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28060396", "title": "List of globally invasive species", "text": "List of globally invasive species\n\nThis is a list of 100 of the \"worst\" invasive species in the Global Invasive Species Database, . The IUCN Invasive Species Specialist Group (ISSG), which maintains the list, acknowledges that it is \"very difficult to identify 100 invasive species from around the world that really are 'worse' than any others.\"\n\nTwo criteria were used in selecting items for the list (Homo Sapiens being excluded):\n\n\nAccording to the ISSG, \"only one species from each genus was selected.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39953532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39953532", "title": "List of local nature reserves in Greater London", "text": "List of local nature reserves in Greater London\n\nLondon is one of the largest urban areas in Europe, with an area of 1,572 km (607 sq mi). Its boundaries were set in 1965 when Greater London, which covers the 32 London boroughs and the City of London, was created. Almost two-thirds of it is green space and wetlands. Its population according to the 2011 census was 8.17 million.\n\nLocal nature reserve (LNR) is a statutory designation by local authorities which gives protection to wildlife habitats and natural features. It allows local authorities to apply local bye-laws to manage and protect sites. The local authority must have a legal interest in the site, by owning or leasing it or having a nature reserve agreement with the owner. As of January 2016, Natural England gives details of 144 local nature reserves declared by local authorities in Greater London, which are listed below.\n\nThe largest site, at , is Brent Reservoir, most of which is a Site of Special Scientific Interest for its breeding wetland birds, especially great crested grebes, and for its marsh plant life. The smallest is Burnt Ash Pond at , an old farm pond in the middle of a residential area. The longest is Parkland Walk, a linear site of along the route of an old railway line. Perivale Wood is one of the oldest nature reserves in Britain. It has been managed by the Selborne Society since 1902, and was designated an LNR in 1974. The newest LNRs are Coldfall Wood, Alexandra Palace and Park and Masons Field, all declared in 2013. Several sites, including Camley Street Natural Park in Kings Cross and Frays Valley, are managed by the London Wildlife Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "19400830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400830", "title": "List of native plants of Flora Palaestina (P–Z)", "text": "List of native plants of Flora Palaestina (P–Z)\n\nThis is an incomplete list of 2,700 species of vascular plants which are native to the region of Palestine as defined by \"Flora Palaestina\". The region includes: the whole area of the State of Israel; the West Bank; the Gaza Strip; the Golan Heights; the Israeli-occupied part of Mount Hermon; and the East Bank, which is the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.\n\nThe table below lists alphabetically all species with initial letters P-Z. For other species and some background information, click here:\n"}
{"id": "38606475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38606475", "title": "List of nature centers in Kansas", "text": "List of nature centers in Kansas\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Kansas. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10118477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10118477", "title": "List of pests and diseases of roses", "text": "List of pests and diseases of roses\n\nRoses (\"Rosa\" species) are susceptible to a number of pests, diseases and disorders. A large number of the problems affecting roses are seasonal and climatic. Some varieties of roses are naturally more resistant or immune than others to certain pests and diseases. Cultivation requirements of individual rose species and cultivars, when observed, often assist in the prevention of pests, diseases and disorders.\n\nInsects that affect roses are often considered pests.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPlant-parasitic nematodes include several genera and can be detrimental to plants - from attacking plants, acting as vectors spreading plant viruses to endoparasites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16074791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16074791", "title": "List of rivers of Kenya", "text": "List of rivers of Kenya\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Kenya. This list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1780609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780609", "title": "List of seas", "text": "List of seas\n\nThis is a list of seas - large divisions of the World Ocean, including areas of water variously, gulfs, bights, bays, and straits.\n\n\nThere are several terms used for bulges of ocean that result from indentations of land, which overlap in definition, and which are not consistently differentiated:\n\n\nMany features could be considered to be more than one of these, and all of these terms are used in place names inconsistently; especially bays, gulfs, and bights, which can be very large or very small. This list includes large areas of water no matter the term used in the name.\n\nSources differ over which seas are considered marginal seas as well as which ocean a given sea is considered a marginal part of. There is no single ultimate authority on the matter.\n\nSometimes the Arctic Ocean itself is considered a marginal sea of the Atlantic, in addition to the below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEntities called \"seas\" which are not divisions of the Earth's the World Ocean are not included in this list. Excluded are:\n\nOther items not included:\n\n"}
{"id": "28778177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28778177", "title": "Magnetic mineralogy", "text": "Magnetic mineralogy\n\nMagnetic mineralogy is the study of the magnetic properties of minerals. The contribution of a mineral to the total magnetism of a rock depends strongly on the type of magnetic order or disorder. Magnetically disordered minerals (diamagnets and paramagnets) contribute a weak magnetism and have no remanence. The more important minerals for rock magnetism are the minerals that can be magnetically ordered, at least at some temperatures. These are the ferromagnets, ferrimagnets and certain kinds of antiferromagnets. These minerals have a much stronger response to the field and can have a remanence.\n\nMost minerals with no iron content are diamagnetic. Some such minerals may have a significant positive magnetic susceptibility, for example serpentine, but this is because the minerals have inclusions containing strongly magnetic minerals such as magnetite. The susceptibility of such minerals is negative and small (Table 1).\n\nMost iron-bearing carbonates and silicates are paramagnetic at all temperatures. Some sulfides are paramagnetic, but some are strongly magnetic (see below). In addition, many of the strongly magnetic minerals discussed below are paramagnetic above a critical temperature (the Curie temperature or Néel temperature). In Table 2 are given susceptibilities for some iron-bearing minerals. The susceptibilities are positive and an order of magnitude or more larger than diamagnetic susceptibilities.\n\nMany of the most important magnetic minerals on Earth are oxides of iron and titanium. Their compositions are conveniently represented on a ternary plot with axes corresponding to the proportions of , , and . Important regions on the diagram include the \"titanomagnetites\", which form a line of compositions for between 0 and 1. At the end is magnetite, while the composition is ulvöspinel. The titanomagnetites have an inverse spinel crystal structure and at high temperatures are a solid solution series. Crystals formed from titanomagnetites by cation-deficient oxidation are called \"titanomaghemites\", an important example of which is maghemite. Another series, the \"titanohematites\", have hematite and ilmenite as their end members, and so are also called \"hemoilmenites\". The crystal structure of hematite is trigonal-hexagonal. It has the same composition as maghemite; to distinguish between them, their chemical formulae are generally given as γ for hematite and α for maghemite.\n\nThe other important class of strongly magnetic minerals is the iron sulfides, particularly greigite and pyrrhotite.\n\nExtraterrestrial environments being low in oxygen, minerals tend to have very little . The primary magnetic phase on the Moon is ferrite, the body-centered cubic (bcc) phase of iron. As the proportion of iron decreases, the crystal structure changes from bcc to face centered cubic (fcc). Nickel iron mixtures tend to exsolve into a mixture of iron-rich kamacite and iron-poor taenite.\n\n"}
{"id": "5805247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5805247", "title": "Nodule (geology)", "text": "Nodule (geology)\n\nIn sedimentology and geology, a nodule is small, irregularly rounded knot, mass, or lump of a mineral or mineral aggregate that typically has a contrasting composition, such as a pyrite nodule in coal, a chert nodule in limestone, or a phosphorite nodule in marine shale, from the enclosing sediment or sedimentary rock. Normally, a nodule has a warty or knobby surface and exists as a discrete mass within the host strata. In general, they lack any internal structure except for the preserved remnants of original bedding or fossils. Nodules are closely related to concretions and sometimes these terms are used interchangeably. Minerals that typically form nodules include calcite, chert, apatite (phosphorite), anhydrite, and pyrite.\n\nIn sedimentology and geology, nodular is used to describe a sediment or sedimentary rock composed of scattered to loosely packed nodules in matrix of like or unlike character. It is also used to describe mineral aggregates that occur in the form of nodules, e.g. colloform mineral aggregate with a bulbed surface.\n\n\"Nodule\" is also used for widely scattered concretionary lumps of manganese, cobalt, iron, and nickel found on the floors of the world's oceans. This is especially true of manganese nodules. Manganese and phosphorite nodules form on the seafloor and are syndepositional in origin. Thus, technically speaking, they are concretions instead of nodules.\n\nChert and flint nodules are often found in beds of limestone and chalk. They form from the redeposition of amorphous silica arising from the dissolution of siliceous spicules of sponges, or debris from radiolaria and the postdepositional replacement of either the enclosing limestone or chalk by this silica.\n\n"}
{"id": "2435860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2435860", "title": "Orbit@home", "text": "Orbit@home\n\nOrbit@home was a BOINC-based distributed computing project of the Planetary Science Institute. It uses the \"Orbit Reconstruction, Simulation and Analysis\" framework to optimize the search strategies that are used to find near-Earth objects.\n\nOn March 4, 2008, Orbit@home completed the installation of its new server and officially opened to new members. On April 11, Orbit@home launched a Windows version of their client. On February 16, 2013, the project was halted due to lack of grant funding. However, on July 23, 2013, the Orbit@home project was selected for funding by NASA's Near Earth Object Observation program. It was announced that Orbit@home is to resume operations sometime in 2014 or 2015. As of July 13, 2018, Orbit@home is offline according to its website, and the upgrade announcement has been removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16706123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16706123", "title": "Owen Fracture Zone", "text": "Owen Fracture Zone\n\nThe Owen Fracture Zone (OFZ), though misnamed a fracture zone, is a transform fault in the northwest Indian Ocean that separates the Arabian and African Plates from the Indian Plate. Extending north-northeast from where the Carlsberg Ridge meets the Sheba ridge in the south to the Makran Subduction Zone in the north, it represents the port side of the northward motion of the Indian subcontinent during the Late Cretaceous–Palaeogene break-up of Gondwana. Slip along the Owen Fracture Zone is occurring at /yr, the slowest rate on Earth, which means the Arabian Plate moves northward faster than the Indian Plate (4 vs. 2 mm/yr).\n\nIn some usages, the name Owen Transform Fault is used to denote the short section between the end of the Aden-Sheba ridge and the Carlsberg Ridge. Additionally, this area has been called the Aden-Owen-Carlsberg Triple Junction, although the Carlsberg Ridge is offset from the point where the Owen Fracture Zone/Fault intersects the Sheba segment of the Aden Ridge.\n\nOwen Fracture Zone is named after HMS \"Owen\" that identified the 'fracture line' in April/May 1963. The Owen fracture Zone and the Dalrymple Trough north of it (named after HMS \"Dalrymple\" surveyed the area together with HMS \"Owen\") form the modern boundary between the Arabian and Indian Plates.\n-long, the Owen Fracture Zone runs along the Owen Ridge which is divided into two. The Southern Owen Ridge, and -wide, is a near-linear structure that drops steeply on its eastern side. The top layers of the Southern Ridge are formed by the Oligocene-Early Miocene turbidites of the Indus River Fan and later cover. The Central Owen ridge, -long and -wide, in contrast, is more uneven and reaches a maximum height of . The Qalhat Seamount and Murray Ridge are located at the northern end of the Owen Fracture Zone.\n\nThe exchange of deep water from the Somali Basin to the Arabian Basin through the OFZ has been estimated to 2 Sv. In the Arabian Basin the current splits into a northern and southern branch that both flow parallel to the Carlsberg Ridge.\n\nSeafloor spreading in the Sheba ridge began . Subduction in the Makran Trench was initiated in the Late Cretaceous and the accretionary wedge there developed . Seismic lines from drillings in the 1970s and 1980s beneath both ridges revealed a structure now known as the -old Proto-Owen Ridge which was uplifted and rejuvenated during the Early Miocene. According to one reconstruction, before the initiation of the Carlsberg Ridge the Arabian–Indian boundary was located off Oman while the Mascarene Basin opened between Madagascar and the Seychelles. In the Early Miocene ( ) the boundary jumped to its present location which uplifted the Owen Ridge.\n-long offsets along the OFZ indicate a 3-6 Ma-old dextral strike-slip motion but this motion can be extended to 20 Ma based on magnetic anomaly reconstructions. This coincides with a general reorganisation of continental plates in the Indian Ocean in response to the Arabia-Eurasia collision.\n\n"}
{"id": "44670635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44670635", "title": "Pisco Formation", "text": "Pisco Formation\n\nThe Pisco Formation is a geologic formation located in Peru, on the southern coastal desert of Ica and Arequipa. The approximately thick formation was deposited in the Pisco Basin, spanning an age from the Middle Miocene up to the Late Pliocene, roughly from 15 to 3 Ma. The tuffaceous sandstones, diatomaceous siltstones, conglomerates and dolomites were deposited in a lagoonal to near-shore environment, in bays similar to other Pacific South American formations as the Bahía Inglesa and Coquimbo Formations of Chile. \n\nSeveral specialists consider the Pisco Formation one of the most important Lagerstätten, based on the large amount of exceptionally preserved marine fossils, including sharks (most notably \"Megalodon\"), penguins, whales, dolphins, birds, marine crocodiles and aquatic giant sloths.\n\nFamous fossils found in these layers include the giant raptorial sperm whale \"Livyatan\", the aquatic sloth \"Thalassocnus\", the sperm whale \"Acrophyseter\", and the walrus-like dolphin \"Odobenocetops\".\n\nThe Pisco Formation of the Pisco Basin consists of tuffaceous sandstones, diatomaceous yellow to gray siltstones and a basal conglomerate. The formation is deposited from Pisco in the north to Yauca in the south. The northern portion is known as the Ocucaje Area and the southern part as the Sacaco Area. The total thickness of the formation is estimated at . The formation unconformably overlies the Chilcatay and Caballas Formations.\n\nThe Pisco Formation has provided a rich resource of marine fauna, including marine mammals like cetaceans and seals, large fishes, reptiles, and penguins. It is also one of the richest sites in the world for fossil cetaceans, with close to 500 examples being found in the formation.\n\nThe oldest fossils of the aquatic sloth \"Thalassocnus\" (\"T. antiquus\") come from the Aguada de Lomas horizon of the Pisco Formation and were dated at roughly 7 Ma. The youngest specimen (\"T. carolomartini\") was found in the Sacaco horizon and dated to approximately 3 Ma. \"Thalassocnus\" was preyed upon by the probable apex predators of the environment, \"Livyatan\" and megalodon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22948", "title": "Poseidon", "text": "Poseidon\n\nPoseidon (; , ) was one of the Twelve Olympians in ancient Greek religion and myth. He was god of the Sea and other waters; of earthquakes; and of horses. In pre-Olympian Bronze Age Greece, he was venerated as a chief deity at Pylos and Thebes. His Roman equivalent is Neptune.\n\nPoseidon was protector of seafarers, and of many Hellenic cities and colonies. In Homer's \"Iliad\", Poseidon supports the Greeks against the Trojans during the Trojan War. In the \"Odyssey\", during the sea-voyage from Troy back home to Ithaca, the Greek hero Odysseus provokes Poseidon's fury by blinding his son, the Cyclops Polyphemus, resulting in Poseidon punishing him with storms, the complete loss of his ship and companions, and a ten-year delay. Poseidon is also the subject of a Homeric hymn. In Plato's \"Timaeus\" and \"Critias\", the island of Atlantis was Poseidon's domain.\n\nThe earliest attested occurrence of the name, written in Linear B, is \"Po-se-da-o\" or \"Po-se-da-wo-ne\", which correspond to (\"Poseidaōn\") and (\"Poseidawonos\") in Mycenean Greek; in Homeric Greek it appears as (\"Poseidaōn\"); in Aeolic as (\"Poteidaōn\"); and in Doric as (\"Poteidan\"), (\"Poteidaōn\"), and (\"Poteidas\"). The form (\"Poteidawon\") appears in Corinth. A common epithet of Poseidon is \"Enosichthon\", \"Earth-shaker\", an epithet which is also identified in Linear B, as , \"E-ne-si-da-o-ne\", This recalls his later epithets \"Ennosidas\" and \"Ennosigaios\" indicating the chthonic nature of Poseidon.\n\nThe origins of the name \"Poseidon\" are unclear. One theory breaks it down into an element meaning \"husband\" or \"lord\" (Greek (\"posis\"), from PIE \"*pótis\") and another element meaning \"earth\" ( (\"da\"), Doric for (\"gē\")), producing something like lord or spouse of \"Da\", i.e. of the earth; this would link him with Demeter, \"Earth-mother\". Walter Burkert finds that \"the second element \"da-\" remains hopelessly ambiguous\" and finds a \"husband of Earth\" reading \"quite impossible to prove.\"\n\nAnother theory interprets the second element as related to the word *δᾶϝον \"dâwon\", \"water\"; this would make *\"Posei-dawōn\" into the master of waters. There is also the possibility that the word has Pre-Greek origin. Plato in his dialogue Cratylus gives two alternative etymologies: either the sea restrained Poseidon when walking as a \"foot-bond\" (ποσίδεσμον), or he \"knew many things\" (πολλά εἰδότος or πολλά εἰδῶν).\n\nAt least a few sources deem Poseidon as a \"prehellenic\" (i.e. Pelasgian) word, considering an Indo-European etymology \"quite pointless\".\n\nIf surviving Linear B clay tablets can be trusted, the name \"po-se-da-wo-ne\" (\"Poseidon\") occurs with greater frequency than does \"di-u-ja\" (\"Zeus\"). A feminine variant, \"po-se-de-ia\", is also found, indicating a lost consort goddess, in effect the precursor of Amphitrite.\nPoseidon carries frequently the title \"wa-na-ka\" (wanax) in Linear B inscriptions, as king of the underworld. The chthonic nature of Poseidon-Wanax is also indicated by his title \"E-ne-si-da-o-ne\" in Mycenean Knossos and Pylos, a powerful attribute (earthquakes had accompanied the collapse of the Minoan palace-culture). In the cave of Amnisos (Crete) \"Enesidaon\" is related with the cult of Eileithyia, the goddess of childbirth. She was related with the annual birth of the divine child. During the Bronze Age, a goddess of nature, dominated both in Minoan and Mycenean cult, and \"Wanax\" (\"wa-na-ka\") was her male companion (paredros) in Mycenean cult. It is possible that Demeter appears as \"Da-ma-te\" in a Linear B inscription (PN EN 609), however the interpretetion is still under dispute.\n\nIn Linear B inscriptions found at Pylos, \"E-ne-si-da-o-ne\" is related with Poseidon, and \"Si-to Po-tini-ja\" is probably related with Demeter.\nTablets from Pylos record sacrificial goods destined for \"the Two Queens and Poseidon\" (\"to the Two Queens and the King\": \"wa-na-soi\", \"wa-na-ka-te\"). The \"Two Queens\" may be related with Demeter and Persephone, or their precursors, goddesses who were not associated with Poseidon in later periods.\n\nThe illuminating exception is the archaic and localised myth of the stallion Poseidon and mare Demeter at Phigalia in isolated and conservative Arcadia, noted by Pausanias (2nd century AD) as having fallen into desuetude; \nthe stallion Poseidon pursues the mare-Demeter, and from the union she bears the horse Arion, and a daughter (Despoina), who obviously had the shape of a mare too. The violated Demeter was \"Demeter Erinys\" (furious) . In Arcadia, Demeter's mare-form was worshiped into historical times. Her \"xoanon\" of Phigaleia shows how the local cult interpreted her, as goddess of nature. A Medusa type with a horse's head with snaky hair, holding a dove and a dolphin, probably representing her power over air and water.\n\nIt seems that the Arcadian myth is related with the first Greek speaking people who entered the region during the Bronze Age. (Linear B represents an archaic Greek dialect). Their religious beliefs were mixed with the beliefs of the indigenous population. It is possible that the Greeks did not bring with them other gods except Zeus, Eos, and the Dioskouroi. The horse (numina) was related with the liquid element, and with the underworld. Poseidon appears as a beast (horse), which is the river spirit of the underworld, as it usually happens in northern-European folklore, and not unusually in Greece. Poseidon “Wanax”, is the male companion (paredros) of the goddess of nature. In the relative Minoan myth, Pasiphaë is mating with the white bull, and she bears the hybrid creature Minotaur. The Bull was the old pre-Olympian Poseidon. The goddess of nature and her paredros survived in the Eleusinian cult, where the following words were uttered : \" Mighty Potnia bore a strong son\"\n\nIn the heavily sea-dependent Mycenaean culture, there is not sufficient evidence that Poseidon was connected with the sea. We do not know if \"Posedeia\" was a sea-goddess. Homer and Hesiod suggest that Poseidon became lord of the sea following the defeat of his father Kronos, when the world was divided by lot among his three sons; Zeus was given the sky, Hades the underworld, and Poseidon the sea, with the Earth and Mount Olympus belonging to all three.\nGiven Poseidon's connection with horses as well as the sea, and the landlocked situation of the likely Indo-European homeland, Nobuo Komita has proposed that Poseidon was originally an aristocratic Indo-European horse-god who was then assimilated to Near Eastern aquatic deities when the basis of the Greek livelihood shifted from the land to the sea, or a god of fresh waters who was assigned a secondary role as god of the sea, where he overwhelmed the original Aegean sea deities such as Proteus and Nereus. Conversely, Walter Burkert suggests that the Hellene cult worship of Poseidon as a horse god may be connected to the introduction of the horse and war-chariot from Anatolia to Greece around 1600 BC.\n\nIt is almost sure that once Poseidon was worshiped as a horse, and this is evident by his cult in Peloponnesos. However he was originally a god of the waters, and therefore he became the \"earth-shaker\", because the Greeks believed that the cause of the earthquakes was the erosion of the rocks by the waters, by the rivers who they saw to disappear into the earth and then to burst out again. This is what the natural philosophers Thales, Anaximenes and Aristotle believed, which could not be different from the folklore belief. Later, when the Myceneans travelled along the sea, he was assigned a role as god of the sea.\nIn any case, the early importance of Poseidon can still be glimpsed in Homer's \"Odyssey\", where Poseidon rather than Zeus is the major mover of events. In Homer, Poseidon is the master of the sea.\n\nPoseidon was a major civic god of several cities: in Athens, he was second only to Athena in importance, while in Corinth and many cities of Magna Graecia he was the chief god of the polis.\n\nIn his benign aspect, Poseidon was seen as creating new islands and offering calm seas. When offended or ignored, he supposedly struck the ground with his trident and caused chaotic springs, earthquakes, drownings and shipwrecks. Sailors prayed to Poseidon for a safe voyage, sometimes drowning horses as a sacrifice; in this way, according to a fragmentary papyrus, Alexander the Great paused at the Syrian seashore before the climactic battle of Issus, and resorted to prayers, \"invoking Poseidon the sea-god, for whom he ordered a four-horse chariot to be cast into the waves.\"\n\nAccording to Pausanias, Poseidon was one of the caretakers of the oracle at Delphi before Olympian Apollo took it over. Apollo and Poseidon worked closely in many realms: in colonization, for example, Delphic Apollo provided the authorization to go out and settle, while Poseidon watched over the colonists on their way, and provided the lustral water for the foundation-sacrifice. Xenophon's \"Anabasis\" describes a group of Spartan soldiers in 400–399 BC singing to Poseidon a paean—a kind of hymn normally sung for Apollo.\n\nLike Dionysus, who inflamed the maenads, Poseidon also caused certain forms of mental disturbance. A Hippocratic text of ca 400 BC, \"On the Sacred Disease\" says that he was blamed for certain types of epilepsy.\n\nPoseidon was known in various guises, denoted by epithets. In the town of Aegae in Euboea, he was known as \"Poseidon Aegaeus\" and had a magnificent temple upon a hill. Poseidon also had a close association with horses, known under the epithet \"Poseidon Hippios\", usually in Arcadia. He is more often regarded as the tamer of horses, but in some myths he is their father, either by spilling his seed upon a rock or by mating with a creature who then gave birth to the first horse. He was closely related with the springs, and with the strike of his trident, he created springs. Many springs like Hippocrene and Aganippe in Helikon are related with the word horse (hippos). \n(also Glukippe, Hyperippe).\nIn the historical period, Poseidon was often referred to by the epithets \"Enosichthon\", \"Seisichthon\" and \"Ennosigaios\", and \"Gaiēochos\" all meaning \"earth-shaker\" and referring to his role in causing earthquakes.\n\nSome other epithets of Poseidon are:\n\nPoseidon was the second son of titans Cronus and Rhea. In most accounts he is swallowed by Cronus at birth but later saved, with his other brothers and sisters, by Zeus.\nHowever, in some versions of the story, he, like his brother Zeus, did not share the fate of his other brother and sisters who were eaten by Cronus. He was saved by his mother Rhea, who concealed him among a flock of lambs and pretended to have given birth to a colt, which she gave to Cronus to devour.\n\nAccording to John Tzetzes the \"kourotrophos\", or nurse of Poseidon was Arne, who denied knowing where he was, when Cronus came searching; according to Diodorus Siculus Poseidon was raised by the Telchines on Rhodes, just as Zeus was raised by the Korybantes on Crete.\n\nAccording to a single reference in the \"Iliad\", when the world was divided by lot in three, Zeus received the sky, Hades the underworld and Poseidon the sea. In the \"Odyssey\" (v.398), Poseidon has a home in \"Aegae\".\n\nAthena became the patron goddess of the city of Athens after a competition with Poseidon. Yet Poseidon remained a numinous presence on the Acropolis in the form of his surrogate, Erechtheus. At the dissolution festival at the end of the year in the Athenian calendar, the Skira, the priests of Athena and the priest of Poseidon would process under canopies to Eleusis. They agreed that each would give the Athenians one gift and the Athenians would choose whichever gift they preferred. Poseidon struck the ground with his trident and a spring sprang up; the water was salty and not very useful, whereas Athena offered them an olive tree.\n\nThe Athenians or their king, Cecrops, accepted the olive tree and along with it Athena as their patron, for the olive tree brought wood, oil and food. After the fight, infuriated at his loss, Poseidon sent a monstrous flood to the Attic Plain, to punish the Athenians for not choosing him. The depression made by Poseidon's trident and filled with salt water was surrounded by the northern hall of the Erechtheum, remaining open to the air. \"In cult, Poseidon was identified with Erechtheus,\" Walter Burkert noted; \"the myth turns this into a temporal-causal sequence: in his anger at losing, Poseidon led his son Eumolpus against Athens and killed Erectheus.\"\n\nThe contest of Athena and Poseidon was the subject of the reliefs on the western pediment of the Parthenon, the first sight that greeted the arriving visitor.\n\nThis myth is construed by Robert Graves and others as reflecting a clash between the inhabitants during Mycenaean times and newer immigrants. Athens at its height was a significant sea power, at one point defeating the Persian fleet at Salamis Island in a sea battle.\n\nPoseidon and Apollo, having offended Zeus by their rebellion in Hera's scheme, were temporarily stripped of their divine authority and sent to serve King Laomedon of Troy. He had them build huge walls around the city and promised to reward them well, a promise he then refused to fulfill. In vengeance, before the Trojan War, Poseidon sent a sea monster to attack Troy. The monster was later killed by Heracles.\n\nPoseidon was said to have had many lovers of both sexes (see expandable list below). His consort was Amphitrite, a nymph and ancient sea-goddess, daughter of Nereus and Doris. Together they had a son named Triton, a merman.\n\nPoseidon was the father of many heroes. He is thought to have fathered the famed Theseus.\n\nA mortal woman named Tyro was married to Cretheus (with whom she had one son, Aeson), but loved Enipeus, a river god. She pursued Enipeus, who refused her advances. One day, Poseidon, filled with lust for Tyro, disguised himself as Enipeus, and from their union were born the heroes Pelias and Neleus, twin boys. Poseidon also had an affair with Alope, his granddaughter through Cercyon, his son and King of Eleusis, begetting the Attic hero Hippothoon. Cercyon had his daughter buried alive but Poseidon turned her into the spring, Alope, near Eleusis.Poseidon rescued Amymone from a lecherous satyr and then fathered a child, Nauplius, by her.\n\nAfter having raped Caeneus, Poseidon fulfilled her request and changed her into a male warrior.\n\nA mortal woman named Cleito once lived on an isolated island; Poseidon fell in love with the human mortal and created a dwelling sanctuary at the top of a hill near the middle of the island and surrounded the dwelling with rings of water and land to protect her. She gave birth to five sets of twin boys; the firstborn, Atlas, became the first ruler of Atlantis.\n\nNot all of Poseidon's children were human. In an archaic myth, Poseidon once pursued Demeter. She spurned his advances, turning herself into a mare so that she could hide in a herd of horses; he saw through the deception and became a stallion and captured her. Their child was a horse, Arion, which was capable of human speech. Poseidon also had sexual intercourse with Medusa on the floor of a temple to Athena. Medusa was then changed into a monster by Athena. When she was later beheaded by the hero Perseus, Chrysaor and Pegasus emerged from her neck.\n\nHis other children include Polyphemus (the cyclops) and, finally, Alebion and Bergion and Otos and Ephialtae (the giants).\n\nMale lovers\n\n\nIn Greek art, Poseidon rides a chariot that was pulled by a hippocampus or by horses that could ride on the sea. He was associated with dolphins and three-pronged fish spears (tridents). He lived in a palace on the ocean floor, made of coral and gems.\n\nIn the \"Iliad\" Poseidon favors the Greeks, and on several occasion takes an active part in the battle against the Trojan forces. However, in Book XX he rescues Aeneas after the Trojan prince is laid low by Achilles.\n\nIn the \"Odyssey\", Poseidon is notable for his hatred of Odysseus who blinded the god's son, the cyclops Polyphemus. The enmity of Poseidon prevents Odysseus's return home to Ithaca for many years. Odysseus is even told, notwithstanding his ultimate safe return, that to placate the wrath of Poseidon will require one more voyage on his part.\n\nIn the \"Aeneid\", Neptune is still resentful of the wandering Trojans, but is not as vindictive as Juno, and in Book I he rescues the Trojan fleet from the goddess's attempts to wreck it, although his primary motivation for doing this is his annoyance at Juno's having intruded into his domain.\n\nA hymn to Poseidon included among the Homeric Hymns is a brief invocation, a seven-line introduction that addresses the god as both \"mover of the earth and barren sea, god of the deep who is also lord of Helicon and wide Aegae, and specifies his twofold nature as an Olympian: \"a tamer of horses and a saviour of ships.\"\n\nPoseidon appears in \"Percy Jackson and the Olympians\" as the father of Percy Jackson and Tyson the Cyclops. He also appears in the ABC television series \"Once Upon a Time\" as the guest star of the second half of season four played by Ernie Hudson. In this version, Poseidon is portrayed as the father of the Sea Witch Ursula.\n\nBibliography of reconstruction: \n\nBibliography of reconstruction: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25818508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25818508", "title": "Poseidon Ocean", "text": "Poseidon Ocean\n\nThe Poseidon Ocean is a supposed ocean that existed in the Mesoproterozoic period of the geologic timescale (between 1600 and 1000 million years ago). It began to form when a hotspot collided with lithosphere that was already in an extensional regime that allowed rifting to occur at the onset of hotspot volcanism that created the Mackenzie Large Igneous Province. This hotspot, known as the Mackenzie hotspot, produced passive rifting to form a triple junction. As two of the rift arms continued to grow, they created the Poseidon Ocean basin. The third rift arm failed to open fully, creating an aulacogen.\n"}
{"id": "37019407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37019407", "title": "Rho Arae", "text": "Rho Arae\n\nThe Bayer designation Rho Arae (ρ Ara / ρ Arae) is shared by two star systems, in the constellation Ara:\n"}
{"id": "459426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459426", "title": "Rossby number", "text": "Rossby number\n\nThe Rossby number (Ro) named for Carl-Gustav Arvid Rossby, is a dimensionless number used in describing fluid flow. The Rossby number is the ratio of inertial force to Coriolis force, terms formula_1 and formula_2 in the Navier–Stokes equations, respectively. It is commonly used in geophysical phenomena in the oceans and atmosphere, where it characterizes the importance of Coriolis accelerations arising from planetary rotation. It is also known as the Kibel number.\n\nThe Rossby number (Ro and not R) is defined as:\n\nwhere \"U\" and \"L\" are, respectively, characteristic velocity and length scales of the phenomenon and \"f\" = 2 Ω sin φ is the Coriolis frequency, where Ω is the angular frequency of planetary rotation and φ the latitude. \n\nA small Rossby number signifies a system which is strongly affected by Coriolis forces, and a large Rossby number signifies a system in which inertial and centrifugal forces dominate. For example, in tornadoes, the Rossby number is large (≈ 10), in low-pressure systems it is low (≈ 0.1 – 1) and in oceanic systems it is of the order of unity, but depending on the phenomena can range over several orders of magnitude (≈ 10 – 10). As a result, in tornadoes the Coriolis force is negligible, and balance is between pressure and centrifugal forces (called \"cyclostrophic balance\"). Cyclostrophic balance also commonly occurs in the inner core of a tropical cyclone. In low-pressure systems, centrifugal force is negligible and balance is between Coriolis and pressure forces (called \"geostrophic balance\"). In the oceans all three forces are comparable (called \"cyclogeostrophic balance\"). For a figure showing spatial and temporal scales of motions in the atmosphere and oceans, see Kantha and Clayson. \n\nWhen the Rossby number is large (either because \"f\" is small, such as in the tropics and at lower latitudes; or because \"L\" is small, that is, for small-scale motions such as flow in a bathtub; or for large speeds), the effects of planetary rotation are unimportant and can be neglected. When the Rossby number is small, then the effects of planetary rotation are large and the net acceleration is comparably small allowing the use of the geostrophic approximation.\n\n\nFor more on numerical analysis and the role of the Rossby number, see:\nFor an historical account of Rossby's reception in the United States, see\n"}
{"id": "6589006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6589006", "title": "Rubber seed oil", "text": "Rubber seed oil\n\nRubber seed oil is oil extracted from the seeds of rubber trees. In the latex manufacturing process, rubber seeds are not historically collected and commercialized. Recent analysis shows that rubber seed oil contained the following fatty acids:\n\n\nIn Cambodia and other rubber manufacturing areas, rubber seeds are used to feed livestock. Although rubber seed is rich in nutrients, it also contains cyanogenic glycosides which will release prussic acid in the presence of enzymes or in slightly acidic conditions.\nOil from the rubber seed is also of commercial importance. Hitherto, rubber seed has largely been allowed to waste with very little used for raising root stock seedlings for propagation purposes. The useful properties of the rubber seed oil make it similar to well-known linseed and soybean oil. Rubber seed oil also could be used for the paint industry as a semidrying oil, in the manufacture of soap, for the production of linoleum and alkyd resin; in medicine as antimalaria oil; and in engineering as core binder for factice preparation, and the cake left after oil extraction is used in fertilizer preparation and as feed for cattle and poultry. \nThe potential of rubber wood as a source of timber is recognized in India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and Malaysia, with an increasing volume of sawn rubber wood used for furniture manufacturing and a variety of other applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "5701605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5701605", "title": "Scalloped margin dome", "text": "Scalloped margin dome\n\nA scalloped margin dome is a type of volcanic dome, found on Venus, that has experienced collapse and mass wasting such as landslides on its perimeter. The margins of these domes have headscarps or 'scallops' separated by ridges that are a consequence of adjoining scallops. Sometimes debris or slumping can be found at the bottom of these scarps or scattered many tens of kilometers away. Many examples show no debris at all. The center of these domes is often, but not always, a depression. There is another theory that the radial ridges of scalloped margin domes are volcanic dikes.\n\nDuring the first month of data from the \"Magellan\" spacecraft, the first of these features was found to the northeast of Alpha Regio, on Venus. It was one of the largest of these domes and therefore stood out. The strange feature was originally dubbed by the Magellan Project Science Team \"The Tick\", because the many radiating ridges resembled the legs of a tick. Its concavity was likely confused as domelike as a tick's body, instead of the actuality which is that it is a bowl-shaped depression. Through the first year of \"Magellan\" image data \"The Tick\" was thought to be a unique feature until an aide to the science team catalogued inconspicuous similar features all over Venus. This resulted in referring to the features as 'ticks' which was later changed to 'scalloped margin domes'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2159159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2159159", "title": "Shishir", "text": "Shishir\n\nIn the Hindu calendar Shishir is the Ritu or season related to winters and cold. It is the month of Magha and Phalguna or mid January to mid March in the calendar year. It is also one among the many names of the Hindu God Lord Vishnu, and appears in the Vishnu sahasranama (Thousand names of Vishnu), signifying \"913. sisirah — He Who rushed to render help. om sisiraya namah,\" and hence also a given name for boys. In context, the name also refers to His swift dash to protect His devotee Gajendra \"914. SisiraH — saSathi, athithvarayaa gathaH ithi. Goes with great speed. In protecting Gajendhra the Lord rushed to help dragging Garuda behind Him. SaSa means a rabbit which gets the name from SaSathi , moves fast.\"\n\nShishiratmaka is also given in the Shiva Saharasranama as one of the Names of Lord Shiva signifying His winter or cool aspect.\n\nRitucharya is the Ayurveda prescribed seasonal food and lifestyle regimen for each season. Shishir Ritucharya: It is almost same as Hemant Ritucharya. Person should eat more of sour, bitter food than normal consumption.\n\n"}
{"id": "18994087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994087", "title": "Sound", "text": "Sound\n\nIn physics, sound is a vibration that typically propagates as an audible wave of pressure, through a transmission medium such as a gas, liquid or solid.\n\nIn human physiology and psychology, sound is the \"reception\" of such waves and their \"perception\" by the brain. Humans can only hear sound waves as distinct pitches when the frequency lies between about 20 Hz and 20 kHz. Sound waves above 20 kHz are known as ultrasound and is not perceptible by humans. Sound waves below 20 Hz are known as infrasound. Different animal species have varying hearing ranges.\n\nAcoustics is the interdisciplinary science that deals with the study of mechanical waves in gases, liquids, and solids including vibration, sound, ultrasound, and infrasound. A scientist who works in the field of acoustics is an \"acoustician\", while someone working in the field of acoustical engineering may be called an \"acoustical engineer\". An audio engineer, on the other hand, is concerned with the recording, manipulation, mixing, and reproduction of sound.\n\nApplications of acoustics are found in almost all aspects of modern society, subdisciplines include aeroacoustics, audio signal processing, architectural acoustics, bioacoustics, electro-acoustics, environmental noise, musical acoustics, noise control, psychoacoustics, speech, ultrasound, underwater acoustics, and vibration.\n\nSound is defined as \"(a) Oscillation in pressure, stress, particle displacement, particle velocity, etc., propagated in a medium with internal forces (e.g., elastic or viscous), or the superposition of such propagated oscillation. (b) Auditory sensation evoked by the oscillation described in (a).\" Sound can be viewed as a wave motion in air or other elastic media. In this case, sound is a stimulus. Sound can also be viewed as an excitation of the hearing mechanism that results in the perception of sound. In this case, sound is a sensation.\n\nSound can propagate through a medium such as air, water and solids as longitudinal waves and also as a transverse wave in solids (see Longitudinal and transverse waves, below). The sound waves are generated by a sound source, such as the vibrating diaphragm of a stereo speaker. The sound source creates vibrations in the surrounding medium. As the source continues to vibrate the medium, the vibrations propagate away from the source at the speed of sound, thus forming the sound wave. At a fixed distance from the source, the pressure, velocity, and displacement of the medium vary in time. At an instant in time, the pressure, velocity, and displacement vary in space. Note that the particles of the medium do not travel with the sound wave. This is intuitively obvious for a solid, and the same is true for liquids and gases (that is, the vibrations of particles in the gas or liquid transport the vibrations, while the \"average\" position of the particles over time does not change). During propagation, waves can be reflected, refracted, or attenuated by the medium.\n\nThe behavior of sound propagation is generally affected by three things:\n\nWhen sound is moving through a medium that does not have constant physical properties, it may be refracted (either dispersed or focused).\n\nThe mechanical vibrations that can be interpreted as sound can travel through all forms of matter: gases, liquids, solids, and plasmas. The matter that supports the sound is called the medium. Sound cannot travel through a vacuum.\n\nSound is transmitted through gases, plasma, and liquids as longitudinal waves, also called compression waves. It requires a medium to propagate. Through solids, however, it can be transmitted as both longitudinal waves and transverse waves. Longitudinal sound waves are waves of alternating pressure deviations from the equilibrium pressure, causing local regions of compression and rarefaction, while transverse waves (in solids) are waves of alternating shear stress at right angle to the direction of propagation.\n\nSound waves may be \"viewed\" using parabolic mirrors and objects that produce sound.\n\nThe energy carried by an oscillating sound wave converts back and forth between the potential energy of the extra compression (in case of longitudinal waves) or lateral displacement strain (in case of transverse waves) of the matter, and the kinetic energy of the displacement velocity of particles of the medium.\n\nAlthough there are many complexities relating to the transmission of sounds, at the point of reception (i.e. the ears), sound is readily dividable into two simple elements: pressure and time. These fundamental elements form the basis of all sound waves. They can be used to describe, in absolute terms, every sound we hear.\n\nIn order to understand the sound more fully, a complex wave such as the one shown in a blue background on the right of this text, is usually separated into its component parts, which are a combination of various sound wave frequencies (and noise).\n\nSound waves are often simplified to a description in terms of sinusoidal plane waves, which are characterized by these generic properties:\n\nSound that is perceptible by humans has frequencies from about 20 Hz to 20,000 Hz. In air at standard temperature and pressure, the corresponding wavelengths of sound waves range from 17 m to 17 mm.\nSometimes speed and direction are combined as a velocity vector; wave number and direction are combined as a wave vector.\n\nTransverse waves, also known as shear waves, have the additional property, \"polarization\", and are not a characteristic of sound waves.\n\nThe speed of sound depends on the medium the waves pass through, and is a fundamental property of the material. The first significant effort towards measurement of the speed of sound was made by Isaac Newton. He believed the speed of sound in a particular substance was equal to the square root of the pressure acting on it divided by its density:\n\nThis was later proven wrong when found to incorrectly derive the speed. The French mathematician Laplace corrected the formula by deducing that the phenomenon of sound travelling is not isothermal, as believed by Newton, but adiabatic. He added another factor to the equation—\"gamma\"—and multiplied\nformula_2\nby\nformula_3,\nthus coming up with the equation\nformula_4.\nSince\nformula_5,\nthe final equation came up to be\nformula_6,\nwhich is also known as the Newton–Laplace equation. In this equation, \"K\" is the elastic bulk modulus, \"c\" is the velocity of sound, and formula_7 is the density. Thus, the speed of sound is proportional to the square root of the ratio of the bulk modulus of the medium to its density.\n\nThose physical properties and the speed of sound change with ambient conditions. For example, the speed of sound in gases depends on temperature. In air at sea level, the speed of sound is approximately using the formula . In fresh water, also at 20 °C, the speed of sound is approximately . In steel, the speed of sound is about . The speed of sound is also slightly sensitive, being subject to a second-order anharmonic effect, to the sound amplitude, which means there are non-linear propagation effects, such as the production of harmonics and mixed tones not present in the original sound (see parametric array).\n\nIf relativistic effects are important, the speed of sound is calculated from the relativistic Euler equations.\n\nA distinct use of the term \"sound\" from its use in physics is that in physiology and psychology, where the term refers to the subject of \"perception\" by the brain. The field of psychoacoustics is dedicated to such studies. Webster's 1936 dictionary defined sound as: \"1. The sensation of hearing, that which is heard; specif.: a. Psychophysics. Sensation due to stimulation of the auditory nerves and auditory centers of the brain, usually by vibrations transmitted in a material medium, commonly air, affecting the organ of hearing. b. Physics. Vibrational energy which occasions such a sensation. Sound is propagated by progressive longitudinal vibratory disturbances (sound waves).\" This means that the correct response to the question: \"if a tree falls in the forest with no one to hear it fall, does it make a sound?\" is \"yes\", and \"no\", dependent on whether being answered using the physical, or the psychophysical definition, respectively.\n\nThe physical reception of sound in any hearing organism is limited to a range of frequencies. Humans normally hear sound frequencies between approximately 20 Hz and 20,000 Hz (20 kHz), The upper limit decreases with age. Sometimes \"sound\" refers to only those vibrations with frequencies that are within the hearing range for humans or sometimes it relates to a particular animal. Other species have different ranges of hearing. For example, dogs can perceive vibrations higher than 20 kHz.\n\nAs a signal perceived by one of the major senses, sound is used by many species for detecting danger, navigation, predation, and communication. Earth's atmosphere, water, and virtually any physical phenomenon, such as fire, rain, wind, surf, or earthquake, produces (and is characterized by) its unique sounds. Many species, such as frogs, birds, marine and terrestrial mammals, have also developed special organs to produce sound. In some species, these produce song and speech. Furthermore, humans have developed culture and technology (such as music, telephone and radio) that allows them to generate, record, transmit, and broadcast sound.\n\nNoise is a term often used to refer to an unwanted sound. In science and engineering, noise is an undesirable component that obscures a wanted signal. However, in sound perception it can often be used to identify the source of a sound and is an important component of timbre perception (see above).\n\nSoundscape is the component of the acoustic environment that can be perceived by humans. The acoustic environment is the combination of all sounds (whether audible to humans or not) within a given area as modified by the environment and understood by people, in context of the surrounding environment.\n\nThere are, historically, six experimentally separable ways in which sound waves are analysed. They are: pitch, duration, loudness, timbre, sonic texture and spatial location. Some of these terms have a standardised definition (for instance in the ANSI Acoustical Terminology ANSI/ASA S1.1-2013). More recent approaches have also considered temporal envelope and temporal fine structure as perceptually relevant analyses.\n\nPitch is perceived as how \"low\" or \"high\" a sound is and represents the cyclic, repetitive nature of the vibrations that make up sound. For simple sounds, pitch relates to the frequency of the slowest vibration in the sound (called the fundamental harmonic). In the case of complex sounds, pitch perception can vary. Sometimes individuals identify different pitches for the same sound, based on their personal experience of particular sound patterns. Selection of a particular pitch is determined by pre-conscious examination of vibrations, including their frequencies and the balance between them. Specific attention is given to recognising potential harmonics. Every sound is placed on a pitch continuum from low to high. For example: white noise (random noise spread evenly across all frequencies) sounds higher in pitch than pink noise (random noise spread evenly across octaves) as white noise has more high frequency content. Figure 1 shows an example of pitch recognition. During the listening process, each sound is analysed for a repeating pattern (See Figure 1: orange arrows) and the results forwarded to the auditory cortex as a single pitch of a certain height (octave) and chroma (note name).\n\nDuration is perceived as how \"long\" or \"short\" a sound is and relates to onset and offset signals created by nerve responses to sounds. The duration of a sound usually lasts from the time the sound is first noticed until the sound is identified as having changed or ceased. Sometimes this is not directly related to the physical duration of a sound. For example; in a noisy environment, gapped sounds (sounds that stop and start) can sound as if they are continuous because the offset messages are missed owing to disruptions from noises in the same general bandwidth. This can be of great benefit in understanding distorted messages such as radio signals that suffer from interference, as (owing to this effect) the message is heard as if it was continuous. Figure 2 gives an example of duration identification. When a new sound is noticed (see Figure 2, Green arrows), a sound onset message is sent to the auditory cortex. When the repeating pattern is missed, a sound offset messages is sent.\n\nLoudness is perceived as how \"loud\" or \"soft\" a sound is and relates to the totalled number of auditory nerve stimulations over short cyclic time periods, most likely over the duration of theta wave cycles. This means that at short durations, a very short sound can sound softer than a longer sound even though they are presented at the same intensity level. Past around 200 ms this is no longer the case and the duration of the sound no longer affects the apparent loudness of the sound. Figure 3 gives an impression of how loudness information is summed over a period of about 200 ms before being sent to the auditory cortex. Louder signals create a greater 'push' on the Basilar membrane and thus stimulate more nerves, creating a stronger loudness signal. A more complex signal also creates more nerve firings and so sounds louder (for the same wave amplitude) than a simpler sound, such as a sine wave.\n\nTimbre is perceived as the quality of different sounds (e.g. the thud of a fallen rock, the whir of a drill, the tone of a musical instrument or the quality of a voice) and represents the pre-conscious allocation of a sonic identity to a sound (e.g. “it’s an oboe!\"). This identity is based on information gained from frequency transients, noisiness, unsteadiness, perceived pitch and the spread and intensity of overtones in the sound over an extended time frame. The way a sound changes over time (see figure 4) provides most of the information for timbre identification. Even though a small section of the wave form from each instrument looks very similar (see the expanded sections indicated by the orange arrows in figure 4), differences in changes over time between the clarinet and the piano are evident in both loudness and harmonic content. Less noticeable are the different noises heard, such as air hisses for the clarinet and hammer strikes for the piano.\nSonic texture relates to the number of sound sources and the interaction between them. The word 'texture', in this context, relates to the cognitive separation of auditory objects. In music, texture is often referred to as the difference between unison, polyphony and homophony, but it can also relate (for example) to a busy cafe; a sound which might be referred to as 'cacophony'. However texture refers to more than this. The texture of an orchestral piece is very different to the texture of a brass quintet because of the different numbers of players. The texture of a market place is very different to a school hall because of the differences in the various sound sources.\n\nSpatial location (see: Sound localization) represents the cognitive placement of a sound in an environmental context; including the placement of a sound on both the horizontal and vertical plane, the distance from the sound source and the characteristics of the sonic environment. In a thick texture, it is possible to identify multiple sound sources using a combination of spatial location and timbre identification. It is the main reason why we can pick the sound of an oboe in an orchestra and the words of a single person at a cocktail party.\n\nSound pressure is the difference, in a given medium, between average local pressure and the pressure in the sound wave. A square of this difference (i.e., a square of the deviation from the equilibrium pressure) is usually averaged over time and/or space, and a square root of this average provides a root mean square (RMS) value. For example, 1 Pa RMS sound pressure (94 dBSPL) in atmospheric air implies that the actual pressure in the sound wave oscillates between (1 atm formula_8 Pa) and (1 atm formula_9 Pa), that is between 101323.6 and 101326.4 Pa.\nAs the human ear can detect sounds with a wide range of amplitudes, sound pressure is often measured as a level on a logarithmic decibel scale. The sound pressure level (SPL) or \"L\" is defined as\n\nSince the human ear does not have a flat spectral response, sound pressures are often frequency weighted so that the measured level matches perceived levels more closely. The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) has defined several weighting schemes. A-weighting attempts to match the response of the human ear to noise and A-weighted sound pressure levels are labeled dBA. C-weighting is used to measure peak levels.\n\nUltrasound is sound waves with frequencies higher than the upper audible limit of human hearing. Ultrasound is not different from \"normal\" (audible) sound in its physical properties, except in that humans cannot hear it. Ultrasound devices operate with frequencies from 20 kHz up to several gigahertz.\n\nUltrasound is commonly used for medical diagnostics such as sonograms.\n\nInfrasound is sound waves with frequencies lower than 20 Hz. Although sounds of such low frequency are too low for humans to hear, whales, elephants and other animals can detect infrasound and use it to communicate. It can be used to detect volcanic eruptions and is used in some types of music.\n\n"}
{"id": "4750427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750427", "title": "Spring Day", "text": "Spring Day\n\nSpring Day is a holiday marking the coming of the spring season, which takes place in different countries, on varying dates.\n\nAlbania celebrates the lunar Spring Day, the so-called \"Summer Day\" (), on 14 March, and in 2004 it became a national holiday. It is an old pagan practice, particularly popular in the city of Elbasan, Central Albania.\n\nAccording to some sources, Dita e Verës derives from the Arbëreshë, an Albanian community that lives in Italy since the fifteenth century. On 14 March, the Arbëreshë of the Italian coast, collect a tuft of grass roots and soil, bringing it home to commemorate the anniversary of their emigration from Albania. In fact, some sources date back this celebration to the ancient Illyria. At that time, the feast was celebrated on 1 March, which according to the Julian calendar, corresponded to the first day of the year.\n\nPilgrimages were made to the highest peaks in the Albanian mountains to be as close as possible to the Sun God and pray for the goodness and prosperity of the new year. The great fire crossed by men and young people symbolized the end of winter. Instead, wreaths and garlands on the doors of the houses wished good luck. The purity of the celebration has weakened over the centuries but came to this day thanks to the tradition preserved in the city of Elbasan.\n\nThe ritual of the Dita e Verës begins on the previous day with the preparation of sweets: the revani and ballakume, the blended butter, sugar, corn flour and egg yolks cooked in a wood oven.\nDuring the evening ballakume, dried figs, walnuts, turkey legs, boiled eggs, simite (a typical sandwich of the city) are distributed to members of the family. The oldest woman of the house remains awake at night and goes from room to room to put down grass on the cushions of couples, young people and children, a ritual that symbolizes the regeneration and quickening.\n\nOn the morning of 14 March, the elderly leave the door open as a sign of generosity, a pitcher filled with fresh water and take home a clump of green grass. The youngest fertilizes the orange and olive trees, but the smaller ones are the first to make the \"lucky\" visits to neighbors and relatives who give them turkey legs, dried figs and nuts. Finally lunch on 14 March, should be eaten outdoors in the company of friends and relatives.\n\nEstonia celebrates Spring Day on 1 May.\n\nIran celebrates Spring day at 21 March as its only new year celebration. This national celebration is called Nowruz in Iran.\n\nBangladesh celebrates Spring day on 13 February as the first of the month of Falgun. It is the beginning of the Boshonto, the Spring season for Bengalis.\n\nArgentina celebrates the beginning of spring, conventionally, on 21 September, one or two days before the actual spring equinox. This day also marks Student's Day.\n\nThough this is not a work-free public holiday, it coincides with Student's Day, which is a no-school day for students on all the levels of the education system. The holiday is therefore mostly observed and dominated by teenagers and young adults, which massively take on public parks, beaches and other outdoor venues in the larger cities, and enjoy sports or picnics.\n\nLocal administrations usually offer the public a number of entertainment shows, such as free rock concerts. In later years security operations have been staged to avoid incidents such as fights and vandalism, as well as controls to curb the consumption of alcoholic beverages.\n\nParaguay celebrates the beginning of spring on September 21st, one or two days before the actual spring equinox. This day also marks Youth Day.\n\nUruguay celebrates the beginning of spring, on 21 September, one or two days before the actual spring equinox.\n\nBolivia celebrates the beginning of spring, on 21 September, it is also Student's day and \"día del amor\", on this day youth will send cards, chocolates and flowers to their friends, mates, or lovers.\n\nSouth Africa Celebrates spring Day on the 1 September. Spring day traditions in South Africa range from having a traditional braai to shaving your head and beard. In many townships, children celebrate Spring Day by spraying each other with water. However, in some urban settlements everyone participates.\n"}
{"id": "26345614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26345614", "title": "Stil de grain yellow", "text": "Stil de grain yellow\n\nStil de grain yellow is a pigment traditionally derived from unripe buckthorn berries. An archaic name for this color, used in the 17th century, is pinke.\n\nIt is also known as sap green, although in contemporary art supplies the term sap green often indicates a mixture intending to resemble the traditional Sap Green or Stil de grain yellow. Contemporary oil colors often use coal tar lakes as a substitute. Golden Fluid Acrylics have included 'sap green' in their new line of 'historical colors'. It is a mixture consisting of: synthetic iron oxide, nickel complex azo, brominated and chlorinated copper phthalocyanine and nearly pure amorphous carbon.\n\nTraditional Sap Green is made both from ripe and unripe buckthorn berries, and prepared in different ways. Berry harvest time, varietal, preparation method and time period of use have a lot to do with the common name used to refer to that particular hue, color, recipe or chemical composition.\n\nThe \"unripe buckthorn berries\" are also called Rhamni Immaturi. The color it produces is dark brown in its dense form, and turns to a bright yellow in a thin layer. It has a low lightfastness rating of about 4.\n\nSap green, ripe buckthorn berry, is made from ripe berries that are also called Rhamni Maturi, species \"Rhamnus\", grown in the Near East, although the color can also be made from European varieties of this berry, such as those from \"Avignon\" or \"Persian\" Berry. This version is also commonly referred to as yellow madder, stil de grain, yellow lake pigment, Dutch pink, brown pink and English pink. This color is not permanent and was often used for decorative painting.\n\nThis color is also known as Persian Berries Lake, yellow berries and buckthorn berries. These names refer to the entire color family, whose principal coloring agent is \"rhamnetin\", C16H12O7. Extracting the coloring principle through boiling water, allows one to add different mordants, such as alum or soda, each resulting in a different hue of this color.\n\nMost often in when called sap green the color is in the form of a dyestuff, either from direct berry juice of that of a lake, precipitated with alum. In lake form, this color is considered to fade rapidly.\n\nIt was enjoyed widely in the 18th century in France and England.\n\nFor use in medieval manuscripts, the color was sold in dried sheep bladders in a liquid form that resembled a dense syrup, instead of being dried and sold as powder.\n\nAlthough it is used widely by name, it is rare to find a pre-made fine artist product that contains this pure pigment. Berries, ripe or unripe, as well as different versions of the lake are obtainable in powdered pigment form, although it is costly compared to its substitutes. It is fugitive and therefore not ideally suited for oil color, but has survived well in manuscript form due to the natural protections from light and moisture that a book offers.\n\n\"Stil de grain yellow\" is a yellow pigment made from the yellow berries (Persian berries) of the Italian Buckthorn bush, species \"Rhamnus saxatalis\".\n\nThe first recorded use of \"pinke\" as a color name in English for this yellow pigment was in 1598. The names \"stil de grain yellow\" and \"yellow madder\" came into use as the name for this yellow pigment in the early to mid-18th century, replacing the former name \"pinke\".\n\nThe source of this color is: ISCC-NBS Dictionary of Color Names (1955)--Color Sample of Stil de Grain Yellow (color sample #83).\n\nDyeing\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14533545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14533545", "title": "Summer of 1976 (Europe)", "text": "Summer of 1976 (Europe)\n\nThe summer of 1976 was considered to be one of the hottest summers in Europe (and especially the United Kingdom ) within recent memory. A large high-pressure area dominated most of Europe for all of the summer months. The pressure system moved into place in late May 1976 and remained until the first traces of rain were recorded on 27 August. Rainfall throughout the July–August period was down by half the annual average. During this spell of hot weather temperatures exceeded 32 °C (89.6 °F) at several weather stations within the United Kingdom every day and the town of Cheltenham had eleven, including seven successive days from 1 July - recording 35.9 °C (96.6 °F) on 3 July. \n\nFor the entire period much of Europe was bathed in continual sunshine with the United Kingdom seeing an average of more than 14 hours of sunshine per day. 1976 was dubbed \"The year of the Ladybird\" in that country due to the rise in the mass numbers of ladybirds brought on by the long hot period.\n\n\"\"The long hot summer of 1976 which eventually ended in September of that year, was the culmination of a 16-week dry spell - the longest recorded over England and Wales since 1727. \"Quote From Met Office\"\n\nThe summer of 1976 is by now a firmly established reference point for discussion in the UK of contemporary hot spells.\n"}
{"id": "2371378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2371378", "title": "Surroundings", "text": "Surroundings\n\nSurroundings are the area around a given physical or geographical point or place. The exact definition depends on the field. Surroundings can also be used in geography (when it is more precisely known as vicinity, or vicinage) and mathematics, as well as philosophy, with the literal or metaphorically extended definition.\n\nIn thermodynamics, the term (and its synonym, environment) is used in a more restricted sense, meaning everything outside the thermodynamic system. Often, the simplifying assumptions are that energy and matter may move freely within the surroundings, and that the surroundings have a uniform composition.\n\n"}
{"id": "24325593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24325593", "title": "Taraxacum kok-saghyz", "text": "Taraxacum kok-saghyz\n\nTaraxacum kok-saghyz, often abbreviated as TKS and commonly referred to as the Kazakh dandelion, rubber root, or Russian dandelion, is a species of dandelion native to Kazakhstan that is notable for its production of high quality rubber. \"T. kok-saghyz\" was discovered in Kazakhstan in 1932 by the Soviet Union in an effort to find a domestic source of rubber.\n\n\"Kok-saghyz\" is derived from the Kazakh \"kök-sağız\" (көк-сағыз), with \"kök\" meaning root or tuber and \"saghyz\" meaning rubber or gum. Its latex was traditionally used as a kind of chewing gum.\n\n\"Taraxacum kok-saghyz\" is a perennial plant with a yellow composite flower characteristic of the \"Taraxacum\" genus. Each flower head may be approximately one inch in diameter and be made up for 50 to 90 florets. Plants may contain 25 to 50 leaves arranged in one or more rosettes at the upper end of the root. \"Taraxacum kok-saghyz\" can be differentiated from the common dandelion (\"Taraxacum officinale\") by its generally smaller, grayish green leaves and hornlike structures on the bracts surrounding the bud. Flowers are hermaphrodite, insect-pollinated (entomophilous) and are on stalks that reach about a foot in height. \"Taraxacum kok-saghyz\" is usually in flower from May through June, with seeds ripening from June through July.\n\nIt is a diploid species that reproduces sexually, and produces good pollen. Another species, a triploid apomict that also has horned bracts and produces rubber, \"T. brevicorniculatum\" Korol. has frequently been misidentified as \"T. kok-saghyz\".\n\n\"Taraxacum kok-saghyz\" does best in loose, well-drained soils with high moisture retention and a pH between 5.5 and 8.5, in full or nearly-full sun.\n\n\"Taraxacum kok-saghyz\" was cultivated on a large scale in the Soviet Union between 1931 and 1950, as well as in the United States, the UK, Germany, Sweden and Spain during World War II as an emergency source of rubber when supplies of rubber from \"Hevea brasiliensis\" in Southeast Asia were threatened. During this time period, the highest yields achieved by the U.S. were 110 kg of rubber per hectare, while the USSR achieved yields of 200 kg of rubber per hectare. With the conclusion of World War II and the return of affordable \"Hevea brasiliensis\" rubber (which has 8-10 times the yield), the majority of \"T. kok-saghyz\" programs were discontinued.\n\nThere has been a resurgence of attention on \"T. kok-saghyz\" due to allergic reactions to \"Hevea\" rubber used in medical devices, and to shortcomings of the \"Hevea brasiliensis\" rubber supply. One threat to \"Hevea brasiliensis\" rubber production is the South American Leaf Blight (SALB), which has afflicted conventional rubber production in South America since 1934. This blight may spread to the \"Hevea brasiliensis\" trees in Southeast Asia, which are genetically very similar to each other and those of South America. Furthermore, land used for rubber production is being converted to palm oil plantations in order to produce biofuel, and labor costs reduce the profitability of \"Hevea brasiliensis\" plantations, as each tree must be manually tapped in order to harvest its latex. Rising oil prices limit the economic viability of synthetic rubbers, and natural rubber often cannot be pragmatically replaced by a synthetic equivalent.\n\n\"Taraxacum kok-saghyz\" cultivars that are easier to cultivate and produce more and better rubber are being developed as part of a large research project at many institutions.\n\nInulin produced by \"T. kok-saghyz\" is a sugar that could be used in non-food applications or be turned into bioethanol through fermentation. The remaining plant biomass could be used to produce biogas.\n\n"}
{"id": "12533306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12533306", "title": "Volcanic dam", "text": "Volcanic dam\n\nA volcanic dam is a type of natural dam produced directly or indirectly by volcanism, which holds or temporarily restricts the flow of surface water in existing streams, like a man-made dam. There are two main types of volcanic dams, those created by the flow of molten lava, and those created by the primary or secondary deposition of pyroclastic material and debris. This classification generally excludes other, often larger and longer lived dam-type geologic features, separately termed crater lakes, although these volcanic centers may be associated with the source of material for volcanic dams, and the lowest portion of its confining rim may be considered as such a dam, especially if the lake level within the crater is relatively high.\n\nVolcanic dams generally occur worldwide, in association with former and active volcanic provinces, and are known to have existed in the geologic record, in historic times and occur in the present day. Their removal or failure is similarly recorded. The longevity, and extent varies widely, having periods ranging from a few days, weeks or years to several hundred thousand years or more, and dimensions ranging from a few meters to hundreds, to several thousand.\n\nThe emplacement, internal structure, distribution and longevity of such dams can be related variously to the amount, rapidity and duration of (primary) geothermal energy released, and the rock material made available; other considerations include the rock types produced, their physical and toughness characteristics, and their various modes of deposition. Depositional modes include gravity flow of molten lava at the surface, gravity flow or fall of pyroclastics through the air, as well as the redistribution and transportation of those materials by gravity and water.\n\nLava dams are formed by lava flowing or spilling into a river valley in sufficient quantity and height to temporarily overcome the explosive nature (steam) of its contact with water, and the erosive force of flowing water to remove it. The latter depends on the quantity of water flow and stream gradient. The lava may flow during numerous successive or repetitive eruptions and may emanate from single or numerous vents or fissures. Lava of this nature, like basalt, is usually associated with less explosive eruptions; more viscous lavas with lower mafic content, like dacites and rhyolites, can also flow, but tend to be more closely associated with eruptions of greater explosiveness and the formation of pyroclastics.\n\nOnce initially established, continued lava flow creates a steeper upstream face as it battles the rising water, but with most lava flowing unimpeded downstream covering the now-dried river bed and its alluvial sediments, sometimes for miles. Thus emplaced, the shape of a lava dam resembles an elongated blob, wedged in the valley bottom. At the same time, the water continues to flow, the lake continues to rise and accumulate sediment, which previously had migrated unimpeded downstream. Sediment filling, over-topping, downward erosion, waterfalls and under-cutting inevitably follow, unless an alternative outlet is established, for water and sediment elsewhere in the drainage.\n\nLarge examples of lava dams from the geologic record include those repeatedly developed from the western side of the Grand Canyon, with the largest remnant now termed Prospect Dam, and in several locations within the Snake River drainage. The former 'Lake Idaho', which existed for more than 6.5 million years, filled the western portion of the behind such a structure and created the western section of the Snake River Plain, and accumulated 4000 ft of lake sediments. Other locations include near American Falls, Idaho, and numerous others. Many of these were overtopped, washed out, or skirted by the outburst flood originating from ancestral Lake Bonneville.\n\nMany other examples exist globally including, Caburgua Lake in Chile, Mývatn in Iceland and Lake Reporoa in New Zealand. Examples in western Canada and others in northwestern United States include, Lava Lake and The Barrier, which still impounds Garibaldi Lake, and Lava Butte.\n\nPyroclastic dams are created in an existing drainage either by their direct emplacement or by the accumulation of widely variable pyroclastic particles, broadly termed tephra. Unlike lava dams, which are formed by coherent, molten liquid gravity surface flow, filling the valley bottom directly and solidifying rapidly from the outside inward, pyroclastic dams are produced by less coherent airborne gravity currents or falls of tephra particles from the atmosphere, which solidify on the surface more slowly from the inner portion outward; pyroclastics are also deposited both in the valley bottom and widely distributed on the adjacent slopes. Their airborne nature is less restricted to the immediate drainage and they may roil over drainage boundaries; their particulate components allow for continued redistribution after initial placement by gravity and water. The explosiveness of pyroclastic eruptions, both laterally and vertically, range from fiery surges, to hot flows, to warm falls of tephra; the former may tend to emplace a dam directly while the latter tends to enhance placement or provide additional material. Unless violently expelled and generally speaking, larger sized tephra falls closest to the crater and smaller tephra landing farther away, with its distribution more highly influenced by prevailing wind velocity and direction.\n\nOnce initially established, a pyroclastic dam's continued longevity remains a balance between its slowly consolidating hardness and toughness, and the amount and velocity of flowing water's erosive capacity to remove it from its outset. Unconsolidated tephra is quickly moved by precipitation and flowing water in drainages, at times creating a lahar. Upstream of the dam this material would rapidly accumulate to fill the lake, and downstream it would tend to erode its slopes and base. The often rapid accumulation of unconsolidated pyroclastic material on steep sideslopes tends to be inherently unstable over time; pyroclastic dams may be emplaced by the landsliding of such material into rivers and streams. Pyroclastic material, given sufficient time to consolidate or 'weld' into hard rock, produce assemblages variously classified as ignimbrites, variously brecciated or agglomerated, along with various types of tuffs and volcanic ash, and are mostly of felsic composition.\n\nWhile evidence of pyroclastic dams occur within the geologic record, they are best known and studied in relation to recent and current volcanic eruptions. Examples worldwide include associations with El Chichon in Mexico, and the Karymsky Volcano in Russia. The caldera lake associated with Taal Volcano, which was previously open to the East China Sea, was permanently closed by a pyroclastic dam during the 1749 eruption, and remains in equilibrium at a higher level to this day, while the pyroclastic dam comprising the low rim of crater Lake Nyos in Cameroon is considered less stable.\n\nLike all forms of natural dams, the erosion or failure of volcanic dams can produce catastrophic floods, debris flows and associated landslides, depending on the size of the impounded lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "46802192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46802192", "title": "Water Science and Technology", "text": "Water Science and Technology\n\nWater Science and Technology is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering diverse aspects of the management of water quality. It was established in 1969 and is published by IWA Publishing. The editor-in-chief is Wolfgang Rauch (University of Innsbruck).\n\n\"Water Science and Technology\" publishes research on the science and technology of wastewater treatment and water quality management. This includes management of polluting and hazardous waste, the effects and impact of pollution on bodies of water and the policy and strategy of water quality and reuse.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Science Citation Index Expanded, Current Contents/Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences, Current Contents/Engineering, Computing & Technology, BIOSIS Previews, Elsevier Biobase, and Scopus.\n"}
