{"id": "23151132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23151132", "title": "A Plain Introduction to the Criticism of the New Testament", "text": "A Plain Introduction to the Criticism of the New Testament\n\nA Plain Introduction to the Criticism of the New Testament: For the Use of Biblical Students is one of the books of Frederick Henry Ambrose Scrivener (1813–1891), biblical scholar and textual critic. In this book Scrivener listed over 3,000 Greek manuscripts of the New Testament, as well as manuscripts of early versions. It was used by Gregory for further work.\n\nThe book was published in four editions. The first edition, published in 1861, contained 506 pages. The second edition (1874) was expanded into 626 pages; the third into 751 pages; and the fourth into 874 pages. Two first editions were issued in one volume; in the third edition the material was divided into two volumes, with an increased number of chapters in each. The first volume was edited in 1883, the second in 1887. The fourth edition was also issued in two volumes (1894). The fourth edition of the book was reprinted in 2005 by Elibron Classics.\n\nThe text of the first edition was divided into nine chapters and three \"Indices\" were added at the end (pp. 465–490). All plates were placed at the end of book (after \"Indices\"). The main part of the work are descriptions of the manuscripts. Scrivener concentrated his attention on the most important manuscripts (especially five larger uncial codices). The later cursive manuscripts were too numerous to be minutely described as per the uncials. Scrivener described them with all possible brevity, dwelling only on a few which presented points of special interest and used a system of certain abbreviations. Lists of this abbreviations was included just before the Catalogue of cursive manuscripts. Examples of abbreviations, include: \n\nIn every next edition of the \"Plain Introduction\" this system of abbreviations was expanded (e.g. Αναγ., \"Argent.\", etc.). At the end of lists the manuscripts are described more shortly, in two columns, only numbers of the manuscripts, with the corresponding number of other system of catalogization (Scholz):\n\nIn the preface to the first edition, the editor announced: \n\nThe following pages are chiefly designed for the use of those who have no previous knowledge of the Textual Criticism of the New Testament; but since the Author has endeavoured to embody in them the results of very recent investigations, he hopes that they may prove of service to more advanced students. He asks the reader's indulgence for the annexed list of \"Addenda et Corrigenda\", both by reason of the peculiar character of his work, and the remoteness of West Cornwall from Public Libraries. He might easily have suppressed the greater part of them, but that he has honestly tried to be accurate, and sees no cause to be ashamed of what Person has well called \"the common lot of authorship.\" He has only to add that he has not consciously borrowed from other writers without due acknowledgement, and to return his best thanks to the Rev. H. O. Coxe for important aid in the Bodleian, and to Henry Bradshaw Esq., Fellow of King's College, for valuable instruction respecting manuscripts in the University Library at Cambridge.\nIn 1873 Dean Burgon in \"The Guardian\" published several articles with some suggestions, corrections, and encouragement for preparing the second edition of \"Plain Introduction\". Burgon gave a photograph of the Codex Basilensis for the sake of the next edition (the facsimile from the first edition was a poor quality).\n\nThe second edition was published in 1874. The number of chapters was still the same, but they were expanded (especially chapter II and IX). Many corrections to the third section of the second chapter were made after suggestions of: H. Bradshaw, Hort, Vansittart, Kelly, and Burgon. In preface to the first edition, the editor announced:\nThe first edition of this work, published in 1861, was received so favourably that the author has felt bound to bestow his utmost care upon a minute and thorough revision of his book, in the hope of bringing up the information it contains to the existing state of knowledge. In this endeavour he has been assisted as well by Canon Lightfoot, to whom he is indebted for that section of the third chapter which treats of Egyptian versions of the New Testament (pp. 319-357), as also by much unsought for and most welcome help, especially on the part of those scholars who are named in p. 164, note. Without wishing to speak harshly of writers who are not very scrupulous in such matters, he has always thought it became him to borrow from no quarter without making a full and frank avowal of the fact. The author will be much rejoiced if this new edition shall be judged not less worthy than its predecessor to become a text book in Universities and Theological Celleges.\nIn August, 1874, Ezra Abbot sent to Scrivener a letter: the rough draught of which covered forty odd pages, devoted to the correction of apparent errors and a statement of overlooked facts in the first edition of the \"Plain Introduction\". The letter came too late to be used in preparing the body of the second edition of Scrivener's work. Abbot's studies largely argumented the number of suggestions, particularly in those portions of the book devoted to describing the extant manuscripts. They were accumulated in great part to the older and well-known authorities - such as Griesbach, Matthaei, Scholz (particularly his work \"Biblisch-kritische Reise\", Leipzig 1823), Bianchini, Montfaucon, Silvestre, Bandini, Laubecius, and Zaeagni. Part of suggestions were a result of Abbott's studies of recent edited Catalogues of the ancient Greek Manuscripts held in the British Museum, Bodleian Library, Oxford Catalogues, Kitchin's Catalogue of the manuscripts in the Library of Christ Church College (Oxrofd, 1867). Abbott added numerous references to facsimile editions.\n\nIn 1885 J. Rendel Harris, together with Abbot, prepared the similar work as the first unpublished work of Abbot, nine years earlier. It was published under the title: \"Notes on Scriveners' \"Plain introduction to the criticism of the New Testament,\" 3rd edition\", in which they proposed corrections. Example of corrections:\n\nThe third edition was issued into two volumes, with an increase of chapters in each (XIV + XII).\n\nThe third edition was prepared under great disadvantage. Scrivener after adding 125 pages to his book had an attack of paralysis, as result his work was not wholly conducted upon the same high level as his previous publications. The framework of the second edition was originally adopted; and the new additional material was only added to the almost unchanged material.\n\nThe fourth and the last edition of \"Plain Introduction\" was prepared and edited posthumously by Edward Miller (1825–1901). The book was edited by George Bell & Sons. It contains 15 plates with the texts of 40 manuscripts in facsimile (the 1st edition had 12 plates with 36 manuscripts). Some facsimiles were replaced. Instead of 2,094 manuscripts, as recorded in the third edition under six classes, no less than 3,791 were recorded in this edition, an increase of 236 beyond the 3,555 of Gregory, without counting the numerous vacant places which had been filled inp.\n\nMost of the accounts of ancient versions were rewritten by distinguished scholars, who were leaders in their several departments. The early part of Volume I was enriched from the admirable book on “Greek and Latin Palaeography”, by Edward Maunde Thompson. Many corrections suggested by eminent scholars were introduced in different places throughout the book. H. J. White rewrote the chapter on Latin versions. G. H. Gwilliam, editor of the Peshitta, helped to improve the passages on the Peshitta and the Curetonian Version. H. Deane made an additions to the treatment of the Harkleian Version. A. C. Headlam made a revision of the long chapter on the Egyptian versions; F. C. Conybeare, rewrote the sections on the Armenian and Georgian versions; Margoliouth rewrote the sections on the Arabic and Ethiopic versions; J. M. Bebb rewrote the section on the Slavonic version; James W. Bright rewrote the section on the Anglo-Saxon Version.\n\n\n\nEdward Miller, the editor of the 4th edition, in 1886 estimated the 3rd edition:\n\nThe labour spent by Dr. Scrivener upon Textual Criticism is well known from his admirable Introduction to the Science, a handbook which leaves hardly anything, if anything, to be desired.\nEberhard Nestle, editor of Novum Testamentum Graece, wrote in 1901:\n\nScrivener have rendered great service in the way of collating manuscripts, (...) as well as Gregory in Germany has also catalogued them.\nGregory, another textual critic, in his \"Textkritik des Neuen Testaments\" (1900–1909) very often cited work of Scrivener, but after Minuscule 449 he used different way of numbering for the manuscripts (Scrivener 450 = Gregory 581, Scrivener 451 = Gregory 582). \n\"A Plain Introduction...\" was also used by Hermann von Soden in his \"Schriften...\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50341580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50341580", "title": "Adil Asadov", "text": "Adil Asadov\n\nAdil Asadov - (Azerbaijani: Adil İsgəndər oğlu Əsədov) is an Azerbaijani philosopher, currently head of the department at Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences and President of Association of Philosophical Enlightenment.\n\nAdil Asadov was born on October 1, 1958 in Guba, Azerbaijan SSR, USSR. In 1975 he finished Guba boarding school and in 1980 graduated from Azerbaijan University of Architecture and Construction.In 1986 he was admitted to the Aspirantura (postgraduate school) in Philosophy at the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, Institute of Philosophy and Law. He defended his PhD (Kandidat nauk) thesis titled “Historical types of thinking and engineering activity” in 1989. After completing his postdoctoral research he successfully defended a thesis titled The dynamics of the types of thinking in the context of the system \"society and nature\"” in 1994. In 2005 he founded the Association of Philosophical Enlightenment.\nCurrently, he is head of the department at the Institute of Philosophy, the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, President of the Association of Philosophical Enlightenment.\n\nAdil Asadov is the author of more than 170 scientific articles in Azerbaijani, Russian, English and German languages. He has been a participant and lecturer at many international conferences.\nHe gave a speech at international conferences in Baku, Moscow, Minsk, Tbilisi, Belgorod, Bratislava, Athens, St. Petersburg and Harvard University. He represented the Republic of Azerbaijan at the Second European Social Science Conference (June 13–18, 1998). His speech was published in 1999 in Paris.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the USSR Adil Asadov is the first Azerbaijani author published in the \"Вопросы философии\" that is the most influential philosophical journal of post-soviet states. \nHe has translated large-scale works from the world philosophical heritage: the masterpiece by Arthur Schopenhauer “The World as Will and Representation” and \"History of Philosophy\" by Gunnar Skirbekk and Nils Gilje.\n\nThe main direction of his scientific activity is creation of the Philosophical Pentalogy – a philosophical system that is composed of five parts: Philosophy Beauty, Philosophy of Being, Philosophy of Thinking, Moral Philosophy and, Philosophy of Politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27142307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142307", "title": "American Society for Aesthetics", "text": "American Society for Aesthetics\n\nAmerican Society for Aesthetics (ASA) is a philosophical organization founded in 1942 to promote the study of aesthetics. The ASA sponsors national and regional conferences, and publishes the \"Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism\", the \"American Society for Aesthetics Graduate Ejournal\", and the \"ASA Newsletter\". The organization also funds various projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49330348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49330348", "title": "Antisthenes (Heraclitean)", "text": "Antisthenes (Heraclitean)\n\nAntisthenes () was a writer from ancient Greece who was a disciple of Heraclitus, on whose work he wrote a commentary.\n\nThis Antisthenes may be the same as the one who wrote a work on the succession of the Greek philosophers (αἱ τῶν φιλοσόφων διαδοχαί), which is often referenced by Diogenes Laërtius in his own work. This remains unclear, however, and Laërtius may have been referring to the historian Antisthenes of Rhodes instead, who may have also been the same Antisthenes mentioned by Phlegon of Tralles.\n"}
{"id": "40786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40786", "title": "Bias", "text": "Bias\n\nBias is disproportionate weight in favor of or against one thing, person, or group compared with another, usually in a way considered to be unfair.\n\nBiases can be learned by watching cultural contexts. People may develop biases toward or against an individual, an ethnic group, a sexual or gender identity, a nation, a religion, a social class, a political party, theoretical paradigms and ideologies within academic domains, or a species. Biased means one-sided, lacking a neutral viewpoint, or not having an open mind. Bias can come in many forms and is related to prejudice and intuition.\n\nIn science and engineering, a bias is a systematic error. Statistical bias results from an unfair sampling of a population, or from an estimation process that does not give accurate results on average.\n\nThe word probably derives from Old Provençal into Old French \"biais\", \"sideways, askance, against the grain\". Whence comes French \"biais\", \"a slant, a slope, an oblique\".\n\nIt seems to have entered English via the game of bowls, where it referred to balls made with a greater weight on one side. Which expanded to the figurative use, \"a one-sided tendency of the mind\", and, at first especially in law, \"undue propensity or prejudice\".\n\nA cognitive bias is a repeating or basic misstep in thinking, assessing, recollecting, or other cognitive processes. That is, a pattern of deviation from standards in judgment, whereby inferences may be created unreasonably. People create their own \"subjective social reality\" from their own perceptions, their view of the world may dictate their behaviour. Thus, cognitive biases may sometimes lead to perceptual distortion, inaccurate judgment, illogical interpretation, or what is broadly called irrationality. However some cognitive biases are taken to be adaptive, and thus may lead to success in the appropriate situation. Furthermore, cognitive biases may allow speedier choices when speed is more valuable than precision. Other cognitive biases are a \"by-product\" of human processing limitations, coming about because of an absence of appropriate mental mechanisms, or just from human limitations in information processing.\n\nAnchoring is a psychological heuristic that describes the propensity to rely on the first piece of information encountered when making decisions. According to this heuristic, individuals begin with an implicitly suggested reference point (the \"anchor\") and make adjustments to it to reach their estimate. For example, the initial price offered for a used car sets the standard for the rest of the negotiations, so that prices lower than the initial price seem more reasonable even if they are still higher than what the car is worth.\n\nApophenia, also known as patternicity, or agenticity, is the human tendency to perceive meaningful patterns within random data. Apophenia is well documented as a rationalization for gambling. Gamblers may imagine that they see patterns in the numbers which appear in lotteries, card games, or roulette wheels. One manifestation of this is known as the \"gambler's fallacy\".\n\nPareidolia is the visual or auditory form of apophenia. It has been suggested that pareidolia combined with hierophany may have helped ancient societies organize chaos and make the world intelligible.\n\nAn attribution bias can happen when individuals assess or attempt to discover explanations behind their own and others' behaviors. People make attributions about the causes of their own and others’ behaviors; but these attributions don't necessarily precisely reflect reality. Rather than operating as objective perceivers, individuals are inclined to perceptual slips that prompt biased understandings of their social world. When judging others we tend to assume their actions are the result of internal factors such as personality, whereas we tend to assume our own actions arise because of the necessity of external circumstances. There are a wide range of sorts of attribution biases, such as the ultimate attribution error, fundamental attribution error, actor-observer bias, and self-serving bias.\n\nConfirmation bias is the tendency to search for, interpret, favor, and recall information in a way that confirms one's beliefs or hypotheses while giving disproportionately less attention to information that contradicts it. The effect is stronger for emotionally charged issues and for deeply entrenched beliefs. People also tend to interpret ambiguous evidence as supporting their existing position. Biased search, interpretation and memory have been invoked to explain attitude polarization (when a disagreement becomes more extreme even though the different parties are exposed to the same evidence), belief perseverance (when beliefs persist after the evidence for them is shown to be false), the irrational primacy effect (a greater reliance on information encountered early in a series) and illusory correlation (when people falsely perceive an association between two events or situations). Confirmation biases contribute to overconfidence in personal beliefs and can maintain or strengthen beliefs in the face of contrary evidence. Poor decisions due to these biases have been found in political and organizational contexts.\n\nFraming involves the social construction of social phenomena by mass media sources, political or social movements, political leaders, and so on. It is an influence over how people organize, perceive, and communicate about reality. It can be positive or negative - depending on the audience and what kind of information is being presented. For political purposes, framing often presents facts in such a way that implicates a problem that is in need of a solution. Members of political parties attempt to frame issues in a way that makes a solution favoring their own political leaning appear as the most appropriate course of action for the situation at hand. As understood in social theory, framing is a schema of interpretation, a collection of anecdotes and stereotypes, that individuals rely on to understand and respond to events. People use filters to make sense of the world, the choices they then make are influenced by their creation of a frame.\n\nCultural bias is the related phenomenon of interpreting and judging phenomena by standards inherent to one's own culture. Numerous such biases exist, concerning cultural norms for color, location of body parts, mate selection, concepts of justice, linguistic and logical validity, acceptability of evidence, and taboos. Ordinary people may tend to imagine other people as basically the same, not significantly more or less valuable, probably attached emotionally to different groups and different land.\n\nThe halo effect and the horn effect are when an observer's overall impression of a person, organization, brand, or product influences their feelings about specifics of that entity's character or properties.\n\nThe name halo effect is based on the concept of the saint's halo, and is a specific type of confirmation bias, wherein positive sentiments in one area cause questionable or unknown characteristics to be seen positively. If the observer likes one aspect of something, they will have a positive predisposition toward everything about it. A person's appearance has been found to produce a halo effect. The halo effect is also present in the field of brand marketing, affecting perception of companies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).\n\nThe opposite of the halo is the horn effect, when \"individuals believe (that negative) traits are inter-connected.\" The term horn effect refers to Devil's horns. It works in a negative direction: if the observer dislikes one aspect of something, they will have a negative predisposition towards other aspects.\n\nBoth of these bias effects often clash with phrases such as \"words mean something\" and \"Your words have a history.\"\n\nSelf-serving bias is the tendency for cognitive or perceptual processes to be distorted by the individual's need to maintain and enhance self-esteem. It is the propensity to credit accomplishment to our own capacities and endeavors, yet attribute failure to outside factors, to dismiss the legitimacy of negative criticism, concentrate on positive qualities and accomplishments yet disregard flaws and failures. Studies have demonstrated that this bias can affect behavior in the workplace, in interpersonal relationships, playing sports, and in consumer decisions.\n\nStatus quo bias is an emotional bias; a preference for the current state of affairs. The current baseline (or status quo) is taken as a reference point, and any change from that baseline is perceived as a loss.\nStatus quo bias should be distinguished from a rational preference for the status quo ante, as when the current state of affairs is objectively superior to the available alternatives, or when imperfect information is a significant problem. A large body of evidence, however, shows that status quo bias frequently affects human decision-making.\n\nA conflict of interest is when a person or association has intersecting interests (financial, personal, etc.) which could potentially corrupt. The potential conflict is autonomous of actual improper actions, it can be found and intentionally defused before corruption, or the appearance of corruption, happens. \"A conflict of interest is a set of circumstances that creates a risk that professional judgement or actions regarding a primary interest will be unduly influenced by a secondary interest.\" It exists if the circumstances are sensibly accepted to present a hazard that choices made may be unduly affected by auxiliary interests.\n\nBribery is the giving of money, goods or other forms of recompense to in order to influence the recipient's behavior. Bribes can include money (including tips), goods, rights in action, property, privilege, emolument, gifts, perks, skimming, return favors, discounts, sweetheart deals, kickbacks, funding, donations, campaign contributions, sponsorships, stock options, secret commissions, or promotions. Expectations of when a monetary transaction is appropriate can differ from place to place. Political campaign contributions in the form of cash are considered criminal acts of bribery in some countries, while in the United States they are legal provided they adhere to election law. Tipping, is considered bribery in some societies, but not others.\n\nFavoritism, sometimes known as in-group favoritism, or in-group bias, refers to a pattern of favoring members of one's in-group over out-group members. This can be expressed in evaluation of others, in allocation of resources, and in many other ways. This has been researched by psychologists, especially social psychologists, and linked to group conflict and prejudice. Cronyism is favoritism of long-standing friends, especially by appointing them to positions of authority, regardless of their qualifications. Nepotism is favoritism granted to relatives.\n\nLobbying is the attempt to influence choices made by administrators, frequently lawmakers or individuals from administrative agencies. Lobbyists may be among a legislator's constituencies, or not; they may engage in lobbying as a business, or not. Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law in order to serve their own interests. When people who have a duty to act on behalf of others, such as elected officials with a duty to serve their constituents' interests or more broadly the common good, stand to benefit by shaping the law to serve the interests of some private parties, there is a conflict of interest. This can lead to all sides in a debate looking to sway the issue by means of lobbyists.\n\nSelf-regulation is the process whereby an organization monitors its own adherence to legal, ethical, or safety standards, rather than have an outside, independent agency such as a third party entity monitor and enforce those standards. Self-regulation of any group can create a conflict of interest. If any organization, such as a corporation or government bureaucracy, is asked to eliminate unethical behavior within their own group, it may be in their interest in the short run to eliminate the appearance of unethical behavior, rather than the behavior itself.\n\nRegulatory capture is a form of political corruption that can occur when a regulatory agency, created to act in the public interest, instead advances the commercial or political concerns of special interest groups that dominate the industry or sector it is charged with regulating. Regulatory capture occurs because groups or individuals with a high-stakes interest in the outcome of policy or regulatory decisions can be expected to focus their resources and energies in attempting to gain the policy outcomes they prefer, while members of the public, each with only a tiny individual stake in the outcome, will ignore it altogether. Regulatory capture is a risk to which a regulatory agency is exposed by its very nature.\n\nShilling is deliberately giving spectators the feeling that one is an energetic autonomous client of a vendor for whom one is working. The effectiveness of shilling relies on crowd psychology to encourage other onlookers or audience members to purchase the goods or services (or accept the ideas being marketed). Shilling is illegal in some places, but legal in others. An example of shilling is paid reviews that give the impression of being autonomous opinions.\n\nStatistical bias is a systematic tendency in the process of data collection, which results in lopsided, misleading results. This can occur in any of a number of ways, in the way the sample is selected, or in the way data are collected. It is a property of a statistical technique or of its results whereby the expected value of the results differs from the true underlying quantitative parameter being estimated.\n\nA forecast bias is when there are consistent differences between results and the forecasts of those quantities; that is: forecasts may have an overall tendency to be too high or too low.\n\nThe observer-expectancy effect is when a researcher's expectations cause them to subconsciously influence the people participating in an experiment. It is usually controlled using a double-blind system, and was an important reason for the development of double-blind experiments.\n\nIn epidemiology and empirical research, reporting bias is defined as \"selective revealing or suppression of information\" of undesirable behavior by subjects or researchers.\n\nIt refers to a tendency to under-report unexpected or undesirable experimental results, while being more trusting of expected or desirable results. This can propagate, as each instance reinforces the status quo, and later experimenters justify their own reporting bias by observing that previous experimenters reported different results.\n\nSocial desirability bias is a bias within social science research where survey respondents can tend to answer questions in a manner that will be viewed positively by others. It can take the form of over-reporting laudable behavior, or under-reporting undesirable behavior. This bias interferes with the interpretation of average tendencies as well as individual differences. The inclination represents a major issue with self-report questionnaires; of special concern are self-reports of abilities, personalities, sexual behavior, and drug use.\n\nSelection bias is the, conscious or unconscious, bias introduced into a study by the way individuals, groups or data are selected for analysis, if such a way means that true randomization is not achieved, thereby ensuring that the sample obtained is not representative of the population intended to be analyzed. Which results in a sample that may be significantly different from the overall population.\n\nBias and prejudice are usually considered to be closely related. Prejudice is prejudgment, or forming an opinion before becoming aware of the relevant facts of a case. The word is often used to refer to preconceived, usually unfavorable, judgments toward people or a person because of gender, political opinion, social class, age, disability, religion, sexuality, race/ethnicity, language, nationality, or other personal characteristics. Prejudice can also refer to unfounded beliefs and may include \"any unreasonable attitude that is unusually resistant to rational influence\".\n\nClassism is discrimination on the basis of social class. It includes attitudes that benefit the upper class at the expense of the lower class, or vice versa.\n\nLookism is stereotypes, prejudice, and discrimination on the basis of physical attractiveness, or more generally to people whose appearance matches cultural preferences. Many people make automatic judgments of others based on their physical appearance that influence how they respond to those people.\n\nRacism consists of ideologies based on a desire to dominate or a belief in the inferiority of another race. It may also hold that members of different races should be treated differently.\n\nSexism is discrimination based on a person's sex or gender. Sexism can affect any gender, but it is particularly documented as affecting women and girls. It has been linked to stereotypes and gender roles, and may include the belief that one sex or gender is intrinsically superior to another.\n\nAcademic bias is the bias or perceived bias of scholars allowing their beliefs to shape their research and the scientific community. Claims of bias are often linked to claims by conservatives of pervasive bias against political conservatives and religious Christians. Some have argued that these claims are based upon anecdotal evidence which would not reliably indicate systematic bias, and have suggested that this divide is due to self-selection of conservatives choosing not to pursue academic careers.\nThere is some evidence that perception of classroom bias may be rooted in issues of sexuality, race, class and sex as much or more than in religion.\n\nIn science research, experimenter bias occurs when experimenter expectancies regarding study results bias the research outcome. Examples of experimenter bias include conscious or unconscious influences on subject behavior including creation of demand characteristics that influence subjects, and altered or selective recording of experimental results themselves.\n\nFunding bias refers to the tendency of a scientific study to support the interests of the study's financial sponsor. This phenomenon is recognized sufficiently that researchers undertake studies to examine bias in past published studies. It can be caused by any or all of: a conscious or subconscious sense of obligation of researchers towards their employers, misconduct or malpractice, publication bias, or reporting bias.\n\nFull text on net (or FUTON) bias is a tendency of scholars to cite academic journals with open access—that is, journals that make their full text available on the internet without charge—in their own writing as compared with toll access publications. Scholars can more easily discover and access articles that have their full text on the internet, which increases authors' likelihood of reading, quoting, and citing these articles, this may increase the impact factor of open access journals relative to journals without open access.\n\nThe related bias, no abstract available bias (NAA bias) is scholars' tendency to cite journal articles that have an abstract available online more readily than articles that do not.\n\nPublication bias is a type of bias with regard to what academic research is likely to be published because of a tendency of researchers, and journal editors, to prefer some outcomes rather than others e.g. results showing a significant finding, leads to a problematic bias in the published literature. This can propagate further as literature reviews of claims about support for a hypothesis will themselves be biased if the original literature is contaminated by publication bias. Studies with significant results often do not appear to be superior to studies with a null result with respect to quality of design. However, statistically significant results have been shown to be three times more likely to be published compared to papers with null results.\n\nDriving while black refers to the racial profiling of African American drivers. The phrase implies that a motorist might be pulled over by a police officer, questioned, and searched, because of a racial bias.\n\nRacial profiling, or ethnic profiling, is the act of suspecting or targeting a person of a certain race on the basis of racially observed characteristics or behavior, rather than on individual suspicion. Racial profiling is commonly referred to regarding its use by law enforcement, and its leading to discrimination against minorities.\n\nVictim blaming occurs when the victim of a wrongful act is held at fault for the harm that befell them. The study of victimology seeks to mitigate the perception of victims as responsible.\n\nMedia bias is the bias or perceived bias of journalists and news producers within the mass media in the selection of events, the stories that are reported, and how they are covered. The term generally implies a pervasive or widespread bias violating the standards of journalism, rather than the perspective of an individual journalist or article. The level of media bias in different nations is debated. There are also watchdog groups that report on media bias.\n\nPractical limitations to media neutrality include the inability of journalists to report all available stories and facts, the requirement that selected facts be linked into a coherent narrative, government influence including overt and covert censorship, the influence of the owners of the news source, concentration of media ownership, the selection of staff, the preferences of an intended audience, and pressure from advertisers.\n\nBias has been a feature of the mass media since its birth with the invention of the printing press. The expense of early printing equipment restricted media production to a limited number of people. Historians have found that publishers often served the interests of powerful social groups.\n\nAgenda setting describes the capacity of the media to focus on particular stories, if a news item is covered frequently and prominently, the audience will regard the issue as more important. That is, its salience will increase.\n\nGatekeeping is the way in which information and news are filtered to the public, by each person or corporation along the way. It is the \"process of culling and crafting countless bits of information into the limited number of messages that reach people every day, and it is the center of the media's role in modern public life. [...] This process determines not only which information is selected, but also what the content and nature of the messages, such as news, will be.\"\n\nSensationalism is when events and topics in news stories and pieces are overhyped to present skewed impressions of events, which may cause a misrepresentation of the truth of a story. Sensationalism may involve reporting about insignificant matters and events, or the presentation of newsworthy topics in a trivial or tabloid manner contrary to the standards of professional journalism.\n\nBias in education refers to real or perceived bias in the educational system. The content of school textbooks is often the issue of debate, as their target audience is young people, and the term \"whitewashing\" is used to refer to selective removal of critical or damaging evidence or comment. Religious bias in textbooks is observed in countries where religion plays a dominant role. There can be many forms of educational bias. Some overlooked aspects, occurring especially with the pedagogical circles of public and private schools—sources that are unrelated to fiduciary or mercantile impoverishment which may be unduly magnified—include teacher bias as well as a general bias against women who are going into STEM research.\n\nInductive bias occurs within the field of machine learning. In machine learning one seeks to develop algorithms that are able to \"learn\" to anticipate a particular output. To accomplish this, the learning algorithm is given training cases that show the expected connection. Then the learner is tested with new examples. Without further assumptions, this problem cannot be solved exactly as unknown situations may not be predictable. The inductive bias of the learning algorithm is the set of assumptions that the learner uses to predict outputs given inputs that it has not encountered. It may bias the learner towards the correct solution, the incorrect, or be correct some of the time. A classical example of an inductive bias is Occam's Razor, which assumes that the simplest consistent hypothesis is the best.\n\nInsider trading is the trading of a public company's stock or other securities (such as bonds or stock options) by individuals with access to non-public information about the company. In various countries, trading based on insider information is illegal because it is seen as unfair to other investors who do not have access to the information as the investor with insider information could potentially make far larger profits that a typical investor could not make.\n\nIn organized sports, match fixing occurs when a match is played to a completely or partially pre-determined result, violating the rules of the game and often the law. There is a variety of reasons for this, but the most common is in exchange for a payoff from gamblers. Players might also intentionally perform poorly to get an advantage in the future (such as a better draft pick, or an easier opponent in a playoff), or to rig a handicap system. Match-fixing generally refers to fixing the final result of the game. Another form of match-fixing, known as spot-fixing, involves fixing small events within a match which can be gambled upon, but which are unlikely to prove decisive in determining the final result of the game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42031", "title": "Carl Jung", "text": "Carl Jung\n\nCarl Gustav Jung (; ; 26 July 1875 – 6 June 1961) was a Swiss psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who founded analytical psychology.\n\nJung's work was influential in the fields of psychiatry, anthropology, archaeology, literature, philosophy, and religious studies. Jung worked as a research scientist at the famous Burghölzli hospital, under Eugen Bleuler. During this time, he came to the attention of the Viennese founder of psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud. The two men conducted a lengthy correspondence and collaborated, for a while, on a joint vision of human psychology.\n\nFreud saw in the younger Jung the potential heir he had been seeking to carry on his \"new science\" of psychoanalysis and even named him the first head of Freud's newly founded International Psychoanalytic Association. Jung's research and personal vision, however, made it impossible for him to bend to his older colleague's doctrine, and a schism became inevitable. This division was personally painful for Jung, and it was to have historic repercussions lasting well into the modern day.\n\nAmong the central concepts of analytical psychology is individuation—the lifelong psychological process of differentiation of the self out of each individual's conscious and unconscious elements. Jung considered it to be the main task of human development. He created some of the best known psychological concepts, including synchronicity, archetypal phenomena, the collective unconscious, the psychological complex, and extraversion and introversion.\n\nJung was also an artist, craftsman and builder as well as a prolific writer. Many of his works were not published until after his death and some are still awaiting publication.\n\nCarl Gustav Jung was born in Kesswil, in the Swiss canton of Thurgau, on 26 July 1875 as the second and first surviving son of Paul Achilles Jung (1842–1896) and Emilie Preiswerk (1848–1923). Their first child, born in 1873, was a boy named Paul who survived only a few days. Being the youngest son of a noted Basel physician of German descent, also called (1794–1864), whose hopes of achieving a fortune never materialised, Paul Jung did not progress beyond the status of an impoverished rural pastor in the Swiss Reformed Church; his wife had also grown up in a large family, whose Swiss roots went back five centuries. Emilie was the youngest child of a distinguished Basel churchman and academic, (1799–1871), and his second wife. Preiswerk was \"antistes\", the title given to the head of the Reformed clergy in the city, as well as a Hebraist, author and editor, who taught Paul Jung as his professor of Hebrew at Basel University.\n\nWhen Jung was six months old, his father was appointed to a more prosperous parish in Laufen, but the tension between his parents was growing. Emilie Jung was an eccentric and depressed woman; she spent considerable time in her bedroom where she said that spirits visited her at night. Although she was normal during the day, Jung recalled that at night his mother became strange and mysterious. He reported that one night he saw a faintly luminous and indefinite figure coming from her room with a head detached from the neck and floating in the air in front of the body. Jung had a better relationship with his father.\n\nJung's mother left Laufen for several months of hospitalization near Basel for an unknown physical ailment. His father took the boy to be cared for by Emilie Jung's unmarried sister in Basel, but he was later brought back to his father's residence. Emilie Jung's continuing bouts of absence and depression deeply troubled her son and caused him to associate women with \"innate unreliability\", whereas \"father\" meant for him reliability but also powerlessness. In his memoir, Jung would remark that this parental influence was the \"handicap I started off with. Later, these early impressions were revised: I have trusted men friends and been disappointed by them, and I have mistrusted women and was not disappointed.\" After three years of living in Laufen, Paul Jung requested a transfer; he was called to , next to Basel in 1879. The relocation brought Emilie Jung closer into contact with her family and lifted her melancholy. When he was nine years old, Jung's sister Johanna Gertrud (1884–1935) was born. Known in the family as \"Trudi\", she later became a secretary to her brother.\n\nJung was a solitary and introverted child. From childhood, he believed that, like his mother, he had two personalities—a modern Swiss citizen and a personality more suited to the 18th century. \"Personality Number 1\", as he termed it, was a typical schoolboy living in the era of the time. \"Personality Number 2\" was a dignified, authoritative and influential man from the past. Although Jung was close to both parents, he was disappointed by his father's academic approach to faith.\n\nA number of childhood memories made lifelong impressions on him. As a boy, he carved a tiny mannequin into the end of the wooden ruler from his pencil case and placed it inside the case. He added a stone, which he had painted into upper and lower halves, and hid the case in the attic. Periodically, he would return to the mannequin, often bringing tiny sheets of paper with messages inscribed on them in his own secret language. He later reflected that this ceremonial act brought him a feeling of inner peace and security. Years later, he discovered similarities between his personal experience and the practices associated with totems in indigenous cultures, such as the collection of soul-stones near Arlesheim or the \"tjurungas\" of Australia. He concluded that his intuitive ceremonial act was an unconscious ritual, which he had practiced in a way that was strikingly similar to those in distant locations which he, as a young boy, knew nothing about. His observations about symbols, archetypes, and the collective unconscious were inspired, in part, by these early experiences combined with his later research.\n\nAt the age of 12, shortly before the end of his first year at the in Basel, Jung was pushed to the ground by another boy so hard that he momentarily lost consciousness. (Jung later recognized that the incident was his fault, indirectly.) A thought then came to him—\"now you won't have to go to school anymore.\" From then on, whenever he walked to school or began homework, he fainted. He remained at home for the next six months until he overheard his father speaking hurriedly to a visitor about the boy's future ability to support himself. They suspected he had epilepsy. Confronted with the reality of his family's poverty, he realized the need for academic excellence. He went into his father's study and began poring over Latin grammar. He fainted three more times but eventually overcame the urge and did not faint again. This event, Jung later recalled, \"was when I learned what a neurosis is.\"\n\nJung did not plan to study psychiatry since it was not considered prestigious at the time. But, studying a psychiatric textbook, he became very excited when he discovered that psychoses are personality diseases. His interest was immediately captured—it combined the biological and the spiritual, exactly what he was searching for. In 1895 Jung began to study medicine at the University of Basel. Barely a year later in 1896, his father Paul died and left the family near destitute. They were helped out by relatives who also contributed to Jung's studies. During his student days, he entertained his contemporaries with the family legend, that his paternal grandfather was the illegitimate son of Goethe and his German great-grandmother, Sophie Ziegler. In later life, he pulled back from this tale, saying only that Sophie was a friend of Goethe's niece.\n\nIn 1900 Jung began working at the Burghölzli psychiatric hospital in Zürich with Eugen Bleuler. Bleuler was already in communication with the Austrian neurologist Sigmund Freud. Jung's dissertation, published in 1903, was titled \"On the Psychology and Pathology of So-Called Occult Phenomena.\" In 1906 he published \"Diagnostic Association Studies,\" and later sent a copy of this book to Freud. It turned out that Freud had already bought a copy.\n\nEventually a close friendship and a strong professional association developed between the elder Freud and Jung, which left a sizeable correspondence. For six years they cooperated in their work. In 1912, however, Jung published \"Wandlungen und Symbole der Libido\" (known in English as \"Psychology of the Unconscious\"), which made manifest the developing theoretical divergence between the two. Consequently, their personal and professional relationship fractured—each stating that the other was unable to admit he could possibly be wrong. After the culminating break in 1913, Jung went through a difficult and pivotal psychological transformation, exacerbated by the outbreak of the First World War. Henri Ellenberger called Jung's intense experience a \"creative illness\" and compared it favorably to Freud's own period of what he called neurasthenia and hysteria.\n\nDuring World War I Jung was drafted as an army doctor and soon made commandant of an internment camp for British officers and soldiers (The Swiss were neutral, and obliged to intern personnel from either side of the conflict who crossed their frontier to evade capture). Jung worked to improve the conditions of soldiers stranded in neutral territory and encouraged them to attend university courses.\n\nIn 1903, Jung married Emma Rauschenbach, seven years his junior and the elder daughter of a wealthy industrialist in eastern Switzerland, Johannes Rauschenbach-Schenck, and his wife. Rauschenbach was the owner, among other concerns, of IWC Schaffhausen – the International Watch Company, manufacturers of luxury time-pieces. Upon his death in 1905, his two daughters and their husbands became owners of the business. Jung's brother-in-law—Ernst Homberger—became the principal proprietor, but the Jungs remained shareholders in a thriving business that ensured the family's financial security for decades. Emma Jung, whose education had been limited, evinced considerable ability and interest in her husband's research and threw herself into studies and acted as his assistant at Burghölzli. She eventually became a noted psychoanalyst in her own right. They had five children: Agathe, Gret, Franz, Marianne, and Helene. The marriage lasted until Emma's death in 1955.\n\nDuring his marriage, Jung engaged in extramarital relationships. His alleged affairs with Sabina Spielrein and Toni Wolff were the most widely discussed. Though it was mostly taken for granted that Jung's relationship with Spielrein included a sexual relationship, this assumption has been disputed, in particular by Henry Zvi Lothane.\n\nJung was thirty when he sent his \"Studies in Word Association\" to Sigmund Freud in Vienna in 1906. The two men met for the first time the following year and Jung recalled the discussion between himself and Freud as interminable. He recalled that they talked almost unceasingly for thirteen hours. Six months later, the then 50-year-old Freud sent a collection of his latest published essays to Jung in Zurich. This marked the beginning of an intense correspondence and collaboration that lasted six years and ended in May 1913. At that time Jung resigned as the chairman of the International Psychoanalytical Association, a position to which he had been elected with Freud's support.\nJung and Freud influenced each other during the intellectually formative years of Jung's life. Jung had become interested in psychiatry as a student by reading \"Psychopathia Sexualis\" by Richard von Krafft-Ebing. In 1900, Jung completed his degree, and started work as an intern (voluntary doctor) under the psychiatrist, Eugen Bleuler at Burghölzli Hospital. It was Bleuler who introduced him to the writings of Freud by asking him to write a review of \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899). In 1905 Jung was appointed as a permanent 'senior' doctor at the hospital and also became a lecturer \"Privatdozent\" in the medical faculty of Zurich University. In that period psychology as a science was still in its early stages, but Jung became a qualified proponent of Freud's new \"psycho-analysis.\" At the time, Freud needed collaborators and pupils to validate and spread his ideas. Burghölzli was a renowned psychiatric clinic in Zurich and Jung's research had already gained him international recognition. Preceded by a lively correspondence, Jung met Freud for the first time, in Vienna on 3 March 1907. In 1908, Jung became an editor of the newly founded \"Yearbook for Psychoanalytical and Psychopathological Research.\"\n\nin 1909, Jung traveled with Freud and the Hungarian psychoanalyst Sándor Ferenczi to the United States; they took part in a conference at Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts. The conference at Clark University was planned by the psychologist G. Stanley Hall and included twenty-seven distinguished psychiatrists, neurologists and psychologists. It represented a watershed in the acceptance of psychoanalysis in North America. This forged welcome links between Jung and influential Americans. Jung returned to the United States the next year for a brief visit.\n\nIn 1910, Jung became Chairman for Life of the International Psychoanalytical Association with Freud's support. Freud would come to call Jung \"his adopted eldest son, his crown prince and successor\".\n\nWhile Jung worked on his Wandlungen und Symbole der Libido (Psychology of the Unconscious: a study of the transformations and symbolisms of the libido, a contribution to the history of the evolution of thought), tensions became manifest between him and Freud because of their disagreements over the nature of libido and religion. Jung de-emphasized the importance of sexual development and focused on the collective unconscious: the part of the unconscious that contains memories and ideas that Jung believed were inherited from ancestors. While he did think that libido was an important source for personal growth, unlike Freud, Jung did not believe that libido alone was responsible for the formation of the core personality. Jung believed his personal development was influenced by factors he felt were unrelated to sexuality.\n\nIn 1912 these tensions came to a peak because Jung felt severely slighted after Freud visited his colleague Ludwig Binswanger in Kreuzlingen without paying him a visit in nearby Zurich, an incident Jung referred to as \"the Kreuzlingen gesture\". Shortly thereafter, Jung again traveled to the United States and gave the Fordham University lectures, a six-week series, which were published as \"The Theory of Psychoanalysis\" (1912). While they contain some remarks on Jung's dissenting view on the libido, they represent largely a \"psychoanalytical Jung\" and not the theory of analytical psychology, for which he became famous in the following decades.\n\nAnother primary disagreement with Freud stemmed from their differing concepts of the unconscious. Jung saw Freud's theory of the unconscious as incomplete and unnecessarily negative and inelastic. According to Jung, Freud conceived the unconscious solely as a repository of repressed emotions and desires. Jung's observations overlap to an extent with Freud's model of the unconscious, what Jung called the \"personal unconscious\", but his hypothesis is more about a process than a static model and he also proposed the existence of a second, overarching form of the unconscious beyond the personal, that he named the psychoid – a term borrowed from Driesch, but with a somewhat altered meaning. The collective unconscious is not so much a 'geographical location', but a deduction from the alleged ubiquity of archetypes over space and time. Freud had actually mentioned a collective level of psychic functioning but saw it primarily as an appendix to the rest of the psyche.\n\nIn November 1912, Jung and Freud met in Munich for a meeting among prominent colleagues to discuss psychoanalytical journals. At a talk about a new psychoanalytic essay on Amenhotep IV, Jung expressed his views on how it related to actual conflicts in the psychoanalytic movement. While Jung spoke, Freud suddenly fainted and Jung carried him to a couch.\n\nJung and Freud personally met for the last time in September 1913 for the Fourth International Psychoanalytical Congress in Munich. Jung gave a talk on psychological types, the introverted and extraverted type in analytical psychology. This constituted the introduction of some of the key concepts which came to distinguish Jung's work from Freud's in the next half century.\n\nIt was the publication of Jung's book \"Psychology of the Unconscious\" in 1912 that led to the break with Freud. Letters they exchanged show Freud's refusal to consider Jung's ideas. This rejection caused what Jung described in his (posthumous) 1962 autobiography, \"Memories, Dreams, Reflections\", as a \"resounding censure\". Everyone he knew dropped away except for two of his colleagues. Jung described his book as \"an attempt, only partially successful, to create a wider setting for medical psychology and to bring the whole of the psychic phenomena within its purview.\" (The book was later revised and retitled \"Symbols of Transformation\" in 1922).\n\nJung spoke at meetings of the Psycho-Medical Society in London in 1913 and 1914. His travels were soon interrupted by the war, but his ideas continued to receive attention in England primarily through the efforts of Constance Long who translated and published the first English volume of his collected writings.\n\nIn 1913, at the age of thirty-eight, Jung experienced a horrible \"confrontation with the unconscious\". He saw visions and heard voices. He worried at times that he was \"menaced by a psychosis\" or was \"doing a schizophrenia\". He decided that it was valuable experience and, in private, he induced hallucinations or, in his words, \"active imaginations\". He recorded everything he felt in small journals. Jung began to transcribe his notes into a large red leather-bound book, on which he worked intermittently for sixteen years.\n\nJung left no posthumous instructions about the final disposition of what he called the \"Liber Novus\" or the \"Red Book\". Sonu Shamdasani, a historian of psychology from London, tried for three years to persuade Jung's resistant heirs to have it published. Up to mid-September 2008, fewer than two dozen people had seen it. Ulrich Hoerni, Jung's grandson who manages the Jung archives, decided to publish it to raise the additional funds needed when the Philemon Foundation was founded.\n\nIn 2007, two technicians for DigitalFusion, working with New York City publishers W. W. Norton & Company, scanned the manuscript with a 10,200-pixel scanner. It was published on 7 October 2009, in German with a \"separate English translation along with Shamdasani's introduction and footnotes\" at the back of the book, according to Sara Corbett for \"The New York Times\". She wrote, \"The book is bombastic, baroque and like so much else about Carl Jung, a willful oddity, synched with an antediluvian and mystical reality.\"\n\nThe Rubin Museum of Art in New York City displayed the original \"Red Book\" journal, as well as some of Jung's original small journals, from 7 October 2009 to 15 February 2010. According to them, \"During the period in which he worked on this book Jung developed his principal theories of archetypes, collective unconscious, and the process of individuation.\" Two-thirds of the pages bear Jung's illuminations of the text.\n\nJung emerged from his period of isolation in the late nineteen-teens with the publication of several journal articles, followed in 1921 with \"Psychological Types\", one of his most influential books. There followed a decade of active publication, interspersed with overseas travels.\n\nConstance Long arranged for Jung to deliver a seminar in Cornwall in 1920. Another seminar was held in 1923, this one organized by Helton Godwin Baynes (known as Peter), and another in 1925.\n\nAt the tenth International Medical Congress for Psychotherapy held at Oxford from 29 July to 2 August 1938, Jung gave the presidential address, followed by a visit to Cheshire to stay with the Bailey family at Lawton Mere.\n\nJung made a more extensive trip westward in the winter of 1924–5, financed and organized by Fowler McCormick and George Porter. Of particular value to Jung was a visit with Chief Mountain Lake of the Taos Pueblo near Taos, New Mexico.\nJung made another trip to America in 1936, giving lectures in New York and New England for his growing group of American followers. He returned in 1937 to deliver the Terry Lectures at Yale University, later published as \"Psychology and Religion\".\n\nIn October 1925, Jung embarked on his most ambitious expedition, the \"Bugishu Psychological Expedition\" to East Africa. He was accompanied by Peter Baynes and an American associate, George Beckwith. On the voyage to Africa, they became acquainted with an English woman named Ruth Bailey, who joined their safari a few weeks later. The group traveled through Kenya and Uganda to the slopes of Mount Elgon, where Jung hoped to increase his understanding of \"primitive psychology\" through conversations with the culturally isolated residents of that area. Later he concluded that the major insights he had gleaned had to do with himself and the European psychology in which he had been raised.\n\nIn December 1937, Jung left Zurich again for an extensive tour of India with Fowler McCormick. In India, he felt himself \"under the direct influence of a foreign culture\" for the first time. In Africa, his conversations had been strictly limited by the language barrier, but in India he was able to converse extensively. Hindu philosophy became an important element in his understanding of the role of symbolism and the life of the unconscious, though he avoided a meeting with Ramana Maharshi. He described Ramana as being absorbed in \"the self\", but admitted to not understanding Ramana's self-realization or what he actually did do. He also admitted that his field of psychology was not competent to understand the eastern insight of the Atman \"the self\". Jung became seriously ill on this trip and endured two weeks of delirium in a Calcutta hospital. After 1938, his travels were confined to Europe.\n\nJung continued to publish books until the end of his life, including \"Flying Saucers: A Modern Myth of Things Seen in the Skies\" (1959), which analyzed the archetypal meaning and possible psychological significance of the reported observations of UFOs. He also enjoyed a friendship with an English Roman Catholic priest, Father Victor White, who corresponded with Jung after he had published his controversial \"Answer to Job\".\n\nJung died on 6 June 1961 at Küsnacht, after a short illness. He had been beset by circulatory diseases.\n\nJung's thought was formed by early family influences, which on the maternal side were a blend of interest in the occult and in solid reformed academic theology. On his father's side were two important figures, his grandfather the physician and academic scientist, Karl Gustav Jung and the family's actual connection with Lotte Kestner, the niece of the German polymath, Johann Wolfgang Goethe' s \"Löttchen\".\nAlthough he was a practicing clinician and writer and as such founded analytical psychology, much of his life's work was spent exploring related areas such as physics, vitalism, Eastern and Western philosophy, alchemy, astrology, and sociology, as well as literature and the arts. Jung's interest in philosophy and the occult led many to view him as a mystic, although his preference was to be seen as a man of science.\n\nThe major concepts of analytical psychology as developed by Jung include:\n\nArchetype – a concept \"borrowed\" from anthropology to denote supposedly universal and recurring mental images or themes. Jung's definitions of archetypes varied over time and have been the subject of debate as to their usefulness.\n\nArchetypal images – universal symbols that can mediate opposites in the psyche, often found in religious art, mythology and fairy tales across cultures\n\nComplex – the repressed organisation of images and experiences that governs perception and behaviour\n\nExtraversion and introversion – personality traits of degrees of openness or reserve contributing to psychological type.\n\nShadow – the repressed, therefore unknown, aspects of the personality including those often considered to be negative\n\nCollective unconscious – aspects of unconsciousness experienced by all people in different cultures\n\nAnima – the contrasexual aspect of a man's psyche, his inner personal feminine conceived both as a complex and an archetypal image\n\nAnimus – the contrasexual aspect of a woman's psyche, her inner personal masculine conceived both as a complex and an archetypal image\n\nSelf – the central overarching concept governing the individuation process, as symbolised by mandalas, the union of male and female, totality, unity. Jung viewed it as the psyche's central archetype\n\nIndividuation – the process of fulfilment of each individual \"which negates neither the conscious or unconscious position but does justice to them both\".\n\nSynchronicity – an acausal principle as a basis for the apparently random simultaneous occurrence of phenomena.\n\nJung was one of the first people to define introversion and extraversion in a psychological context. In Jung's \"Psychological Types\", he theorizes that each person falls into one of two categories, the introvert and the extravert. These two psychological types Jung compares to ancient archetypes, Apollo and Dionysus. The introvert is likened with Apollo, who shines light on understanding. The introvert is focused on the internal world of reflection, dreaming and vision. Thoughtful and insightful, the introvert can sometimes be uninterested in joining the activities of others. The extravert is associated with Dionysus, interested in joining the activities of the world. The extravert is focused on the outside world of objects, sensory perception and action. Energetic and lively, the extrovert may lose their sense of self in the intoxication of Dionysian pursuits. Jungian introversion and extraversion is quite different from the modern idea of introversion and extroversion. Modern theories often stay true to behaviourist means of describing such a trait (sociability, talkativeness, assertiveness etc.) whereas Jungian introversion and extraversion is expressed as a perspective: introverts interpret the world \"subjectively\", whereas extraverts interpret the world \"objectively\".\n\nIn his psychological theory – which is not necessarily linked to a particular theory of social structure – the \"persona\" appears as a consciously created personality or identity, fashioned out of part of the collective psyche through socialization, acculturation and experience. Jung applied the term \"persona\", explicitly because, in Latin, it means both \"personality\" and the \"masks\" worn by Roman actors of the classical period, expressive of the individual roles played.\n\nThe \"persona\", he argues, is a mask for the \"collective psyche\", a mask that 'pretends' individuality, so that both self and others believe in that identity, even if it is really no more than a well-played \"role\" through which the collective psyche is expressed. Jung regarded the \"persona-mask\" as a complicated system which \"mediates\" between individual consciousness and the social community: it is \"a compromise between the individual and society as to what a man should appear to be\". But he also makes it quite explicit that it is, in substance, a \"character mask\" in the classical sense known to theatre, with its double function: both intended to make a certain impression on others, and to hide (part of) the true nature of the individual. The therapist then aims to assist the individuation process through which the client (re)gains their \"own self\" – by liberating the self, both from the deceptive cover of the \"persona\", and from the power of unconscious impulses.\n\nJung's theory has become enormously influential in management theory; not just because managers and executives have to create an appropriate \"management persona\" (a corporate mask) and a persuasive identity, but also because they have to evaluate \"what sort of people\" the workers are, in order to manage them (for example, using personality tests and peer reviews).\n\nJung's work on himself and his patients convinced him that life has a spiritual purpose beyond material goals. Our main task, he believed, is to discover and fulfill our deep, innate potential. Based on his study of Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Gnosticism, Taoism, and other traditions, Jung believed that this journey of transformation, which he called individuation, is at the mystical heart of all religions. It is a journey to meet the self and at the same time to meet the Divine. Unlike Freud's objectivist worldview, Jung's pantheism may have led him to believe that spiritual experience was essential to our well-being, as he specifically identifies individual human life with the universe as a whole. Jung's ideas on religion counterbalance Freudian scepticism. Jung's idea of religion as a practical road to individuation is still treated in modern textbooks on the psychology of religion, though his ideas have also been criticized.\n\nJung recommended spirituality as a cure for alcoholism, and he is considered to have had an indirect role in establishing Alcoholics Anonymous. Jung once treated an American patient (Rowland Hazard III), suffering from chronic alcoholism. After working with the patient for some time and achieving no significant progress, Jung told the man that his alcoholic condition was near to hopeless, save only the possibility of a spiritual experience. Jung noted that, occasionally, such experiences had been known to reform alcoholics when all other options had failed.\n\nHazard took Jung's advice seriously and set about seeking a personal, spiritual experience. He returned home to the United States and joined a First-Century Christian evangelical movement known as the Oxford Group (later known as Moral Re-Armament). He also told other alcoholics what Jung had told him about the importance of a spiritual experience. One of the alcoholics he brought into the Oxford Group was Ebby Thacher, a long-time friend and drinking buddy of Bill Wilson, later co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). Thacher told Wilson about the Oxford Group and, through them, Wilson became aware of Hazard's experience with Jung. The influence of Jung thus indirectly found its way into the formation of Alcoholics Anonymous, the original twelve-step program.\n\nThe above claims are documented in the letters of Jung and Bill Wilson, excerpts of which can be found in \"Pass It On\", published by Alcoholics Anonymous. Although the detail of this story is disputed by some historians, Jung himself discussed an Oxford Group member, who may have been the same person, in talks given around 1940. The remarks were distributed privately in transcript form, from shorthand taken by an attender (Jung reportedly approved the transcript), and later recorded in Volume 18 of his \"Collected Works\", \"The Symbolic Life,\"\n\nJung goes on to state that he has seen similar cures among Roman Catholics.\n\nJung had an apparent interest in the paranormal and occult. For decades he attended seances and claimed to have witnessed \"parapsychic phenomena\". Initially he attributed these to psychological causes, even delivering 1919 lecture in England for the Society for Psychical Research on \"The Psychological Foundations for the belief in spirits\". However, he began to \"doubt whether an exclusively psychological approach can do justice to the phenomena in question\" and stated that \"the spirit hypothesis yields better results\".\n\nJung's ideas about the paranormal culminated in \"synchronicity\", his idea that meaningful connections in the world manifest through coincidence with no apparent causal link. What he referred to as “acausal connecting principle”. Despite his own experiments failing to confirm the phenomenon he held on to the idea as an explanation for apparent ESP. As well as proposing it as a functional explanation for how the I-Ching worked, although he was never clear about how synchronicity worked.\n\nJung influenced one philosophical interpretation (not the science) of quantum physics with the concept of synchronicity regarding some events as non-causal. That idea influenced the physicist Wolfgang Pauli (with whom, via a letter correspondence, he developed the notion of \"unus mundus\" in connection with the notion of nonlocality) and some other physicists.\n\nThe work and writings of Jung from the 1940s onwards focused on alchemy.\n\nIn 1944 Jung published \"Psychology and Alchemy\", in which he analyzed the alchemical symbols and came to the conclusion that there is a direct relationship between them and the psychoanalytical process. He argued that the alchemical process was the transformation of the impure soul (lead) to perfected soul (gold), and a metaphor for the individuation process.\n\nIn 1963 \"Mysterium Coniunctionis\" first appeared in English as part of \"The Collected Works of C. G. Jung\". \"Mysterium Coniunctionis\" was Jung's last book and focused on the \"Mysterium Coniunctionis\" archetype, known as the sacred marriage between sun and moon. Jung argued that the stages of the alchemists, the blackening, the whitening, the reddening and the yellowing, could be taken as symbolic of individuation — his favourite term for personal growth (75).\n\nJung proposed that art can be used to alleviate or contain feelings of trauma, fear, or anxiety and also to repair, restore and heal. In his work with patients and in his own personal explorations, Jung wrote that art expression and images found in dreams could be helpful in recovering from trauma and emotional distress. At times of emotional distress, he often drew, painted, or made objects and constructions which he recognized as more than recreational.\n\nDance/movement therapy as an active imagination was created by C.G. Jung and Toni Wolff in 1916 and was practiced by Tina Keller-Jenny and other analysts, but remained largely unknown until the 1950s when it was rediscovered by Marian Chace and therapist Mary Whitehouse, who after studying with Martha Graham and Mary Wigman, became herself a dancer and dance teacher of modern dance, as well as Trudy Schoop in 1963, who is considered one of the founders of the dance/movement therapy in the States.\n\nJung stressed the importance of individual rights in a person's relation to the state and society. He saw that the state was treated as \"a quasi-animate personality from whom everything is expected\" but that this personality was \"only camouflage for those individuals who know how to manipulate it\", and referred to the state as a form of slavery. He also thought that the state \"swallowed up [people's] religious forces\", and therefore that the state had \"taken the place of God\"—making it comparable to a religion in which \"state slavery is a form of worship\". Jung observed that \"stage acts of [the] state\" are comparable to religious displays: \"Brass bands, flags, banners, parades and monster demonstrations are no different in principle from ecclesiastical processions, cannonades and fire to scare off demons\". From Jung's perspective, this replacement of God with the state in a mass society leads to the dislocation of the religious drive and results in the same fanaticism of the church-states of the Dark Ages—wherein the more the state is 'worshipped', the more freedom and morality are suppressed; this ultimately leaves the individual psychically undeveloped with extreme feelings of marginalization.\n\nJung had many friends and respected colleagues who were Jewish and he maintained relations with them through the 1930s when anti-semitism in Germany and other European nations was on the rise. However, until 1939, he also maintained professional relations with psychotherapists in Germany who had declared their support for the Nazi regime and there were allegations that he himself was a Nazi sympathizer.\n\nIn 1933, after the Nazis gained power in Germany, Jung took part in restructuring of the General Medical Society for Psychotherapy (\"Allgemeine Ärztliche Gesellschaft für Psychotherapie\"), a German-based professional body with an international membership. The society was reorganized into two distinct bodies:\n\nThe International Society's constitution permitted individual doctors to join it directly, rather than through one of the national affiliated societies, a provision to which Jung drew attention in a circular in 1934. This implied that German Jewish doctors could maintain their professional status as individual members of the international body, even though they were excluded from the German affiliate, as well as from other German medical societies operating under the Nazis.\n\nAs leader of the international body, Jung assumed overall responsibility for its publication, the \"Zentralblatt für Psychotherapie\". In 1933, this journal published a statement endorsing Nazi positions and Hitler's book \"Mein Kampf\". In 1934, Jung wrote in a Swiss publication, the \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\", that he experienced \"great surprise and disappointment\" when the \"Zentralblatt\" associated his name with the pro-Nazi statement.\n\nJung went on to say \"the main point is to get a young and insecure science into a place of safety during an earthquake\". He did not end his relationship with the \"Zentralblatt\" at this time, but he did arrange the appointment of a new managing editor, Carl Alfred Meier of Switzerland. For the next few years, the \"Zentralblatt\" under Jung and Meier maintained a position distinct from that of the Nazis, in that it continued to acknowledge contributions of Jewish doctors to psychotherapy.\n\nIn the face of energetic German attempts to Nazify the international body, Jung resigned from its presidency in 1939, the year the Second World War started.\n\nJung's interest in European mythology and folk psychology has led to accusations of Nazi sympathies, since they shared the same interest. He became, however, aware of the negative impact of these similarities:\nThere are writings showing that Jung's sympathies were against, rather than for, Nazism. In his 1936 essay \"Wotan\", Jung described the influence of Hitler on Germany as \"one man who is obviously 'possessed' has infected a whole nation to such an extent that everything is set in motion and has started rolling on its course towards perdition.\"\n\nJung would later say that:\nIn an interview with Carol Baumann in 1948, Jung denied rumors regarding any sympathy for the Nazi movement, saying:\nOthers have argued contrary to this, with reference to his writings, correspondence and public utterances of the 1930s. Attention has been drawn to articles Jung published in the \"Zentralblatt fur Psychotherapie\" stating: “The Aryan unconscious has a greater potential than the Jewish unconscious” and \"The Jew, who is something of a nomad, has never yet created a cultural form of his own and as far as we can see never will\". His remarks on the qualities of the \"Aryan unconscious\" and the “corrosive character” of Freud's “Jewish gospel” have been cited as evidence of an anti-semitism “fundamental to the structure of Jung’s thought”. However, Aniela Jaffé says that such sentences must be put in the context of the many positive statements Jung made about Jews and Judaism, and that the above quoted claims were framed by his argument that Jews are a \"race with a three-thousand year civilization\", while \"Aryans\" were race with a \"youthfulness not yet weaned from barbarism.\" Jung saw the former as \"possessing the inestimable advantage of greater consciousness and differentiation, while the latter were closer to nature and unlike Jews, capable of creating new cultural forms\". For Jung, the \"epithet \"barbarism\" was anything but a compliment\".\n\nDuring the 1930s, Jung had worked to protect Jewish psychologists from antisemitic legislation enacted by the Nazis. Jung's individual efforts to aid persecuted German-Jewish psychologists were known only to a few; however, during this period he discretely helped a large number of Jewish colleagues with active and personal support in their efforts to escape the Nazi regime - and many of those he helped in this period would later become friends of his.\n\nJung was in contact with Allen Dulles of the Office of Strategic Services (predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency) and provided valuable intelligence on the psychological condition of Hitler. Dulles referred to Jung as \"Agent 488\" and offered the following description of his service: “Nobody will probably ever know how much Professor Jung contributed to the Allied Cause during the war, by seeing people who were connected somehow with the other side.” Jung's service to the Allied cause through the OSS remained classified after the war.\n\nThe Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI), a popular psychometric instrument, and the concepts of socionics were developed from Jung's theory of psychological types. Jung saw the human psyche as \"by nature religious\" and made this religiousness the focus of his explorations. Jung is one of the best known contemporary contributors to dream analysis and symbolization. His influence on popular psychology, the \"psychologization of religion\", spirituality and the New Age movement has been immense. A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Jung as the 23rd most cited psychologist of the 20th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Collected Works of C. G. Jung\". Eds. Herbert Read, Michael Fordham, Gerhard Adler. Executive ed. W. McGuire. Trans R.F.C. Hull. London: Routledge Kegan Paul (1953-1980).\n\nSupplementary volumes\n\nSeminars\n\nTopics\n\nPeople\n\nOrganizations\n\nJung in works of fiction\nIntroductory texts\n\nTexts in various areas of Jungian thought\n\nAcademic texts\n\nJung-Freud relationship\n\nOther people's recollections of Jung\n\nCritical scholarship\n\n"}
{"id": "993153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993153", "title": "Certainty", "text": "Certainty\n\nCertainty is perfect knowledge that has total security from error, or the mental state of being without doubt.\n\nObjectively defined, certainty is total continuity and validity of all foundational inquiry, to the highest degree of precision. Something is certain only if no skepticism can occur. Philosophy (at least, historical Cartesian philosophy) seeks this state.\n\nPyrrho is credited as being the first Skeptic philosopher.\nThe main principle of Pyrrho's thought is expressed by the word acatalepsia, which denotes the ability to withhold assent from doctrines regarding the truth of things in their own nature; against every statement its contradiction may be advanced with equal justification. Secondly, it is necessary in view of this fact to preserve an attitude of intellectual suspense, or, as Timon expressed it, no assertion can be known to be better than another.\n\nAverroes was a purveyor of certain parts of Aristotelian philosophy. His philosophy was considered controversial in Muslim circles. as well as in West with thinkers like St. Thomas Aquinas who said of Averroes, \"the Arabian commentator as one who had, indeed, perverted the Peripatetic tradition, but whose words, nevertheless, should be treated with respect and consideration.\" Averroes' contribution to epistemology is only noted for the fact that he was one of the first to write on the topic and acted as a comparison for the traditional and definitive works of the Western tradition.\n\nDescartes' \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" is a book in which Descartes first discards all belief in things which are not absolutely certain, and then tries to establish what can be known for sure. Although the phrase \"Cogito, ergo sum\" is often attributed to Descartes' \"Meditations on First Philosophy\", it is actually put forward in his \"Discourse on Method\". Due to the implications of inferring the conclusion within the predicate, however, he changed the argument to \"I think, I exist\"; this then became his first certainty.\n\n\"On Certainty\" is a series of notes made by Ludwig Wittgenstein just prior to his death. The main theme of the work is that context plays a role in epistemology. Wittgenstein asserts an anti-foundationalist message throughout the work: that every claim can be doubted but certainty is possible in a framework. \"The function [propositions] serve in language is to serve as a kind of framework within which empirical propositions can make sense\".\n\nPhysicist Lawrence M. Krauss suggests that the need for identifying degrees of certainty is under-appreciated in various domains, including policy making and the understanding of science. This is because different goals require different degrees of certainty—and politicians are not always aware of (or do not make it clear) how much certainty we are working with.\n\nRudolf Carnap viewed certainty as a matter of degree (\"degrees of certainty\") which could be objectively measured, with degree one being certainty. Bayesian analysis derives degrees of certainty which are interpreted as a measure of subjective psychological belief.\n\nAlternatively, one might use the legal degrees of certainty. These standards of evidence ascend as follows: no credible evidence, some credible evidence, a preponderance of evidence, clear and convincing evidence, beyond reasonable doubt, and beyond any shadow of a doubt (i.e. \"undoubtable\"—recognized as an impossible standard to meet—which serves only to terminate the list).\n\nThe \"foundational crisis of mathematics\" was the early 20th century's term for the search for proper foundations of mathematics.\n\nAfter several schools of the philosophy of mathematics ran into difficulties one after the other in the 20th century, the assumption that mathematics had any foundation that could be stated within mathematics itself began to be heavily challenged.\n\nOne attempt after another to provide unassailable foundations for mathematics was found to suffer from various paradoxes (such as Russell's paradox) and to be inconsistent.\n\nVarious schools of thought were opposing each other. The leading school was that of the formalist approach, of which David Hilbert was the foremost proponent, culminating in what is known as Hilbert's program, which sought to ground mathematics on a small basis of a formal system proved sound by metamathematical finitistic means. The main opponent was the intuitionist school, led by L.E.J. Brouwer, which resolutely discarded formalism as a meaningless game with symbols. The fight was acrimonious. In 1920 Hilbert succeeded in having Brouwer, whom he considered a threat to mathematics, removed from the editorial board of \"Mathematische Annalen\", the leading mathematical journal of the time.\n\nGödel's incompleteness theorems, proved in 1931, showed that essential aspects of Hilbert's program could not be attained. In Gödel's first result he showed how to construct, for any sufficiently powerful and consistent finitely axiomatizable system—such as necessary to axiomatize the elementary theory of arithmetic—a statement that can be shown to be true, but that does not follow from the rules of the system. It thus became clear that the notion of mathematical truth can not be reduced to a purely formal system as envisaged in Hilbert's program. In a next result Gödel showed that such a system was not powerful enough for proving its own consistency, let alone that a simpler system could do the job. This dealt a final blow to the heart of Hilbert's program, the hope that consistency could be established by finitistic means (it was never made clear exactly what axioms were the \"finitistic\" ones, but whatever axiomatic system was being referred to, it was a \"weaker\" system than the system whose consistency it was supposed to prove). Meanwhile, the intuitionistic school had failed to attract adherents among working mathematicians, and floundered due to the difficulties of doing mathematics under the constraint of constructivism.\n\nIn a sense, the crisis has not been resolved, but faded away: most mathematicians either do not work from axiomatic systems, or if they do, do not doubt the consistency of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, generally their preferred axiomatic system. In most of mathematics as it is practiced, the various logical paradoxes never played a role anyway, and in those branches in which they do (such as logic and category theory), they may be avoided.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "538951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538951", "title": "Charles Francis Adams Jr.", "text": "Charles Francis Adams Jr.\n\nCharles Francis Adams Jr. (May 27, 1835 – March 20, 1915) was an American author and historian. He was a member of the prominent Adams family, and son of Charles Francis Adams Sr. He served as a colonel in the Union Army during the American Civil War. After the war, he was a railroad regulator and executive, an author of historical works, and a member of the Massachusetts Park Commission.\n\nAdams was born into a family with a long legacy in American public life. He was the great-grandson of United States President John Adams, and the grandson of president John Quincy Adams. His father Charles Francis Adams Sr. was a lawyer, politician, diplomat, and writer.\n\nAdams graduated from Harvard University in 1856.\n\nAdams served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. He was commissioned as a first lieutenant in the 1st Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry on December 28, 1861. He was promoted to captain on December 1, 1862. He fought with distinction during the Gettysburg Campaign, where his company was heavily engaged at the Battle of Aldie. When the regiment's 3-years enlistment ended it was reduced to a battalion; and Adams was mustered out of service on September 1, 1864.\n\nOn September 8, 1864 he was commissioned as the lieutenant colonel of the 5th Massachusetts Cavalry (officially designated \"5th Massachusetts Colored Volunteer Cavalry\"). He was promoted to colonel and assumed command of the regiment on March 14, 1865, shortly before the end of the war. When he assumed command, the regiment was assigned guarding Confederate prisoners of war at Point Lookout, Maryland.\n\nAdams, who wished to lead his regiment in combat, was able to get horses for his regiment and had it reassigned to front line duty during the closing days of the campaign against Richmond. Adams wrote in his autobiography that he regretted having his unit reassigned since he came to the conclusion that the regiment's black soldiers were ill-suited for combat duty. He led his regiment into Richmond shortly after it was captured in April 1865. Adams returned to Massachusetts in May due to illness (probably dysentery) and resigned from the Army on August 1, 1865.\n\nOn July 9, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Colonel Adams for the award of the rank of brevet (honorary) brigadier general, United States Volunteers, \"for distinguished gallantry and efficiency at the battles of Secessionville, South Carolina and South Mountain and Antietam, Maryland and for meritorious services during the war\" to rank from March 13, 1865 and the U. S. Senate confirmed the award on July 23, 1866.\n\nAdams was a Veteran Companion of the Massachusetts Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States (MOLLUS).\n\nOn November 8, 1865, he married Mary Elizabeth Ogden, daughter of Abram Ogden of New York City, NY. The couple had three daughters and twin sons: Mary Ogden (\"Molly\") Adams, Louisa Catherine Adams, Elizabeth Ogden (\"Elise\") Adams, John Adams (1875–1964) the father of Thomas Boylston Adams, and Henry Adams (1875–1951), both of whom graduated Harvard in 1898.\n\nFollowing the Civil War, he was appointed to the Massachusetts Railroad Commission. There he attempted to persuade (rather than coerce) railroads into compliance with accepted business norms. Thomas McCraw called Adams's approach to regulation \"the Sunshine Commission\" since the purpose of the commission was to expose the corrupt business practices in hopes that, once out in the open, the businessmen would be shamed into mending their ways. It was in this vein that he wrote \"Chapters of Erie\". However, true to his regulatory philosophy, he favored the protection of businessmen over that of the consumers. He saw regulation as necessary to protect investors and other businessmen from the capriciousness of a hostile public or the machinations of other unscrupulous stock jobbers. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1871, and was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1891.\n\nCongress distrusted the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) and in 1884 forced it to hire Adams as the new president. Adams had long promoted various reform ideas, as in his book \"Railroads, Their Origin and Problems\" (1878), but he had little practical experience in management. As railroad president, he was successful in getting a good press for the UP, and set up libraries along the route to allow his employees to better themselves. He had poor results dealing with the Knights of Labor labor union. When the Knights of Labor refused extra work in Wyoming in 1885, Adams hired Chinese workers. The result was the Rock Springs massacre, that killed scores of Chinese, and drove all the rest out of Wyoming. He tried to build a complex network of alliances with other businesses, but they provided little help to the UP. He had great difficulty in making decisions, and in coordinating his subordinates. Adams was unable to stanch the worsening financial condition of the UP, and in 1890 the railroad's owner Jay Gould forced his resignation.\n\nFrom 1893 to 1895, he was chairman of the Massachusetts Park Commission, and as such took a prominent part in planning the present park system of the state. He was influential in establishing the Blue Hills Reservation and the Middlesex Fells Reservation.\n\nIn 1900, he wrote a letter to the President of the Massachusetts Single Tax League, declaring himself a supporter of the reform Henry George had proposed, which would later be known as Georgism. An excerpt of that letter appeared in The Outlook, December 15, 1900.\n\nAfter 1874, he devoted much of his time to the study of American history, and in recognition of his work in this field was chosen president of the Massachusetts Historical Society in 1895, and of the American Historical Association in 1901. His writings and addresses both on problems of railway management and on historical subjects frequently gave rise to widespread controversy. Adams also wrote an autobiography which he completed in 1912 and which was published posthumously in 1916. At the beginning of the autobiography is a memorial address about Adams written by Henry Cabot Lodge. In 1875, he published an essay on \"The Granger Movement\" in the North Atlantic Review which exposes the railroad rate rigging and monopoly practices which prompted the movement.\n\nHis siblings include: older sister Louisa Catherine Adams, wife of Charles Kuhn, of Philadelphia; older brother [Hon.] John Quincy Adams II, father of Charles Francis Adams III; historian Henry Brooks Adams; Arthur Adams, who died young during their childhood; Mary Adams, who married Henry Parker Quincy, of Dedham, MA; and historian Peter Chardon Brooks Adams, of Beverly Farms, MA. who married Evelyn Davis.\n\nAdams died May 20, 1915. He is buried in Mount Wollaston Cemetery in Quincy, Massachusetts. His grave can be found in the Old Section, Lot 337.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50723558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50723558", "title": "Cosmology (philosophy)", "text": "Cosmology (philosophy)\n\nPhilosophical cosmology, philosophy of cosmology or philosophy of cosmos is a discipline directed to the philosophical contemplation of the universe as a totality, and to its conceptual foundations. It draws on several branches of philosophy—metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy of physics, philosophy of science, philosophy of mathematics, and on the fundamental theories of physics. The term \"cosmology\" was used at least as early as 1730, by German philosopher Christian Wolff, in \"Cosmologia Generalis\". \n\nPhilosophical cosmology can be distinguished by two types of cosmological arguments: deductive and inductive cosmological arguments. The first type has a long tradition in the history of philosophy, proposed by thinkers like Plato, Aristotle, Descartes and Leibniz, and criticized by thinkers like David Hume, Immanuel Kant and Bertrand Russell, while the latter has been formulated by philosophers like Richard Swinburne.\n\nFor Leibniz, all the plenum of the universe is entirely filled with tiny Monads, which cannot fail, have no constituent parts and have no windows through which anything could come in or go out. In his \"Aesthetics\", philosopher José Vasconcelos explains his theory on the evolution of the universe and the restructuring of its cosmic substance, in the physical, biological and human orders.\n\nPhilosophical cosmology tries to respond questions such as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14832576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14832576", "title": "Cristina Bicchieri", "text": "Cristina Bicchieri\n\nCristina Bicchieri (born 1950) is an Italian–American philosopher. She is the S.J.P. Harvie Professor of Social Thought and Comparative Ethics in the Philosophy and Psychology Departments at the University of Pennsylvania, professor of Legal Studies in the Wharton School, and director of the Philosophy, Politics and Economics program. She has worked on problems in the philosophy of social science, rational choice and game theory. More recently, her work has focused on the nature and evolution of social norms, and the design of behavioral experiments to test under which conditions norms will be followed. She is a leader in the field of behavioral ethics and is the director of the Behavioral Ethics Lab (BeLab) at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nBicchieri was born in Milan, Italy. She received her Laurea in Philosophy, \"summa cum laude\", from the University of Milan in 1974, and her PhD in Philosophy of Science at Cambridge University in 1984. Before moving to the University of Pennsylvania she taught in the program of Philosophy and Economics at Barnard College, Columbia University, in the Philosophy department at Notre Dame University and in the departments of Philosophy and Social and Decision Sciences at Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nShe is also a member of the advisory board at the School of Government at LUISS University of Rome, where she occasionally teaches.\n\nBicchieri has served as a consultant to UNICEF since 2008, and she has advised various NGOs and other international organizations on social norms and how to deal with them when combating negative social practices. Her work on social norms has been adopted by UNICEF in its campaigns to eliminate practices that violate human rights.\n\nShe was knighted Cavaliere Ordine al Merito della Republica Italiana in 2007.\n\nBicchieri is especially known for her work regarding the epistemic foundations of game theory and social norms. Her recent experimental work is a major contribution to behavioral ethics, as it shows how different kind of expectations influence pro-social behavior. The Behavioral Ethics Lab which she leads specializes in the study of social norms, moral heuristics, biases, resource division, cheating, corruption, measures of autonomy and their relation to social change.\n\nBicchieri has developed a new theory of social norms that challenges several of the fundamental methodological assumptions of the social sciences. She argues that the stress social scientists place upon rational deliberation obscures the fact that many successful choices occur even though the individuals make their choices without much deliberation. She explores in depth the more automatic components of coordination and proposes a heuristic account of coordination that complements the more traditional deliberational account. According to her heuristic account, individuals conform with a social norm as an automatic response to cues in their situation that focus their attention on this particular norm. A social norm is analyzed as a rule for choosing in a mixed-motive game, such as the prisoner's dilemma, that members of a population prefer to follow on condition that they expect sufficiently many in the population to follow the rule. Bicchieri applies this account of social norms and heuristic selection of norms to a number of important problems in the social sciences, including bargaining, the prisoners' dilemma and suboptimal norms based upon pluralistic ignorance.\n\nHer most recent research is experimental, showing how normative and empirical expectations support norm compliance, and how manipulating such expectations can radically change behavior. Her experimental results show that most subjects have a conditional preference for following pro-social norms. Manipulating their expectations causes major behavioral changes (i.e., from fair to unfair choices, from cooperation to defection). She asserts that there are no such things as stable dispositions or unconditional preferences (to be fair, reciprocate, cooperate, and so on). She similarly concludes that policymakers who want to induce pro-social behavior have to work on changing people's expectations about how others behave and how others think one should behave in similar situations (i.e. people's empirical and normative expectations). These results have major consequences for our understanding of moral behavior and the construction of better normative theories, grounded on what people can in fact do.\n\nBicchieri pioneered work on counterfactuals and belief-revision in games, and the consequences of relaxing the common knowledge assumption. Her contributions include axiomatic models of players' theory of the game and the proof that—in a large class of games—a player's theory of the game is consistent only if the player's knowledge is limited. An important consequence of assuming bounded knowledge is that it allows for more intuitive solutions to familiar games such as the finitely repeated prisoner's dilemma or the chain-store paradox. Bicchieri has also devised mechanical procedures (algorithms) that allow players to compute solutions for games of perfect and imperfect information. Devising such procedures is particularly important for Artificial Intelligence applications, since interacting software agents have to be programmed to play a variety of 'games'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17902829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17902829", "title": "Empirical limits in science", "text": "Empirical limits in science\n\nIn philosophy of science, the empirical limits of science define problems with observation, and thus are limits of human ability to inquire and answer questions about phenomena. These include topics such as infinity, the future and god. In the 20th century several of these were well-documented or proposed in physics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10073", "title": "Epicurus", "text": "Epicurus\n\nEpicurus (341–270 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher who founded a highly influential school of philosophy now called Epicureanism. He was born on the Greek island of Samos to Athenian parents. Influenced by Democritus, Aristotle, and possibly the Cynics, he turned against the Platonism of his day and established his own school, known as \"the Garden\", in Athens. He and his followers were known for eating simple meals and discussing a wide range of philosophical subjects, and he openly allowed women to join the school as a matter of policy. An extremely prolific writer, he is said to have originally written over 300 works on various subjects, but the vast majority of these writings have been lost. Only three letters written by him—the \"Letters to Menoeceus\", \"Pythocles\", and \"Herodotus\"—and two collections of quotes—the \"Principle Doctrines\" and the \"Vatican Sayings\"—have survived intact, along with a few fragments and quotations of his other writings. His teachings are better recorded in the writings of later authors, including the Roman poet Lucretius, the philosopher Philodemus, the philosopher Sextus Empiricus, and the biographer Diogenes Laërtius.\n\nFor Epicurus, the purpose of philosophy was to attain the happy, tranquil life, characterized by \"ataraxia\"—peace and freedom from fear— and \"aponia\"—the absence of pain— and by living a self-sufficient life surrounded by friends. He taught that the root of all human neurosis is death denial, and the tendency for human beings to assume that death will be horrific and painful, which he claimed causes unnecessary anxiety, selfish self-protective behaviors, and hypocrisy. According to Epicurus, death is the end of both the body and the soul and therefore should not be feared. Likewise, Epicurus taught that the gods, though they do exist, have no involvement in human affairs and do not punish or reward people for their actions. Nonetheless, he maintained that people should still behave ethically because amoral behavior will burden them with guilt and prevent them from attaining \"ataraxia\".\n\nLike Aristotle, Epicurus was an empiricist, meaning he believed that the senses are the only reliable source of knowledge about the world. He derived much of his physics and cosmology from the earlier philosopher Democritus ( 460— 370 BC). Like Democritus, Epicurus taught that the universe is infinite and eternal and that all matter is made up of extremely tiny, invisible particles known as \"atoms\". All occurrences in the natural world are ultimately the result of atoms moving and interacting in empty space. Epicurus deviated from Democritus in his teaching of atomic \"swerve\", which holds that atoms may deviate from their expected course, thus permitting humans to possess free will in an otherwise deterministic universe.\n\nThough popular, Epicurean teachings were controversial from the beginning. Epicureanism reached the height of its popularity during the late years of the Roman Republic, before declining as the rival school of Stoicism grew in popularity at its expense. It finally died out in late antiquity in the wake of early Christianity. Epicurus himself was popularly, though inaccurately, remembered throughout the Middle Ages as a patron of drunkards, whoremongers, and gluttons. His teachings gradually became more widely known in the fifteenth century with the rediscovery of important texts, but his ideas did not become acceptable until the seventeenth century, when the French Catholic priest Pierre Gassendi revived a modified version of them, which was promoted by other writers, including Walter Charleton and Robert Boyle. His influence grew considerably during and after the Enlightenment, profoundly impacting the ideas of major thinkers, including John Locke, Thomas Jefferson, Jeremy Bentham, and Karl Marx.\n\nEpicurus was born in the Athenian settlement on the Aegean island of Samos in February 341 BC. His parents, Neocles and Chaerestrate, were both Athenian-born, and his father was an Athenian citizen. Epicurus grew up during the final years of the Greek Classical Period. Plato had died seven years before Epicurus was born and Epicurus was seven years old when Alexander the Great crossed the Hellespont into Persia. As a child, Epicurus, would have received a typical ancient Greek education. As such, according to Norman Wentworth DeWitt, \"it is inconceivable that he would have escaped the Platonic training in geometry, dialectic, and rhetoric.\" Epicurus is known to have studied under the instruction of a Samian Platonist named Pamphilus, probably for about four years. His \"Letter of Menoeceus\" and surviving fragments of his other writings strongly suggest that he had extensive training in rhetoric. After the death of Alexander the Great, Perdiccas expelled the Athenian settlers on Samos to Colophon, on the coast of what is now Turkey. After the completion of his military service, Epicurus joined his family there. He studied under Nausiphanes, who followed the teachings of Democritus.\n\nEpicurus's teachings were heavily influenced by those of earlier philosophers, particularly Democritus. Nonetheless, Epicurus differed from his predecessors on several key points of determinism and vehemently denied having been influenced by any previous philosophers, whom he denounced as \"confused\". Instead, he insisted that he had been \"self-taught\". According to DeWitt, Epicurus's teachings also show influences from the contemporary philosophical school of Cynicism. The Cynic philosopher Diogenes of Sinope was still alive when Epicurus would have been in Athens for his required military training and it is possible they may have met. Diogenes's pupil Crates of Thebes ( 365 – 285 BC) was a close contemporary of Epicurus. Epicurus agreed with the Cynics' quest for honesty, but rejected their \"insolence and vulgarity\", instead teaching that honesty must be coupled with courtesy and kindness. Epicurus shared this view with his contemporary, the comic playwright Menander.\n\nEpicurus's \"Letter to Menoeceus\", possibly an early work of his, is written in an eloquent style similar to that of the Athenian rhetorician Isocrates (436–338 BC), but, for his later works, he seems to have adopted the bald, intellectual style of the mathematician Euclid. Epicurus's epistemology also bears an unacknowledged debt to the later writings of Aristotle (384–322 BC), who rejected the Platonic idea of hypostatic Reason and instead relied on nature and empirical evidence for knowledge about the universe. During Epicurus's formative years, Greek knowledge about the rest of the world was rapidly expanding due to the Hellenization of the Near East and the rise of Hellenistic kingdoms. Epicurus's philosophy was consequently more universal in its outlook than those of his predecessors, since it took cognizance of non-Greek peoples as well as Greeks. He may have had access to the now-lost writings of the historian and ethnographer Megasthenes, who wrote during the reign of Seleucus I Nicator (ruled 305–281 BC).\n\nDuring Epicurus's lifetime, Platonism was the dominant philosophy in higher education. Epicurus's radical opposition to Platonism drove the development of a large part of his thought. Over half of the forty Authorized Doctrines of Epicureanism are flat contradictions of Platonism. In around 311 BC, Epicurus, when he was only around thirty years old, began teaching in Mytilene. Around this time, Zeno of Citium, the founder of Stoicism, arrived in Athens at the age of about twenty-one. Although later texts, such as the writings of the first-century BC Roman orator Cicero, portray Epicureanism and Stoicism as rivals, this rivalry seems to have only emerged in later times and did not exist during Epicurus's own lifetime. Zeno, however, did not begin teaching until long after Epicurus.\n\nEpicurus's teachings caused strife in Mytilene and he was forced to leave. He then founded a school in Lampsacus before returning to Athens in 306 BC, where he remained until his death. There he founded The Garden (κῆπος), a school named for the garden he owned that served as the school's meeting place, about halfway between the locations of two other schools of philosophy, the Stoa and the Academy. The Garden was more than just a school; according to Pamela Gordon, it was \"a community of like-minded and aspiring practitioners of a particular way of life.\" The primary members were Hermarchus, the financier Idomeneus, Leonteus and his wife Themista, the satirist Colotes, the mathematician Polyaenus of Lampsacus, Leontion, and Metrodorus of Lampsacus, the most famous popularizer of Epicureanism. His school was the first of the ancient Greek philosophical schools to admit women as a rule rather than an exception. An inscription on the gate to The Garden is recorded by Seneca the Younger in epistle XXI of \"Epistulae morales ad Lucilium\": \"Stranger, here you will do well to tarry; here our highest good is pleasure.\"\n\nAccording to Diskin Clay, Epicurus himself established a custom of celebrating his birthday annually with common meals, befitting his stature as \"heros ktistes\" (\"founding hero\") of the Garden. He ordained in his will annual memorial feasts for himself on the same date (10th of Gamelion month). Epicurean communities continued this tradition, referring to Epicurus as their \"saviour\" (soter) and celebrating him as hero. The hero cult of Epicurus may have operated as a Garden variety civic religion. However, clear evidence of an Epicurean hero cult, as well as the cult itself, seems buried by the weight of posthumous philosophical interpretation. Epicurus never married and had no known children. He was most likely a vegetarian.\n\nDiogenes Laërtius records that, according to Epicurus's successor Hermarchus, Epicurus died a slow and painful death in 270 BC at the age of seventy-two from a stone blockage of his urinary tract. Despite being in immense pain, Epicurus is said to have remained cheerful and to have continued to teach until the very end. Possible insights into Epicurus's death may be offered by the extremely brief \"Epistle to Idomeneus\", included by Diogenes Laërtius in Book X of his \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\". The authenticity of this letter is uncertain and it may be a later pro-Epicurean forgery intended to paint an admirable portrait of the philosopher to counter the large number of forged epistles in Epicurus's name portraying him unfavorably.\n\nI have written this letter to you on a happy day to me, which is also the last day of my life. For I have been attacked by a painful inability to urinate, and also dysentery, so violent that nothing can be added to the violence of my sufferings. But the cheerfulness of my mind, which comes from the recollection of all my philosophical contemplation, counterbalances all these afflictions. And I beg you to take care of the children of Metrodorus, in a manner worthy of the devotion shown by the young man to me, and to philosophy.\n\nIf authentic, this letter would support the tradition that Epicurus was able to remain joyful to the end, even in the midst of his suffering. It would also indicate that he maintained an especial concern for the wellbeing of children.\n\nEpicurus and his followers had a well-developed epistemology, which developed as a result of their rivalry with other philosophical schools. Nonetheless, this epistemology is never fully and clearly explained in any one surviving text and scholars are dependent on an array of different texts for information on it. Epicurus wrote a treatise entitled , or \"Rule\", in which he explained his methods of investigation and theory of knowledge. This book, however, has not survived. Like Aristotle, Epicurus was an ardent Empiricist; he believed that the senses are the only reliable sources of information about the world. He rejected the Platonic idea of \"Reason\" as a reliable source of knowledge about the world apart from the senses and was bitterly opposed to the Skeptics, who not only questioned the ability of the senses to provide accurate knowledge about the world, but also whether it is even possible to know anything about the world at all.\n\nEpicurus maintained that the senses never deceive humans, but that the senses can be misinterpreted by the mind. Epicurus held that the purpose of all knowledge is to aid humans in attaining \"ataraxia\". He taught that knowledge is learned through experiences rather than innate and that the acceptance of the fundamental truth of the things a person perceives is essential to a person's moral and spiritual health. In the \"Letter to Pythocles\", he states, \"If a person fights the clear evidence of his senses he will never be able to share in genuine tranquility.\" Epicurus regarded gut feelings as the ultimate authority on matters of morality and held that whether a person feels an action is right or wrong is a far more cogent guide to whether that act really is right or wrong than abstracts maxims, strict codified rules of ethics, or even reason itself.\n\nEpicurus permitted that any and every statement that is not directly contrary to human perception has the possibility to be true. Nonetheless, anything contrary to a person's experience can be ruled out as false. Epicureans often used analogies to everyday experience to support their argument of so-called \"imperceptibles\", which included anything that a human being cannot perceive, such as the motion of atoms. In line with this principle of noncontradiction, the Epicureans believed that events in the natural world may have multiple causes that are all equally possible and probable:\nThere are also some things for which it is not enough to state a single cause, but several, of which one, however, is the case. Just as if you were to see the lifeless corpse of a man lying far away, it would be fitting to list all the causes of death in order to make sure that the single cause of this death may be stated. For you would not be able to establish conclusively that he died by the sword or of cold or of illness or perhaps by poison, but we know that there is something of this kind that happened to him.\nEpicurus strongly favored naturalistic explanations over theological ones. In his \"Letter to Pythocles\", he offers four different possible natural explanations for thunder, six different possible natural explanations for lightning, three for snow, three for comets, two for rainbows, two for earthquakes, and so on. Although all of these explanations are now known to be false, they were an important step in the history of science, because Epicurus was trying to explain natural phenomena using natural explanations, rather than resorting to inventing elaborate stories about gods and mythic heroes.\n\nEpicurus was a hedonist, meaning he taught that what is pleasurable is morally good and what is painful is morally evil. He idiosyncratically defined \"pleasure\" as the absence of suffering and taught that all humans should seek to attain the state of \"ataraxia\", meaning \"untroubledness\", a state in which the person is completely free from all pain or suffering. He argued that most of the suffering which human beings experience is caused by the irrational fears of death, divine retribution, and punishment in the afterlife. In his \"Letter to Menoeceus\", Epicurus explains that people seek wealth and power on account of these fears, believing that having more money, prestige, or political clout will save them from death. He, however, maintains that death is the end of existence, that the terrifying stories of punishment in the afterlife are ridiculous superstitions, and that death is therefore nothing to be feared. He writes in his \"Letter to Menoeceus\": \"Accustom thyself to believe that death is nothing to us, for good and evil imply sentience, and death is the privation of all sentience;... Death, therefore, the most awful of evils, is nothing to us, seeing that, when we are, death is not come, and, when death is come, we are not.\" From this doctrine arose the Epicurean epitaph: \"Non fui, fui, non sum, non curo\" (\"I was not; I was; I am not; I do not care\"), which is inscribed on the gravestones of his followers and seen on many ancient gravestones of the Roman Empire. This quotation is often used today at humanist funerals.\n\nAlthough Epicurus has been commonly misunderstood as an advocate of the rampant pursuit of pleasure, he, in fact, maintained that a person can only be happy and free from suffering by living wisely, soberly, and morally. He strongly disapproved of raw, excessive sensuality and warned that a person must take into account whether the consequences of his actions will result in suffering, writing, \"the pleasant life is produced not by a string of drinking bouts and revelries, nor by the enjoyment of boys and women, nor by fish and the other items on an expensive menu, but by sober reasoning.\" He also wrote that a single good piece of cheese could be equally pleasing as an entire feast. Furthermore, Epicurus taught that \"it is not possible to live pleasurably without living sensibly and nobly and justly\", because a person who engages in acts of dishonesty or injustice will be \"loaded with troubles\" on account of his own guilty conscious and will live in constant fear that his wrongdoings will be discovered by others. A person who is kind and just to others, however, will have no fear and will be more likely to attain \"ataraxia\".\n\nEpicurus distinguished between two different types of pleasure: \"moving\" pleasures (κατὰ κίνησιν ἡδοναί) and \"static\" pleasures (καταστηματικαὶ ἡδοναί). \"Moving\" pleasures occur when one is in the process of satisfying a desire and involve an active titillation of the senses. After one's desires have been satisfied (e.g. when one is full after eating), the pleasure quickly goes away and the suffering of wanting to fulfill the desire again returns. For Epicurus, static pleasures are the best pleasures because moving pleasures are always bound up with pain. Epicurus had a low opinion of sex and marriage, regarding both as having dubious value. Instead, he maintained that platonic friendships are essential to living a happy life. One of the \"Principle Doctrines\" states, \"Of the things wisdom acquires for the blessedness of life as a whole, far the greatest is the possession of friendship.\" He also taught that philosophy is itself a pleasure to engage in. One of the quotes from Epicurus recorded in the \"Vatican Sayings\" declares, \"In other pursuits, the hard-won fruit comes at the end. But in philosophy, delight keeps pace with knowledge. It is not after the lesson that enjoyment comes: learning and enjoyment happen at the same time.\"\n\nEpicurus' teachings were introduced into medical philosophy and practice by the Epicurean doctor Asclepiades of Bithynia, who was the first physician who introduced Greek medicine in Rome. Asclepiades introduced the friendly, sympathetic, pleasing and painless treatment of patients. He advocated humane treatment of mental disorders, had insane persons freed from confinement and treated them with natural therapy, such as diet and massages. His teachings are surprisingly modern, therefore Asclepiades is considered to be a pioneer physician in psychotherapy, physical therapy and molecular medicine.\n\nEpicurus writes in his \"Letter to Herodotus\" that \"nothing ever arises from the nonexistent\", indicating that all events therefore have causes, regardless of whether those causes are known or unknown. Similarly, he also writes that nothing ever passes away into nothingness, because, \"if an object that passes from our view were completely annihilated, everything in the world would have perished, since that into which things were dissipated would be nonexistent.\" He therefore states: \"The totality of things was always just as it is at present and will always remain the same because there is nothing into which it can change, inasmuch as there is nothing outside the totality that could intrude and effect change.\" Like Democritus before him, Epicurus taught that all matter is entirely made of extremely tiny particles called \"atoms\" (; \"\", meaning \"indivisible\"). For Epicurus and his followers, the existence of atoms was a matter of empirical observation; Epicurus's devoted follower, the Roman poet Lucretius, cites the gradual wearing down of rings from being worn, statues from being kissed, stones from being dripped on by water, and roads from being walked on in \"On the Nature of Things\" as evidence for the existence of atoms as tiny, imperceptible particles.\n\nAlso like Democritus, Epicurus was a materialist who taught that the only things that exist are atoms and void. Void occurs in any place where there are no atoms. Epicurus and his followers believed that atoms and void are both infinite and that the universe is therefore boundless. In \"On the Nature of Things\", Lucretius argues this point using the example of a man throwing a javelin at the theoretical boundary of a finite universe. He states that the javelin must either go past the edge of the universe, in which case it is not really a boundary, or it must be blocked by something and prevented from continuing its path, but, if that happens, then the object blocking it must be outside the confines of the universe. As a result of this belief that the universe and the number of atoms in it are infinite, Epicurus and the Epicureans believed that there must also be infinitely many worlds within the universe.\n\nEpicurus taught that the motion of atoms is constant, eternal, and without beginning or end. He held that there are two kinds of motion: the motion of atoms and the motion of visible objects. Both kinds of motion are real and not illusory. Democritus had described atoms as not only eternally moving, but also eternally flying through space, colliding, coalescing, and separating from each other as necessary. In a rare departure from Democritus's physics, Epicurus posited the idea of atomic \"swerve\" ( \"\"; ), one of his best-known original ideas. According to this idea, atoms, as they are travelling through space, may deviate slightly from the course they would ordinarily be expected to follow. Epicurus's reason for introducing this doctrine was because he wanted to preserve the concepts of free will and ethical responsibility while still maintaining the deterministic physical model of atomism. Lucretius describes it, saying, \"It is this slight deviation of primal bodies, at indeterminate times and places, which keeps the mind as such from experiencing an inner compulsion in doing everything it does and from being forced to endure and suffer like a captive in chains.\"\n\nEpicurus was first to assert human freedom as a result of the fundamental indeterminism in the motion of atoms. This has led some philosophers to think that, for Epicurus, free will was \"caused directly by chance\". In his \"On the Nature of Things\", Lucretius appears to suggest this in the best-known passage on Epicurus' position. In his \"Letter to Menoeceus\", however, Epicurus follows Aristotle and clearly identifies \"three\" possible causes: \"some things happen of necessity, others by chance, others through our own agency.\" Aristotle said some things \"depend on us\" (\"eph'hemin\"). Epicurus agreed, and said it is to these last things that praise and blame naturally attach. For Epicurus, the \"swerve\" of the atoms simply defeated determinism to leave room for autonomous agency.\n\nIn his \"Letter to Menoeceus\", a summary of his own moral and theological teachings, the first piece of advice Epicurus himself gives to his student is: \"First, believe that a god is an indestructible and blessed animal, in accordance with the general conception of god commonly held, and do not ascribe to god anything foreign to his indestructibility or repugnant to his blessedness.\" Epicurus maintained that he and his followers knew that the gods exist because \"our knowledge of them is a matter of clear and distinct perception\", meaning that people can empirically sense their presences. He did not mean that people can see the gods as physical objects, but rather that they can see visions of the gods sent from the remote regions of interstellar space in which they actually reside. According to George K. Strodach, Epicurus could have easily dispensed of the gods entirely without greatly altering his materialist worldview, but the gods still play one important function in Epicurus's theology as the paragons of moral virtue to be emulated and admired.\n\nEpicurus rejected the conventional Greek view of the gods as anthropomorphic beings who walked the earth like ordinary people, fathered illegitimate offspring with mortals, and pursued personal feuds. Instead, he taught that the gods are morally perfect, but detached and immobile beings who live in the remote regions of interstellar space. In line with these teachings, Epicurus adamantly rejected the idea that deities were involved in human affairs in any way. Epicurus maintained that the gods are so utterly perfect and removed from the world that they are incapable of listening to prayers or supplications or doing virtually anything aside from contemplating their own perfections. In his \"Letter to Herodotus\", he specifically denies that the gods have any control over natural phenomena, arguing that this would contradict their fundamental nature, which is perfect, because any kind of worldly involvement would tarnish their perfection. He further warned that believing that the gods control natural phenomena would only mislead people into believing the superstitious view that the gods punish humans for wrongdoing, which only instills fear and prevents people from attaining \"ataraxia\".\n\nEpicurus himself criticizes popular religion in both his \"Letter to Menoeceus\" and his \"Letter to Herodotus\", but in a restrained and moderate tone. Later Epicureans mainly followed the same ideas as Epicurus, believing in the existence of the gods, but emphatically rejecting the idea of divine providence. Their criticisms of popular religion, however, are often less gentle than those of Epicurus himself. The \"Letter to Pythocles\", written by a later Epicurean, is dismissive and contemptuous towards popular religion and Epicurus's devoted follower, the Roman poet Lucretius ( 99 BC – 55 BC), passionately assailed popular religion in his philosophical poem \"On the Nature of Things\". In this poem, Lucretius declares that popular religious practices not only do not instill virtue, but rather result in \"misdeeds both wicked and ungodly\", citing the mythical sacrifice of Iphigenia as an example. Lucretius argues that divine creation and providence are illogical, not because the gods do not exist, but rather because these notions are incompatible with the Epicurean principles of the gods' indestructability and blessedness. The later Skeptic philosopher Sextus Empiricus ( 160 – 210 AD) rejected the teachings of the Epicureans specifically because he regarded them as theological \"Dogmaticists\".\n\nThe Epicurean paradox or riddle of Epicurus or Epicurus' trilemma is a version of the problem of evil. Lactantius attributes this trilemma to Epicurus in \"De Ira Dei\":\nGod, he says, either wishes to take away evils, and is unable; or He is able, and is unwilling; or He is neither willing nor able, or He is both willing and able. If He is willing and is unable, He is feeble, which is not in accordance with the character of God; if He is able and unwilling, He is envious, which is equally at variance with God; if He is neither willing nor able, He is both envious and feeble, and therefore not God; if He is both willing and able, which alone is suitable to God, from what source then are evils? Or why does He not remove them?\nIn \"Dialogues concerning Natural Religion\" (1779), David Hume also attributes the argument to Epicurus:\nEpicurus’s old questions are yet unanswered. Is he willing to prevent evil, but not able? then is he impotent. Is he able, but not willing? then is he malevolent. Is he both able and willing? whence then is evil?\nNo extant writings of Epicurus contain this argument. However, the vast majority of Epicurus's writings have been lost and it is possible that some form of this argument may have been found in his lost treatise \"On the Gods\", which Diogenes Laërtius describes as one of his greatest works. If Epicurus really did make some form of this argument, it would not have been an argument against the existence of deities, but rather an argument against divine providence. Epicurus's extant writings demonstrate that he did believe in the existence of deities. Furthermore, religion was such an integral part of daily life in Greece during the early Hellenistic Period that it is doubtful anyone during that period could have been an atheist in the modern sense of the word. Instead, the Greek word (\"átheos\"), meaning \"without a god\", was used as a term of abuse, not as an attempt to describe a person's beliefs.\n\nIn contrast to the Stoics, Epicureans showed little interest in participating in the politics of the day, since doing so leads to trouble. He instead advocated seclusion. This principle is epitomised by the phrase \"lathe biōsas\" (), meaning \"live in obscurity\", \"get through life without drawing attention to yourself\", i.e., live without pursuing glory or wealth or power, but anonymously, enjoying little things like food, the company of friends, etc. Plutarch elaborated on this theme in his essay \"Is the Saying \"Live in Obscurity\" Right?\" (, \"An recte dictum sit latenter esse vivendum\") 1128c; cf. Flavius Philostratus, \"Vita Apollonii\" 8.28.12.\n\nBut the Epicureans did have an innovative theory of justice as a social contract. Justice, Epicurus said, is an agreement neither to harm nor be harmed, and we need to have such a contract in order to enjoy fully the benefits of living together in a well-ordered society. Laws and punishments are needed to keep misguided fools in line who would otherwise break the contract. But the wise person sees the usefulness of justice, and because of his limited desires, he has no need to engage in the conduct prohibited by the laws in any case. Laws that are useful for promoting happiness are just, but those that are not useful are not just. (\"Principal Doctrines\" 31–40)\n\nEpicurus was an extremely prolific writer. According to Diogenes Laërtius, he wrote around 300 treatises on a variety of subjects. More original writings of Epicurus have survived to the present day than of any other Hellenistic Greek philosopher. Nonetheless, the vast majority of everything he wrote has now been lost and most of what is known about Epicurus's teachings come from the writings of his later followers, particularly the Roman poet Lucretius. The only surviving complete works by Epicurus are three relatively lengthy letters, which are quoted in their entirety in Book X of Diogenes Laërtius's \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\", and two groups of quotes: the \"Principal Doctrines\" (Κύριαι Δόξαι), which are likewise preserved through quotation by Diogenes Laërtius, and the \"Vatican Sayings\", preserved in a manuscript from the Vatican Library that was first discovered in 1888. In the \"Letter to Herodotus\" and the \"Letter to Pythocles\", Epicurus summarizes his philosophy on nature and, in the \"Letter to Menoeceus\", he summarizes his moral teachings. Numerous fragments of Epicurus's lost thirty-seven volume treatise \"On Nature\" have been found among the charred papyrus fragments at the Villa of the Papyri at Herculaneum. Scholars first began attempting to unravel and decipher these scrolls in 1800, but the efforts are painstaking and are still ongoing.\n\nAccording to Diogenes Laertius (10.27-9), the major works of Epicurus include:\n\nEpicureanism was extremely popular from the very beginning. Diogenes Laërtius records that the number of Epicureans throughout the world exceeded the populations of entire cities. Nonetheless, Epicurus was not universally admired and, within his own lifetime, he was vilified as an ignorant buffoon and egoistic sybarite. He remained the most simultaneously admired and despised philosopher in the Mediterranean for the next nearly five centuries. Epicureanism rapidly spread beyond the Greek mainland all across the Mediterranean world. By the first century BC, it had established a strong foothold in Italy. The Roman orator Cicero (106 – 43 BC), who deplored Epicurean ethics, lamented, \"the Epicureans have taken Italy by storm.\"\n\nThe overwhelming majority of surviving Greek and Roman sources are vehemently negative towards Epicureanism and, according to Gordon, they routinely depict Epicurus himself as \"monstrous or laughable\". Many Romans in particular took a negative view of Epicureanism, seeing its advocacy of the pursuit of \"voluptas\" (\"pleasure\") as contrary to the Roman ideal of \"virtus\" (\"manly virtue\"). The Romans therefore often stereotyped Epicurus and his followers as weak and effeminate. Prominent critics of his philosophy include prominent authors such as the Roman Stoic Seneca the Younger ( 4 BC – AD 65) and the Greek Middle Platonist Plutarch ( 46 – 120), who both derided it as immoral and disreputable. Gordon characterizes anti-Epicurean rhetoric as so \"heavy-handed\" and misrepresentative of Epicurus's actual teachings that they sometimes come across as \"comical\". In his \"De vita beata\", Seneca states that the \"sect of Epicurus... has a bad reputation\" and compares it to \"a man in a dress: your chastity remains, your virility is unimpaired, your body has not submitted sexually, but in your hand is a tympanum.\"\n\nEpicureanism was a notoriously conservative philosophical school; although Epicurus's later followers did expand on his philosophy, they dogmatically retained what he himself had originally taught without modifying it. Epicureans and admirers of Epicureanism revered Epicurus himself as a great teacher of ethics, a savior, and even a god. His image was worn on finger rings, portraits of him were displayed in living rooms, and wealthy followers venerated likenesses of him in marble sculpture. His admirers revered his sayings as divine oracles, carried around copies of his writings, and cherished copies of his letters like the letters of an apostle. On the twentieth day of every month, admirers of his teachings would perform a solemn ritual to honor his memory. At the same time, opponents of his teachings denounced him with vehemence and persistence.\n\nHowever, in the first and second centuries AD, Epicureanism gradually began to decline as it failed to compete with Stoicism, which had an ethical system more in line with traditional Roman values. Epicureanism also suffered decay in the wake of Christianity, which was also rapidly expanding throughout the Roman Empire. Of all the Greek philosophical schools, Epicureanism was the one most at odds with the new Christian teachings, since Epicureans believed that the soul was mortal, denied the existence of an afterlife, denied that the divine had any active role in human life, and advocated pleasure as the foremost goal of human existence. As such, Christian writers such as Justin Martyr ( 100– 165 AD), Athenagoras of Athens ( 133– 190), Tertullian ( 155– 240), and Clement of Alexandria ( 150– 215), Arnobius (died 330), and Lactantius all singled it out for the most vitriolic criticism.\n\nIn spite of this, DeWitt argues that Epicureanism and Christianity share much common language, calling Epicureanism \"the first missionary philosophy\" and \"the first world philosophy\". Both Epicureanism and Christianity placed strong emphasis on the importance of love and forgiveness and early Christian portrayals of Jesus are often similar to Epicurean portrayals of Epicurus. DeWitt argues that Epicureanism, in many ways, helped pave the way for the spread of Christianity by \"helping to bridge the gap between Greek intellectualism and a religious way of life\" and \"shunt[ing] the emphasis from the political to the social virtues and offer[ing] what may be called a religion of humanity.\"\n\nBy the early fifth century AD, Epicureanism was virtually extinct. The Christian Church Father Augustine of Hippo (354–430 AD) declared, \"its ashes are so cold that not a single spark can be struck from them.\" While the ideas of Plato and Aristotle could easily be adapted to suit a Christian worldview, the ideas of Epicurus were not nearly as easily amenable. As such, while Plato and Aristotle enjoyed a privileged place in Christian philosophy throughout the Middle Ages, Epicurus was not held in such esteem. Information about Epicurus's teachings was available, through Lucretius's \"On the Nature of Things\", quotations of it found in medieval Latin grammars and \"florilegia\", and encyclopedias, such as Isidore of Seville's \"Etymologiae\" (seventh century) and Hrabanus Maurus's \"De universo\" (ninth century), but there is little evidence that these teachings were systematically studied or comprehended.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Epicurus was remembered by the educated as a philosopher, but he frequently appeared in popular culture as a gatekeeper to the Garden of Delights, the \"proprietor of the kitchen, the tavern, and the brothel.\" He appears in this guise in Martianus Capella's \"Marriage of Mercury and Philology\" (fifth century), John of Salisbury's \"Policraticus\" (1159), John Gower's \"Mirour de l'Omme\", and Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\". Epicurus and his followers appear in Dante Alighieri's \"Inferno\" in the Sixth Circle of Hell, where they are imprisoned in flaming coffins for having believed that the soul dies with the body.\n\nIn 1417, a manuscript-hunter named Poggio Bracciolini discovered a copy of Lucretius's \"On the Nature of Things\" in a monastery near Lake Constance. The discovery of this manuscript was met with immense excitement, because scholars were eager to analyze and study the teachings of classical philosophers and this previously-forgotten text contained the most comprehensive account of Epicurus's teachings known in Latin. The first scholarly dissertation on Epicurus, \"De voluptate\" (\"On Pleasure\") by the Italian Humanist and Catholic priest Lorenzo Valla was published in 1431. Valla made no mention of Lucretius or his poem. Instead, he presented the treatise as a discussion on the nature of the highest good between an Epicurean, a Stoic, and a Christian. Valla's dialogue ultimately rejects Epicureanism, but, by presenting an Epicurean as a member of the dispute, Valla lent Epicureanism credibility as a philosophy that deserved to be taken seriously.\n\nNone of the Quattrocento Humanists ever clearly endorsed Epicureanism, but scholars such as Francesco Zabarella (1360–1417), Francesco Filelfo (1398–1481), Cristoforo Landino (1424–1498), and Leonardo Bruni ( 1370–1444) did give Epicureanism a fairer analysis than it had traditionally received and provided a less overtly hostile assessment of Epicurus himself. Nonetheless, \"Epicureanism\" remained a pejorative, synonymous with extreme egoistic pleasure-seeking, rather than a name of a philosophical school. This reputation discouraged orthodox Christian scholars from taking what others might regard as an inappropriately keen interest in Epicurean teachings. Epicureanism did not take hold in Italy, France, or England until the seventeenth century. Even the liberal religious skeptics who might have been expected to take an interest in Epicureanism evidently did not; Étienne Dolet (1509–1546) only mentions Epicurus once in all his writings and François Rabelais (between 1483 and 1494–1553) never mentions him at all. Michel de Montaigne (1533–1592) is the exception to this trend, quoting a full 450 lines of Lucretius's \"On the Nature of Things\" in his \"Essays\". His interest in Lucretius, however, seems to have been primarily literary and he is ambiguous about his feelings on Lucretius's Epicurean worldview. During the Protestant Reformation, the label \"Epicurean\" was bandied back and forth as an insult between Protestants and Catholics.\n\nIn the seventeenth century, the French Catholic priest and scholar Pierre Gassendi (1592 – 1655) sought to dislodge Aristotelianism from its position of the highest dogma by presenting Epicureanism as a better and more rational alternative. In 1647, Gassendi published his book \"De vita et moribus Epicuri\" (\"The Life and Morals of Epicurus\"), a passionate defense of Epicureanism. In 1649, he published a commentary on Diogenes Laertius's \"Life of Epicurus\". He left \"Syntagma philosophicum\" (\"Philosophical Compendium\"), a synthesis of Epicurean doctrines, unfinished at the time of his death in 1655. It was finally published in 1658, after undergoing revision by his editors. Gassendi modified Epicurus's teachings to make them palatable for a Christian audience. For instance, he argued that atoms were not eternal, uncreated, and infinite in number, instead contending that an extremely large but finite number of atoms were created by God at creation.\n\nAs a result of Gassendi's modifications, his books were never censored by the Catholic Church. They came to exert profound influence on later writings about Epicurus. Gassendi's version of Epicurus's teachings became popular among some members of English scientific circles. For these scholars, however, Epicurean atomism was merely a starting point for their own idiosyncratic adaptations of it. To orthodox thinkers, Epicureanism was still regarded as immoral and heretical. For instance, Lucy Hutchinson (1620 – 1681), the first translator of Lucretius's \"On the Nature of Things\" into English, railed against Epicurus as \"a lunatic dog\" who formulated \"ridiculous, impious, execrable doctrines\".\n\nEpicurus's teachings were made respectable in England by the natural philosopher Walter Charleton (1619 – 1707), whose first Epicurean work, \"The Darkness of Atheism Dispelled by the Light of Nature\" (1652), advanced Epicureanism as a \"new\" atomism. He next work \"Physiologia Epicuro-Gassendo-Charletoniana, or a Fabrick of Science Natural, upon a Hypothesis of Atoms, Founded by Epicurus, Repaired by Petrus Gassendus, and Augmented by Walter Charleton\" (1954) emphasized this idea. These works, together with Charleton's \"Epicurus's Morals\" (1658), provided the English public with readily available descriptions of Epicurus's philosophy and assured orthodox Christians that Epicureanism was no threat to their beliefs. The Royal Society, chartered in 1662, advanced Epicurean atomism. One of the most prolific defenders of atomism was the chemist Robert Boyle (1627 – 1691), who argued for it in publications such as \"The Origins of Forms and Qualities\" (1666), \"Experiments, Notes, etc. about the Mechanical Origin and Production of Divers Particular Qualities\" (1675), and \"Of the Excellency and Grounds of the Mechanical Hypothesis\" (1674). By the end of the seventeenth century, Epicurean atomism was widely accepted by members of the English scientific community as the best model for explaining the physical world, but it had been modified so greatly that Epicurus was no longer seen as its original parent.\n\nThe Anglican bishop Joseph Butler's anti-Epicurean polemics in his \"Fifteen Sermons Preached at the Rolls Chapel\" (1726) and \"Analogy of Religion\" (1736) set the tune for what most orthodox Christians believed about Epicureanism for the remainder of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Nonetheless, there are a few indications from this time period of Epicurus's improving reputation. Epicureanism was beginning to lose its associations with indiscriminate and insatiable gluttony, which had been characteristic of its reputation ever since antiquity. Instead, the word \"epicure\" began to refer to a person with extremely refined taste in food. Examples of this usage include \"Epicurean cooks / sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite\" from William Shakespeare's \"Antony and Cleopatra\" (Act II. scene i; 1607) and \"such an epicure was Potiphar—to please his tooth and pamper his flesh with delicacies\" from William Whately's \"Prototypes\" (1646).\n\nAround the same time, the Epicurean injunction to \"live in obscurity\" was beginning to gain popularity as well. In 1685, Sir William Temple (1628 – 1699) abandoned a promising career as a diplomat and instead retired to his garden, devoting himself to writing essays on Epicurus's moral teachings. That same year, John Dryden translated the celebrated lines from Book II of Lucretius's \"On the Nature of Things\": \"'Tis pleasant, safely to behold from shore / The rowling ship, and hear the Tempest roar.\" Meanwhile, John Locke (1632 – 1704) adapted Gassendi's modified version of Epicurus's epistemology, which became highly influential on English empiricism. Many thinkers with sympathies towards the Enlightenment endorsed Epicureanism as an admirable moral philosophy. Thomas Jefferson (1743 – 1826), one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, declared in 1819, \"I too am an Epicurean. I consider the genuine (not imputed) doctrines of Epicurus as containing everything rational in moral philosophy which Greece and Rome have left us.\"\n\nThe German philosopher Karl Marx (1818 – 1883), whose ideas are basis of Marxism, was profoundly influenced as a young man by the teachings of Epicurus and his doctoral thesis was a Hegelian dialectical analysis of the differences between the natural philosophies of Democritus and Epicurus. Marx viewed Democritus as a rationalist skeptic, whose epistemology was inherently contradictory, but saw Epicurus as a dogmatic empiricist, whose worldview is internally consistent and practically applicable. The British poet Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809 – 1892) praised \"the sober majesties / of settled, sweet, Epicurean life\" in his 1868 poem \"Lucretius\". Epicurus's ethical teachings also had an indirect impact on the philosophy of Utilitarianism in England during the nineteenth century.\n\nAcademic interest in Epicurus and other Hellenistic philosophers increased over the course of the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, with an unprecedented number of monographs, articles, abstracts, and conference papers being published on the subject. The texts from the library of Philodemus of Gadara in the Villa of the Papyri in Herculaneum, first discovered between 1750 and 1765, are being deciphered, translated, and published by scholars part of the Philodemus Translation Project, funded by the United States National Endowment for the Humanities, and part of the Centro per lo Studio dei Papiri Ercolanesi in Naples. Epicurus's popular appeal among non-scholars is difficult to gauge, but it seems to be relatively comparable to the appeal of more traditionally popular ancient Greek philosophical subjects such as Stoicism, Aristotle, and Plato.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8745927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8745927", "title": "Erich Adickes", "text": "Erich Adickes\n\nErich Adickes (29 June 1866, Lesum – 8 July 1928, Tübingen) - German philosopher who wrote many important works on Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) and the Kantian philosophy. Adickes was a critical empiricist (moderate Kantian).\n\nAdickes was born in Lesum (now part of Bremen), and died in Tübingen where he had been professor of philosophy since 1904. He studied theology, philosophy, and history at Tübingen, then at Berlin under Friedrich Paulsen (1846-1908), graduating Dr. Phil. with a dissertation titled \"Kants Systematik als systembildender Factor\" (Berlin: Mayer & Müller, 1887). Habilitating at Kiel in 1895, he became a full professor there in 1898. In 1902 he moved to Münster as full professor, then in 1904 succeeded Christoph von Sigwart (1830-1904) at Tübingen.\n\nAdickes was intimately familiar with Kant’s \"Nachlass\", and exhibited extraordinary scholarship in his contributions to vols. 14-19 of \"Kant's gesammelte Schriften\". \nIn his \"Einleitung in die Abtheilung des handschriftlichen Nachlasses\" (in Kant \"Gesammelte Schriften\", vol XIV, S. XV-LXII, 1925), he tried to date the \"Reflexionen\", but the result is controversial.\n\nAnother important work written by Adickes is entitled \"German Kantian Bibliography - Writings by and on Kant which have appeared in Germany up to the end of 1887\" (Boston: Ginn & Company, 1896) ( Note: This bibliography closes with the year 1804, the date of Kant's death, and does not extend to 1887 as stated in the title of the work.)\n\nAn opponent of Ernst Haeckel (1834-1919), Adickes in his \"Kant contra Haeckel: Erkenntnistheorie gegen naturwissenschaftlichen Dogmatismus\" (Berlin: Reuther & Reichard, 1901) wrote: \"I have no more belief than he in a personal extra-mundane God, a creation of the world by him, or an immaterial soul separated from the body.\"\n\nAdickes is also known for introducing, in 1907, his concept of \"Four World-Views\": Dogmatic (or Doctrinaire), Agnostic (or skeptical), Traditional, and Innovative, which would help shape personality theory in the 20th century.\n"}
{"id": "2486862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2486862", "title": "Five elements (Japanese philosophy)", "text": "Five elements (Japanese philosophy)\n\nThe five elements philosophy in Japanese Buddhism and Hinduism, , is derived from Buddhist beliefs. It is perhaps best known in the Western world for its use in Miyamoto Musashi's famous text \"Gorin-no-sho\" (\"The Book of Five Rings\"), in which he explains different aspects of swordsmanship by assigning each aspect to an element.\n\nThe five elements are Earth, Water, Fire, Wind, and Void.\n\n地 \"Chi\" (sometimes \"ji\") or \"tsuchi\", meaning \"Earth\", represents the hard, solid objects of the earth. The most basic example of \"chi\" is in a stone. Stones are highly resistant to movement or change, as is anything heavily influenced by \"chi\". In people, the bones, muscles and tissues are represented by \"chi\". Emotionally, \"chi\" is predominantly associated with stubbornness, collectiveness, stability, physicality, and gravity. It is a desire to have things remain as they are; a resistance to change. In the mind, it is confidence. When under the influence of this \"chi\" mode or \"mood\", we are aware of our own physicality and sureness of action. This is a separate concept from the energy-force, pronounced in Chinese as \"qì\" (also written \"ch'i\") and in Japanese as \"ki\", and written alternatively as 気, 氣, or 气.\n\n水 \"Sui\" or \"mizu\", meaning \"Water\", represents the fluid, flowing, formless things in the world. Outside of the obvious example of rivers and the lake, plants are also categorized under \"sui\", as they adapt to their environment, growing and changing according to the direction of the sun and the changing seasons. Blood and other bodily fluids are represented by \"sui\", as are mental or emotional tendencies towards adaptation and change. \"Sui\" can be associated with emotion, defensiveness, adaptability, flexibility, suppleness, and magnetism.\n\n火 \"Ka\" or \"hi\", \"Fire\", represents the energetic, forceful, moving things in the world. Animals, capable of movement and full of forceful energy, are primary examples of \"ka\" objects. Bodily, \"ka\" represents our metabolism and body heat, and in the mental and emotional realms, it represents drive and passion. \"ka\" can be associated with security, motivation, desire, intention, and an outgoing spirit.\n\n風 \"Fū\" or \"kaze\", meaning \"Wind\", represents things that grow, expand, and enjoy freedom of movement. Aside from air, smoke, and the like, \"fū\" can in some ways be best represented by the human mind. As we grow physically, we learn and expand mentally as well, in terms of our knowledge, our experiences, and our personalities. \"Fū\" represents breathing, and the internal processes associated with respiration. Mentally and emotionally, it represents an \"open-minded\" attitude and carefree feeling. It can be associated with will, elusiveness, evasiveness, benevolence, compassion, and wisdom.\n\n空 \"Kū\" or \"sora\", most often translated as \"Void\", but also meaning \"sky\" or \"Heaven\", represents those things beyond our everyday experience, particularly those things composed of pure energy. Bodily, \"kū\" represents spirit, thought, and creative energy. It represents our ability to think and to communicate, as well as our creativity. It can also be associated with power, creativity, spontaneity, and inventiveness.\n\n\"Kū\" is of particular importance as the highest of the elements. In martial arts, particularly in fictional tales where the fighting discipline is blended with magic or the occult, one often invokes the power of the Void to connect to the quintessential creative energy of the world. A warrior properly attuned to the Void can sense their surroundings and act without using the mind, and without using their \"physical senses\".\n\nThe most common representations today of the five elements, outside of martial arts and fictional references, are found in Buddhist architecture. Japanese stone lanterns as seen in Zen gardens and Buddhist temples have five divisions which represent the five elements, although the five segments can be hard to discern. The bottom-most piece, touching the ground, represents \"chi\"; the next section represents \"sui\"; \"ka\" is represented by the section encasing the lantern's light or flame, while \"fū\" and \"kū\" are represented by the last two sections, top-most and pointing towards the sky.\n\nAnother common symbol of the five elements is the \"gorintō\", a stone tower of modest size used mainly in Buddhist temples and cemeteries. It is composed from bottom to top of a cube, a sphere, a triangle, a crescent and something resembling a lotus flower, shapes that also have the meaning described above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11004051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11004051", "title": "Franklin I. Gamwell", "text": "Franklin I. Gamwell\n\nFranklin I. Gamwell is a scholar of the philosophy of religion, Christian theology, and philosophical ethics. He is the Shailer Mathews Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Religious Ethics, the Philosophy of Religions, and Theology at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, where he also has served as dean. He is a Presbyterian minister (B.D., Union Theological Seminary) with a strong interest in democracy and justice. \n\nGamwell also serves on the board of directors of Protestants for the Common Good, a nonprofit education and advocacy organization based in Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "31943758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943758", "title": "Gary Cox (philosopher)", "text": "Gary Cox (philosopher)\n\nGary Cox (born 1964, England) is a British philosopher and biographer and the author of several books on Jean-Paul Sartre, existentialism, general philosophy and philosophy of sport.\n\nA Philosophy graduate of the University of Southampton, UK, he was awarded his PhD in 1996 from the University of Birmingham, UK, for his thesis on Jean-Paul Sartre's theory of consciousness, freedom and bad faith and is an honorary research fellow of that same university. His most notable works to date are \"The Sartre Dictionary\" (2008), \"How to Be an Existentialist, or How to Get Real, Get a Grip and Stop Making Excuses\" (2009) and \"The God Confusion: Why Nobody Knows the Answer to the Ultimate Question\" (2013).\n\nCox’s early publications reflect his research into both the philosophical, fictional and biographical writings of Jean-Paul Sartre, with his book, \"The Sartre Dictionary\", providing a comprehensive overview of Sartre’s major works, ideas, influences and contemporaries. From 2009 onwards, with the publication of his best selling book to date, \"How to Be an Existentialist\", Gary Cox took the ideas of existentialism to a wider, non-specialist audience, emphasising the self-help and personal empowerment aspects of the theory. An attack on contemporary 'excuse culture', the work urges the reader to face the hard existential truths of the human condition and to take full responsibility for his or her inalienable freedom. \"How to Be an Existentialist\" has been cited in such diverse areas as existential counselling and management and leadership training.\n\nIn 2010, Cox continued his efforts to popularise philosophy in the UK with the publication of \"How to Be a Philosopher, or How to Be Almost Certain that Almost Nothing is Certain\", a beginners' guide to philosophy written in the same accessible, popular style as \"How to Be an Existentialist\". 2011 saw the publication of his \"Existentialist’s Guide to Death, the Universe and Nothingness\", a guide to key existentialist themes that, as its title suggests, is something of a homage to Douglas Adams. In 2013 Cox published \"The God Confusion\", a controversial book exploring questions concerning the idea and existence of God that is critical of both theism and atheism and advocates agnosticism as the only tenable philosophical position.\n\nBloomsbury Publishing released \"Deep Thought: 42 Fantastic Quotes that Define Philosophy\" in October 2015, and Cox's biography of Jean-Paul Sartre - \"Existentialism and Excess: The Life and Times of Jean-Paul Sartre\" - in September 2016.\n\nCox's new book, \"Cricket Ball: The Heart of the Game\" (Bloomsbury, October 2018) is an excursion into object-oriented ontology and the philosophy, politics, aesthetics and literature of sport. A celebration of the game of cricket, the book explores all aspects of the cricket ball phenomenon, from its ontology, iconic status, history, manufacture and future, to its complex, multifaceted, often controversial role during play. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55263347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55263347", "title": "Georg Boldt", "text": "Georg Boldt\n\nGeorg Didrik Boldt (24 August 1862 – 21 June 1918) was a Finnish philosopher of religion who was known as a socialist and tolstoyan.\n\nBoldt entered the University of Helsinki in 1880. After earning his doctorate in 1902 on the dissertation on the relation between Immanuel Kant and protestantism, Boldt moved to Turku where he worked as a teacher. In the early 1900s, Boldt was interested in socialism. He was a member of the Swedish-speaking socialist group, publishing the 1908 established newspaper \"Arbetet\". Other key members included the businessmen Walter Borg and Ivar Hörhammer, trade unionist William Lundberg, the newspapermen Axel Åhlström and K. H. Wiik, and the university student Allan Wallenius.\n\nBoldt strongly criticized the state, conservative society and the established religious authorities. According to Boldt, the Christian leaders like Paul and Augustine had destorted the words of Jesus Christ. Boldt was influenced by the reneissance philosophers like Thomas More and Tommaso Campanella. He was also familiar with Petr Kropotkin and Mikhail Bakunin, although did not support anarchism, and was particularly interested on the pacifist philosophy of Leo Tolstoy.\n\nWhen the Finnish Civil War broke out in January 1918, Boldt opposed the armed revolution and condemned the violent actions of the local Red Guard. As Germany invaded the Åland Islands in early March, Boldt and William Lundberg had negotiations with the Germans of their potential actions against the Red controlled Turku. The Reds finally left the town on 12 April. Boldt fled to Helsinki, where he was captured in late May. As a keen pacifist, Boldt was shocked by the atrocities of both sides of the war. After having a nervous breakdown, Boldt was taken into a mental institution, where he died in June 1918.\n\nBoldt was born to the family of the general Johan Didrik Boldt and Anna Christina Frosterus, who was the daughter of the bishop Robert Frosterus. His brothers were the local historian Robert Boldt (1861–1923), the anarchist Jean Boldt (1865–1920) and the author Alexander Boldt (1873–1956). Boldt was married with Hildur Katarina Karlsson in 1906. Their son was the military officer Lauri Boldt (1910–1982). He was the commander of the Finnish troops participating the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus in the 1960s.\n\n"}
{"id": "23564885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23564885", "title": "Horizontal gene transfer in evolution", "text": "Horizontal gene transfer in evolution\n\nScientists trying to reconstruct evolutionary history have been challenged by the fact that genes can sometimes transfer between distant branches on the tree of life. This movement of genes can occur through horizontal gene transfer (HGT), scrambling the information on which biologists relied to reconstruct the phylogeny of organisms. Conversely, HGT can also help scientists to reconstruct and date the tree of life. Indeed, a gene transfer can be used as a phylogenetic marker, or as the proof of contemporaneity of the donor and recipient organisms, and as a trace of extinct biodiversity.\n\nHGT happens very infrequently – at the individual organism level, it is highly improbable for any such event to take place. However, on the grander scale of evolutionary history, these events occur with some regularity. On one hand, this forces to abandon the use of individual genes as good markers for the history of life. On the other hand, this provides an almost unexploited large source of information about the past.\n\nThe three main early branches of the tree of life have been intensively studied by microbiologists because the first organisms were microorganisms. Microbiologists (led by Carl Woese) have introduced the term \"domain\" for the three main branches of this tree, where \"domain\" is a phylogenetic term similar in meaning to biological kingdom. To reconstruct this tree of life, the gene sequence encoding the small subunit of ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA, 16s rRNA) has proven useful, and the tree (as shown in the picture) relies heavily on information from this single gene.\n\nThese three domains of life represent the main evolutionary lineages of early cellular life and currently include Bacteria, Archaea (single-celled organisms superficially similar to bacteria), and Eukarya. Eukarya includes only organisms having a well-defined nucleus, such as fungi, protists, and all organisms in the plant and animals kingdoms (see figure).\n\nThe gene most commonly used for constructing phylogenetic relationships in microorganisms is the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene, as its sequences tend to be conserved among members with close phylogenetic distances, yet variable enough that differences can be measured.\n\nThe SSU rRNA as a measure of evolutionary distances was pioneered by Carl Woese when formulating the first modern \"tree of life\", and his results led him to propose the Archaea as a third domain of life. However, recently it has been argued that SSU rRNA genes can also be horizontally transferred. Although this may be rare, this possibility is forcing scrutiny of the validity of phylogenetic trees based on SSU rRNAs.\n\nRecent discoveries of \"rampant\" HGT in microorganisms, and the detection of horizontal movement of even genes for the small subunit of ribosomal RNA, have forced biologists to question the accuracy of at least the early branches in the tree, and even question the validity of trees as useful models of how early evolution occurs. <br>\n\"Sequence comparisons suggest recent horizontal transfer of many genes among diverse species including across the boundaries of phylogenetic \"domains\". Thus determining the phylogenetic history of a species can not be done conclusively by determining evolutionary trees for single genes.\" HGT is thus a potential confounding factor in inferring phylogenetic trees from the sequence of one gene. For example, if two distantly related bacteria have exchanged a gene, a phylogenetic tree including those species will show them to be closely related even though most other genes have diverged substantially. For this reason it is important to use other information to infer phylogenies, such as the presence or absence of genes, or, more commonly, to include as wide a range of genes for analysis as possible.\n\nIn his article \"Uprooting the Tree of Life\", W. Ford Doolittle discusses the Last Universal Common Ancestor – the root of the Tree of Life – and the problems with that concept posed by HGT. He describes the microorganism \"Archaeoglobus fulgidus\" as an anomaly with respect to a phylogenetic tree based upon the code for the enzyme HMGCoA reductase – the organism is definitely an archaean, with all the cell lipids and transcription machinery expected of an archaean, but its HMGCoA genes are of bacterial origin. In the article, Doolittle says that while it is now widely accepted that mitochondria in eukaryotes derived from alpha-proteobacterial cells and that chloroplasts came from ingested cyanobacteria,\n\".. it is no longer safe to assume that those were the only lateral gene transfers that occurred after the first eukaryotes arose. Only in later, multicellular eukaryotes do we know of definite restrictions on horizontal gene exchange, such as the advent of separated (and protected) germ cells...\n\nIf there had never been any lateral gene transfer, all these individual gene trees would have the same topology (the same branching order), and the ancestral genes at the root of each tree would have all been present in the last universal common ancestor, a single ancient cell. But extensive transfer means that neither is the case: gene trees will differ (although many will have regions of similar topology) \"and\" there would never have been a single cell that could be called the last universal common ancestor...\"\nDoolittle suggested that the universal common ancestor cannot have been one particular organism, but must have been a loose, diverse conglomeration of primitive cells that evolved together. These early cells, each with relatively few genes, differed in many ways, and swapped their genes freely. Eventually, from these eclectic cells came the three domains of life as we know them today: bacteria, archaea and eukaryote. These domains are now recognizably distinct because much of the gene transfer that still occurs is within these domains, rather than between them. Biologist Peter Gogarten reinforced these arguments, and suggested that the metaphor of a tree does not fit the data from recent genome research, and that biologists should instead use \"the metaphor of a mosaic to describe the different histories combined in individual genomes and use [the] metaphor of a net to visualize the rich exchange and cooperative effects of HGT among microbes.\"\n\nDespite the uncertainties in reconstructing phylogenies back to the beginnings of life, progress is being made in reconstructing the tree of life in the face of uncertainties raised by HGT. The uncertainty of any inferred phylogenetic tree based on a single gene can be resolved by using several common genes or even evidence from whole genomes. One such approach, sometimes called 'multi-locus typing', has been used to deduce phylogenic trees for organisms that exchange genes, such as meningitis bacteria.\n\nJonathan Eisen and Claire Fraser have pointed out that:\n\"In building the tree of life, analysis of whole genomes has begun to supplement, and in some cases to improve upon, studies previously done with one or a few genes. For example, recent studies of complete bacterial genomes have suggested that the hyperthermophilic species are not deeply branching; if this is true, it casts doubt on the idea that the first forms of life were thermophiles. Analysis of the genome of the eukaryotic parasite \"Encephalitozoon cuniculi\" supports suggestions that the group \"Microsporidia\" are not deep branching protists but are in fact members of the fungal kingdom. Genome analysis can even help resolve relationships within species, such as by providing new genetic markers for population genetics studies in the bacteria causing anthrax or tuberculosis. In all these studies, it is the additional data provided by a complete genome sequence that allows one to separate the phylogenetic signal from the noise. This is not to say the tree of life is now resolved – we only have sampled a smattering of genomes, and many groups are not yet touched\"\n\nThese approaches are enabling estimates of the relative frequency of HGT; the relatively low values that have been observed suggests that the 'tree' is still a valid metaphor for evolution – but the tree is adorned with 'cobwebs' of horizontally transferred genes. This is the main conclusion of a 2005 study of more than 40 complete microbial genomic sequences by Fan Ge, Li-San Wang, and Junhyong Kim. They estimate the frequency of HGT events at about 2% of core genes per genome. Similar whole genome approaches to assessing evolution are also enabling progress in identifying very early events in the tree of life, such as a proposal that eukaryotes arose by fusion of two complete but very diverse prokaryote genomes: one from a bacterium and one from an archaeal cell.\n\nSuch a fusion of organisms hypothesis for the origin of complex nucleated cells has been put forward by Lynn Margulis using quite different reasoning about symbiosis between a bacterium and an archaen arising in an ancient consortium of microbes.\n\nWhile HGT is often seen as a challenge for the reconstruction of the tree of life, an alternative view is that oppositely it provides additional valuable information for its reconstruction.\n\nFirst, for the recipient organism, HGT is a DNA mutation like others, and as such, it can be modeled and used in tree reconstruction and rooting.\n\nSecond, it is necessary that the recipient of a gene acquisition by HGT lives at the same time, or at a ulterior time, as the donor. In consequence there is an information on the timing of diversification in HGT. This is all the more remarkable since the principal usual source for dating in the living world, the fossil record, is absent precisely where HGT is abundant, in the microbial world.\n\nThird, it provides information about the extinct biodiversity, because transfers are likely from extinct species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2536894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2536894", "title": "Idée reçue", "text": "Idée reçue\n\nAn idée reçue (pronounced ), plural idées reçues, a French phrase literally meaning a received (accepted) idea, is a generally held opinion or concept. This term was used by Gustave Flaubert in his work \"Le Dictionnaire des idées reçues\" to refer to clichés and platitudes, most of which are as insipid as they are banal.\n"}
{"id": "38349348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38349348", "title": "Jonathan Judaken", "text": "Jonathan Judaken\n\nJonathan Judaken is the Spence L. Wilson Chair in Humanities at Rhodes College. Judaken previously taught at the University of Memphis where he was the Dunavant Professor of History and Director of the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities. His fields of expertise include European cultural and intellectual history, discussions of Jews and Judaism, race and racism, and post-Holocaust French philosophy. Judaken is a notable scholar of Jean-Paul Sartre and Sartre's relationship to Jews and Judaism and race and racism, as well as contemporary French Jewish philosophers.\n\nJudaken is the author of \"Jean-Paul Sartre and the Jewish Question: Anti-antisemitism and the Politics of the French Intellectual\", in which he argues that \"representations of Jews and Judaism as persistent figures of alterity serve as a fecund site to interrogate and reevaluate [Sartre's] oeuvre, especially his conception of the role of the intellectual.\" He is the editor of three volumes compiling scholarly contributions to the study of race and racism, existentialism, and the intersection between them: \"Race After Sartre: Antiracism, Africana Existentialism, Postcolonialism\", \"Naming Race, Naming Racisms\", and most recently \"Situating Existentialism: Key Texts in Context\", which provides a history of the systemization and canonization of existentialism as a philosophical movement. \nIn addition, Judaken is U.S. consulting editor for the journal \"Patterns of Prejudice\" and has been a scholar in residence at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. He has held memberships in the Association for Jewish Studies, American Historical Association, American Academy of Religion, and the International Society for the Study of European Ideas. Judaken is a founding member of the International Consortium for Research on Antisemitism and Racism (ICRAR), an organization of European, American, and Israeli scholars aimed at \"revitalising and reshaping the study of antisemitism.\" In his scholarship on anti-Semitism, Judaken is critical of the concept of a \"New anti-Semitism\", arguing \"there is not much empirical evidence to support the idea that a new alliance between Leftists and jihadists cemented together by anti-Zionism is emerging.\" Judaken has expressed support for the term \"new Judeophobia\", coined by Pierre-André Taguieff, as a better means of characterizing the recent upsurge of violence and hatred against Jews.\n\nJudaken was born in Johannesburg, South Africa on February 23, 1968. Judaken's youthful experience as a Jew living under South African apartheid, as a member of both a religious minority and the dominant racial group, helped to drive his career interest in subjects such as existentialism, racism and the so-called Jewish Question. After immigrating to the United States as a teenager, Judaken received a B.A. in philosophy from the University of California, San Diego and an M.A. and Ph.D in history from the University of California, Irvine. After completing a post-doctoral fellowship at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Judaken joined the history faculty at the University of Memphis in 1999. He left the University of Memphis for Rhodes College in 2011, where he was appointed the first Spence L. Wilson Chair in Humanities. In his capacity as Spence L. Wilson Chair, Judaken directs the Communities in Conversation program, which facilitates interdisciplinary lectures and events for Rhodes students, faculty and the general public in Memphis.\nJudaken hosts the educational interview program \"Counterpoint\" on WKNO-FM, the NPR affiliate station for the Mid-South.\n"}
{"id": "1750565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750565", "title": "Kersey Graves", "text": "Kersey Graves\n\nKersey Graves (November 21, 1813 in Brownsville, Pennsylvania – September 4, 1883 in Richmond, Indiana) was a skeptic, atheist, rationalist, spiritualist, reformist writer, who was popular on the American freethought circuit of the late 19th century.\n\nGraves was born in Brownsville, Pennsylvania. His parents were Quakers, and as a young man he followed them in their observance, later moving to the Hicksite wing of Quakerism. According to one source, Graves did not attend school for more than three or four months in his life, but another source says that he received an \"academical education\", and at the age of 19 was teaching in a school at Richmond, a career he was to follow for more than twenty years.\n\nHe was an advocate of Abolitionism was also interested in language reform, and became involved with a number of radical freethinkers within Quakerism. In August 1844, he joined a group of about fifty utopian settlers in Wayne County, Indiana. In the same month, he was disowned by his Quaker meeting group due to his neglect of attendance, and also setting up a rival group. The groups he was associated with later dabbled in mesmerism and spiritualism.\n\nIn July 1845, Graves married the Quaker, Lydia Michiner, at Goschen Meeting House, in Zanesfield, Logan County, Ohio, and they later had five children at their home in Harveysburg, Ohio. They later moved back to Richmond and bought a farm.\n\nThe Goschen Meeting House was a centre of the Congregational Friends and were involved with Temperance and Peace, health reform, anti-slavery, women's rights and socialistic utopianism.\n\nGraves' Quaker background conditioned him to the philosophy of the Inner light, whereby all clergy, creeds, and set liturgy in worship were irrelevant, and a hindrance to God's work. This was intensified by Hicks's brand of Quakerism - Quietism - where an individual's spiritual life was most important and all outward manifestations were invalid. The Congregational Friends were to the left of the Hicksites, and withdrew further from even Christianity and eventually a belief in God.\n\nGraves died at his home just north of Richmond, Indiana on 4 September 1883.\n\n\nI desire to impress upon the minds of my clerical brethren the important fact, that the gospel histories of Christ were written by men who had formerly been Jews (see Acts xxi. 20), and probably possessing the strong proclivity to imitate and borrow which their bible shows was characteristic of that nation ; and being written many years after Christ's death, according to that standard Christian author, Dr. Lardner, it was impossible, under such circumstances, for them to separate (if they had desired to) the real facts and events of his life from the innumerable fictions and fables then afloat everywhere relative to the heathen Gods who had pre-enacted a similar history. Two reasons are thus furnished for their constructing a history of Christ almost identical with that of other Gods.\n\nGraves started with the belief that religion corrupted truth, and evolved into a writer claiming that all religious belief was false and that Jesus was fiction. His published works include \"The Biography of Satan; Or, A Historical Exposition of the Devil and His Fiery Dominions. Disclosing the Oriental Origin of the Belief in a Devil and Future Endless Punishment\" (1865; 4th ed. 1924), \"The World's Sixteen Crucified Saviors: Or, Christianity Before Christ\" (1875), and \"The Bible of Bibles; Or, Twenty-Seven \"Divine Revelations\": Containing a Description of Twenty-seven Bibles, and an Exposition of Two Thousand Biblical Errors in Science, History, Morals, Religion, and General Events; Also a Delineation of the Characters of the Principal Personages of the Christian Bible, and an Examination of Their Doctrines\" (4th ed., Boston: Colby & Rich, 1879). His second book was his most famous and is still quoted by atheists and proponents of the Christ myth theory today despite criticism and dismissal by biblical scholars.\n\nGraves is discussed in \"The Christ Conspiracy\" and \"Suns of God\" by Dorothy M. Murdock aka Acharya S. His shortcomings are discussed by Richard Carrier. His writings could even have been utilized in \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nTom Harpur used Graves as a source in \"The Pagan Christ\" and his other books on Jesus Christ in comparative mythology. Atheist activist Madalyn Murray O'Hair was also an admirer of Graves' work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16995", "title": "Kundalini", "text": "Kundalini\n\nKundalini (Sanskrit: \"\", , \"coiled one\"), in Hinduism refers to a form of primal energy (or \"shakti\") said to be located at the base of the spine.\nIn Hindu tradition, Bhairavi is the goddess of Kundalini. Kundalini awakenings may happen through a variety of methods. Many systems of yoga focus on awakening Kundalini through: meditation; pranayama breathing; the practice of asana and chanting of mantras. Kundalini Yoga is a school of yoga that is influenced by Shaktism and Tantra schools of Hinduism. It derives its name through a focus on awakening kundalini energy through regular practice of Mantra, Tantra, Yantra, Yoga\nor Meditation.\nThe Kundalini experience is frequently reported to be a distinct feeling of electric current running along the spine.\n\nThe concept of Kundalini is mentioned in the Upanishads (9h century BCE – 3rd century BCE). The Sanskrit adjective ' means \"circular, annular\". It is mentioned as a noun for \"snake\" (in the sense \"coiled\", as in \"forming ringlets\") in the 12th-century \"Rajatarangini\" chronicle (I.2). ' (a noun meaning \"bowl, water-pot\" is found as the name of a Naga in Mahabharata 1.4828). The 8th-century \"Tantrasadbhava Tantra\" uses the term \"kundalī\" (\"ring, bracelet; coil (of a rope)\").\n\nThe use of \"kuṇḍalī\" as a name for Goddess Durga (a form of Shakti) appears often in Tantrism and Shaktism from as early as the 11th century in the \"Śaradatilaka\". It was adopted as a technical term in Hatha yoga during the 15th century, and became widely used in the Yoga Upanishads by the 16th century. Eknath Easwaran has paraphrased the term as \"the coiled power\", a force which ordinarily rests at the base of the spine, described as being \"coiled there like a serpent\".\n\nWhen awakened, Kundalini is said to rise up from the muladhara chakra, through the central nadi (called \"sushumna\") inside or alongside the spine reaching the top of the head. The progress of Kundalini through the different chakras is believed to achieve different levels of awakening and a mystical experience, until Kundalini finally reaches the top of the head, Sahasrara or crown chakra, producing an extremely profound transformation of consciousness. Energy is said to accumulate in the muladhara, and the yogi seeks to send it up to the brain transforming it into 'Ojas', the highest form of energy.\n\nThere are many physical effects that some people believe to be a sign of a Kundalini awakening; however, there are also others who contend that the undesirable side effects are not Kundalini but chakra awakening. The following are either common signs of an awakened Kundalini or symptoms of a problem associated with an awakening Kundalini:\n\n\nReports about the Sahaja Yoga technique of Kundalini awakening state that the practice can result in a cool breeze felt on the fingertips as well as the fontanel bone area. One study has measured a drop in temperature on the palms of the hands.\n\nIn his article on Kundalini in the \"Yoga Journal\", David Eastman narrates two personal experiences. One man said that he felt an activity at the base of his spine starting to flow, so he relaxed and allowed it to happen. A feeling of surging energy began traveling up his back. At each chakra, he felt an orgasmic electric feeling like every nerve trunk on his spine beginning to fire. A second man describes a similar experience but accompanied by a wave of euphoria and happiness softly permeating his being. He described the surging energy as being like electricity but hot, traveling from the base of his spine to the top of his head. He said the more he analyzed the experience, the less it occurred.\n\nIn his book \"Building a Noble Worl\"d, Shiv R. Jhawar describes his Kundalini awakening experience at Muktananda's public program at Lake Point Tower in Chicago on September 16, 1974, as follows:\n\n\"Baba [Swami Muktananda] had just begun delivering his discourse with his opening statement: 'Today's subject is meditation. The crux of the question is: What do we meditate upon?' Continuing his talk, Baba said: 'Kundalini starts dancing when one repeats Om Namah Shivaya.' Hearing this, I mentally repeated the mantra. I noticed that my breathing was getting heavier. Suddenly, I felt a great impact of a rising force within me. The intensity of this rising kundalini force was so tremendous that my body lifted up a little and fell flat into the aisle; my eyeglasses flew off. As I lay there with my eyes closed, I could see a continuous fountain of dazzling white lights erupting within me. In brilliance, these lights were brighter than the sun but possessed no heat at all. I was experiencing the thought-free state of \"I am,\" realizing that \"I\" have always been, and will continue to be, eternal. I was fully conscious and completely aware while I was experiencing the pure \"I am,\" a state of supreme bliss. Outwardly, at that precise moment, Baba delightfully shouted from his platform...\"mene kuch nahi kiya; kisiko shakti ne pakda\" (I didn't do anything. The Energy has caught someone.)' Baba noticed that the dramatic awakening of kundalini in me frightened some people in the audience. Therefore, he said, 'Do not be frightened. Sometimes kundalini gets awakened in this way, depending upon a person's type.'\n\nSeveral yogis consider that Kundalini can be awakened by \"shaktipat\" (spiritual transmission by a Guru or teacher), or by spiritual practices such as yoga or meditation.\n\nThere are two broad approaches to Kundalini awakening: active and passive. The \"active approach\" involves systematic physical exercises and techniques of concentration, visualization, pranayama (breath practice) and meditation under the guidance of a competent teacher. These techniques come from any of the four main branches of yoga, and some forms of yoga, such as Kriya yoga, Kundalini yoga and Sahaja yoga.\n\nThe \"passive approach\" is instead a path of surrender where one lets go of all the impediments to the awakening rather than trying to actively awaken Kundalini. A chief part of the passive approach is shaktipat where one individual's Kundalini is awakened by another who already has the experience. Shaktipat only raises Kundalini temporarily but gives the student an experience to use as a basis.\n\nGopi Krishna reports having experienced his first kundalini awakening at age 34. In his book \"Kundalini: Questions and Answers\" he writes that while meditating upon a lotus in full bloom his attention was drawn towards the crown of his head. He began to experience a sensation of light as if it was entering his brain which was at first distracting but soon began to acquire an enrapturing condition. He felt it \"like liquid light through all my nervous system, in my stomach, in my heart, in my lungs, in my throat, in my head, and taking control of the whole body. That was a most marvelous experience for me, as if a new life energy had now taken possession of my body.\"\n\nHe subsequently came to believe \"As the ancient writers have said, it is the vital force or prana which is spread over both the macrocosm, the entire Universe, and the microcosm, the human body... The atom is contained in both of these. Prana is life-energy responsible for the phenomena of terrestrial life and for life on other planets in the universe. Prana in its universal aspect is immaterial. But in the human body, Prana creates a fine biochemical substance which works in the whole organism and is the main agent of activity in the nervous system and in the brain. The brain is alive only because of Prana...\n\nAmerican comparative religions scholar Joseph Campbell describes the concept of Kundalini as \"the figure of a coiled female serpent—a serpent goddess not of \"gross\" but \"subtle\" substance—which is to be thought of as residing in a torpid, slumbering state in a subtle center, the first of the seven, near the base of the spine: the aim of the yoga then being to rouse this serpent, lift her head, and bring her up a subtle nerve or channel of the spine to the so-called \"thousand-petaled lotus\" (Sahasrara) at the crown of the head...She, rising from the lowest to the highest lotus center will pass through and wake the five between, and with each waking, the psychology and personality of the practitioner will be altogether and fundamentally transformed.\"\n\nAccording to the hatha yoga text, the \"Goraksasataka\", or \"Hundred Verses of Goraksa\", certain hatha yoga practices including mula bandha, uddiyana bandha, jalandhara bandha and kumbhaka can awaken Kundalini. Another hathayoga text, the \"Khecarīvidyā\", states that kechari mudra enables one to raise Kundalini and access various stores of amrita in the head, which subsequently flood the body.\n\nThe spiritual teacher Meher Baba emphasized the need for a master when actively trying to awaken Kundalini:\nKundalini is a latent power in the higher body. When awakened, it pierces through six chakras or functional centers and activates them. Without a master, the awakening of the kundalini cannot take anyone very far on the Path; and such indiscriminate or premature awakening is fraught with dangers of self-deception as well as the misuse of powers. The kundalini enables man to consciously cross the lower planes and it ultimately merges into the universal cosmic power of which it is a part, and which also is at times described as kundalini ... The important point is that the awakened kundalini is helpful only up to a certain degree, after which it cannot ensure further progress. It cannot dispense with the need for the grace of a Perfect Master.\n\nThe experience of Kundalini awakening can happen when one is either prepared or unprepared.\n\nAccording to Hindu tradition, in order to be able to integrate this spiritual energy, a period of careful purification and strengthening of the body and nervous system is usually required beforehand. Yoga and Tantra propose that Kundalini can be awakened by a guru (teacher), but body and spirit must be prepared by yogic austerities, such as pranayama, or breath control, physical exercises, visualization, and chanting. The student is advised to follow the path in an open-hearted manner.\n\nTraditionally, people would visit ashrams in India to awaken their dormant kundalini energy. Typical activities would include regular meditation, mantra chanting, spiritual studies as well as a physical asana practice such as kundalini yoga.\n\nThe Kundalini always awakens spontaneously when the person least expects it. Whether prepared or unprepared, the kundalini rises despite any attempt to stop it by the sadhak.\n\nKundalini is considered to occur in the chakra and nadis of the subtle body. Each chakra is said to contain special characteristics and with proper training, moving Kundalini through these chakras can help express or open these characteristics.\n\nKundalini is described as a sleeping, dormant potential force in the human organism. It is one of the components of an esoteric description of the \"subtle body\", which consists of nadis (energy channels), chakras (psychic centres), prana (subtle energy), and bindu (drops of essence).\n\nKundalini is described as being coiled up at the base of the spine. The description of the location can vary slightly, from the rectum to the navel. Kundalini is said to reside in the triangular shaped sacrum bone in three and a half coils.\n\nRamana Maharshi mentioned that Kundalini is nothing but the natural energy of the Self, where Self is the universal consciousness (Paramatma) present in every being and that the individual mind of thoughts cloaks this natural energy from unadulterated expression. Advaita teaches self-realization, enlightenment, God-consciousness, and nirvana. But initial Kundalini awakening is just the beginning of the actual spiritual experience. Self-inquiry meditation is considered a very natural and simple means of reaching this goal.\n\nSwami Vivekananda describes Kundalini briefly in his book \"Raja Yoga\" as follows:\n\nAccording to the Yogis, there are two nerve currents in the spinal column, called Pingalâ and Idâ, and a hollow canal called Sushumnâ running through the spinal cord. At the lower end of the hollow canal is what the Yogis call the \"Lotus of the Kundalini\". They describe it as triangular in a form in which, in the symbolical language of the Yogis, there is a power called the Kundalini, coiled up. When that Kundalini awakens, it tries to force a passage through this hollow canal, and as it rises step by step, as it were, layer after layer of the mind becomes open and all the different visions and wonderful powers come to the Yogi. When it reaches the brain, the Yogi is perfectly detached from the body and mind; the soul finds itself free. We know that the spinal cord is composed in a peculiar manner. If we take the figure eight horizontally (∞), there are two parts which are connected in the middle. Suppose you add eight after eight, piled one on top of the other, that will represent the spinal cord. The left is the Ida, the right Pingala, and that hollow canal which runs through the center of the spinal cord is the Sushumna. Where the spinal cord ends in some of the lumbar vertebrae, a fine fiber issues downwards, and the canal runs up even within that fiber, only much finer. The canal is closed at the lower end, which is situated near what is called the sacral plexus, which, according to modern physiology, is triangular in form. The different plexuses that have their centers in the spinal canal can very well stand for the different \"lotuses\" of the Yogi.\n\nWhen Kundalini Shakti is conceived as a goddess, then, when it rises to the head, it unites itself with the Supreme Being of (Lord Shiva). The aspirant then becomes engrossed in deep meditation and infinite bliss. Paramahansa Yogananda in his book \"God Talks With Arjuna: The Bhagavad Gita\" states:\n\nParamahansa Yogananda also states:\nSir John Woodroffe (1865–1936) – also known by his pseudonym Arthur Avalon – was a British Orientalist whose published works stimulated a far-reaching interest in Hindu philosophy and Yogic practices. While serving as a High Court Judge in Calcutta, he studied Sanskrit and Hindu Philosophy, particularly as it related to Hindu Tantra. He translated numerous original Sanskrit texts and lectured on Indian Philosophy, Yoga and Tantra. His book, \"The Serpent Power: The Secrets of Tantric and Shaktic Yoga\" became a major source for many modern Western adaptations of Kundalini yoga practice. It presents an academically and philosophically sophisticated translation of, and commentary on, two key Eastern texts: \"Shatchakranirūpana\" (Description and Investigation into the Six Bodily Centers) written by Tantrik Pūrnānanda Svāmī (1526) and the \"Paduka-Pancakā\" from the Sanskrit of a commentary by Kālīcharana (Five-fold Footstool of the Guru). The Sanskrit term \"Kundali Shakti\" translates as \"Serpent Power\". Kundalini is thought to be an energy released within an individual using specific meditation techniques. It is represented symbolically as a serpent coiled at the base of the spine.\n\nIn his preface to \"The Serpent Power\" Woodroffe clarifies the concept of Kundalini:\n\nIn his book Artistic Form and Yoga in the Sacred Images of India, Heinrich Zimmer spoke highly of Woodroffe's works:\n\nWhen Woodroffe later commented upon the reception of his work he clarified his objective, \"All the world (I speak of course of those interested in such subjects) is beginning to speak of Kundalinî Shakti.\" He described his intention as follows: \"We, who are foreigners, must place ourselves in the skin of the Hindu, and must look at their doctrine and ritual through their eyes and not our own.\"\n\nWestern awareness of kundalini was strengthened by the interest of Swiss psychiatrist and psychoanalyst Dr. Carl Jung (1875–1961). Jung's seminar on Kundalini yoga presented to the Psychological Club in Zurich in 1932 was widely regarded as a milestone in the psychological understanding of Eastern thought and of the symbolic transformations of inner experience. Kundalini yoga presented Jung with a model for the developmental phases of higher consciousness, and he interpreted its symbols in terms of the process of individuation, with sensitivity towards a new generation's interest in alternative religions and psychological exploration.\n\nIn the introduction to Jung's book \"The Psychology of Kundalini Yoga\", Sonu Shamdasani puts forth \"The emergence of depth psychology was historically paralleled by the translation and widespread dissemination of the texts of yoga... for the depth psychologies sought to liberate themselves from the stultifying limitations of Western thought to develop maps of inner experience grounded in the transformative potential of therapeutic practices. A similar alignment of \"theory\" and \"practice\" seemed to be embodied in the yogic texts that moreover had developed independently of the bindings of Western thought. Further, the initiatory structure adopted by institutions of psychotherapy brought its social organization into proximity with that of yoga. Hence, an opportunity for a new form of comparative psychology opened up.\"\n\nThe American writer William Buhlman, began to conduct an international survey of out-of-body experiences in 1969 in order to gather information about symptoms: sounds, vibrations and other phenomena, that commonly occur at the time of the OBE event. His primary interest was to compare the findings with reports made by yogis, such as Gopi Krishna (yogi) who have made reference to similar phenomenon, such as the 'vibrational state' as components of their kundalini-related spiritual experience. He explains:\nGeorge King (1919–1997), founder of the Aetherius Society, describes the concept of Kundalini throughout his works and claimed to have experienced this energy many times throughout his life while in a \"positive samadhic yogic trance state\".\n\nAccording to King,\nIt should always be remembered that despite appearances to the contrary, the complete control of Kundalini through the spinal column is man's only reason for being on Earth, for when this is accomplished, the lessons in this classroom and the mystical examination is passed.\n\nIn his lecture entitled \"The Psychic Centers – Their Significance and Development\", he describes the theory behind the raising of Kundalini and how this might be done safely in the context of a balanced life devoted to selfless service.\n\nSri Aurobindo was the other great authority scholar on Kundalini parallel to Woodroffe with a somewhat different viewpoint, according to Mary Scott (who is herself a latter-day scholar on Kundalini and its physical basis) and was a member of the Theosophical Society.\n\nOther well-known spiritual teachers who have made use of the idea of Kundalini include Aleister Crowley, whose Gnostic Mass symbolically incorporates the concept via various means including the entrance procession ('circumambulation') of the Priest and Priestess; Albert Rudolph (Rudi), Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh (Osho), George Gurdjieff, Paramahansa Yogananda, Sivananda Radha Saraswati, who produced an English language guide to Kundalini yoga methods, Muktananda, Bhagawan Nityananda, Yogi Bhajan, Nirmala Srivastava, Samael Aun Weor.\n\nKundalini references may be found in a number of New Age presentations, and is a word that has been adopted by many new religious movements.\n\nAccording to Carl Jung \"... the concept of Kundalini has for us only one use, that is, to describe our own experiences with the unconscious ...\" Jung used the Kundalini system symbolically as a means of understanding the dynamic movement between conscious and unconscious processes. He cautioned that all forms of yoga, when used by Westerners, can be attempts at domination of the body and unconscious through the ideal of ascending into higher chakras.\n\nAccording to Shamdasani, Jung claimed that the symbolism of Kundalini yoga suggested that the bizarre symptomatology that patients at times presented, actually resulted from the awakening of the Kundalini. He argued that knowledge of such symbolism enabled much that would otherwise be seen as the meaningless by-products of a disease process to be understood as meaningful symbolic processes, and explicated the often peculiar physical localizations of symptoms.\n\nRecently, there has been a growing interest within the medical community to study the physiological effects of meditation, and some of these studies have applied the discipline of Kundalini yoga to their clinical settings.\n\nThe popularization of eastern spiritual practices has been associated with psychological problems in the west. Psychiatric literature notes that \"since the influx of eastern spiritual practices and the rising popularity of meditation starting in the 1960s, many people have experienced a variety of psychological difficulties, either while engaged in intensive spiritual practice or spontaneously\". Among the psychological difficulties associated with intensive spiritual practice we find \"Kundalini awakening\", \"a complex physio-psychospiritual transformative process described in the yogic tradition\". Researchers in the fields of Transpersonal psychology, and Near-death studies have described a complex pattern of sensory, motor, mental and affective symptoms associated with the concept of Kundalini, sometimes called the Kundalini syndrome.\n\nThe differentiation between spiritual emergency associated with Kundalini awakening may be viewed as an acute psychotic episode by psychiatrists who are not conversant with the culture. The biological changes of increased P300 amplitudes that occurs with certain yogic practices may lead to acute psychosis. Biological alterations by Yogic techniques may be used to warn people against such reactions.\n\nSome modern experimental research seeks to establish links between Kundalini practice and the ideas of Wilhelm Reich and his followers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1144105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144105", "title": "Legality", "text": "Legality\n\nLegality can be defined as an act, agreement, or contract that is consistent with the law or state of being lawful or unlawful in a given jurisdiction.\n\nAccording to merriam-webster dictionary definition of Legality is 1 : attachment to or observance of law. 2 : the quality or state of being legal Businessdictionary.com, thelawdictionary.org, and mylawdictionary.org definition explains concept of \"attachment to law\" as \"Implied warranty that an act, agreement, or contract strictly adheres to the statutes of a particular jurisdiction. For example, in insurance contracts it is assumed that all risks covered under the policy are legal ventures.\" The second definition cited by Businessdictionary.com \" Legal principle that an accused may not be prosecuted for an act that is not declared a crime in that jurisdiction.\" is actually about Principle of legality which is part of over all concept of legality.\n\nVicki Schultz states that we collectively have a shared knowledge about most concepts. How we interpret the reality of our actual understanding of a concept manifests itself through the different individual narratives that we tell about the origins and meanings of a particular concept. The difference in narratives, about the same set of facts, is what divides us. An individual has the ability to frame, or understand, something very differently than the next person. Evidence does not always lead to a clear attribution of the specific cause or meaning of an issue – meanings are derived through narratives. Reality, and the facts that surround it, are personally subjective and laden with assumptions based on clearly stated facts. Anna-Maria Marshall states, this shift in framing happens because our perceptions depend “on new information and experiences;” this very idea is the basis of Ewick and Sibley definition of legality – our everyday experiences shape our understanding of the law.\n\nEwik and Silbey define Legality more broadly as, \"those meanings, sources of authority, and cultural practices that are in some sense legal although not necessarily approved or acknowledged by official law. The concept of legality the opportunity to consider \"how where and with what effect law is produced in and through commonplace social interactions...How do our roles and statuses our relationships, our obligations, prerogatives and responsibilities, our identities and our behavoiurs bear the imprint of law.\" \n\nIn a paper on Normative Phenomena of Morality, Ethics and Legality', Legality is defined taking states role in to account as, \"The system of laws and regulations of right and wrong behavior that are enforceable by the state (federal, state, or local governmental body in the U.S.) through the exercise of its policing powers and judicial process, with the threat and use of penalties,\nincluding its monopoly on the right to use physical violence. \"\n\nThe \"principle of legality\" is the legal ideal that requires all law to be clear, ascertainable and non-retrospective. It requires decision makers to resolve disputes by applying legal rules that have been declared beforehand, and not to alter the legal situation retrospectively by discretionary departures from established law. It is closely related to legal formalism and the rule of law and can be traced from the writings of Feuerbach, Dicey and Montesquieu.\n\nThe principle has particular relevance in criminal and administrative law. In criminal law it can be seen in the general prohibition on the imposition of criminal sanctions for acts or omissions that were not criminal at the time of their commission or omission. The principle is also thought to be violated when the sanctions for a particular crime are increased with retrospective effect.\n\nIn administrative law it can be seen in the desire for state officials to be bound by and apply the law rather than acting upon whim. As such advocates of the principle are normally against discretionary powers.\n\nThe principle can be varyingly expressed in Latin phrases such as \"Nullum crimen, nulla poena sine praevia lege poenali\" (No crime can be committed, nor punishment imposed without a pre-existing penal law), \"nulla poena sine lege\" (no penalty without law) and \"nullum crimen sine lege\" (no crime without law). A law that violates the principle by retroactively making actions illegal that were committed before the enactment of the law is called an \"ex post facto law\".\n\nRule of law provides for availability of rules, laws and legal mechanism to implement them. Principle of legality checks for availability and quality of the laws. Legality checks for if certain behaviour is according to law or not. concept of Legitimacy of law looks for fairness or acceptability of fairness of process of implementation of law.\n\nquality of being legal and observance to the law may pertain to lawfullness, i.e. being consistent to the law or it may get discussed in principle of legality or may be discussed as legal legitimacy.\n\nIn contract law, legality of purpose is required of every enforceable contract. One can not validate or enforce a contract to do activity with unlawful purpose.\n\nThe principle of legality can be affected in different ways by different constitutional models. In the United States, laws may not violate the stated provisions of the United States Constitution which includes a prohibition on retrospective laws. In Britain under the doctrine of Parliamentary sovereignty, the legislature can (in theory) pass such retrospective laws as it sees fit, though article 7 of the European convention on human rights, which has legal force in Britain, forbids conviction for a crime which was not illegal at the time it was committed. Article 7 has already had an effect in a number of cases in the British courts.\n\nIn contrast many written constitutions prohibit the creation of retroactive (normally criminal) laws. However the possibility of statutes being struck down creates its own problems. It is clearly more difficult to ascertain what is a valid statute when any number of statutes may have constitutional question marks hanging over them. When a statute is declared unconstitutional, the actions of public authorities and private individuals which were legal under the invalidated statute, are retrospectively tainted with illegality. Such a result could not occur under parliamentary sovereignty (or at least not before Factortame) as a statute was law and its validity could not be questioned in any court.\n\nLegality, in its criminal aspect, is a principle of international human rights law, and is incorporated into the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. However the imposition of penalties for offences illegal under international law or criminal according to \"the general principles of law recognized by civilized nations\" are normally excluded from its ambit. As such the trial and punishment for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity does not breach international law.\n\nThere is some debate about whether this is really a true exception or not. Some people would argue that it is a derogation or – perhaps somewhat more harshly – an infringement of the principle of legality. While others would argue that crimes such as genocide are contrary to natural law and as such are always illegal and always have been. Thus imposing punishment for them is always legitimate. The exception and the natural law justification for it can be seen as an attempt to justify the Nuremberg trials and the trial of Adolf Eichmann, both of which were criticized for applying retrospective criminal sanctions.\n\nThe territorial principle, generally confining national jurisdiction to a nation’s borders, has been expanded to accommodate extraterritorial, national interest.\n\nIn criminal law, the principle of legality assures the primacy of law in all criminal proceedings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25649604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25649604", "title": "List of devotees of Saint Thérèse of Lisieux", "text": "List of devotees of Saint Thérèse of Lisieux\n\nOver the years, a number of prominent people have become devotees of Saint Thérèse of Lisieux. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4089175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4089175", "title": "Logical constant", "text": "Logical constant\n\nIn logic, a logical constant of a language formula_1 is a symbol that has the same semantic value under every interpretation of formula_1. Two important types of logical constants are logical connectives and quantifiers. The equality predicate (usually written '=') is also treated as a logical constant in many systems of logic. One of the fundamental questions in the philosophy of logic is \"What is a logical constant?\"; that is, what special feature of certain constants makes them \"logical\" in nature?\n\nSome symbols that are commonly treated as logical constants are:\nMany of these logical constants are sometimes denoted by alternate symbols (\"e.g.\", the use of the symbol \"&\" rather than \"∧\" to denote the logical and).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46841649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46841649", "title": "Logical determinism", "text": "Logical determinism\n\nLogical determinism is the view that a proposition about the future is either necessarily true, or its negation is necessarily true. The argument for this is as follows. By excluded middle, the future tense proposition (‘There will be a sea-battle tomorrow’) is either true now, or its negation is true. But what makes it (or its negation true) is the present existence of a state of affairs – a truthmaker. If so, then the future is determined in the sense that the way things are now – namely the state of affairs that makes ‘There will be a sea-battle tomorrow’ or its negation true – determines the way that things will be. Furthermore, if the past is necessary, in the sense that a state of affairs that existed yesterday cannot be altered, then the state of affairs that made the proposition ‘There will be a sea-battle tomorrow’ true cannot be changed, and so the proposition or its negation is necessarily true, and it is either necessarily the case that there will be a sea-battle tomorrow, or necessarily \"not\" the case. \n\nThe term ‘logical determinism’ (\"Logischer Determinismus\") was introduced by Moritz Schlick. \n\nLogical determinism seems to present a problem for the conception of free will which requires that different courses of action are possible, for the sea-battle argument suggests that only one course is possible, because necessary. In trying to resolve the problem, the 13th century philosopher Duns Scotus argued in an early work that a future proposition can be understood in two ways: either as signifying something in reality that makes something be true in the future, or simply as signifying that something will be the case. The second sense is weaker in that it does not commit us to any \"present\" state of affairs that makes the future proposition true, only a \"future\" state of affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38360155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38360155", "title": "Luang Por Dhammajayo", "text": "Luang Por Dhammajayo\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo (, , \"Luang Por\" being a deferential title), also known by the lay name Chaiyabun Suddhipol, is a Thai Buddhist monk. He was the abbot of the Buddhist temple Wat Phra Dhammakaya, the post he held until 1999 and again from 2006 to December 2011. In December 2016, he was given the post of honorary abbot of the temple. He is a student of the nun (\"maechi\") Chandra Khonnokyoong, and is the most well-known teacher of Dhammakaya meditation. He has been subject to heavy criticism and some government response. However, he continues to be a spiritual leader that has significant influence in Thai society. Luang Por Dhammajayo's approach to Buddhism seeks to combine the ascetic and meditative life with modern personal ethics and social prosperity.\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo met Maechi Chandra in his student years, and learnt about Buddhism from her. During his student years, he met his fellow student who later became known as Luang Por Dattajivo. Luang Por Dhammajayo started teaching together with Maechi Chandra, and in 1970, they started their own temple in Pathum Thani province, later called Wat Phra Dhammakaya. \n\nThe temple became extremely popular in the 1980s. However, from the 1997 Asian financial crisis onward, the temple and Luang Por Dhammajayo came under heavy criticism for unorthodox fundraising methods, culminating in several charges against him. The charges were withdrawn in 2006, and Luang Por Dhammajayo revived the temple. He organized several notable activities in this period, including a campaign against smoking and drinking for which he was rewarded by the World Health Organization. \n\nAfter the 2014 coup d'etat, Luang Por Dhammajayo again was charged by the Thai government, by then a military junta, for conspiring in money-laundering and receiving stolen goods. These charges have been widely described as politically motivated, but did lead to an arrest warrant and highly publicized standoff in 2016. The junta was, however, unable to find Luang Por Dhammajayo. As of December 2017, the whereabouts of Luang Por Dhammajayo was still unknown, with Phrakhru Sangharak Rangsarit being assigned as official abbot instead.\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo was born in Sing Buri Province with the lay name Chaiyabun Sutthiphon on 22 April 1944, to Janyong Sutthiphon (his father) and Juri Sutthiphon (his mother). His parents were Lao Song and Thai-Chinese, and separated when he was young. Chaiyabun was raised by his father, who was an engineer working for a government agency. Due to a sensitivity for sunlight, Chaiyabun had to wear sunglasses from a young age.\n\nIn Wat Phra Dhammakaya's publications, Chaiyabun is described as a courageous child, who would often play dangerous games with his friends. Whilst studying at Suankularb Wittayalai, the owner of the school would bring Chaiyabun to meet with monks regularly. This sparked his interest in Buddhism from a young age. He set up a Buddhist Youth Society together with his fellow students. Chaiyabun developed a strong interest in reading at a young age, especially on Buddhist practice and biographies of leading people in the world, both religious and political. This included a book with teachings from Luang Pu Sodh Candasaro, the founder of the Dhammakaya Tradition, and a magazine about the \"maechi\" (nun) Chandra Khonnokyoong.\n\nIn 1963, while studying economics at Kasetsart University, he started visiting the temple Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen. It was here that he first met Maechi Chandra, a student of abbot Luang Pu Sodh Candasaro, who had by then died. Maechi Chandra was able to answer Chaiyabun's questions, which made him curious to learn more about Buddhism, through the practice of meditation. Under Maechi Chandra's supervision, Chaiyabun attained a deeper understanding of Buddhism.\n\nChaiyabun got to know many fellow students both in Kasetsart University and in other universities who were interested in practicing meditation, and encouraged them to join him in learning meditation with Maechi Chandra. One of these early acquaintances later became a Buddhist monk and Luang Por Dhammajayo's assistant: Phadet Phongsawat, now known as Luang Por Dattajivo, who would become the deputy abbot of Wat Phra Dhammakaya. When Chaiyabun met Phadet, Phadet was involved in occult practices (), and would often hold public demonstrations of such practices for his fellow students. In Wat Phra Dhammakaya's biographies it is told that every time Chaiyabun joined to watch one of Phadet's demonstrations, Phadet was incapable of doing his performance. Phadet therefore become curious about Chaiyabun, suspecting that Chaiyabun was affecting his occult demonstrations. Later on, when Phadet tried to persuade Chaiyabun to drink alcohol at a college party, Chaiyabun refused, citing his adherence to the five Buddhist precepts. To test Chaiyabun, Phadet then decided to bring him to his occult black magic teacher. However, even the teacher could not use his powers in Chaiyabun's presence, which convinced Phadet to learn more about Dhammakaya meditation from Chaiyabun. From that moment on, they remained friends and Phadet became Chaiyabun's assistant.\n\nDuring his university years, Chaiyabun wanted to stop his studies to ordain as a monk. However, Maechi Chandra and Chaiyabun's father persuaded him to finish his degree first. They argued that Chaiyabun could do more benefit to society if he was both knowledgeable in mundane and spiritual matters. During university, he took a lifelong vow of celibacy as a birthday gift to Maechi Chandra, inspiring many of her students to do the same. After his graduation from Kasetsart University, he was ordained at Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen on 27 August 1969. He received the monastic name \"Dhammajayo\", meaning 'The victor through Dhamma'. At his ordination, Phra (meaning 'monk, venerable') Dhammajayo took a vow that he would work to bring progress to Buddhism. A university degree in the Thailand of the 1960s could lead to a good job and social standing, making Chaiyabun's decision to ordain uncommon.\n\nOnce ordained, he started teaching Dhammakaya meditation together with Maechi Chandra. In the beginning, the meditation courses were carried in a small house called 'Ban Thammaprasit' in the Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen compound. Because of the popularity of both teachers, the house soon became overcrowded with interested students and they considered it more appropriate to start a new center by themselves. Although initially they intended to buy a plot of land in Patum Thani, the landowner \"Khunying\" Prayat Suntharawet gave a plot four times the requested size to celebrate her birthday. Thus, on 20 February 1970, Maechi Chandra, Phra Dhammajayo, Phra Dattajivo and their students moved to the 196 \"rai\" (313,600 m) plot of land to found a meditation center. A book about the initiative was compiled, to inspire people to join in and help with the building of the meditation center. The site eventually became an official temple in 1977 and was later named Wat Phra Dhammakaya.\n\nPhra Dhammajayo later became abbot of the temple and was called Luang Por (meaning 'venerable father') Dhammajayo from then on. In the early years, Maechi Chandra still had an important role in fundraising and decision-making. However in years to follow, this would gradually become less, as she grew older and withdrew more to the background of the temple's organization. From then onward, Luang Por Dhammajayo received a greater role. The temple gained great popularity during the 1980s (during the Asian economic boom), attracting up to fifty thousand people on major ceremonies.\n\nIn the wake of the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, Wat Phra Dhammakaya and Luang Por Dhammajayo came under widespread criticism and an investigation from the Sangha Supreme Council. The main criticism was that the temple was using fundraising methods that did not fit in with Buddhism. One of the accusations investigated was that Luang Por Dhammajayo had moved land donated to the temple to his own name. The temple denied this, stating that it was the intention of the donors to give the land to the abbot and not the temple. During this time, a letter with the then Supreme Patriarch's signature was leaked to the press implying that Luang Por Dhammajayo had to disrobe for not returning the land. However, the authenticity of the letter was put into question. Eventually the Sangha Council declared that Luang Por Dhammajayo had not broken any serious offenses against monastic discipline (\"Vinaya\"). Despite this, the charged Luang Por Dhammajayo with embezzlement and removed him from his post as abbot.\n\nDuring this period, many Thai news reporters used pejorative language in describing Luang Por Dhammajayo, as well as members of the Sangha Supreme Council. Monastic chiefs nationwide sent letters to the Prime Minister over concerns about the media's language toward the Sangha. Widespread negative media coverage at this time was symptomatic of the temple being made the scapegoat for commercial malpractice in the Thai Buddhist temple community. In 1999, Wat Phra Dhammakaya filed several successful slander suits against various news outlets. In an interview held in the same year, LP Dhammajayo stated he understood the government's anxiety about Buddhist movements with large gatherings, but still felt perplexed about the controversies.\nIn the 2000s, Luang Por Dhammajayo began a nationwide anti-smoking and drinking campaign. This project led the World Health Organization (WHO) to present him with a World No Tobacco Day award in 2004. In 2005, over one hundred religious organizations joined the campaign and successfully stopped the listing of liquor company Thai Beverage on the Stock Exchange of Thailand, which would have been the biggest listing in Thai history.\n\nIn 2006, the running lawsuits against Luang Por Dhammajayo were withdrawn by the Attorney-General, citing that Luang Por Dhammajayo had moved all of the disputed land to the name of the temple and that continuing the case would not benefit the public. His position as abbot was subsequently restored. Five years later, Luang Por Dhammajayo stepped down as abbot of Wat Phra Dhammakaya, with Luang Por Dattajivo taking over as caretaker abbot, although this was not widely known at the time.\n\nNew investigations against Luang Por Dhammajayo appeared following the 2014 Thai coup d'état. The military junta created a National Reform Council with a religious committee led by former senator , (known under the activist name Phra Buddha Issara), and former Wat Phra Dhammakaya monk Mano Laohavanich. In February 2015, Paiboon Nititawan led an unsuccessful bid to reopen the alleged land embezzlement case against Luang Por Dhammajayo from 1999. Meanwhile, Phra Suwit requested the Department of Special Investigation (DSI) to start an investigation in the assets of the Sangha Council's members. This included Somdet Chuang Varapuñño, who was Luang Por Dhammajayo's preceptor (the person who ordained him).\n\nIn 2015, Luang Por Dhammajayo was implicated in the Klongchan Credit Union controversy when 11.37 billion baht was taken out of the Klongchan Credit Union Cooperative (KCUC) via unauthorized checks, in which a portion totaling more than a billion baht were found to have been given to Wat Phra Dhammakaya via donations. In defense, spokespeople of Wat Phra Dhammakaya explained that Luang Por Dhammajayo was not aware that the donations were illegally obtained. In a written agreement with the credit union, supporters of the temple had raised the money linked to Wat Phra Dhammakaya to donate to the KCUC to compensate their members.\n\nRegardless, Luang Por Dhammajayo was summoned to acknowledge the charges of ill-gotten gains and conspiring to money-laundering at the offices of the DSI. The temple requested the DSI to let him acknowledge his charges at the temple due to his deep vein thrombosis, a request the DSI refused. When Luang Por Dhammajayo failed to appear at the DSI office to acknowledge his charges, authorities launched several failed raids of the temple to find him. The standoff led to a 23-day lockdown of the temple in 2017 by the junta using Article 44 of the interim constitution, despite the efforts authorities were still unable to find him. Many reporters questioned the practicality of using Article 44 and so many resources to arrest one person to acknowledge a charge of a non-violent crime, and pointed out the viability of trying him \"in absentia\" to determine guilt first.\n\nNews analysts have speculated that the actions of the Thai junta towards the temple may have reflected a political need to control who should be selected as the next Supreme Patriarch of Thailand. The monk who was next in line for the position, Somdet Chuang Varapuñño, had ordained Luang Por Dhammajayo. Selecting Somdet Chuang would have meant a Supreme Patriarch from the Maha Nikaya fraternity, rather than the Dhammayuttika fraternity, which historically had been the preferred choice by the Thai government and the monarchy. In fact, Somdet Chuang's appointment was withdrawn by the Thai Junta, with another candidate from the Dhammayuttika fraternity appointed instead. The coinciding lawsuits against Luang Por Dhammajayo, and Somdet Chuang's connection to him were, in fact, eventually used as a reason by the junta to withdraw his nomination.\n\nIn the aftermath of the lockdown additional charges were filed, this time also against the deputy abbot, Luang Por Dattajivo. With both Wat Phra Dhammakaya's honorary and deputy abbot under investigation, the junta pushed unsuccessfully to appoint an \"outsider\" abbot to run the temple. The junta stated it was necessary to take over the temple because it is a \"threat to national security\".\n\nIn December 2016, Luang Por Dhammajayo was given the position of honorary abbot by the Ecclesiastical Provincial Chief (governing monk of the region) of Pathum Thani. In December 2017, the temple assigned Phrakhru Sangharak Rangsarit as the temple's new abbot and began announcing the organization of new events. News outlet Kom Chad Luek described this as a \"revival\" of the temple, but news outlet Thai PBS stated that the temple had not been affected much by the disappearance of the former abbot. In 2017, Wat Phra Dhammakaya was described as the largest temple of Thailand.\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo's approach to Buddhism seeks to combine the ascetic and meditative life with modern personal ethics and social prosperity. Luang Por Dhammajayo is mostly known for his teachings with regard to Dhammakaya meditation. In his approach to propagating Buddhism he has emphasized a return to a purer Buddhism, as it had been in the past. He has also opposed protective magic and prognostication and refers to these as signs that Buddhism is deteriorating. Many followers in the temple believe that his projects are a product of his visions in meditation.\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo is known for his modern style of temple management and iconography. Luang Por Dhammajayo's approach to Buddhism seeks to combine both the ascetic and meditative life, as well as modern personal ethics and social prosperity. Luang Por Dhammajayo often uses positive terms to describe Nirvana. Apart from the true self as taught by the Dhammakaya Movement as a whole, religious studies scholar Rachelle Scott notes that Wat Phra Dhammakaya often describes Nirvana as being the supreme happiness, and argues that this may explain why the practice of Dhammakaya meditation is so popular. In its teachings on how meditation can help improve health and the quality of modern life, the temple has been compared to the Vipassana movement of S.N Goenka. The temple's emphasis on meditation is expressed in several ways. Meditation books and CDs are for sale in stores around the temple, and every gathering that is organized by the temple will feature some time for meditation. The temple emphasizes the usefulness of meditating in a group, and sociologist Apinya Fuengfusakul notes that public meditations have a powerful effect on the minds of the practitioners.\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo was heavily influenced by Maechi Chandra Khonnokyoong in her teachings. He turned the Dhammakaya meditation method \"into an entire guide of living\" (McDaniel), emphasizing cleanliness, orderliness, and quiet, as a morality by itself and as a support for meditation. In short, Wat Phra Dhammakaya's appearance is orderly, and can be described as \"a contemporary aesthetic\" (Scott), which appeals to practitioners, especially the modern Bangkok middle class. Practitioners are also encouraged to keep things tidy and clean, through organized cleaning activities. A strong work ethic is promoted through these activities, in which the most menial work is seen as the most valuable and fruitful.\n\nWat Phra Dhammakaya has a vision of a future ideal society. Wat Phra Dhammakaya is known for its emphasis on meditation, especially \"samatha\" meditation (meditation aiming at tranquility of mind). Through Luang Por Dhammajayo's teachings, Wat Phra Dhammakaya started to develop a more international approach to its teachings, teaching meditation in non-Buddhist countries as a religiously neutral technique suitable for those of all faiths, or none. The temple emphasizes that the daily application of Buddhism will lead the practitioner and society to prosperity and happiness in this life and the next, and the temple expects a high commitment to that effect. Through meditation, fundraising activities and volunteer work, the temple emphasizes the making of merit, and explains how through the law of kamma merit yields its fruits, in this world and the next. The ideal of giving as a form of building character is expressed in the temple's culture with the words \"Cittam me\", meaning 'I am victorious', referring to the overcoming of inner defilements (\"\").\n\nIn 1994, LP Dhammajayo received an honorary degree from the Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University. In 2013, in commemoration of year 2550 of the Buddhist Era, the World Buddhist Sangha Youth (WBSY) presented the Universal Peace Award to LP Dhammajayo at the third WBSY meeting in recognition of his work in disseminating Buddhism for more than thirty years. Other awards that have been given to LP Dhammajayo are the Phuttha-khunupakan award from the House of Representatives in 2009, and a World Buddhist Leader Award from the National Office of Buddhism (2014).\n\nLuang Por Dhammajayo was give the monastic title of Phrasudharmayanathera in 1991, followed by Phrarajbhavanavisudh in 1996. In 2011, he received his third and last title Phrathepyanmahamuni. In March 2017, King Rama X approved a request by junta leader Prayuth Chan-ocha to remove Luang Por Dhammajayo's title for not acknowledging the charges laid upon him.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37980362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37980362", "title": "Luc Thériault", "text": "Luc Thériault\n\nLuc Thériault (born January 31, 1960) is a Canadian academic and politician. As a member of the Parti Québécois, he served as a Member of the National Assembly of Quebec from 2003 to 2007, representing the Masson electoral district. In 2015, he was elected to the Canadian House of Commons representing Montcalm, as a member of the Bloc Québécois. He served as the Bloc Québécois House Leader from 2015 until 2017, and was the party's representative on the Special Committee on Electoral Reform.\n\nThériault, along with six other Bloc MPs, resigned from the Bloc's caucus to sit as an independent MP on February 28, 2018 citing conflicts with the leadership style of Martine Ouellet. He rejoined the Bloc Québécois caucus on September 17, 2018.\n\nThériault was born in Montreal. He attended Université du Québec à Montréal, earning a bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1984 and a Masters in political philosophy in 1988. He later earned a DESS in bioethics at the Université de Montréal in 2002.\n\nAfter obtaining his master's degree, he taught philosophy at Collège de Maisonneuve from 1985 to 2003. He also coached water polo from 1979 to 1988.\n\nHe served as a member of the Ethics Committee of the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital and Jeanne-Le Ber nursing home from 2000 to 2003. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Maisonneuve Cooperative School (Coopérative scolaire Maisonneuve) from 2001 to 2003.\n\nHe was bureau chief for Parti Québécois in Ville-Marie, Montreal from 1999 to 2003. He was elected in the Quebec general election, 2003, succeeding Gilles Labbé. He was defeated in the Quebec general election, 2007 by Ginette Grandmont.\n\n"}
{"id": "3280544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3280544", "title": "Lucio Colletti", "text": "Lucio Colletti\n\nLucio Colletti (December 8, 1924, Rome – November 3, 2001, Venturina Terme, Campiglia Marittima, Province of Livorno) was an Italian Western Marxist philosopher. Colletti started to be known outside Italy because of a long interview that Marxist historian Perry Anderson published in the \"New Left Review\" in 1974.\n\nColletti studied philosophy at the Sapienza University of Rome, where he earned a Laurea with a thesis entitled \"La logica di Benedetto Croce\" (\"The Logic of Benedetto Croce\") and directed by . In 1951, he was inspired by the Western Marxist philosopher Galvano Della Volpe. Colletti was well known as a critic of Hegelian idealism and also later became a noted critic of Marxism. He wrote the foreword for the Italian edition of Alfred Schmidt's \"The Concept of Nature in Marx\".\n\nColletti changed his political beliefs very often and abandoned many of his early Marxist beliefs. Colletti joined the Italian Communist Party (PCI) in 1949 and emerged as an important cultural party figure. In 1964, Coletti left the PCI because the break with its semi-Stalinist past was leading in what he called a \"patently rightward direction.\" In the 1970s he was among the supporters of Socialist leader Bettino Craxi. From 1996 until his death he was elected in the list of Forza Italia, Silvio Berlusconi's rightwing political party, in the Italian parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24277422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24277422", "title": "Martyn Evans (academic)", "text": "Martyn Evans (academic)\n\nH. Martyn Evans is a Welsh academic and Professor of Philosophy of Music and Member of the School of Medicine and Health at the University of Durham. From 2002 to 2008, he was Principal of John Snow College, Durham. Since 2008, he has been Principal of Trevelyan College, Durham.\n\nProfessor Evans started his career at the University of Wales, Swansea, where he became Senior Lecturer in the Centre for Philosophy and Healthcare. He has a doctorate in the Philosophy of Music.\n\nHe joined Durham in 2002 where he became the first Principal of John Snow College, in 2008 he became Principal of Trevelyan College. His current academic positions include being the Co-Director Centre for Medical Humanities at the School of Medicine and Health as well as the Centre for the Medical Humanities and a Fellow of the Wolfson Research Institute.\n\nHe had been a visiting fellow at the University of Sydney. He is currently a visiting Professor at the University of Otago and joint editor of the Medical Humanities journal. He is an Honorary Fellow of Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) and the Royal College of Physicians. He sits on the Wellcome Trust Medical Humanities Strategy Committee and RCGP Ethics Committee.\n\nHe has authored or co-authored 30 scientific/philosophical papers.\n\nHe has a wife and two sons.\n"}
{"id": "28702800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28702800", "title": "Metanoetics", "text": "Metanoetics\n\nMetanoetics (from \"conversion, repentance\" from μετανοῶ \"I repent\"; )) is a neologism coined by Hajime Tanabe in \"Philosophy as Metanoetics\" to denote a way of doing philosophy that understands the limits of reason and the power of radical evil. Though the method used by Tanabe to reach this conclusion relies on the transcendental analysis developed by Kant, Tanabe aligns the method with the Buddhist concept of Absolute Nothingness and the preaching of Pure Land Buddhism, Zen, and Christianity.\n\nTanabe states that Kant did not take the critique of reason far enough. By this Tanabe means that a radical critique of reason should question whether reason itself can understand its ability to embody self-awareness and ultimate reality. The individual exercising reason should remain aware of the crisis of reason and see the antinomy, those rationally unsolveable contradictions that reason unearths, as the basis for personal renewal.\n\nThe crisis of reason is not just a disruption of thought; it also involves a crisis of will. As the individual understands the radical limits of reason in facing the antinomies, they become aware of what Kant called radical evil. This is the will to act according to desires beyond those presented by rational reflection. With this realization comes further crisis and thereby the possibility of metanoia.\n\nIn this state of crisis, the individual gains the perspective required to see another source of enlightenment. Tanabe uses the Shin Buddhist term of \"Other-power\" to denote this source, also called Absolute Nothingness. This metanoia realizes the inadequacy of human efforts to discover the source of self-awareness and surrenders to it. This surrender provides the power to continue the search for meaning within the midst of everyday life and to act in a compassionate and charitable way to bring others to self-realization.\n\n"}
{"id": "16634886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16634886", "title": "Moral perception", "text": "Moral perception\n\nMoral perception is a term used in ethics to denote the discernment of the morally salient qualities in particular situations. Moral perceptions are argued to be necessary to moral reasoning (see practical reason), the deliberation of what is the right thing to do. Moral perception is variously conceptualized by Aristotle, Hannah Arendt, and Martha C. Nussbaum. Lawrence Blum (1994) distinguishes moral perception from moral judgment. Whereas a person's judgment about what the moral course of action would be is the result of a conscious deliberation, the basis for that process is the perception of aspects of one's situation, which is different for each person. Moral perceptions are also particular in nature.\n"}
{"id": "11276543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11276543", "title": "Nigel Warburton", "text": "Nigel Warburton\n\nNigel Warburton (; born 1962) is a British philosopher. He is best known as a populariser of philosophy, having written a number of books in the genre, but he has also written academic works in aesthetics and applied ethics.\n\nWarburton received a BA from the University of Bristol and a PhD from Darwin College, Cambridge, and was a lecturer at the University of Nottingham before joining the Department of Philosophy at the Open University in 1994. In May 2013, he resigned from the position of Senior Lecturer at the Open University.\n\nHe is the author of a number of introductory Philosophy books, including the bestselling \"Philosophy: The Basics\" (4th ed.), \"Philosophy: The Classics\" (4th ed.), and \"Thinking from A to Z\" (3rd ed.); he also edited \"Philosophy: Basic Readings\" (2nd ed.) and was the co-author of \"Reading Political Philosophy: Machiavelli to Mill\". He has written extensively about photography, particularly about Bill Brandt, and wrote a biography of the modernist architect Ernő Goldfinger. He regularly teaches courses on philosophy and art at Tate Modern and writes a monthly column \"Everyday Philosophy\" for \"Prospect\" magazine.\n\nHe runs a philosophy weblog \"Virtual Philosopher\" and with David Edmonds regularly podcasts interviews with top philosophers on a range of subjects at \"Philosophy Bites\". He also podcasts chapters from his book \"Philosophy: The Classics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8454308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8454308", "title": "Oberto Airaudi", "text": "Oberto Airaudi\n\nOberto Airaudi (29 May 1950 – 24 June 2013) was an Italian philosopher and artist, who founded the Federation of Damanhur. Airaudi also went by the name of Falco (Hawk), based on the Damanhur practice of adopting animal names. He was born in Balangero, near Turin, Italy.\n\nIn 1975, Airaudi and a group of about 25 other people founded the Federation of Damanhur, a New Age commune and eco-village. Beginning in 1978, Airaudi directed construction of the underground facility the Temples of Humankind. Initially in secret, the Temples become public knowledge in 1992, when a former member sued to regain his possessions from the group. Prior to founding the community, he had worked as an insurance agent.\n\nAiraudi died of liver cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9170431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9170431", "title": "Paolo da Pergola", "text": "Paolo da Pergola\n\nPaolo da Pergola (died 1455, in Venice) was an Italian humanist philosopher, mathematician and Occamist logician. He was a pupil of Paul of Venice.\n\nPaolo da Pergola's most important work was probably \"De sensu composito et diviso\". His logical works were printed early.\n\nHe taught at the Scuola di Rialto from 1421 to 1454. He was teacher and friend of the glassmaker Antonio Barovier.\n\nAmong his pupils was also Nicoletto Vernia, a well known professor of philosophy in Padua.\n\nThere is a memorial to him in San Giovanni Elemosinario, Venice.\n\n"}
{"id": "3600342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3600342", "title": "Prophetic books", "text": "Prophetic books\n\nThe prophetic books are a division in the Christian Old Testament, corresponding to the Latter Prophets of the Hebrew Nevi'im, with the addition of Lamentions and Daniel in the Major Prophets, which in the Tanakh are found in the Five Megillot and ungrouped books of Ketuvim.\n\nThe Major Prophets in Christianity are:\n\n\nThe Minor Prophets are as in Judaism:\n\n"}
{"id": "1621364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621364", "title": "Robert Kowalski", "text": "Robert Kowalski\n\nRobert Anthony \"Bob\" Kowalski (born 15 May 1941) is a logician and computer scientist, who has spent most of his career in the United Kingdom.\n\nHe was educated at the University of Chicago, University of Bridgeport (BA in mathematics, 1963), Stanford University (MSc in mathematics, 1966), University of Warsaw and the University of Edinburgh (PhD in computer science, 1970). \n\nHe was a research fellow at the University of Edinburgh (1970–75) and has been at Imperial College London since 1975, attaining a chair in Computational logic in 1982 and becoming Emeritus Professor in 1999.\n\nHe began his research in the field of automated theorem proving, developing both SL-resolution with Donald Kuehner and the connection graph proof procedure. He developed SLD resolution and the procedural interpretation of Horn clauses, which underpin the operational semantics of backward reasoning in logic programming. With Maarten van Emden., he also developed the minimal model and the fixpoint semantics of Horn clauses, which underpin the logical semantics of logic programming.\n\nWith Marek Sergot, he developed both the event calculus and the application of logic programming to legal reasoning. With Fariba Sadri, he developed an agent model in which beliefs are represented by logic programs and goals are represented by integrity constraints. \n\nKowalski was one of the developers of Abductive Logic Programming, in which logic programs are augmented with integrity constraints and with undefined, abducible predicates. This work led to the demonstration with Phan Minh Dung and Francesca Toni that most logics for default reasoning can be regarded as special cases of assumption-based argumentation.\n\nMore recently he distilled most of the above into a new language, Logic Production Systems, in joint work with Fariba Sadri.\n\nKowalski was elected a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence in 1991, of the European Co-ordinating Committee for Artificial Intelligence in 1999, and the Association for Computing Machinery in 2001. He received the IJCAI Award for Research Excellence, “for his contributions to logic for knowledge representation and problem solving, including his pioneering work on automated theorem proving and logic programming” in 2011 , and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Award for Eminent Scientists for 2012-2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "940909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=940909", "title": "Romantic fantasy", "text": "Romantic fantasy\n\nRomantic fantasy is a subgenre of fantasy fiction, describing a fantasy story using many of the elements and conventions of the chivalric romance genre.\n\nOne of the key features of romantic fantasy involves the focus on relationships, social, political, and romantic. Romantic fantasy has been published by both fantasy lines and romance lines.\n\nSome publishers distinguish between \"romantic fantasy\" where the fantasy elements is most important and \"fantasy romance\" where the romance are most important. Others say that \"the borderline between fantasy romance and romantic fantasy has essentially ceased to exist, or if it's still there, it's moving back and forth constantly\".\n\n\nCharacters may start as solitary wanderers in romantic fantasy, but they never remain that way for long. One of the key features of romantic fantasy involves the focus on social, and to a lesser extent, political relationships. The characters all find close friends, lovers, and other companions with whom they either live or travel, as well as a larger social circle where they all belong. In addition, many character have significant ties with the larger world. Many of these characters have noble titles, or a sworn duty to their kingdom. The rootless travelers of sword and sorcery novels are rarely found in romantic fantasy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51586709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51586709", "title": "Second-wave positive psychology", "text": "Second-wave positive psychology\n\nSecond wave positive psychology (PP 2.0) is concerned with how to bring out the best in individuals and society in spite of and because of the dark side of human existence through the dialectical principles of yin and yang. There has also been a distinct shift from focusing on individual happiness and success to the double vision of individual well-being and the big picture of humanity. PP 2.0 is more about bringing out the \"better angels of our nature\" than achieving optimal happiness or personal success, because the better angels of empathy, compassion, reason, justice, and self-transcendence will make people better human beings and this world a better place. PP 2.0 pivots around the universal human capacity for meaning seeking and meaning making in achieving optimal human functioning under both desirable and undesirable conditions. This emerging movement is an inevitable and necessary corrective response to the inherent problems of what has been called \"positive psychology as usual\".\n\nPositive psychology \"as usual\" has been presented as the branch of psychology that uses scientific understanding and effective intervention to aid in the achievement of a satisfactory life, rather than treating mental illness. The focus of positive psychology is on personal growth rather than on pathology.It has been argued that this binary, dichotomous view has fuelled both positive psychology's success and decline. The single-minded focus on positivity has resulted in persistent backlash (e.g., Frawley, 2015 for a recent review). The following criticisms have been leveled against positive psychology by researchers both outside of and within the positive psychology community. These include the \"tyranny\" of positivity and the lack of balance between positives and negatives; failing to cover the entire spectrum of human experiences; failing to recognize the importance of contextual variables; and assuming that the Western individualistic culture represents the universal human experience. As a result, various positive psychologists have proposed the need for a balanced perspective.\n\nIn order to correct the limitations of positive psychology, Paul Wong has argued for the need to integrate positive psychology with existential psychology, resulting in \"existential positive psychology\" (EPP). This approach differs significantly from positive psychology \"as usual\" both in terms of epistemology and content.\n\nEPP favors a pluralistic and holistic approach to research. It is open to insights and wisdoms from both the East and the West and research findings from all sources regardless of the paradigm of truth claims. In terms of content, it explores both people's existential anxieties and their ultimate concerns. Thus, EPP contributes to a broader and more comprehensive understanding of human experiences.\n\nBoth existential philosophers and psychologists see life as a series of paradoxes, predicaments, and problems. From this existential perspective, life is also full of striving and sense-making, tragedies and triumphs. The dynamic interplay between good and evil, negatives and positives is one of the hallmarks of EPP. Positives cannot exist apart from negatives, and authentic happiness grows from pain and suffering. This paradoxical view reflects Albert Camus' insight that \"there is no joy of life without despair\" (p. 56) and Rollo May's observation that \"the ultimate paradox is that negation becomes affirmation\" (p. 164).\n\nIt may be argued that positive psychology is intrinsically existential because it is concerned with such fundamental questions about human existence as: What is the good life? What makes life worth living? How can one find happiness? Positive psychology research on these existential issues without taking into account the existential literature inevitably leads to superficiality or mischaracterization.\n\nA comprehensive positive psychology cannot be developed without taking into account the reality of death, the only certainty for all living organisms. However, human beings alone are burdened with the cognitive capacity to be aware of their own mortality and to fear what may follow after one's own demise. However, death awareness may be essential to meaningful living; \"though the physicality of death destroys us, the idea of death saves us\" (p. 7). Thus, awareness of our finality is indeed an important motivational factor for us to do something meaningful and significant with our lives.\n\nTherefore, EPP advocates that the proper context of studying well-being and the meaningful life is the reality of suffering and death. Researchers who share this view include Bretherton and Ørner, Schneider, and Taheny.\n\nRecently, positive psychologists have recognized that positive psychology is rooted in humanistic-existential psychology, but in practice it continues to distance itself from its heritage because of the alleged lack of scientific research in humanistic psychology. A mature positive psychology needs to return to its existential-humanistic roots, because it can both broaden and deepen positive psychology.\n\nPaul Wong extends EPP to second wave positive psychology (PP 2.0) by formally incorporating the dialectical principles of Chinese psychology, the bio-behavioral dual-system model of adaptation, and cross-cultural positive psychology. Thus, PP 2.0 provides a big tent that allows for multiple indigenous positive psychologies and a much broader list of variables that contribute to well-being and flourishing.\n\nPP 2.0 is necessary, because neither positive psychology nor humanistic-existential psychology can adequately understand such complex human phenomena as meaning, virtue, and happiness. Such deep knowledge can only be achieved by an integrative and collaborative endeavor. This calls for a humble science. In other words, PP 2.0 denies that the positivist paradigm is the only way to examine truth claims, especially when we research the profound questions of what makes life worth living.\n\n\n\nTaoist dialectical thinking permeates every aspect of Chinese psychology. Peng and Nisbett showed that Chinese thinking is dialectical rather than binary. Similarly, Sundararajan documents the dialectical co-existence of positive and negative emotions in Chinese people.\n\nPaul Wong's research has also demonstrated that the wisdom of yin and yang operates in many situations. He has argued that Chinese people can hold external and internal loci of control simultaneously. Therefore, their locus of control beliefs can only be a measured by a two-dimensional space with external and internal loci of control as two independent scales. However, dialectic thinking is not unique to Chinese culture. For example, pessimism and optimism can co-exist, resulting in tragic optimism. Death fear and death acceptance can also co-exist, resulting in the multidimensional Death Attitude Profile. Resources and deficits co-exist, as conceptualized in the Resource-Congruence Model. Thus, family can be resources for effective coping, but intra-family conflict can also be a deficit or stressor.\n\nWong's Dual-Systems Model of approach and avoidance spells out the mechanisms whereby the good life can be achieved in the midst of adversities, not by accentuating the positive and avoiding the negative, but by embracing the dynamic and dialectic interaction between positive and negative experiences. This general bio-behavioral model is also based on the dialectical principle. Dialectical thinking represents a simple but powerful conceptual framework, capable of integrating a great deal of the literature relevant to well-being. Yin represents not only the dark side of life, but also the conservative and passive modes of adaptation, such as acceptance, letting go, avoidance, withdrawal, disengagement, doing nothing, and self-transcendence. Yang represents not only the bright side of life, but also the energetic and active modes of adaptation, such as goal setting and goal striving, problem solving and controlling, and expanding and maintaining territories.\n\nThe dynamic balance between positive and negative forces is mediated through dialectical principles. For instance, Lomas and Ivtzan have identified three ways of restoring and maintaining the balance: (a) the principle of appraisal, (b) the principle of co-valence, and (c) the principle of complementarity.\n\nSimilarly, Wong identifies four principles of transforming the dark side: (a) becoming wiser and better through the synthesis of opposites, (b) becoming more balanced and flexible through the co-existence of opposites which complement or moderate each other, (c) becoming more aware and appreciative of the after-effects or contrast effect due to the opponent-process, and (d) becoming stronger and more spiritual through self-transcendence.\n\nThus, the wisdom of achieving the golden mean or the middle way is through the dialectical interactions between yin and yang. These dialectical principles constitute the foundation of PP 2.0 and ensure that the dark side of life serves the adaptive functions of survival and flourishing.\n\nThe dark side refers to more than just challenging experiences, thoughts, emotions, and behaviors that trigger discomfort. It also encompasses existential anxieties and the evitable sufferings in life. Apart from existential concerns, the dark side also refers to our Achilles' heel. From Aristotle to Shakespeare, the literature has always recognized the existence of tragic heroes—powerful and successful individuals who are eventually ruined by their own character flaws. As Aristotle said, \"A man cannot become a hero until he can see the root of his own downfall.\" All one's talents, character strengths, and efforts will eventually come to null, with disastrous consequences to oneself and others, when one pays no attention to one's own Achilles heel.\n\nPaul Wong proposes that the meaning hypothesis is an overarching conceptual framework for PP 2.0 because it is based on the universal human capacity for meaning making and meaning seeking and the vital role meaning plays in human experience and well-being. It hypothesizes that meaning is the best possible end value for the good life and offers the best protection against existential anxieties and adversities.\n\nThe meaning hypothesis places more emphasis on a fundamental change in global beliefs and values than behavioral change. The \"meaning mindset\" affirms that life has unconditional meaning and it can be found in any situation. Figure 1 presents a schematic presentation of the meaning mindset.\n\nIf one chooses the meaning mindset, one can still find meaning and fulfillment even when failing to complete one's life mission. Thus, there is no failure when one pursues a virtuous and noble mission as one's life goal. A perspective shift to the meaning mindset helps eliminate one main source of human misery related to the striving to achieve material success or worldly fame. Cultivating a meaning mindset may yield better payoff than positive psychology exercises of enhancing happiness and character strengths because the perspective shift reorients one's focus away from egotistic pursuits to self-transcendence and altruism, which benefit both the individual and society.\n\nScience is always self-corrective and progressive. PP 2.0 avoids many of the problems inherent in positive psychology \"as usual\" and opens up new avenues of research and applications. The future of psychology can benefit from integrating three distinct movements—humanistic-existential psychology, positive psychology, and indigenous psychology.\n\nThe 21st century belongs to PP 2.0 because of its ability to integrate various sub-disciplines of mainstream psychology and its humble science approach. PP 2.0 is willing to put aside dogmatic epistemological positions in the service of the greater good as some have recommended.\n\nMeaning management of the dialectical principles is sensitive to individual and cultural contexts, but is, at the same time, also cognizant of the common good of humility and self-transcendence. This big picture perspective of PP 2.0 avoids many of the excesses associated with the egotistic pursuits of happiness and success in positive psychology as usual.\n\nPP 2.0 is spearheaded by Paul Wong from the International Network on Personal Meaning and Saybrook University, and Itai Ivtzan and Tim Lomas from the University of East London (UEL). Wong is teaching a course on PP 2.0 at Saybrook. Ivtzan is the program director along with Tim who is a lecturer & program leader of the UEL Master of Applied Positive Psychology, which has a PP 2.0 orientation.\n"}
{"id": "5931750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5931750", "title": "Semantic satiation", "text": "Semantic satiation\n\nSemantic satiation (also semantic saturation) is a psychological phenomenon in which repetition causes a word or phrase to temporarily lose meaning for the listener, who then perceives the speech as repeated meaningless sounds. in place of repetition also produces the same effect.\n\nLeon Jakobovits James coined the phrase \"semantic satiation\" in his 1962 doctoral dissertation at McGill University. It was demonstrated as a stable phenomenon that is possibly similar to a cognitive form of reactive inhibition. Prior to that, the expression \"verbal satiation\" had been used along with terms that express the idea of mental fatigue. The dissertation listed many of the names others had used for the phenomenon:\n\nJames presented several experiments that demonstrated the operation of the semantic satiation effect in various cognitive tasks such as rating words and figures that are presented repeatedly in a short time, verbally repeating words then grouping them into concepts, adding numbers after repeating them out loud, and bilingual translations of words repeated in one of the two languages. In each case, the subjects would repeat a word or number for several seconds, then perform the cognitive task using that word. It was demonstrated that repeating a word prior to its use in a task made the task somewhat more difficult.\n\nThe explanation for the phenomenon is that, in the cortex, verbal repetition repeatedly arouses a specific neural pattern that corresponds to the meaning of the word. Rapid repetition makes both the peripheral sensorimotor activity and central neural activation fire repeatedly. This is known to cause reactive inhibition, hence a reduction in the intensity of the activity with each repetition. Jakobovits James (1962) calls this conclusion the beginning of \"experimental neurosemantics\".\n\nStudies that further explored semantic satiation include the work of Pilotti, Antrobus, and Duff (1997), which claimed that it is possible that the true locus of this phenomenon is presemantic instead of semantic adaptation. There is also the experiment conducted by Kouinos et al. (2000), which revealed that semantic satiation is not necessarily a byproduct of \"impoverishment of perceptual inputs.\"\n\nJakobovits cited several possible semantic satiation applications and these include its integration in the treatment of phobias through systematic desensitization. He argued that \"in principle, semantic satiation as an applied tool ought to work wherever some specifiable cognitive activity mediates some behavior that one wishes to alter.\" An application has also been developed to reduce speech anxiety by stutterers by creating semantic satiation through repetition, thus reducing the intensity of negative emotions triggered during speech.\n\nThere are studies that also linked semantic satiation in education. For instance, the work of Tian and Huber (2010) explored the impact of this phenomenon on word learning and effective reading. The authors claimed that this process can serve as a unique approach to test for discounting through loss of association since it allows the separation of the \"lexical level from semantic level effects in a meaning-based task that involves repetitions of words.\" Semantic satiation has also been used as a tool to gain more understanding on language acquisition such as those studies that investigated the nature of multilingualism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855963", "title": "Sethianism", "text": "Sethianism\n\nThe Sethians were one of the main currents of Gnosticism during the 2nd and 3rd century CE, along with Valentinianism. It originated in the second-century CE as a fusion of two distinct Hellenistic Judaic philosophies, and was influenced by Christianity and Middle Platonism.\n\nThe Sethians (Latin \"Sethoitae\") are first mentioned, alongside the Ophites, in the 2nd century, by Irenaeus and in Pseudo-Tertullian (Ch.30). According to Frederik Wisse all subsequent accounts appear to be largely dependent on Irenaeus. Hippolytus repeats information from Irenaeus. \n\nAccording to Epiphanius of Salamis (c.375) Sethians were in his time found only in Egypt and Palestine, although fifty years before they had been found as far away as Greater Armenia. \n\nPhilaster's (4th century CE) \"Catalogue of heresies\" places the Ophites, Cainites, and Sethians as pre-Christian Jewish sects. However, since Sethians identified Seth with Christ (\"Second Logos of the Great Seth\"), Philaster's belief that the Sethians had pre-Christian origins, other than in syncretic absorption of Jewish and Greek pre-Christian sources, has not found acceptance in later scholarship.\n\nAccording to John D. Turner, British and French scholarship tends to see Sethianism as \"a form of heterodox Christian speculation,\" while German and American scholarship views it as \"a distinctly inner-Jewish, albeit syncretistic and heterodox, phenomenon.\" Roelof van den Broek notes that \"Sethianism\" may never have been a separate religious movement, but that the term rather refers to a set of mythological themes which occur in various texts. According to Turner, Sethianism was influenced by Christianity and Middle Platonism, and six phases can be discerned in the interaction of Sethianism with Christianity and Platonism.\n\n\"Phase 1\". According to Turner, two different groups, existing before the second century CE, formed the basis for the Sethians: a Jewish group of possibly priestly lineage, the socalled \"Barbeloites\", named after Barbelo, the first emanation of the Highest God, and a group of Bibilical exegetes, the \"Sethites\", the \"seed of Seth.\"\n\n\"Phase 2\". The \"Barbeloites\" were a baptizing group who, in the mid second century, fused with Christian baptizing groups. They started to view the pre-existing Christ as the \"self-generated (Autogenes) Son of Barbelo,\" who was \"anointed with the Invisible Spirit's \"Christhood\".\" According to Turner, this \"same anointing [was] received by the Barbeloites in their baptismal rite by which they were assimilated to the archetypal Son of Man.\" The earthly Jesus was regarded as the guise of Barbelo, appearing as the Divine Logos, and receiving Christhood when he was baptized.\n\n\"Phase 3\". In the later second century CE the Christianized Barbeloites fused with the Sethites, together forming the Gnostic Sethianists. Seth and Christ were identified as bearers of \"the true image of God who had recently appeared in the world as the Logos to rescue Jesus from the cross.\"\n\n\"Phase 4\". At the end of the second century Sethianism grew apart from the developing Christian orthodoxy, which rejected the docetian view of the Sethians on Christ.\n\n\"Phase 5\". In the early third century Sethianism was fully rejected by Christian heresiologists, while Sethianism shifted toward the contemplative practices of Platonism, while losing their interest in their own origins.\n\n\"Phase 6\". In the late third century Sethianism was attacked by neo-Platonists like Plotinus, and Sethianism alienated from Platonism. In the early to mid fourth century, Sethianism fragmented into various sectarian Gnostic groups, like the Archontics, Audians, Borborites, and Phibionites. Some of these groups existed into the Middle Ages.\n\nSethianism attributed its \"gnosis\" to Seth, third son of Adam and Eve and \"Norea\", wife of Noah, who also plays a role in Mandeanism and Manicheanism. The Sethian cosmogonic myth gives a prologue to Genesis and the rest of the Pentateuch, presenting a radical reinterpretation of the orthodox Jewish conception of creation, and the divine's relation to reality. The Sethian cosmogony is most famously contained in the \"Apocryphon of John\", which describes an Unknown God, the same as Paul had done in the Acts of the Apostles 17:23. Many of the Sethian concepts derived from a fusion of Platonic or Neoplatonic concepts with the Old Testament, as was common in Hellenistic Judaism, exemplified by Philo (20 BC - 40 AD).\n\nFrom the “Unknown God” emanate \"aeons\", a series of paired male and female beings. The first of these is Barbelo, who is coactor in the emanations that follow. The aeons that result are representative of the various attributes of God, which are indiscernible when they are not abstracted from their origin. God and the aeons comprise the sum total of the spiritual universe, known as the \"Pleroma\".\n\nIn some versions of the myth, the Aeon Sophia \"imitates\" God's actions, performing an emanation of her own, without the prior approval of the other aeons in the Pleroma. This results in a crisis within the Pleroma, leading to the appearance of the \"Yaldabaoth\", a \"serpent with a lion's head.\" This figure is commonly known as the demiurge, the \"artisan\" or \"craftsman,\" after the figure in Plato's Timaeus. This being is at first hidden by Sophia but subsequently escapes, stealing a portion of divine power from her in the process.\n\nUsing this stolen power, Yaldabaoth creates a material world in imitation of the divine Pleroma. To complete this task, he spawns a group of entities known collectively as Archons, \"petty rulers\" and craftsmen of the physical world. Like him, they are commonly depicted as theriomorphic, having the heads of animals. Some texts explicitly identify the Archons with the fallen angels described in the Enoch tradition in Judaic apocrypha. \n\nAt this point the events of the Sethian narrative begin to cohere with the events of \"Genesis\", with the demiurge and his archontic cohorts fulfilling the role of the creator. As in \"Genesis\", the demiurge declares himself to be the only god, and that none exist superior to him. However, the audience's knowledge of what has gone before casts this statement, and the nature of the creator itself, in a radically different light.\n\nThe demiurge creates Adam, during the process unwittingly transferring the portion of power stolen from Sophia into the first physical human body. He then creates Eve from Adam's rib, in an attempt to isolate and regain the power he has lost. By way of this he attempts to rape Eve who now contains Sophia's divine power; several texts depict him as failing when Sophia's spirit transplants itself into the Tree of Knowledge. Thereafter, the pair are \"tempted\" by the serpent, and eat of the forbidden fruit, thereby once more regaining the power that the demiurge had stolen.\n\nAs is evident, the addition of the prologue radically alters the significance of events in Eden. Rather than emphasizing a fall of human weakness in breaking God's command, Sethians (and their inheritors) emphasize a crisis of the Divine Fullness as it encounters the ignorance of matter, as depicted in stories about Sophia. Adam and Eve's removal from the Archon's paradise is seen as a step towards freedom from the Archons. Therefore, the snake in the Garden of Eden becomes a heroic, salvific figure rather than an adversary of humanity or a 'proto-Satan'. Eating the fruit of Knowledge is the first act of human salvation from cruel, oppressive powers.\n\nMost surviving Sethian texts are preserved only in Coptic translation of the Greek original. \nVery little direct evidence of Gnostic teaching was available prior to the discovery of the \nNag Hammadi library, a collection of 4th-century Coptic translations of Gnostic texts which were apparently hidden \nin reaction to Athanasius of Alexandria's Easter letter of 367 which banned the use of non-canonical books.\nSome of these texts are known to have been in existence in the 2nd century, but it is impossible to exclude the presence of later syncretic material in their 4th-century translations.\n\n\nThe Gospel of Judas is the most recently discovered Gnostic text. National Geographic has published an English translation of it, bringing it into mainstream awareness. It portrays Judas Iscariot as the \"thirteenth spirit (daemon)\", who \"exceeded\" the evil sacrifices the disciples offered to Saklas by sacrificing the \"man who clothed me (Jesus)\". Its reference to Barbelo and inclusion of material similar to the Apocryphon of John and other such texts, connects the text to Barbeloite and/or Sethian Gnosticism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14103578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14103578", "title": "Society for Exact Philosophy", "text": "Society for Exact Philosophy\n\nThe Society for Exact Philosophy (SEP) is a North American organisation that is devoted to the application of exact, rigorous methods in philosophy. It was founded in 1970 in Montreal and has met annually since 1976, usually alternating between the United States and Canada.\n"}
{"id": "4607066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4607066", "title": "Stichometry of Nicephorus", "text": "Stichometry of Nicephorus\n\nThe Stichometry of Nicephorus is a stichometry by Patriarch Nicephorus I of Constantinople. It is significant in that it counts the number of lines of various Christian texts, many of which have been lost over the course of time. This has enabled modern scholars to determine how much of various fragmentary texts from the New Testament apocrypha and Old Testament apocrypha remain missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "6278148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6278148", "title": "Therapeutic nihilism", "text": "Therapeutic nihilism\n\nTherapeutic nihilism is a contention that it is impossible to cure people or societies of their ills through treatment.\n\nIn medicine, it was connected to the idea that many \"cures\" do more harm than good, and that one should instead encourage the body to heal itself. Michel de Montaigne espoused this view in his \"Essais\" in 1580. This position was later popular, among other places, in France in the 1820s and 1830s, but has mostly faded away in the modern era due to the development of provably effective medicines such as antibiotics. However, a contemporary version of therapeutic nihilism is defended by Jacob Stegenga.\n\nAround the late 19th century, therapeutic nihilism gained some prominence among medical professionals. Proponents of this view claimed that every man should be his own physician through democratization of knowledge. Cultural critic Matthew Arnold wrote that “the stream of tendency of modern medical thought was toward a therapeutic nihilism.”\n\nThe most preferred treatment method at the time was active medication. Active medication represented, to some degree, the cutting-edge of existing medical thought, which also led to assumptions and inaccuracies. For example, when cocaine was first discovered, it was described in all of medical literature to have curative properties towards diseases such as gastralgia, childbirth, and nasal hemorrhage. This was in contrast to routine therapy, where the patient took the same medication consistently. Culturally, doctors were considered heroic figures when active medication worked while unsuccessful cases could be labeled as unfortunate and dismissed. Robert Bartholow, a contemporary physician, said “the science of therapeutics should be made more certain” and that the “true knowledge of drug knowledge is not widely enough diffused.” In other words, the medical treatments of the 19th century have gained theoretical acceptance but were lacking in practicality. When faced with everyday exigencies, many physicians were left clueless. In addition, the ratio of medical practitioners to the US population in 1888 was 1 per 580 persons. The medical community officially recognized these concerns in 1888 when the president of the American Medical Association stated that there were “odious defects in the American medical education system.”\n\nTherapeutic nihilism slowly faded in the 19th century as systematic reform of the medical education system took place, then reappeared in the 20th century in a slightly different fashion than prior. The aggressive empiricism of the 19th century enlightened the medical society of the need to thoroughly evaluate every aspect of clinical practice. Prior to the publication of rigorous research later in the 20th century, some physicians believed the most potent weapon for treatment was not medication, but the regulation of bodily secretions such as extraction of blood, promotion of perspiration, or urination to regain the natural state of equilibrium. Ivan Illich was one of the ardent supporters of therapeutic nihilism. In his book \"Medical Nemesis\", Illich claimed that the great increase in life expectancy and public health experienced in his era was due to improved nutrition and sanitation, rather than innovation in drugs and medicines. He also believed there was an excess of physicians, surgeries and prescriptions. Therapeutic nihilists claimed such excess often led to malpractice and increase in iatrogenic (doctor-caused) injuries, accusing the physicians of creating even more illnesses.\n\nTherapeutic nihilism mostly faded by the mid-20th century, and some researchers have concluded that “therapeutic nihilism was replaced by an armamentarium of therapeutic inventions.”\n\nThe phrase \"therapeutic nihilism\" is included in a modern version of the Hippocratic Oath, traditionally taken by physicians upon graduation, \"... I will apply for the benefit of the sick, all measures [that] are required, avoiding those twin traps of over-treatment and therapeutic nihilism.\"\n"}
{"id": "37116232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37116232", "title": "Trần Quý Cáp", "text": "Trần Quý Cáp\n\nTrần Quý Cáp (chữ Hán: 陳季恰, Dã Hàng, Thích Phu, modern Thái Xuyên 1870 - 1908) was a Vietnamese poet. He was a supporter of the unsuccessful Cần Vương (Aid the King) Movement of 1885–89 which sought to restore sovereign authority to the Nguyễn throne. He was one among several leading scholars in the movement including Phan Đình Phùng, Phan Chu Trinh, Phan Bội Châu, and Huỳnh Thúc Kháng.\n"}
{"id": "5746969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5746969", "title": "Urbano González Serrano", "text": "Urbano González Serrano\n\nUrbano González Serrano (Navalmoral de la Mata; 1848 – Madrid; 1904) was a Spanish philosopher, psychologist, educator, and literary critic of the late 19th century.\n\nSerrano was a supporter of the thought of the German philosopher Karl Christian Friedrich Krause, developing his own strand, called \"krausopositivismo\" (Krausian positivism) by the commentator Adolfo Posada. A disciple of Nicolás Salmerón, he often acted as a substitute to fill this mentor's Chair in Metaphysics at the Universidad Central in Madrid. He was also a pioneering investigator in a number of fields, particularly applied sociology and psychology. As an educator he placed emphasis on the knowledge of physical mechanisms in the rational learning process. He translated works from the German, and co-edited an edition of the poetry of Ramón de Campoamor\n\n"}
{"id": "42233632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42233632", "title": "Utsaha", "text": "Utsaha\n\nUtsāha is an essential factor in matters governing human thoughts and actions, and directs all human achievements because primarily it is the strength of will, firmness of resolve, energy and power, endurance and perseverance, and the joy and elation resulting from achievement of pre-determined objectives.\n\nUtsāha (Sanskrit: उत्साह) means – 'enthusiasm', 'zeal', 'energy', 'strength', 'power', 'fortitude', 'strength of will', 'resolution', 'firmness', 'effort', 'endurance', 'perseverance', cheerfulness', 'joy', 'happiness'; it also means 'initiative' or 'drive'.\n\nSridharswami regards joy as the energy (\"utsāha\") of the mind due to the attainment of cherished objects or the union with a beloved person; in other words, \"utsāha\" is a mode of essence of the mind; it is an essential psychical element in a violation, which precedes a voluntary action. Therefore, Madhusūdana describes it as a resolution of the mind. \"Utsāha\" or enthusiasm is roused in superior persons by the absence of sadness; this dominant state rouses the\" vira rasa\" or the emotion of heroism, and by rousing \"utsāha\", \"jadata\" or stupor and \"nidra\" or sleep caused by physiological action, is inhibited.\n\nBharata, the legendary author of \"Natyashastra\", speaks about the nine primary emotions by which Rasa, the primary sentiment that appeals to poetic sensibility, is nourished; they are – \"rati\" ('enjoyment'), \"hāsya\" ('mirth'), \"śoka\" ('grief'), \"krodha\" ('anger'), \"utsāha\" ('enthusiasm'), \"bhaya\" ('fear'), \"jugupsa\" ('disgust'), \"vismaya\" ('surprise') and \"sama\" or \"śanta\" ('peace'), based respectively on nine \"navarasas\" ('primary sentiments'). \"Utsāha\" or energy relates to persons of the superior types, and this sentiment is caused by Determinants such as absence of sadness, power, patience, heroism and the like, and is represented on the stage by Consequents such as steadiness, munificence, boldness of an undertaking and the like.\n\nAccording to Abhinavagupta the\" rasas\" are like gods, and \"śanta\" is like their highest centre, Shiva, he insists on transcendence as the highest value in literary aesthetics. Bharata does not consider complete detachment, \"Nirveda\" (world-weariness) as the \"sthāyibhāva\" of \"śanta\" because detachment ordinarily does not arise from knowledge of the truth. Ishvarakrishna states that from detachment comes only \"prākrtilaya\" i.e. the dissolution of the eight causes, and not \"moksha\", and Patanjali states that from knowledge of truth arises aversion to the gunas (detachment) which is really the highest state (\"kaśtha\") of knowledge. Atman alone, possessed of pure qualities such as knowledge, bliss etc., and devoid of enjoyment of imagined sense-objects, is the \"sthāyibhāva\" of \"śanta\". \"Śanta\" is \"sama\" and \"sama\" is the true nature of the Self. Energy may be said to be based on egoism as its essence, and \"śanta\" may be said to consist in the loosening of egoism, but there is no state that is devoid of \"utsāha\" (energy). \"Utsāha\" or dynamic energy is the \"sthāyibhāva\" or primary state of \"vira rasa\", without \"utsāha\" one cannot act; \"Nātya Śastra\" VI.66 tells us that \"vira rasa\" is a dynamic energy (\"utsāha\") which arises from various causal factors (\"arthaśeśa\") such as decisiveness, not giving way to depression, not being surprised or confused.\n\nA ruler is supposed to possess and the means of gaining three kinds of \"shakti\" (powers) viz., the powers of \"mantra\" (counsel), \"prabhutva\" (command over material resources) and \"utsāha\" (energy). Yudhishthira considered counsel as being superior to the command over material resources and dignity, and Chanakya puts \"utsāha\" in the lowest position among these three powers. \"Utsāha\" also refers to heroic energy or effort. \"Resolve is the root of king’s righteousness…He who is strong on resolve rules over those strong on words.\" Mahabharata (XII.58.13-15),and \"utsāha\" is one's resolve. The Vedic king was not regarded as the lord of the earth (\"bhu-pati\") but the lord of men (\"nr-pati\") (Rig Veda IV.38.2) or cattle (\"go-pati\")(Rig Veda VI.28.3); it is at the time of the epics that territorial rights had assumed a dominant role.\n\nBhagavad Gita (XVIII.26) refers to \"utsāha\" as the untiring self-application and dynamic enthusiasm for achieving a chosen goal. Krishna tells Arjuna that one who performs his duty without association with the modes of material nature, without false ego, with great determination and enthusiasm ( धृत्युत्साहसमन्वितः), without wavering in success or failure is said to be a worker in the mode of goodness; this means that such a person is always enthusiastic till the completion of such work. Ramana uses the word, \"uran\" to refer to the strength of will, self-control or knowledge or to mean specifically strength of conviction to know oneself.\n\nAurobindo recalls to mind the combined working of the four great instruments of Yoga for gaining \"Yoga-siddhi\" or perfection in yoga, viz., \"śāstra\" i.e. the knowledge of truths, principles, powers and processes that govern self-realization, \"utsāha\", the patient and the persistent action on the force of personal effort on the lines laid down by knowledge, \"gurū\" or teacher and \"kāla\" the instrumentality of Time. \"Utsāha\" is a mental spirit (mānasī kriyā) which leads to promptness in every action. But, in \"Amera Kosha\" it occurs as a synonyme of \"adhyavasāya\" meaning Buddhi or intelligence, and \"Mitākshara\" explains \"adhyavasāya\" or \"utsāha\" – पुरुषार्थसाधन कर्म्मारम्भोऽध्यवसायः - as the effort or perseverance in the performance of acts accomplishing the objects of man. In the context of \"Spandakarikā\" (St.15) which states that only the effort directed towards the product of action disappears here (in states of intense introverted contemplation), it has been explained that \"the product of action\" is the created object of perception, the \"effort directed towards it\" is the exertion or \"utsāha\" inherent in the agency of the Self.\n"}
{"id": "15307640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15307640", "title": "William Nyogen Yeo", "text": "William Nyogen Yeo\n\nWilliam Nyogen Yeo is spiritual director of Hazy Moon Zen Center in Los Angeles, California, one of the twelve Dharma Successors of the late Taizan Maezumi. He is a member of the American Zen Teachers Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15856541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15856541", "title": "Wuji (philosophy)", "text": "Wuji (philosophy)\n\nWújí (; literally \"without ridgepole\") originally meant \"ultimate; boundless; infinite\" in Warring States period (476–221 BCE) Taoist classics, but came to mean the \"primordial universe\" prior to the Taiji 太極 \"Supreme Ultimate\" in Song Dynasty (960–1279 CE) Neo-Confucianist cosmology. \"Wuji\" is also a proper noun in Modern Standard Chinese usage; for instance, Wuji County in Hebei.\n\nChinese \"wuji\" \"limitless; infinite\" is a compound of \"wu\" 無 \"without; no; not have; there is not; nothing, nothingness\" and \"ji\" \"ridgepole; roof ridge; highest/utmost point; extreme; earth's pole; reach the end; attain; exhaust\". In analogy with the figurative meanings of English \"pole\", Chinese \"ji\" 極 \"ridgepole\" can mean \"geographical pole; direction\" (e.g., \"siji\" 四極 \"four corners of the earth; world's end\"), \"magnetic pole\" (\"Beiji\" 北極 \"North Pole\" or \"yinji\" 陰極 \"negative pole; cathode\"), or \"celestial pole\" (\"baji\" 八極 \"farthest points of the universe; remotest place\").\n\nCommon English translations of the cosmological \"Wuji\" are \"Ultimateless\" (Fung and Bodde 1953, Robinet 2008) or \"Limitless\" (Zhang and Ryden 2002), but other versions are \"the ultimate of Nothingness\" (Chang 1963), \"that which has no Pole\" (Needham and Ronan 1978), or \"Non-Polar\" (Adler 1999).\n\n\"Wuji\" 無極 references are found in Chinese classic texts associated with diverse schools of Chinese philosophy, including Taoism, Confucianism, and School of Names. Zhang and Ryden summarize the philosophical transformation of \"wuji\" \"limitless\".\nThe expression 'limitless' and its relatives are found in the \"Laozi\" and the \"Zhuangzi\" and also in writings of the logicians. It has no special philosophical meaning. In Song-dynasty philosophy, however, the same expression 'limitless' should be translated as 'ultimate of beinglessness,' for the negative element is no longer qualifying the word 'limit' but is rather qualified by the word 'limit,' here to be translated into Song philosophical jargon as 'ultimate'. Wu = Nothingness, Void, Zero; Chi = Energy. Even science now says that the ground state of our universe is made of zero point energy. Wu-chi is the source of Tai-Chi. (2002:71) \n\nThe term \"Wuji\" first appears in a \"Daodejing\" context (c. 4th century BCE) about returning to one's original nature.\nKnow whiteness, Maintain blackness, and be a model for all under heaven. By being a model for all under heaven, Eternal integrity will not err. If eternal integrity does not err, You will return to infinity. (28, tr. Mair 1990:93) \n\nThe Taoist \"Zhuangzi\" (c. 3rd–2nd centuries BCE) uses \"wuji\" \"limitless; infinity\" four times.\nI was astounded by his words, which were limitless as the Milky Way. They were extravagant and remote from human experience. (1, tr. Mair 1994:6) \nWho can associate in non-association and cooperate in noncooperation? Who can ascend to heaven and wander in the mists, bounding through infinity, forgetting themselves in life forever and ever without end? (6, tr. Mair 1994:59) \nTo enter the gate of inexhaustibility And to roam in the fields of infinity. I shall mingle my light with that of the sun and moon, And will become eternal with heaven and earth. (11, tr. Mair 1994:97) \n[He] would forget everything, yet he would possess everything. His tranquility would be unlimited, yet a multitude of excellences would follow in his wake. This is the Way of heaven and earth, the integrity of the sage. (15, tr. Mair 1994:145) \n\"Wuji\" in \"Zhuangzi\", say Zhang and Ryden (2002:72), \"always refers to the infinite and the boundless.\"\n\nThis text also uses the related word \"wuqiong\" 無窮 \"infinite; endless; inexhaustible\" 25 times, for instance,\nSupposing there were someone who could ride upon the truth of heaven and earth, who could chariot upon the transformations of the six vital breaths and thereby go wandering in infinity, what would he have to rely on? (1, tr. Mair 1994:6) \nThe \"Zhuangzi\" uses \"wuqiong\" quoting a relativistic theory from the School of Names philosopher Hui Shi; (tr. Mair 1994:344) \"The southern direction is limitless yet it has a limit.\"\n\nThe (c. 3rd century BCE) Confucianist \"Xunzi\" uses \"wuji\" \"boundless\" three times. One context describing a legendary horse parallels it with \"wuqiong\" \"inexhaustible\".\nQiji could cover 1,000 \"li\" in a single day, but if a worn-out nag takes the journey in ten stages, then it, too, can cover the distance. Are you going to try to exhaust the inexhaustible and pursue the boundless? If you do, then though you break your bones and wear out your flesh in the attempt, in the end it will be impossible to reach your goal. (2, tr. Knoblock 1988:155) \n\nThe (2nd century BCE) \"Huainanzi\" uses \"Wuji\" six times. One syntactically playful passage says a sage can \"qiong wuqiong\" 窮無窮 \"exhaust the inexhaustible\" (used in \"Xunzi\" above) and \"ji wuji\" 極無極 \"[go to the] extreme [of] the extremeless\".\nIt is only these men who know how to preserve the root from which all creation springs, and the causes, or antecedents, of all the affairs of life. Therefore they are all able to pursue their investigations without limit, and to reach that which has no end; they understand all things thoroughly, without any misconception or delusion; they respond to all requirements as the echo to a sound, and that untiringly; and this ability may be called the endowment of Heaven. (1, tr. Balfour 1884:86) \n\nThe (c. 4th century CE) Taoist \"Liezi\" uses \"wuji\" \"limitless\" eight times in a cosmological dialogue (with \"wuqiong\" \"inexhaustible\" once).\n\n\"Have there always been things?\"\n–\"If once there were no things, how come there are things now? Would you approve if the men who live after us say there are no things now?\"\n\n\"In that case, do things have no before and after?\" \n–\"The ending and starting of things have no limit from which they began. The start of one is the end of another, the end of one is the start of another. Who knows which came first? But what is outside things, what was before events, I do not know\"\n\n\"In that case, is everything limited and exhaustible above and below in the eight directions?\" \n–\"I do not know\" ...It is Nothing which is limitless, Something which is inexhaustible. (2) How do I know this? [textual lacuna] ... (3) But also there is nothing limitless outside what is limitless, and nothing inexhaustible within what is inexhaustible. There is no limit, but neither is there anything limitless; there is no exhausting, but neither is there anything inexhaustible. That is why I know that they are limitless and inexhaustible, yet do not know where they may be limited and exhaustible\". (5, tr. Graham 1980:94-5) \n\nThe (11th century CE) \"Taijitu shuo\" 太極圖說 \"Explanation of the Diagram of the Supreme Ultimate\", written by the Zhou Dunyi (1017-1073 CE), was the cornerstone of Neo-Confucianist cosmology. His brief text synthesized Confucianist metaphysics of the \"Yijing\" with aspects of Daoism and Chinese Buddhism. In the \"Taijitu\" diagram, \"wuji\" is represented as a blank circle and \"taiji\" as a circle with a center point (world embryo) or with broken and unbroken lines (yin and yang).\n\nZhou's key terms Wuji and Taiji appear in the famous opening phrase \"wuji er taiji\" 無極而太極, which Adler notes could also be translated \"The Supreme Polarity that is Non-Polar!\".\nNon-polar (\"wuji\") and yet Supreme Polarity (\"taiji\")! The Supreme Polarity in activity generates \"yang\"; yet at the limit of activity it is still. In stillness it generates \"yin\"; yet at the limit of stillness it is also active. Activity and stillness alternate; each is the basis of the other. In distinguishing \"yin\" and \"yang\", the Two Modes are thereby established. The alternation and combination of \"yang\" and \"yin\" generate water, fire, wood, metal, and earth. With these five [phases of] \"qi\" harmoniously arranged, the Four Seasons proceed through them. The Five Phases are simply \"yin\" and \"yang\"; \"yin\" and \"yang\" are simply the Supreme Polarity; the Supreme Polarity is fundamentally Non-polar. [Yet] in the generation of the Five Phases, each one has its nature. (tr. Adler 1999:673-4) \n\nRobinet explains the relationship.\nThe \"taiji\" is the One that contains Yin and Yang, or the Three (as stated in \"Hanshu\" 21A). This Three is, in Taoist terms, the One (Yang) plus the Two (Yin), or the Three that gives life to all beings (\"Daode jing\" 42), the One that virtually contains the multiplicity. Thus, the \"wuji\" is a limitless void, whereas the \"taiji\" is a limit in the sense that it is the beginning and the end of the world, a turning point. The \"wuji\" is the mechanism of both movement and quiescence; it is situated before the differentiation between movement and quiescence, metaphorically located in the space-time between the \"kun\" 坤, or pure Yin, and \"fu\" 復, the return of the Yang. In other terms, while the Taoists state that \"taiji\" is metaphysically preceded by \"wuji\", which is the Dao, the Neo-Confucians say that the \"taiji\" is the Dao. (2008:1058) \n\n"}
{"id": "56377831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56377831", "title": "Xianzi (monk)", "text": "Xianzi (monk)\n\nXianzi (), or Kensu in Japanese, also known as the Shrimp Eater, was a semi-historical Chan/Zen monk, considered to be one of the “scattered sages,” who were deviant or otherwise unusual figures within the Chan tradition. Infamous for his iconoclastic breaking of the taboo on eating meat set forth in the Vinaya Code of monastic rules, the Shrimp Eater appears in several traditional Zen paintings as both a comedic figure that underscores the Zen tradition of humor, as well as an eccentric, enlightened individual.\n\nMost information on Xianzi comes from the \"Transmission of the Lamp\", a collection of hagiographies (1004-1007 C.E.) intended to highlight the “anti-textualism and iconoclasm of the Chan monks”. Included within this collection of hagiographies are many nontraditional Chan Buddhist figures, such as Xianzi, who never became patriarchs or abbots on their own, but whose stories were still considered vital for the transmission of Chan teachings. Additional information on Xianzi comes from the poems and inscriptions that monks wrote on paintings of him. One such inscription on a painting of Xianzi by the Japanese painter Josetsu reads:\nedit.Since there is very little hard information on Xianzi other than what is written in the \"Transmission of the Lamp\", inscriptions such as these are important in understanding the context in which he was discussed, the role that he played in Zen teaching, as well as in filling in some of the basic details of his life story.\n\nIt is recorded in the Jing-de Era Record that Xianzi lived in China during the Tang Dynasty (618-907) and was a pupil to Dongshan Liangjie 洞山良價, the founder of the Caodong 曹洞, or Sōtō, school of Chan Buddhism. Though he was known to never have taken students of his own or teach the dharma (Sengai), Xianzi was renowned for his eccentricities. Specifically, he was known to catch and eat shrimp, clams, and prawns from nearby lakes and streams, despite the Buddhist prohibition against consuming meat. Paradoxically, Xianzi was said to have attained enlightenment a moment after he had caught a shrimp and was preparing himself to consume it. For this reason, he was understood to be an enlightened individual and carrier of the transmission, rather than a degenerate monk and rule breaker.\n\nIn addition to his eccentricities regarding the consumption of meat, Xianzi was known as a wanderer, never living in or belonging to an official monastery despite his lineage ties to the founder of one of Chinese preeminent schools of Chan Buddhism. Instead, he preferred to mingle with laypeople, spending most of his days catching his dinner. He did not wear the elaborate robes of a more traditional Chinese monk, instead wearing the same ragged robe during both summer and winter. At night, he slept beneath the paper offerings at the White Horse Temple, much as a homeless would in the modern day. Some have even speculated that he was crazy, although some secondary sources suggest that he was just feigning madness.\n\nThe Vinaya was the set of rules and principles that governed many Buddhist monastic communities. Among these rules were prohibitions against having sexual intercourse, regulations on begging, and an iron-clad ban on eating meat. Monks who broke these rules were said to have committed “pārājika,” or the eight misbehaviors and were declared “asaṃvāsa,” which means outside of the Buddhist religious community. Those deemed outside of the Buddhist religious community were not excommunicated per se, but rather were seen as deviants who were not representative of the tradition that they espoused. As someone who routinely ate fish, Xianzi would have certainly been considered asaṃvāsa under the Vinaya Code. The very paintings of Xianzi violate the Vinaya Code to a certain degree, because scholarship shows that originally, the code prohibited humor and laughter, believing it to be counterproductive to a monk’s serious undertakings.\n\nOther parts of the Vinaya Code insist on humility and poverty. The expensive, elaborate robes of high society were frowned on, and monks were supposed to wear the cast-off rags of society. Additionally, in the late 8th century, the Chan master Bozhang recognized the changing dynamics of monastic life, and created the Bozhang qinggui 百丈淸規, which were additional rules for monastic life. These new rules reformed the ways that monks obtained their food, mandating that monks devote part of their time not just to begging for alms, but instead providing some sort of labor, causing monks to work for their food. Many farms were set up alongside monasteries as a result. Although Xianzi did break some basic Vinaya rules, he also upheld others. His dress is simple and although his consumption of meat may have been blasphemous, he did fulfill the responsibility laid out in the Bozhang qinggui of laboring for his food.\n\nHumor is thought to be one of the defining elements of Chan/Zen teaching, and that humor is almost certainly reflected in the case of Xianzi. Some argue that Chan/Zen masters used humor as a means of conveying its essential wordless transmission. In a similar way that Mahākāśyapa wordlessly received the transmission of the dharma through Śākyamuni Buddha’s flower sermon, so too will those who look upon a humorous Chan/Zen painting wordlessly receive the transmission, provided that they get the joke. Understanding humor requires rigor and training, because humor without full-mindedness is grotesque and meaningless, while full-mindedness without awareness of its limitations is empty. In this way, it is argued that Chan/Zen humor is used to replicate the experience of no-mind that Chan/Zen teachings are based on.\n\nZen humor, as in the case of Xianzi, is typically irreverent and iconoclastic. The paradox of Xianzi is that even though he shamelessly breaks monastic rules by eating meat, that is the way in which he achieved enlightenment. An inscription on a painting of Xianzi by the Chinese monk-painter Muqi Fachang 牧溪法常 (ca. 1210-ca. 1279) alludes to this, reading:\n.This kind of irreverence for Buddhist teachings and traditions is repeated in other figures such as the ebullient Budai/Hotei 布袋, known literally as the laughing monk. It is speculated that the reason for Chan/Zen’s strong use of humor is that although Chan/Zen Buddhism held itself as being unique for having received the true transmission in an unbroken lineage from Shakyamuni Buddha, in everyday life there were few things that separated Chan/Zen monks from those of other sects. They frequently lived in the same monasteries, abided by the same rules, and read the same sutras. Humor was used to differentiate Chan/Zen from the rest, because it made fun of the very precepts that all of the other schools adhered to so rigorously. By asserting its iconoclastic side, Chan/Zen teachings professed their true knowledge and possession of the transmission.\n\nXianzi is one of several traditional Chan/Zen figures known as the “scattered sages,” many of which are depicted with in the same humorous, iconoclastic light. Examples of other Scattered Sages include the laughing monk Budai/Hotei, Tanka 丹霞 the icon burner, the Four Sleepers (Hanshan 寒山, Shide 拾得, Fenggan 豐干, and Fenggan’s tiger,) and Zhimeng 智猛.\n\nZhimeng in particular bears similarities to Xianzi, because he was a figure famous for eating pig’s heads as his favorite treat, much in the same way that Xianzi favored eating shrimp. As a result of their similarities, it was not uncommon for hanging scrolls of Xianzi and Zhimeng to be exhibited together. The artist Josetsu (1405-1496,) for instance, painted the two individually, but their paintings are strikingly similar and are displayed together.\n\nSome scholars theorize that many of the Scattered Sages actually predate Chan/Zen Buddhism and exist outside of its religious context. They were absorbed into the Chan/Zen pantheon as a means of co-opting traditional Chinese culture, enhancing Chan/Zen’s cultural appeal and diverting local customs into a Buddhist framework. However, the evidence for this in the case of Xianzi is limited and no hard conclusions can be drawn.\n\nAlthough his name can be translated as “Master Clam” and in his biography he is said to have eaten both shrimp and clams, Xianzi is always painted holding a shrimp in his hand and never a clam. Additionally, he is frequently painted with his fishing net in one hand to show that he caught his prey himself. His beard is always painted with blurry grey brushstrokes, and although his robes are always relatively simple and never decorated or elaborate, sometimes they more closely resemble the traditional robes of monk, rather than those of a peasant. His humble lifestyle is never drawn into question and his poverty is always made clear. Lastly, all known paintings of Xianzi show him eating shrimp – details of his life outside of his shrimp-eating habit are sometimes alluded to in the inscriptions and poems written at the top of the painting, but they are never explicitly shown.\n\nMuch of Xianzi’s iconography remains the same from painting to painting, but there seem to be three general categories of depicting him; in one, Xianzi holds the shrimp above his head with his mouth open as if to eat it, while in the second he holds it in front of his face at eye level, intently examining it. In the former category, Xianzi is also frequently smiling and standing more informally, while in the latter category his posture is more restrained. Although when Xianzi is painted looking at the shrimp with his mouth closed he can either be wearing the robes of a monk or the simpler, more ragged robes of the destitute, he is never painted both with his mouth open to eat the shrimp and the robes of a monk. In those paintings, his dress is not representative of the monastic tradition. The third way in which Xianzi is painted shows him actually fishing, with one shrimp already in his hand to show what exactly he is doing. He is intent on his work and pursues no other activities.\n\nLike many paintings done of the “scattered sages,” all paintings of Xianzi are done in the style of apparition painting. They are monochromatic ink paintings, frequently executed on hanging scrolls. The reason for the dominance of this particular style is that even though most paintings of Xianzi and other Scattered Sages were done by monk painters, it is understood that the audience they were trying to appeal to was the Chinese literati and scholastic community of Song Dynasty China, which preferred the apparition painting style. These paintings were frequently given as gifts to members of the scholar elite, and so they naturally reflected the tastes of their recipients.\n\n"}
