{"id": "12961175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12961175", "title": "2/4th Lancers Regiment", "text": "2/4th Lancers Regiment\n\nThe 2/4th Lancers Regiment () was a cavalry regiment in the Land Component of the Belgian Armed Forces. It was created by the merging of the 2nd Lancers and the 4th Lancers Regiments. The regiment was the Armoured Battalion of the 1st Brigade.\n\n"}
{"id": "57410230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57410230", "title": "2018 CervicalCheck cancer controversy", "text": "2018 CervicalCheck cancer controversy\n\nThe 2018 CervicalCheck cancer controversy was a scandal that involved several woman in the Republic of Ireland suing the Health Service Executive for receiving incorrect smear test results for cervical cancer.\n\nOn 26 April 2018 the HSE confirmed that 206 women developed cervical cancer after having a misdiagnosed CervicalCheck smear test. In May, HSE director-general Tony O'Brien took temporary leave of absence from the board of a US medical company amid renewed calls for him to stand aside from his position due to the ongoing controversy. Tony O'Brien announced his resignation as director-general of the HSE with effect from close of business on 11 May.\n\nEmma Mhic Mhathúna, a terminally ill mother of five children who was one of the women given an inaccurate negative test made national media headlines in May, including an interview on Morning Ireland. Appearing on \"The Late Late Show\", she called for the HSE to be \"dismantled and reassembled\". Mhic Mhathúna passed away on 7 October 2018.\n\nVicky Phelan, a terminally ill mother of two children, whose legal case against the state was one of the catalysts for the publication of the controversy, was named as one of the BBC's 100 Women in 2018.\n\nIncreased scrutiny into BreastCheck and BowelScreen has followed from this controversy.\n"}
{"id": "11434667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11434667", "title": "A Lost Man", "text": "A Lost Man\n\nA Lost Man (, , Levantine Arabic \"rajolon ḍāˀyeˁ\") is a 2007 Lebanese film by the Lebanese director Danielle Arbid.\n\nThe film premiered on 18 March during the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, in the Directors' Fortnight section. It is possibly the most sexually graphic film ever made by an Arab director. The film was inspired by the life of the French photographer Antoine D'Agata.\n\nThe story is about a French photographer Thomas Koré (Melvil Poupaud), who is searching for extraordinary experiences. Koré has become so detached from humanity that the only way he can connect with other people is to have—and photograph—bizarre and demeaning sexual encounters with prostitutes. When he meets on his path Fouad Saleh (Alexander Siddig), a man with memory problems, he realized that Fouad is even more lost than he, and befriends him. The French man then tries to discover Fouad's history.\n\n"}
{"id": "15021038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15021038", "title": "AccountAbility", "text": "AccountAbility\n\nAccountAbility is an independent, global, not-for-profit organisation promoting accountability, sustainable business practices and corporate responsibility. It is a self-managed partnership, governed by its multi-stakeholder network.\n\nAccountAbility was established in London, United Kingdom in 1995 with the stated aim to “develop new tools, thinking and connections that enable individuals, institutions and alliances to respond better to global challenges”. The organization has offices in London, New York, Washington D.C., Johannesburg, São Paulo and Beijing.\nAccountAbility's work is closely related to the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31268802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31268802", "title": "American-Soviet Peace Walks", "text": "American-Soviet Peace Walks\n\nDuring the 20th century a number of peace walks were organized involving the citizens of the United States and the USSR. These peace walks, or peace marches, represented citizen diplomacy initiatives promoting peace and Nuclear disarmament through direct person-to-person interaction among the citizens of the two Cold War opponent states.\n\nA peace walk from San Francisco, US, to Moscow, USSR, took place from December 1960 to October 1961. The walk was organized by Committee for Nonviolent Action and promoted nonviolence and unilateral nuclear disarmament.\n\nLyttle, B. (1966). You come with naked hands: The story of the San Francisco to Moscow march for peace. Raymond, N.H: Greenleaf Books.\n\nLehmann, J. (1966). We walked to Moscow. Raymond, N.H: Greenleaf Books.\n\nDeming, Barabara. The long walk for peace: new mission to Moscow. In Christman, H. M. (1964). Peace and arms. New York: Sheed and Ward.\n\nWernicke, Gunter and Wittner, Lawrence S.(1999) Lifting the Iron Curtain: The Peace March to Moscow of 1960–1961. The International History Review, 21: 4, 900–917.\n\nUnited Press International. (1961, October 4). Peace Marchers Reach Red Square but Soviet Prohibits Speeches. \"The New York Times\", pp. 1–2.\n\nAssociated Press. (1961, October 4). Banners Urge Disarmament. \"The New York Times\", p. 2.\n\nSyracuse Peace Council (October 16, 1961). San Francisco to Moscow. Peace News Letter, Syracuse, NY: New York State Peace Council.\n\nDavid N. Rich - San Francisco to Moscow - Walk for Peace 1960 - 1961. David N. Rich's website\n\nA 450-mile peace walk from Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg) to Moscow in the USSR took place from June 15 to July 8, 1987. The walk, intended to promote peace and help end the nuclear arms race, was organized by the International Peace Walk, Inc. About 230 American and 200 Soviet citizens took part in the walk. To mark the conclusion of the walk, the first rock concert featuring American and Soviet performers took place at the Ismailovo Stadium in Moscow on the 4 July, symbolically coinciding with the Independence Day holiday in the U.S.\n\nSegal, F., & Basten, F. E. (1988). The American Soviet walk: Taking steps to end the nuclear arms race. Santa Monica, CA: United World of the Universe Foundation.\n\nGraham, B., & Greenfield, R. (2004). Chapter Twenty-One: Rocking Behind the Curtain, In Bill Graham presents: My life inside rock and out (pp. 491–505). New York, N.Y: Da Capo Press.\n\nBrigham, S. (October 1, 2010). The American-Soviet Walks: Large-Scale Citizen Diplomacy at Glasnost's Outset. Peace & Change, 35: 4, pp. 594–625.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, April 7). U.S.-Soviet Anti-Arms March to Moscow Planned. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 4.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, June 12). Mission to Moscow: Joint Venture for Peace American Contingent in Virginia Trains for Start of Walk Next week at Leningrad. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, June 15). Americans Embark on Person-to-Person Soviet Peace Walk. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, June 18). Peace Walkers Fit Fun, Friendships Into Tight Schedule. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, June 24). Peace Marchers Capture Soviets' Attention: Thousands Greet Walkers With Curiosity and Emotional Displays. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, June 26). Rain Fails to Dampen Peace March Spirit. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, July 1). Americans Encounter the Soviet Curious. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, July 3). The Peace Marchers Arrive in Moscow: Muted Welcome Suggests Parade Played Better in the Provinces. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, July 5). Laid-Back Listeners at Moscow Fete 1st American-Soviet Rock Concert Held. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 5.\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1987, July 9). Dramatic Encounter Caps U.S.-Soviet Peace March. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nHilburn, Robert. (1987, July 8). City Of Hope Honoree Graham Hopeful About More Rock With Soviets…BUT. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 1.\n\nSimons, Jamie and Lapidese, Jon. (1987, July 5). Reebok Diplomacy: Allan Affeldt of Newport Beach, the Activist Behind the Peace March on Moscow. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 16.\n\nSimons, Jamie and Lapidese, Jon. (1987, July 5). Rock in a Hard Place. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 20.\n\nWillman, Chris. (1987, October 24). Television Reviews: Rock on Cable. \"Los Angeles Times\", p. 11.\n\nTaubman, Philip. (1987, July 5). At Soviet Rock Concert, the Beat of Security. The New York Times.\n\nJanet Kinosian (July 1987). Walking for Peace. Orange Coast Magazine.\n\nIn June–July 1988, The American Soviet Peace Walk (ASPW) sponsored by the International Peace Walk, Inc. (IPW), organized and sponsored 230 Soviets citizens and 200 Americans from all walks of life. They started their travels from Washington, D.C. went on to Santa Monica, CA and continued on to San Francisco, to experience the America way of life. On July 16, 1988, the final concert was organized and produced by Summer of Love Productions Producers, Ron Frazier and Bill McCarthy, who had hosted the previous June concert event for the marchers in Los Angeles. On July 16, 1988, the American Soviet Peace Walk concert finale event happened at the Band Shell in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park with an estimated public attendance of 25,000 plus. The Producers give many thanks to all participants, the volunteers, and performing friends of the Summer of Love 20th Anniversary 1987 series that benefited the San Francisco Food Bank and ran through to the Concert of July 16, 1988. Congratulations are given to both the American and Soviet Performing Artists of the \"American Soviet Peace Walk Concert\". Participants and performances achieved the results as Change Makers that has advanced the cause for Peace and People-to-People Awareness. Artists' performances in concerts that achieve Global attention are needed as an ongoing effort to sustain awareness of and for Peace. Special Thanks go to; Susan Ramser, Producers Assistant who hosted the Soviet Artists on their arrival to San Francisco with the help of a Cadillac mini-fleet, Arthur Meyer, Artistic Director, and to Pete Sears of the original Jefferson Starship who assisted in the musical coordination and inviting cause-aware musician friends to participate. He organized the final musical portion of the show, as well as playing piano with each act. The Crowd was pleased by Mr. Jerry Garcia helped to promote the event, Pete Sears was responsible for Jerry's appearance. The Recreation and Parks Department prohibited advertising because they were concerned about fans camping and overcrowding, and so the concert happened without mainstream advertisement. But with the assisted word of mouth promotion, and one free newspaper paragraph event notice and the 1988 finale Poster presented 3 days out, all led to the success of the event. Guest Artists Performers: ALEXANDER GRADSKY, TIME MACHINE, COLLECTIVE VISION, THE TELEPHONE TRUST, YKRANIAN WOMEN'S CHOUS, THE SOVIET YOUTH PERFORMERS…Friends of Summer of Love and special invites; BABA OLATUNJI, JERRY GARCIA. MICKEY HART, GRACE SLICK, MERL SAUNDERS, MIMI FARINA, JOHN CIPPOLINA, PETE SEARS, ZERO, NORTON BUFFALO, MARK BENNO, EMMIT POWELL & THE GOSPELL ELITES, OGIE YOCHA, and surprise guest PAUL KANTNER. The American Soviet Peace Walk 1988 Poster & Beyond Web-Wall: http://www.summeroflove.tv/\n\nNews Advisory. (1988, June 17). 220 Soviets arrive in Washington, ready to start cross-country trek. PR Newswire.\n\nRubin, Trudy. (1988, June 29). Soviet Press: The 'Warriors Of Perestroika'. \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\".\n\nWestside Digest. (1988, June 30). Santa Monica: Cross-Country March Honored. \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nZiaya, Christine. (1988, July 8). Peace Walkers Reach High Note in Trek: Soviets, Americans Due at Concert. \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nHendrix, Kathleen. (1988, July 15). The Great American Glasnost Tour: In a Peace Walk Across the U.S., Soviets Explore the Basics: Bikers, Barbecues and the Beach. \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nAbout 460 American and Soviet citizens walked for peace from Odessa to Kiev in the Ukraine, USSR over five weeks in late summer of 1988.\n\nMartin, James. Soviet-American Peace Walk 1988. exKZ.org. Retrieved April 2, 2011.\n\nAbout 50 Americans and 100 Soviets calling themselves \"Russian North,\" participated in an international peace walk, passing through cities like Archangelsk and Severodvinsk. The march promoted nonviolence and a ban on nuclear testing.\n\nThis section includes materials that contain references to more than one peace walk, such as reviews of events which span longer time periods and historical trends.\n\nSherbakova, V. A. (2009) The Marches of High Hopes. Peace and Conciliation, Journal of the International Federation for Peace and Conciliation of the Russian Federation, 2: 39, 37–45. (text is in Russian language)\n\nSubheadings:\n\n– American-Soviet \"Peace March\" June 16 – July 19, 1988.\n\n– The 20 Year Anniversary of the Soviet-American Peace Walk: Odessa-Kiev.\n\n– Address to all governments and peoples.\n\n– Soviet-American Meeting for Peace, October 12–18, 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33228499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33228499", "title": "Archaeological Museum of São Miguel de Odrinhas", "text": "Archaeological Museum of São Miguel de Odrinhas\n\nThe Archaeological Museum of São Miguel de Odrinhas (Sintra) gathers together around the hermitage of São Miguel a considerable number of epigraphic stones found amongst the Roman ruins present at the place and surrounding region.\n\nOlisipo\n\n"}
{"id": "36290643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36290643", "title": "Baltika Group", "text": "Baltika Group\n\nThe Baltika Group () is an Estonian fashion brandhouse and retailer that operates Monton, Mosaic, Baltman, Bastion and Ivo Nikkolo retail concepts. Since May 2013 Baltika also represents Blue Inc London fashion brand in the Baltics. Group brands are represented in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Serbia and Germany. Baltika is listed in the Tallinn Stock Exchange.\n\nThe company was established in 1928 in Tallinn as a raincoats manufacturer and bore the name Gentleman. In 1959 the company was restructured and given the name Baltika. The company was one of the first privatized countries in Estonia in the beginning of 1990's.\n"}
{"id": "8971127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8971127", "title": "Berchtoldstag", "text": "Berchtoldstag\n\nBerchtoldstag (also \"Bechtelistag, Bächtelistag, Berchtelistag, Bärzelistag,\" in Liechtenstein \"Bechtelstag, Bechtle\") is an Alemannic holiday, known in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. It is near New Year's Day, during the Rauhnächte, in Switzerland nearly always on 2 January (in Frauenfeld on the third Monday in January), with the status of a public holiday in a number of cantons (AG, BE, FR, GL, JU, LU, NE, OW, SH, SO, TG, VD, ZG, ZH). Its observation is attested since the 14th century, although celebrations were limited after the Protestant Reformation.\n\nVarious theories exist concerning the holiday′s name. Blessed Berchtold of Engelberg abbey died circa 2 November 1197, and the abbey could have been important enough to translate his feast out of advent. According to others, it celebrates a hunting trip circa 1191 by Duke Berchtold V of Zähringen, who decided to name his new city after the first animal he killed on that trip, hence Bern, Switzerland. Another theory associates the name with the verb 'berchten', which means \"to walk around, asking for food\". The name may also relate to Perchta, mythological or folkloric female guardian of animals, and sometimes leader of the Wild Hunt, since Twelfth Night traditions even in the Spanish Pyrenees can feature visits from a transformed human/animal. The most likely explanation is offered by the \"Schweizerisches Idiotikon\" that considers it derived from Middle High German \"berhttac\" or \"berhteltac,\" which translated the Greek \"epiphanias\". Indeed, Berchtoldstag especially occurs in Protestant regions where Epiphany has been abolished and replaced by a second day-off after New Year′s day.\n\nIn the German-speaking cantons of Zurich, Thurgovia and some parts of Central Switzerland, families celebrate the holiday with meals at pubs or offered by traditional societies. The Argovian village of Hallwil holds a mask parade with entries symbolizing fertility, age, ugliness, wisdom, vice, etc. In the French-speaking Vaud, children celebrate Berchtoldstag with neighborhood parties which include folk dancing and singing.\n\nNuts are associated with this holiday. They are both eaten in a \"nut feast\" and used for games. Children build \"hocks\" of four nuts close together on the ground with a fifth nut balanced on top.\n\n"}
{"id": "2421391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421391", "title": "Bhutan", "text": "Bhutan\n\nBhutan (; '), officially the Kingdom of Bhutan ( '), is a landlocked country in South Asia. Located in the Eastern Himalayas, it is bordered by Tibet Autonomous Region of China in the north, the Sikkim state of India and the Chumbi Valley of Tibet in the west, the Arunachal Pradesh state of India in the east, and the states of Assam and West Bengal in the south. Bhutan is geopolitically in South Asia and is the region's second least populous nation after the Maldives. Thimphu is its capital and largest city, while Phuntsholing is its financial center.\n\nThe independence of Bhutan has endured for centuries and it has never been colonized in its history. Situated on the ancient Silk Road between Tibet, the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia, the Bhutanese state developed a distinct national identity based on Buddhism. Headed by a spiritual leader known as the Zhabdrung Rinpoche, the territory was composed of many fiefdoms and governed as a Buddhist theocracy. Following a civil war in the 19th century, the House of Wangchuck reunited the country and established relations with the British Empire. Bhutan fostered a strategic partnership with India during the rise of Chinese communism and has a disputed border with China. In 2008, Bhutan transitioned from an absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchy and held the first election to the National Assembly of Bhutan. The National Assembly of Bhutan is part of the bicameral parliament of the Bhutanese democracy.\n\nThe country's landscape ranges from lush subtropical plains in the south to the sub-alpine Himalayan mountains in the north, where there are peaks in excess of . Gangkhar Puensum is the highest peak in Bhutan, and it may also be the highest unclimbed mountain in the world. The wildlife of Bhutan is notable for its diversity.\n\nIn South Asia, Bhutan ranks first in economic freedom, ease of doing business, and peace; third in per capita income; and is the least corrupt country . However, Bhutan continues to be a least developed country. Hydroelectricity accounts for the major share of its exports. The government is a parliamentary democracy; the head of state is the King of Bhutan, known as the \"Dragon King\". Bhutan maintains diplomatic relations with 52 countries and the European Union, but does not have formal ties with the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. It is a member of the United Nations, SAARC, BIMSTEC and the Non-Aligned Movement. The Royal Bhutan Army maintains a close relationship with the Indian Armed Forces.\n\nBhutan is also notable for pioneering the concept of gross national happiness.\n\nThe precise etymology of \"Bhutan\" is unknown, although it is likely to derive from the Tibetan endonym \"Bod\" used for Tibet. Traditionally, it is taken to be a transcription of the Sanskrit \"Bhoṭa-anta\" \"end of Tibet\", a reference to Bhutan's position as the southern extremity of the Tibetan plateau and culture.\n\nSince the 17th century the official name of Bhutan has been \"Druk yul\" (country of the Drukpa Lineage, the Dragon People, or the Land of the Thunder Dragon, a reference to the country's dominant Buddhist sect) and Bhutan only appears in English-language official correspondence.\n\nNames similar to Bhutan — including Bohtan, Buhtan, Bottanthis, Bottan and Bottanter — began to appear in Europe around the 1580s. Jean-Baptiste Tavernier's 1676 \"Six Voyages\" is the first to record the name \"Boutan\". However, in every case, these seem to have been describing not modern Bhutan but the Kingdom of Tibet. The modern distinction between the two did not begin until well into the Scottish explorer George Bogle's 1774 expedition — realizing the differences between the two regions, cultures and states, his final report to the East India Company formally proposed labelling the Druk Desi's kingdom as \"Boutan\" and the Panchen Lama's as \"Tibet\". The EIC's surveyor general James Rennell first anglicized the French name as Bootan and then popularized the distinction between it and greater Tibet.\n\nLocally, Bhutan has been known by many names. One of the earliest Western records of Bhutan, the 1627 \"Relação\" of the Portuguese Jesuits Estêvão Cacella and João Cabral, records its name variously as \"Cambirasi\" (among the Koch Biharis), \"Potente\", and \"Mon\" (an endonym for southern Tibet). The first time a separate Kingdom of Bhutan appeared on a western map, it did so under its local name as \"Broukpa\". Others including \"Lho Mon\" (\"Dark Southland\"), \"Lho Tsendenjong\" (\"Southland of the Cypress\"), \"Lhomen Khazhi\" (\"Southland of the Four Approaches\") and \"Lho Menjong\" (\"Southland of the Herbs\").\n\nStone tools, weapons, elephants, and remnants of large stone structures provide evidence that Bhutan was inhabited as early as 2000 BC, although there are no existing records from that time. Historians have theorized that the state of \"Lhomon\" (literally, \"southern darkness\"), or \"Monyul\" (\"Dark Land\", a reference to the Monpa, the aboriginal peoples of Bhutan) may have existed between 500 BC and AD 600. The names \"Lhomon Tsendenjong\" (Sandalwood Country), and \"Lhomon Khashi\", or Southern Mon (country of four approaches), have been found in ancient Bhutanese and Tibetan chronicles.\nBuddhism was first introduced to Bhutan in the 7th century AD. Tibetan king Songtsän Gampo (reigned 627–649), a convert to Buddhism, who actually had extended the Tibetan Empire into Sikkim and Bhutan, ordered the construction of two Buddhist temples, at Bumthang in central Bhutan and at Kyichu (near Paro) in the Paro Valley. Buddhism was propagated in earnest in 746 under King Sindhu Rāja (\"also\" Künjom; Sendha Gyab; Chakhar Gyalpo), an exiled Indian king who had established a government in Bumthang at Chakhar Gutho Palace. \nMuch of early Bhutanese history is unclear because most of the records were destroyed when fire ravaged the ancient capital, Punakha, in 1827. By the 10th century, Bhutan's political development was heavily influenced by its religious history. Various subsects of Buddhism emerged that were patronized by the various Mongol warlords. After the decline of the Yuan dynasty in the 14th century, these subsects vied with each other for supremacy in the political and religious landscape, eventually leading to the ascendancy of the Drukpa Lineage by the 16th century.\nUntil the early 17th century, Bhutan existed as a patchwork of minor warring fiefdoms, when the area was unified by the Tibetan lama and military leader Ngawang Namgyal, who had fled religious persecution in Tibet. To defend the country against intermittent Tibetan forays, Namgyal built a network of impregnable \"dzongs\" or fortresses, and promulgated the Tsa Yig, a code of law that helped to bring local lords under centralized control. Many such \"dzong\" still exist and are active centers of religion and district administration. Portuguese Jesuits Estêvão Cacella and João Cabral were the first recorded Europeans to visit Bhutan in 1627, on their way to Tibet. They met Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyal, presented him with firearms, gunpowder and a telescope, and offered him their services in the war against Tibet, but the Zhabdrung declined the offer. After a stay of nearly eight months Cacella wrote a long letter from the Chagri Monastery reporting on his travels. This is a rare extant report of the Zhabdrung.\n\nWhen Ngawang Namgyal died in 1651, his passing was kept secret for 54 years[1651-1705]. After a period of consolidation, Bhutan lapsed into internal conflict. In the year 1711 Bhutan went to war against the Mughal Empire and its Subedars, who restored the kingdom of Koch Bihar in the south. During the chaos that followed, the Tibetans unsuccessfully attacked Bhutan in 1714.\n\nIn the 18th century, the Bhutanese invaded and occupied the kingdom of Koch Bihar. In 1772, the Maharaja of Koch Bihar appealed to the British East India Company which assisted by ousting the Bhutanese and later in attacking Bhutan itself in 1774. A peace treaty was signed in which Bhutan agreed to retreat to its pre-1730 borders. However, the peace was tenuous, and border skirmishes with the British were to continue for the next hundred years. The skirmishes eventually led to the Duar War (1864–65), a confrontation for control of the Bengal Duars. After Bhutan lost the war, the Treaty of Sinchula was signed between British India and Bhutan. As part of the war reparations, the Duars were ceded to the United Kingdom in exchange for a rent of Rs. 50,000. The treaty ended all hostilities between British India and Bhutan.\n\nDuring the 1870s, power struggles between the rival valleys of Paro and Tongsa led to civil war in Bhutan, eventually leading to the ascendancy of Ugyen Wangchuck, the \"poenlop\" (governor) of Tongsa. From his power base in central Bhutan, Ugyen Wangchuck defeated his political enemies and united the country following several civil wars and rebellions during 1882–85.\n\nIn 1907, an epochal year for the country, Ugyen Wangchuck was unanimously chosen as the hereditary king of the country by the Lhengye Tshog of leading Buddhist monks, government officials, and heads of important families, with the firm petition made by Gongzim Ugyen Dorji. John Claude White, British Political Agent in Bhutan, took photographs of the ceremony. The British government promptly recognized the new monarchy, and in 1910 Bhutan signed the Treaty of Punakha, a subsidiary alliance which gave the British control of Bhutan's foreign affairs and meant that Bhutan was treated as an Indian princely state. This had little real effect, given Bhutan's historical reticence, and also did not appear to affect Bhutan's traditional relations with Tibet. After the new Union of India gained independence from the United Kingdom on 15 August 1947, Bhutan became one of the first countries to recognize India's independence. On 8 August 1949, a treaty similar to that of 1910, in which Britain had gained power over Bhutan's foreign relations, was signed with the newly independent India.\n\nIn 1953, King Jigme Dorji Wangchuck established the country's legislature – a 130-member National Assembly – to promote a more democratic form of governance. In 1965, he set up a Royal Advisory Council, and in 1968 he formed a Cabinet. In 1971, Bhutan was admitted to the United Nations, having held observer status for three years. In July 1972, Jigme Singye Wangchuck ascended to the throne at the age of sixteen after the death of his father, Dorji Wangchuck.\n\nBhutan's political system has recently changed from an absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchy. King Jigme Singye Wangchuck transferred most of his administrative powers to the Council of Cabinet Ministers and allowing for impeachment of the King by a two-thirds majority of the National Assembly.\n\nIn 1999, the government lifted a ban on television and the Internet, making Bhutan one of the last countries to introduce television. In his speech, the King said that television was a critical step to the modernisation of Bhutan as well as a major contributor to the country's gross national happiness, but warned that the \"misuse\" of television could erode traditional Bhutanese values.\n\nA new constitution was presented in early 2005. In December 2005, King Jigme Singye Wangchuck announced that he would abdicate the throne in his son's favour in 2008. On 14 December 2006, he announced that he would be abdicating immediately. This was followed by the first national parliamentary elections in December 2007 and March 2008.\n\nOn 6 November 2008, 28-year-old Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, eldest son of King Jigme Singye Wangchuck, was crowned King.\n\nBhutan is located on the southern slopes of the eastern Himalayas, landlocked between the Tibet Autonomous Region to the north and the Indian states of Sikkim, West Bengal, Assam, and Arunachal Pradesh to the west and south. It lies between latitudes 26°N and 29°N, and longitudes 88°E and 93°E. The land consists mostly of steep and high mountains crisscrossed by a network of swift rivers, which form deep valleys before draining into the Indian plains. Elevation rises from in the southern foothills to more than . This great geographical diversity combined with equally diverse climate conditions contributes to Bhutan's outstanding range of biodiversity and ecosystems.\n\nThe northern region of Bhutan consists of an arc of Eastern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows reaching up to glaciated mountain peaks with an extremely cold climate at the highest elevations. Most peaks in the north are over above sea level; the highest point in Bhutan is Gangkhar Puensum at , which has the distinction of being the highest unclimbed mountain in the world. The lowest point, at , is in the valley of Drangme Chhu, where the river crosses the border with India. Watered by snow-fed rivers, alpine valleys in this region provide pasture for livestock, tended by a sparse population of migratory shepherds.\n\nThe Black Mountains in the central region of Bhutan form a watershed between two major river systems: the Mo Chhu and the Drangme Chhu. Peaks in the Black Mountains range between above sea level, and fast-flowing rivers have carved out deep gorges in the lower mountain areas. The forests of the central Bhutan mountains consist of Eastern Himalayan subalpine conifer forests in higher elevations and Eastern Himalayan broadleaf forests in lower elevations. Woodlands of the central region provide most of Bhutan's forest production. The Torsa, Raidak, Sankosh, and Manas are the main rivers of Bhutan, flowing through this region. Most of the population lives in the central highlands.\n\nIn the south, the Shiwalik Hills are covered with dense Himalayan subtropical broadleaf forests, alluvial lowland river valleys, and mountains up to around above sea level. The foothills descend into the subtropical Duars Plain. Most of the Duars is located in India, although a wide strip extends into Bhutan. The Bhutan Duars is divided into two parts: the northern and the southern Duars.\n\nThe northern Duars, which abut the Himalayan foothills, have rugged, sloping terrain and dry, porous soil with dense vegetation and abundant wildlife. The southern Duars has moderately fertile soil, heavy savannah grass, dense, mixed jungle, and freshwater springs. Mountain rivers, fed by either the melting snow or the monsoon rains, empty into the Brahmaputra River in India. Data released by the Ministry of Agriculture showed that the country had a forest cover of 64% as of October 2005.\n\nThe climate in Bhutan varies with elevation, from subtropical in the south to temperate in the highlands and polar-type climate, with year-round snow in the north. Bhutan experiences five distinct seasons: summer, monsoon, autumn, winter and spring. Western Bhutan has the heavier monsoon rains; southern Bhutan has hot humid summers and cool winters; central and eastern Bhutan is temperate and drier than the west with warm summers and cool winters.\n\nBhutan signed the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity on 11 June 1992, and became a party to the convention on 25 August 1995. It has subsequently produced a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, with two revisions, the most recent of which was received by the convention on 4 February 2010.\n\nBhutan has a rich primate life, with rare species such as the golden langur. A variant Assamese macaque has also been recorded, which is regarded by some authorities as a new species, \"Macaca munzala\".\n\nThe Bengal tiger, clouded leopard, hispid hare and the sloth bear live in the lush tropical lowland and hardwood forests in the south. In the temperate zone, grey langur, tiger, goral and serow are found in mixed conifer, broadleaf and pine forests. Fruit-bearing trees and bamboo provide habitat for the Himalayan black bear, red panda, squirrel, sambar, wild pig and barking deer. The alpine habitats of the great Himalayan range in the north are home to the snow leopard, blue sheep, marmot, Tibetan wolf, antelope, Himalayan musk deer and the takin, Bhutan's national animal. The endangered wild water buffalo occurs in southern Bhutan, although in small numbers.\n\nMore than 770 species of bird have been recorded in Bhutan. The globally endangered white-winged duck has been added recently to Bhutan's bird list.\n\nMore than 5,400 species of plants are found in Bhutan. Fungi form a key part of Bhutanese ecosystems, with mycorrhizal species providing forest trees with mineral nutrients necessary for growth, and with wood decay and litter decomposing species playing an important role in natural recycling.\n\nThe Eastern Himalayas have been identified as a global biodiversity hotspot and counted among the 234 globally outstanding ecoregions of the world in a comprehensive analysis of global biodiversity undertaken by WWF between 1995 and 1997.\n\nAccording to the Swiss-based International Union for Conservation of Nature, Bhutan is viewed as a model for proactive conservation initiatives. The Kingdom has received international acclaim for its commitment to the maintenance of its biodiversity.<ref name=\"IUCN-1/2012\"></ref> This is reflected in the decision to maintain at least sixty percent of the land area under forest cover, to designate more than 40% of its territory as national parks, reserves and other protected areas, and most recently to identify a further nine percent of land area as biodiversity corridors linking the protected areas. All of Bhutan's protected land is connected to one another through a vast network of biological corridors, allowing animals to migrate freely throughout the country. Environmental conservation has been placed at the core of the nation's development strategy, the middle path. It is not treated as a sector but rather as a set of concerns that must be mainstreamed in Bhutan's overall approach to development planning and to be buttressed by the force of law. The country's constitution mentions environment standards in multiple sections.\n\nAlthough Bhutan's natural heritage is still largely intact, the government has said that it cannot be taken for granted and that conservation of the natural environment must be considered one of the challenges that will need to be addressed in the years ahead. Nearly 56.3% of all Bhutanese are involved with agriculture, forestry or conservation. The government aims to promote conservation as part of its plan to target Gross National Happiness. It currently has net zero greenhouse gas emissions because the small amount of pollution it creates is absorbed by the forests that cover most of the country. While the entire country collectively produces 2.2 million tons of carbon dioxide a year, the immense forest covering 72% of the country acts as a carbon sink, absorbing more than four million tons of carbon dioxide every year.\n\nBhutan has a number of progressive environmental policies that have caused the head of the UNFCCC to call it an \"inspiration and role model for the world on how economies and different countries can address climate change while at the same time improving the life of the citizen.\" For example, electric cars have been pushed in the country and make up a tenth of all cars. Because the country gets most of its energy from hydrolelectric power, it does not emit significant greenhouse gases for energy production.\n\nPressures on the natural environment are already evident and will be fuelled by a complex array of forces. They include population pressures, agricultural modernisation, poaching, hydro-power development, mineral extraction, industrialisation, urbanisation, sewage and waste disposal, tourism, competition for available land, road construction and the provision of other physical infrastructure associated with social and economic development.\n\nIn practice, the overlap of these extensive protected lands with populated areas has led to mutual habitat encroachment. Protected wildlife has entered agricultural areas, trampling crops and killing livestock. In response, Bhutan has implemented an insurance scheme, begun constructing solar powered alarm fences, watch towers, and search lights, and has provided fodder and salt licks outside human settlement areas to encourage animals to stay away.\n\nThe huge market value of the \"Ophiocordyceps sinensis\" fungus crop collected from the wild has also resulted in unsustainable exploitation which is proving very difficult to regulate.\n\nBhutan is a constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary form of government. The reigning monarch is Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck. The current Prime Minister of Bhutan is Tshering Tobgay, leader of the People's Democratic Party.\n\nThe \"Druk Gyalpo\" (\"Dragon King\") is the head of state. The political system grants universal suffrage. It consists of the National Council, an upper house with 25 elected members; and the National Assembly with 47 elected lawmakers from political parties.\n\nExecutive power is exercised by the Council of Ministers led by the prime minister. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly. Judicial power is vested in the courts of Bhutan. The legal system originates from the semi-theocratic Tsa Yig code and has been influenced by English common law during the 20th century. The chief justice is the administrative head of the judiciary.\n\nThe first general elections for the National Assembly were held on 24 March 2008. The chief contestants were the Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party (DPT) led by Jigme Thinley and the People's Democratic Party (PDP) led by Sangay Ngedup. The DPT won the elections by taking 45 out of 47 seats. Jigme Thinley served as Prime Minister from 2008 to 2013.\n\nThe People's Democratic Party came to power in the 2013 elections. It won 32 seats with 54.88% of the vote. PDP leader Tshering Tobgay served as Prime Minister from 2013 to 2018.\n\nDruk Nyamrup Tshogpa won largest number of seats in the 2018 National Assembly Election, bringing Lotay Tshering to priemiership and Druk Nyamrup Tshogpa into government for the first time.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Bhutan's principal foreign relations were with British India and Tibet. The government of British India managed relations with the kingdom from the Bhutan House in Kalimpong. Fearful of Chinese communist expansion, Bhutan signed a friendship treaty with the newly independent Republic of India in 1949. Its concerns were exacerbated after the Chinese takeover of Tibet in 1959. Relations with Nepal remained strained due to Bhutanese refugees. Bhutan joined the United Nations in 1971. It was the first country to recognize Bangladesh's independence in 1971. It became a founding member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) in 1985. The country is a member of 150 international organizations, including the Bay of Bengal Initiative, BBIN, World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Group of 77.\n\nBhutan maintains strong economic, strategic, and military relations with neighbouring India. In 2007, Bhutan and India revised their friendship treaty which clarified Bhutan's full control of its foreign relations, including its border with Tibet. Bhutan has very warm relations with Japan, which provides significant development assistance. The Bhutanese royals were hosted by the Japanese imperial family during a state visit in 2011. Japan is also helping Bhutan cope with glacial floods through developing an early warning system.\n\nBhutan enjoys strong political and diplomatic relations with Bangladesh. The Bhutanese king was the guest of honour during celebrations for Bangladesh's 40th anniversary of independence. A 2014 joint statement by the prime ministers of both countries announced cooperation in areas of hydropower, river management and climate change mitigation.\n\nBhutan has diplomatic relations with 52 countries and the European Union and has missions in India, Bangladesh, Thailand and Kuwait. It has two UN missions, one in New York and one in Geneva. Only India and Bangladesh have residential embassies in Bhutan, while Thailand has a consulate office in Bhutan. Other countries maintain informal diplomatic contact via their embassies in New Delhi and Dhaka.\nBy a long-standing agreement, Indian and Bhutanese citizens may travel to each other's countries without the need for a passport or visa but only their national identity cards. Bhutanese citizens may also work in India without legal restriction. Bhutan does not have formal diplomatic ties with its northern neighbour, China, although exchanges of visits at various levels between the two have significantly increased in recent times. The first bilateral agreement between China and Bhutan was signed in 1998 and Bhutan has also set up honorary consulates in the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau. Bhutan's border with China is largely not demarcated and thus disputed in some places. Approximately 269 square kilometers remain under discussion between China and Bhutan.\n\nOn 13 November 2005, Chinese soldiers crossed into the disputed territories between China and Bhutan, and began building roads and bridges. Bhutanese Foreign Minister Khandu Wangchuk took up the matter with Chinese authorities after the issue was raised in the Bhutanese parliament. In response, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang of the People's Republic of China has said that the border remains in dispute and that the two sides are continuing to work for a peaceful and cordial resolution of the dispute. An Indian intelligence officer has said that a Chinese delegation in Bhutan told the Bhutanese that they were \"overreacting\". The Bhutanese newspaper \"Kuensel\" has said that China might use the roads to further Chinese claims along the border.\n\nIn February 2007 the Indo-Bhutan Friendship Treaty was substantially revised. Whereas the Treaty of 1949, Article 2 stated: \"The Government of India undertakes to exercise no interference in the internal administration of Bhutan. On its part the Government of Bhutan agrees to be guided by the advice of the Government of India in regard to its external relations,\" the revised treaty now states \"In keeping with the abiding ties of close friendship and cooperation between Bhutan and India, the Government of the Kingdom of Bhutan and the Government of the Republic of India shall cooperate closely with each other on issues relating to their national interests. Neither government shall allow the use of its territory for activities harmful to the national security and interest of the other.\" The revised treaty also includes this preamble: \"Reaffirming their respect for each other's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity\", an element that was absent in the earlier version. The Indo-Bhutan Friendship Treaty of 2007 clarifies Bhutan's status as an independent and sovereign nation.\n\nBhutan maintains formal diplomatic relations with several Asian and European nations, Canada, and Brazil. Other countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, have no formal diplomatic relations with Bhutan, but maintain informal contact through their respective embassies in New Delhi and Bhutanese honorary consulate in Washington DC. The United Kingdom has an honorary consul resident in Thimphu.\n\nThe Royal Bhutan Army is Bhutan's military service. It includes the royal bodyguard and the Royal Bhutan Police. Membership is voluntary and the minimum age for recruitment is 18. The standing army numbers about 16,000 and is trained by the Indian Army. It has an annual budget of about US$13.7 million (1.8 percent of GDP). Being a landlocked country, Bhutan has no navy. It also has no air force or army aviation corps. The Army relies on the Eastern Air Command of the Indian Air Force for air assistance.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal in Bhutan. The Penal Code (Articles 213 & 214) states that same-sex sexual acts (regardless of whether they were consensual or done in private) are punishable by a prison sentence of between one month to less than one year.\n\nIn the 1990s, Bhutan expelled or forced to leave most of its ethnic Lhotshampa population, one-fifth of the country's entire population, demanding conformity in religion, dress, and language. Lhotshampas were arrested and expelled from the country and their property was expropriated.\n\nA harassment campaign escalating in the early 1990s ensued, and afterwards Bhutanese security forces began expelling people. According to the UNHCR, more than 107,000 Bhutanese refugees living in seven camps in eastern Nepal have been documented . Whether all inhabitants are in fact refugees is questionable because the UNHCR did not check the initial inhabitants of the refugee camps adequately. The facilities inside the camp, which were reportedly better than in the surroundings, provided a strong motivation for Nepalese to seek admittance. After many years in refugee camps, many inhabitants are now moving to host nations such as Canada, Norway, the UK, Australia, and the US as refugees. The US has admitted 60,773 refugees from fiscal years 2008 through 2012.\n\nThe Nepalese government does not permit citizenship for Bhutanese refugees, so most of them have become stateless. Careful scrutiny has been used to prevent their relatives from getting ID cards and voting rights. Bhutan considers the political parties of these refugees illegal and terrorist in nature. Human rights groups initially claimed the government interfered with individual rights by requiring all citizens, including ethnic minority members, to wear the traditional dress of the ethnic majority in public places. The government strictly enforced the law in Buddhist religious buildings, government offices, schools, official functions, and public ceremonies.\n\nBhutan is divided into twenty \"Dzongkhag\" (districts), administered by a body called the Dzongkhag Tshogdu. In certain \"thromdes\" (urban municipalities), a further municipal administration is directly subordinate to the Dzongkhag administration. In the vast majority of constituencies, rural \"geog\" (village blocks) are administered by bodies called the Geog Tshogde.\n\nThromdes (municipalities) elect Thrompons to lead administration, who in turn represent the Thromde in the Dzongkhag Tshogdu. Likewise, \"geog\" elect headmen called \"gup\"s, vice-headmen called \"mangmis\", who also sit on the Dzongkhag Tshogdu, as well as other members of the Geog Tshogde. The basis of electoral constituencies in Bhutan is the \"chiwog\", a subdivision of gewogs delineated by the Election Commission.\n\nBhutan's currency is the ngultrum, whose value is fixed to the Indian rupee. The rupee is also accepted as legal tender in the country.\nThough Bhutan's economy is one of the world's smallest, it has grown rapidly in recent years, by eight percent in 2005 and 14 percent in 2006. In 2007, Bhutan had the second-fastest-growing economy in the world, with an annual economic growth rate of 22.4 percent. This was mainly due to the commissioning of the gigantic Tala Hydroelectric Power Station. , Bhutan's per capita income was US$2,420.\n\nBhutan's economy is based on agriculture, forestry, tourism and the sale of hydroelectric power to India. Agriculture provides the main livelihood for 55.4 percent of the population. Agrarian practices consist largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Handicrafts, particularly weaving and the manufacture of religious art for home altars, are a small cottage industry. A landscape that varies from hilly to ruggedly mountainous has made the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult and expensive.\n\nThis, and a lack of access to the sea, has meant that Bhutan has not been able to benefit from significant trading of its produce. Bhutan has no railways, though Indian Railways plans to link southern Bhutan to its vast network under an agreement signed in January 2005. Bhutan and India signed a 'free trade' accord in 2008, which additionally allowed Bhutanese imports and exports from third markets to transit India without tariffs. Bhutan had trade relations with the Tibet region until 1960, when it closed its border with China after an influx of refugees.\n\nThe industrial sector is in a nascent stage, and though most production comes from cottage industry, larger industries are being encouraged and some industries such as cement, steel, and ferroalloy have been set up. Most development projects, such as road construction, rely on Indian contract labour. Agricultural produce includes rice, chilies, dairy (some yak, mostly cow) products, buckwheat, barley, root crops, apples, and citrus and maize at lower elevations. Industries include cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic beverages and calcium carbide.\n\nBhutan has seen recent growth in the technology sector, in areas such as green tech and consumer Internet/e-commerce. In May 2012, Thimphu TechPark launched in the capital and incubates start-ups via the Bhutan Innovation and Technology Centre (BITC).\n\nIncomes of over Nu 100,000 per annum are taxed, but very few wage and salary earners qualify. Bhutan's inflation rate was estimated at about three percent in 2003. Bhutan has a Gross Domestic Product of around US$5.855 billion (adjusted to purchasing power parity), making it the 158th-largest economy in the world. Per capita income (PPP) is around $7,641, ranked 144th. Government revenues total $407.1 million, though expenditures amount to $614 million. 25 percent of the budget expenditure, however, is financed by India's Ministry of External Affairs.\n\nBhutan's exports, principally electricity, cardamom, gypsum, timber, handicrafts, cement, fruit, precious stones and spices, total €128 million (2000 est.). Imports, however, amount to €164 million, leading to a trade deficit. Main items imported include fuel and lubricants, grain, machinery, vehicles, fabrics and rice. Bhutan's main export partner is India, accounting for 58.6 percent of its export goods. Hong Kong (30.1 percent) and Bangladesh (7.3 percent) are the other two top export partners. As its border with Tibet is closed, trade between Bhutan and China is now almost non-existent. Bhutan's import partners include India (74.5 percent), Japan (7.4 percent) and Sweden (3.2 percent).\n\nThe share of the agricultural sector in GDP declined from approximately 55% in 1985 to 33% in 2003. In 2013 the government announced the aspiration that Bhutan will become the first country in the world with 100 percent organic farming. Bhutanese red rice is the country's most widely known agricultural export, enjoying a market in North America and Europe. Bangladesh is the largest market of Bhutanese apples and oranges.\n\nFishing in Bhutan is mainly centered on trout and carp.\n\nThe industrial sector accounts of 22% of the economy. The key manufacturing sectors in Bhutan include production of ferroalloy, cement, metal poles, iron and nonalloy steel products, processed graphite, copper conductors, alcoholic and carbonated beverages, processed fruits, carpets, wood products and furniture.\n\nBhutan has deposits of numerous minerals. Commercial production includes coal, dolomite, gypsum, and limestone. The country has proven reserves of beryl, copper, graphite, lead, mica, pyrite, tin, tungsten, and zinc. However, the country remains as an environmental frontier as it prefers to conserve the environment, rather than to exploit and destroy it for money.\n\nBhutan's largest export is hydroelectricity. , it generates 5,000 MW of hydropower from Himalayan river valleys. The country has a potential to generate 30,000 MW of hydropower. Power is supplied to various states in India. Future projects are being planned with Bangladesh. Hydropower has been the primary focus for the country's five-year plans. , the Tala Hydroelectric Power Station is its largest power plant, with an installed capacity of 1,020 MW. It has received assistance from India, Austria and the Asian Development Bank in developing hydroelectric projects.\nBesides Hydropower, it is also endowed with significant renewable energy resources such as solar, wind and bioenergy. Technically viable solar energy generation capacity is around 12000 MW and wind around 760 MW. More than 70% of its land is under forest cover, which is an immense source of bioenergy in the country.\n\nThe two main financial institutions are the Bank of Bhutan, which is based in the southern city of Phuntsholing and is the retail wing of the Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan, and the Bhutan National Bank, which is based in Thimphu. The Royal Securities Exchange of Bhutan is the main stock exchange.\n\nThe SAARC Development Fund is based in Thimphu.\n\nIn 2014, Bhutan welcomed 133,480 foreign visitors. Seeking to become a high value destination, it imposes a daily fee of US$250 on tourists that covers touring and hotel accommodation. The industry employs 21,000 people and accounts for 1.8% of GDP.\n\nThe country currently has no UNESCO World Heritage Sites, but it has eight declared tentative sites for UNESCO inclusion since 2012. These sites include Ancient Ruin of Drukgyel Dzong, Bumdeling Wildlife Sanctuary, Dzongs: the centre of temporal and religious authorities (Punakha Dzong, Wangdue Phodrang Dzong, Paro Dzong, Trongsa Dzong and Dagana Dzong), Jigme Dorji National Park (JDNP), Royal Manas National Park (RMNP), Sacred Sites associated with Phajo Drugom Zhigpo and his descendants, Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary (SWS), and Tamzhing Monastery. Bhutan also has numerous tourist sites that are not included in its UNESCO tentative list. Bhutan has one element, the \"Mask dance of the drums from Drametse\", registered in the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage List.\n\nBhutan is also well known for mountain adventure trekking and hiking. Jhomolhari Base Camp Trek, Snowman Trek, and Masagang trek are some of the popular treks in Bhutan.\n\nParo Airport is the only international airport in Bhutan. Yongphulla Airport in Trashigang is a small domestic airport that underwent upgrades through 2010. Yongphulla Airport was scheduled for completion in January 2010 but , the airport remains closed due to ongoing runway repair. National carrier Druk Air operates flights between Paro Airport and airports in Jakar (Bumthang Dzongkhag) and Gelephu (Sarpang Dzongkhag) on a weekly basis.\n\nThe Lateral Road is Bhutan's primary east–west corridor, connecting Phuentsholing in the southwest to Trashigang in the east. In between, the Lateral Road runs directly through Wangdue Phodrang, Trongsa and other population centres. The Lateral Road also has spurs connecting to the capital Thimphu and other major population centres such as Paro and Punakha. As with other roads in Bhutan, the Lateral Road presents serious safety concerns due to pavement conditions, sheer drops, hairpin turns, weather and landslides.\n\nSince 2014, road widening has been a priority across Bhutan, in particular for the North-East-West highway from Trashigang to Dochula. The widening project is expected to be completed by the end of 2017 and will make road travel across the country substantially faster and more efficient. In addition, it is projected that the improved road conditions will encourage more tourism in the more inaccessible eastern region of Bhutan. Currently, the road conditions appear to be deterring tourists from visiting Bhutan due to the increased instances of road blocks, landslides and dust disruption caused by the widening project.\n\nBhutan has no railways, though it has entered into an agreement with India to link southern Bhutan to India's vast network by constructing an -long broad gauge rail link between Hashimara in West Bengal and Toribari in Bhutan. The construction of the railway via Satali, Bharna Bari and Dalsingpara by Indian railways will be funded by India. Bhutan's nearest railway station is Hasimara.\n\nBhutan had a population of people in . Bhutan has a median age of 24.8 years. There are 1,070 males to every 1,000 females. The literacy rate in Bhutan is 59.5 percent.\n\nBhutanese people primarily consist of the Ngalops and Sharchops, called the Western Bhutanese and Eastern Bhutanese respectively. Although the Sharchops are slightly larger in demographic size, the Ngalops dominate the political sphere, as the King and the political elite belong to this group. The Ngalops primarily consist of Bhutanese living in the western part of the country. Their culture is closely related to that of Tibet. Much the same could be said of the Sharchops, the largest group, who traditionally follow the Nyingmapa rather than the official Drukpa Kagyu form of Tibetan Buddhism. In modern times, with improved transportation infrastructure, there has been much intermarriage between these groups.\n\nThe Lhotshampa, meaning \"southerner Bhutanese\", are a heterogeneous group of mostly Nepalese ancestry. It was claimed that they constituted 45% of the population in the 1988 census, and include migrants from as early as the 1890s to as recent as the 1980s, who have fought a bitter war with Bhutan over rights to abode, language, and dress. In the early 1970s, intermarriage between the Lhotshampas Bhutanese and mainstream Bhutanese society was encouraged by the government, but after the late 1980s, the Bhutanese government forced about 108,000 Lhotshampas from their homes, seized their land, and expelled them to refugee camps. Consequently, there has been mass emigration from Bhutan (both forced and voluntary) and ethnic cleansing in Bhutan resulting in hundreds of thousands of people left stateless in refugee camps of Nepal. Currently, Lhotsampa are estimated to make up approximately 20% of Bhutan's population.\n\nIt is estimated that between two-thirds and three-quarters of the Bhutanese population follow Vajrayana Buddhism, which is also the state religion. About one-quarter to one-third are followers of Hinduism. Other religions account for less than 1% of the population. The current legal framework, in principle guarantees freedom of religion; proselytism, however, is forbidden by a royal government decision and by judicial interpretation of the Constitution.\n\nBuddhism was introduced to Bhutan in the 7th century AD. Tibetan king Songtsän Gampo (reigned 627–649), a convert to Buddhism, ordered the construction of two Buddhist temples, at Bumthang in central Bhutan and at Kyichu Lhakhang (near Paro) in the Paro Valley.\n\nThe national language is Bhutanese (Dzongkha), one of 53 languages in the Tibetan language family. The script, here called \"Chhokey\" (\"Dharma language\"), is identical to classical Tibetan. In the schools English is the medium of instruction and Dzongkha is taught as the national language. \"Ethnologue\" lists 24 languages currently spoken in Bhutan, all of them in the Tibeto-Burman family, except Nepali, an Indo-Aryan language.\n\nUntil the 1980s, the government sponsored the teaching of Nepali in schools in southern Bhutan. With the adoption of \"Driglam Namzhag\" and its expansion into the idea of strengthening the role of Dzongkha, Nepali was dropped from the curriculum. The languages of Bhutan are still not well characterized, and several have yet to be recorded in an in-depth academic grammar. Before the 1980s, the Lhotshampa (Nepali-speaking community), mainly based in southern Bhutan, constituted approximately 30% of the population. However, after a purge of Lhotshaampas from 1990–1992 this number might not accurately reflect the current population.\n\nDzongkha is partially intelligible with Sikkimese and spoken natively by 25% of the population. Tshangla, the language of the Sharchop and the principal pre-Tibetan language of Bhutan, is spoken by a greater number of people. It is not easily classified and may constitute an independent branch of Tibeto-Burman. Nepali speakers constituted some 40% of the population . The larger minority languages are Dzala (11%), Limbu (10%), Kheng (8%), and Rai (8%). There are no reliable sources for the ethnic or linguistic composition of Bhutan, so these numbers do not add up to 100%.\n\nBhutan has a life expectancy of 70.2 years (69.9 for males and 70.5 for females) according to the latest data for the year 2016 from the World Bank.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nBhutan has one decentralised university with eleven constituent colleges spread across the kingdom, the Royal University of Bhutan. The first five-year plan provided for a central education authority—in the form of a director of education appointed in 1961—and an organised, modern school system with free and universal primary education.\n\nEducation programmes were given a boost in 1990 when the Asian Development Bank (see Glossary) granted a US$7.13 million loan for staff training and development, specialist services, equipment and furniture purchases, salaries and other recurrent costs, and facility rehabilitation and construction at Royal Bhutan Polytechnic.\n\nBhutan has a rich and unique cultural heritage that has largely remained intact because of its isolation from the rest of the world until the mid-20th century. One of the main attractions for tourists is the country's culture and traditions. Bhutanese tradition is deeply steeped in its Buddhist heritage. Hinduism is the second most dominant religion in Bhutan, being most prevalent in the southern regions. The government is increasingly making efforts to preserve and sustain the current culture and traditions of the country. Because of its largely unspoiled natural environment and cultural heritage, Bhutan has been referred to as \"The Last Shangri-la\".\n\nWhile Bhutanese citizens are free to travel abroad, Bhutan is viewed as inaccessible by many foreigners. Another reason for it being an unpopular destination is the cost, which is high for tourists on tighter budgets. Entry is free for citizens of India, Bangladesh, and the Maldives, but all other foreigners are required to sign up with a Bhutanese tour operator and pay around US$250 per day that they stay in the country, though this fee covers most travel, lodging and meal expenses. Bhutan received 37,482 visitor arrivals in 2011, of which 25% were for meetings, incentives, conferencing, and exhibitions.\n\nBhutan is the first nation in the world to ban smoking. It has been illegal to smoke in public or sell tobacco, according to Tobacco Control Act of Bhutan 2010. Violators are fined the equivalent of $232—more than two months' salary in Bhutan.\n\nThe national dress for Bhutanese men is the \"gho\", a knee-length robe tied at the waist by a cloth belt known as the \"kera\". Women wear an ankle-length dress, the \"kira\", which is clipped at the shoulders with two identical brooches called the \"koma\" and tied at the waist with kera. An accompaniment to the kira is a long-sleeved blouse, the \"wonju\" which is worn underneath the kira. A long-sleeved jacket-like garment, the \"toego\" is worn over the kira. The sleeves of the wonju and the tego are folded together at the cuffs, inside out.\n\nSocial status and class determine the texture, colours, and decorations that embellish the garments. Differently coloured scarves, known as \"rachu\" for women (red is the most common colour) and \"kabney\" for men, are important indicators of social standing, as Bhutan has traditionally been a feudal society. Jewellery is mostly worn by women, especially during religious festivals (tsechus) and public gatherings. To strengthen Bhutan's identity as an independent country, Bhutanese law requires all Bhutanese government employees to wear the national dress at work and all citizens to wear the national dress while visiting schools and other government offices though many citizens, particularly adults, choose to wear the customary dress as formal attire.\n\nBhutanese architecture remains distinctively traditional, employing rammed earth and wattle and daub construction methods, stone masonry, and intricate woodwork around windows and roofs. Traditional architecture uses no nails or iron bars in construction. Characteristic of the region is a type of castle fortress known as the dzong. Since ancient times, the dzongs have served as the religious and secular administration centres for their respective districts. The University of Texas at El Paso in the United States has adopted Bhutanese architecture for its buildings on campus, as have the nearby Hilton Garden Inn and other buildings in the city of El Paso.\n\nBhutan has numerous public holidays, most of which centre around traditional, seasonal, secular and religious festivals. They include the winter solstice (around 1 January, depending on the lunar calendar), Lunar New Year (February or March), the King's birthday and the anniversary of his coronation, the official end of monsoon season (22 September), National Day (17 December), and various Buddhist and Hindu celebrations.\n\nMasked dances and dance dramas are common traditional features at festivals, usually accompanied by traditional music. Energetic dancers, wearing colorful wooden or composition face masks and stylized costumes, depict heroes, demons, dæmons, death heads, animals, gods, and caricatures of common people. The dancers enjoy royal patronage, and preserve ancient folk and religious customs and perpetuate the ancient lore and art of mask-making.\n\nThe music of Bhutan can generally be divided into traditional and modern varieties; traditional music comprises religious and folk genres, the latter including \"zhungdra\" and \"boedra\". The modern \"rigsar\" is played on a mix of traditional instruments and electronic keyboards, and dates back to the early 1990s; it shows the influence of Indian popular music, a hybrid form of traditional and Western popular influences.\n\nIn Bhutanese families, inheritance generally passes matrilineally through the female rather than the male line. Daughters will inherit their parents' house. A man is expected to make his own way in the world and often moves to his wife's home. Love marriages are common in urban areas, but the tradition of arranged marriages among acquainted families is still prevalent in the rural areas. Although uncommon, polygamy is accepted, often being a device to keep property in a contained family unit rather than dispersing it. The previous king, Jigme Singye Wangchuck, who abdicated in 2006, had four queens, all of whom are sisters. The current king, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, wed Jetsun Pema, 21, a commoner and daughter of a pilot, on 13 October 2011.\n\nRice (red rice), buckwheat, and increasingly maize, are the staples of Bhutanese cuisine. The local diet also includes pork, beef, yak meat, chicken, and lamb. Soups and stews of meat and dried vegetables spiced with chilies and cheese are prepared. \"Ema datshi\", made very spicy with cheese and chilies, might be called the national dish for its ubiquity and the pride that Bhutanese have for it. Dairy foods, particularly butter and cheese from yaks and cows, are also popular, and indeed almost all milk is turned into butter and cheese. Popular beverages include butter tea, black tea, locally brewed \"ara\" (rice wine), and beer. Bhutan is the first country in the world to have banned the sale of tobacco under its Tobacco Act of 2010.\n\nBhutan's national and most popular sport is archery. Competitions are held regularly in most villages. It differs from Olympic standards in technical details such as the placement of the targets and atmosphere. Two targets are placed over 100 meters apart, and teams shoot from one end of the field to the other. Each member of the team shoots two arrows per round. Traditional Bhutanese archery is a social event, and competitions are organized between villages, towns, and amateur teams. There is usually plenty of food and drink complete with singing and dancing. Attempts to distract an opponent include standing around the target and making fun of the shooter's ability. Darts (\"khuru\") is an equally popular outdoor team sport, in which heavy wooden darts pointed with a 10 cm nail are thrown at a paperback-sized target 10 to 20 meters away.\n\nAnother traditional sport is the \"Digor\", which resembles the shot put and horseshoe throwing.\n\nAnother popular sport is basketball. In 2002, Bhutan's national football team played Montserrat, in what was billed as The Other Final; the match took place on the same day Brazil played Germany in the World Cup final, but at the time Bhutan and Montserrat were the world's two lowest ranked teams. The match was held in Thimphu's Changlimithang National Stadium, and Bhutan won 4–0. A documentary of the match was made by the Dutch filmmaker Johan Kramer. Bhutan won its first two FIFA World Cup Qualifying matches, beating Sri Lanka 1–0 in Sri Lanka and 2–1 in Bhutan, taking the aggregate at 3–1. Cricket has also gained popularity in Bhutan, particularly since the introduction of television channels from India. The Bhutan national cricket team is one of the most successful affiliate nations in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20696074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20696074", "title": "British Library, MS Egerton 88", "text": "British Library, MS Egerton 88\n\nMS Egerton 88 is a late sixteenth-century Irish manuscript, now housed in the British Library Egerton Collection, London. It is the work of members of the O'Davorens (Irish: Ó Duibhdábhoireann), a distinguished family of lawyers in Corcomroe, Co. Clare, and was compiled between 1564 and 1569 under the supervision of Domhnall Ó Duibhdábhoireann.\n\nThe document is an important collection of medieval Irish legal texts, literature, grammatical works and legal glossaries. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6147967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6147967", "title": "CKMM-FM", "text": "CKMM-FM\n\nCKMM-FM is a CHR/Top 40-formatted radio station owned by Bell Media, branded as 103.1 Virgin Radio. The station broadcasts from 1445 Pembina Highway, Winnipeg, Manitoba with sister stations 99.9 BOB FM and TSN Radio 1290, while its transmitter is located at Duff Roblin Provincial Park.\n\nCKMM-FM primarily competes with Energy 106.\n\nOn March 13, 1979, Armadale Communications was awarded a license for a new FM station in Winnipeg, to broadcast on 103.1 MHz. On February 14, 1980, the station signed on air as CKWG-FM, with a near freeform format. In 1989, the station flipped to adult contemporary. The following year, the station was sold to Western World Communications. The call signs have changed quite a bit over the years, from CHZZ-FM (Z103) to CKLU-FM (103 U FM, then briefly Mix 103) and then finally to CKMM-FM. In 1996, the station switched to a country music format with the on-air name Star 103. When Star 103 and QX 104 came under the ownership of Craig Broadcasting, the format of Star 103 was changed to avoid redundancy. CKMM re-launched with a CHR/Top 40 format as HOT 103 on New Year's Eve, 1997. CKMM and CFQX became properties of Standard Radio in 2002.\n\nOn October 29, 2007, Astral Media took over CKMM as a result of a buyout of Standard Radio. As part of Astral's merger with Bell Media on June 27, 2013, CKMM is now owned by Bell Media. Sister station CFQX and Bell's CHIQ were sold to the Jim Pattison Group in order to meet ownership limits.\n\nOn August 31, 2012, CKMM rebranded as 103-1 Virgin Radio, like other Astral Media CHR stations, while keeping the same music format and staff.\n\n"}
{"id": "29761619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29761619", "title": "Cape Verdean parliamentary election, 2011", "text": "Cape Verdean parliamentary election, 2011\n\nParliamentary elections were held Cape Verde on 6 February 2011. The result was a victory for the ruling African Party for the Independence of Cape Verde (PAICV), led by Prime Minister Jose Maria Neves, which won 38 of the 72 seats in the National Assembly.\n\nAlthough technical problems prevented a prompt announcement of official results, it quickly became clear that PAICV had won a parliamentary majority, and Veiga conceded defeat on 7 February 2011. The opposition's immediate acceptance of defeat, prior to an official announcement, was viewed as a sign of the strength of democracy in Cape Verde.\n"}
{"id": "29248131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29248131", "title": "Chief Justice of Albania", "text": "Chief Justice of Albania\n\nThe Chief Justice of Albania, officially known as the President of the Supreme Court of Albania () is the most senior judge of the Supreme Court of Albania, who presides over every activity of the institution: he approves the internal regulations and the structure of the court, issues orders and directives of an administrative nature, supervises the support function, presides the bench in the United College, appoints the Members of the court into distinct Colleges, employs and dismisses Judicial Assistants as well as the court's administrative staff and oversees the management of the annual budget of the court.\n\nThe incumbent President of the Supreme Court is Justice Xhezair Zaganjori, who was appointed to this position by the President on 24 April 2013, after a long and distinguished legal carrier, having last served as a member of the Constitutional Court of Albania. \n\n"}
{"id": "40172466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40172466", "title": "Chinese expedition to Tibet (1910)", "text": "Chinese expedition to Tibet (1910)\n\nThe 1910 Chinese expedition to Tibet or the Chinese invasion of Tibet in 1910 was a military campaign of the Qing dynasty to establish direct rule in Tibet in early 1910. The expedition occupied Lhasa on February 12 and officially deposed the 13th Dalai Lama on the 25th. \n\nQing rule of Tibet was established in the early 18th century after the 1720 Chinese expedition to Tibet, but it was essentially a protectorate rather than a direct rule. The actual rule also waned considerably with the gradual weakening of the Qing dynasty in the 19th century. \n\nAfter the British expedition to Tibet in 1904 and the Sino-British treaty in 1906, the Qing decided to establish direct rule over Tibet and thus sent such an expedition in 1910. As Professor Dawa Norbu stated, \"The British military expedition and subsequent convention made the Chinese realize that their power in Tibet had disappeared. So, in 1910 China invaded Tibet, and the Dalai Lama fled to India.\"\n\nIn the late winter of 1910, the Manchu government in Beijing was furious with the 13th Dalai Lama. His government, having witnessed the dissolution of its domains in Khams by Qing administrators, and fearing that the amban in Lhasa was going to eliminate its temporal authority, cut this imperial officer off from the sustenance that the Tibet government had guaranteed him in a prior agreement with the Qing court. When a relief column arrived in Lhasa from Sichuan to break the amban out of his isolation, the Dalai Lama fled for British India.\n\nHowever, the direct rule over Tibet proved short-lived: after the outbreak of the Xinhai Revolution and the Xinhai Lhasa turmoil in 1911–1912, Qing rule essentially ended in Lhasa and other parts of Tibet. All Qing forces left Tibet by the end of 1912.\n\n"}
{"id": "36836911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36836911", "title": "Court Treatt expedition", "text": "Court Treatt expedition\n\nThe Court Treatt expedition was the first successful trip by \"road\" from Cape Town to Cairo. It took place in 1924 using two Crossley cars \n, and was led by Major Court Treatt. The party also included his wife Stella Court Treatt. As traffical roads generally did not exist at that time, the journey was necessarily slow. Part of the purpose of the trip was to map out a route.\n"}
{"id": "37632321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37632321", "title": "Dacian fortress of Sub Cetate", "text": "Dacian fortress of Sub Cetate\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n"}
{"id": "4606165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4606165", "title": "Danish Union of Librarians", "text": "Danish Union of Librarians\n\nThe Danish Union of Librarians (BF) is a trade union in Denmark. It has a membership of 5500, and is affiliated with the Danish Confederation of Professional Associations.\n"}
{"id": "11061661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11061661", "title": "Destruction of Psara", "text": "Destruction of Psara\n\nThe Destruction of Psara or Holocaust of Psara was an event in which the Ottomans destroyed the civilian population of the Greek island of Psara on July 5, 1824. According to George Finlay, the entire population of the island Psara before the massacre was about 7,000.\n"}
{"id": "6429746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6429746", "title": "Dubthaigh", "text": "Dubthaigh\n\nDubthaigh or O'Dubthaigh is the name of an Irish Tribe providing the origins of the name Duffy or Duffie. The name means either \"Dark Man\" or \"the one from the dark House\", and embraces many of the famous clerics linked to Cong, many of them called Saint Dubtach.\n\n"}
{"id": "12408091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12408091", "title": "Eesti mõttelugu", "text": "Eesti mõttelugu\n\nEesti mõttelugu (Estonian for \"Story of Estonian thought\") is a book series of essay collections by Estonian historical thinkers, published by Ilmamaa since 1994. The editor-in-chief and publisher is Estonian poet Hando Runnel. According to \"Postimees\", Estonia's highest-circulation newspaper, the series has become an institution. As of 2012, 108 volumes had been published. By April 2018, the number of volumes had risen to 139. In 2018, Estonian Academy of Sciences marked its 80th birthday with a conference bearing the same name, focused on the book series, its importance and influence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1469116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1469116", "title": "Ernmas", "text": "Ernmas\n\nErnmas is an Irish mother goddess, mentioned in \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\" and \"Cath Maige Tuired\" as one of the Tuatha Dé Danann. Her daughters include the trinity of eponymous Irish goddesses Ériu, Banba and Fódla, the trinity of war goddesses the Badb, Macha and the Mórrígan (who is also named Anann), and also a trinity of sons, Glonn, Gnim, and Coscar.\nHer other sons are Fiacha and Ollom. Ernmas was killed during the first battle of Mag Tuired.\n"}
{"id": "15933133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15933133", "title": "Eurobandið", "text": "Eurobandið\n\nEurobandið (Euroband) is the name of Icelandic technopop and dance duo Friðrik Ómar and Regína Ósk, who together represented Iceland at the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 in Belgrade, Serbia. They performed the song \"This Is My Life\" in the second semi-final, on 22 May 2008 which won them a place in the final on May 24. They finished 14th out of 25 in the final with 64 points.\n\nThey have both, separately, established themselves as popular artists in Iceland and have tried to represent Iceland in Eurovision before as separate acts, but were unsuccessful. It was not until they joined that Iceland chose them as their representative in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008.\n"}
{"id": "33946121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33946121", "title": "FAUR", "text": "FAUR\n\nFAUR S.A. is an industrial engineering and manufacturing company based in Bucharest, Romania.\n\nFAUR was founded by Nicolae Malaxa in 1921 under the name MALAXA. Main activities were the repairing of rolling stock, manufacturing steam locomotives, diesel locomotives, car-engines and passenger coaches, diesel engines, brake equipment, and special alloy steels. By the end of the 1930s, the Malaxa factories were one of the biggest industrial group in Southeastern Europe, and the main provider of equipment for the Romanian Railways during the period.\n\nNationalised in 1948, part of the company became known as 23 August Works. During Communist Romania it extended its range of manufacturing by approaching pilot projects to the most Romanian industries but also to other countries in Europe, Asia and Africa.\n\nIn 1990, the company was renamed FAUR and privatized.\n\nSince 2004, FAUR is part of Bega Group.\n\nSince 1920, the design and the construction of different types of railway engines began at the Domains Factories (nowadays UMC Reșița) in Reșița and Malaxa Factories in Bucharest. Due to the success of the construction of the railway engines in Reșița and Bucharest factories, Romania ceased importing railway locomotives starting with 1930. Between 1926 and 1960, a total number of 1,207 steam locomotives were built in Romania: 10 models for standard tracks and 3 models for the narrow gauge railways. From these, 797 steam locomotives were made in Reșița Factories and 410 at Malaxa Factories. In 1960 the production of steam locomotives was ceased, the Romanian industry focusing on fabrication of the diesel railway engines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54275554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54275554", "title": "Fjarðarheiðargöng", "text": "Fjarðarheiðargöng\n\nFjarðarheiðargöng, also known as \"Seyðisfjarðargöng\", is a proposed road tunnel along route 93 in eastern Iceland. The tunnel would replace a 600m high pass between Seyðisfjörður and Egilsstaðir.\n"}
{"id": "22089156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22089156", "title": "Foreign housing exclusion", "text": "Foreign housing exclusion\n\nThe foreign housing exclusion goes hand-in-hand with the foreign earned income exclusion. According to section 911(a) of the federal tax code, a qualified individual under either the bona fide residence test or the physical presence test will be able to exclude from the gross income the housing amount in a foreign country provided for by the employer. Note that \"provided for by the employer\" does not require that the employer actually procure the housing. If the housing is paid for out of wages paid by the employer, this will meet the test. However, housing expenses in excess of the wages or earnings from self-employment would not qualify.\n\nThe tax code defines the \"housing amount\" as the total of all qualified housing expenses less the \"base housing amount.\" As a result, it is then important to define what is considered qualified housing expenses as well what the IRS mean by the base housing amount.\n\nIn order to qualify, housing expenses must be reasonable expenses incurred by the expatriate or their spouse and dependents if they live together in a foreign country. An exception to this rule would be if a second foreign household is maintained for the spouse and dependents due certain adverse and unhealthful conditions such as warfare or civil unrest. As a result, qualified housing expenses for both the first and second foreign home would include the following:\n\n\nOutside of the above list, any other housing expenses are not considered qualified. In addition, the value of meals or lodging that is excluded from gross income will not be excludable for foreign housing exclusion purposes as this would be considered a double benefit. For example, it would not include:\n\n\nKeep in mind that you cannot include any expenses that you have excluded from gross income, there is no double benefit, in short. There is also a limit on the amount of housing expenses one can incur, usually around 30% of the FEI exclusion times the number of days in the qualifying period, usually about $27,450 a year. You can sometimes get more than this standard limit if you live in a high-cost locality, these limits can be found on Form 2555.\n\nIf you have 2 foreign households, because your family cannot live near your work because of dangerous or unhealthful conditions, you may qualify for including the expenses of the second household. This can also include adverse living conditions including war, or if you need to live on a construction site or drilling rig.\n\nIf you are not self-employed, even partially, you cannot take a housing deduction, although you may be eligible for exclusion, as mentioned earlier. If you are considered self-employed, then you can deduct the housing amount on line 36 of form 1040 and form 2555. If you are both employed and self-employed, you can deduct part of your housing amount and also exclude a portion of it.\n\nDetermining a couples tax obligations matters if they are living together or separately.\n\nSections 911(c)(2)(A)(i) and 911(c)(2)(A)(ii) of the federal tax code limits the housing expenses eligible for the housing exclusion to 30% of the maximum foreign earned income exclusion. The result is then multiplied by the number of days in the qualifying period that fall within the tax year. For 2015, if the maximum foreign earned income exclusion is $100,800, eligible housing expenses for the year would be limited to $30,240 (30% of $100,800). However, qualified individuals living in high-cost neighborhoods are able to deduct more than the standard limit of $30,240 in 2015 but not more than the limits outlined in the Instructions for Form 2555.\n\nIn defining the base amount, section 911(c)(1)(B)(iii) of the federal tax code states that the amount is equal to 16% of the maximum foreign earned income exclusion multiplied by the number of qualifying days within the tax year. Once again, if the maximum foreign earned income exclusion for the 2015 tax year is $100,800, the base amount would be limited to $16,128 (16% of $100,800) for the year.\n\nTo illustrate, let's assume that an architect qualifies for the foreign earned income exclusion under the physical presence test with a qualifying period that includes all of 2015. He makes $69,000 through wages and had $18,000 in housing expenses. In determining the housing amount for the foreign housing exclusion, the housing expenses would meet the $30,240 limit for the year. However, $16,128 must be reduced from the $18,000 in order to arrive at the housing amount of $1,872 that is eligible for the foreign housing exclusion.\n\nIt is important to reiterate that in order to take advantage of the housing exclusion, the housing amount must be paid for by employer-provided amounts or incurred from maintaining a qualified second foreign household. Secondly, if housing amounts are to be excluded, this must be calculated first before the foreign earned income exclusion can be determined. In other words, the housing amount must be deducted from the total foreign earned income to arrive at the excludable amount for foreign earned income exclusion purposes. Lastly, to choose the housing exclusion, Form 2555 is the only form allowed and must be completely filled out. Form 2555-EZ cannot be used to claim the foreign housing exclusion.\n"}
{"id": "10349424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10349424", "title": "Gajtan Cave", "text": "Gajtan Cave\n\nThe Gajtan cave () is a natural monument in Gajtan, Shkodër, Albania.\n"}
{"id": "49520284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49520284", "title": "Global Research Collaboration for Infectious Disease Preparedness", "text": "Global Research Collaboration for Infectious Disease Preparedness\n\nThe Global Research Collaboration for Infectious Disease Preparedness (GLOPID-R) is an international initiative to anticipate and prepare for future threats from infectious diseases. Founded in 2013, GLOPID-R is intended to be a means for facilitating communication and collaboration between its member bodies, not a funding or disaster response entity. Its secretariat is funded by the European Union.\n\n, GLOPID-R's member organizations were as follows:\n\n\nwith the World Health Organization as an observer.\n\n"}
{"id": "7390009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7390009", "title": "Heilongjiang Television Station", "text": "Heilongjiang Television Station\n\nHeilongjiang Television (HLJTV, ), is a television network in the Harbin, China and Heilongjiang province area. The Heilongjiang Television and Radio Broadcast Center is located in the Long Ta (Dragon Tower). It is associated with Long Guang through the Heilongjiang Radio and TV Group. The logo is conspicuously both the English \"H\" and the Chinese \"龙\", depending on how one looks at it.\n\n\"Heilongjiang Television Bei Jing Zai Xian\" () is the online website that describes the television stations of Heilongjiang Television, including the listing and contents. (The \"Bei Jing\" in this case means \"background scenery\" and is not the same as Beijing, the capital city of China).\n\n"}
{"id": "4354087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354087", "title": "Home in Toa Payoh", "text": "Home in Toa Payoh\n\nHome in Toa Payoh is a Singapore Chinese drama which had its original run telecast in December 2003. The drama is produced by Singapore's Mediacorp TV Channel 8. It was re-aired in 2007 on every weekday, 5.30pm on Channel 8.\n\nThe first four minutes of the first episode introduces Toa Payoh, one of Singapore's oldest estates, and chronicles its development from a small \"kampung\" along swampy marshland to a modernised thriving neighbourhood. The series depicts life in a typical HDB estate.\n\nBaomei, Pengkun and Guocheng are childhood friends who grew up together in Toa Payoh. Baomei is an overly thrifty bachelor who is a foreman at a factory. Pengkun is a top technician at Baomei's factory but is always skiving to return home early to be with his wife and children. Guocheng is a highly successful insurance salesman with a loving but constantly nagging wife Huiming. The three of them and their families have to put up with the gossipy and quarrelsome Auntie Fen who often argues with Guocheng's father-in-law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57922489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57922489", "title": "Icelandic Centre for Research", "text": "Icelandic Centre for Research\n\nThe Icelandic Centre for Research (RANNIS; Icelandic: Rannsóknamiðstöð Íslands) funds and promotes scientific research in Iceland. It formed in 2003 through an act of legislation. As of 2007, the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture oversees its activities. It operates from headquarters on Borgartún in Reykjavík.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2003, the center operated as the Icelandic Research Council. \"As of 2013 scientific publications based on projects, funded entirely or partially by the Icelandic Center for Research, Rannís, must be published in open access.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1853924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853924", "title": "Independent Senate Group", "text": "Independent Senate Group\n\nThe Independent Senate Group (, OSF) is a parliamentary party in the Dutch Senate with one senator, representing several provincial parties.\n\nIn 1995, several provincial parties and The Greens proposed their own list. Marten Bierman nominated by The Greens and second on the list was elected senator by a preference vote. In 1999, Bierman was re-elected. In 2003, Henk ten Hoeve became senator for the OSF. He had been member of the Friesland provincial legislature for the Frisian National Party. He remained senator and leader of the party until 2011, when his role was taken over by Kees de Lange.\n\nIn 2015, Henk ten Hoeve became senator of the party for a second time.\n\nThe main parties involved are the Frisian National Party, the Party for the North, the Party New Limburg and the Brabant Party. The Greens lost their provincial seats in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "33576905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33576905", "title": "Kele languages", "text": "Kele languages\n\nThe Kele or Sheke languages are a clade of Bantu languages coded Zone B.20 in Guthrie's classification. According to Nurse & Philippson (2003), apart possibly from Seki (Sheke) (B.21) itself, the languages form a valid node. They are:\n\nMaho (2009) adds B203 Sama, B204 Ndambomo, B205 Metombola.\n\n"}
{"id": "36416294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36416294", "title": "Kelle Airport", "text": "Kelle Airport\n\nKellé Airport is an airstrip serving the village of Kellé in the Cuvette-Ouest Department, Republic of the Congo. The runway is southeast of the village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38963950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38963950", "title": "La Bandera Roja", "text": "La Bandera Roja\n\nLa Bandera Roja ('The Red Flag') was a socialist weekly newspaper published from Castro Urdiales, Spain in 1901.\n"}
{"id": "17514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514", "title": "Latvia", "text": "Latvia\n\nLatvia ( or ; ), officially the Republic of Latvia (), is a country in the Baltic region of Northern Europe. Since its independence, Latvia has been referred to as one of the Baltic states. It is bordered by Estonia in the northern region, Lithuania in the southern, to the east is Russia, and Belarus to the southeast, as well as sharing a maritime border with Sweden to the west. Latvia has 1,957,200 inhabitants and a territory of . The country has a temperate seasonal climate.\n\nAfter centuries of Swedish, Polish-Lithuanian and Russian rule, a rule mainly executed by the Baltic German aristocracy, the Republic of Latvia was established on 18 November 1918 when it broke away and declared independence in the aftermath of World War I. However, by the 1930s the country became increasingly autocratic after the coup in 1934 establishing an authoritarian regime under Kārlis Ulmanis. The country's \"de facto\" independence was interrupted at the outset of World War II, beginning with Latvia's forcible incorporation into the Soviet Union, followed by the invasion and occupation by Nazi Germany in 1941, and the re-occupation by the Soviets in 1944 (Courland Pocket in 1945) to form the Latvian SSR for the next 45 years.\n\nThe peaceful Singing Revolution, starting in 1987, called for Baltic emancipation from Soviet rule and condemning the Stalinist regime's illegal takeover. It ended with the Declaration on the Restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia on 4 May 1990, and restoring \"de facto\" independence on 21 August 1991. Latvia is a democratic sovereign state, parliamentary republic and a very highly developed country according to the United Nations Human Development Index. Its capital Riga served as the European Capital of Culture in 2014. Latvian is the official language. Latvia is a unitary state, divided into 119 administrative divisions, of which 110 are municipalities and 9 are cities. Latvians and Livonians are the indigenous people of Latvia. Latvian and Lithuanian are the only two surviving Baltic languages.\n\nDespite foreign rule from the 13th to 20th centuries, the Latvian nation maintained its identity throughout the generations via the language and musical traditions. However, as a consequence of centuries of Russian rule (1710–1918) and later Soviet occupation, Latvia is home to a large number of ethnic Russians (26.9% in Latvia), some of whom (14.1% of Latvian residents) have not gained citizenship, leaving them with no citizenship at all. Until World War II, Latvia also had significant minorities of ethnic Germans and Jews. Latvia is historically predominantly Lutheran Protestant, except for the Latgale region in the southeast, which has historically been predominantly Roman Catholic. The Russian population are largely Eastern Orthodox Christians.\n\nLatvia is a member of the European Union, NATO, the Council of Europe, the United Nations, CBSS, the IMF, NB8, NIB, OECD, OSCE, and WTO. For 2014, the country was listed 46th on the Human Development Index and as a high income country on 1 July 2014. A full member of the Eurozone, it uses the euro as its currency since 1 January 2014, replacing the Latvian lats.\n\nThe name \"Latvija\" is derived from the name of the ancient Latgalians, one of four Indo-European Baltic tribes (along with Couronians, Selonians and Semigallians), which formed the ethnic core of modern Latvians together with the Finnic Livonians. Henry of Latvia coined the latinisations of the country's name, \"Lettigallia\" and \"Lethia\", both derived from the Latgalians. The terms inspired the variations on the country's name in Romance languages from \"Letonia\" and in several Germanic languages from \"Lettland\".\n\nAround 3000 BC, the proto-Baltic ancestors of the Latvian people settled on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea. The Balts established trade routes to Rome and Byzantium, trading local amber for precious metals. By 900 AD, four distinct Baltic tribes inhabited Latvia: Curonians, Latgalians, Selonians, Semigallians (in Latvian: \"kurši\", \"latgaļi\", \"sēļi\" and \"zemgaļi\"), as well as the Finnic tribe of Livonians (\"lībieši\") speaking a Finnic language.\n\nIn the 12th century in the territory of Latvia, there were 14 lands with their rulers: Vanema, Ventava, Bandava, Piemare, Duvzare, Ceklis, Megava, Pilsāts, Upmale, Sēlija, Koknese, Jersika, Tālava and Adzele.\n\nAlthough the local people had contact with the outside world for centuries, they became more fully integrated into the European socio-political system in the 12th century. The first missionaries, sent by the Pope, sailed up the Daugava River in the late 12th century, seeking converts. The local people, however, did not convert to Christianity as readily as the Church had hoped. German crusaders were sent, or more likely decided to go on their own accord as they were known to do. Saint Meinhard of Segeberg arrived in Ikšķile, in 1184, traveling with merchants to Livonia, on a Catholic mission to convert the population from their original pagan beliefs. Pope Celestine III had called for a crusade against pagans in Northern Europe in 1193. When peaceful means of conversion failed to produce results, Meinhard plotted to convert Livonians by force of arms.\n\nIn the beginning of the 13th century, Germans ruled large parts of today's Latvia. Together with Southern Estonia, these conquered areas formed the crusader state that became known as Terra Mariana or Livonia. In 1282, Riga, and later the cities of Cēsis, Limbaži, Koknese and Valmiera, became part of the Hanseatic League. Riga became an important point of east-west trading and formed close cultural links with Western Europe.\n\nAfter the Livonian War (1558–1583), Livonia (Latvia) fell under Polish and Lithuanian rule. The southern part of Estonia and the northern part of Latvia were ceded to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and formed into the Duchy of Livonia (\"Ducatus Livoniae Ultradunensis\"). Gotthard Kettler, the last Master of the Order of Livonia, formed the Duchy of Courland and Semigallia. Though the duchy was a vassal state to Poland, it retained a considerable degree of autonomy and experienced a golden age in the 16th century. Latgalia, the easternmost region of Latvia, became a part of the Inflanty Voivodeship of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nIn the 17th and early 18th centuries, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, Sweden, and Russia struggled for supremacy in the eastern Baltic. After the Polish–Swedish War, northern Livonia (including Vidzeme) came under Swedish rule. Riga became the capital of Swedish Livonia and the largest city in the entire Swedish Empire. Fighting continued sporadically between Sweden and Poland until the Truce of Altmark in 1629. In Latvia, the Swedish period is generally remembered as positive; serfdom was eased, a network of schools was established for the peasantry, and the power of the regional barons was diminished.\n\nSeveral important cultural changes occurred during this time. Under Swedish and largely German rule, western Latvia adopted Lutheranism as its main religion. The ancient tribes of the Couronians, Semigallians, Selonians, Livs, and northern Latgallians assimilated to form the Latvian people, speaking one Latvian language. Throughout all the centuries, however, an actual Latvian state had not been established, so the borders and definitions of who exactly fell within that group are largely subjective. Meanwhile, largely isolated from the rest of Latvia, southern Latgallians adopted Catholicism under Polish/Jesuit influence. The native dialect remained distinct, although it acquired many Polish and Russian loanwords.\n\nThe capitulation of Estonia and Livonia in 1710 and the Treaty of Nystad, ending the Great Northern War in 1721, gave Vidzeme to Russia (it became part of the Riga Governorate). The Latgale region remained part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth as Inflanty Voivodeship until 1772, when it was incorporated into Russia. The Duchy of Courland and Semigallia became an autonomous Russian province (the Courland Governorate) in 1795, bringing all of what is now Latvia into the Russian Empire. All three Baltic provinces preserved local laws, German as the local official language and their own parliament, the Landtag.\n\nDuring the Great Northern War (1700–1721), up to 40 percent of Latvians died from famine and plague. Half the residents of Riga were killed by plague in 1710–1711.\n\nThe emancipation of the serfs took place in Courland in 1817 and in Vidzeme in 1819. In practice, however, the emancipation was actually advantageous to the landowners and nobility, as it dispossessed peasants of their land without compensation, forcing them to return to work at the estates \"of their own free will\".\n\nDuring the 19th century, the social structure changed dramatically. A class of independent farmers established itself after reforms allowed the peasants to repurchase their land, but many landless peasants remained. There also developed a growing urban proletariat and an increasingly influential Latvian bourgeoisie. The Young Latvian () movement laid the groundwork for nationalism from the middle of the century, many of its leaders looking to the Slavophiles for support against the prevailing German-dominated social order. The rise in use of the Latvian language in literature and society became known as the First National Awakening. Russification began in Latgale after the Polish led the January Uprising in 1863: this spread to the rest of what is now Latvia by the 1880s. The Young Latvians were largely eclipsed by the New Current, a broad leftist social and political movement, in the 1890s. Popular discontent exploded in the 1905 Russian Revolution, which took a nationalist character in the Baltic provinces.\n\nDuring these two centuries Latvia experienced economic and construction boom – ports were expanded (Riga became the largest port in the Russian Empire), railways built; new factories, banks, and a University were established; many residential, public (theatres and museums), and school buildings were erected; new parks formed; and so on. Riga's boulevards and some streets outside the Old Town date from this period.\n\nWorth mentioning is the fact that numeracy was also higher in the Estonian and Latvian parts of the Russian Empire, which may have been influenced by the Protestant religion of the inhabitants.\n\nWorld War I devastated the territory of what became the state of Latvia, and other western parts of the Russian Empire. Demands for self-determination were initially confined to autonomy, until a power vacuum was created by the Russian Revolution in 1917, followed by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk between Russia and Germany in March 1918, then the Allied armistice with Germany on 11 November 1918. On 18 November 1918, in Riga, the People's Council of Latvia proclaimed the independence of the new country, with Kārlis Ulmanis becoming the head of the provisional government.\nThe General representative of Germany August Winnig formally handed over political power to the Latvian Provisional Government on 26 November.\n\nThe war of independence that followed was part of a general chaotic period of civil and new border wars in Eastern Europe. By the spring of 1919, there were actually three governments: the Provisional government headed by Kārlis Ulmanis, supported by Tautas padome and the Inter-Allied Commission of Control; the Latvian Soviet government led by Pēteris Stučka, supported by the Red Army; and the Provisional government headed by Andrievs Niedra and supported by the Baltische Landeswehr and the German Freikorps unit \"Iron Division\".\n\nEstonian and Latvian forces defeated the Germans at the Battle of Wenden in June 1919, and a massive attack by a predominantly German force—the West Russian Volunteer Army—under Pavel Bermondt-Avalov was repelled in November. Eastern Latvia was cleared of Red Army forces by Latvian and Polish troops in early 1920 (from the Polish perspective the Battle of Daugavpils was a part of the Polish–Soviet War).\n\nA freely elected Constituent assembly convened on 1 May 1920, and adopted a liberal constitution, the \"Satversme\", in February 1922. The constitution was partly suspended by Kārlis Ulmanis after his coup in 1934 but reaffirmed in 1990. Since then, it has been amended and is still in effect in Latvia today. With most of Latvia's industrial base evacuated to the interior of Russia in 1915, radical land reform was the central political question for the young state. In 1897, 61.2% of the rural population had been landless; by 1936, that percentage had been reduced to 18%.\n\nBy 1923, the extent of cultivated land surpassed the pre-war level. Innovation and rising productivity led to rapid growth of the economy, but it soon suffered from the effects of the Great Depression. Latvia showed signs of economic recovery, and the electorate had steadily moved toward the centre during the parliamentary period. On 15 May 1934, Ulmanis staged a bloodless coup, establishing a nationalist dictatorship that lasted until 1940. After 1934, Ulmanis established government corporations to buy up private firms with the aim of \"Latvianising\" the economy.\n\nEarly in the morning of 24 August 1939, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany signed a 10-year non-aggression pact, called the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. The pact contained a secret protocol, revealed only after Germany's defeat in 1945, according to which the states of Northern and Eastern Europe were divided into German and Soviet \"spheres of influence\". In the north, Latvia, Finland and Estonia were assigned to the Soviet sphere. A week later, on 1 September 1939, Germany and on 17 September, the Soviet Union invaded Poland.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, most of the Baltic Germans left Latvia by agreement between Ulmanis' government and Nazi Germany under the Heim ins Reich programme. In total 50,000 Baltic Germans left by the deadline of December 1939, with 1,600 remaining to conclude business and 13,000 choosing to remain in Latvia. Most of those who remained left for Germany in summer 1940, when a second resettlement scheme was agreed. The racially approved being resettled mainly in Poland, being given land and businesses in exchange for the money they had received from the sale of their previous assets.\n\nOn 5 October 1939, Latvia was forced to accept a \"mutual assistance\" pact with the Soviet Union, granting the Soviets the right to station between 25,000 and 30,000 troops on Latvian territory.\nState administrators were liquidated and replaced by Soviet cadres. Elections were held with single pro-Soviet candidates listed for many positions. The resulting people's assembly immediately requested admission into the USSR, which the Soviet Union granted. Latvia, then a puppet government, was headed by Augusts Kirhenšteins. The Soviet Union incorporated Latvia on 5 August 1940, as The \"Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic.\"\nThe Soviets dealt harshly with their opponents – prior to Operation Barbarossa, in less than a year, at least 34,250 Latvians were deported or killed. Most were deported to Siberia where deaths were estimated at 40 percent, officers of the Latvian army being shot on the spot.\n\nOn 22 June 1941 German troops attacked Soviet forces in Operation Barbarossa. There were some spontaneous uprisings by Latvians against the Red Army which helped the Germans. By 29 June Riga was reached and with Soviet troops killed, captured or retreating, Latvia was left under the control of German forces by early July. The occupation was followed immediately by SS Einsatzgruppen troops who were to act in accordance with the Nazi Generalplan Ost which required the population of Latvia to be cut by 50 percent.\n\nUnder German occupation, Latvia was administered as part of \"Reichskommissariat Ostland\". Latvian paramilitary and Auxiliary Police units established by the occupation authority participated in the Holocaust and other atrocities. 30,000 Jews were shot in Latvia in the autumn of 1941. Another 30,000 Jews from the Riga ghetto were killed in the Rumbula Forest in November and December 1941, to reduce overpopulation in the ghetto and make room for more Jews being brought in from Germany and the West. There was a pause in fighting, apart from partisan activity, until after the siege of Leningrad ended in January 1944 and the Soviet troops advanced, entering Latvia in July and eventually capturing Riga on 13 October 1944.\n\nMore than 200,000 Latvian citizens died during World War II, including approximately 75,000 Latvian Jews murdered during the Nazi occupation. Latvian soldiers fought on both sides of the conflict, mainly on the German side, with 140,000 men in the Latvian Legion of the Waffen-SS, The 308th Latvian Rifle Division was formed by the Red Army in 1944. On occasions, especially in 1944, opposing Latvian troops faced each other in battle. Activity reached a peak in late 1946.\n\nIn 1944, when Soviet military advances reached Latvia, heavy fighting took place in Latvia between German and Soviet troops, which ended in another German defeat. In the course of the war, both occupying forces conscripted Latvians into their armies, in this way increasing the loss of the nation's \"live resources\". In 1944, part of the Latvian territory once more came under Soviet control. The Soviets immediately began to reinstate the Soviet system. After the German surrender, it became clear that Soviet forces were there to stay, and Latvian national partisans, soon joined by some who had collaborated with the Germans, began to fight against the new occupier.\n\nAnywhere from 120,000 to as many as 300,000 Latvians took refuge from the Soviet army by fleeing to Germany and Sweden. Most sources count 200,000 to 250,000 refugees leaving Latvia, with perhaps as many as 80,000 to 100,000 of them recaptured by the Soviets or, during few months immediately after the end of war, returned by the West.\nThe Soviets reoccupied the country in 1944–1945, and further deportations followed as the country was collectivised\nand Sovieticised. \n\nOn 25 March 1949, 43,000 rural residents (\"kulaks\") and Latvian patriots (\"nationalists\") were deported to Siberia in a sweeping Operation Priboi in all three Baltic states, which was carefully planned and approved in Moscow already on 29 January 1949. This operation had the desired effect of reducing the anti Soviet partisan activity. Between 136,000 and 190,000 Latvians, depending on the sources, were imprisoned or deported to Soviet concentration camps (the Gulag) in the post war years, from 1945 to 1952. Some managed to escape arrest and joined the partisans.\n\nIn the post-war period, Latvia was made to adopt Soviet farming methods. Rural areas were forced into collectivisation. An extensive programme to impose bilingualism was initiated in Latvia, limiting the use of Latvian language in official uses in favour of using Russian as the main language. All of the minority schools (Jewish, Polish, Belarusian, Estonian, Lithuanian) were closed down leaving only two media of instructions in the schools: Latvian and Russian. An influx of labourers, administrators, military personnel and their dependants from Russia and other Soviet republics started. By 1959 about 400,000 people arrived from other Soviet republics and the ethnic Latvian population had fallen to 62%.\n\nSince Latvia had maintained a well-developed infrastructure and educated specialists, Moscow decided to base some of the Soviet Union's most advanced manufacturing in Latvia. New industry was created in Latvia, including a major machinery factory RAF in Jelgava, electrotechnical factories in Riga, chemical factories in Daugavpils, Valmiera and Olaine—and some food and oil processing plants. Latvia manufactured trains, ships, minibuses, mopeds, telephones, radios and hi-fi systems, electrical and diesel engines, textiles, furniture, clothing, bags and luggage, shoes, musical instruments, home appliances, watches, tools and equipment, aviation and agricultural equipment and long list of other goods. Latvia had its own film industry and musical records factory (LPs). However, there were not enough people to operate the newly built factories. To maintain and expand industrial production, skilled workers were migrating from all over the Soviet Union, decreasing the proportion of ethnic Latvians in the republic. The population of Latvia reached its peak in 1990 at just under 2.7 million people.\n\nIn the second half of the 1980s, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev started to introduce political and economic reforms in the Soviet Union that were called glasnost and perestroika. In the summer of 1987, the first large demonstrations were held in Riga at the Freedom Monument—a symbol of independence. In the summer of 1988, a national movement, coalescing in the Popular Front of Latvia, was opposed by the Interfront. The Latvian SSR, along with the other Baltic Republics was allowed greater autonomy, and in 1988, the old pre-war Flag of Latvia flew again, replacing the Soviet Latvian flag as the official flag in 1990.\n\nIn 1989, the Supreme Soviet of the USSR adopted a resolution on the \"Occupation of the Baltic states\", in which it declared the occupation \"not in accordance with law\", and not the \"will of the Soviet people\". Pro-independence Popular Front of Latvia candidates gained a two-thirds majority in the Supreme Council in the March 1990 democratic elections. On 4 May 1990, the Supreme Council adopted the Declaration on the Restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia, and the Latvian SSR was renamed Republic of Latvia.\n\nHowever, the central power in Moscow continued to regard Latvia as a Soviet republic in 1990 and 1991. In January 1991, Soviet political and military forces tried unsuccessfully to overthrow the Republic of Latvia authorities by occupying the central publishing house in Riga and establishing a Committee of National Salvation to usurp governmental functions. During the transitional period, Moscow maintained many central Soviet state authorities in Latvia.\n\nIn spite of this, 73% of all Latvian residents confirmed their strong support for independence on 3 March 1991, in a nonbinding advisory referendum. The Popular Front of Latvia advocated that all permanent residents be eligible for Latvian citizenship, and that helped sway a large number of ethnic Russians to vote for independence. However, universal citizenship for all permanent residents was not adopted. Instead, citizenship was granted to persons who had been citizens of Latvia at the day of loss of independence at 1940 as well as their descendants. As a consequence, the majority of ethnic non-Latvians did not receive Latvian citizenship since neither they nor their parents had ever been citizens of Latvia, becoming non-citizens or citizens of other former Soviet republics. By 2011, more than half of non-citizens had taken naturalisation exams and received Latvian citizenship. Still, today there are 290,660 non-citizens in Latvia, which represent 14.1% of population. They have no citizenship of any country, and cannot vote in Latvia.\n\nThe Republic of Latvia declared the end of the transitional period and restored full independence on 21 August 1991, in the aftermath of the failed Soviet coup attempt.\nThe Saeima, Latvia's parliament, was again elected in 1993. Russia ended its military presence by completing its troop withdrawal in 1994 and shutting down the Skrunda-1 radar station in 1998. The major goals of Latvia in the 1990s, to join NATO and the European Union, were achieved in 2004. The NATO Summit 2006 was held in Riga.\n\nLanguage and citizenship laws have been opposed by many Russophones. Citizenship was not automatically extended to former Soviet citizens who settled during the Soviet occupation, or to their offspring. Children born to non-nationals after the reestablishment of independence are automatically entitled to citizenship. Approximately 72% of Latvian citizens are Latvian, while 20% are Russian; less than 1% of non-citizens are Latvian, while 71% are Russian. The government denationalised private property confiscated by the Soviets, returning it or compensating the owners for it, and privatised most state-owned industries, reintroducing the prewar currency. Albeit having experienced a difficult transition to a liberal economy and its re-orientation toward Western Europe, Latvia is one of the fastest growing economies in the European Union. In 2014, Riga was the European Capital of Culture, the euro was introduced as the currency of the country and a Latvian was named vice-president of the European Commission. In 2015 Latvia held the presidency of Council of the European Union. Big European events have been celebrated in Riga such as the Eurovision Song Contest 2003 and the European Film Awards 2014. On 1 July 2016, Latvia became a member of the OECD.\n\nLatvia lies in Northern Europe, on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea and northwestern part of the East European craton, between latitudes 55° and 58° N (a small area is north of 58°), and longitudes 21° and 29° E (a small area is west of 21°). Latvia has a total area of of which land, agricultural land, forest land and inland water.\n\nThe total length of Latvia's boundary is . The total length of its land boundary is , of which is shared with Estonia to the north, with the Russian Federation to the east, with Belarus to the southeast and with Lithuania to the south. The total length of its maritime boundary is , which is shared with Estonia, Sweden and Lithuania. Extension from north to south is and from west to east .\n\nMost of Latvia's territory is less than above sea level. Its largest lake, Lubāns, has an area of , its deepest lake, Drīdzis, is deep. The longest river on Latvian territory is the Gauja, at in length. The longest river flowing through Latvian territory is the Daugava, which has a total length of , of which is on Latvian territory. Latvia's highest point is Gaiziņkalns, . The length of Latvia's Baltic coastline is . An inlet of the Baltic Sea, the shallow Gulf of Riga is situated in the northwest of the country.\n\nLatvia has a temperate climate that has been described in various sources as either humid continental () or oceanic/maritime (Köppen \"Cfb\").\n\nCoastal regions, especially the western coast of Courland Peninsula, possess a more maritime climate with cooler summers and milder winters, while eastern parts exhibit a more continental climate with warmer summers and harsher winters.\n\nLatvia has four pronounced seasons of near-equal length. Winter starts in mid-December and lasts until mid-March. Winters have average temperatures of and are characterized by stable snow cover, bright sunshine, and short days. Severe spells of winter weather with cold winds, extreme temperatures of around and heavy snowfalls are common. Summer starts in June and lasts until August. Summers are usually warm and sunny, with cool evenings and nights. Summers have average temperatures of around , with extremes of . Spring and autumn bring fairly mild weather.\n\nMost of the country is composed of fertile lowland plains and moderate hills. In a typical Latvian landscape, a mosaic of vast forests alternates with fields, farmsteads, and pastures. Arable land is spotted with birch groves and wooded clusters, which afford a habitat for numerous plants and animals. Latvia has hundreds of kilometres of undeveloped seashore—lined by pine forests, dunes, and continuous white sand beaches.\n\nLatvia has the 5th highest proportion of land covered by forests in the European Union, after Sweden, Finland, Estonia and Slovenia. Forests account for or 56% of the total land area.\n\nLatvia has over 12,500 rivers, which stretch for . Major rivers include the Daugava River, Lielupe, Gauja, Venta, and Salaca, the largest spawning ground for salmon in the eastern Baltics. There are 2,256 lakes that are bigger than , with a collective area of . Mires occupy 9.9% of Latvia's territory. Of these, 42% are raised bogs; 49% are fens; and 9% are transitional mires. 70% percent of the mires are untouched by civilisation, and they are a refuge for many rare species of plants and animals.\n\nAgricultural areas account for or 29% of the total land area. With the dismantling of collective farms, the area devoted to farming decreased dramatically – now farms are predominantly small. Approximately 200 farms, occupying , are engaged in ecologically pure farming (using no artificial fertilisers or pesticides).\n\nLatvia's national parks are Gauja National Park in Vidzeme (since 1973), Ķemeri National Park in Zemgale (1997), Slītere National Park in Kurzeme (1999), and Rāzna National Park in Latgale (2007).\n\nLatvia has a long tradition of conservation. The first laws and regulations were promulgated in the 16th and 17th centuries. There are 706 specially state-level protected natural areas in Latvia: four national parks, one biosphere reserve, 42 nature parks, nine areas of protected landscapes, 260 nature reserves, four strict nature reserves, 355 nature monuments, seven protected marine areas and 24 microreserves. Nationally protected areas account for or around 20% of Latvia's total land area. Latvia's Red Book (Endangered Species List of Latvia), which was established in 1977, contains 112 plant species and 119 animal species. Latvia has ratified the international Washington, Bern, and Ramsare conventions.\n\nThe 2012 Environmental Performance Index ranks Latvia second, after Switzerland, based on the environmental performance of the country's policies.\n\nApproximately 30,000 species of flora and fauna have been registered in Latvia. Common species of wildlife in Latvia include deer, wild boar, moose, lynx, bear, fox, beaver and wolves. Non-marine molluscs of Latvia include 159 species.\n\nSpecies that are endangered in other European countries but common in Latvia include: black stork (\"Ciconia nigra\"), corncrake (\"Crex crex\"), lesser spotted eagle (\"Aquila pomarina\"), white-backed woodpecker (\"Picoides leucotos\"), Eurasian crane (\"Grus grus\"), Eurasian beaver (\"Castor fiber\"), Eurasian otter (\"Lutra lutra\"), European wolf (\"Canis lupus\") and European lynx (\"Felis lynx\").\n\nPhytogeographically, Latvia is shared between the Central European and Northern European provinces of the Circumboreal Region within the Boreal Kingdom. According to the WWF, the territory of Latvia belongs to the ecoregion of Sarmatic mixed forests. 56 percent of Latvia's territory is covered by forests, mostly Scots pine, birch, and Norway spruce.\n\nSeveral species of flora and fauna are considered national symbols. Oak (\"Quercus robur\", ), and linden (\"Tilia cordata\", ) are Latvia's national trees and the daisy (\"Leucanthemum vulgare\", ) its national flower. The white wagtail (\"Motacilla alba\", ) is Latvia's national bird. Its national insect is the two-spot ladybird (\"Adalia bipunctata\", ). Amber, fossilized tree resin, is one of Latvia's most important cultural symbols. In ancient times, amber found along the Baltic Sea coast was sought by Vikings as well as traders from Egypt, Greece and the Roman Empire. This led to the development of the Amber Road.\n\nSeveral nature reserves protect unspoiled landscapes with a variety of large animals. At Pape Nature Reserve, where European bison, wild horses, and recreated aurochs have been reintroduced, there is now an almost complete Holocene megafauna also including moose, deer, and wolf.\n\nLatvia is a unitary state, currently divided into 110 one-level municipalities () and 9 republican cities () with their own city council and administration: Daugavpils, Jēkabpils, Jelgava, Jūrmala, Liepāja, Rēzekne, Riga, Valmiera, and Ventspils. There are four historical and cultural regions in Latvia – Courland, Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, which are recognised in Constitution of Latvia. Selonia, a part of Zemgale, is sometimes considered culturally distinct region, but it is not part of any formal division. The borders of historical and cultural regions usually are not explicitly defined and in several sources may vary. In formal divisions, Riga region, which includes the capital and parts of other regions that have a strong relationship with the capital, is also often included in regional divisions; e.g., there are five planning regions of Latvia (), which were created in 2009 to promote balanced development of all regions. Under this division Riga region includes large parts of what traditionally is considered Vidzeme, Courland, and Zemgale. Statistical regions of Latvia, established in accordance with the EU Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics, duplicate this division, but divides Riga region into two parts with the capital alone being a separate region.\nThe largest city in Latvia is Riga, the second largest city is Daugavpils and the third largest city is Liepaja.\n\nThe 100-seat unicameral Latvian parliament, the \"Saeima\", is elected by direct popular vote every four years. The president is elected by the \"Saeima\" in a separate election, also held every four years. The president appoints a prime minister who, together with his cabinet, forms the executive branch of the government, which has to receive a confidence vote by the \"Saeima\". This system also existed before World War II. The most senior civil servants are the thirteen Secretaries of State.\n\nLatvia is a member of the United Nations, European Union, Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE, IMF, and WTO. It is also a member of the Council of the Baltic Sea States and Nordic Investment Bank. It was a member of the League of Nations (1921–1946). Latvia is part of the Schengen Area and joined the Eurozone on 1 January 2014.\n\nLatvia has established diplomatic relations with 158 countries. It has 44 diplomatic and consular missions and maintains 34 embassies and 9 permanent representations abroad. There are 37 foreign embassies and 11 international organisations in Latvia's capital Riga. Latvia hosts one European Union institution, the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC).\n\nLatvia's foreign policy priorities include co-operation in the Baltic Sea region, European integration, active involvement in international organisations, contribution to European and transatlantic security and defence structures, participation in international civilian and military peacekeeping operations, and development co-operation, particularly the strengthening of stability and democracy in the EU's Eastern Partnership countries.\nSince the early 1990s, Latvia has been involved in active trilateral Baltic states co-operation with its neighbours Estonia and Lithuania, and Nordic-Baltic co-operation with the Nordic countries. The Baltic Council is the joint forum of the interparliamentary Baltic Assembly (BA) and the intergovernmental Baltic Council of Ministers (BCM). Nordic-Baltic Eight (NB-8) is the joint co-operation of the governments of Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, and Sweden. Nordic-Baltic Six (NB-6), comprising Nordic-Baltic countries that are European Union member states, is a framework for meetings on EU-related issues. Interparliamentary co-operation between the Baltic Assembly and Nordic Council was signed in 1992 and since 2006 annual meetings are held as well as regular meetings on other levels. Joint Nordic-Baltic co-operation initiatives include the education programme NordPlus and mobility programmes for public administration, business and industry and culture. The Nordic Council of Ministers has an office in Riga.\n\nLatvia participates in the Northern Dimension and Baltic Sea Region Programme, European Union initiatives to foster cross-border co-operation in the Baltic Sea region and Northern Europe. The secretariat of the Northern Dimension Partnership on Culture (NDPC) will be located in Riga. In 2013 Riga hosted the annual Northern Future Forum, a two-day informal meeting of the prime ministers of the Nordic-Baltic countries and the UK. The Enhanced Partnership in Northern Europe or \"e-Pine\" is the U.S. Department of State diplomatic framework for co-operation with the Nordic-Baltic countries.\n\nLatvia hosted the 2006 NATO Summit and since then the annual Riga Conference has become a leading foreign and security policy forum in Northern Europe. Latvia held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2015. \n\nAccording to the reports by Freedom House and the US Department of State, human rights in Latvia are generally respected by the government: Latvia is ranked above-average among the world's sovereign states in democracy, press freedom, privacy and human development.\n\nThe country has a large ethnic Russian community, which was guaranteed basic rights under the constitution and international human rights laws ratified by the Latvian government.\n\nApproximately 223,000 non-citizens – including stateless persons – have limited access to some political rights – only citizens are allowed to participate in parliamentary or municipal elections, although there are no limitations in regards to joining political parties or other political organizations. In 2011, the OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities \"urged Latvia to allow non-citizens to vote in municipal elections.\" Additionally, there have been reports of police abuse of detainees and arrestees, poor prison conditions and overcrowding, judicial corruption, discrimination against women, incidents of violence against ethnic minorities, and societal violence and incidents of government discrimination against homosexuals.\n\nIn 2016, Nils Ušakovs, the first ethnic Russian mayor of Riga in independent Latvia, has been fined by Latvia's State Language Center for posting in Russian on Facebook.\n\nThe National Armed Forces (Latvian: \"Nacionālie Bruņotie Spēki (NAF)\") of Latvia consists of the Land Forces, Naval Forces, Air Force, National Guard, Special Tasks Unit, Military Police, NAF staff Battalion, Training and Doctrine Command, and Logistics Command. Latvia's defence concept is based upon the Swedish-Finnish model of a rapid response force composed of a mobilisation base and a small group of career professionals. From 1 January 2007, Latvia switched to a professional fully contract-based army.\n\nLatvia participates in international peacekeeping and security operations. Latvian armed forces have contributed to NATO and EU military operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1996–2009), Albania (1999), Kosovo (2000–2009), Macedonia (2003), Iraq (2005–2006), Afghanistan (since 2003), Somalia (since 2011) and Mali (since 2013). Latvia also took part in the US-led Multi-National Force operation in Iraq (2003–2008) and OSCE missions in Georgia, Kosovo and Macedonia. Latvian armed forces contributed to a UK-led Battlegroup in 2013 and the Nordic Battlegroup in 2015 under the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) of the European Union. Latvia acts as the lead nation in the coordination of the Northern Distribution Network for transportation of non-lethal ISAF cargo by air and rail to Afghanistan. It is part of the Nordic Transition Support Unit (NTSU), which renders joint force contributions in support of Afghan security structures ahead of the withdrawal of Nordic and Baltic ISAF forces in 2014. Since 1996 more than 3600 military personnel have participated in international operations, of whom 7 soldiers perished. Per capita, Latvia is one of the largest contributors to international military operations.\n\nLatvian civilian experts have contributed to EU civilian missions: border assistance mission to Moldova and Ukraine (2005–2009), rule of law missions in Iraq (2006 and 2007) and Kosovo (since 2008), police mission in Afghanistan (since 2007) and monitoring mission in Georgia (since 2008).\n\nSince March 2004, when the Baltic states joined NATO, fighter jets of NATO members have been deployed on a rotational basis for the Baltic Air Policing mission at Šiauliai Airport in Lithuania to guard the Baltic airspace. Latvia participates in several NATO Centres of Excellence: Civil-Military Co-operation in the Netherlands, Cooperative Cyber Defence in Estonia and Energy Security in Lithuania. It plans to establish the NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence in Riga.\n\nLatvia co-operates with Estonia and Lithuania in several trilateral Baltic defence co-operation initiatives:\n\nFuture co-operation will include sharing of national infrastructures for training purposes and specialisation of training areas \"(BALTTRAIN)\" and collective formation of battalion-sized contingents for use in the NATO rapid-response force. In January 2011, the Baltic states were invited to join NORDEFCO, the defence framework of the Nordic countries. In November 2012, the three countries agreed to create a joint military staff in 2013.\n\nLatvia is a member of the World Trade Organization (1999) and the European Union (2004). On 1 January 2014, the Euro became the country's currency, superseding the Lats. According to statistics in late 2013, 45% of the population supported the introduction of the euro, while 52% opposed it. Following the introduction of the Euro, Eurobarometer surveys in January 2014 showed support for the Euro to be around 53%, close to the European average.\n\nSince the year 2000, Latvia has had one of the highest (GDP) growth rates in Europe. However, the chiefly consumption-driven growth in Latvia resulted in the collapse of Latvian GDP in late 2008 and early 2009, exacerbated by the global economic crisis, shortage of credit and huge money resources used for the bailout of Parex bank. The Latvian economy fell 18% in the first three months of 2009, the biggest fall in the European Union.\nThe economic crisis of 2009 proved earlier assumptions that the fast-growing economy was heading for implosion of the economic bubble, because it was driven mainly by growth of domestic consumption, financed by a serious increase of private debt, as well as a negative foreign trade balance. The prices of real estate, which were at some points growing by approximately 5% a month, were long perceived to be too high for the economy, which mainly produces low-value goods and raw materials.\n\nPrivatisation in Latvia is almost complete. Virtually all of the previously state-owned small and medium companies have been privatised, leaving only a small number of politically sensitive large state companies. The private sector accounted for nearly 68% of the country's GDP in 2000.\n\nForeign investment in Latvia is still modest compared with the levels in north-central Europe. A law expanding the scope for selling land, including to foreigners, was passed in 1997. Representing 10.2% of Latvia's total foreign direct investment, American companies invested $127 million in 1999. In the same year, the United States of America exported $58.2 million of goods and services to Latvia and imported $87.9 million. Eager to join Western economic institutions like the World Trade Organization, OECD, and the European Union, Latvia signed a Europe Agreement with the EU in 1995—with a 4-year transition period. Latvia and the United States have signed treaties on investment, trade, and intellectual property protection and avoidance of double taxation.\n\nThe Latvian economy entered a phase of fiscal contraction during the second half of 2008 after an extended period of credit-based speculation and unrealistic appreciation in real estate values. The national account deficit for 2007, for example, represented more than 22% of the GDP for the year while inflation was running at 10%.\n\nLatvia's unemployment rate rose sharply in this period from a low of 5.4% in November 2007 to over 22%. In April 2010 Latvia had the highest unemployment rate in the EU, at 22.5%, ahead of Spain, which had 19.7%.\n\nPaul Krugman, the Nobel Laureate in economics for 2008, wrote in his New York Times Op-Ed column on 15 December 2008:\n\nThe most acute problems are on Europe's periphery, where many smaller economies are experiencing crises strongly reminiscent of past crises in Latin America and Asia: Latvia is the new Argentina\n\nHowever, by 2010, commentators noted signs of stabilisation in the Latvian economy. Rating agency Standard & Poor's raised its outlook on Latvia's debt from negative to stable. Latvia's current account, which had been in deficit by 27% in late 2006 was in surplus in February 2010. Kenneth Orchard, senior analyst at Moody's Investors Service argued that:\n\nThe strengthening regional economy is supporting Latvian production and exports, while the sharp swing in the current account balance suggests that the country's 'internal devaluation' is working.\n\nThe IMF concluded the First Post-Program Monitoring Discussions with the Republic of Latvia in July 2012 announcing that Latvia's economy has been recovering strongly since 2010, following the deep downturn in 2008–09. Real GDP growth of 5.5 percent in 2011 was underpinned by export growth and a recovery in domestic demand. The growth momentum has continued into 2012 and 2013 despite deteriorating external conditions, and the economy is expected to expand by 4.1 percent in 2014. The unemployment rate has receded from its peak of more than 20 percent in 2010 to around 9.3 percent in 2014.\n\nThe transport sector is around 14% of GDP. Transit between Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan as well as other Asian countries and the West is large.\n\nThe three biggest ports of Latvia are located in Riga, Ventspils, and Liepāja. Most transit traffic uses these and half the cargo is crude oil and oil products. Free port of Ventspils is one of the busiest ports in the Baltic states. Apart from road and railway connections, Ventspils is also linked to oil extraction fields and transportation routes of Russian Federation via system of two pipelines from Polotsk, Belarus.\n\nRiga International Airport is the busiest airport in the Baltic states with 6.1 million passengers in 2017. It has direct flight to over 80 destinations in 30 countries. The only other airport handling regular commercial flights is Liepāja International Airport. \nairBaltic is the Latvian flag carrier airline and a low-cost carrier with hubs in all three Baltic States, but main base in Riga, Latvia.\n\nLatvian Railway's main network consists of 1,860 km of which 1,826 km is 1,520 mm Russian gauge railway of which 251 km are electrified, making it the longest railway network in the Baltic States. Latvia's railway network is currently incompatible with European standard gauge lines. However, Rail Baltica railway, linking Helsinki-Tallinn-Riga-Kaunas-Warsaw is under construction and is set to be completed in 2026.\n\nNational road network in Latvia totals 1675 km of main roads, 5473 km of regional roads and 13 064 km of local roads. Municipal roads in Latvia totals 30 439 km of roads and 8039 km of streets. The best known roads are A1 (European route E67), connecting Warsaw and Tallinn, as well as European route E22, connecting Ventspils and Terehova. In 2017 there were a total of 803,546 licensed vehicles in Latvia.\n\nLatvia has three big hydroelectric power stations in Pļaviņu HES (825MW), Rīgas HES (402 MW) and Ķeguma HES-2 (192 MW). In the recent years a couple of dozen of wind farms as well as biogas or biomass power stations of different scale have been built in Latvia.\n\nLatvia operates Inčukalns underground gas storage facility, one of the largest underground gas storage facilities in Europe and the only one in the Baltic states. Unique geological conditions at Inčukalns and other locations in Latvia are particularly suitable for underground gas storage.\n\nBiggest employers in Latvia in 2016:\nList of biggest companies by profit in Latvia in 2016:\n\nThe total fertility rate (TFR) in 2013 was estimated at 1.52 children born/woman, which is lower than the replacement rate of 2.1. In 2012, 45.0% of births were to unmarried women. The life expectancy in 2013 was estimated at 73.19 years (68.13 years male, 78.53 years female). As of 2015, Latvia is estimated to have the lowest male-to-female ratio in the world, at 0.85 males/female.\n\nLatvia's population has been multiethnic for centuries, though the demographics shifted dramatically in the 20th century due to the World Wars, the emigration and removal of Baltic Germans, the Holocaust, and occupation by the Soviet Union. According to the Russian Empire Census of 1897, Latvians formed 68.3% of the total population of 1.93 million; Russians accounted for 12%, Jews for 7.4%, Germans for 6.2%, and Poles for 3.4%.\n\nAs of March 2011, Latvians form about 62.1% of the population, while 26.9% are Russians, Belarusians 3.3%, Ukrainians 2.2%, Poles 2.2%, Lithuanians 1.2%, Jews 0.3%, Romani people 0.3%, Germans 0.1%, Estonians 0.1% and others 1.3%. 250 people identify as Livonians (Baltic Finnic people native to Latvia). There were 290,660 non-citizens living in Latvia or 14.1% of Latvian residents, mainly ethnic Russians who arrived after the occupation of 1940 and their descendants.\n\nIn some cities, e.g., Daugavpils and Rēzekne, ethnic Latvians constitute a minority of the total population. Despite the fact that the proportion of ethnic Latvians has been steadily increasing for more than a decade, ethnic Latvians also make up slightly less than a half of the population of the capital city of Latvia – Rīga.\n\nThe share of ethnic Latvians had fallen from 77% (1,467,035) in 1935 to 52% (1,387,757) in 1989. In 2011, there were even fewer Latvians than in 1989, though their share of the population was larger – 1,285,136 (62.1% of the population).\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe sole official language of Latvia is Latvian, which belongs to the Baltic language sub-group of the Balto-Slavic branch of the Indo-European language family. Another notable language of Latvia is the nearly extinct Livonian language of the Finnic branch of the Uralic language family, which enjoys protection by law; Latgalian – referred to as either a dialect or a distinct separate language of Latvian – is also formally protected by Latvian law but only as a historical variation of the Latvian language. Russian, which was widely spoken during the Soviet period, is still the most widely used minority language by far (about 34% speak it at home, including people who are not ethnically Russian).\nWhile it is now required that all school students learn Latvian, most schools also include English, Russian and German in their curricula. English and Russian are also widely accepted in Latvia, especially in business and tourism. there were 109 schools for minorities that use Russian as the language of instruction for 40% of subjects (the remaining 60% of subjects are taught in Latvian).\n\nOn 18 February 2012, Latvia held a constitutional referendum on whether to adopt Russian as a second official language. According to the Central Election Commission, 74.8% voted against, 24.9% voted for and the voter turnout was 71.1%.\n\nThe largest religion in Latvia is Christianity (79%), The largest groups were:\n\nIn the Eurobarometer Poll 2010, 38% of Latvian citizens responded that \"they believe there is a God\", while 48% answered that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 11% stated that \"they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force\".\n\nLutheranism was more prominent before the Soviet occupation, when it was a majority religion of ~60% due to strong historical links with the Nordic countries and influence of the Hansa, and Germany in general. Since then, Lutheranism has declined to a slightly greater extent than Roman Catholicism in all three Baltic states. The Evangelical Lutheran Church, with an estimated 600,000 members in 1956, was affected most adversely. An internal document of 18 March 1987, near the end of communist rule, spoke of an active membership that had shrunk to only 25,000 in Latvia, but the faith has since experienced a revival. The country's Orthodox Christians belong to the Latvian Orthodox Church, a semi-autonomous body within the Russian Orthodox Church. In 2011, there were 416 Jews and 319 Muslims living in Latvia.\n\nThere are more than 600 Latvian neopagans, \"Dievturi\" (The Godskeepers), whose religion is based on Latvian mythology. About 21% of the total population is not affiliated with a specific religion.\n\nUniversity of Latvia and Riga Technical University are two major universities in the country, both established on the basis of Riga Polytechnical Institute and located in Riga. Another two important universities, which were established on the base of State University of Latvia, are Latvia University of Life Sciences and Technologies (established in 1939 on the basis of the Faculty of Agriculture) and Riga Stradiņš University (established in 1950 on the basis of the Faculty of Medicine) – both nowadays cover a variety of different fields. The University of Daugavpils is another significant centre of education. Latvia closed 131 schools between 2006 and 2010, which is a 12.9% decline, and in the same period enrolment in educational institutions has fallen by over 54,000 people, a 10.3% decline.\n\nThe Latvian policy of science and technology set out the long term goal – transition from labor-consuming economy to knowledge-based economy. By 2020 the government aims at a 1.5% GDP funding for research and development, with half of the investments coming from the private sector. Latvia develop their scientific potential on the basis of the existing scientific traditions, particularly in organic chemistry, medical chemistry, genetic engineering, physics, materials science and information technologies. The highest number of inventions, which are patented both nationwide and abroad, are made in the branch of medical chemistry.\n\nThe Latvian healthcare system is a universal programme, largely funded through government taxation. It is among the lowest-ranked healthcare systems in Europe, due to excessive waiting times for treatment, insufficient access to the latest medicines, and other factors. There were 59 hospitals in Latvia in 2009, down from 94 in 2007, and 121 in 2006.\n\nTraditional Latvian folklore, especially the dance of the folk songs, dates back well over a thousand years. More than 1.2 million texts and 30,000 melodies of folk songs have been identified.\n\nBetween the 13th and 19th centuries, Baltic Germans, many of whom were originally of non-German ancestry but had been assimilated into German culture, formed the upper class. They developed distinct cultural heritage, characterised by both Latvian and German influences. It has survived in German Baltic families to this day, in spite of their dispersal to Germany, the United States, Canada and other countries in the early 20th century. However, most indigenous Latvians did not participate in this particular cultural life. Thus, the mostly peasant local pagan heritage was preserved, partly merging with Christian traditions. For example, one of the most popular celebrations is Jāņi, a pagan celebration of the summer solstice—which Latvians celebrate on the feast day of St. John the Baptist.\nIn the 19th century, Latvian nationalist movements emerged. They promoted Latvian culture and encouraged Latvians to take part in cultural activities. The 19th century and beginning of the 20th century is often regarded by Latvians as a classical era of Latvian culture. Posters show the influence of other European cultures, for example, works of artists such as the Baltic-German artist Bernhard Borchert and the French Raoul Dufy. With the onset of World War II, many Latvian artists and other members of the cultural elite fled the country yet continued to produce their work, largely for a Latvian émigré audience.\n\nThe Latvian Song and Dance Festival is an important event in Latvian culture and social life. It has been held since 1873, normally every five years. Approximately 30,000 performers altogether participate in the event. Folk songs and classical choir songs are sung, with emphasis on a cappella singing, though modern popular songs have recently been incorporated into the repertoire as well.\n\nAfter incorporation into the Soviet Union, Latvian artists and writers were forced to follow the socialist realism style of art. During the Soviet era, music became increasingly popular, with the most popular being songs from the 1980s. At this time, songs often made fun of the characteristics of Soviet life and were concerned about preserving Latvian identity. This aroused popular protests against the USSR and also gave rise to an increasing popularity of poetry. Since independence, theatre, scenography, choir music, and classical music have become the most notable branches of Latvian culture.\n\nDuring July 2014, Riga hosted the 8th World Choir Games as it played host to over 27,000 choristers representing over 450 choirs and over 70 countries. The festival is the biggest of its kind in the world and is held every two years in a different host city.\n\nLatvian cuisine typically consists of agricultural products, with meat featuring in most main meal dishes. Fish is commonly consumed due to Latvia's location on the Baltic Sea. Latvian cuisine has been influenced by the neighbouring countries. Common ingredients in Latvian recipes are found locally, such as potatoes, wheat, barley, cabbage, onions, eggs, and pork. Latvian food is generally quite fatty, and uses few spices.\n\nGrey peas and ham are generally considered as staple foods of Latvians. Sorrel soup is also consumed by Latvians. Rupjmaize is a dark bread made from rye, considered the national staple.\n\nIce hockey is usually considered the most popular sport in Latvia. Latvia has had many famous hockey stars like Helmut Balderis, Artūrs Irbe, Kārlis Skrastiņš and Sandis Ozoliņš and more recently Zemgus Girgensons, who the Latvian people have strongly supported in international and NHL play, expressed through the dedication of using the NHL's All Star Voting to bring Zemgus to number one in voting. Dinamo Riga is the country's strongest hockey club, playing in the Kontinental Hockey League. The national tournament is the Latvian Hockey Higher League, held since 1931. The 2006 IIHF World Championship was held in Riga.\n\nThe second most popular sport is basketball. Latvia has a long basketball tradition, as the Latvian national basketball team won the first ever EuroBasket in 1935 and silver medals in 1939, after losing the final to Lithuania by one point. Latvia has had many European basketball stars like Jānis Krūmiņš, Maigonis Valdmanis, Valdis Muižnieks, Valdis Valters, Igors Miglinieks, as well as the first Latvian NBA player Gundars Vētra. Andris Biedriņš is one of the most well-known Latvian basketball players, who played in the NBA for the Golden State Warriors and the Utah Jazz. Current NBA players include Kristaps Porziņģis, who plays for the New York Knicks, and Dāvis Bertāns, who plays for the San Antonio Spurs. Former Latvian basketball club ASK Riga won the Euroleague tournament three times in a row before becoming defunct. Currently, VEF Rīga, which competes in EuroCup, is the strongest professional basketball club in Latvia. BK Ventspils, which participates in EuroChallenge, is the second strongest basketball club in Latvia, previously winning LBL eight times and BBL in 2013. Latvia was one of the EuroBasket 2015 hosts.\n\nOther popular sports include football, floorball, tennis, volleyball, cycling, bobsleigh and skeleton. The Latvian national football team's only major FIFA tournament participation has been the 2004 UEFA European Championship.\n\nLatvia has participated successfully in both Winter and Summer Olympics. The most successful Olympic athlete in the history of independent Latvia has been Māris Štrombergs, who became a two-time Olympic champion in 2008 and 2012 at Men's BMX.\n\nIn 2017 Latvian boxer Mairis Briedis became the undisputed WBC cruiserweight world champion, the first and only boxer from Latvia and the Baltic states to hold any one of the four major titles in boxing.\n\nIn 2017 Latvian tennis player Jeļena Ostapenko won the 2017 French Open Women's singles title being the first unseeded player to do so in the open era.\n\nThe following are links to international rankings of Latvia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18906049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18906049", "title": "Liechtenstein wine", "text": "Liechtenstein wine\n\nThe Principality of Liechtenstein is a producer of wine. The country has a climate ideally suited for the cultivation of wine with mountain slopes facing southwest, calcareous soils and an average of 1,500 hours of sunshine a year. The hot dry wind during the summer months, known as the foehn aids cultivators by having a sweetening effect.\n\nThere are over 100 winegrowers in Liechtenstein which produce red and white wines in which despite the small size of the country can produce a significant variety. Liechtenstein is part of the European wine quality system and the international AOC classification.\n\nViniculture in Liechtenstein dates back to just over two thousand years. Growing began before Christ by a Celtic tribe that had settled in the area, and during Roman times production increased. After the Romans had been driven out of the area by the Alamanni, production virtually ceased, until the growth of Christianity in the 4th century, when monks encouraged the establishment of new vineyards. During the rule of Charlemagne (742–814), many of the municipalities and monasteries possessed their own vineyards. \n\nThe grape, Blauburgunder or Pinot noir, was introduced by Henri, duc de Rohan (1579–1638) who strongly encouraged the farmers of the Bündner Herrschaft to cultivate it.\n\nDuring the latter half of the 19th century, wine was Liechtenstein's main export alongside cattle. The wine industry in Liechtenstein reached an all-time peak in 1871 when were designated for wine production. After this point however, the opening of the Arlberg railway saw an increase in foreign competition and in the first half of the 20th century bad harvests and parasites caused the wine industry collapse. Attempts by the government to sustain the industry by introducing compulsory crop spraying after 1890 failed. However, although the industry had declined significantly, viniculture was still important enough in Vaduz that its coat of arms, established on 31 July 1932, pictured bunches of grapes. Since the 1970s there has been a regrowth of viniculture, but as of 2008 only is under cultivation.\n\nToday, the most popular white wines are Chardonnay, Riesling x Sylvaner, and Gewürztraminer, while red wines most produced are Blauburgunder, Zweigelt, and Blaufränkisch. The highest vineyard in the country is the Walser village of Triesenberg at 850 meters (2800 ft), which has seen some successful experimental growth of the French Léon Millot grape variety. Other notable brands are the Zweigelt Selektion Karlsberg Profundo and the FL Premier Brut 1996, a vintage sparkling wine, pressed from Rhine Riesling grapes.\n\nSeveral places in the country have wine tasting venues. Most notable is the \"Hofkellerei des regierenden Fürsten von Liechtenstein\", the wine cellars of the Prince of Liechtenstein.\n"}
{"id": "9085438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9085438", "title": "List of airports in the Comoros", "text": "List of airports in the Comoros\n\nList of airports in the Comoros, sorted by location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34104160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34104160", "title": "List of ambassadors of China to Benin", "text": "List of ambassadors of China to Benin\n\nThe People's Republic of China Ambassador to Benin is the highest representative of the People's Republic of China to Benin.\nThe Chinese ambassador in Cotonou is the official representative of the Government in Beijing to the Government of Benin.\n\n"}
{"id": "43245530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43245530", "title": "Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 2001", "text": "Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 2001\n\nLithuania participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 2001 in Copenhagen. SKAMP represented Lithuania with the song \"You Got Style\". They finished on 13th place with 35 points.\n\nSKAMP performed 8th in the night, following Sweden and preceding Latvia. SKAMP scored 35 points (highest 10 from Russia) placing Lithuania 13th out of 23 entries. The Lithuanian televote gave its 12 points to winner Estonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "28889750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28889750", "title": "M.A.D for Peace", "text": "M.A.D for Peace\n\nM.A.D for Peace is a not-for-profit organisation based in London, England, which has one main focus: communicating to the general public the importance of our individual responsibility in creating a world in which extreme conflict and its human consequences are ended.\n\nM.A.D (Making a Difference) for Peace was founded in 2007 by Dr Gill Hicks MBE FRSA, survivor of the 7 July 2005 London bombings, who lost both her legs that day. She discovered a great inner strength to not only fight for her life but to learn to walk again using prosthetic legs. Truly grateful to be alive, Hicks now devotes her time to making her life count, to really making a difference.\n\nAt M.A.D, peace is a daily activity, a daily consciousness. Drawing on their background in the arts and creative industries, Hicks and her co-director Claire Sawford devise projects which are participatory, encourage people to interact and together to ensure that peace becomes as instinctive an action as recycling and caring about the environment have become. Just one person’s positive actions within their own community, when multiplied, have a significant effect nationally and globally, and leave a ‘lasting footprint’.\n\nM.A.D’s work is focused in three key areas - Public Engagement, Education and Bridging Divides in Communities - at local, national and international level.\n\nEach M.A.D project embeds one or more of the five key messages from Gill’s own story of survival: Identity, The Brilliance of Humanity, Determination, Optimism and Choice.\nSpecific objectives are incorporated to meet the needs of each particular community.\n\nA simple and effective way that M.A.D get people involved is to ask people to see the ‘other’ point of view, encouraging greater understanding and the willingness to resolve conflict and division.\n\nM.A.D’s first Public Engagement project, WALKTALK (walktalk.org.uk), was devised to encourage people of all ages and from all walks of life – who might otherwise never have the opportunity to meet - to come together and walk and, most importantly, talk about their beliefs and focus on everything we have in common. Hicks and a small core team including two co-developer organisations from Yorkshire, and with the support of volunteers from the London Ambulance Service, walked over 250 miles from Millennium Square, Leeds, to Trafalgar Square, London, in summer 2008. Their enthusiasm and determination was matched by local communities, creating a lasting footprint in each community through which they passed.\n\nThe message with M.A.D’s second major project, launched in Trafalgar Square on 8 May 2009, was equally strong and simple, asking people to literally DRAW A LINE - whether a human chain with friends and colleagues, an intricate piece of artwork or a simple scribble on a sticky note stuck onto the fridge – and use this as a daily reminder that change and real peace starts from within. The project has been extended as part of M.A.D’s work with schools all over the world as Draw A Line: School to School.\n\nIn September 2010, M.A.D launched an international design competition with TafeSA, Technical Centre for Printing and Visual Communication in South Australia, entitled Playing for Peace, which is open to design students under the age of 21.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46818507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46818507", "title": "Malta in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2015", "text": "Malta in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2015\n\nMalta selected their Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2015 artist through a national selection on 11 July 2015, while their song was selected internally. The twenty acts competing to represent Malta were released on 26 June 2015. They performed covers or non-Eurovision candidate songs during the national final, and the winner's Junior Eurovision song was revealed at a later date. Destiny Chukunyere represented Malta in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2015 in Sofia, Bulgaria with the song, Not My Soul. Malta won the competition with a record of 185 points, breaking the previous record held by Spain in the 2004 contest.\n\nEach of the 20 participants sang a song of their own choice. After all of them had performed, the jury and televoting cast their votes - each juror had a 25% weighting in the final result (so 75% overall), with the televoting also having a 25% share. The contestants were ranked from 1-20, with 1 being the best. Destiny Chukunyere was announced as the winner of the national final.\n\nAt the running order draw which took place on 15 November 2015, Malta were drawn to perform fifteenth on 21 November 2015, following and preceding .\n\nThe following five members comprise the Maltese jury:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56221427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56221427", "title": "Ngazi Sport de Mirontsi", "text": "Ngazi Sport de Mirontsi\n\nNgazi Sport de Mirontsi is a football club from the Comoros based in Mirontsi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39678903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39678903", "title": "Nikon (Somalia)", "text": "Nikon (Somalia)\n\nNikon (alternatively spelled Nicon; Νίκων in Ancient Greek) was an ancient coastal emporium in the Horn of Africa. It was described in the 1st century CE Greco-Roman travelogue the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" as being situated in the vicinity of Port Dunford (Bur Gao) in the southern Jubaland region of present-day Somalia.\n\n"}
{"id": "14677800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14677800", "title": "Provincial Assembly of Bas-Congo", "text": "Provincial Assembly of Bas-Congo\n\nThe Provincial Assembly of Bas-Congo is the provincial legislature of Bas-Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nFrançois Kimasi Matuiku Basaula is the speaker of the assembly with Kisombe Kiaku Muisi being the vice-speaker.\n"}
{"id": "27509738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27509738", "title": "Riva (Belgariad and Malloreon)", "text": "Riva (Belgariad and Malloreon)\n\nRiva is a fictional kingdom in David Eddings' The Belgariad. It is located on the Isle of the Winds and is the customary meeting place of the Alorn Council.\n\nThe Isle of the Winds is a fairly rocky island, with pastures in the mountain valleys. There is only one city of any size, the capital of Riva, which is also the site of the only possible place to land a ship. There is a river coming from the mountains.\n\nThe kingdom was founded in 2000 A.C. by Riva Iron-grip at the breakup of Aloria. He constructed a city at the only beach on the Isle and married Beldaran, the daughter of Belgarath the Sorcerer. In 2018, he had a son named Daran. However, in 2038, Beldaran died, plunging Polgara, Daran, and Belgarath into mourning, and nearly incapacitating Riva.\n\nDaran became regent, and blamed the Rivan Deacon for his mother's death. The next year, he charged the deacon and the whole Bear-cult of witchcraft and exiled them to the remote northern isles. The Bear-cult would never return to the Isle. In 2040, Daran married a woman named Larana, and in 2045, had a son, whom he named Cherek. The celebration was marred, though, by the fact that Riva died the same day.\n\nThe events leading up to the assassination of Gorek the Wise began in 3097, with the signing of the Accords of Val Alorn, which gave merchants the ability to travel to Riva. In 4002, Salmissra sent assassins to the Isle to kill the king, and only the 6 year-old Prince Geran escaped alive. This began a war between the Alorns and the Nyissans, and it was discovered that Zedar was behind the assassination.\n\nPrince Geran went into hiding with Polgara, and Brand, the Warder of Riva, was put in charge. The next few centuries are quite peaceful, until the year 4850, when a total eclipse of the sun announces that Torak had come out of seclusion in Ashaba and taken control of Mallorea. These events worried the Alorns, who began to mobilize their armies. In 4865, the Angaraks invaded Drasnia, beginning the Angarak Invasion of the West.\n\nThe Rivans played a minor role for most of the war, seeing action only in the Drasnian campaign and the Battle of Vo Mimbre. At the battle, though, it was the Rivan Warder that killed Torak.\n\nAfter the war was over, the Rivans returned to the peace they had enjoyed for the last few centuries.\n\nIn 5369, the Orb of Aldur was stolen from Riva by Zedar. Belgarath immediately sets out to recover the Orb, bringing along his daughter Polgara and the heir to the throne of Riva, Garion. After the Orb was recovered in 5371, Garion assumed the throne and was renamed Belgarion. Shortly after his coronation, however, he disappeared to confront Torak, leaving his fiance, Ce'Nedra to lead the armies of the West against the Angaraks. After a battle at Thull Mardu and a duel with Torak, Garion returns home and rules Riva with Ce'Nedra.\n\nHowever, after a few years, someone attempted to assassinate his pregnant queen. The attempt failed, and Prince Geran II was born in 5380. Not long after, Brand, Warder of Riva, was murdered by the Bear-cult. A force of Rivans and Chereks then attacked the cult fortress of Jarviksholm, beginning the 5th war the Rivans had taken part in. During the battle, someone kidnapped Geran. The Alorn kings blamed the cult and attacked the city of Rheon. After the attack, it was revealed that a woman named Zandramas had been behind the abduction. He immediately pursued her across the planet, eventually killing her and rescuing his son. After this, peace was restored and Belgarion continues to rule the Isle to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "12222053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12222053", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Porto Novo", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Porto Novo\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Porto Novo () is a diocese located in the city of Porto Novo in the Ecclesiastical province of Cotonou in Benin. \n\n\nThe Cathedral of the diocese is Cathédrale Notre Dame de l’Immaculée Conception in Porto Novo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2438696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438696", "title": "Sahel drought", "text": "Sahel drought\n\nThe Sahel has long experienced a series of historic droughts, dating back to at least the 17th century. The Sahel region is a climate zone sandwiched between the African Savannah grasslands to the south and the Sahara desert to the north, across West and Central Africa. While the frequency of drought in the region is thought to have increased from the end of the 19th century, three long droughts have had dramatic environmental and societal effects upon the Sahel nations. Famine followed severe droughts in the 1910s, the 1940s, and the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, although a partial recovery occurred from 1975-80. The most recent drought occurred in 2012.\n\nWhile at least one particularly severe drought has been confirmed each century since the 17th century, the frequency and severity of recent Sahelian droughts stands out. Famine and dislocation on a massive scale—from 1968 to 1974 and again in the early and mid-1980s—was blamed on two spikes in the severity of the 1960-1980s drought period. From the late 1960s to early 1980s famine killed 100,000 people, left 750,000 dependent on food aid, and affected most of the Sahel's 50 million people. The economies, agriculture, livestock and human populations of much of Mauritania, Mali, Chad, Niger and Burkina Faso (known as Upper Volta during the time of the drought) were severely impacted. As disruptive as the droughts of the late 20th century were, evidence of past droughts recorded in Ghanaian lake sediments suggest that multi-decadal megadroughts were common in West Africa over the past 3,000 years and that several droughts lasted far longer and were far more severe.\n\nSince the 1980s, summer rainfall in the Sahel has been increasing; this has been associated with an increase in vegetation, forming what has been called a 'greening' of the Sahel. The observed increase in rainfall is accounted for by enhancements in the African easterly jet, which is known to induce wet anomalies. A 2011 study found that the positional shifts in the African easterly jet and African easterly waves accompanied the northward migration of the Sahel rainband.\n\nBecause the Sahel’s rainfall is heavily concentrated in a very small period of the year, the region has been prone to dislocation when droughts have occurred ever since agriculture developed around 5,000 years ago. The Sahel is marked by rainfalls of less than a year, almost all of which occurs in one continuous season, which can run from several weeks to four months.\n\nDespite this vulnerability, the history of drought and famine in the Sahel do not perfectly correlate. While modern scientific climate and rainfall studies have been able to identify trends and even specific periods of drought in the region, oral and written records over the last millennium do not record famine in all places at all times of drought. One 1997 study, in attempting to map long scale rainfall records to historical accounts of famine in Northern Nigeria, concluded that “the most disruptive historical famines occurred when the cumulative deficit of rainfall fell below 1.3 times the standard deviation of long-term mean annual rainfall for a particular place.” The 1982 to 1984 period, for instance, was particularly destructive to the pastoral Fula people of Senegal, Mali and Niger, and the Tuareg of northern Mali and Niger. The populations had not only suffered in the 1968 to 1974 period, but the inability of many to rebuild herds destroyed a decade earlier, along with factors as various as the shift of political power to settled populations with independence in the 1960s, Senegalese-Mauritanian border relations, and Niger's dependence upon falling world uranium prices coinciding in a destructive famine.\n\nSurviving contemporary records of climate in the Sahel begin with early Muslim travellers in the early Medieval Warm Period. These suggest that Sahel rainfall was relatively low in the 7th and 8th centuries and then increased substantially from about 800 AD. There was a decline in rainfall from about 1300 AD, but an increase again around 200 years later.\n\nAccording to a study of West African drought based on Ghanaian lake sediments (not eyewitness historical accounts) published in the journal \"Science\" in April 2009: \n“The most recent of these [multicentury droughts] occurred between 1400 and 1750 CE (550 to 200 yr B.P.), similar in timing to the Little Ice Age (LIA, 1400 to 1850 CE), a well-known interval when Northern Hemisphere temperatures were cooler than at present. In contrast with earlier studies, which reconstructed wetter conditions in East Africa during this period, evidence from Lake Bosumtwi supports more recent studies suggesting that this interval was dry. Evidence for LIA drought is not restricted to Africa, however. Records from throughout the tropics, including the western Pacific warm pool, the Arabian Sea, continental Asia, and tropical South America all show evidence for dry conditions during this time period.”.\nThe first major historically recorded drought in the Sahel occurred around 1640. Based on the reports of European travellers, a major drought after generally wet conditions also took place during the 1680s.\n\nCycles of several wet decades followed by a drought were to be repeated during the 18th century. Sahelian drought again killed hundreds of thousands of people in the 1740s and 1750s. The 1740s and 1750s was recorded in chronicles of what is today Northern Nigeria, Niger and Mali as the \"Great Famine\", the worst for at least 200 years prior. It caused massive dislocation of the Sahelian states of the time, but also disrupted the Trans Saharan trade routes to North Africa and Europe.\n\nAround 1790 dry conditions similar to those of the late 20th century set in and continued until around 1870. After that, a very wet period set in for around 25 years, followed by a return to drier conditions. While the drying begun around 1895 and caused its first large famine only in the early 20th century, the 1820s and 1830s saw a 12 to 15-year drought and regional instances of major famine from Senegal to Chad. Historical records suggest this drought caused a large-scale emigration from the Bornu Empire, contributing to its rapid decline in the 19th century. In what is now northern Senegal, the Imamate of Futa Toro was struck by a famine caused by the failure of 1833’s rainy season, leading to waves of famine until 1837.\n\nThe first rain gauges in the Sahel date from 1898 and they reveal that a major drought in the 1910s, accompanied by large-scale famine, was followed by wet conditions during the 1920s and 1930s, reaching a peak with the very wet year of 1936. The 1940s saw several minor droughts — notably in 1949 — but the 1950s were consistently wet, and expansion of agriculture to feed growing populations characterised this decade. Many have thought this contributed to the severity of the subsequent Sahel droughts.\n\nBurkina Faso, northern Nigeria, southern Niger, far northern Cameroon (near Lake Chad) and central Chad all struggled with dwindling rain fall from the 1960s.\n\nOn May 12 and 26, both Mauritania, the Sénégal River Area and neighbouring parts of both Senegal and Mali faced both a drought and famine.\n\nA literature review from the \"African Journal of Ecology\" summarized the environmental changes that species faced after the late 20th century droughts, some of which includes (but is not limited to) severe declines in biodiversity and increases in other disturbances, such as fires.\n\nThroughout June to August 2010, famine struck the Sahel. Niger’s crops failed to mature in the heat which resulted in famine. 350,000 faced starvation and 1,200,000 were at risk of famine. In Chad, the temperature reached on June 22 in Faya-Largeau, breaking a record set in 1961 at the same location. Niger tied its highest temperature record set in 1998, on also June 22, at in Bilma. That record was broken the next day, on June 23 when Bilma hit . The hottest temperature recorded in Sudan was reached on June 25, at in Dongola, breaking a record set in 1987. Niger reported diarrhoea, starvation, gastroenteritis, malnutrition and respiratory diseases kill and sicken many children July 14. The new military junta appealed for international food aid and has taken serious steps to calling overseas help since coming to office in February 2010. On July 26 the heat reached near-record levels over Chad and Niger.\n\nBy the middle of 2010, another drought in the western Sahel was predicted by several organisations for 2011 and 2012.\n\nOriginally it was believed that the drought in the Sahel primarily was caused by humans over-using natural resources in the region through overgrazing, deforestation and poor land management. In the late 1990s, climate model studies suggested that large scale climate changes were also triggers for the drought.\n\nBased on Senegal river cycles, precipitation cycles of various El Sahel stations which are related to Solar(89–120 years) Wolf-Gleissberg cycles, and on relations to Nile floods and Equatorial lake levels, Yousef and Ghilly in 2000 anticipated that there is a considerable probability that drought will occur El Sahel Zone in 2005±4 years. This forecast was correct as drought occurred in El Niger in 2005 and again in 2010.\n\nIn 2002, after the phenomenon of global dimming was discovered, a CSIRO study suggested that the drought was probably caused by air pollution generated in Eurasia and North America, which changed the properties of clouds over the Atlantic Ocean, disturbing the monsoons and shifting the tropical rains southwards.\n\nIn 2005, a series of climate modeling studies performed at NOAA / Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory indicated that the late 20th century Sahel drought was probably a climatic response to changing sea surface temperature patterns, and that it could be viewed as a combination of natural variability superimposed upon an anthropogenically forced regional drying trend. Using GFDL CM2.X, these climate model simulations indicated that the general late 20th century Sahel drying trend was attributable to human-induced factors; largely due to an increase in greenhouse gases and partly due to an increase in atmospheric aerosols. A study published in 2013, done at the University of Washington, suggests that atmospheric aerosols caused a downward shift in the Intertropical Convergence Zone. The shift, the study says, left normally rainy areas in Central Africa much drier. In (CO value of ≈860 ppm) Sahel rainfall could be reduced by up to 25% by year 2100, according to climate models.\n\nA 2006 study by NOAA scientists suggests that the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation plays a leading role. An AMO warm phase strengthens the summer rainfall over Sahel, while a cold phase reduces it. The AMO entered a warm phase in 1995 and, assuming a 70-year cycle (following peaks in ≈1880 and ≈1950), will peak around 2020. A 2009 study found further evidence for a link between the AMO and West African drought. Later, a 2013 study found that the East Atlantic (EA) mode also modulates Sahel summer rainfall and further indicated that operational climate forecasting was unable to capture this EA impact on the Sahel.\n\nThe recovery of Sahel drought since the 1990s, coined \"Sahel Greening\" by media, is accounted for by enhancements in both the tropical easterly jet and the African easterly jet, both of which are known to induce wet anomalies. Moreover, positional shifts in the African easterly jet and African easterly waves (AEWs) accompanied the northward migration of the Sahel rainband. Change in the African easterly jet and AEWs are coupled to a northward shift and amplification of convective activity.\n\nIn 1973, The United Nations Sahelian Office (UNSO) was created to address the problems of drought in the Sahel region following the West African Sahel drought of 1968-73. In the 1990s, the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) was adopted and UNSO became the United Nations Development Programme's Office to Combat Desertification and Drought, as its scope broadened to be global rather than only focused on Africa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18612384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18612384", "title": "TransAsia Gas International", "text": "TransAsia Gas International\n\nTransAsia Gas International LLC is an energy investment company based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is a subsidiary of Al-Ghurair Group. The company invest in oil and gas industry, power generation, and petrochemicals. It develops projects in Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa. Quantitatively, the key objective of Trans Asia Gas International is to produce over within the next few years(equivalent to 18 million tonnes) petroleum products. \n\nIn July 2008, TransAsia Gas International firmed up plans to relocate a $600 million refinery project from Italy to Pakistan. In Sri Lanka, it plans to relocate refinery to Hambantota in the south of the island. The company has invested also in Ra's Lanuf Refinery in Libya. It has been interested to participate in the Iran–Pakistan–India gas pipeline project.\n\nIn Pakistan, the company has licences to build two 130 megawatt power plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "18731012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18731012", "title": "Transcom WorldWide", "text": "Transcom WorldWide\n\nTranscom WorldWide AB is a \"global customer experience specialist\", i.e. a debt collection agency, providing customer care, sales, technical support and collections services through an extensive network of contact centers and work-at-home agents.\n\nThe company operates in Europe, North and South America, Asia and North Africa. Transcom employs 29,000 customer experience specialists at 50 contact centers across 21 countries, delivering services in 33 languages to international brands in various industry verticals. \n\nOn December 21, 2016, Altor announced a public cash offer to the shareholders of Transcom to transfer all of their shares in Transcom to Altor. At the expiry of the final acceptance period in March 2017, Altor owned over 98 percent of the shares and votes in Transcom. The last day of trading in the Transcom share was April 10, 2017. Altor has resolved to call for compulsory redemption of the remaining shares in the Company. \n\nMichael Weinreich was appointed President & CEO in 2017.\n\nTranscom WorldWide has a presence of 50 contact centers in addition to a large network of home agents in the following countries: Canada, Chile, Croatia, Estonia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Perú, Serbia, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, United Kingdom, and the United States\nOn January 19, 2016 Transcom announced that because of significant losses, it would be pulling out of Colombia and considering options for Chile & Peru.\n\nOn 27 August 2007, Transcom announced that it had acquired 100% of NuComm International for $90 million CAD (€63 million). An initial payment of $50 million CAD (€35 million) was paid with the remainder being subject to a two tier earn-out ending in December 2008. The earn-out was based on a multiple of operating profit, capped at a maximum of 9x EBIT for the complete deal.\n\nNuComm had revenues of $122 million CAD (€85 million) for the twelve months ended 31 July 2007. Réal Bergevin, the founder and CEO of NuComm, signed a contract to remain with the business under the new ownership.\n\nOn 6 March 2007, Transcom lost a court case implicating it as a source of email \"spam\". The court case corresponded with an increase in action against spammers in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "165302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165302", "title": "XM Satellite Radio", "text": "XM Satellite Radio\n\nXM Satellite Radio (XM) was one of the three satellite radio (SDARS) and online radio services in the United States and Canada, operated by Sirius XM Holdings. It provided pay-for-service radio, analogous to cable television. Its service included 73 different music channels, 39 news, sports, talk and entertainment channels, 21 regional traffic and weather channels and 23 play-by-play sports channels. XM channels were identified by Arbitron with the label \"XM\" (e.g., \"XM32\" for \"The Bridge\").\n\nThe company had its origins in the 1988 formation of the American Mobile Satellite Corporation (AMSC), a consortium of several organizations originally dedicated to satellite broadcasting of telephone, fax, and data signals. In 1992, AMSC established a unit called the American Mobile Radio Corporation dedicated to developing a satellite-based digital radio service; this was spun off as XM Satellite Radio Holdings, Inc. in 1999. The satellite service was officially launched on September 25, 2001.\n\nOn July 29, 2008, XM and former competitor Sirius Satellite Radio formally completed their merger, following U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approval, forming Sirius XM Radio, Inc. with XM Satellite Radio, Inc. as its subsidiary. On November 12, 2008, Sirius and XM began broadcasting with their new, combined channel lineups. On January 13, 2011, XM Satellite Radio, Inc. was dissolved as a separate entity and merged into Sirius XM Radio, Inc. Prior to its merger with Sirius, XM was the largest satellite radio company in the United States.\n\nWhile the satellite receiver radio service was its primary product, XM operated several audio and data services, and advertising.\n\nXM's primary business was satellite radio entertainment. XM carried music, news (both simulcast and syndicated programming), sports, talk radio, comedy (both stand-up and radio shows), and even radio drama. In addition, XM used to broadcast local weather and traffic conditions in its larger markets. The channel lineup was available on-line.\n\nTo receive satellite radio programming, a customer was required to purchase a receiver. Prices ranged from less than $50 to over $200. With a service commitment, it was possible to get a simple receiver for free. Monthly packages started at US$6.99/month but after adding multiple sports channels (which was mandatory to have at that time) the monthly subscription changed to US$14.49/month (changed since 2011 from US$12.95/month) with add-on \"family\" radios at US$8.99/month. Best-of-Sirius was available on US accounts for an additional monthly fee. Lifetime packages were also available (USA only). Channel quality was in one of two flavors, stereo music channels at 39 kbit/s and mono talk channels at 16 kbit/s using proprietary compression. Many subscribers have complained about the low quality of satellite radio sound. But providers have stuck with the plan for more channels instead of better quality. HD terrestrial digital radio, a competitor has always used this difference as a selling point.\n\nXM Radio Online (XMRO), XM's Internet radio product, offered many of XM's music stations and could be accessed from any Internet connected computer, or via the SIRIUS XM mobile app. Prior to March 11, 2009, XMRO was included with XM Radio subscriptions, or was available separately for $7.99/month to Internet-only subscribers.\n\nXM also provided data services such as weather information for pilots and weather spotters through its Sirius XM Weather & Emergency datacasting service. This up to the minute weather information could be displayed in the cockpit of an aircraft equipped with a satellite weather receiver. Unlike weather radar, which relies on the aircraft's own equipment, the satellite service could give a pilot information about weather anywhere in USA and Canada. The downside is that the various weather streams (radar, cloud coverage, lightning, forecast, TAF, FA, etc...) took around 15 minutes to complete the data download, meaning that the information can be somewhat out-of-date by the time it is shown. In-cockpit radar and lightning receivers returned truly realtime information, but they cost thousands of dollars, did not provide forecasts, nor did they provide complete weather reports. FAA Temporary Flight Restrictions (TFRs) were also available and shown. Certain aircraft had the XM radio service provided to the aircraft's audio system, which allowed passengers to listen to XM radio while flying.\n\nIn 2005, AirTran Airways began putting XM Satellite Radio on their aircraft, while in January 2006, JetBlue Airways added XM Radio to their aircraft. United Airlines started carrying prerecorded XM content in March 2006. Zipcar, an urban car-sharing service in the United States, initially installed XM receivers in all of their vehicles available for daily or hourly rental. However, citing uncertainty in the satellite radio market, Zipcar announced on May 1, 2007 that all XM radios would be removed from its fleet in the following months.\n\nIn contrast to its high-quality broadcasts, Sirius/XM's customer service has drawn fire from some state governments. In October 2010, Richard Cordray, Ohio's Attorney General, began investigating complaints regarding Sirius XM's policies on billing, customer solicitation as well as subscription renewals and cancellations. The company informed shareholders of the probe shortly thereafter. According to news reports, Arizona, Connecticut, Tennessee, Vermont, and the District of Columbia have expressed interest in participating in the inquiry.\n\nAccording to Reuters, \"The investigations come as Sirius XM, home to programs by Howard Stern and Oprah Winfrey, has found its footing and distanced itself from years of huge losses and questions about its business model.\"\n\nIn a report obtained in March 2011, The Better Business Bureau reported receiving over 4500 complaints against Sirius XM in the preceding 36 months, around half of which regarded the company's billing and collection practices.\nIn Missouri, some people registered on the state's do-not-call list have complained about receiving repeated calls from Sirius XM workers or agents after cancelling their subscriptions. Some Florida customers have reported being billed for automatic renewals of accounts they had canceled. Further, Sirius XM was sued in federal court by a customer accusing it of deceptively raising prices.\n\nThe report also stated that \"Sirius, in a statement, said it was cooperating with the investigations and that it believed its 'consumer-related practices comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations.'\"\n\n\nXM provided digital programming directly from two high-powered satellites in geostationary orbit above the equator: XM Rhythm at 85° west longitude and XM Blues at 115° west longitude in addition to a network of ground-based repeaters. The combination of two satellites and a ground-based repeater network was designed to provide gap-free coverage anywhere within the contiguous U.S., the southern tip of Alaska, and in the southern part of Canada. The signal could also be received in the Caribbean Islands and most of Mexico (reports have stated that areas north of Acapulco were able to receive a steady signal), however XM is not yet licensed for reception by paid subscribers living in these areas.\n\nThe original satellites, XM-1 (\"Rock\") and XM-2 (\"Roll\") suffered from a generic design fault on the Boeing 702 series of satellites (fogging of the solar panels), which means that their lifetimes were shortened to approximately six years instead of the design goal of 15 years. To compensate for this flaw, XM-3 (\"Rhythm\") was launched ahead of its planned schedule on February 28, 2005 and moved into XM-1's previous location of 85° WL. XM-1 was then moved to be co-located with XM-2 at 115° WL, where each satellite operated only one transponder (thus broadcasting half the bandwidth each) to conserve energy and cut the power consumption in half while XM-4 (\"Blues\") was readied for launch. Subsequently, XM launched ground-spare XM-4 (\"Blues\") ahead of schedule on October 30, 2006 into the 115° WL location to complete the satellite replacement program. On December 15, 2006 XM-1 was then powered down and drifted back to its original location at 85° WL, where it will remain as a backup to XM-3. XM-2 as well was powered down and remains as a backup to XM-4. This makes the current active satellites as XM-3 \"Rhythm\" and XM-4 \"Blues\" with two in-orbit spares.\nOn June 7, 2005, Space Systems/Loral announced that it had been awarded a contract for XM-5. XM-5 will feature two large unfurlable antennas. Sirius' Radiosat 5, also to be built by Loral, will have a similar single large antenna.\n\nIn American and Canadian metropolitan areas, XM and its Canadian licensee \"Canadian Satellite Radio\" (CSR) and operating as Sirius XM Canada, owned and operated a network of approximately 900 terrestrial repeater stations, meant to compensate for satellite signal blockage by buildings, tunnels, and bridges. In the United States XM owned and operated approximately 800 repeater sites covering 60 markets; in Canada CSR was installing approximately 80 to 100 repeaters that was planned to be owned and operated by CSR in the 16 largest Canadian cities. The actual number of repeater sites varies as the signal is regularly tested and monitored for optimal performance. The actual number of sites in the United States has dropped from the original 1,000 installed when the service first launched in 2001. The repeaters transmit in the same frequency band as the satellites. A typical city contains 20 or more terrestrial stations. Typically, the receiver owner is unaware when a terrestrial station is being used, unless he or she checks antenna information from the receiver being used. Due to a FCC filing in October 2006, the latest list of XM's US terrestrial repeater network was made available to the public. \n\nThe XM signal used 12.5 MHz of the S band: 2332.5 to 2345.0 MHz. XM provided 128 kilobits per second of its bandwidth to OnStar Corporation for use with XM-enabled GM vehicles, regardless of whether their owners are XM subscribers. American Honda also retained the right to some of the company's bandwidth to transmit messages to Acura vehicles via a service known as AcuraLink.\n\nXM NavTraffic, an optional service, transmitted coded traffic information directly to vehicle navigation systems using TMC technology.\n\nAudio channels on XM were digitally compressed using the CT-aacPlus (HE-AAC) codec from Coding Technologies for most channels, and the AMBE codec from Digital Voice Systems for some voice channels, including all of the Traffic and Weather channels.\n\nThe XM radio signal was broadcast on 6 separate radio carriers within the 12.5 MHz allocation. The entire content of the radio service, including both data and audio content, was represented by only two carriers. The other 4 carriers carried duplicates of the same content to achieve redundancy through signal diversity. The data on each carrier is encoded using time-delayed and error-correction schemes to enhance availability. Effectively the total radio spectrum used for content is a little over 4 MHz.\n\nEach two-carrier group broadcast 100 8-kilobit-per-second streams in approximately 4 MHz of radio spectrum. These streams were combined using a patented process to form a variable number of channels using a variety of bitrates. Bandwidth is separated into segments of 4-kilobit-per-second virtual \"streams\" which are combined to form audio and data \"channels\" of varying bitrates from 4 to 64 kilobits-per-second.\n\nXM preprocessed audio content using Neural Audio processors that are optimized for the aacPlus codec, including spectral band replication (SBR). Audio was stored digitally in Dalet audio library systems using an industry-standard MPEG-1 Layer II at 384 kbit/s, sometimes known as MUSICAM. The audio is further processed by the Neural Audio processors on the way to broadcast.\n\nIn the past, the Sirius XM Pops channel, which aired classical music, was broadcast in 5.1 surround sound audio quality. The technology, titled XM HD Surround, is the result of a partnership between XM and Neural Audio Corporation which provides content with six discrete channels of digital audio. The former XM Live channel also broadcast in this format for certain concerts and studio performances. XM manufacturing partners such as Denon, Onkyo, Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc., and Yamaha introduced home audio systems capable of playing XM HD Surround. It is not known if the XM HD Surround technology is used on the service in 2015.\n\nAs part of terrestrial radio giant Clear Channel Communications' early investment into XM in 1998, the companies entered into agreements which provided for certain programming and director designation arrangements as long as Clear Channel retained the full amount of its original investment in XM. One positive consequence of this was that XM had (and still has) exclusive programming rights to all Clear Channel content, including popular national shows like Coast to Coast AM, but the shows could only be broadcast inside the bandwidth controlled by Clear Channel. In June 2003, Clear Channel entered into a forward sales agreement relating to its ownership of XM. During the third quarter of 2005, Clear Channel and XM arbitrated the impact of this agreement on the Operational Assistance Agreement and the Director Designation Agreement. The Arbitration Panel decided that the Operational Assistance Agreement would remain in effect, including Clear Channel's right to receive a revenue share of commercial advertising on programming it provides to XM, but declined to enforce the Director Designation Agreement, which forced the Mays family members off the board of directors. Per the original agreement, Clear Channel had the right to program 409.6 kbit/s (or 10%) of XM bandwidth, requiring XM to include commercial advertising on the existing Nashville!, KISS, Mix, and Sunny (now The Music Summit). The amount of advertising on the music channels amounts up to 4 minutes per hour, similar to the amount of advertising XM included before going commercial free. Exceptions include syndicated music shows which carry network spots. Clear Channel advertising on XM is handled by its subsidiary, Premiere Radio Networks. Clear Channel also provided existing talk channel programming (Fox Sports Radio, Extreme XM, Talk Radio). Clear Channel also controlled America Right (formerly Buzz XM), but through a series of show swaps, most non-Clear Channel content was removed and programming control returned to XM Radio. Plans to introduce new regional based talk channels, which would have featured a regional 5 minute newscast for each area of the country, were canceled. Instead, Clear Channel chose to introduce other music and talk channels. Newer channels including ReachMD, America's Talk remain on the air. The Pink Channel, National Lampoon Comedy Radio, WSIX-FM, WLW, and Rock@Random were launched and later removed, and replaced by channels like Bollywood & Beyond, The Music Summit, and Sixx Sense, all of which are on the air today.\n\nSeen as a blow to XM's 100% commercial-free music channel status, XM Executive Vice President of Programming Eric Logan released a programming announcement to XM subscribers on the company's website that reiterated XM's commitment to commercial-free music while noting that XM still had the most commercial-free music and that more commercial-free music channels will be added in the near future to ensure that XM will still have more commercial-free music than competitor Sirius Satellite Radio. On April 17, 2006, XM launched US Country (XM17), Flight 26 (XM26), XM Hitlist (XM30) and Escape (XM78) to provide commercial free music in the formats of the Clear Channel programmed music channels which were going to begin airing commercials. In response, Sirius has advertised that they are the only satellite radio provider that has 100% commercial-free music channels. Both XM and Sirius air commercials on their news, talk, and sports channels.\n\nThe Clear Channel forward sales agreement with Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc was terminated on August 2, 2006. The termination resulted in Clear Channel Investments, Inc. paying Bear Stearns a total of $83.1 million, which was the value of Clear Channel's stake in XM. The accreted value of the debt was $92.9 million, and the fair value of the collar was an asset of $6.0 million, which resulted in a net gain of $3.8 million for Clear Channel.\n\nIn 2006, XM Satellite Radio was sued by the RIAA over XM's new portable devices the Inno and Helix. The RIAA claims these devices are equivalent to a downloading service, whereas XM contends the devices are protected under the 1992 Audio Home Recording Act. In July, XM requested that a federal judge dismiss the case. It should be noted that XM's subscribers can save only songs they hear on the radio and cannot request a specific song to be downloaded or program their radios to record specific artists. XM's portable devices allow the consumer to record a portion of their broadcast much like a VCR, DVR, or cassette player would allow. The content a subscriber records is available only while the subscriber still has an active account with XM Satellite Radio. Once the account is terminated, the recorded content will become inaccessible. Also, If a subscriber fails to listen to a total of 8 hours of programming a month, the recorded content will not be accessible. Recorded content can be accessed only on the portable device; it cannot be transferred to a home computer or separate digital music player.\n\nThe idea is not new: TimeTrax Technologies Corporation, led by CEO Elliott Frutkin, developed an application to record songs to MP3 and tag them with the artist and title information directly from the XM network. In 2005, XM attempted to thwart this practice by discontinuing the required XM PCR radio. TimeTrax responded by quickly rolling out adaptive interfaces to allow almost any XM subscriber to use their tuner to build music libraries directly from XM broadcasts. There is speculation that these fumbles by XM and its attitude towards the Time Trax technology may have been the warning shot of major troubles between the RIAA and XM.\n\nOn January 19, 2007, a district judge ruled that the RIAA could proceed with the lawsuit, rejecting XM's defense that the conduct alleged in the complaint—if proved by the RIAA—would be immune under the Audio Home Recording Act of 1991.\n\nAt the heart of the TimeTrax controversy was the XM PCR: a computer-controlled XM Receiver. Unlike the other receivers, which could be used in the car or home stereo, the XM PCR required a computer to run. A software application on the computer acted as the radio's controls and display, which led to a flurry of third party developers, who wanted to make a PCR replacement. Many of them received Cease and Desist letters from the XM company. Once the PCR was discontinued, for the reasons listed above, people found that the XM Direct, a receiver intended to be used in satellite-ready car stereos, can be connected to a computer with a very simple adapter cable. Some people have dubbed the entire kit, with receiver, cable, and software, the Direct PCR. While the original PCR software does not control the XM Direct receiver, several community developers have continued to develop PCR replacement software.\n\nOn February 19, 2007, XM announced a merger deal with Sirius Satellite Radio. The merger combined the two radio services and created a single Satellite Radio network in the United States and Canada.\n\nThe United States Department of Justice announced on March 24, 2008 that it had closed its investigation of the merger because it \"concluded that the evidence does not demonstrate that the proposed merger of XM and Sirius was likely to substantially lessen competition.\"\n\nOn June 16, 2008, FCC Chairman Kevin Martin told the Washington Post that he had decided to approve the XM-Sirius Merger after the companies agreed in the previous week to concessions intended to prevent the new company from raising prices or stifling competition. Martin issued an order to approve the merger, according to \"The Wall Street Journal\" – setting the stage for a final vote which could have occurred any time after his recommendation was circulated.\n\nThe XM-Sirius Merger gained its final governmental approval from the Federal Communications Commission on July 25, 2008, with Martin and commissioners Robert M. McDowell and deciding vote Deborah Taylor Tate voting in the affirmative. As a term of the merger, the combined company will be fined almost $20 million for failing to create and market interchangeable radios capable of receiving signals from both companies prior to the merger.\n\nXM developed a software application for use on the Apple iPhone and Apple iPod Touch devices that allowed XM subscribers to listen to its programming over the Apple devices. The Sirius XM iPhone App became available in the Apple iTunes Store on June 17, 2009.\n\nAll SiriusXM Internet Radio subscribers are able to download the application from the Apple iTunes App-Store for free. Listening on an iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch is included with some subscription packages, a separate fee is required with other packages.\n\nSiriusXM debuted a new web page to market the application.\n\nOn February 4, 2010, SiriusXM released an app for the Research In Motion BlackBerry line of smartphones, including the Storm (Series 9500), Bold (Series 9000 and 9700), Tour (Series 9600) and Curve (Series 8500 and 8900). Like the Apple iPhone/iPod Touch application, the BlackBerry app is free but requires a SiriusXM subscription.\n\nSiriusXM is also available for download on Android devices through Google Play.\n\nThe applications carry most of the XM music, talk, sports and entertainment programming, as well as some exclusive Internet-only content. The mobile applications also carry a select number of channels from the \"Best of SIRIUS/XM\" packages, dependent on the subscriber's subscription level.\n\nIn November 2004, Canadian Satellite Radio filed an application with the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission to bring the XM service to Canada. Along with Sirius Canada and the consortium of CHUM Limited and Astral Media, CSR was one of three applications for national subscription radio services submitted to the CRTC.\n\nOn June 16, 2005, the CRTC approved all three applications. The decisions were appealed to the Canadian federal cabinet by a number of broadcasting, labour, and arts and culture organizations, including the Friends of Canadian Broadcasting, CHUM Limited, and the National Campus and Community Radio Association. The groups objected to the satellite radio applicants' approach to and reduced levels of Canadian content and French-language programming, along with the exclusion of Canadian non-commercial broadcasting. After a lengthy debate, Cabinet rejected the appeals on September 9, 2005.\n\nXM's Canadian channels appeared on US receivers on November 17, 2005. On November 29, 2005, XM Canada officially launched.\n\n\n"}
