{"id": "21134838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21134838", "title": "Authority (sociology)", "text": "Authority (sociology)\n\nAuthority has been considered in sociological terms as indicating the legitimate or socially approved use of power. It is the legitimate power which one person or a group holds and exercises over another. The element of legitimacy is vital to the notion of authority and is the main means by which authority is distinguished from the more general concept of power. Power can be exerted by the use of force or violence. Authority, by contrast, depends on the acceptance by subordinates of the right of those above them to give them orders or directives.\n\nThe types of political authority were first defined by Max Weber in his essay \"Politics as a Vocation\" and his other writings in 1919-1920. In this essay he emphasized that the political authority that controlled the state can be composed of the following types of authority, or what is called in German, \"Herrschaft\".\n\nTraditional Authority: Power legitimized by respect for long-established cultural patterns.\n\nCharismatic Authority: Power legitimized by extraordinary personal abilities that inspire devotion and obedience.\n\nRational-Legal Authority: Also known as bureaucratic authority, is when power is legitimized by legally enacted rules and regulations such as governments.\n\nMax Weber, in his sociological and philosophical work, identified and distinguished three types of legitimate domination (\"Herrschaft\" in German, which generally means 'domination' or 'rule'), that have sometimes been rendered in English translation as types of authority, because domination is not seen as a political concept in the first place. Weber defined domination (authority) as the chance of commands being obeyed by a specifiable group of people. Legitimate authority is that which is recognized as legitimate and justified by both the ruler and the ruled.Legitimated rule results in what Weber called the monopoly over the use of coercive violence in a given territory. In the modern world, such authority is typically delegated to a police and court system.\n\nWeber divided legitimate authority into three types:\n\n\nHistory has witnessed several social movements or revolutions against a system of traditional or legal-rational authority started by Charismatic authorities. According to Weber, what distinguishes authority from coercion, force and power on the one hand, and leadership, persuasion and influence on the other hand, is legitimacy. Superiors, he states, feel that they have a right to issue commands; subordinates perceive an obligation to obey. Social scientists agree that authority is but one of several resources available to incumbents in formal positions. For example, a Head of State is dependent upon a similar nesting of authority. His legitimacy must be acknowledged, not just by citizens, but by those who control other valued resources: his immediate staff, his cabinet, military leaders and in the long run, the administration and political apparatus of the entire society.\n\nAuthority can be created expressly when public entities act publicly, using the same means to communicate the grant of authority to their agents that they use to communicate this to third parties, apparent authority describes the situation when a principal has placed restrictions on an agent that are not known to a third party, and restrictions on government agents are accomplished in the open, through laws and regulations. In this setting, all parties concerned is assumed or supposed to know the laws and regulations of government.\n\nRecently the concept of authority has also been discussed as a guiding principle in human–machine interaction design.\n\nAuthority and its attributes have been identified as of particular relevance to children as they regard their parents and teachers. The three attributes of authority have been described as \"status\", \"specialist skills\" or \"knowledge\", and \"social position\". Children consider the type of command, the characteristics of the authority figure, and the social context when making authority conclusions.\n\nAlthough children regard these three types of authority attributes, they firstly assess the legitimacy of the authority figure in question using the nature of the commands they give. For example, a teacher that does not appear to have legitimate power from the child’s perspective (perhaps because she or he cannot control the class well) will not be obeyed. Regarding parenting, authoritative parents who are warm and high in behavioural control but low in psychological control are more likely to be seen as having legitimate authority by the child, and will believe themselves that they have a duty to obey them and internalise their values.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26315010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26315010", "title": "Charter of novodamus", "text": "Charter of novodamus\n\nA charter of novodamus, in Scottish feudal land law, is a fresh grant of lands to the grantee. It is usually granted to make some change in the incidents of tenure of land already granted, or to resolve doubts about the grant or its terms.\n\n\nThe Oxford Companion to Law, ed David Walker, 1978, page 894\n"}
{"id": "57128609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57128609", "title": "China Internet Security Law", "text": "China Internet Security Law\n\nThe Cyber Security Law of the People's Republic of China, commonly referred to as the China Internet Security Law, was enacted to increase cybersecurity and national security, safeguard cyberspace sovereignty and public interest, protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, legal persons and other organizations and promote healthy economic and social development. \n\nThis law was enacted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on November 7, 2016 and was implemented on June 1, 2017. It requires network operators to store select data within China and allows Chinese authorities to conduct spot-checks on a company’s network operations.\n\nThe Chinese Ministry for Industry and Informatization(中华人民共和国工业和信息化部) justified the law as the means of pursuing the ‘Going Out’ strategy(走出去) they have persisted on ever since 1999. \n\nCybersecurity is recognized as the “Basic Law.” This puts the law on the top of the pyramid-structured legislation on cybersecurity.\nThe Law is an evolution of the previously existent cybersecurity rules and regulations from various levels and fields, assimilating them to create a structured law at the macro-level. The Law also offers principle norms on certain issues that are not immediately urgent, but are of definite long-term importance. These norms will serve as a legal reference when new issues arise.\n\nThe law created the principle of cyberspace sovereignty; defined the security obligations of internet products and services providers; detailed the internet service providers' security obligations; further perfected the rules of personal information protection; established a security system for key information infrastructure and instituted rules for the transnational transmission of data at critical information infrastructure.\n\nThe Cybersecurity Law is applicable to network operators and businesses in “critical sectors.” By critical sectors, China roughly divides the domestic businesses into Networking businesses that are involved in telecommunications, information services, energy transport, water, financial services, public services, and electronic government services.\n\nThese definitions mean the law is applicable to almost all businesses in China that manage their own email or other data networks. Network operators are expected, amongst other things, to: clarify cybersecurity responsibilities within their organization, take technical measures to safeguard network operations and prevent data leaks and theft; and report any cybersecurity incidents to both users of the network and the relevant implementing department for that sector.\n\nThe Law is composed of supportive subdivisions of regulations that specify the purpose of it. For instance, the CII Security Protection Regulations and Measures for Security Assessment of Cross-border Transfer of Personal Information and Important Data. However, the law is yet to be called fixed, since China’s government authorities are occupied with defining more contingent laws to better correspond the Cyber Security Law. By incorporating preexisting laws on VPN and data security into the Cyber Security Law, the Chinese government is reinforcing business law in China \n\nThe Cybersecurity Law also provides elaborate regulations and definitions on legal liability. For different types of illegal conduct, the Law sets a variety of punishments, such as fines, suspension for rectification, revocation of permits and business licenses, and others. The Law accordingly grant cybersecurity and administration authorities with rights and guidelines to carry out law enforcement on illegal acts.\n\nAlthough the censorship affects the whole nation, it does not affect China's special administrative regions such as Hong Kong and Macau. This is because these regions enjoy a high degree of autonomy, as specified in local laws and the \"One country, two systems\" principle.\n\nAlong with the Great Firewall, restrictions raises concerning voices, especially amongst foreign companies. Regarding the requirements for spot-checks and certifications, international law firms have warned that companies could be asked to provide source code, encryption, or other crucial information for review by the authorities, increasing the risk of this information being lost, passed on to local competitors, or used by the authorities themselves.\n\nThe law sparked complaints both internally and internationally due to its wording. Foreign companies and businesses in China expressed concerns that this law might impede future investments in China, because the law now requires them to \"store their data on Chinese-law regulated local servers, and cooperate with Chinese national security agencies if asked to,\" which could potentially compromise business secrets and sensitive information. \n\nTo comply with the law, for instance, Apple announced that it would transfer the operation of iCloud in Mainland China to a government-sponsored data company named Guizhou-Cloud Big Data. Meanwhile, online services, including Skype and WhatsApp, refused to store their data locally and were either banned from operating in China or restrained from further expansion.\n\nArticle 9 of the cybersecurity law states that “network operators … must obey social norms and commercial ethics, be honest and credible, perform obligations to protect network security, accept supervision from the government and public, and bear social responsibility.” Such vague provision is suspected to increase the government’s gourds to interpret and assert the need to intervene. Such interventions would include investigations which could disperse into government trade associations requesting spot-checks at the foreign firm. \n\nForeign firms are now placed between two choices: One, they could invest in new data servers in China to comply with data localization or incur new costs to hire a local server provider, such as Huawei, Tencent, or Alibaba, which have spent billions in recent years establishing domestic data centers as part of Beijing’s 12th Five-Year Plan (2011-2015). The substantial investment by these Chinese technology firms in recent years is one of the reasons critics of the new law believe it is partly designed to bolster the domestic Chinese data management and telecommunications industry against global competitors.\n\nHowever, an international firm in China reported to PGI that the intention of the law is not to prohibit foreign businesses from operating in China, nor is it to boost Chinese competitiveness. In fact, with regards to a study by Matthias Bauer and Hosuk Lee-Makiyama in 2015, data localization causes minor damage to economic growth due to inefficiencies that arise from data transfer processes and the duplication of data between several jurisdictions. As a matter of fact, the requirement for data localization should instead be seen as a legal move by Beijing — bringing data under Chinese jurisdiction will make it easier to prosecute entities seen as violating China’s internet laws.\n\nThe president of AmCham South China, Harley Seyedin claimed that foreign firms are facing mass concerns because it has greatly increased operating costs and has had a big impact on how business is done in China. More specifically, he stated that cyber security law continues to create “uncertainties within the investment community and it’s resulting in, at the minimum, postponement of some R&D investment.”\n\nThe law was widely criticized by social activists for limiting free expression. For example, the law explicitly requires most online services operating in China to collect and verify the identity of their users, and, when required to, surrender such information to law enforcement. Activists claimed that that this policy dissuades people from freely expressing their thoughts online.\n\n"}
{"id": "16803971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16803971", "title": "Clean tech law", "text": "Clean tech law\n\nClean Tech Law contemplates a diverse set of legal and policy issues related to the development and commercialization of clean technology. These issues range from conventional natural resources law to cutting-edge intellectual property issues related to synthetic genomics and advanced materials. Clean tech law could also address issues and conflicts surrounding the placement of such technologies (e.g., glare from solar panels).\n\nThe term clean tech, or cleantech, is short for clean technology. The abbreviated use of the term first appeared on October 10, 1990 in the Xinhua General News Service. Now, clean tech, is generally considered to include multiple advanced technologies in four economic sectors: energy, water, materials, and transportation. These technologies break down in the following categories:\n\n\nAs a discrete legal field, clean tech law is in its infancy and so vaguely defined that it focuses as much on more familiar areas like liability and ownership as it does business models and corporate strategies. The transactional side of clean tech law revolved around development and commercializing of new technologies in renewable energy, pollution, and other frontiers in the fight against climate change and protection of natural resources, and the creation of green jobs. In addition, the basic economics are inseparable from substantive social and ethical issues posed by these emerging technologies. The more traditional legal areas of clean technology law include intellectual property, patent law, licensing, litigation, and federal and state legislative, landuse and regulatory issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1847922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1847922", "title": "Commission on Elections (Philippines)", "text": "Commission on Elections (Philippines)\n\nThe Commission on Elections (), usually abbreviated as , is one of the three constitutional commissions of the Philippines. Its principal role is to enforce all laws and regulations relative to the conduct of elections in the Philippines.\n\nAccording to Article IX-C, Section 2 of the 1987 Constitution of the Philippines, the Commission on Elections shall exercise the following powers and functions:\n\nThe Commission on Elections () was created by a 1940 amendment to the 1935 Constitution of the Philippines. Before the creation of the , supervision over the conduct of elections was vested by law in the Executive Bureau under the Department of Interior and, later directly by the same Department. The Secretary of Interior saw to it that local authorities performed the ministerial duties assigned to them by the Election Code. He decides administrative questions concerning elections. The courts, however, exercised exclusive and final jurisdiction over questions affecting the right to vote as well as contested elections of local elective officials. Elections contests involving members of the National Assembly were judged solely by an Electoral Commission composed of three justices of the Supreme Court and six members of the National Assembly.\n\nIn view, however, of the close official ties between the President and the Secretary of Interior, there was always the danger of a partisan Secretary of the Interior exploiting his powers and influence to ensure the victory of his party at the polls. As a consequence, the Constitution was amended in 1940 to create an independent Commission on Elections, composed of a Chairman and two other members, to take over the functions of the Secretary of the Interior relative to the elections. but since the amendments could not be effective in time for the 1940 elections, the National Assembly, by Commonwealth Act No. 607, created a Commission on Elections, giving thereto the same powers which the Commission on Elections could have under the amended Constitution. The statutory Commission supervised the conduct of the December 10, 1940 local elections.\n\nThe constitutional amendment creating the Commission on Elections was finally approved on December 2, 1940. On June 21, 1941, Commonwealth Act No. 657 was enacted reorganizing the Commission on Elections as a constitutional entity. The members of the statutory Commission continued as members of the constitutional Commission.\n\nThe Chairman and Members of the Commission had a fixed term of nine years each – a member being replaced every three years except in the first Commission. They could be removed from office only by impeachment. They were provided with fixed salaries which could neither be increased nor diminished during their term of office. These were safeguards to ensure the independence of the Commission.\n\nThe administrative control of elections exercised by the Secretary of Interior was transferred to the Commission on Elections. The Commission was vested with the exclusive charge of enforcing and administering all laws relative to elections and power to decide all questions affecting elections, except those involving the right to vote, which were left to final judicial determination. The courts and electoral tribunals retained their original powers over election contests.\n\nThe 1973 Constitution enlarged the membership of the Commission from three to nine members but reduced their term of office from nine years to seven years. As in the 1935 Constitution, the Chairman and Commissioners have staggered terms of office and could be removed from office only by impeachment.\n\nFirst to serve in the Commission on Elections under the 1973 Constitution were former Senator Leonardo B. Perez, as Chairman, and Venacio S. Duque, Flores A. Bayot, Jose M. Mendoza, Fernando R. Veloso, Lininding Pangandaman, Venancio L. Yaneza and Casimiro R. Madarang, Jr. as Commissioners. Commissioner Pangandaman, the first Muslim Commissioner of the , was appointed Ambassador by President Ferdinand Marcos even before the expiration of his term. His unexpired term was taken over by Commissioner Hashim R. Abubakar.\n\nOn May 17, 1980, Chairman Perez (who was later appointed Minister on Political Affairs by President Marcos) and Commissioners Duque and Bayot, after completing their seven-years term, retired. Commissioner Santiago succeeded Perez, and the following were appointed Commissioners: Domingo C. Pabalete; Victorino A. Savellano; Jaime C. Opinion; Noli Sagadraca; Romeo Firme: Luis Lardizabal and Ide C. Tillah. With Commissioner Lardizabal the membership of the Commission was thus increased to eight, one short of the full complement of nine.\n\nUpon the retirement of Commissioners Firme, Tillah and Lardizabal on May 17, 1983 the Commission on Elections was composed of only five members. On March 21, 1983, two new members were appointed by President Marcos, namely: Froilan Bacungan and Ramon H. Felipe, Jr. With the retirement of Chairman Santiago and Commissioners Pabalete and Sagadraca on May 17, 1984, Savellano was appointed Chairman. Three new members were appointed on July 27, 1985, namely: Commissioners Quirino A. Marquinez, Mangontawar Guro and Mario D. Ortiz. On January 31, 1986 Commissioners Ruben C. Agpalo and Jaime Layosa were appointed to finally complete the required membership of nine.\n\nAfter the tumultuous February 7, 1986 snap elections and the People Power Revolution, Chairman Savellano and all the Commissioners of the tendered their courtesy resignations which, except those of Commissioners Bacungan and Felipe, were accepted by President Corazon C. Aquino.\n\nOn April 11, 1986 Commissioner Felipe was appointed Acting Chairman. On July 23, 1986 he took his oath of office as permanent Chairman, together with Commissioners Leopoldo Africa, Haydee Yorac, Andres Flores, Anacleto Badoy, and Dario Rama as members of the \"new\" Commission on Elections. On February 15, 1988 Hilario G. Davide, Jr., was appointed Chairman with Alfredo E. Abueg, Jr., Haydee B. Yorac, Leopoldo L. Africa, Andres R. Flores, Dario C. Rama and Magdara B. Dimaampao as Commissioners. Commissioner Haydee B. Yorac was appointed as Acting Chairman when Hilario G. Davide, Jr. was appointed Chairman of the Presidential Fact Finding Commission in December 1989, pursuant to Administrative Order No. 146. On June 6, 1991 Christian Monsod was appointed by President Aquino as Chairman of the Commission to serve the unexpired term of Davide.\n\nWhen Monsod retired on February 15, 1995 President Fidel V. Ramos appointed Court of Appeals Justice Bernardo Pardo as Chairman of the Commission. Pardo's term was cut short when he was appointed by President Joseph Estrada as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court in October 1998. Commissioner Luzviminda Tancangco was appointed Acting Chairman of the Commission.\n\nOn January 11, 1999 President Estrada appointed Sandiganbayan Justice Harriet Demetriou as Chairman of the Commission. After the events of January 2001 that led to the ouster of President Estrada from power, Demetriou tendered her courtesy resignation which was accepted by President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.\n\nOn February 19, 2001 President Arroyo appointed Justice Alfredo Benipayo as Chairman of the Commission. However, the Commission on Appointments did not confirm his appointment due to opposition of some Commissioners led by Luzviminda Tancangco. On June 5, 2002 President Arroyo appointed Metropolitan Manila Development Authority Chairman and former Mandaluyong City mayor Benjamin S. Abalos, Sr. to replace Benipayo. On January 26, 2008, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo appointed former Supreme Court Associate Justice Jose Melo, 77, to replace Chair Abalos. The United Opposition (Koalisyon ng Nagkakaisang Pilipino) opposed Melo's appointment. But Melo needs to be confirmed by the Commission on Appointments (CA), so Commissioner Romeo A. Brawner was appointed ad interim Acting Chairman on February 2, 2008 and will stay as Chairman until Melo is confirmed by the CA. On March 25, 2008, former Supreme Court justice Jose Melo was sworn in as new chairman of the Commission on Elections () by acting Chair Romeo A. Brawner. Melo's ad interim appointment (Congress is not in session) was sent by the Malacañan to the Commission on Appointments.\n\nOn May 29, 2008, Romeo A. Brawner died from a massive heart attack. Brawner, appointed to the to replace the controversial Virgilio Garcillano, was supposed to end his term on February 2, 2011. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, on July 2, 2008, appointed former Acting Judge (Br. 74, RTC, Malabon) Leonardo Leonida and retired Justice of the Court of Appeals Lucenito Tagle as Commissioners of the Commission on Elections. On November 7, 2008, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo has appointed Armando Velasco, as new election commissioner, and reappointed bypassed Commissioners Leonardo L. Leonida and Lucenito N. Tagle. Eduardo Ermita stated \"Velasco replaced commissioner and former Iligan City Judge Moslemen Macarambon, Jr. whose appointment had been bypassed several times by the Commission on Appointments (CA).\"\n\nOn September 27, 2007, Iloilo Vice Governor Rolex Suplico filed a 69-page impeachment complaint (3:00 p.m.) against Commission on Elections chairman Benjamin Abalos, Sr. before the House of Representatives of the Philippines regarding the ZTE national broadband network (NBN) deal. It was endorsed by Representatives Teofisto Guingona III of Bukidnon and Teodoro Casiño of Bayan Muna (People First), and Zamboanga City Representative Ma. Isabelle Climaco. Affidavits of Romulo Neri and Jose de Venecia III supported the complaint. On October 1, 2007, Chairman Benjamin Abalos, Sr. faced with an impending impeachment case resigned in a press conference. The Commission on Elections appointed Resurreccion Z. Borra as Acting Chairman. Mr. Abalos stated: \"\"I'm resigning... effective immediately,\" Mr. Abalos told a news conference. \"However, let not my detractors feast on this declaration. I'm not admitting guilt for any wrongdoing\".\" An impeachment complaint against Commission on Elections () chairman Benjamin Abalos Sr was formally filed before the House of Representatives after Romulo Neri, former chief of the National Economic Development Authority (Neda), accused Abalos of attempting to bribe him.\n\nThe Commission proper is the policy-making body composed of the Chairman and six Commissioners who must be natural-born citizens of the Philippines; at least thirty-five years of age at the time of their appointment; holders of a college degree, with a majority of them, including the Chairman, members of the Philippine Bar who have been engaged in the practice of law for at least ten years; and must not have been a candidate for any elective position in the immediate preceding elections. The Chairman and the Commissioners are appointed by the President, with the consent of the Commission on Appointments and hold office for seven years, without reappointment. The Chairman acts as the Presiding Officer and Chief Executive Officer of the Commission. Assisting the Commission are an executive director and deputies, 17 Regional Election Directors, Provincial Election Supervisors and Election Officers in cities and municipalities. has more than 15,000 employees.\n\nThe Commissioners exercise quasi-legislative and quasi-judicial functions either \"en banc\" or in division. They also perform such other functions as may be assigned by the Commission or the Chairman.\n\nIn August 2007, Nueva Vizcaya Rep. Carlos Padilla delivered a privilege speech alleging that Abalos brokered for the national broadband network (NBN) project. Padilla claimed that Abalos met with officials of the Chinese firm ZTE Corp., which got the US $329 million contract for the broadband project.\n\nAbalos denied brokering for the National Broadband Network project despite admitting he knows some officials in ZTE Corp. He admitted making four trips to China and playing golf there. He also admitted that ZTE officials, whom he says are his golf buddies, hosted and paid for the trips.\n\nJose de Venecia III, son of House Speaker Jose de Venecia Jr, alleged that Abalos offered him US$10 million to withdraw his proposal on the NBN project. De Venecia is a majority shareholder of Amsterdam Holdings Inc., a company that submitted an unsolicited proposal on the NBN project. De Venecia also claimed that Abalos asked for money from the ZTE Corp. officials.\n\nAbalos was mentioned in the \"Hello Garci\" tape, which refers to the alleged wiretapped conversations where vote rigging in the 2004 elections was discussed by, among others, a woman presumed to be President Arroyo and man presumed to be Commissioner Virgilio Garcillano.\n\nAbalos was the chair when the election body approved a P1.3-billion contract with the Mega Pacific Consortium for the purchase of automated counting machines, which the Supreme Court in January 2004 declared as void because of \"clear violation of law and jurisprudence\" and \"reckless disregard of 's own bidding rules and procedure.\"\n\nOn January 21, 2004, Pimentel filed criminal and administrative charges before the Ombudsman against Abalos and other commissioners in connection with the deal. Abalos described the charges as a \"demolition job.\"\n\nPimentel accused Abalos and the other commissioners of committing an act of impropriety when they and their wives traveled to Seoul, South Korea to visit the plant of the maker of the counting machines a few months before the bidding for the contract started. Pimentel said he received information that the Korean company paid for the plane tickets and hotel accommodations for the trip.\n\nHowever, Abalos claimed that the expenses for the trip were paid for out of the P1 million he won in a golf tournament in Wack Wack.\n\nOn September 27, 2006, the Ombudsman, in a resolution, absolved all respondents involved in the Mega Pacific controversy of all administrative and criminal liabilities \"for lack of probable cause.\" It also reversed its June 28 resolution which contained factual findings that can be used by the House of Representatives to initiate impeachment proceedings against Commissioner Resureccion Borra.\n\nJust six weeks before the general day of 9 May 2016, the website was hacked by a group called \"Anonymous Philippines\" on the night of 27 March 2016. Anonymous Philippines asked the poll body to implement security on Precinct Count Optical Scanners (PCOS) — automated voting machines. Another group calling itself \"LulzSec Pilipinas\", claimed to have hacked 's website, and posted its database on their Facebook account shortly after \"Anonymous Philippines\" compromised 's website. These exploits exposed voter data and the vulnerability of both voter registration data and the functionality of their website. LulzSec posts 3 mirror links on their Facebook account that can be downloaded. The incident was considered the biggest private leak data in the Philippine history and leaving millions of registered voters at risk.\n\nThe sensitive information — includes full name, complete address, and passport number — of at least 55-70 million Filipino registered voters have been leaked publicly on a website called \"wehaveyourdata\", which is allegedly created by hacker \"LulzSec Philippines\". Anyone who access this website can type their first, surname, and middle name of the compromised registered voters on the search bar provided and then the sensitive information will reveal. The website is now taken down by NBI on 22 April. COMELEC spokersperson James Jimenez warned the public not to use that website as this could be the phishing site. On 21 April, COMELEC apologizes for privacy attacks made by the hackers.\n\nThe National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) have been apprehended two suspected hackers within last two weeks of April 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "329935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329935", "title": "Constitutional Commission", "text": "Constitutional Commission\n\nMany entities have been called a Constitutional Commission with the general purpose of reviewing a constitution, or planning to create one.\n\n\nIn 1985 a Constitutional Commission was established (by the Hawke Labor government) to review the Australian Constitution and reported in 1988. It was seen as too partisan by many Liberals and the eventual referendum questions were not supported; leading to the lowest 'yes' vote count for any referendum in Australia (in 1988).\n\nThe federally initiated Rowell–Sirois Commission of 1937 to 1940 recommended (successfully) that the federal government take over unemployment insurance and pensions from the provinces.\n\nThe Quebec-initiated Royal Commission of Inquiry on Constitutional Problems of 1953 to 1956 argued (unsuccessfully) for the devolution of more powers to the Province of Quebec.\n\nThe federal Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism recommended (successfully) that Canada become officially bilingual and bicultural (later modified to \"multi\"cultural).\n\nOn January 1942, the Philippine Executive Commission or PEC was established as the temporary care-taker government of the Greater Manila area and eventually of the whole Philippines during the Japanese occupation of the country during World War II. The constitution existed until the Liberation of Manila in 1945.\n\nIn 1986, President Corazon Aquino dissolved the 1973 Constitution and called for its revision. From February 1986 to February 1987, the Philippines was run under a Provisionary Constitution called \"Freedom Constitution\" drafted by her executive secretary Joker Arroyo. On September 1986, the Constitutional Commission of 1986 was set up with all members appointed by Aquino. The revised Philippine Constitution was placed into a plebiscite with 76% affirmative votes and was approved.\n\nAn unrelated concept is a \"constitutional commission\" (a commission created by the constitution) as stated in the 1987 Constitution are governmental bodies that are independent of the three main branches of government. These are the Civil Service Commission, Commission on Audit, and the Commission on Elections. The 1987 Constitution does not place upon a constitutional commission the task of amending the constitution: these fall under the Constitutional Convention, the Constituent Assembly and the People's Initiative.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39248723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39248723", "title": "Contract failure", "text": "Contract failure\n\nContract failure describes a situation in which the consumer of a good or service is unable to evaluate its quality, thus incentivizing the producer to produce a lower quality good or service. Such behavior creates suboptimal economic conditions. Contract failure is one explanation for the existence of non-profit organizations, although even non-profits can fall victim to contract failure in the right situations. Contract failure is related to, but distinct from, market failure. Generally, non-profit organizations are more trusted because their corporate structures do not provide incentives to cheat.\n\nThe known cause of contract failure is called information asymmetry; when one party (the producer) has more information than the other party (the consumer) about a product or service. There is information inequality between the two parties. According to Young, there are three causes in which situations dealing with asymmetric information arise from, to include the following, 1) the quality of a product or service is too complex to be judged such as medical care or higher education; 2) the end consumer of the product or service cannot evaluate it him or herself such as a child in daycare or an elderly individual in a nursing home; and 3) the product or service is not consumed by the individual who purchased it, therefore the purchaser would never know if the producer delivered what was promised.\n\nWhen contract failure occurs, there is a suboptimal provision of public goods, which results in market failure. Arrow argues that nonprofits will step in and provide the necessary good or service in response to market failure. When markets potentially take advantage of the information asymmetry situation, nonprofits must protect the consumer.\n\nAccording to Hansmann, the “non-distribution constraint - prohibits the distribution of residual earnings to individuals who exercise control over the firm”. It prohibits those who have a vested interest in the organization from receiving the organization’s profit for personal gain. This constraint is a common characteristic of nonprofits, which creates less of an incentive for the organization to take advantage of the consumer’s lack of knowledge. The nonprofit has no reason to cheat the consumer out of quality or service delivery because the organization's individuals cannot benefit directly. Therefore, the consumer is more likely to trust a nonprofit organization providing services than to trust a for-profit organization because of the nonprofit’s non-distribution constraint. According to Easley and O'Hara, state law stipulates that the organizations day-to-day costs should be reasonable.\n"}
{"id": "22179456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22179456", "title": "Copyright abolition", "text": "Copyright abolition\n\nThe term \"copyright abolition movements\" refers to movements to abolish copyright, specifically those that espouse the repeal of the Statute of Anne and all subsequent law made in its support.\n\nMichele Boldrin and David K. Levine, economists at Washington University, have suggested that copyrights and patents are a net loss for the economy because of the way they reduce competition in the free market. They refer to copyrights and patents as intellectual monopolies, akin to industrial monopolies, and they advocate phasing out and eventually abolishing them.\n\n"}
{"id": "6036021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6036021", "title": "Court of Historical Review", "text": "Court of Historical Review\n\nThe Court of Historical Review (sometimes called the Court of Historical Review and Appeal) is a mock court in San Francisco, California. It has been convened on irregular intervals over several decades in order to decide questions of historical curiosity. The court's judgment is purely symbolic and has no legal or academic authority. The court has been presided over by a number of actual or retired judges, including U.S. District Court Judge Daniel Hanlon and San Francisco Municipal Court Judge George T. Choppelas.\n\nThough it is a mock court, a number of notable attorneys and civic figures have argued cases and appeared as \"witnesses\", sometimes in character as historical figures. The court's proceedings are described as colorful and are reported widely.\n\nThe most widely noted case before the Court of Historical Review was in 1983, when it determined that the fortune cookie was invented in San Francisco, not Los Angeles. Participants in the case \"wore yellow makeup and Celestial costumes and spoke in pidgin English as they presented the oral history underlying each side’s case\".\n\nLefty O'Doul, was not named to the Baseball Hall of Fame before his death in December 1969, and is still waiting to be recognized, an ongoing issue important to many fans of the game. The 76th meeting of the Court of Historical Review in 1997 heard spirited arguments from the opposition justifying his exclusion, and others supporting his admittance. In the end, Judge George T. Choppelas accepted criteria was sufficient for O'Doul's induction into the Hall of Fame. The verdict was passionately greeted with boos and cheers by both sides of the controversy.\n\nWhile many issues were of uncertain merit such as determining Elvis Presley was indeed dead; others had a much more serious tone, \"retrying\" controversial cases which already passed through actual courts of law. Shoeless Joe Jackson, though acquitted in 1921 over the 1919 Black Sox Scandal, could no longer play ball professionally nor be admitted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Stories about his presumed guilt continued to be distributed. In 1993, Jackson's innocence was affirmed by the Court of Historical Review. Some International Church of the Foursquare Gospel leaders used the Aimee Semple McPherson ruling in 1990 as a modern vindication by law professionals who re-examined the evidence; agreeing with the earlier grand jury inquiries that there was nothing substantial disproving their founder's 1926 kidnapping story. The mock court did not come to any decisive ruling on whether or not Bruno Hauptman was guilty of his charged crimes resulting in his execution, but recommended that the case be reopened. This prompted a reply from New Jersey authorities who stated they saw no reason to do so.\n\nA partial list of the verdicts of the court include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1364147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364147", "title": "Cuius est solum, eius est usque ad coelum et ad inferos", "text": "Cuius est solum, eius est usque ad coelum et ad inferos\n\nCuius est solum, eius est usque ad coelum et ad inferos (Latin for \"whoever's is the soil, it is theirs all the way to Heaven and all the way to Hell\") is a principle of property law, stating that property holders have rights not only to the plot of land itself, but also to the air above and (in the broader formulation) the ground below. The principle is often referred to in its abbreviated form as the ad coelum doctrine.\n\nIn modern law, this principle is still accepted in limited form, and the rights are divided into air rights above and subsurface rights below. Property title includes to the space immediately above and below the ground – preventing overhanging parts of neighboring buildings – but do not have rights to control flights far above the ground or in space. In dense urban areas, air rights may be transferable (see transferable development rights) to allow construction of new buildings over existing buildings.\n\nEarly versions of the maxim have been traced to the 13th-century Italian jurist Accursius, and is said to date in common law to the time of Edward I. It was more recently promulgated, in broad form (air above and ground below) by William Blackstone in his influential treatise \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" (1766).\n\nAs the name describes, the principle is that a person who owns a particular piece of land owns everything above and below it as well. Consequently, the owner could prosecute trespass against people who violated the border but never actually touched the soil. As with any other property rights, the owner can sell or lease it to others, or it may be taken or regulated by the state.\n\nFor example, suppose three people owned neighboring plots of land. The owners of the plots on the ends want to build a bridge over the center plot connecting their two properties. Even though the bridge would never touch the soil of the owner in the middle, the principle of \"cuius est solum\" would allow the middle owner to stop its construction or demand payment for the right to do so. By the same principle, a person who wants to mine under somebody's land would have to get permission from the owner to do so, even if the mine entrance was on neighboring land.\n\nThe phrase is credited to the glossator Accursius in the 13th Century. It has been suggested that the principle was brought to England by Accursius's son, Franciscus Accursius, who came to England with Edward I on the latter's return from the crusades. The principle was firmly established in common law by Edward Coke in \"Bury \"v.\" Pope\" (1587), which gives the first statement in English law of the principle, writing (Liber 1, section 1, page 4, section \"Terra\" (earth)):\n\nThe reporter's note to this case ascribes the maxim to the time of Edward I, which accords with the attribution to Accursius (father and son). Two other cases around 1600 also use the principle, and a number of 19th century cases also apply it.\n\nThe phrase appears in Blackstone's Commentaries, Book 2, Chapter 2, p. *18:\n\nThis formulation, though it omits the \"et ad inferos\" \"and to hell\" wording, includes that interpretation (\"and the center of the earth\"). Largely through the influence of Blackstone, this broader formulation became influential in American law. See Sweeney reference for various formulations of the principle in Anglo-American law.\n\nThe principle does not occur in classical Roman law. The phrase was used by Accursius in discussion of rights to have burial plots or tombs free from the interference of an overhanging building. In Coke's formulation, he cites three cases involving birds; the circa 1600 cases involve overhanging roofs, while the 19th century cases address diverse topics. The principle attracted increased interest with the development of air and space travel occasioning much discussion, particularly in the 1930s, and the development of space travel yielding further review of the ad coelum doctrine in the 1960s.\n\nIn American law, the formulation \"Ab orco usque ad coelum\" \"from Hades all the way to Heaven\" by Louis Brandeis is also found.\n\nThe steadfast \"ad coelum\" doctrine of property began to fall into disfavor with the advent of air and space travel:\nAfter the first hot-air balloon flight in 1783, people began to realize that strict \"ad coelum\" would undermine all air travel. Jurists occasionally invoked aerial-balloon trespass as an example of a trivial injury for which the law would not provide redress, even if the balloonists' drift with air currents were technically illegal under the \"ad coelum doctrine\", apparently most landowners agree that balloons drifting along with air currents unworthy of legal action.\n\nHowever, the rights of landowners to the airspace immediately over their land were affirmed in England and Wales in \"Kelsen v. Imperial Tobacco Co.\" where a sign erected on a building that overhung the plaintiff's property committed the tort of trespass, even though no harm or nuisance was caused by it. An injunction was granted to the landowner requiring the sign to be removed. The right of landowners to prevent the 'overflying' without their permission of the large crane jibs used in construction has also been affirmed. In \"Lord Bernstein of Leigh v Skyviews & General Ltd\" the Court noted that the \"ad coelum\" phrase was 'colourful', but said that it was well settled in the common law that a land owner had rights in the air immediately above the land, extending in particular to signs overhanging from adjacent properties. The right did not extend though to more than was 'necessary for the ordinary use and enjoyment of the land and structures upon it'. \n\nIn \"Star Energy Weald Basin Limited and another v Bocardo SA\" the UK Supreme Court (having heard argument that the principle was no longer relevant to land ownership) held that the principle \"... still has value in English law as encapsulating, in simple language, a proposition of law which has commanded general acceptance. It is an imperfect guide, as it has ceased to apply to the use of airspace above a height which may interfere with the ordinary user of land [\"cf Bernstein, above\"]...\" The Supreme Court nevertheless upheld the claimant's right to claim for trespass at depths of 250 - 400 metres below the surface, whilst acknowledging that subterranean ownership could not extend indefinitely. The decision has subsequently been restricted by section 43 of the Infrastructure Act 2015, which permits the exploitation of 'deep level land' (defined as land more than 300 metres below the surface) for certain purposes without liability for trespass. This was passed to facilitate 'fracking', and would have permitted some (though not all) of the intrusions in the \"Bocardo\" case.\n\nWithin the United States, the end indefinitely upward interpretation of the \"ad coelum\" doctrine came from a well-reasoned United States Supreme Court case \"United States v. Causby\" in 1946. In the \"Causby\" case:\n\nThe Causby case rejected the notion that property ownership extended upward 'indefinitely', while still recognizing a landowner retains complete domain over the lower altitudes above their property. The court noted that ad coelum \"had no meaning in the modern world\" ,while also holding that \"if the landowner is to have full enjoyment of the land, he must have exclusive control of the immediate reaches of the enveloping atmosphere. Otherwise buildings could not be erected, trees could not be planted, and even fences could not be run\" ...\"The fact that he does not occupy [the space] in a physical sense -- by the erection of buildings and the like -- is not material. As we have said, the flight of airplanes, which skim the surface but do not touch it, is as much an appropriation of the use of the land as a more conventional entry upon it.” id 264 . On remand, the Court of Claims established the landowner's property only extends upward to 365 feet, but not above. see Causby v U.S. court of claims (1948). \nWith the advent of space exploration, the upper limits to the \"ad coelum\" doctrine now include issues of national sovereignty. Strong arguments can be made for and against the altitude at which national sovereignty ceases and the rights of orbit or travel starts. In particular, the making of national territorial claims in outer space and on celestial bodies has been specifically proscribed by the 1967 Outer Space Treaty, which was, , ultimately ratified by all space-faring nations. Article II of the treaty notes that \"Outer space, including the moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation.\" The \"\"ad coelum\" doctrine-that property or sovereignty extends indefinable upward-is no longer accepted without limitations. This is not surprising since any claim to space based on national boundaries is based upon points defined on the surface of a rotating planet and therefore must have an upper boundary.\n\nThe \"ad infernum\"\" theory positing property ownership \"to the center of the Earth\" has also been eroded. A review of modern American jurisprudence demonstrates that the theory is more poetic hyperbole than binding law, and that broadly speaking, the deeper the disputed region, the less likely courts are to recognize that the surface owner holds subsurface title. Appraisal studies of subsurface projects such as subways, deep storm drainage tunnels, and particle colliders consistently conclude that such projects, built well below the area that the vast majority of surface property owners ever put to use, do not deprive the surface owners of any value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20726862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20726862", "title": "Digital citizen", "text": "Digital citizen\n\nA digital citizen refers to a person utilizing information technology (IT) in order to engage in society, politics and government. K. Mossberger, et al. define digital citizens as \"those who use the Internet regularly and effectively\". Digital citizens understand digital citizenship, which is the appropriate use of technology.\n\nPeople characterizing themselves as digital citizens often use IT extensively, creating blogs, using social networks, and participating in online journalism. Although digital citizenship potentially begins when any child, teen, and/or adult signs up for an email address, posts pictures online, uses e-commerce to buy merchandise online, and/or participates in \"any\" electronic function that is B2C or B2B, the process of becoming a digital citizen goes beyond simple Internet activity. In the framework of T.H. Marshall's perspective on citizenship's three traditions (liberalism, republicanism, and ascriptive hierarchy), digital citizenry can occur alongside the promotion of equal economic opportunity, as well as increased political participation and civic duty. Digital technology can lower the barriers to entry for participation as a citizen within society.\n\nHighly developed states possess the capacity to link their respective governments with digital sites. Such sites function in ways such as illuminating recent legislation, educating current and future policy objectives, lending agency toward political candidates, and/or allowing citizens to voice themselves in a political way. Likewise, the generation of these sites has been linked to increased voting advocacy. Lack of access toward becoming a digital citizen can be a serious drawback, since many elementary procedures such as tax report filing, birth registration, and use of Web sites to support candidates in political campaigns (E-democracy) etc. have been transferred to only be available via the Internet. Furthermore, many cultural and commercial entities only publicize information on web pages. Non-digital citizens will not be able to retrieve this information and this may lead to social isolation or economic stagnation. The gap between digital citizens and non-digital citizens is often referred to as the digital divide. Currently, the digital divide is a subject of academic debate as access to the Internet has increased, but the place in which the Internet is accessed (work, home, public library, etc.) has a significant effect on how such access will be utilized, if even in a manner related to citizenry. Recent scholarship has correlated the desire to be technologically proficient with greater belief in computer access equity, and thus, digital citizenship (Shelley, et al.).\n\nIn developing countries digital citizens are more sparse. They consist of the people in such countries who utilize technology to overcome their localized obstacles including development issues, corruption, and even military conflict. Examples of such citizens include users of Ushahidi during the 2007 disputed Kenyan election, and protesters in the Arab Spring movements who used media to document repression of protests.\n\nThe development of digital citizen participation can be divided into two main stages: information dissemination and citizen deliberation. Digital citizenship, or the ability to participate in society online, promotes social inclusion. Digital Citizenship examines three aspects of participation in society online: economic opportunity, democratic participation and inclusion in prevailing forms of communication.\n\nA recent survey revealed that teenagers and young adults spend more time on the Internet than watching TV. This has raised a number of concerns about how Internet use could impact cognitive abilities. According to a study by Wartella et al., the first of its kind, teens are concerned about how digital technologies may have an impact on their health.\nDigital youth can be generally viewed as the test market for the next generation's digital content and services. Sites such as Myspace and Facebook have come to the fore in sites where youth participate and engage with others on the Internet. However, due to the lack of popularity with MySpace in particular, more young people are turning to websites such as SnapChat, Instagram, and YouTube. In fact, in 2015, it was reported that teenagers spend up to 9 hours a day on the internet, with the vast majority of that time being spent on social media websites from mobile devices, contributing to the ease of access and availability to young people. Vast amounts of money are spent annually to research the demographic by hiring psychologists, sociologists and anthropologists in order to discover habits, values and fields of interest\nParticularly in the United States, \"Social media use has become so pervasive in the lives of American teens that having a presence on a social network is almost synonymous with being online; 95% of all teens ages 12-17 are now online and 80% of those online teens are users of social media sites\". However, movements such as these appear to benefit strictly those wishing to advocate for their business towards youth. The critical time when young people are developing their civic identities is between the ages 15–22. During this time they develop three attributes: civic literacy, civic skills and civic attachment that comprise civic engagement later reflected in political actions of their adult lives.\n\nAn open Internet as delegated by a state's government is necessary to instill a sense of trust, legitimacy, and participation in the state's citizenry. WikiLeaks represents an occurrence where particular political actors have criticized and taken citizen action toward revealing the government's unnecessary clandestine activity online. \"The benefit of transparency isn't just catching red-handed bastards. It's also about collaborating and coming together with a more engaged citizenry.\"\nThe Internet is a reading-intensive medium that may challenge full access and participation to youth. For youth to fully participate and realize their presence on the Internet, a quality level of reading comprehension is required. \"The average government Web site, for examples, requires an eleventh-grade level of reading comprehension, even though about half of the U.S. population reads at an eighth-grade level or lower\". So despite the Internet being a place irrespective of certain factors such as race, religion, and class, education plays a large part in a person's capacity to present themselves online in a formal manner conducive towards their citizenry. Concurrently, education also affects people's motivation to participate online.\n\nStudents in school should be encouraged to utilize technology with responsibility and Ethical Digital Citizenship strongly promoted. Education on harmful viruses, Trojans, and worms must be emphasized to protect resources. A student can be a successful Digital Citizen with the help of educators, parents, and school counselors.\n\nInternational OECD Guidelines state that \"personal data should be relevant to the purposes for which they are to be used, and to the extent necessary for those purposes should be accurate, complete, and kept up to date\". Also Article 8 prevents subjects to certain exceptions. Meaning that certain things cannot be published online revealing race, ethnicity, religion, political stance, health, and sex life. This is enforced generally by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)- but very generally. For example, the FTC did bring an action against Microsoft for preventing to properly protect their customers' personal information.\n\nThe FTC does play a significant role in protecting the digital citizen. However, individuals' public records are increasingly useful to the government and highly sought after. This is because this material can help the government detect a variety of crime such as fraud, drug distribution rings, terrorist cells, and so forth. This allows for an easier ability to properly profile a suspected criminal and keep an eye on them . Although there are a variety of ways to gather information on an individual through credit card history, employment history, and so on- the internet is becoming the most desirable information gatherer. The two aspects that have caused the internet to be a greater collector of information is the façade of security and amount of information that can be stored on the internet. Anonymity is proven to be very rare online as ISPs can keep track of an individual, account information, web surfing durations, and so forth.\n\nAccording to digitalcitizenship.net, the nine elements (or themes) of digital citizenship are:\n\nDigital Citizenship is a term used to define the appropriate and responsible use of technology among users. Three principles were developed by Mark Ribble to teach digital users how to responsibly use technology to become a digital citizen. The three principles include: respect, educate, and protect. Each principle contains three of the nine elements of digital citizenship. \n\nAccording to DigCit.us, the overlapping goals of digital citizenship education include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1866561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866561", "title": "Energy-plus-house", "text": "Energy-plus-house\n\nAn energy-plus house (also called: Plus-Energy House, Efficiency-Plus House) produces more energy from renewable energy sources, over the course of a year, than it imports from external sources. This is achieved using a combination of microgeneration technology and low-energy building techniques, such as: passive solar building design, insulation and careful site selection and placement. A reduction of modern conveniences can also contribute to energy savings, however many energy-plus houses are almost indistinguishable from a traditional home, preferring instead to use highly energy-efficient appliances, fixtures, etc., throughout the house.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39608445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39608445", "title": "Estate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc.", "text": "Estate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc.\n\nEstate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc., 472 U.S. 703 (1985), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that a state statute providing employees with an absolute right not to work on their chosen Sabbath violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nThe case concerned the constitutionality of a Connecticut state statute, which provided that \"[n]o person who states that a particular day of the week is observed as his Sabbath may be required by his employer to work on such day. An employee's refusal to work on his Sabbath shall not constitute grounds for his dismissal.\"\n\nDonald E. Thornton begin working as a store department manager for Caldor, Inc., a chain of retail stores, in 1975. At that time, Connecticut's blue laws required retail stores to close on Sunday, but the law was changed in 1977. As a result, Caldor required Thornton to work one Sunday out of each four. Thornton complied for several months but in 1978, he advised Caldor that he observed Sunday as his Sabbath and would no longer work on Sundays. Caldor told Thornton that it could not accommodate his unwillingness to work Sundays in his current job. It offered either to transfer him to a comparable management job at a store in Massachusetts that was closed on Sunday, or to transfer him to a non-management position in his current store at a lower salary. Although Thornton did not accept either suggestion, in 1980 Caldor transferred Thornton to a clerical position that was not assigned to work Sundays.\n\nThornton resigned and filed a complaint with a Connecticut state agency, asserting that Caldor had illegally discharged him for refusing to work on his Sabbath. Caldor responded that Thornton had not been \"discharged\" for purposes of the statute, and also contended that the statute was unconstitutional under the religion clauses of the United States and Connecticut Constitutions.\n\nThe agency sided with Thornton, ordering Caldor to reinstate Thornton to his prior position with back pay and benefits, and the Connecticut Superior Court affirmed the agency's determination. On appeal, however, the Connecticut Supreme Court reversed, holding that because the statute lacked a \"clear secular purpose\" and its \"primary effect\" was to confer a religious benefit, it was unconstitutional under the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nThornton sought review by the United States Supreme Court, which granted certiorari. While the case was pending, Thornton died, and his estate was substituted as a party. At argument, Thornton's estate was represented by Nathan Lewin, and Caldor by Paul Gewirtz.\n\nChief Justice Burger wrote the opinion of the Court, which was joined by seven other Justices. The Court affirmed the Connecticut Supreme Court's holding that the statute in question violated the First Amendment. In a relatively brief opinion, Burger explained that it was unconstitutional under the Establishment Clause for a state to require employers to relieve an employee of work on his or her Sabbath, as \"an absolute and unqualified right\" that applied \"no matter what burden or inconvenience this imposes on the employer or fellow workers.\" The Court concluded that \"[t]his unyielding weighting in favor of Sabbath observers over all other interests contravenes a fundamental purpose of the Religion Clauses.\"\n\nJustice O'Connor filed a three-paragraph concurring opinion, joined by Justice Marshall emphasizing that the Court's ruling was based on the \"special and absolute protection\" that the Connecticut statute provided to Sabbath observers. However, she concluded that more broadly worded religious accommodation requirements, such as those contained in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, would not be similarly invalid. In O'Connor's view, a statute requiring \"reasonable rather than absolute accommodation\" and applying to all religious beliefs and practices \"serves the valid secular purpose of securing employment opportunity to all groups in our pluralistic society.\"\n\nJustice Rehnquist dissented from the Court's judgment, but did not write an opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "13821304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13821304", "title": "European Association of Bodies and Public Organizations of Security and Defense", "text": "European Association of Bodies and Public Organizations of Security and Defense\n\nThe European Association of Bodies and Public Organizations of Security and Defense (known in French as \"Association Européenne des Corps et Organismes Publiques de Sécurité et de Défense\" or \"AE-COPSD\") is a non-profit, voluntary association of individuals who work in various law enforcement agencies and detachments across Europe. Its primary purpose is to organize and promote joint training and skills development activities for law enforcement professionals who work in police, corrections, military police, and other first responder units in various European nations.<br><br> They also organizes recreational events and competitions for its members. These include shooting competitions where members are encouraged to compete in various national marksmanship competitions. In addition to encouraging participation in international (European) sports competitions, they also organizes events where individuals from member agencies compete for the AE-COPSD Sports badge. <br><br>Some of the more notable and participated events are the paratrooper events were the host country has a certified military jump master at the jump zone. This is because many members are also in their countries military reserve. They can be awarded Jump Wings from the host country and also the AE-COPSD Paratroopers Wings.<br><br>AE-COPSD also awards the AE-COPSD European Police Cross of Honor. This medal can be awarded to any law enforcement official from any country who, in the \"opinion\" of AE-COPSD; shows the highest standards of Loyalty, Integrity & Courage. The Cross of Honor is not limited to professionals from Europe. \n"}
{"id": "13422600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13422600", "title": "Food sampling", "text": "Food sampling\n\nFood sampling is a process used to check that a food is safe and that it does not contain harmful contaminants, or that it contains only permitted additives at acceptable levels, or that it contains the right levels of key ingredients and its label declarations are correct, or to know the levels of nutrients present.\n\nA food sample is carried out by subjecting the product to physical analysis. Analysis may be undertaken by or on behalf of a manufacturer regarding their own product, or for official food law enforcement or control purposes, or for research or public information.\n\nTo undertake any analysis, unless the whole amount of food to be considered is very small so that the food can be used for testing in its entirety, it is usually necessary for a portion of it to be taken (e.g. a small quantity from a full production batch, or a portion of what is on sale in a shop) – this process is known as food sampling. \n\nIn most cases with food to be analysed there are two levels of sampling – the first being selection of a portion from the whole, which is then submitted to a laboratory for testing, and the second being the laboratory’s taking of the individual amounts necessary for individual tests that may be applied. It is the former that is ‘food sampling’: the latter is analytical laboratory ‘sub-sampling’, often relying upon initial homogenisation of the entire submitted sample. \n\nWhere it is intended that the results of any analysis to relate to the food as a whole it is crucially important that the sample is representative of that whole – and the results of any analysis can only be meaningful if the sampling is undertaken effectively. This is true whether the ‘whole’ is a manufacturer’s entire production batch, or where it is a single item but too large to all be used for the test. \n\nFactors relevant in considering the representativeness of a sample include the homogeneity of the food, the relative sizes of the sample to be taken and the whole, the potential degree of variation of the parameter(s) in question through the whole, and the significance and intended use of the analytical result.\n\nFood manufacturers and producers would need to satisfy themselves that any sample taken for analysis is sufficiently representative of the food for the analytical result to be meaningful. This is true whether the data are to be used as the basis of labelling declarations, assurance of compliance with legislative or other standards, monitoring of production as part of HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points), or for routine quality control.\n\nIn the United Kingdom although various guidance is available, either from manufacturers’ associations or from sources of standards such as British Standards Institution (such as British Standard BS6001), some of which may be relevant to certain food types. It is largely down to manufacturers to make their own evaluations of need and suitability. This must be translated into an assessment both of sample portion size and number, and the frequency of taking samples.\n\nTo ensure food safety and quality, some food samples which are perishable require certain tests and analyses. \nThe following tests and analyses can be conducted:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, enforcement is under the Food Safety Act 1990. Food sampling is undertaken primarily by local authorities and port health authorities for submission to public analysts for analysis. Much of the legislation relates to food as supplied to a consumer, meaning that every portion of a size of perishable food and foods at risk as may be supplied to a consumer has to comply, so that in such cases the sample submitted for analysis could simply be an entire consumer-sized portion. There are exceptions, however, such as the sampling of nut products for the presence of aflatoxins, which stipulate a primary sample size related to the size of the consignment – with associated requirements for initial homogenisation to produce a smaller sample to be sent for analysis.\n\nThe Food Safety Act 1990 affords a right for defence analysis, and for referee analysis in case of disputed analytical results, by stipulating that except where to do so would prevent effective analysis the sample must be divided into three parts. The UK Food Standards Agency provides supplementary guidance to the enforcement authorities to assist with the sampling process and associated decisions by sampling officers.\n\nThere is no set frequency or rate for the sampling of food for law enforcement in the UK. Between the 1930s and 1990s there had been a guideline minimum rate for sampling for chemical analysis (not including samples for microbiological examination) of 2.5 samples per annum per 1000 head of population, however that was an arbitrary figure and more recent thinking suggested that the selection of a frequency for sampling should be based on risk. In this context risk includes all 'consumer protection' issues such as pecuniary disadvantage from substandard or counterfeit products, as well as risk to health. The Association of Public Analysts was commissioned by the Food Standards Agency to look into this, culminating in a scheme for \"Risk Based Sampling\", though it has not yet been adopted by the enforcement authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "6338623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6338623", "title": "Franchise tax", "text": "Franchise tax\n\nA franchise tax is a government levy (tax) charged by some US states to certain business organizations such as corporations and partnerships with a nexus in the state. A franchise tax is not based on income. Rather, the typical franchise tax calculation is based on the net worth of or capital held by the entity. The franchise tax effectively charges corporations for the privilege of doing business in the state.\n\nWhether or not a business must pay a franchise tax to a state in which it does business can cause some confusion. Some states report using both the economic and physical presence tests, and in some states, there are no written, public interpretations of their test at all.\n\nThe physical presence test is based on Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, ( 504 U.S. 298 (1992)), a United States Supreme Court ruling concerning use tax. Quill Corporation is an office supply retailer. Quill had no physical presence in North Dakota (neither a sales force, nor a retail outlet), but it had a licensed computer software program that some of its North Dakota customers used for checking Quill's current inventories and placing orders directly. North Dakota attempted to impose a use tax on Quill, which was struck down by the Supreme Court, because Quill had no physical presence in North Dakota.\n\nThe \"Quill\" physical presence test is used by some states to determine whether or not a company must pay franchise tax. Delaware, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Texas report using the physical presence test.\n\nMany states apply an \"economic presence\" test to determine whether a business will be subject to state sales or franchise tax. This test, which seems to contradict Quill, implied that States have the right to tax or \"nexus\" solely on the basis that a company has sales or otherwise derives an economic benefit from activities within their borders.\n\nAbout half the U.S. states do not impose a franchise tax. For states that have a franchise tax, the amount is often either a flat fee or based on the size of the business's total holdings.\n\nStates with higher corporate income taxes usually have low or no franchise taxes and vice versa.\n\nThe state of Delaware has a significant franchise tax. Other states have either nominal taxes or none at all. \n\n"}
{"id": "25473051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25473051", "title": "Goodwin Liu", "text": "Goodwin Liu\n\nGoodwin Hon Liu (born October 19, 1970) is an American lawyer, educator and an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of California. Before his appointment by California Governor Jerry Brown, Liu was Associate Dean and Professor of Law at the University of California, Berkeley School of Law (Boalt Hall). Liu has been recognized for his writing on constitutional law, education policy, civil rights, and the Supreme Court.\n\nOn February 24, 2010, President Barack Obama nominated Liu to fill a vacancy on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. For more than a year, Liu's nomination languished, amid significant opposition from Republicans in the U.S. Senate. On May 19, 2011, the Senate rejected cloture on Liu's nomination in a 52–43 vote, and on May 25, 2011, Liu informed President Obama that he was withdrawing his name from consideration to the seat on the Ninth Circuit, telling the president that \"With no possibility of an up-or-down vote on the horizon, my family and I have decided that it is time for us to regain the ability to make plans for the future.\"\n\nOn July 26, 2011, Governor Jerry Brown nominated Liu to a seat on the Supreme Court of California, succeeding Associate Justice Carlos R. Moreno. Three days later, President Obama formally notified the Senate that he was withdrawing Liu's nomination for the federal Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. He was sworn into the California Supreme Court on September 1, 2011.\n\nLiu was born in Augusta, Georgia, of Taiwanese descent, the second son of Wen-Pen and Yang-Ching Liu, both of whom came to the United States from Taiwan in the late 1960s, when foreign doctors were being recruited to work in underserved areas. Liu and his family moved to Clewiston, Florida, shortly after his birth and then in 1977, they relocated to Sacramento, California, where Liu graduated from Rio Americano High School. He earned a B.S. in biology at Stanford University. While there he was active in student politics as a member of the People's Platform, serving on the Council of Presidents of the ASSU. He attended Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship and earned a M. Phil in philosophy and physiology. Liu received his J.D. from Yale Law School.\n\nLiu initially worked as an appellate litigator at O'Melveny & Myers in Washington. He later clerked for Judge David S. Tatel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and then for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, where among other things, he contributed a draft to her dissent in \"Bush v. Gore\". He also served as special assistant to the deputy secretary of the U.S. Department of Education and as senior program officer for higher education at the Corporation for National Service (AmeriCorps). He is also a former Chair of the Board of Directors of the American Constitution Society.\n\nHe is currently a professor at University of California, Berkeley. He was elected to the American Law Institute in May 2008 and was elected to the ALI Council in May 2013. He currently serves as the chair of the ALI's committee on the Young Scholars Medal. He serves on the boards of the National Women's Law Center and the Alliance for Excellent Education.\n\nHe took a job at Boalt Hall at the UC Berkeley, where he became Associate Dean and Professor of Law. In 2009 Liu was awarded the UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award.\n\nOn February 24, 2010, President Obama nominated Liu to a new judgeship seat on the Ninth Circuit created by the Court Security Improvement Act of 2007; which became effective on January 21, 2009. His nomination was filibustered by Republicans in the Senate and expired with the sine die adjournment of the 111th Congress. He was renominated to the same position on the first full day of the 112th Congress. On April 7, 2011 the Senate Judiciary Committee reported his nomination to the floor of the Senate by a 10–8 vote.\n\nHowever, Liu's nomination was harshly criticized by Senate Republicans for allegedly failing to disclose 117 of his more controversial writings and speeches. On April 6, 2010, Liu submitted the 117 requested items to the committee as a supplemental to the original questionnaire. The committee hearing had been postponed twice particularly due to Republican opposition to Liu's judicial qualifications and record. Liu defended his writings as a scholar by saying that \"there's a clear difference between what things people write as scholars and how one would approach the role of a judge\". On April 6, 2010, a letter was sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy by the seven committee Republicans to request a third postponement, which was subsequently rejected. Liu was also criticized for lack of trial-level experience. Prior to his nomination, Liu had not served as a judge and had argued only one case at the appellate court level as a lawyer.\n\nLiu's criticism of Chief Justice John Roberts and especially his statement during Samuel Alito's Supreme Court nomination \"Judge Alito's record envisions an America where police may shoot and kill an unarmed boy to stop him from running away with a stolen purse; where federal agents may point guns at ordinary citizens during a raid, even after no sign of resistance, where a black man may be sentenced to death by an all-white jury for killing a white man, absent [an] analysis showing discrimination, is not the America we know. Nor is it the America we aspire to be\" was targeted by Senate Republicans as proof of his lack of judicial temperament and partisanship. Liu later apologized and said that his words were \"unduly harsh\".\n\nOn May 17, 2011, Senator Harry Reid filed a cloture motion on Liu's nomination. On May 19, 2011, the Senate rejected cloture in a mostly party-line vote of 52–43, with all but one Democrat (Ben Nelson) voting in favor of cloture and all but one Republican (Lisa Murkowski) voting against. He became the first Obama judicial nominee to be successfully filibustered in the Senate. With the makeup of the Senate unlikely to change until after the 2012 election, Liu withdrew his name from consideration on May 25, 2011. On July 29, 2011, three days after California Governor Jerry Brown nominated Liu to a seat on the Supreme Court of California, President Obama formally notified the Senate that he was withdrawing Liu's nomination for the 9th Circuit. In a talk before The City Club of Cleveland on February 22, 2013, Liu commented that the confirmation process is \"inherently a political process\" and \"the Constitution was designed to make it a political process.\" He noted, however, that the problem with the confirmation process is that it has become transformed into requiring 60 votes as opposed to a bare majority, which was not part of the Constitutional design.\n\nOn July 26, 2011, California Gov. Jerry Brown nominated Liu to a seat on the Supreme Court of California. In submitting his nomination, Brown said that \"[Liu] is a nationally recognized expert on constitutional law and has experience in private practice, [in] government service and in the academic community. I know that he will be an outstanding addition to our state supreme court.\" Liu responded to his nomination with a prepared statement: \"I'm deeply honored by Governor Brown's nomination and look forward to the opportunity to serve the people of California on our state's highest court.\"\n\nOn August 30, the state bar commission that screens all nominees gave Liu a \"unanimously well qualified\" rating, describing him as \"brilliant, impartial, and with a work ethic second to none ... [h]e has an unwavering commitment to equal access to justice and will treat all litigants fairly, without regard to wealth or position in society.\" He was confirmed unanimously the next day by Chief Justice Tani Cantil-Sakauye, state Attorney General Kamala Harris, and Presiding Justice Joan Dempsey-Klein, the senior-most presiding justice serving on the California Court of Appeal. Ten witnesses testified in favor of his nomination and none testified against.\n\nLiu was sworn in on September 1, 2011, and took the bench on September 6, sitting on a procedural issue regarding the controversial \"Perry v. Schwarzenegger\" case.\n\nWhile the other justices employ five permanent staff as law clerks, Justice Liu has returned to the traditional use of recent law school graduates as one-year clerks.\n\nIn his first year on the bench, Liu authored six decisions, all of them unanimous.\n\n\nHe also authored the majority opinion in \"Apple v. Superior Court\", where he ruled that online retailers can continue asking for credit card holder's information, such as telephone numbers and home addresses, when completing a transaction with a credit card. The complaint arose from the Song-Beverly Credit Card Act of 1971, which sought to protect consumer privacy when purchasing products in a store. Liu instead ruled for Apple, concluding that \"because we cannot make a square peg fit a round hole, we must conclude that online transactions involving electronically downloadable products fall outside the coverage of the statute.\"\n\nIn 2015, Justice Liu joined in the California Supreme Court's unauthored opinion, \"In re Hong Yen Chang\", which posthumously admitted Chang to the State Bar. Chang was denied admission to the bar by the court in 1890, due to the federal Chinese Exclusion Act. Justice Liu and the rest of the California Supreme Court abrogated the court's previous decision and held that \"the discriminatory exclusion of Chang from the State Bar of California was a grievous wrong\" that \"denied Chang equal protection of the laws\".\n\nLiu leans socially liberal. He has written in favor of affirmative action, abortion rights, and same-sex marriage and has been critical of Bush-era waterboarding policy and the death penalty. In a 2008 article for the \"Stanford Law Review\", Liu advocated a constitutional right to receive welfare. His positions are predominantly left-leaning; however, Liu has supported charter schools and government-funded vouchers for private schools, particularly if used as a tool to \"promote racial diversity.\" Justice Liu has defended the California Supreme Court's practice of drafting its opinions before hearing oral arguments.\n\nGerald Uelman, a professor and former Dean of the University of Santa Clara School of Law, was impressed with Liu's work, saying \"He displays a very independent streak. His opinions are very well thought out and well reasoned.\" Bob Egelko, a legal affairs reporter for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", agreed, saying that \"his dissents come within the ideological boundaries of [the California Supreme Court], which is an institution that in general moves incrementally.\"\n\nLiu's recent work includes \"Keeping Faith with the Constitution\" (2009) (with Pamela S. Karlan and Christopher H. Schroeder); \"Rethinking Constitutional Welfare Rights\" in \"Stanford Law Review\" (2008); \"History Will Be Heard: An Appraisal of the Seattle/Louisville Decision\" in Harvard Law & Policy Review (2008); \"Improving Title I Funding Equity Across States, Districts, and Schools,\" in \"Iowa Law Review\" (2008); \"Seattle and Louisville\" in \"California Law Review\" (2007); \"Education, Equality, and National Citizenship\" in Yale Law Journal (2006); and \"Interstate Inequality in Educational Opportunity\" in \"New York University Law Review\" (2006).\n\nIn 2007, Liu's work won the Education Law Association's Steven S. Goldberg Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Education Law. In 2009, Professor Liu won the UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award, the university's most prestigious award for excellence in teaching. The Boalt Hall Class of 2009 selected him as the faculty commencement speaker.\n\nLiu was married to Ann M. O'Leary, the daughter of a social worker and a union leader, who grew up in Orono, Maine. She was a senior policy adviser in the Hillary Clinton's 2016 Presidential Campaign. Liu and his wife have one daughter, Violet, and one son, Emmett. On August 30, 2016 O'Leary and Liu announced in a joint statement that they were separating, as Liu had entered into a relationship with San Francisco Supervisor Jane Kim. Liu is a skilled chef and fisherman. Liu's father, Wenpen Liu, a medical doctor, is active in Taiwanese politics and Taiwan independence movement, and is a main organizer in the Democratic Progressive Party overseas and head of the Sacramento office of the Formosan Association for Public Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6179610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6179610", "title": "Haitōrei Edict", "text": "Haitōrei Edict\n\nThe was an edict issued by the Meiji government of Japan on March 28, 1876 which prohibited people, with the exception of former lords (\"daimyōs\"), the military and law enforcement officials, from carrying weapons in public. Violators would have their swords confiscated.\n\nThe \"Haitōrei\" was one of a series of steps taken by the government to abolish the traditional privileges of the \"samurai\" class. The first \"Haitōrei\" of 1870 prohibited farmers or merchants from wearing swords and dressing like \"samurai\". This measure was in part an effort to restore public safety and order during the tumultuous period immediately after the Meiji Restoration and during the Boshin War.\n\nIn 1871, the government issued the \"Danpatsurei\" Edict, allowing \"samurai\" to cut their top-knots and wear their hair in the Western manner. However, this was not required, simply allowed and encouraged. Universal military conscription was instituted in 1873, and with the creation of the Imperial Japanese Army, the \"samurai\" lost their monopoly on military service. The hereditary stipends provided to the \"samurai\" by their formal feudal lords (and assumed by the central government in 1871) were likewise abolished in 1873. The prohibition on wearing swords was controversial with the Meiji oligarchy, but the argument that it was an anachronism not in keeping with the westernization of Japan won out.\n\nThese changes in Japanese society and in the social and economic status of the \"samurai\" were a major cause of discontent in early Meiji period Japan, and led to a number of \"samurai\"-led insurrections, particularly in western Japan and Kyūshū.\n\nAlso as a result of the \"Haitōrei\", swords lost their utilitarian role, and many swordsmiths were forced to turn to the production of farming implements and kitchen cutlery to survive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13485264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13485264", "title": "History of Japanese nationality", "text": "History of Japanese nationality\n\nThe history of Japanese nationality as a chronology of evolving concepts and practices begins in the mid-nineteenth century, as Japan opened diplomatic relations with the west and a modern nation state was established through the Meiji Restoration.\n\nUntil the Meiji Restoration, Japanese people were subject to both the local authority of the \"daimyō\" and the national authority of the Tokugawa shogunate, who pledged allegiance to the Emperor. A concrete example of the shōgun acting directly on Japanese people as a nationality would be blanket recall of Japanese people from all other nations during the sakoku period, which resulted in the end of communities like Nihonmachi in Vietnam.\n\nThe idea of Japan as a nation was a topic for scholarly inquiry during much of the Edo period. For example, by Hayashi Shihei (1738–93). This book, which was published in Japan in 1785, deals with Chosen (Korea) and the kingdom of Ryukyu (Okinawa) and Ezo (Hokkaido). The widely distributed \"Nihon Ōdai Ichiran\" by Hayashi Gahō (1618–1688) identifies and describes a number of Goryeo and Joseon missions to Japan as well as Japanese missions to Imperial China.\n\nScholarly formulations of Japanese nationhood—notably those of the kokugaku school and late Mito school—exerted considerable influence on both Japanese nationalism and the practice of Japanese nationality in the Meiji period.\n\nNationality practices during the first decades of the Meiji government were shaped by pressure to conform to western norms. Meiji oligarchs saw adopting the technology and institutions of western powers not only as essential to regaining sovereignty rights lost in the unequal treaties but also as an effective means of national strengthening. Like the reforms of other modernizing states, the legal and institutional changes of the early Meiji period involved rationalizing the population, making the relationship between the individual and the state more direct, and codifying the rights and obligations associated with that relationship. By the late 1880s, Japanese leaders were increasingly preoccupied with the idea of cultivating a distinctive sense of the nation, or kokutai (国体) among Japanese subjects. This goal led to the emergence of new nationality practices—such as compulsory education, elections, and voluntary organizations—which, unlike earlier reforms based on borrowing from western models, were strongly shaped by the emerging ideology of Japanese nationalism.\n\nThe following is a list of nationality practices initiated during the Meiji period (1868–1912). Though these practices and the ideology that informed them changed over the course of the Meiji period and subsequent decades, they remained the core of Japanese nationality practice through World War II.\n\nAs part of its modernizing program, the Meiji state replaced the feudal class system with a much simpler set of status distinctions. In 1872, the koseki (), or family registry, system was established, requiring each family to register with the local government and notify authorities of births, marriages, adoptions, divorces, and deaths in the household. The implementation of the koseki system meant that all families adopted a family name, a privilege which had previously been reserved for the warrior class. Members of the burakumin (), or outcaste group, were legally emancipated in 1871. This made their legal status equal to other , though the koseki of former burakumin families retained a record of that status, facilitating de facto discrimination. On the other end of the social hierarchy, the status of samurai was gradually phased out. Samurai stipends were commuted into government bonds in 1872 and former members of samurai households became commoners. A small peerage, modeled on the British Peerage, was created from a combination of and former daimyō. Its members received a small stipend and, after 1899, were eligible to sit in the Upper House of the Diet.\n\nChanges in personal status law were accompanied by the promulgation of comprehensive new law codes. A Criminal Code, (1882) Civil Code (1898), and Commercial Code (1890), were drafted with the cooperation of foreign experts. These legal codes are a clear example of the effect of the effort to revise unequal treaties on nationality practice in Meiji Japan. Because removing extraterritoriality provisions required convincing western powers that Japanese courts met modern standards, Meiji leaders moved quickly to implement a western-style legal system. This meant that being governed by western style laws—applied uniformly throughout the nation—became part of being a subject of the new Japanese nation-state. The Meiji-era legal codes remained the basis of Japanese law until the end of World War II.\n\nThe principal obligations associated with being a subject of the Japanese state were payment of taxes and, for men, military service.\n\nThe Land Tax Reform (地租改正) of 1873 established a system of private land ownership and instituted monetary taxation. As a result, payment of taxes became linked to one's individual status as a subject of the Japanese nation-state and was no longer a function of feudal status or place of residence. Under the Meiji Constitution, direct payment of taxes to the national government became the basis for political participation at the national level.\n\nThe Conscription Act (1873) was part of a sweeping military reform, replacing the independent samurai armies of the feudal domains with a national conscript army. Reporting for the conscription exam at age twenty became a common experience for all Japanese men and military training exposed young men to nationalist ideology. Initially, about 5 percent of eligible men were drafted, serving four years active duty and three years in the reserves. During the First Sino-Japanese War and Russo-Japanese War, conscription rates rose to about 10 percent. Military conscription rates were extremely high during the Second World War.\n\nThe Meiji Constitution (1890) outlined a limited set of political rights. Men who paid 15 yen in annual taxes to the national government had the right to vote in elections for the Lower House of the Diet, making just over 1 percent of the population eligible to vote in the first national election in 1890. In 1900, the property qualification was lowered. In 1925 the General Election Law (普通選挙法) extended the franchise to all men aged 25 or older. In the 1920s, there was a movement for women's suffrage. Proposals to extend suffrage and other political rights to women were debated in the Lower House of the Diet, but failed to become law.\n\nPolitical rights were most important during the period of Taishō Democracy. Yet, even during this decade of flourishing political parties, the importance of political rights for ordinary people was muted by the dominant role of non-elected groups in Japanese politics. The significance of voting rights was also limited by a series of increasingly repressive Peace Preservation laws designed to mitigate the potentially destabalizing effects of popular party politics and prevent the spread of leftist ideologies.\n\nThe most significant aspect of education as nationality practice in this period is the advent of compulsory primary education. Universal primary education was first articulated as a state goal in the Education Act of 1872. Since much of the responsibility for funding the new schools fell on local governments, its implementation was uneven. Nevertheless, the school system expanded rapidly. The vast majority of Japanese children could expect to attend four years of primary school by around the start of the 20th century. Initially, national education policy was focused on practical goals and had minimal ideological content. In the 1880s, however, anxiety about over-enthusiastic westernization mounted and the need to educate subjects who would be enfranchised by the awaited constitution became apparent. These concerns spurred debate about how the education system should promote moral conduct and strengthen national sentiment. The key document in this respect is the Imperial Rescript on Education (1882).\n\nA system of higher education was also established. State-sponsored exchange students were an important part of the Meiji modernization program.\n\nThe government fostered the development of an expanding number of voluntary associations which acted as channels through which ordinary people were exposed to nationalist ideology. These served to organize, indoctrinate, and mobilize various sectors of the population, including students, wives and mothers, and Shinto priests.\n\nPrevious sections of this article deal with nationality practice in Japan without reference to the fact that the boundaries of Japan were changing during the period discussed. This section addresses nationality practices in Japanese-controlled territory in light of this fact. During the period of imperialist expansion, the term \"naichi\" (内地), or home territory, was used to distinguish Japan proper from its colonies. Though, historically, its exact meaning varied, this section uses it in its narrowest sense, to refer to Honshū, Shikoku and Kyūshū.\n\nUntil the late 19th century, both Qing China and the Satsuma Domain had claimed the Ryūkyū Kingdom as a tributary state. In the 1870s, the Japanese government maneuvered to establish direct sovereignty over the Ryūkyū Islands. As part of a settlement with Qing government after the 1874 Japanese incursion into Taiwan, the Qing government renounced its claims, clearing the way for direct Japanese rule. The Ryūkyū King Shō Tai was declared a vassal of the Meiji court and his kingdom designated Ryukyu-han (琉球藩), or the feudal domain of Ryukyu. During the first years of Japanese control, King Shō Tai retained nominal authority, but Ryukyu was largely ruled by the Naimushō office in Naha. In 1879, the Japanese government tightened control over Ryukyu, forcing the King to withdraw and declaring Ryukyu a prefecture (Okinawa-ken 沖縄県).\n\nConcerned about resistance from local elites, Japanese administrators moved gradually in implementing modernizing reforms. The standardization of household registration and the abolition of noble status occurred early on, followed by the extension of Japanese criminal law to Okinawa by 1880. Land reform was completed in 1903, ending communal tenure and establishing a system of direct land taxes paid in cash. The Conscription Law was applied to Okinawa in 1898. Political rights available to subjects in naichi prefectures were eventually extended to Okinawans. By 1920, Okinawans were represented in the Diet on the same basis as naichi Japanese. Beginning in the 1880s, the prefectural government also attempted to increase attendance in primary schools and participation in nationally organized voluntary associations, but the spread of these heavily ideological nationality practices was relatively slow. The spread of these practices was part of a trend towards cultural assimilation to Japanese norms. Partly as a result of government policies, many Okinawans abandoned traditional cultural practices and the Ryūkyū language.\n\nThough this process in many ways resembled the modernizing and centralizing reforms affecting nationality practice in naichi prefectures, in Okinawa it had a distinct colonial dynamic. The bureaucracy and the police in Okinawa were initially staffed almost exclusively by migrants from naichi Japan. Naichi Japanese in Okinawa enjoyed privileged access to jobs and business opportunities, while Okinawans-by-birth suffered discrimination based on a perception of ethnic and cultural inferiority.\n\nAfter initial travel restrictions were lifted, a significant number of Okinawans migrated to the main islands of Japan, where they tended to assimilate into local society, often encountering less discrimination than at home. Japanese nationality status gave Okinawan emigrants access to the protection of the Japanese government when abroad and to preferential treatment as settler colonists within the Japanese empire. In practice, Okinawan emigrants experienced discrimination in areas where naichi Japanese immigrants had already settled. For this reason they tended to form distinct communities overseas. By 1938, more than 70,000 Okinawans had emigrated outside the Japanese empire, principally to Hawai'i, South America and the Philippines. By 1945, more than 50,000 Okinawans had migrated to other parts of the Japanese empire, notably to Nan'yōchō.\n\nBefore 1855, Hokkaidō was loosely integrated into the Tokugawa state through the Matsumae domain. In 1855, concerned about military threat from Russia, the bakufu assumed direct control, but its authority remained weak and had relatively little effect on the native Ainu population. After the Meiji Restoration, the new government established the Hokkaidō Colonization Commission () to administer its northern territories. The Colonization Commission and its successors promoted economic development and encouraged immigration from naichi Japan. Early settlement schemes were unsuccessful, but beginning in the 1890s, generous land grant policies attracted tens of thousands of settlers each year.\n\nThe government also launched an aggressive assimilation effort directed at the Ainu population, an effort Richard Siddle characterizes as \"a series of policies that attempted to turn the Ainu into productive Japanese citizens, but actually served to emphasise their inequality and subordination to the state.\" In 1875, Ainu were granted legal status as commoners, subject to the same laws as naichi Japanese. As with the burakumin, the government maintained separate records of their former status. As areas of naichi Japanese settlement expanded, Ainu were increasingly subject to forced relocation. Traditional hunting techniques, as well as cultural practices such as tattooing and ear piercing, were legally banned. In 1899, the was passed. It established a separate and compulsory school system, a program of land grants designed to encourage Ainu to adopt agriculture, and provided some welfare benefits. Education in Ainu schools promoted cultural assimilation, including adopting the nationality practices of imperial Japan, such as joining nationally organized voluntary associations and serving in the military. The Ainu school system was abolished in 1927.\n\nNationality practices in Karafuto, under joint Russian and Japanese control 1867–1875, and Japanese rule 1905–1945, were similar to those in Hokkaidō in that the Japanese administration pursued a policy of promoting economic development and settlement by naichi Japanese. The population of Ainu and other indigenous people was very small in Karafuto. As in Hokkaidō, Ainu and indigenous people were forcibly resettled and subjected to a program of assimilation.\n\nSome nationality issues arose out of complications related to changes in sovereignty in the nineteenth century. For example, the status of Japanese and Ainu who had remained in Karafuto during the period of Russian rule between 1875 and 1905 was ambiguous. In some cases, these people were treated as Russian nationals. The other distinctive feature of nationality practice in Karafuto was immigration policy. Though the immigration of unskilled laborers was illegal in the rest of Japan, several thousand Chinese coolies were recruited to work as temporary migrant laborers in Karafuto between 1909 and 1927. After 1927, they were replaced by migrants from Korea. By 1945, more than 50,000 Koreans—under varying degrees of coercion—had migrated to Karafuto.\n\nJapan annexed Taiwan in 1895 after the First Sino-Japanese War. Residents of Taiwan became subjects of Japan, but did not have the same status, rights and obligations as Japanese from the home islands.\n\nAfter decades of intervention in Korean affairs, Japan formally annexed Korea in 1910. Annexation meant that Koreans became subjects of the Japanese Emperor and were considered Japanese nationals by the Japanese government. Despite this seemingly equal status, colonial policy facilitated differential treatment of Koreans. At the same time, it constituted an increasingly coercive program of assimilation into the Japanese state and Japanese cultural norms.\n\nThe Sōshi-kaimei (創氏改名) laws established a Japanese-style family registry in Korea, and Koreans were permitted to use a Japanese-style family name (the Korean-style family name was not prohibited). This system was separate from the Japanese koseki system and it was illegal to move registration records between the two systems, thus preserving a legal difference between Koreans and naichi Japanese regardless of place of residence. Naichi Japanese in Korea had privileged access to economic and educational resources. They retained rights and obligations, such as the vote and military service, that they had in naichi Japan. Because Korea was administered through the Government General of Korea, the laws issued by the Government General, rather than those of naichi Japan, determined the rights and obligations of Koreans to the state. The education system promoted cultural assimilation of Koreans—both in its content and its use of Japanese as the primary language of instruction—but gave children of naichi Japanese families in Korea preferential treatment. In the 1930s, the assimilationist aspect of education in Korea intensified under the so-called . 1944, by national conscription decree, Koreans were conscripted as laborers for service in Japan. In 1943, Japan Navy decided to accept enlistees of the Koreans by the Royal Decree of July 28, 1943.\n\nStatus as Imperial Japanese subjects gave Koreans a degree of mobility within Japanese controlled territory. Though in 1945, Koreans were present as voluntary migrants, labour conscripts, soldiers, or comfort women in nearly every part of the Japanese Empire, the most significant Korean migrations were to naichi Japan and to Manchuria.\n\nTens of thousands of impoverished Korean tenant farmers moved to Japan to find work. There, they faced difficult working conditions, discrimination, government surveillance, and vigilante violence. The Japanese government was anxious about the potentially destabilizing effect of Korean laborers in Japan; yet, because Koreans were legally Japanese nationals, it could not explicitly restrict immigration from Korea. Instead, during economic downturns in Japan, colonial police in Pusan were instructed to restrict Korean emigration on an informal basis by limiting access to travel documents (旅行証明書). In Japan, Koreans came under the jurisdiction of the Japanese government proper, rather than the Government General of Korea. This meant that they were governed by Japanese law and had greater civil and political rights—notably the right to hold meetings and vote in national elections—than Koreans in Korea. Political rights were especially important to the community of Korean students in Japan. See Koreans in Japan. After the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, the Japanese government pursued a more active policy of assimilation towards Koreans in Japan. Primary school attendance was made compulsory in 1930, as was membership in the . This organization, tightly controlled by the Naimusho and the Government General of Korea,issued identity cards to its members, controlled the travel of Koreans between Korea and Japan, and organized labor mobilization, as well as sponsoring the cultural, social and ideological activities typical of other \"voluntary\" associations.\n\nBeginning in the early 1900s, hundreds of thousands of Koreans migrated to Manchuria. Though this territory was not under Japanese control, the Japanese government claimed Koreans in Chinese territory as Japanese nationals. This contention was part a broader effort to dominate China (see Twenty-One Demands). It meant that Japanese consulates claimed extraterritoriality privileges for Koreans in China and that Koreans were prohibited from naturalizing as Chinese citizens. After the Mukden Incident and the establishment of Manchukuo, Japanese authorities encouraged further Korean migration to Manchuria. The nationality status of Koreans in Manchuria was ambiguous.\n\nWhen Japan surrendered in August 1945, there were more than six million Japanese nationals outside of what is now Japan. The process of repatriating these individuals—about half of whom were civilians—revealed the inconsistencies of nationality practice in the Japanese Empire. Despite the rhetoric of equality, naichi (main lands) Japanese were treated differently from other Imperial subjects.\n\nDuring the summer and fall of 1945, hundreds of thousands of conscripted Korean laborers in Japan abandoned their jobs and returned to Korea. Defining the remaining 600,000 Koreans—many of whom were long-time residents or had been born in Japan—as foreigners, Japanese authorities began to limit the citizenship rights they had enjoyed as imperial subjects resident in Japan. During the colonial period, it was illegal to transfer a Korean koseki to Japan; therefore, Japanese authorities were able to target residents of Japan whose names appeared on Korean koseki. See Loss of Japanese nationality. Since Japan did not have diplomatic relations with either Korean government until 1965, Koreans remaining in Japan became officially stateless.\n\nThe treatment of Okinawans during the post-war repatriation programs reflected both the ambiguous status of Okinawans with the Japanese Empire and the strategic goals of the United States Military. Interpreting \"Okinawan\" as a distinct nationality reinforced the legitimacy of governing Okinawa separately from the rest of Japan. Okinawans, defined as individuals registered in an Okinawan koseki, were repatriated to Okinawa from both naichi Japan and former colonial territories in the Pacific. About 56,900 Okinawans were repatriated from Nan'yōchō and the Philippines and as many as 79,000 from naichi Japan. Like other Okinawans, repatriates were officially Japanese nationals but were governed by the United States Civil Administration of the Ryūkyū Islands. Okinawans who traveled overseas or emigrated during the period of US administration (1945–1972), were issued US travel documents rather than Japanese passports.\n\nAbout 1.5 million Japanese who were left in Manchuria after the Soviet invasion were transferred to labor camps in Siberia, where they remained for as many as five years. Since military personnel, government officials and employees of major companies had preferential treatment during the evacuation, rural settler colonists were overrepresented in this group. Once they returned to Japan, settler colonists regained Japanese nationality, but their former status as colonial subjects continued to have meaning. For example, colonists who had been conscripted into the Japanese militia in Manchuria were ineligible for the pension benefits available to other veterans of the Japanese military. The same was true of Japanese veterans of the in the Philippines.\n\nThe majority of Japanese settler colonists left behind in China were women, and these Japanese women mostly married Chinese men and became known as \"stranded war wives\" (zanryu fujin). Because they had children fathered by Chinese men, the Japanese women were not allowed to bring their Chinese families back with them to Japan so most of them stayed. Japanese law only allowed children fathered by Japanese fathers to become Japanese citizens. \n\nDuring the chaotic retreat from Manchuria, an estimated 10,000 children of Japanese colonists were left behind and adopted by Chinese families. In the 1980s, the Japanese government instituted a program to facilitate the belated repatriation of these individuals, known as . Those who could locate their name on a prewar Japanese koseki were allowed to live in Japan indefinitely, but did not automatically regain Japanese nationality. Approximately 20,000 orphans and their relatives have moved to Japan under this program. Some \"orphans\" contend that, even if they undergo the cumbersome process of regaining Japanese nationality, they are not offered full citizenship because they have little access to social benefits, such as pensions, available to other Japanese.\n\nThe legal aspects of Japanese nationality are currently governed by the Nationality Act of 1950. It states that a person is a Japanese national if either of his or her parents is a Japanese national, provides for naturalization of aliens, and explains how Japanese nationality may be lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "295992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295992", "title": "Indeterminacy debate in legal theory", "text": "Indeterminacy debate in legal theory\n\nThe indeterminacy debate in legal theory can be summed up as follows: Can the law constrain the results reached by adjudicators in legal disputes? Some members of the critical legal studies movement — primarily legal academics in the United States — argued that the answer to this question is \"no.\" Another way to state this position is to suggest that disputes cannot be resolved with clear answers and thus there is at least some amount of uncertainty in legal reasoning and its application to disputes. A given body of legal doctrine is said to be \"indeterminate\" by demonstrating that every legal rule in that body of legal doctrine is opposed by a counterrule that can be used in a process of legal reasoning.\n\nThe \"indeterminacy thesis\" emerged as a far-left reply to Ronald Dworkin's \"right answer\" thesis. In its strongest form it is an extreme version of legal realism. It argues that nothing is law until it has been promulgated by an official - either a judge or the legislature. For example, a statute that says \"No person may smoke in a hospital\" does not mean that \"John Doe may not smoke in a hospital\"; the second statement is the law only if a legitimate authority declares so.\n\nThis is because one cannot describe a legal statement as right or wrong without making a normative value judgment about what the law should be.\n\nIn the 1990s the indeterminacy thesis came under heavy attack by liberal and conservative defenders of the rule of law, and the debate, though its mantle is in the process of being taken up by a new generation of scholars, has left the intellectual spotlight for the time being.\n\nThe thesis can be criticised because the concept of legal mistake is recognised in a determinative theory of law. While such a mistake necessarily involves a normative judgment, it is not truly subjective. A positivist Hartian theory contends that this judgment is conventionally objective because the rule of recognition fails to recognise the mistake as legally valid. According to a liberal theory such as Dworkin's, the normativity of the judgment is one of reason rather than of value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4018065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4018065", "title": "Julius Stone", "text": "Julius Stone\n\nJulius Stone (7 July 1907 – 1985) was Challis Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law at the University of Sydney from 1942 to 1972, and thereafter a visiting Professor of Law at the University of New South Wales and concurrently Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law at the Hastings College of Law, University of California.\n\nHe is the author of 27 books on jurisprudence and international law, and is hailed by his official biography at the Julius Stone Institute of Jurisprudence as one of the premier legal theorists.\n\nStone was born in Leeds, England to parents who were poor Lithuanian Jewish refugees.\n\nStone received a scholarship to Oxford University, where he earned Bachelor of Arts (Jurisprudence), Bachelor of Civil Law and Doctor of Civil Law degrees. He followed this with a Master of Laws from Leeds University, and then a Doctor of Juridical Science from Harvard University.\n\nStone taught at Harvard, and briefly at Leeds, then went to New Zealand where he worked at Auckland University College. In 1942, he was appointed Challis Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law at the University of Sydney, a position he held until 1972. Stone's appointment was controversial for several reasons; he was perceived to have a radical jurisprudential stance, some wanted the Chair to be held open until the end of the war as it was suggested that there were suitable candidates in active service. It was suspected that the fact that he was a Jew also played a role. A debate over his appointment was carried out in both the Australian parliament and local newspapers; the Chancellor of the University, and two Fellows of the University Senate, resigned in protest. This early experience of anti-Semitism influenced his lifelong commitment to justice, according to his biographer, Leonie Star (Star 1993).\n\nStone has been described by his official \"JSIJ\" biography as having \"a life-long commitment to Israel\" and in the \"Sydney Law Review\" as having an emotional and \"fierce loyalty to the State of Israel\" that led some of his colleagues to \"express fear even to discuss Israel with him\".\n\nIn 1972, Stone moved to the University of New South Wales, where he was a visiting Professor of Law until his death in 1985. While at University of New South Wales, he concurrently held the position of Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law at the Hastings College of Law, University of California.\n\nIn 1999, 15 years after Stone's death, the University of Sydney established an institute of jurisprudence which was named after him, the Julius Stone Institute of Jurisprudence.\n\nStone influenced generations of lawyers who studied at University of Sydney. For most of his time there, the Law School was a practice-based school and students learnt what they needed to become practising lawyers. According to A J Brown of Griffith University, the former Justice of the High Court of Australia Michael Kirby was heavily influenced at university by Stone. \n\nStone's view is that Israeli settlements in the West Bank are legal under international law, and do not constitute a violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention (Article 49(6)). He stated:\n\n\"Irony would...be pushed to the absurdity of claiming that Article 49(6), designed to prevent repetition of Nazi-type genocidal policies of rendering Nazi metropolitan territories judenrein, has now come to mean that...the West Bank...must be made judenrein and must be so maintained, if necessary by the use of force by the government of Israel against its own inhabitants. Common sense as well as correct historical and functional context excludes so tyrannical a reading of Article 49(6.)\"\n\n\nStone has been criticised for his views in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict by Ben Saul, saying: \"Many of Stone’s positions on critical international legal issues in the Israel/Palestine conflict stepped outside even generous zones of plausible or reasonable interpretations of the law, even on the law as it then often ambiguously stood, and certainly in hindsight.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55757460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55757460", "title": "Kavala Urban KTEL", "text": "Kavala Urban KTEL\n\nKavala Urban KTEL is s a Legal Person of Private Law that performs the urban transport project of the city of Kavala. It was established in 2001 by a decision of the General Assembly of the shareholders of the legal entity under private law. The purpose of the company is to carry out a transport project and operates under concession contracts co-signed between State and KTEL Kavalas. The ρισκl of the Kavala Civic Cabinet is divided into 400,000 shares, of which 250,000 shares are defined as share capital distributed to about 72 private motorists and spread over 25 city buses. The 150,000 remaining shares belong to the Kavalas Civil Aviation Company itself. and is distributed in 15 spare urban buses. The management of the Kavalas Civil Registry SA is exercised by a Board of Directors consisting of 5 members elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders for four years in accordance with the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 25 of Law 3710/2008. The company in its present form employs about 65 employees, of which 8 are permanent employees of a collective agreement and the other employees are motor vehicle owners. Each year, the Urban Cabin carries approximately 3,000,000 passengers. Since 2005 a special program for the free transportation of disabled persons has been implemented. and disabled people, while approximately 550 travels per year are carried out. from wheelchairs and special bikes to special bikes. For their transportation, the Urban Kavalas SA has been equipped with a total of 8 vehicles, namely 6 small ramps and 2 large-type ramps and special wheelchair tethers. As part of the benefits of the other passengers, Kavala Civil Registry has adapted and maintains a special telematics stop system with an alarm system for people with disabilities. At the same time, 11 vending ticket vendors issue tickets for better service to citizens. Of the 40 city buses available to the company, the 28 vehicles are 12 meters Mercedes O405 and MAN A21, 4 vehicles are 10.5 meters Neoplan brand, the other 8 are mini-bus of which 2 vehicles are 8 Man A20, while the remaining six vehicles are 6.5 meters of the Mercedes Sprinter XCity brand. Of the above vehicles, the 25 out of 12 meters are from the share capital and all the rest of the Urban Cabel\n"}
{"id": "2922739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2922739", "title": "Kembrew McLeod", "text": "Kembrew McLeod\n\nKembrew McLeod is an American artist, activist, and professor of Communication Studies at the University of Iowa.\n\nHe is best known as a performance artist or \"media prankster\" who filed an application in 1997 to register the phrase \"Freedom of Expression\" as a trademark in the United States. This phrase was the name of his zine/artist book series, and on January 6, 1998, McLeod was granted registration no. 2127381 in Class 16 (for \"booklets in the field of creative writing\").\n\nMcLeod received his PhD from University of Massachusetts Amherst, an MA from the University of Virginia, and a BS from James Madison University.\n\nMcLeod sought registration of the phrase \"Freedom of Expression\" as a reflection on the use of intellectual property law to restrict cultural expression in U.S. society. In 2003, McLeod sent AT&T a cease and desist letter in response to an AT&T advertising campaign in college newspapers promoting a new long distance plan which used the phrase \"freedom of expression\". McLeod claimed that the use by AT&T of his registered trademark could lead some consumers to infer a connection between his publication and AT&T. \"The New York Times\" later interviewed McLeod, and reported that his aim was \"to object to corporate power over words, speech and even ideas. 'I do want to register my genuine protest that a big company that really doesn't represent freedom of expression is trying to appropriate this phrase,' he said.\"\n\nRegistration no. 2127381 was cancelled in October 2004 when McLeod did not lodge documentary evidence with the United States Patent and Trademark Office to demonstrate that \"Freedom of Expression\" had been used as a trademark.\n\nOn December 10, 2007, McLeod protested a Bill Clinton event in Iowa City, Iowa, dressed as a robot and demanding an apology for remarks made by Clinton in 1992 about controversial hip hop musician Sister Souljah. Before being removed by security and as he was led away, McLeod tossed multi-colored flyers into the air which included the name of a website, mr-ifobca.org, standing for \"Mad Robots in Favor of Bill Clinton Apologizing.\"\n\nMcLeod's book built upon the themes raised by the AT&T event and develops a serious critique on a range of diverse topics such as hip-hop music and sampling, the patenting of seeds and human genes, folk and blues music, visual collage art, electronic voting, and computer software, among other things.\n\nMcLeod has also written music criticism for \"Rolling Stone\", \"The Village Voice\", \"Spin\", and \"Mojo\". He is the coproducer of a 2001 documentary film on the music industry, \"Money for Nothing: Behind the Business of Pop Music,\" which he produced for the Media Education Foundation. He is currently working on another documentary on the history of sound collage, digital sampling, and intellectual property law, titled \"Copyright Criminals: This Is a Sampling Sport.\"\n\nHe participated in the exhibition \"Illegal Art: Freedom of Expression in the Corporate Age,\" which was hosted by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art's Artist Gallery. In 2005, he helped co-found the Freedom of Expression® Security Consortium, which is dedicated to \"Regulating Freedom of Expression in the Marketplace of Ideas\". He also is co-editor (with Ted Striphas) of a 2006 special issue of the journal \"Cultural Studies\" on \"The Politics of Intellectual Properties,\" which is available for free on the internet.\n\nHis book, \"Freedom of Expression\", is available as a free PDF download with a Creative Commons license.\n\nIn 2012, one chapter from \"Freedom of Expression\" was used as the basis for two essays in the United States Pirate Party's book, \"No Safe Harbor\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29801432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29801432", "title": "Kosher tax", "text": "Kosher tax\n\nThe Kosher tax was one of several indirect taxes imposed by the Russian Imperial government and sometimes by Hapsburg empire, Germany and Moldavia on Jews.\n\nIn Russia, the tax, known as the \"korobka\", was a tax paid only by Jews for each animal slaughtered in accordance with the kashrut rules and for each pound of this meat sold. It was part of the Russian Jewish \"basket tax\" or \"box tax\". Though it was used to refer to a tax on meat or slaughtering, the word \"korobka\" (Russian: коробка) actually means \"box\" in Russian. The tax came to be called that because Jews paying had to deposit a coin in a box at the kosher slaughterer.\n\nAccording to Herman Rosenthal and Jacob Goodale Lipman, the tax was \"the most burdensome and annoying of the special taxes imposed upon the Jews of Russia by the government\". The burden of taxes, and the \"korobka\" in particular, was one of the factors which drove many Jews to abandon the towns and settle in villages or on noblemen estates.\n\nWith the annexation to Austria in 1772, special taxes were imposed on Galician Jews (\"Eastern Jews\") for marriage permits, kosher meat, synagogues, and similar items.\n\nBetween 1777 to 1784, the Jews of Horodenka, a region on the south-east corner of Galicia, paid a number of special taxes, including the \"Protection and Tolerance Tax\", and \"Property and Occupation tax\". In 1784, the Property and Occupation Tax was cancelled and replaced with the Kosher Meat Tax.\n\nIn 1741, Moldavian prince Grigore Ghica confirmed the obligation of each Jew to pay the \"crupca\", an indirect tax on kosher meat similar to the Russian \"korobka\".\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, Germany appears to have had a \"kosher meat tax\" imposed by municipalities and used to support the local Jewish community.\n\n"}
{"id": "495729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495729", "title": "Lacto vegetarianism", "text": "Lacto vegetarianism\n\nA lac to vegetarian (sometimes referred to as a lactarian; from the Latin root lact-, \"milk\") diet is a diet that includes vegetables as well as dairy products such as milk, cheese, yogurt, butter, ghee, cream, and kefir, but excludes eggs. \n\nIn India, lacto vegetarian is considered synonymous to vegetarian, while eating eggs is considered a form of non-vegetarian diet. The concept and practice of lacto-vegetarianism among a significant number of people comes from ancient India. In other parts of the world, vegetarianism generally refers to ovo lacto vegetarianism instead, allowing eggs into the diet.\n\nLacto-vegetarian diets are popular with many followers of the Eastern religious traditions such as Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism. The cores of their beliefs behind a lacto-vegetarian diet is the law of ahimsa, or non-violence.\n\nAccording to the Vedas, (Hindu holy scriptures), all living beings are equally valued. Hinduism also adopted much of the buddhist philosophy on nonviolence.Also, Hindus believe that one's personality is affected by the kind of food one consumes, and eating flesh is considered bad for one's spiritual/mental well-being. It takes many more vegetables or plants to produce an equal amount of meat, many more lives are destroyed, and in this way more suffering is caused when meat is consumed. Although some suffering and pain is inevitably caused to other living beings to satisfy the human need for food, according to ahimsa, every effort should be made to minimize suffering. This is to avoid karmic consequences and show respect for living things.Because all living beings are equally valued in these traditions, a vegetarian diet rooted in ahimsa is only one aspect of environmentally conscious living, relating to those beings affected by our need for food. Environmentalism and vegetarianism are often practiced together.\\\n\nIn the case of Jainism, the vegetarian standards are strict. It allows the consumption of only fruit and leaves that can be taken from plants without causing their death. This further excludes from the diet vegetables like carrots, potatoes, onions and garlic.\n\nThe primary difference between a vegan and a lacto-vegetarian diet is the avoidance of dairy products. Vegans do not consume dairy because of their belief that their production causes the animal suffering or a premature death, or otherwise abridges animal rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39278365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39278365", "title": "Legislative Council (Amendment) Bill 2012", "text": "Legislative Council (Amendment) Bill 2012\n\nThe Legislative Council (Amendment) Bill 2012 is a Bill of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. It is an amendment to the Legislative Council Ordinance to disqualify a resigned member of the Legislative Council from participating in a subsequent by-election. The original proposal was to avoid by-elections but it sparked vast controversies in the community. The revised Bill restricts a resigned member of the Legislative Council from standing in any by-elections within six months.\n\nIn January 2010, five pro-democracy Legislative Council members from each of the five geographical constituencies resigned to trigger territory-wide by-elections for the purpose of instigating a so-called “referendum”. They stood in the by-elections and were all re-elected. The 2010 by-election launched by the pro-democracy legislators was strongly criticised by the Beijing government. As government claimed that \"views received during the public consultation on the arrangements for filling vacancies in the LegCo indicate that more people consider that the phenomenon of Members resigning at will, triggering by-elections in which they seek to stand, is a mischief that needs to be addressed,\" the government therefore tried to change the electoral system to plug the \"loophole\".\n\nIn mid-May 2011, the government revealed its plan to do away with by-elections entirely. Unveiling the proposal, Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Stephen Lam cited the practice elsewhere: \"In some countries where the proportional representation (PR) system is adopted, by-elections are not used to fill vacant seats arising mid-term.\" According to the plan published on 8 June 2011, a Legislative Council seat in any geographical constituency or one of the five newly created district council 'superconstituencies' vacated by the resignation or death of a legislator would be filled by a 'leapfrog' mechanism by the next best placed candidate at the previous election.\n\nThe consultation document was opposed by the pro-democracy camp, professionals and legal experts. The government tabled a bill to amend current legislation for by-elections for 13 July 2011. However, by late June, the bill's future looked in doubt when the Central Government Liaison Office suggested a re-think. On 28 June, the government revised its proposal stipulating replacement by an unsuccessful candidate on the same election ticket. Whilst pro-government legislators declared support for the revised plan in principle, Regina Ip stated that consultation would still be desirable. The government bowed to pressure and announced one week later that it would suspend reading of the bill for two months, pending consultations on the revised proposals.\n\nIn July 2011, the Government published a consultation paper in which four options were proposed with regard to the arrangements for filling vacancies in the Legislative Council. Options to fill a casual vacancy arising mid-term in the Legislative Council:\n\nAfter the consultation, the government modified the bill to bar the resigning legislator from running again for six months.\n\nThe original proposal attracted criticism from Pan-Democrats as it was seen as depriving citizens of their political rights; even pro-government figures in the legislature expressed reservations about the workability of the plan. The pan democrats remained in opposition to any restriction of the electoral system.\n\nA researcher in Britain's Electoral Reform Society said it was indeed common for vacancies to be filled by a candidate who was next-in-line, but one who was on the specific list of the outgoing. He said that the proposal meant that a seat held by a small party (without a list) would automatically go to another party if its representative resigned or died, thereby entirely losing representation.\n\nThe Hong Kong Bar Association four strongly worded public warnings within two weeks of the first announcement of the plan, stating that the government's change violated the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and Hong Kong Bill of Rights. The Bar Association also opposed the revised proposal as its violation to the right to stand for election and right to elect guaranteed in the Article 26 of the Basic Law.\n\nAcademics echoed the sentiments, and also brought to light the possibility, albeit slim, that the new mechanism may abet assassinations. \n\nAlbert Chan and Wong Yuk-man of People Power start the filibuster by submitting 1306 amendments altogether to the revised Legislative Council (Amendment) Bill. Leung Kwok-hung of the League of Social Democrats and Andrew Cheng also participated in the filibustering. Miriam Lau of the Liberal Party carried out a 30-hour hunger strike to voice her opposition against such act of obstructionism and waste of public coffers. The Legislative Council carried on multiple overnight debates on the amendments with the support of the pro-Beijing camp. \n\nOn morning of 17 May 2012, Jasper Tsang Yok-sing, President of the Legco adopt Article 92 of the Standing Order, which allows the president follow foreign parliament rules for unregulated behaviors to terminate the debate. In the end, all amendments were defeated and the Bill was passed on 1 June 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "41716550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41716550", "title": "Legislature Parliament of Nepal", "text": "Legislature Parliament of Nepal\n\nSecond Constituent Assembly of Nepal () was the unicameral legislature of Nepal. It was formed as the result of the 2013 Constituent Assembly elections after the failure of the first Constituent Assembly to promulgate a new constitution. The legislature ended its term on 14 October 2017.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Surya Bahadur Thapa, the oldest member of the house, assumed chairmanship of the CA on January 20, 2014 and administered the oath of office to 565 lawmakers at the first meeting of the assembly on January 21, 2014. Leaders of the NC, CPN-UML and UCPN (Maoist) pledged to draft a new constitution within a year. More than 80% of the members are new faces.\n\nOn January 26, 2014, President Ram Baran Yadav called for the election of a Prime Minister and the formation of a consensus government within a week as per article 38(1) of the constitution which provides for the formation of a government through political understanding. The Nepali Congress obtained the support of the CPN-UML for a NC-led consensus government and the two parties also agreed to hold local body elections within six months and adopt a new constitution within a year. An all-party meeting followed at which the CPN-UML, UCPN (Maoist) and MPRF-Loktantrik expressed support for a government under Sushil Koirala. The RRP-N boycotted the meeting. Further discussions were held between the NC, CPN-UML and UCPN (Maoist) at which the Maoists expressed support for the idea of a NC-led government but did not agree to join the government and decided to stay in opposition. On February 2, 2014, the NC abandoned its pursuit of a consensus government under article 38(1) of the constitution after the UCPN (Maoist) and RPP-N, the third and fourth largest parties, decided not to join the government. The party has initiated talks with the CPN-UML to form a majority government under article 38(2) of the constitution.\n\nA total of thirty political parties and two independents were represented at the start of the second constituent assembly. However, some parties have merged and the number of parties has declined.\n\n"}
{"id": "30776166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30776166", "title": "Manufacturing Consent: Changes in the Labor Process under Monopoly Capitalism", "text": "Manufacturing Consent: Changes in the Labor Process under Monopoly Capitalism\n\nManufacturing Consent: Changes in the Labor Process under Monopoly Capitalism is a scholarly book written by British, sociological Marxist author Michael Burawoy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4799060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4799060", "title": "Marcus Nanotechnology Building", "text": "Marcus Nanotechnology Building\n\nThe Marcus Nanotechnology Building (MNB) is a Georgia Institute of Technology facility. The building was constructed on the site of the Electronics Research Building, the former home of GTRI's Information and Communications Laboratory. It was opened on April 24, 2009, as the Marcus Nanotechnology Research Center, a name it held until October 2013.\n\nThe Marcus Nanotechnology Building (MNB) is now the headquarters for the Institute of Electronics and Nanotechnology (IEN), one of Georgia Tech's several new Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (IRI). In addition to being the headquarters for the IEN, the building houses the largest cleanroom laboratory dedicated to the fabrication, characterization, and assembly of biomedical and semiconductor devices in the Southeast United States.\n\nThese shared-user open laboratories are part of the National Science Foundation's National Nanotechnology Infrastructure Network (NNIN), a network of 14 such facilities at universities around the US. The laboratories are available to global academics, industry and government personnel on a fee recovery basis enabling students, scientists and engineers who perform research on nanotechnology to study the characteristics and behavior of atoms and molecules, and to use that knowledge to create new materials and tiny nano-scale tools and machines.\n\nThe Information and Communications Laboratory was previously located on the site, and has been moved to GCATT. The Electronics Research Building, established in 1966, was demolished, and construction began in Fall 2006/Spring 2007.\n\nThe construction was funded by several donations, including $7 million from the State of Georgia, $15 million from the Marcus Foundation, and $36 million from an anonymous source.\n"}
{"id": "37031143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37031143", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Public Order (Cyprus)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Public Order (Cyprus)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus (, ) is one of the eleven Ministries of the Republic of Cyprus and is the Ministry responsible for the close review and consideration of the need to reform the existing legislation in a wide field of public and private law, such as criminal law, legislation that falls within the general concept of the administration of justice, family law, legislation in the fields of equality, human rights, the treatment of offenders and other.\n\nUnder the Ministry of Justice and Public Order fall agencies like the Cyprus Police and the Cyprus Prisons Department.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice immediately after the independence (from the 1959 interim period to 1982) was hosted in the Government Buildings in Demosthenes Severis Avenue known as Chief Colonial Secretary Office.\n\nIn 1982 the Ministry moved to Grivas Dighenis Avenue in a building opposite the Kykkos monastery dependency at Engomi, Nicosia where it remained up to 1993.\n\nAfter the renaming of the Ministry to Ministry of Justice and Public Order in 1993 it has moved to Heliopouleos Street in the building known as the \"Ellinas Clinic\" where it remained up to the year 2000. Since then it has moved to 125 Athalassas Avenue, Strovolos, Nicosia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2216647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2216647", "title": "Misrepresentation", "text": "Misrepresentation\n\nA concept of English law, a misrepresentation is an untrue or misleading statement of fact made during negotiations by one party to another, the statement then inducing that other party into the contract. The misled party may normally rescind the contract, and sometimes may be awarded damages as well (or instead of rescission).\n\nThe law of misrepresentation is an amalgam of contract and tort; and its sources are common law, equity and statute. The common law was amended by the Misrepresentation Act 1967. The general principle of misrepresentation has been adopted by the USA and various Commonwealth countries.\n\nA \"representation\" is a pre-contractual statement made during negotiations. If a representation has been incorporated into the contract as a term, then the normal remedies for breach of contract apply. Factors that determine whether or not a representation has become a term include:\n\nOtherwise, an action may lie in misrepresentation, and perhaps in the torts of negligence and deceit also. Although a suit for breach of contract is relatively straightforward, there are advantages in bringing a parallel suit in misrepresentation, because whereas repudiation is available only for breach of condition only, rescission is \"prima facie\" available for all misreps, subject to the provisions of s.2 of the Misrepresentation Act 1967, and subject to the inherent limitations of an equitable remedy.\n\nThere is no general duty of disclosure in English contract law, and one is normally not obliged to say anything. Ordinary contracts do not require \"good faith\" as such, and mere compliance with the law is sufficient. However in particular relationships silence may form the basis of an actionable misrepresentation:\n\n\nTo amount to a misrepresentation, the statement must be untrue or seriously misleading. A statement which is \"technically true\" but which gives a misleading impression is deemed an \"untrue statement\". If a misstatement is made and later the representor finds that it is false, it becomes fraudulent unless the representer updates the other party. If the statement is true at the time, but becomes untrue due to a change in circumstances, the representor must update the original statement. Actionable misrepresentations must be misstatements of fact or law: misstatements of opinion or intention are not deemed statements of fact; but if one party appears to have specialist knowledge of the topic, his \"opinions\" may be considered actionable misstatements of fact. For example, false statements made by a seller regarding the quality or nature of the property that the seller has may constitute misrepresentation.\n\nStatements of opinion are usually insufficient to amount to a misrepresentation as it would be unreasonable to treat personal opinions as \"facts\", as in \"Bisset v Wilkinson\" Exceptions can arise where opinions may be treated as \"facts\":\nStatements of intention do not constitute misrepresentations should they fail to come to fruition, since the time the statements were made they can not be deemed either true or false. However, an action can be brought if the intention never actually existed, as in \"Edgington v Fitzmaurice\".\n\nFor many years, statements of law were deemed incapable of amounting to misrepresentations because the law is \"equally accessible by both parties\" and is \"...as much the business of the plaintiff as of [the defendants] to know what the law [is].\". This view has changed, and it is now accepted that statements of law may be treated as akin to statements of fact. As stated by Lord Denning \"...the distinction between law and fact is illusory\".\n\nAn action in misrepresentation can only be brought by the misled party, or \"represent\". This means that only those who were an intended recipient of the representation may sue, as in \"Peek v Gurney\"\n\nIt is not necessary for the representation to have been be received directly; it is sufficient that the representation was made to another party with the intention that it would become known to a subsequent party and ultimately acted upon by them. However, it IS essential that the untruth originates from the defendant.\n\nThe misled party must show that he relied on the misstatement and was induced into the contract by it.\n\nIn \"Attwood v Small\" The seller, Small, made false claims about the capabilities of his mines and steelworks. The buyer, Attwood, said he would verify the claims before he bought, and he employed agents who declared that Small's claims were true. The House of Lords held that Attwood could not rescind the contract, as he did not rely on Small but instead relied on his agents. \"Edgington v Fitzmaurice\" confirmed further that a misrepresentation need not be the sole cause of entering a contract, for a remedy to be available, so long as it is an influence.\n\nA party induced by a misrepresentation is not obliged to check its veracity. In \"Redgrave v Hurd\" Redgrave, an elderly solicitor told Hurd, a potential buyer, that the practice earned £300 pa. Redgrave said Hurd could inspect the accounts to check the claim, but Hurd did not do so. Later, having signed a contract to join Redgrave as a partner, Hurd discovered the practice generated only £200 pa, and the accounts verified this figure. Lord Jessel MR held that the contract could be rescinded for misrepresentation, because Redgrave had made a misrepresentation, adding that Hurd was entitled to rely on the £300 statement.\n\nBy contrast, in \"Leaf v International Galleries\", where a gallery sold painting after wrongly saying it was a Constable, Lord Denning held that while there was neither breach of contract nor operative mistake, there WAS a misrepresentation; but, five years having passed, the buyer's right to rescind had lapsed. This suggests that, having relied on a misrepresentation, the misled party has the onus to discover the truth \"within a reasonable time\". In \"Doyle v Olby\" [1969], a party misled by a fraudulent misrepresentation was deemed NOT to have affirmed even after more than a year.\n\nThe common law was amended by the Misrepresentation Act 1967. (Although short and apparently succinct, the 1967 Act is widely regarded as a confusing and poorly drafted statute which has caused a number of difficulties, especially in relation to the basis of the award of damages. It was mildly amended by the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 and in 2012, but it escaped the attention of the consolidating Consumer Rights Act 2015).\n\nPrior to the Misrepresentation Act 1967, the common law deemed that there were two categories of misrepresentation: fraudulent and innocent. The effect of the act is primarily to create a new category by dividing innocent misrepresentation into two separate categories: negligent and \"wholly\" innocent; and it goes on to state the remedies in respect of each of the three categories. The point of the three categories is that the law recognises that the defendant may have been blameworthy to a greater or lesser extent; and the relative degrees of blameworthiness lead to differing remedies for the claimant.\n\nOnce misrepresentation has been proven, it is presumed to be \"negligent misrepresentation\", the default category. It then falls to the claimant to prove that the defendant's culpability was more serious and that the misrepresentation was fraudulent. Conversely, the defendant may try to show that his misrepresentation was innocent.\n\n\n\n\nNegligent misstatement is not strictly part of the law of misrepresentation, but is a tort based upon the 1964 \"obiter dicta\" in \"Hedley Byrne v Heller\" where the House of Lords found that a negligently-made statement (if relied upon) could be actionable provided a \"special relationship\" existed between the parties.\n\nSubsequently in \"Esso Petroleum Co Ltd v Mardon\", Lord Denning transported this tort into contract law, stating the rule as:\n\n\"...if a man, who has or professes to have special knowledge or skill, makes a representation by virtue thereof to another…with the intention of inducing him to enter into a contract with him, he is under a duty to use reasonable care to see that the representation is correct, and that the advice, information or opinion is reliable'.\n\nThe misled party may normally rescind the contract, and sometimes may be awarded damages as well (or instead of rescission).\n\nA contract vitiated by misrepresentation is voidable and not void \"ab initio\". The misled party may either (i) rescind, or (ii) affirm and continue to be bound. If the claimant chooses to rescind, the contract will still be deemed to have been valid up to the time it was avoided, so any transactions with a third party remains valid, and the third party will retain good title. Rescission can be effected either by informing the representor or by requesting an order from the court. Rescission is an equitable remedy which is not always available. Rescission requires the parties to be restored to their former positions; so if this is not possible, rescission is unavailable.\n\nA misled party who, knowing of the misrepresentation, fails to take steps to avoid the contract will be deemed to have affirmed through \"laches\", as in \"Leaf v International Galleries\"; and the claimant will be estopped from rescinding. The time limit for taking such steps varies depending on the type of misrepresentation. In cases of fraudulent misrepresentation, the time limit runs until when the misrepresentation ought to have been discovered, whereas in innocent misrepresentation, the right to rescission may lapse even before the represent can reasonably be expected to know about it.\n\nSometimes, third party rights may intervene and render rescission impossible. Say, if A misleads B and contracts to sell a house to him, and B later sells to C, the courts are unlikely to permit rescission as that would unfair impinge upon C.\n\nUnder Misrepresentations Act 1967 s. 2(2) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967, the court has discretion to award damages instead of rescission, \"if of opinion that it would be equitable to do so, having regard to the nature of the misrepresentation and the loss that would be caused by it if the contract were upheld, as well as to the loss that rescission would cause to the other party.\"\n\n\"Damages\" are monetary compensation for loss. In contract and tort, damages will be awarded if the breach of contract (or breach of duty) causes foreseeable loss.\n\n\nGiven the relative lack of blameworthiness of a non-fraudulent defendant (who is at worst merely careless, and at best may honestly \"believe on reasonable grounds\" that he told the truth) for many years lawyers presumed that for these two categories, damages would be on a contract/tort basis requiring reasonable foreseeability of loss.\n\nIn 1991, \"Royscot Trust Ltd v Rogerson\" changed all that. The court gave a literal interpretation of s.2 (which, to paraphrase, provides that where a person has been misled by a negligent misrepresentation then, if the misrepresentor would be liable to damages had the representation been made fraudulently, the defendant \"shall be so liable\"). The phrase shall be so liable was read literally to mean \"liable as in fraudulent misrepresentation\". So, under the Misrepresentation Act 1967, damages for negligent misrepresentation are calculated as if the defendant had been fraudulent, even if he has been merely careless.\n\nAlthough this was almost certainly not the intention of Parliament, no changes to the law have been made to address this discrepancy. This is known as the fiction of fraud and also extends to tortious liability.\n\nS.2 does not specify how \"damages in lieu\" should be determined, and interpretation of the statute is up to the courts.\n\nMisrepresentation is one of several vitiating factors that can affect the validity of a contract. Other vitiating factors include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52761721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52761721", "title": "New York City Tax Appeals Tribunal", "text": "New York City Tax Appeals Tribunal\n\nThe New York City Tax Appeals Tribunal is an administrative court of the New York City government that conducts trials and hears appeals regarding city-administered taxes (other than real estate taxes). It is a non-mayoral executive agency and is not part of the state Unified Court System.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17997607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17997607", "title": "Notary public (Florida)", "text": "Notary public (Florida)\n\nIn the U.S. state of Florida, a notary public is a public officer appointed by the governor of the state to take acknowledgments, administer oaths, attest to photocopies of certain documents, solemnize marriage, protest the non-acceptance or non-payment of negotiable instruments , and perform other duties specified by law.\n\nA notary may only perform a notarial act upon receipt of satisfactory proof of identity (i.e. a driver's license or other form of identification card), or by the notary's own personal knowledge of the person appearing before them, or upon the sworn statement of two witnesses who personally know the person whose signature is to be authenticated. A notary may not notarize their own signature, or the signature of their spouse, parent, or child.\n\nNotaries Public in Florida have the authority to take acknowledgments, administer oaths, solemnize marriage, certify the contents of a safe-deposit box, certify the Vehicle Identification Number of a motor vehicle, and certify copies of non-recordable documents. \nAny individual at least 18 years of age who is a resident of Florida may apply for and obtain commission as a notary public, provided that they have obtained a $7,500.00 public bond from an insurance company, and taken a notary education course administered by an authorized course provider. Such commission is usually obtained by legal secretaries, paralegals, and attorneys for use in their place of work, where the notarization of client signatures is a requirement on many court pleadings and other documents. However, occupation in the legal profession is not a prerequisite to becoming a notary, and a person of any profession may apply for and obtain a commission. Many banks also have notaries on staff to notarize the signatures of their customers.\n\nA notary seal of the rubber stamp type is required to be affixed to all notarized paper documents. The rubber stamp must include the commissioned name of the notary public, the words \"Notary Public-State of Florida\", the notary's commission number, and the date on which the notary's commission expires. Prior to the mid-1970s, the only statutory requirement regarding notarial seals was that one be used and that it include the words \"Notary Public\" and \"State of Florida at Large\"; the name of the notary was optional, and the law did not specify what types of seals were permissible. This law was later amended to state that the seal must be round in design and of either the rubber stamp or impression type. In the early 1990s, the statute was again changed to require a rubber stamp seal, with an impression type seal being optional and not acceptable unless used in conjunction with a rubber stamp. However, many notaries continue to use the impression seal with their rubber stamp to allow for easy detection when trying to determine which document is an original. This process is made more difficult for notaries who only use a rubber stamp seal, as the Florida statutes require that the seal be affixed in only photographically-reproducible black ink.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "367855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367855", "title": "Open-source record label", "text": "Open-source record label\n\nOpen-source record labels are record labels that release music under copyleft licenses, that is, licenses that allow free redistribution and may allow free modification of the tracks.\n\nThey hold that the fight over free, libre, and open content and media is a struggle over the freedoms of expression and speech, with the goal of opening up the possibilities of media through open collaboration. This is a reaction against what some musicians see as corporate control of music via means of copyright. They believe that creativity requires that musicians reappropriate and reinterpret music and sounds to enable them to create truly innovative music. Additionally, copyleft enables musicians to develop music collaboratively and equitably.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5639380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5639380", "title": "Panacea Society", "text": "Panacea Society\n\nThe Panacea Society was a millenarian religious group in Bedford, England. Founded in 1919, it followed the teachings of the Devonshire prophetess Joanna Southcott, who died in 1814, and campaigned for Southcott's sealed box of prophecies to be opened according to her instructions. The society believed Bedford to be the original site of the Garden of Eden.\n\nThe Society's inspiration was the teachings of the Devonshire prophetess Joanna Southcott (1750–1814). It was founded by Mabel Barltrop (1866-1934) in 1919 at 12 Albany Road, Bedford. A clergyman's widow, Barltrop declared herself the 'daughter of God', took the name \"Octavia\" and believed herself to be the Shiloh of Southcott's prophecies. She and 12 apostles founded the Society, originally called the \"Community of the Holy Ghost\".\n\nA central purpose of the Society was to persuade 24 Anglican bishops to open Southcott's sealed box of prophecies, and to this end, advertisements were placed in newspapers, both national and local. In the late 1920s and early 1930s the Society generated over 100,000 petitions for the box to be opened. The Society claimed that the box was secreted in England. Some have claimed that it was opened in 1927 and found to contain a broken horse pistol and a lottery ticket.\n\nDespite this setback, the group continued placing adverts in newspapers calling for action from the Church of England. In the 1970s the Society rented billboards which proclaimed \"War, disease, crime and banditry, distress of nations and perplexity will increase until the Bishops open Joanna Southcott's box.\"\n\nThe Society had its headquarters on Albany Road, close to the remains of Bedford Castle. Another property, an end-of-terrace house on Albany Road named \"The Ark\", was maintained as a residence for the Messiah after the Second Coming.\n\nAlthough small in size, the Society was relatively wealthy, owning several properties in the Castle Road area of Bedford. By 2001, when the Society started to sell off some of its property in order to retain its status as a charity, it was reported to have assets valued at £14m.\n\nIn the 1930s, about 70 members were said to be living in the Bedford community. In 1967, the \"Bedfordshire Times\" reported about 30 members living there. The last member of the Society, Ruth Klein, died in 2012, when the Society ceased to exist as a religious community.\n\nWhilst the religious society is no longer functioning, there still exists a charity whose main remit is to sponsor academic research into the history and development of prophetic and millenarian movements, as well as provide financial assistance to support the work of registered charities and recognised groups concerned with poverty and health in the Bedford area. The charity officially changed its name to The Panacea Charitable Trust in 2012.\n\nIn late 2012, it was announced that the charitable trust would be opening a museum detailing the history of the society, at 9 Newnham Road, Bedford. The Panacea Museum is in ‘Castleside’, a Victorian house that was part of the community's headquarters. It tells the story of the Panacea Society and other similar religious groups.\n\nThe museum also incorporates several other buildings, set within the gardens, that formed the original community's ‘campus’. The museum is open every Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday between February half term and the end of October.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17831483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17831483", "title": "Partially disclosed principal", "text": "Partially disclosed principal\n\nA partially disclosed principal is one whose agent reveals that he has a principal, but does not reveal the principal's identity. This concept has important implications in liability law. It is in contrast to a disclosed principal and undisclosed principal.\n\n"}
{"id": "24349164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24349164", "title": "Regulatory risk differentiation", "text": "Regulatory risk differentiation\n\nRegulatory risk differentiation is the process used by a regulatory authority (the regulator) to systemically treat entities differently based on the regulator's assessment of the risks of the entity's non-compliance.\n\nRegulators can include law enforcement agencies. Entities refers to those under the authority/control of the regulator – in most cases ranging from individuals to companies to legal entities to multinationals operating within the regulator's jurisdiction.\n\nThe process requires the regulator to directly link a robust risk assessment to a suggested regulatory response (e.g. financial penalties, criminal imprisonment). Regulatory risk differentiation is also referred to as the Compliance Model in some regulatory agencies. See for example the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority risk differentiation approach known as: PAIRS / SOARS. PAIRS is the Probability And Impact Rating System, while SOARS is the Supervisory Oversight And Response System.\n\nThe simplest compliance model is a regulatory framework or model known as dualistic, where the regulator reacts to an entity's behaviours depending on whether the behaviour is seen as either right or wrong. This is also known as a black and white response, and is often used for strict liability offences in law.\n\nIt is a significant improvement to shift to a compliance continuum (or spectrum), where the regulator reacts to a spectrum of compliance behaviours. The Australian Customs Office applies a compliance continuum.\n\nWhen the reaction of the regulator is tied to the behaviour, it is known as a responsive compliance model. The responsive compliance model was suggested by Ian Ayres and John Braithwaite in their book \"Responsive Regulation: Transcending the deregulation debate\" which built on earlier work by John Scholz.\n\nThe Ayres and Braithwaite compliance model was elegantly represented as a compliance pyramid.\n\nThe shape of the compliance pyramid indicates:\n\nThe choice of remedy (e.g. financial penalties, criminal imprisonment) imposed by the regulator becomes increasingly severe higher up the pyramid – with the view of creating an incentive for entities to move towards more compliant behaviours. The Australian Taxation Office (ATO) uses a compliance pyramid.\n\nIn the mid-1990s the ATO's Cash Economy Project further developed their compliance pyramid. An entity's apparent motivation for compliance or non-compliance, based on evidence (known as their motivational posture), was explicitly coupled to a suggested response.\n\nIn this version of the compliance pyramid, four broad categories of client (called archetypes) were defined by their underlying motivational postures:\n\nThis approach has been widely adopted, particularly within Australia. Several other regulators have similar approaches. It is also described as the enforcement pyramid by some regulators although enforcement is only one of the compliance strategies implicit in the model.\n\nThe strength of the model is the regulator being seen to apply the right remedy to the right situation, by taking an entity's apparent motivation (including their efforts to comply) into account. See for example Julia Black's paper: \"'Chancer', 'Failure' or 'Trier'? Regulatory Conversations and the Construction of Identities\" July 2008 or \"The ATO Compliance Model in Action: A Case Study of Building and Construction by Neal Shover, Jenny Job and Anne Carroll\" and \"Reducing the risk of policy failure: challenges for regulatory compliance\"\n\nIn the OECD paper \"Reducing the Risk to Policy Failure: Challenges for Regulatory Compliance\" the regulatory responses were distilled down to ensuring that clients were ready, willing and able to comply.\n\nA similar framework is used in the UK Pension Regulator approach.\n\nAnother way of looking at this is as a risk bow-tie. See bow tie diagrams in risk management\n\nOrganisations in oil and gas, mining, aviation, industrials and finance have had success using bowties.\n\nThese compliance enhancement strategies fit into a standard structure:\n\nSome commentators do not believe that the compliance pyramid applies when legitimate differences of views exist as to compliant behaviour. Regulators all need to establish their positions in this situation, but it is clear that some regulators do still apply the compliance pyramid when the law is uncertain.\n\nExplicitly considering the likelihood and consequence of the risk of regulatory non-compliance\n\nSome regulators vary regulatory risk differentiation approaches by mapping suggested remedies to an entity's perceived risk of non-compliance. This approach has been used by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority, the Australian Taxation Office and the UK Pension Regulator\n\nExplicitly considering the likelihood and consequences of an entity possibly breaking a law is a requirement of the UK Statutory Code of Practice for Regulators which emerged from the 2005 Hampton Report \"Reducing administrative burdens – effective inspection and enforcement\". The later Macrory Review \"Regulatory Justice – making sanctions effective\" effectively codifies the Ayres and Braithwaite Compliance Pyramid into the UK Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008.\n\nIn these compliance models the possibility of entities breaking a law has both a likelihood of occurrence and a consequence of occurrence, known as a 'risk event'. Considering entities' likelihood of not complying and the consequences of their not complying usually provides a 'power distribution' of a few large consequence or higher likelihood clients and many more lower consequence/likelihood ones.\n\nThis can be represented as a scatter plot on a risk matrix, as shown in the adjacent diagram.\n\nThe scatterplot risk matrix to the left shows that most entities are compliant most of the time – in other words, assessed as both lower consequence and lower likelihood of their not complying with the law.\n\nFrom a risk management perspective the regulator has a more significant interest in higher consequence clients or events than lower consequence. The next two diagrams build on the scatterplot diagram to the left.\n\nIn this example, The ATO links its strategies to the likelihood and/or consequences of entities not complying with a law. The ATO risk matrix to the left shows how the ATO divides its clients into four categories, and allocates appropriate detection strategies to each category.\n\nThese strategies are proactive and continuous for higher consequence, reactive and periodic for lower consequence. The strategies are reviewing for taxpayers more likely to break the law, and only monitoring for those less likely.\n\nThe diagram to the left provides more detail, giving names to each category of client, providing all of the strategies - deter, detect and deal with strategies, and the strategies' associated activities.\n\nIt is important to note that the boundaries between category are able to be moved to allocate more or fewer clients to each category. It is normal to see fewer higher likelihood and/or consequence clients rather than 50% of the population or 50% of the assessed likelihood or consequence. In other words, the boundary is shifted so there can be a strong focus on the few assessed to be higher risk.\n\nThis allows more resources to be allocated to more intensive strategies focusing on higher risk entities, providing an incentive to entities to want to be seen to be compliant. The robustness of the risk assessments, and the quality of the data on which the assessments rely, are therefore very important.\n\nThe diagram below shows how end to end risk management steps (from ISO 31000) align with risk differentiation and the risk bow-tie.\n\nIn September 2009 the UK Pension Regulator, which uses this approach, was shortlisted for a Better Regulation Award\n\nThe above approach was discussed in the ATO Commissioners speech \"Do you see what I see\" given to the Australian Tax Teachers Association in January 2010. In June 2010 the ATO released its revised \"Large Business and Tax Compliance\" booklet that detailed its approach to risk differentiation in the Large Market\n\nIn January 2011 the risk differentiation approach was also 'highly commended' in the annual Australian Comcover Risk awards The entire approach is mapped out in the UNSW ATAX 2012 paper 'New dimensions in regulatory compliance' \n"}
{"id": "430699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430699", "title": "START I", "text": "START I\n\nSTART (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty) was a bilateral treaty between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) on the reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms. The treaty was signed on 31 July 1991 and entered into force on 5 December 1994. The treaty barred its signatories from deploying more than 6,000 nuclear warheads atop a total of 1,600 inter-continental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and bombers. START negotiated the largest and most complex arms control treaty in history, and its final implementation in late 2001 resulted in the removal of about 80 percent of all strategic nuclear weapons then in existence. Proposed by United States President Ronald Reagan, it was renamed START I after negotiations began on the second START treaty.\n\nThe START I treaty expired 5 December 2009. On 8 April 2010, the replacement New START treaty was signed in Prague by United States President Barack Obama and Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. Following ratification by the U.S. Senate and the Federal Assembly of Russia, it went into force on 26 January 2011. This Treaty was the first to provide tremendous reductions of American and Soviet/Russian strategic nuclear weapons.\n\nThe START proposal was first announced by United States President Ronald Reagan in a commencement address at his alma mater, Eureka College on 9 May 1982, and presented by President Reagan in Geneva on 29 June 1982. Reagan proposed a dramatic reduction in strategic forces in two phases, which he referred to as SALT III at the time. The first phase would reduce overall warhead counts on any missile type to 5,000, with an additional limit of 2,500 on ICBMs. Additionally, a total of 850 ICBMs would be allowed, with a limit of 110 \"heavy throw\" missiles like the SS-18, with additional limits on the total \"throw weight\" of the missiles as well. The second phase introduced similar limits on heavy bombers and their warheads, and other strategic systems as well.\n\nAt the time the US had a commanding lead in strategic bombers. The US B-52 force, while aged, was a credible strategic threat but was only equipped with AGM-86 cruise missiles, beginning in 1982, because of Soviet air defense improvements in the early 1980s. The US also had begun to introduce the new B-1B Lancer quasi-stealth bomber and was secretly developing the Advanced Technology Bomber (ATB) project that would eventually result in the B-2 Spirit stealth bomber. The USSR's force was of little threat to the US, on the other hand, as it was tasked almost entirely with attacking US convoys in the Atlantic and land targets on the Eurasian landmass. Although the USSR had 1,200 medium and heavy bombers, only 150 of them (Tupolev Tu-95s and Myasishchev M-4s) could reach North America (the latter only with in-flight refueling). They also faced difficult problems in penetrating the admittedly smaller and less heavily defended US airspace. Possessing too few bombers available when compared to US bomber numbers was evened out by the US forces having to penetrate the much larger and heavier defended Soviet airspace. This changed when new Tu-95MS and Tu-160 bombers appeared in 1984 equipped with the first Soviet AS-15 cruise missiles. By limiting the phase-in as it was proposed, the US would be left with a strategic advantage, for a time.\n\nAs \"Time\" magazine put it at the time, \"Under Reagan's ceilings, the US would have to make considerably less of an adjustment in its strategic forces than would the Soviet Union. That feature of the proposal will almost certainly prompt the Soviets to charge that it is unfair and one-sided. No doubt some American arms-control advocates will agree, accusing the Administration of making the Kremlin an offer it cannot possibly accept—a deceptively equal-looking, deliberately nonnegotiable proposal that is part of what some suspect is the hardliners' secret agenda of sabotaging disarmament so that the US can get on with the business of rearmament.\" However, \"Time\" did point out that, \"The Soviets' monstrous ICBMs have given them a nearly 3-to-1 advantage over the US in 'throw weight'—the cumulative power to 'throw' megatons of death and destruction at the other nation.\"\n\nThree institutes ran studies in regards to the estimated costs that the United States government would have to pay to implement START I which included the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the Foreign Relations Committee (SFRC), and the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA). In regards to the CBO estimates, it was assumed that the full-implementation cost would consist of a one-time cost of $410–1,830 million and continuing annual costs of $100–390 million. The SFRC had estimates of $200–1,000 million for one-time costs and that total inspection costs over the 15-year period of the treaty would be $1,250-2,050 million. Finally, the IDA estimated only in regards to the verification costs which they claimed to be around $760 million.\n\nIn addition to the costs of the implementation of the treaty, the United States was also paying aid to the former Soviet Union Republics through the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program (Nunn-Lugar Program). This program added $591 million to the costs of implementing the START I program in the former Soviet Union, which would almost double the cost of the program for the United States.\n\nAfter the implementation of the treaty, the former Soviet Union’s stock of nuclear weapons would fall from 12,000 to 3,500. The United States would also save money since it would not have to be concerned with the upkeep and innovations towards its own nuclear forces. The CBO estimated that this would amount to a total saving of $46 billion in the first five years of the treaty and around $130 billion through 2010. This would pay for the cost of the implementation of the treaty about 20 times over.\n\nThe other risks associated with START is the failure of compliance on the side of Russia. The Senate Defence Committee expressed concerns that Russia could covertly produce missiles, produce false numbers regarding numbers of warheads, and monitoring cruise missiles. The Joint Chiefs of Staff assessment of these situations determined that the risk of a significant violation of the treaty was within acceptable limits. Another risk would be the ability for Russia to perform espionage during the inspection of United States’ bases and military facilities. The risk of this was also determined to be an acceptable factor by the assessment.\n\nConsidering the potential savings from the implementation of START I and the relatively low risk factor included, Ronald Reagan and the United States Government deemed it a reasonable plan of action towards the goal of disarmament.\n\nNegotiations for START I began in May 1982, though continued negotiation of the START process was delayed several times because US agreement terms were considered non-negotiable by pre-Gorbachev Soviet rulers. President Reagan's introduction of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) program in 1983 was viewed as a threat by the Soviet Union, and the Soviets withdrew from setting a timetable for further negotiations. In January 1985 however, U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrey Gromyko discussed a formula for a three part negotiation strategy that included intermediate-range forces, strategic defense, and missile defense. During the Reykjavik summit between Presidents Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev, negotiations towards the implementation of the START Program were accelerated. Negotiations turned towards the reduction of strategic weapons when the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty was signed in December 1987. Despite this, a dramatic nuclear arms race proceeded during the 1980s, and essentially ended in 1991 by nuclear parity preservation at a level of more than ten thousand strategic warheads on both sides.\n\nThe verification regimes in arms control treaties contain many tools that enable them to hold Parties accountable for their actions and violations of their treaty agreements. The START Treaty verification provisions were the most complicated and demanding of any agreement at the time as it provided twelve different types of inspection. Data exchanges and declarations between Parties became required which included exact quantities, technical characteristics, locations, movements, and status of all offensive nuclear threats. The National technical means of verification (NTM) provision protected satellites and other information-gathering systems controlled by the verifying side as they helped to verify adherence of international treaties. The International technical means of verification provision protected the multilateral technical systems specified in other treaties. Cooperative measures were established to facilitate verification by the NTM which included displaying items in plain sight and not hiding them from detection. The new on-site inspections (OSI) and Perimeter and Portal Continuous Monitoring (PPCM) provisions both helped to maintain the integrity of the Treaty by providing a regulatory system manned by a representative from the verifying side at all times. In addition, access to telemetry from ballistic missile flight tests are now required, including exchanges of tapes and ban on encryption and encapsulation from both Parties.\n\nNegotiations that led to the signing of this Treaty began in May 1982. During November 1983, the Soviet Union \"discontinued\" communication with the United States after American intermediate-range missiles were deployed in Europe. During January 1985, U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrey Gromyko negotiated a three-part plan that included strategic weapons, intermediate missiles, and missile defense which received a lot of attention at the Reykjavik summit between Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev and ultimately led to the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty in December 1987. Talk of a comprehensive strategic arms reduction continued and the START Treaty was officially signed by U.S. President George H.W. Bush and Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev on 31 July 1991.\n\nThree hundred sixty-five B-52s were flown to the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Arizona. The bombers were stripped of all usable parts, then chopped into five pieces by a 13,000-pound steel blade dropped from a crane. The guillotine sliced four times on each plane, severing the wings and leaving the fuselage in three pieces. The ruined B-52s remained in place for three months so that Russian satellites could confirm that the bombers had been destroyed, after which they were sold for scrap.\n\nIt remains in effect between the U.S. and Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine. The latter three became non-nuclear weapons states under the Treaty on the non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 1 July 1968 (NPT) as they committed to do under the Lisbon Protocol (Protocol to the Treaty Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms) after becoming independent nations in the wake of the breakup of the Soviet Union.\n\nBelarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine have disposed of all their nuclear weapons or transferred them to Russia, while the U.S. and Russia have reduced the capacity of delivery vehicles to 1,600 each, with no more than 6,000 warheads.\n\nA report by the US State Department called \"Adherence to and Compliance With Arms Control, Nonproliferation and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments\" which was released on July 28, 2010, stated that Russia was not in full compliance with the treaty when it expired on 5 December 2009. The report did not specifically identify Russia's compliance issues.\n\nOne incident that occurred in regards to Russia violating the START I treaty occurred in 1994. It was announced by ACDA Director John Holum in a congressional testimony that Russia had converted its SS-19 ICBM into a space-launch vehicle without notifying the appropriate parties. Russia justified this incident claiming that it did not have to follow all of START’s reporting policies in regards to missiles that had been recreated into space-launch vehicles. In addition to the SS-19, Russia was also reportedly using SS-25 missiles to assemble space-launch vehicles. The issue that the United States had with this was that it did not have accurate numbers and locations of Russian ICBM’s with these violations. The dispute was later resolved in 1995.\n\nSTART I expired 5 December 2009. Both sides agreed to continue observing the terms of the treaty until a new agreement is reached. There are proposals to renew and expand the treaty, supported by U.S. President Barack Obama. Sergei Rogov, director of the Institute of the U.S. and Canada, said: \"Obama supports sharp reductions in nuclear arsenals and I believe that Russia and the U.S. may sign in the summer or fall of 2009 a new treaty that would replace START-1\". He added that a new deal would only happen if Washington abandoned plans to place elements of a missile shield in central Europe. He expressed willingness \"to make new steps in the sphere of disarmament\", however, saying they were waiting for the U.S. to abandon attempts to \"surround Russia with a missile defense ring\". This referred to the placement of ten interceptor missiles in Poland, as well as an accompanying radar in the Czech Republic.\n\nRussian President Dmitri Medvedev, said, the day after the U.S. elections, in his first state of the nation address, that Russia would move to deploy short-range Iskander missile systems in the western exclave of Kaliningrad \"to neutralize if necessary the anti-ballistic missile system in Europe\". Russia insists that any movement towards a new START should be a legally binding document, and must, then, set lower ceilings on the number of nuclear warheads, and their delivery vehicles.\n\nOn 17 March 2009, Russian President Dmitri Medvedev signaled that Russia would begin a \"large-scale\" rearmament and renewal of Russia's nuclear arsenal. President Medvedev accused NATO of pushing ahead with expansion near Russian borders and ordered that this rearmament commence in 2011 with increased army, naval, and nuclear capabilities. Additionally, the head of Russia's strategic missile forces, Nikolai Solovtsov, told news agencies that Russia would start deploying its next-generation RS-24 missiles after the 5 December expiry of the START-1 treaty with the United States. Russia hopes to change the START-1 treaty with a new accord. The increased tensions come despite the warming of relations between the United States and Russia in the two years since U.S. President Barack Obama took office.\n\nOn 4 May 2009, the United States and Russia began the process of renegotiating START, as well as counting both nuclear warheads and their delivery vehicles when making a new agreement. While setting aside problematic issues between the two countries, both sides agreed to make further cuts in the number of warheads they have deployed to around 1,000 to 1,500 each. The United States has said they are open to a Russian proposal to use radar in Azerbaijan rather than Eastern Europe for the proposed missile system. The Bush Administration insisted that the Eastern Europe defense system was intended as a deterrent for Iran, while the Kremlin feared that it could be used against Russia. The flexibility by both sides to make compromises now will lead to a new phase of arms reduction in the future.\n\nA \"Joint understanding for a follow-on agreement to START-1\" was signed by Presidents Barack Obama and Dmitri Medvedev in Moscow on 6 July 2009. This will reduce the number of deployed warheads on each side to 1,500–1,675 on 500–1,100 delivery systems. A new treaty was to be signed before START-1 expired in December 2009 and the reductions are to be achieved within seven years. After many months of negotiations, Presidents Obama and Medvedev signed the successor treaty, Measures to Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, in Prague, Czech Republic on 8 April 2010.\n\nMain article New START Treaty\n\nThe New START Treaty imposed even more limitations on the United States and Russia which reduced them to both significantly less strategic arms within seven years from when it enters into full force. Organized into three tiers, the new Treaty focusses on the Treaty itself, Protocol which contains additional rights and obligations regarding the Treaty provisions, and Technical Annexes to the protocol.\n\nThese limits were based on stringent analysis conducted by Department of Defense planners in support of the 2010 Nuclear Posture Review. These aggregate limits consists of 1,550 nuclear warheads which includes warheads on deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM), warheads on deployed submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBM), and even any deployed heavy bomber equipped for nuclear armaments. This is 74 percent fewer than the limit previously set in the 1991 Treaty and 30 percent fewer than the limit of the 2002 Moscow Treaty. Both parties will also be limited to a combined total of 800 deployed and non-deployed ICBM launchers, SLBM launchers, and heavy bombers equipped for nuclear armaments. There is also a separate limit of 700 deployed ICBMs, deployed SLBMs, and deployed heavy bombers equipped for nuclear armaments which is less than half the corresponding strategic nuclear delivery vehicle limit imposed in the previous Treaty. Although these new restrictions have been set, the new Treaty does not contain any limitations regarding the testing, development, or deployment of current or planned U.S. missile defense programs and low-range conventional strike capabilities.\n\nThe duration of the new Treaty is ten years and can be extended for a period of no more than five years at a time. It includes a standard withdrawal clause like most arms control agreements. The 2002 Moscow Treaty has been superseded by thus subsequent Treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1778868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1778868", "title": "Salt tax", "text": "Salt tax\n\nA salt tax was a tax levied directly on salt, usually proportional to the amount of salt purchased. In ancient times, salt was extremely valuable as a preservant. Words such as \"salary\" are derived from the same root as salt and indicate its vitality to civilizations. As an example, ancient \"salaries\" could literally be quantities of salt.\n\nDue to the scarcity and importance of salt, levying a tax on its commerce was extremely lucrative, but also widely despised and controversial.\n\nNotable examples of salt taxation throughout history include:\n\nIn 2014, it is still illegal in certain provinces of China to use salt from a neighbor city.\n"}
{"id": "1252163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252163", "title": "Select Committee on Reserves (Reserve 43131) Bill 2003", "text": "Select Committee on Reserves (Reserve 43131) Bill 2003\n\nThe Select Committee on Reserves (Reserve 43131) Bill 2003 is an Australian select committee that investigated the eviction of the Swan Valley Nyungah Community (SVNC) from their traditional land through the use of the Reserves (Reserve 43131) Bill 2003. It investigated the motives of the Western Australian Gallop government in proposing and passing the bill.\n\nThe Nyungah Aboriginal peoples have made attempts to reclaim their traditional land since 1919 when the Guildford Aboriginals were transhipped to the Moore River native settlement. Robert Bropho, an Aboriginal elder, and his extended family campaigned vigorously for the right to occupy the area which presently takes in Reserve 43131. The SVNAC was established in 1977 and under the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\" they were given control of the reserve.\n\nOn 12 February 1999 a 15-year-old Aboriginal woman named Susan Taylor committed suicide in the reserve and on 22–30 October 2001 a coronial inquiry was held. The inquest investigated the circumstances in which Taylor and other Aboriginal young people lived. It accepted evidence that rape and sexual abuse of Aboriginal minors was widespread in Western Australia; that sexually transmitted diseases were higher than with non-Aboriginal children; that Aboriginal mortality rates are many times higher than that of the non-Aboriginal community and that drug taking with Aboriginal people was a major problem. The Coroner also heard evidence \"regarding alleged sexual abuse taking place in locations near the Reserve by Caucasian males providing paint or glue to young people for sexual favours. Allegations were also made against Bropho of sexual misconduct, involving Taylor and her mother Lena Spratt. An allegation of indecent assault made by Taylor against Bropho's son, Richard Bropho, was not pursued due to her death and a lack of corroborating evidence. Robert and Richard Bropho have strenuously denied these allegations.\" (2.28, page 57, \"Select Committee\") The coroner found that government departments should not be restricted from Aboriginal reserves due to the alleged situation of abuse in Aboriginal communities. Allegations were also made that Robert Bropho had stopped the Aboriginal Medical Service from visiting the reserve due to the death of an infant, and in 1996 had also stopped the Department of Family and Children’s Services after a child had disclosed inappropriate touching by older boys.\n\nIn the aftermath of the coronial inquiry, the Western Australian government established an inquiry entitled \"Inquiry into Response by Government Agencies to Complaints of Family Violence and Child Abuse in Aboriginal Communities\", or better known as the \"Gordon Inquiry\" after the chairwoman, Family Court Magistrate Sue Gordon. It was announced on 29 November 2001 by the Premier of Western Australia, Geoff Gallop. Its terms of reference were to examine the way that \"Government agencies dealt with issues of violence and child sexual abuse at the Swan Valley Nyoongar community\"; to examine \"how State Government agencies respond to evidence of family violence and child sexual abuse that may be occurring in Aboriginal communities generally\" and to give \"recommendations on practical solutions for addressing incidents of sexual abuse in Aboriginal communities, including any necessary legislative and administrative measures\".\n\nPublished on 31 July 2002 the \"Gordon Report\" made a number of recommendations in respect of the Swan Valley Nyungah Community and government agencies.\n\nThe Report of the Upper House Select Committee on Reserves (Reserve 43131) Bill 2003 found that Premier Geoff Gallop’s decision “to act rapidly, by-passing all normal processes, was justified on false information”. It also found that the Government “was not in a position to accommodate former residents of the SVNC quickly” and had “significantly underestimated the number of families and individuals requiring assistance”. The Select Committee made findings against the conduct of Premier Gallop’s media adviser Kieran Murphy, who promised an exclusive story to newspaper journalist Colleen Egan. The report concluded that this “made Mr Murphy’s active participation in decision making all the more improper”, “In particular, Mr Murphy’s obligation to deliver to Ms Egan a dramatic and media-worthy response mitigated against a considered and measured resolution” The Select Committee also found against Sean Walsh, Premier Gallop’s Chief of Staff. The Report concluded that he had “completely bypassed the convention that public servants should advise vigorously and honestly and governments should decide in the light of their advice”. It suggested that Walsh's conduct constituted a disciplinary offence under section 74 of the 1994 Public Sector Management Act.\n\nThe Select Committee also made findings against Richard Curry, Director General of the Department of Indigenous Affairs and Jane Brazier, Director General of the Department of Community Development, who “gave responses to the Premier based on incorrect, misleading and unsubstantiated anecdotal evidence” and did not test “the veracity of information given to them or their departments in areas that they should have known to be a government priority”. Curry and Brazier had “no proper basis for providing advice to the Premier” as their departments were “inactive in regard to the Lord Street Camp”. The Directors General “hadn't checked what their departments were doing before making their decision”.\n\nMagistrate Sue Gordon, who was interviewed by the Select Committee and said: “I would not single out the Swan Valley Nyungah Community. That was just in the media the most because of Mr Bropho and the allegations against him. There are allegations against a lot of other so-called leaders but they do not get as much publicity”. Gordon, who said the Swan Valley Nyungah Community was “an adequate and reasonably well maintained facility” also said \"I do not think there are any similarities whatsoever between a management order and a memorandum of understanding”.\n\n"}
{"id": "4176551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176551", "title": "Shepard's Citations", "text": "Shepard's Citations\n\nShepard's Citations is a citator used in United States legal research that provides a list of all the authorities citing a particular case, statute, or other legal authority. The verb Shepardizing refers to the process of consulting Shepard's to see if a case has been overturned, reaffirmed, questioned, or cited by later cases. Although the name is trademarked, it is also used informally by legal professionals to describe citators in general—for example, Westlaw's similar tool called Key Cite.\n\nThe name derives from a legal service begun by Frank Shepard (1848–1902) in 1873, when Shepard began publishing these lists in a series of books indexed to different jurisdictions. Initially, the product was called Shepard’s Adhesive Annotations. The citations were printed on gummed, perforated sheets, which could be divided and pasted onto pages of case law. Known as “stickers,” these were literally torn to bits and stuck to pertinent margins of case reporters. \n\nBy the early 20th century, the Frank Shepard Company was binding the citations into maroon volumes with Shepard’s Citations stamped in gold on their spines, much like the ones still found on library shelves.\n\nUnder the leadership of William Guthrie Packard, the company endured the Great Depression and continued to grow. It moved to Colorado Springs in 1948; in 1951, it adopted the name Shepard's Citations, Inc. In 1966, Shepard's Citations was acquired by McGraw Hill.\n\nIn 1996, Shepard's was purchased by Times Mirror and Reed Elsevier (owner of LexisNexis since 1994). In 1998, LexisNexis bought full ownership of Shepard's. After this acquisition, LexisNexis engaged in a \"multi-million-dollar Citations Redesign (CR) project\" which \"redesigned the way we process case law and citations.\"\n\nIn March 1999, LexisNexis released an online version of the Shepard's Citation Service. While print versions of Shepard's remain in use, their use is declining. Although learning to Shepardize in print was once a rite of passage for all first-year law students, the Shepard's Citations booklets in hard copy format are extremely cryptic compared to the online version, because of the need to cram as much information about as many cases in as little space as possible. \n\nShepard's paper format consists of long tables of citations (with full case titles omitted) preceded by one or two-letter codes indicating their relationship to the case being Shepardized. Before Lexis became widely available, generations of lawyers (and law clerks and assistants) had to manually locate the Shepard's entry for a case, decipher all the cryptic abbreviations, then manually retrieve all the cases which were marked by Shepard's as criticizing or overruling a particular case, to determine whether the later cases had directly overruled that particular case on the specific issue for which one was interested. In many jurisdictions in the U.S., it is still possible to cite a case as good law even though it has been overruled, as long as it was overruled on another issue and not the specific issue for which it is being cited. \n\nIn 2004, market research by LexisNexis indicated that most attorneys and librarians conduct the majority of their research online, but \"that there are a number of experienced attorneys, principally in smaller firms, who still prefer print and who are extremely unlikely to change their ways.\"\n\nThe company representative added that:Given the ripe old ages at which many lawyers continue to practice their profession, we don’t see the market for Shepard’s in print disappearing any time soon. Clearly, subscription lists for Shepard’s products are declining as online usage grows. Attrition has been steepest in large law firms, where relatively junior associates conduct a great deal of citations research online. Attrition has been less steep in libraries and small firms where attorneys who prefer print continue to do their research. For many years, attrition in academic law libraries was relatively low. Many law school libraries continued to retain relatively substantial collections of Shepard’s in print. In recent years, attrition has increased—especially in law schools that no longer teach their students how to Shepardize in print. But because many law school libraries are open to the public (or at least to graduates of the school), including practicing attorneys in the communities they serve, a typical law school library continues to retain at least a basic collection of Shepard’s print products.<br>...<br>After Shepard’s became a part of LexisNexis, we totally redesigned the way we process case law and citations. The multi-million-dollar Citations Redesign (CR) project was intended to eliminate duplication and allow us to deliver current, accurate information unmatched by our competition. The ability to produce Shepard’s print pages quickly and efficiently was built into the CR requirements—another factor contributing to the continuing viability of Shepard’s in print.\nToday, LexisNexis users can Shepardize most citations online; cases displayed on LexisNexis bear a \"Shepardize\" link in their header and nearly always show an icon in the upper left corner of the Web page indicating the status of the case as citable authority. The icon itself, when clicked, brings up a full Shepard's report for the case. \n\nThe report indicates exactly how later cases cited the case being Shepardized with plain English phrases like \"followed by\" or \"overruled\" rather than by using the old abbreviations. Additionally, the report shows the full case title (that is, the names of the plaintiff and defendant) and full citation for each of the later cases. This is important because lawyers can usually distinguish criminal from civil cases by looking at the title. Criminal cases (with the exception of habeas corpus cases) are always titled \"People v. [defendant]\" or \"State v. [defendant].\" Often, a criminal case may cite a civil case for a point of law which a civil litigator does not care about, and vice versa. \n\nFinally, the online report has the convenience of allowing the user to simply click on the hyperlink for any listed case to retrieve it instantly (if it is within the user's access plan), whereas users of Shepard's print version had to dash through long law library aisles to retrieve heavy legal reporter volumes, one for each case (and then someone had to put all those volumes back).\n\nWhile most citations can be Shepardized online, there are some sources which are only Shepardizable in the print Shepard's Citations volumes. Most significant among these are the uncodified United States Statutes at Large, which are treated in the print publication \"Shepard's Federal Statute Citations\" but are not Shepardizable online. There are other more specialized sources not as widely used as the Statutes at Large that are included in print Shepard's Citations publications but not covered in the online service.\n\nIn 1960, Eugene Garfield developed Science Citation Index (SCI), which he later expressly acknowledged was heavily influenced in several ways by Shepard's Citations. SCI indexes scientific journal articles, and shows what other articles they have been cited by. SCI also counts the number of citations each article gets, thus forming a citation index of the most-cited articles and journals. In turn, SCI inspired several other scientists to research the possibility of developing superior citation indexes. Examples are the eigenvalue-based method developed by Gabriel Pinski and Francis Narin in 1976 and the PageRank link analysis algorithm using the similar idea created by Sergei Brin and Larry Page, which became the heart of the Google search engine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2404476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2404476", "title": "Societe Le Chant du Monde v. Societe Fox Europe and Societe Fox Americaine Twentieth Century", "text": "Societe Le Chant du Monde v. Societe Fox Europe and Societe Fox Americaine Twentieth Century\n\nSociete Le Chant du Monde v. Societe Fox Europe and Societe Fox Americaine Twentieth Century is a French case had the same facts as the New York case \"Shostakovich v. Twentieth Century-Fox\", wherein four Russian composers sued Fox to prevent the use of their public domain compositions in an anti-Communist film. The New York court presciently summed up the future holding of the French court, where it predicted that droit moral could \"prevent the use of a composition or work, in the public domain.\" The film was ordered seized.\n\nRussian music for many decades was in the public domain in the United States and western Europe, as a form of payback for the Soviet Union not recognizing western copyrights.\n\nNormally authors will be long dead before their works come into the public domain, however depending on the country there is authority that authors may dedicate their works to the public domain voluntarily. The \"Shostakovich\" and \"Le Chant du Monde\" problem, therefore is still with us. The problem is that voluntarily dedicated works may not truly be freely available for modification or even aggregation (the music in \"Le Chant du Monde\" was merely a motion picture soundtrack) until the author is dead, even though the works quite clearly are in the public domain.\n\nThis case was discussed in Strauss, \"The Moral Right of the Author\", 4 Am. J. Comp. L. 506, 534-35 n.56 (1955).\n"}
{"id": "2994852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994852", "title": "South Western Reporter", "text": "South Western Reporter\n\nThe South Western Reporter, \"South Western Reporter Second\", and \"South Western Reporter Third\" are United States regional case law reporters. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for West Publishing Company, which is now part of Thomson Reuters.\n\nThe \"South Western Reporter\" contains published appellate court case decisions for:\n\nWhen cited, the \"South Western Reporter\", \"South Western Reporter Second\", and \"South Western Reporter Third\" are abbreviated \"S.W.\", \"S.W.2d\", and \"S.W.3d\", respectively.\n"}
{"id": "8204711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8204711", "title": "Stanford Center for Computers and the Law", "text": "Stanford Center for Computers and the Law\n\nThe Stanford Center for Computers and the Law - CodeX - is an interdisciplinary computer science and law research center jointly operated by Stanford Law School and the Stanford School of Engineering through the Department of Computer Science.\n\nCodeX's mission is to employ a multidisciplinary approach to addressing problems in the law by applying computer science technologies, methods, and theories to legal problems.\n"}
{"id": "39636272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39636272", "title": "Treatise on Law", "text": "Treatise on Law\n\nTreatise on Law is St. Thomas Aquinas' major work of legal philosophy. It forms questions 90–108 of the \"Prima Secundæ\" (\"First [Part] of the Second [Part]\") of the \"Summa Theologiæ\", Aquinas' masterwork of Scholastic philosophical theology. Along with Aristotelianism, it forms the basis for the legal theory of Catholic canon law.\n\nAquinas defines a law as \"an ordinance of reason for the common good, made by him who has care of the community, and promulgated.\"\n\nLaw is an ordinance of reason because it must be reasonable or based in reason and not merely in the will of the legislator. It is for the common good because the end or \"telos\" of law is the good of the community it binds, and not merely the good of the lawmaker or a special interest group. It is made by the proper authority who has \"care of the community\", and not arbitrarily imposed by outsiders. It is promulgated so that the law can be known.\n\nHe says: \n\nStrictly speaking, this is a definition of human law. The term \"law\" as used by Aquinas is equivocal, meaning that the primary meaning of law is \"human law\", but other, analogous concepts are expressed with the same term.\n\nNatural law or the law of nature refers to normative properties that are inherent by virtue of human nature and universally cognizable through human reason. Historically, natural law refers to the use of reason to analyze both social and personal human nature to deduce binding rules of moral behavior. The law of nature, being determined by nature, is universal.\n\nFor Aquinas, human law is only valid if it conforms to natural law. If a law is unjust, then it is not actually a law, but a \"perversion of law\".\n\nThe \"Treatise on Law\" (as part of the Summa Theologica) is divided into Articles (or broad topics) and Questions (or specific topics). The Questions each argue for a single thesis and defend it against objections. The division is as follows:\n\n1. IN GENERAL\n\n2. IN PARTICULAR\n\nWilliam S. Brewbacker III has called it \"perhaps the most famous of metaphysical legal texts”, while Robert M. Hutchins declared it “that greatest of all books on the philosophy of law”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35280007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35280007", "title": "Ugg boots trademark dispute", "text": "Ugg boots trademark dispute\n\nUgg boots trademark disputes are the disputes between some footwear manufacturers, as to whether \"ugg\" is a protected trademark, or a generic term and thus ineligible for trademark protection. In Australia and New Zealand, where \"Ugg\" is a generic term for the style of footwear, 81 registered trademarks include the term \"Ugg\" in various logos and designs. By contrast, UGG is a registered trademark of the California-based company Deckers Outdoor Corporation in over 130 countries worldwide, including the U.S., the European Union, and China.\n\nUgg boots (sometimes called \"uggs\") in Australia and New Zealand are a unisex style of sheepskin boot. In many other countries, however, UGG boots are a well-known brand of footwear owned by Deckers. The boots are made of twin-faced sheepskin with fleece on the inside and with a tanned outer surface, often with a synthetic sole. The boots originated in Australia and New Zealand, initially as utilitarian footwear worn for warmth and comfort. UGG boots emerged as a fashion trend in the United States in the late 1990s and as a world-wide trend in the late 2000s.\n\nThe Lanham Act is the primary federal trademark statute of law in the United States however, as it only applies to \"commerce which may lawfully be regulated by Congress,\" it does not address terms that are used in foreign countries. The Doctrine of foreign equivalents guideline serves this purpose.\n\nUnder the doctrine of \"foreign equivalents,\" a foreign language term used in a foreign country, that is considered generic in that country, cannot be imported into the United States and used as a trademark. In applying the doctrine, the courts consistently refer to two policy rationales. The first rationale, \"the doctrine serves the interests of domestic competition\":\"Because of the diversity of the population of the United States, coupled with temporary visitors, all of whom are part of the United States marketplace, commerce in the United States utilizes innumerable foreign languages. No merchant may obtain the exclusive right over a trademark registration if that exclusivity would prevent competitors from designating a product as what it is in the language their customers know best.\" — Otokoyama Co. Ltd. Vs Wine of Japan Import Inc.The second rationale, \"the doctrine serves the interests of international comity\":\"Because United States companies would be hamstrung in international trade if foreign countries granted trademark protection to generic English words, the United States reciprocates and refuses trademark protection to generic foreign words.\" — Enrique Bernat F., S.A. v. Guadalajara, Inc.However, the Trademark Manual of Examining Procedure (\"TMEP\") states that the test for applying the doctrine of foreign equivalents is \"whether, to those American buyers familiar with the foreign language, the word would denote its English equivalent\". Thus the doctrine is generally interpreted by courts as not applying if the generic word is not a word from a foreign language, but one from an English-speaking foreign country.\n\nCourt cases have noted that the generic status accorded to English-language words in foreign countries has no bearing on the registration of marks in the United States. The genericity argument was invoked for Ugg boots and was rejected by a U.S. district court which cited the following cases in support. In \"Anheuser-Busch, Inc. v. Stroh Brewery Co.\", the court rejected as irrelevant the generic usage of the phrase \"L.A. beer\" in Australia for low-alcohol beer. The court ruled that \"a term may be generic in one country and suggestive in another\" and that genericity in Australia was irrelevant. In \"Carcione v. The Greengrocer, Inc.\", the court rejected as irrelevant the generic use of the term \"Greengrocer\" in most English speaking countries for a retailer of fruit. The court rejected the argument on the grounds that it is irrelevant how a term is used outside the United States: \"The parties agree that the term is generic in Britain. Since we deal here with American trademark law, and thus American consumers, neither British usage nor the dictionary definition indicating such usage are determinative.\" In another case, the court stated that while a term may be generic in another country, if \"it is not so recognized in this country [the U.S.]... the mark must still be regarded as arbitrary and fanciful in the United States.\" and thus remains eligible for registration as a trademark in the United States.\n\nAs the doctrine is a guideline rather than a rule, it has been criticized with commentators noting that United States courts are often contradictory and inconsistent in their application of the doctrine, and that it provides little guidance to owners when choosing their marks or to courts when assessing protectability or likelihood of mark confusion. It has been suggested by the International Trademark Association that the doctrine be abolished and replaced with one that applies equally to all foreign words, regardless of whether they are from a foreign language or an English language, and that they take into account that country's trademark laws. Under the proposed changes, \"Terms that are generic are never protectible as trademarks and are never registerable\".\n\nThe UGG trademark has been the subject of dispute in several countries. The trademark for \"Ugh-Boots\" has been removed from the trademark registry in Australia for non-use. Outside Australia and New Zealand, UGG (\"written in capital letters\") is a registered trademark of Deckers Outdoor Corporation.\n\nIn 1971, an Australian surfer, Shane Steadman, registered the name \"UGH-BOOTS\" as a trademark in Australia and began selling sheepskin boots under that name. In 1982 he registered the name \"UGH\" and a logo containing a stylised Sun with the words \"UGG AUSTRALIA\". In 1979, Brian Smith, another Australian surfer, applied to be the United States distributor for Country Leather, a Western Australian manufacturer of ugg boots, and began selling their Australian-made boots in New York and to surfers in California. In 1987 he set up Ugg Holdings Inc. and in 1995 purchased the trademarks from Steadman. In 1996 he sold his interest to Deckers and in 1999 Deckers registered the trademarks for \"UGG\" in the US and 25 foreign countries. Deckers began asserting its new trademark and sent out cease and desist letters to Australian manufacturers who were using the name ugg for their boots but otherwise took little action. In the early 2000s, demand for ugg boots was soaring, partly as a result of US$8 million spent on marketing by Deckers, but also due to several celebrity endorsements.\n\nFor the nine months to September 2004, UGG boots sales totaled $39.2 million, an increase of 180% over the previous year. Plans were also in place to expand the UGG brand to cover hats, scarves and gloves. With the continuing rise in popularity, Deckers now began a serious effort to halt the use of the name \"ugg\" by other manufacturers. Deckers' law firm, Middletons of Melbourne, sent cease and desist letters to a number of Australian and American manufacturers who were selling uggs over the Internet, preventing them from selling uggs on eBay or from using the word in their domain names or registered business names.\nThe manufacture of ugg boots in Australia was primarily a cottage industry. Individually lacking the resources to fight Deckers, 20 Australian manufacturers formed the Australian Sheepskin Association to fight the corporation's claim, arguing that \"ugg\" is a generic term referring to flat-heeled, pull-on sheepskin boots. They further argued that Australian manufacturers had been making and trading this style of boot for decades, including exporting them to the US. One of these manufacturers, Perth's Uggs-N-Rugs, who had been manufacturing uggs since 1978 and selling them online since 1996, appealed to Australian trademark regulators, IP Australia. The officer who heard the case stated that the \"evidence overwhelmingly supports the proposition that the terms (ugg, ugh and ug boots) are interchangeably used to describe a specific style of sheepskin boot and are the first and most natural way in which to describe these goods.\" In 2006 Uggs-N-Rugs won the right to use the term UGG BOOT/S and variations such as UGH BOOT/S. The case was the subject of a 2006 television documentary, \"The Good, The Bad and The Ugg Boot\".\n\nDeckers retained the rights to their UGG logo as trade mark protection only applies for the way the mark appears in its entirety and not for the words it contains. The name Ugg/UGG was determined to be generic after the Registrar of Trade Marks found that registration did not confer \"rights in the generic term, or terms, from which it is derived\" and that the identity of the various trade marks \"derive from the hyphenated nature of the expression.\" Therefore, \"UGH boots, UG boots\" and \"UGG boots\" (\"or other variations\") without hyphens are all generic terms in Australia. IP Australia also ruled that the trademark \"UGH-boots\" (with hyphen) should be removed from the trademark register for non-use as Deckers had only been using the UGG logo, not the UGH marks. Deckers initially declined to pay Uggs-N-Rugs court costs as required by the 2006 ruling. Following the publication of a Wall Street Journal article which referred to the oversight, Deckers paid the costs in September 2010. The ruling only applies in Australia and Deckers still owns the trademarks in other jurisdictions such as the US, China, Japan and the European Union.\n\nIn 1998, Deckers demanded that the American company Koolaburra cease infringing the UGG trademark. Koolaburra replied that they did not use the name \"UGG\" or \"UGH\" and that the only mark they used was \"Ug\". Deckers sent a further \"cease and desist\" letter in 2001 and another in 2003 but Koolaburra declined to stop using the name \"Ug\" and in 2004, Deckers filed a case against Koolaburra in the California federal court alleging (1) trademark infringement, (2) false designation of origin (Koolaburra labelled their boots \"Australian Ug Boots\"), (3) trademark dilution, (4) cybersquatting, (5) unfair competition, (6) trade disparagement, (7) unjust enrichment and (8) breach of contract (Deckers claimed that in 1998 Koolaburra had agreed to stop using the name Ug). Koolaburra in turn challenged that the name UGG was generic and not entitled to trademark protection. As the UGG mark was registered, Deckers was entitled to the assumption that it was not generic, thus the burden of proof rested with Koolaburra.\n\nIn support, Koolaburra provided the testimony of America's National Surfing Team coach Peter Townend and Nordstrom's footwear buyer Heather Kolkey. These declarations were accepted by the court as anecdotal. Additionally, Koolaburra provided three instances of the generic usage of Ugg in American magazines, however the court pointed out that the most recent was dated 1980. Koolaburra also quoted the New York City published Oxford English Dictionary definition of \"Ugg\"; however, this was rejected after Deckers petitioned the Dictionary to change the definition of \"Ugg\" from \"a kind of soft sheepskin boot\" to a definition that included UGG's trademark, which the OED agreed to do. Koolaburra then argued that the UGG trademark was invalid as Brian Smith had fraudulently registered the name by giving false representations that the term was not generic, arguing that \"as an Australian citizen, Smith knew of the fact that the term Ugg was a generic term\". This was rejected by the court as fraud requires an applicant to \"knowingly\" make the false representations, ruling that such belief was subjective, and finding that even if Smith knew the term was generic in Australia, he may have \"honestly held [a] good faith belief\" that it was not generic in the United States.\n\nDeckers countered through submitting declarations from four professionals in the footwear industry who stated that \"UGG\" is widely recognized in the industry as a brand name, not a generic term and provided the court with survey evidence supporting that consumers in the US consider UGG to be a brand name; among women aged 18 to 45 who had purchased footwear valued over $100 in the last 12 months, 58% believed UGG was a brand name while only 11% thought it generic. Koolaburra then argued that the term was generic under the doctrine of \"foreign equivalents\" (Under U.S. law, a term used in another country that is considered generic in that country cannot be imported into the United States and used as a trademark). This was rejected as the doctrine only applied to terms in a foreign language. In February 2005, the court ruled for Deckers on their claims of \"trademark infringement\" and \"unfair competition\", finding that a consumer would likely be confused with the similarity in \"appearance, sight and sound\" between \"Ug\" and UGG\" as the parties were marketing in direct competition with identical products. However, the court declined to rule on the validity of trademarks in Australia as it was considered inappropriate to interfere with another country's rulings.\n\nThe Australian Sheepskin Association is attempting to change the name UGG into a regional mark similar to that achieved for Champagne which would negate its trademark status in many jurisdictions. Deckers in response has focused on the fact that its UGG boots are made in China and not Australia. In 2012, sales of Deckers UGG boots totaled over US$630 million while the UGG brand, which now includes hats, scarves, gloves, slippers, casuals, jackets, coats, and handbags totaled over US$1 billion with 30% of sales outside of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174647", "title": "United States presidential line of succession", "text": "United States presidential line of succession\n\nThe United States presidential line of succession is the order in which officials of the United States federal government discharge the powers and duties of the office of President of the United States if the incumbent president becomes incapacitated, dies, resigns, or is removed from office (by impeachment by the House of Representatives and subsequent conviction by the Senate) during their four-year term of office. Presidency succession is referred to multiple times in the U.S. Constitution, as well as the 12th Amendment, 20th Amendment, and 25th Amendment. The Article II succession clause authorizes Congress to provide for a line of succession beyond the vice president, which it has done on three occasions. The current Presidential Succession Act was adopted in 1947, and last revised in 2006.\n\nThe line of succession follows the order of Vice President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, President pro tempore of the Senate, and then the eligible heads of federal executive departments who form the president's Cabinet. The Presidential Succession Act refers specifically to officers beyond the vice president \"acting as\" president rather than \"becoming\" president when filling a vacancy. The Cabinet currently has 15 members, of which the Secretary of State is first in line; the other Cabinet secretaries follow in the order in which their department (or the department of which their department is the successor) was created. Those heads of department who are constitutionally ineligible to be elected to the presidency are also disqualified from assuming the powers and duties of the presidency through succession. Since 1789, the vice president has succeeded to the presidency intra-term on nine occasions, eight times due to the incumbent's death, and once due to resignation. No one lower in the line of succession has yet been called upon to act as president.\n\nWidely considered a settled issue during the late 20th century, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 demonstrated the potential for a decapitation strike that would kill or incapacitate multiple individuals in the presidential line of succession, in addition to many members of Congress and of the federal judiciary. In the years immediately following the attacks, there were numerous wide-ranging discussions in Congress among academics, and within the public policy community about continuity of government concerns, including the existing constitutional and statutory provisions governing presidential succession. These discussions are ongoing. One effort, that of the Continuity of Government Commission, a nonpartisan think tank, produced three reports (in 2003, 2009, and 2011), the second of which focused on the implicit ambiguities and limitations in the current succession act, and contained recommendations for amending the laws for succession to the presidency.\n\nThe table below details the current presidential order of succession as established by the 1947 presidential succession statute as amended (). The order is determined by the offices. However, the individual in an office must still satisfy the constitutional requirements for the office in order to serve as Acting President. In the table, the absence of a \"number\" in the first column indicates that the incumbent is ineligible, or is of uncertain eligibility. In such cases, a note explains the detail.\n!No.\n!Office\n!Incumbent\n!colspan=\"2\" |Party\n"}
{"id": "27171975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27171975", "title": "Vernacular Press Act", "text": "Vernacular Press Act\n\nIn British India, the Vernacular Press Act (Act of 1878) was enacted to curtail the freedom of the Indian press and prevent the expression of criticism toward British policies—notably, the opposition that had grown with the outset of the Second Anglo-Afghan War (1878–80). The act was proposed by Lord Lytton, then Viceroy of India, and was unanimously passed by the Viceroy's Council on 14 March 1878. The act excluded English-language publications as it was meant to control seditious writing in 'publications in Oriental languages' everywhere in the country, except for the South.But the British totally discriminated the Indian Press.\n\nThe act empowered the government to impose restrictions on the press in the following ways:\n\n1.) Modelled on the Irish press act, this act provided the government with extensive rights to censor reports and editorials in the Vernacular press.\n\n2.) From now on the government kept regular track of Vernacular newspapers.\n\n3.) When a report published in the newspaper was judged as seditious, the newspaper was warned.\n\n4.)No Indian was allowed to carry arms without license\n\nThe first periodicals in India were under the control of East India Company, and the press sometimes created a problem for the interests of the company. This resulted in the first two papers being banned—one started by Bolt and the Bengal Gazette. Lord Wellesley regulated the press again in 1799; according to which press had to show and get approval of the government before the publication of any manuscript including advertisement. During the Indian Rebellion of 1857, the \"Gagging Act\" had been passed by Lord Canning which sought to regulate the establishment of printing presses and to restrain the mad of printed mater. All presses had to have a license from the government with distinction between publications in English and other regional languages. The Act also held that no printed material shall impugn the motives of the British Raj, tending to bring it hatred and contempt and exciting unlawful resistance to its orders. When the British Government found that the Gagging Act was not potent enough to repress all nationalist sentiments, it created a more forcible law, designed in part by Sir Alexander John Arbuthnot and Sir Ashley Eden, Lieutenant Governor of Bengal.\n\nAt the time the Vernacular Press Act was passed, there were thirty five vernacular papers in Bengal, including the \"Amrita Bazar Patrika\", the editor of which was one Sisir Kumar Ghose. Sir Ashley Eden summoned him and offered to contribute to his paper regularly if he gave him final editorial approval. Ghose refused, and remarked that “there ought to be at least one honest journalist in the land.” The Vernacular Press Act might be said to have grown from this incident. About the time the Act was passed, Sir Ashley remarked in a speech that forty five seditious writings published in fifteen different vernacular papers were presented to him before the Act was finalized.\n\nThe Vernacular Press Act stated that any magistrate or Commissioner of Police had the authority to call upon any printer or publisher of a newspaper to enter into a bond, undertaking not to print a certain kind of material, and could confiscate any printed material it deemed objectionable. The Act provided for submitting to police all the proof sheets of contents of papers before publication. What was seditious news was to be determined by the police, and not by the judiciary. Under this Act many of the papers were fined, their editors jailed. Thus, they were subject to prior restraint. The affected party could not seek redress in a court of law. General threats to the Indian language press included:\n\n\nAny one or more of the above were punishable by law, but no redress could be sought in any court in the land.\n\nBecause the British government was in a hurry to pass the bill without encouraging any reactions whatever, the bill was not published in the usual papers in Calcutta and the North-Western Provinces were the slowest in obtaining information. While the \"Amrita Bazar Patrika\" in Calcutta had converted itself into an all-English weekly within a week of the passing of the Vernacular Press Act, papers in the north were wondering what the exact provisions of the act were, even after two weeks of its existence. The following years saw the appearance and disappearance of a number of Bengali journals in quick succession, failing to gain support with their poverty of language and thought.\n\nOnce publishers learned of the provisions, the repressive measure encountered strong opposition. All the native associations irrespective of religion, caste and creed denounced the measure and kept their protests alive. All the prominent leaders of Bengal and India condemned the Act as unwarranted and unjustified, and demanded its immediate withdrawal. The newspapers themselves kept criticizing the measure without end. The succeeding administration of Lord Ripon reviewed the developments consequent upon the Act and finally withdrew it. However, the resentment it produced among Indians helped fuel India’s growing independence movement. The Indian Association, which is generally considered to be one of the precursors of the Indian National Congress, was one of the Act's biggest critics. The crucial demand for a judicial trial in case of an accusation of sedition against an editor was never conceded by the government, although in October 1878 the act was modified in minor respect; the submission of proofs before publication was no longer insisted upon, although the bail-bond remained.\n\n"}
{"id": "51067258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51067258", "title": "YouTube copyright strike", "text": "YouTube copyright strike\n\nA YouTube copyright strike is a copyright policing practice used by YouTube for the purpose of managing copyright infringement and complying with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) is the basis for the design of the YouTube copyright strike system. For YouTube to retain DMCA safe harbor protection, it must respond to copyright infringement claims with a notice and take down process. YouTube's own practice is to issue a \"YouTube copyright strike\" on the user accused of copyright infringement. When a YouTube user has three copyright strikes, YouTube terminates that user's YouTube channel, removes all of their videos from that user's YouTube channel, and prohibits that user from creating another YouTube channel.\n\nYouTube assigns strikes based on reports of copyright violations from bots.\n\nSome users have expressed concern that the strike process is unfair to users. The complaint is that the system assumes guilt of YouTube users and takes the side of copyright holders even when no infringement has occurred.\n\nYouTube and Nintendo were criticised by Cory Doctorow, a writer for the blog \"Boing Boing\", due to them reportedly treating video game reviewers unfairly by threatening them with strikes.\n\nFair use is a legal rationale for reusing copyrighted content in a limited way, such as to discuss or criticize other media. Various YouTube creators have reported receiving copyright strikes for using media in the context of fair use.\n\nVarious YouTube creators have reported receiving copyright strikes on videos which are critical of corporate products. They claim that a claim of copyright violation is actually a strategy to suppress criticism.\n\nCopyright strikes have also been issued against creators themselves. \"Miracle of Sound\"'s channel was hit with multiple copyright strikes as a result of automated strikes by the distributor of their own music. \n\nIn a similar incident to such strikes, though in another forum, Sony issued an automated copyright strike against James Rhodes for a video on Facebook of him playing part of a piece by Bach, on the grounds that they owned the copyright on a similar recording, and when the strike was challenged, asserted that they owned the rights to the work, before finally admitting that Bach's compositions are in the public domain. \n\nSome publishers on YouTube report not understanding why they are the recipient of strikes.\n\n"}
