{"id": "57389230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57389230", "title": "Al Thowarah hot spring", "text": "Al Thowarah hot spring\n\nThe al Thowarah hot spring, also called the Nakhal spring, is located a few kilometres from the Nakhal Fort fort in Oman, located off the road that connects Birka with Rustaq. It is a green area where a spring forms a stream in a wadi (valley). \n\nIt is one of the sites featured in a series of Oman landscape paintings by British artist Alan Reed.\n"}
{"id": "10432212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10432212", "title": "Bachelor of Resource and Environmental Planning", "text": "Bachelor of Resource and Environmental Planning\n\nThe Bachelor of Resource and Environmental Planning is a professional degree that seeks to integrate the disciplines of Urban planning, Environmental planning and Natural resource management. It is similar to the Bachelor of Environmental Studies offered by various schools in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Kenya, but is designed to give effect to the Resource Management Act 1991.\n"}
{"id": "416643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416643", "title": "Canton (country subdivision)", "text": "Canton (country subdivision)\n\nA canton is a type of administrative division of a country. In general, cantons are relatively small in terms of area and population when compared with other administrative divisions such as counties, departments, or provinces. Internationally, the best-known cantons - and the most politically important - are those of Switzerland. As the constituents of the Swiss Confederation, theoretically (and historically), the Swiss cantons are semi-sovereign states.\n\nThe term is derived from the French word \"\", meaning \"corner\" or \"district\" (from which \"Cantonment\" is also derived).\n\nCantons exist (or existed) in the following countries:\n\n"}
{"id": "48647779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48647779", "title": "Emanuela Casti", "text": "Emanuela Casti\n\nEmanuela Casti (born 1950 in Mira, Venice, Italy) is an Italian geographer and a cartography theorist. A Full Professor at the University of Bergamo (Italy), in 2004 Casti founded the Diathesis Cartographic Lab, a permanent workshop devoted to territorial analysis, cartographic innovation and experimentation. A noted innovator in the field of theoretical cartography, Casti formalized a semiotic theory of geographic maps, which in its most recent development has also embraced cybercartography. Since 2013, she has coordinated the applied RIFO/it research on urban regeneration/land restitution, a project funded by Italcementi Group which gathers leading Italian architects and urban planners.\nHaving graduated at the University of Padua with a thesis on the historical evolution of cartography in Mantua, professor Casti started her academic research in 1983, when she was appointed researcher at the same university. Casti became an associate professor at the University of Bergamo in 1992 and full professor in 2001. She also taught courses, lectures and seminars at other academic institution both in Italy (University of Turin) and abroad (EPFL - École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Parigi VII - Paris- Diderot).\nSince the date of its foundation until it was officially terminated in 2012, professor Casti was a member of the Academic Board (Collegio dei Docenti) for the PhD program on “Geografia dello sviluppo e delle dinamiche urbano-regionali” (Geography of development and of urban-regional dynamics). She has been involved in research groups both at the national level (with active links to the Italian journal Terra d’Africa) and internationally (within the Eidolon network). Casti is also a member of many leading Italian societies (, , RGI, AIIGI) and international workgroups (UGI, ICA).\nAfter starting her career as a specialist on Venetian historical cartography, Casti has widened the scope of her research to embrace various historical periods. She has extensively analyzed the role of maps in the Italian region of Lombardy in the Renaissance and Early Modern times; addressed key issues in Italian and French colonial cartography and investigated prehistoric examples of rock-engraved mapping in Valcamonica (Camonica Valley, Italy). Far from being regarded as mere historical artifacts, these cartographic examples provided a solid background for empirical and applied analysis. On the basis of such maps, professor Casti developed her theory of cartographic semiosis. Casti has also used the same theory to shed more light on the products and the communicative and pragmatic potential of digital mapping, GIS and WebGIS, with a focus on participatory mapping in support of local governance. By pinpointing the complex mechanisms at work in a geographic map, Casti’s research highlighted the links between cartography and geography and the discrepancies between traditional and digital maps.\nAfrica has long been the privileged object of professor Casti’s numerous on-site surveys, well over thirty since 1992. In this context, she conducted applied research regarding environmental protection and cooperation with countries in the developing world, working within the framework of EU programs, of the International Union for Conservation of Nature(IUCN)and of UNESCO. In particular, Casti participated in projects for the management of the buffer zones of protected areas in West Africa: i.e. the 2002-2005 collaborative project with the French CIRAD research center of Montpellier involving the W Transboundary Biosphere Reserve of Niger, Benin and Burkina Faso; and the 2006-2009 collaboration with the excellence university center 2iE- Institut International d'Ingéniérie de l'Eau et de l'Environnement di Ouagadougou - Arly Protection and Conservation Unit in Burkina Faso.\nProf. Casti currently pursues her line of theoretical and applied research in the field of cartography, while also devoting herself to urban planning and territorial valorization and development. Through the creation of participatory mapping systems between 2012 and 2013, Casti led the participatory process for the application of the Italian city of Bergamo as 2019 European Capital of Culture (Bergamo Open Mapping) and, in the years 2014 to 2015, the participatory process for the revitalization of public spaces in Bergamo (BG Public Space).\nIn 2012, with the aim to kickstart the regeneration of territories via a tourism-based approach, Casti promoted and implemented a European network of cluster cities (comprising Bergamo, Beauvais, Cambridge, Charleroi, Girona, Lübeck, Santander); all medium-sized cities, located in urban areas, with a university and an airport served by low-cost airlines (Project entitled: Centrality of Territories, towards the regeneration of Bergamo in a European network).\nIn the years 2013-2014 professor Casti addressed the themes of urban regeneration and land restitution through the elaboration of the RIFO method, adopted for analyzing and mapping disused and obsolete areas in Lombardy.\n\nProfessor Casti elaborated the theory of cartographic semiosis in 1998, when she also published her first theoretical book L’ordine del mondo e la sua rappresentazione, translated into English in 2005 under the title Reality as Representation. The semiotics of cartography and the generation of meaning. Casti’s theory lies within the fold of the research area called “postmodern cartography” inaugurated by in 1989 and developed in the first decade of the 21st century with contributions by Emanuela Casti, Jeremy Crampton, Martin Dodge, Rob Kitchin, , . The underlying assumption of postmodern research is a questioning of the objectivity and neutrality of maps, and more specifically a questioning of the scientific nature of Euclidean metrics. Accordingly, maps are not seen as straightforward “mirrors of reality”, but rather as instruments through which reality is shaped. Casti’s key contribution lies in having embraced this initial assumption as a springboard for articulating a theory able to investigate the construction and the communicative mechanisms of maps. By shifting the focus of interest from maps as tools for mediating territory to maps as operators which actively affect the range of activities one can implement on territories, Casti’s theory earmarked the areas in which action is needed in order to take control of the communicative outcomes of mapping. Assuming a symbiosis between territory and mapping, Casti conclusively defines maps as complex denonational acts, on the basis of which individuals appropriate territory intellectually and symbolically order the world. Maps should be taken as instances of a “metasemiosis\" - or “second-level semiosis”, for even though they are based on territorial semiosis they also deploy signs, names, symbols which convey messages and meanings quite independently of the intentions of those who first produced them. Maps, Casti insists, are endowed with self-reference, which produces its own messages and may well lead an interpreter to read the world through the framework of theory and to advance entirely conjectural propositions as if they were facts (in this regard, Casti speaks of iconization). Casti rereads the theoretical framework of , whereby signs in communication become sign vehicles activated by an interpreter, to show a cartographic semiosis based on icons (a key feature of maps) and analyzed in light of three aspects: in the encoding of signs (semantics); in the syntax that connects icons and develops their meanings in a reticular dimension; in the pragmatic sphere, when maps become the objects of interpretation as well as key models for socially relevant patterns of behavior. Within such theoretical framework, maps become sophisticated instruments capable of suggesting and envisioning strategies of production, use and mediatization of territory to their interpreters. According to Casti, this network provides not only the platform for an interpretation of cartographic documents, but also for actual experimenting with maps, now tailored to the changing needs of society; maps that are designed to envisage a topological space, as Casti’s second theoretical book makes clear (Cartografia critica, translated in English as: Reflexive Cartography, 2015). Professor Casti explores the transition from a topographic mapping, created by government agencies, to open cartography, collaboratively produced by the people (and linked to a new idea of Chorography). The latter has the potential to become a highly workable concept, to be used as an operator for assisting citizens in thinking and designing their own living space and in understanding the current world. Specifically, Casti argues that, by virtue of its highly interactive features, new digital mapping (specifically ) opens up new scenarios, and poses cybercartography as a privileged discipline for recovering and promoting the social significance of territory in all its forms (landscape and environment).\n\nThe SIGAP strategy (Geographic Information Systems for Protected Areas /Participatory Action) is a research methodology that adopts cartographic semiosis and tests its actual range of application. It takes up concepts presented by international agencies - such as \"sustainability\", \"conservation\" participation” - and turns them into operational tools for territorial and environmental planning. Tested in various national and international contexts with regard to a variety of issues (migration, environmental protection, landscape planning, tourism systems, urban regeneration, etc.), the SIGAP methodology deploys the typical range of geography-based competences in the field of applied research. As such it involves all stages of analysis: the adoption of a theory informing land methodology; interaction with local inhabitants for the reading of data; construction of interpretative models and their cartographic visualization. In each of these stages, cartography takes on different capacities depending on the goal to be pursued. The final product is an interactive multimedia system GIS (for example: Multimap and Orobiemap), which becomes as an invaluable tool for field research, for the implementation of intervention strategies, for the processing and circulation of data.\nParticipatory mapping systems play an essential role in this context, because they can recover the role of local communities and produce cartographic representations that take account of local interests. According to the technology involved and the level of participation entailed, these systems may include: i) participatory mapping, carried out by local communities at the request of an external party; ii) Community Integrated GIS - or CIGIS, built and operated by actors outside the community but including data collected through participatory methodologies; iii) Public Participation GIS - PPGIS), made and used directly by local communities in an exchange with local administrators or supervising agencies. The latter, based on WebGIS technology, fall within the realm of \"cybercartography\" or “open” digital mapping systems that allow users to interact, by promoting social projects and processes (Geomatics and Cartographic Research Centre).\n\nCasti uses the phrase “s-Low Tourism” to underline the absence of a clear conceptual break between the notion of slowness and the notion of speed. In fact, her acronym refers both to \"slow\" as a prerequisite for a mindful experience of territory, and to low-cost airlines that have revolutionized the way we think about air travel, as something different from a journey, something based on speed and safety. On the one hand, air travel has increased, is more intense, and usually covers a shorter period of time: it underlies a current lifestyle, whereby tourist destinations are no longer analyzed on the basis of conventional indicators. At the same time, though, the notion of sustainability applied to territorial planning has amply shown that tourism is a driving force for local communities, which conceive and present their own space not only as a holiday destination but as a place to be experienced in its social, cultural and environmental features. In a leap of perspective, tourism ceases to be a mere driving force for economic development and becomes an opportunity for regional regeneration, with a view to producing social development through the recovery of a sense of place, that is to say of the key value of territory. This is a kind of regeneration that focuses on the cultural and natural resources of territories, now made available online to a new type of tourist who is steeped in information technology and accustomed to new modes of travel. This new tourist-traveller looks for a travel experience based on slow appreciation, on ecology-conscious, environmental and green mobility. Yet, at the same time, mobility has to be fast for travellers to be able to experience more theme-based destinations that share comparable cultural features. At the local level, this new tourism is based on the enhancement of small enterprise projects, of smart technology, and of citizen participation. Internationally, it must be based on a synergy between public and private institutions, aimed at promoting common policies to develop tourism and accessibility.\n\nThe method comes from a monitoring study on disused and obsolete areas (buildings erected between 1950 and 1980) in Lombardy. It relies on three assumptions: the symbiosis between land-regeneration and urban restructuring; a shift of focus involving “cities” no longer seen as territorial structures but as sites that embody an ecological lifestyle; the prospect of circular restructuring of disused and discontinued areas, with the active participation of local inhabitants.\nOperationally, this method aims at replacing outdated buildings (in terms of safety, energy saving, new forms of living, and sanitation) with new buildings that meet current living needs and at the same time reclaim wasted space. In fact, while maintaining the same volume for buildings, the RIFO method also expands the use of underground space and thus envisions a reduction of the surface taken up by covered areas, with the possibility of freeing up land for later use as parks and green areas. RIFO envisages a circular process of demolition and reconstruction for obsolete and disused areas, and so entails the relocation of inhabitants who live in old tenement buildings within the same district. Such short-range relocation aims at inclusive restructuring by implementing participatory strategies in the stages of planning, ensuring an active role for local inhabitants the whole process of demolition and construction. A participatory methodology - the SIGAP Strategy - retrieves the spatial capital, that is to say the set of knowledge and skills of inhabitants who actively operate the places they inhabit. SIGAP also sheds light on the use of space assets found in public RIFO areas (public services, accessibility, natural heritage); it detects priorities and critical issues (pollution factors, need for green spaces, social distress and safety) and recovers the layered values attributed to the sites.\n\nEnvironmental protection:\n\nMultimap RBT W – Réserve de la Biosphère Transfrontalière W\n\nOrobiemap\n\nParticipatory mapping\n\nBG Open Mapping\n\nBG Public Space\n\nUrban regeneration and land use:\n\nRIFO/it\n\nRestructuring ex-GRES Area, Bergamo\n\ns-Low Tourism:\n\nCentrality of territories. Towards a regeneration of Bergamo in a European network\n\nProfessor Casti has over a hundred publications in Italian, French and English. Among these:\n\n\nAmong her contributions and articles in English and French:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314696", "title": "Environmental health", "text": "Environmental health\n\nEnvironmental health is the branch of public health concerned with all aspects of the natural and built environment affecting human health. Other terms referring to or concerning environmental health are environmental public health, and public health protection/ environmental health protection. Environmental health is focused on the natural and built environments for the benefit of human health, whereas environmental protection is concerned with protecting the natural environment for the benefit of human health and the ecosystem.\n\nEnvironmental health has been defined in a 1999 document by the World Health Organization (WHO) as:\n\nAs of 2016 the WHO website on environmental health states \"Environmental health addresses all the physical, chemical, and biological factors external to a person, and all the related factors impacting behaviours. It encompasses the assessment and control of those environmental factors that can potentially affect health. It is targeted towards preventing disease and creating health-supportive environments. This definition excludes behaviour not related to environment, as well as behaviour related to the social and cultural environment, as well as genetics.\"\n\nThe WHO has also defined environmental health services as \"those services which implement environmental health policies through monitoring and control activities. They also carry out that role by promoting the improvement of environmental parameters and by encouraging the use of environmentally friendly and healthy technologies and behaviors. They also have a leading role in developing and suggesting new policy areas.\"\n\nThe term environmental medicine may be seen as a medical specialty, or branch of the broader field of environmental health. Terminology is not fully established, and in many European countries they are used interchangeably.\n\nEnvironmental health professionals may be known as environmental health officers, public health inspectors, environmental health specialists, environmental health practitioners, or sanitarians. Researchers and policy-makers also play important roles in how environmental health is practiced in the field. In many European countries, physicians and veterinarians are involved in environmental health. In the United Kingdom, practitioners must have a graduate degree in environmental health and be certified and registered with the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health or the Royal Environmental Health Institute of Scotland. In Canada, practitioners in environmental health are required to obtain an approved bachelor's degree in environmental health along with the national professional certificate, the Certificate in Public Health Inspection (Canada) CPHI(C). Many states in the United States also require that individuals have a bachelor's degree and professional licenses in order to practice environmental health. California state law defines the scope of practice of environmental health as follows:\n\nThe environmental health profession had its modern-day roots in the sanitary and public health movement of the United Kingdom. This was epitomized by Sir Edwin Chadwick, who was instrumental in the repeal of the poor laws, and in 1884 was the founding president of the Association of Public Sanitary Inspectors, now called the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.\n\nFive basic disciplines generally contribute to the field of environmental health: environmental epidemiology, toxicology, exposure science, environmental engineering, and environmental law. Each of these disciplines contributes different information to describe problems and solutions in environmental health, but there is some overlap among them.\n\nInformation from epidemiology, toxicology, and exposure science can be combined to conduct a risk assessment for specific chemicals, mixtures of chemicals or other risk factors to determine whether an exposure poses significant risk to human health (exposure would likely result in the development of pollution-related diseases). This can in turn be used to develop and implement environmental health policy that, for example, regulates chemical emissions, or imposes standards for proper sanitation. Actions of engineering and law can be combined to provide risk management to minimize, monitor, and otherwise manage the impact of exposure to protect human health to achieve the objectives of environmental health policy.\n\nEnvironmental health addresses all human-health-related aspects of the natural environment and the built environment. Environmental health concerns include:\n\n\nAccording to recent estimates, about 5 to 10% of Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost are due to environmental causes in Europe. By far the most important factor is fine particulate matter pollution in urban air. Similarly, environmental exposures have been estimated to contribute to 4.9 million (8.7%) deaths and 86 million (5.7%) DALYs globally. In the United States, Superfund sites created by various companies have been found to be hazardous to human and environmental health in nearby communities. It was this perceived threat, raising the specter of miscarriages, mutations, birth defects, and cancers that most frightened the public.\n\nThe Toxicology and Environmental Health Information Program (TEHIP) is a comprehensive toxicology and environmental health web site, that includes open access to resources produced by US government agencies and organizations, and is maintained under the umbrella of the Specialized Information Service at the United States National Library of Medicine. TEHIP includes links to technical databases, bibliographies, tutorials, and consumer-oriented resources. \nTEHIP is responsible for the Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET), an integrated system of toxicology and environmental health databases including the Hazardous Substances Data Bank, that are open access, i.e. available free of charge.\n\nThere are many environmental health mapping tools. TOXMAP is a geographic information system (GIS) from the Division of Specialized Information Services of the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) that uses maps of the United States to help users visually explore data from the United States Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Toxics Release Inventory and Superfund Basic Research Programs. TOXMAP is a resource funded by the US federal government. TOXMAP's chemical and environmental health information is taken from the NLM's Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET) and PubMed, and from other authoritative sources.\n\n\nJournals:\n\nOrganisations:\n"}
{"id": "54551957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54551957", "title": "Ferry quays in İstanbul", "text": "Ferry quays in İstanbul\n\nThere are 50 passenger ferry quays in İstanbul, of which 37 are in active service in Bosphorus, Golden Horn and the Sea of Marmara. As of the 2017 Summer season, the ferry quays are served at 600 voyages daily by 28 traditional passenger ferry boats on 17 lines operated by the \"Şehir Hatları\" (\"City Lines\") company.\n\nFollowing is the list of active ferry quays:\n\n"}
{"id": "507764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507764", "title": "Freguesia", "text": "Freguesia\n\nFreguesia (), usually translated as \"parish\" or \"civil parish\", is the third-level administrative subdivision of Portugal, as defined by the 1976 Constitution. It is also a local administrative unit in the former Portuguese overseas territories of Cape Verde and Macau. In the past, was also an administrative division of the other Portuguese overseas territories. The \"parroquia\" in the Spanish autonomous communities of Galicia and Asturias is similar to a \"freguesia\".\n\nA \"freguesia\" is a subdivision of a \"município\" (municipality). Most often, a parish takes the name of its seat, which is usually the most important (or the single) human agglomeration within its area, which can be a neighbourhood or city district, a group of hamlets, a village, a town or an entire city. In cases where the seat is itself divided into more than one parish, each one takes the name of a landmark within its area or of the patron saint from the usually coterminous Catholic parish (\"paróquia\" in Portuguese). Be it a city district or village, the civil parish is often based on an ecclesiastical parish.\n\nSince the creation of a democratic local administration, in 1976, the Portuguese parishes have been ruled by a system composed by an executive body (the \"junta de freguesia\", \"parish board\") and a deliberative body (the \"assembleia de freguesia\", \"parish assembly\"). The members of the \"assembleia de freguesia\" are publicly elected every four years. The presidents of the parish boards are also members of the municipal assembly.\n\nThe parish, in contrast with the municipalities, had their base in the ecclesiastical divisions that \"had its origin in the fact that neighbours professed the same religion and professed their faith and divinity in the same temple\". \"Freguesia\", the traditional Portuguese word for parish, had its beginning in the \"filius ecclesiae\" (child of the church) and \"filius gregis\" (child of the shepherds's flock), the collectivity of the religious faithful, with similar aspirations and interests. Between 1216 and 1223, Afonso II of Portugal began a process of legitimizing the Portuguese territory by conferring charters to nobles, clergy and municipal chambers (which would not be completed until after 1249, under Afonso III of Portugal), making the parish the smallest division. But, the power of the clergy built these areas, accumulating immense wealth and power. The liberal government of Mouzinho da Silveira abolished the parishes in 1832, but the government of Manuel da Silva Passos restored them in 1836. The \"freguesia\" began to refer to the civil/administrative entity, while the \"paróquia\" () became affiliated with the religious entity.\n\nBefore the 2013 local government reforms, the 308 municipalities were subdivided into 4,259 civil parishes. In 2011, after more than two weeks of bailout negotiations in light of the sovereign debt crisis with the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, the Portuguese government was obliged to reduce the number of municipal and parish local governments after July 2012. The government of Pedro Passos Coelho introduced a plan to reform the administrative divisions, in order to create efficiencies and save money. The plan envisioned the reform of the management, territorial geography and political form of how Portugal functioned at the local level, including specifically at the \"freguesia\" and \"concelho\" levels. It was determined that these changes would then be formalized before the 2013 local government elections, as part of a process to reduce expenditures, a condition of the $110 Billion accord. In addition to the reduction of the number of representatives in the local boards, the plan also established criteria for the reduction, amalgamation or extinction of various civil parishes.\n\nThe reform was implemented according to Law 11-A/2013 of 28 January 2013, which defined the reorganization of the civil parishes, This way, the number of parishes was reduced from 4,259 to 3,091.\n\nMunicipalities in Portugal are usually divided into multiple \"freguesias\", but seven municipalities are not: Alpiarça, Barrancos, Castanheira de Pera, Porto Santo, São Brás de Alportel and São João da Madeira all consist of a single civil parish, and Corvo is a special case of a municipality without civil parishes. Barcelos is the municipality with the most civil parishes (61, since 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "1253033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253033", "title": "Friedrich Ratzel", "text": "Friedrich Ratzel\n\nFriedrich Ratzel (August 30, 1844 – August 9, 1904) was a German geographer and ethnographer, notable for first using the term \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") in the sense that the National Socialists later would.\n\nRatzel's father was the head of the household staff of the Grand Duke of Baden. Friedrich attended high school in Karlsruhe for six years before being apprenticed at age 15 to apothecaries. In 1863, he went to Rapperswil on the Lake of Zurich, Switzerland, where he began to study the classics. After a further year as an apothecary at Moers near Krefeld in the Ruhr area (1865–1866), he spent a short time at the high school in Karlsruhe and became a student of zoology at the universities of Heidelberg, Jena and Berlin, finishing in 1868. He studied zoology in 1869, publishing \"Sein und Werden der organischen Welt\" on Darwin.\n\nAfter the completion of his schooling, Ratzel began a period of travels that saw him transform from zoologist/biologist to geographer. He began field work in the Mediterranean, writing letters of his experiences. These letters led to a job as a traveling reporter for the \"Kölnische Zeitung\" (\"Cologne Journal\"), which provided him the means for further travel. Ratzel embarked on several expeditions, the lengthiest and most important being his 1874-1875 trip to North America, Cuba, and Mexico. This trip was a turning point in Ratzel’s career. He studied the influence of people of German origin in America, especially in the Midwest, as well as other ethnic groups in North America.\n\nHe produced a written work of his account in 1876, \"Städte-und Kulturbilder aus Nordamerika\" (Profile of Cities and Cultures in North America), which would help establish the field of cultural geography. According to Ratzel, cities are the best place to study people because life is \"blended, compressed, and accelerated\" in cities, and they bring out the \"greatest, best, most typical aspects of people\". Ratzel had traveled to cities such as New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Richmond, Charleston, New Orleans, and San Francisco.\n\nUpon his return in 1875, Ratzel became a lecturer in geography at the Technical High School in Munich. In 1876, he was promoted to assistant professor, then rose to full professor in 1880. While at Munich, Ratzel produced several books and established his career as an academic. In 1886, he accepted an appointment at Leipzig University. His lectures were widely attended, notably by the influential American geographer Ellen Churchill Semple.\n\nRatzel produced the foundations of human geography in his two-volume \"Anthropogeographie\" in 1882 and 1891. This work was misinterpreted by many of his students, creating a number of environmental determinists. He published his work on political geography, \"Politische Geographie\", in 1897. It was in this work that Ratzel introduced concepts that contributed to Lebensraum and Social Darwinism. His three volume work \"The History of Mankind\" was published in English in 1896 and contained over 1100 excellent engravings and remarkable chromolithography.\n\nRatzel continued his work at Leipzig until his sudden death on August 9, 1904 in Ammerland, Germany.\nRatzel, a scholar of versatile academic interest, was a staunch German. During the outbreak of Franco-Prussian war in 1870, he joined the Prussian army and was wounded twice during the war.\n\nInfluenced by thinkers including Darwin and zoologist Ernst Heinrich Haeckel, he published several papers. Among them is the essay \"Lebensraum\" (1901) concerning biogeography, creating a foundation for the uniquely German variant of geopolitics: \"Geopolitik\".\n\nRatzel’s writings coincided with the growth of German industrialism after the Franco-Prussian war and the subsequent search for markets that brought it into competition with Britain. His writings served as welcome justification for imperial expansion. Influenced by the American geostrategist Alfred Thayer Mahan, Ratzel wrote of aspirations for German naval reach, agreeing that sea power was self-sustaining, as the profit from trade would pay for the merchant marine, unlike land power.\n\nRatzel’s key contribution to \"geopolitik\" was the expansion on the biological conception of geography, without a static conception of borders. States are instead organic and growing, with borders representing only a temporary stop in their movement. It is not the state proper that is the organism but the land in its spiritual bond with the people, who draw sustenance from it. The expanse of a state’s borders is a reflection of the health of the nation.\n\nRatzel’s idea of \"Raum\" (space) would grow out of his organic state conception. His early concept of \"lebensraum\" was not political or economic but spiritual and racial nationalist expansion. The \"Raum-motiv\" is a historically-driving force, pushing peoples with great \"Kultur\" to naturally expand. Space, for Ratzel, was a vague concept, theoretically unbounded. \"Raum\" was defined as where German peoples live, and other weaker states could serve to support German peoples economically, and German culture could fertilize other cultures. However, it ought to be noted that Ratzel's concept of \"raum\" was not overtly aggressive, but he theorized simply as the natural expansion of strong states into areas controlled by weaker states.\n\nThe book for which Ratzel is acknowledged all over the world is \"Anthropogeographie\". It was completed between 1872 and 1899. The main focus of this monumental work is on the effects of different physical features and locations on the style and life of the people.\n\n\nHere are his other notable writings:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2215706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215706", "title": "Ghazi Falah", "text": "Ghazi Falah\n\nGhazi-Walid Falah (, ) is a Bedouin Israeli-Canadian geographer, who is a tenured professor at the University of Akron, Ohio. He is an expert on political, social and urban geography of the Middle East and the Arab World, with special emphasis on Israel. He has published over 45 articles in 23 peer reviewed journals, and he has given papers at numerous conferences. He is author and co-editor of five books and monographs, including \"Geographies of Muslim Women\" (Guilford Publications, 2005), co-edited with Caroline Nagel. He also has co-authored articles with two colleagues, David Newman and Colin Flint, with whom he has conducted joint research.\n\nFalah is a founder of the Toronto-based peer review international journal\" The Arab World Geographer\" and serves as its Editor-in-Chief. The \"AWG\" has become the major journal published in English for research on the geography of the Arab, Muslim, and Middle-Eastern worlds.\n\nGhazi-Walid Falah was born in the village of Falahat Al Batouf, Galilee, Israel. He earned his B.A and M.A from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and PhD in Geography from Durham University, U.K. After completing his doctorate in 1982, Dr. Falah taught geography for a short period at Tel Aviv University, An-Najah University and in Hebron.\n\nIn 1987, he established the Galilee Center for Social Research in Nazareth, a research institute focused on Arab communities living in Israel, and he served as its first Executive Director until relocating to North America in 1991. There he was appointed as Fulbright Scholar and Visiting Associate Professor of Geography at the University of Northern Iowa.\n\nIn 1993, Falah migrated to Canada and subsequently became a Canadian citizen. He started a new chapter in his academic career in Toronto, with a grant from the MacArthur Foundation, and was based at the University of Toronto as Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Geography and Planning. During that same period, he was also a visiting scholar for five months at the University of Paris, Sorbonne, supported by a French CNRS research grant. His research has included studies of the differential distribution of facilities in Israeli Jewish and Arab areas.\n\nHe joined the University of Toronto Centre for Urban and Community Studies in 1995 as Research Associate, remaining there until 2001. While working on his research in Toronto, Falah also served, 1995-1997, as Lecturer at the University of Wales, Lampeter, a center for studies on the Muslim world. He then returned to the U.S., and accepted a position in the Department of Geography and Planning at the University of Akron in Ohio.\n\nHe was held for over three weeks in an Israeli jail after he was arrested on suspicion of espionage on July 8, 2006, while touring near the Lebanon border. The arrest occurred one week before the 2006 Israeli-Lebanon conflict. He was denied access to a lawyer for the first 18 days of his detention.\n\nOn July 30, 2006, the Israeli Shin Bet security service and the Israeli police released Dr. Falah without filing charges against him.\n\nIn recent years, Ghazi Falah has broadened his interests to include the geography of the media, focusing on the representation of Arabs and Muslims in daily newspapers in the U.S. His professional visits to Arab and Muslim countries include Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia, Lebanon, Syria, UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, and Iran.\n\nAt present, Ghazi Falah is a tenured Full Professor at the University of Akron and engaged in research on American bilateral relations with the Arab world. This new project is based on an extensive student opinion survey conducted at university campuses in Lebanon and Kuwait. Geographers Colin Flint and Patrick McGreevey are co-researchers in this project.\n"}
{"id": "58002935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58002935", "title": "Global Dryland Alliance", "text": "Global Dryland Alliance\n\nThe Global Dryland Alliance (GDA) is an international organization composed of dryland countries and is headquartered in Doha, Qatar. Officially formed in October 2017 with a membership of 13 countries, the organization has the stated aim of advancing food security for dryland nations and innovating technologies in the fields of agriculture and water security.\n\nPreliminary drafts for the establishment of the GDA were first laid out in 2011. In September 2011, Qatari diplomat Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser first publicly brought up the idea of forming a group for dryland countries at a United Nations (U.N.) meeting as a way to help improve food security. Qatari capital Doha played host to a meeting of sixteen prospective member countries and various potential partner groups in September 2012. The next year, Qatari Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani pledged a full committal to the formation of the GDA at the 68th U.N. General Assembly.\n\nAt the Ministerial Conference on Food Security in Drylands held in May 2015 in Marakesh, Morocco, a draft establishment treaty of the GDA was presented to the delegations in attendance. The inaugural GDA conference took place on 15 October 2017 in Doha, during which the foundation treaty was signed by representatives of 13 countries. During the conference, it was announced that Qatar would fund the organization for the following two years and that its base of operations would be in Doha.\n\nAccording to the GDA, one-third of the world's population live in drylands, which make up roughly 40% of the Earth's land surface. Drylands face many agricultural and water challenges due to several factors such as droughts, temperature extremes, soil erosion and shallow soil depth. Hence, the GDA has outlined several ways to help improve the food security of nations with large swathes of drylands, such as forming partnerships with private and public sector organizations, sharing and developing technologies that will help boost food security, financing food security projects in member countries, and addressing food security policies of dryland countries.\n"}
{"id": "1331480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1331480", "title": "Gnomonic projection", "text": "Gnomonic projection\n\nA gnomonic map projection displays all great circles as straight lines, resulting in any straight line segment on a gnomonic map showing a geodesic, the shortest route between the segment's two endpoints. This is achieved by casting surface points of the sphere onto a tangent plane, each landing where a ray from the center of the sphere passes through the point on the surface and then on to the plane. No distortion occurs at the tangent point, but distortion increases rapidly away from it. Less than half of the sphere can be projected onto a finite map. Consequently, a rectilinear photographic lens, which is based on the gnomonic principle, cannot image more than 180 degrees.\n\nThe gnomonic projection is said to be the oldest map projection, developed by Thales in the 6th century BC.\nThe path of the shadow-tip or light-spot in a nodus-based sundial traces out the same hyperbolae formed by parallels on a gnomonic map.\n\nSince meridians and the equator are great circles, they are always shown as straight lines on a gnomonic map.\n\n\nAs with all azimuthal projections, angles from the tangent point are preserved. The map distance from that point is a function \"r\"(\"d\") of the true distance \"d\", given by\n\nwhere \"R\" is the radius of the Earth. The radial scale is\n\nand the transverse scale\n\nso the transverse scale increases outwardly, and the radial scale even more.\n\nGnomonic projections are used in seismic work because seismic waves tend to travel along great circles. They are also used by navies in plotting direction finding bearings, since radio signals travel along great circles. Meteors also travel along great circles, with the Gnomonic Atlas Brno 2000.0 being the IMO's recommended set of star charts for visual meteor observations. Aircraft and ship pilots use the projection to find the shortest route between start and destination.\n\nThe gnomonic projection is used extensively in photography, where it is called \"rectilinear projection\".\n\nThe gnomonic projection is used in astronomy where the tangent point is centered on the object of interest. The sphere being projected in this case is the celestial sphere, \"R\" = 1, and not the surface of the Earth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31202492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31202492", "title": "Google Street View in Africa", "text": "Google Street View in Africa\n\nPresently, in Africa, Google Street View can be seen in parts of Botswana, Uganda, South Africa, Swaziland, Lesotho, Senegal, Ghana, Tunisia, Nigeria, the Canary Islands of Spain, and Egypt's landmarks.\n\nOn September 1, 2009, Google announced that it started collecting images in South Africa for Google Maps Street View. Google is currently driving around South Africa in Toyota Priuses, taking photographs of locations in the cities of Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Durban and East London. Google Trikes are also being used for the first time to map popular tourist destinations, such as the scenic Chapman's Peak Drive and Table Mountain in Cape Town, Soccer City in Johannesburg, and the new Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban.\nImages of South Africa were made available on Google Street View on June 8, 2010.\n\nOn December 8, 2010, more locations in South Africa were added. These were mostly rural and main roads, as well as a much larger coverage of the Limpopo province. After the update, the borders of South Africa's neighboring countries could be reached.\n\nOn September 9, 2014, landmarks in Egypt were added.\n\nIn 2017, the coverage of Nigeria is planned.\n\nReference:\n\nLandmarks in Egypt including Pyramids of Giza, Cairo Citadel, Saqqara, Monastery of Saint Mina, Citadel of Qaitbay and more\nMost roads in Réunion.\nMain roads and several cities throughout the country\n\nSamburu National Reserve, Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, parts of Marania Farm near Mount Kenya\nWestern half of the country: Maseru and major roads.\nCities: Antananarivo, Morondava, Ambanja, Tulear, Belo sur Mer\nLandmarks and water views of Barren Isles, Nosy Komba, Sambirano River, Ambalahonko, Velondriake, Avenue of the Baobabs, and the Sacred Forest\nLagos and surroundings\nMadeira geographically belongs to Africa according to geographical definitions (closest mainland).\nMost towns, cities, villages, major and rural roads are covered.\n\nThe Azores have a location with little more unclear connection to a continent. Anyway, the islands of São Miguel Island and Terceira Island have good coverage.\n\nMain roads and several cities throughout the country\nThe Canary Islands do geographically belong to Africa according to geographical definitions (closest mainland).\n\nMost towns, cities, villages, major and rural roads in the Canary Islands are covered.\nCeuta and Melilla have some coverage.\nMost cities and roads.\nThe coastal main road and selected streets in cities along it, including Tunis and Sfax\nUganda got views of most roads inside and around Entebbe and Kampala.\nThere are dense sequences of photo spheres along main roads, similar to full Street View coverage\n"}
{"id": "466554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466554", "title": "Governor-General of Jamaica", "text": "Governor-General of Jamaica\n\nThe Governor-General of Jamaica represents the Jamaican monarch and head of state, currently Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nThe Queen, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoints a governor-general as her representative in Jamaica. Both The Queen and the Governor-General hold much power, but rarely exercise it, usually only in emergencies and, in some cases, war.\n\nThe Governor-General represents the monarch on ceremonial occasions such as the State Opening of Parliament, the presentation of honours, and military parades. Under the Constitution, he or she is given authority to act in some matters, for example in appointing and disciplining officers of the civil service, proroguing Parliament, and so on, but only in a few cases does he or she have the power to act entirely at his or her own discretion.\n\nJamaican republicanism, a position which is held by the current Jamaican government, generally advocates for the replacement of the Governor-General with a president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38927180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38927180", "title": "Henri Gaussen", "text": "Henri Gaussen\n\nMarcel-Henri Gaussen (14 July 1891 in Cabrières-d'Aigues (Vaucluse) - 27 July 1981 in Toulouse), was a French botanist and biogeographer.\nIn 1926, he defended his thesis on \"the vegetation of the eastern half of the Pyrenees\", which laid the foundation for future work on the border between biogeography and vegetation mapping. Gaussen was an early advocate of the ideas of stages and vegetation succession, which are fundamental to phytogeography. His work allowed for the production of a vegetation map of France at a scale of 1/200 000 (completed after his death by the service of the CNRS, but which he had created and directed) and many similar projects in other countries. His work led to many advanced phytogeographic tools such as \"Gaussen index\", the \"xerothermic index\" and \"ombrothermic diagram \". As recognition for his scientific work in mapping of vegetation cover and ecology, he received in 1971 the Grand Prix of the Geographical Society for geographical research and publications.\n\nHe was also responsible for the creation in 1922 of the Arboretum de Jouéou, and for the strength and reputation of teaching and research in botany at the University of Toulouse. A great traveller, he was also the creator of a science section at the French Institute of Pondicherry. He worked with Flora Europaea as a regional adviser for France.\n\nHenri Gaussen spent his entire career as a professor at Toulouse, where he was also in 1958 elected as a \"mainteneur\" (council member) of the Académie des Jeux floraux. \n\nHaving accumulated an impressive number of personal photographs, he donated his collection to the archives of the department of Haute-Garonne, where they can still be viewed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "332727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332727", "title": "History of gardening", "text": "History of gardening\n\nThe history of ornamental gardening may be considered as aesthetic expressions of beauty through art and nature, a display of taste or style in civilized life, an expression of an individual's or culture's philosophy, and sometimes as a display of private status or national pride—in private and public landscapes.\n\nForest gardening, a plant-based food pro-system, is the world's oldest form of gardening. Forest gardens originated in prehistoric times along jungle-clad river banks and in the wet foothills of monsoon regions. In the gradual process of families improving their immediate environment, useful tree and vine species were identified, protected, and improved while undesirable species were eliminated. Eventually alien species were also selected and incorporated into the gardens.\n\nThe enclosure of outdoor space began in 10,000 BC. Though no one knows the specific details of the first garden, historians imagine the first enclosure was a type of barrier for excluding animals and marauders. Garden construction and design was a primary precursor to landscape architecture, and it began in West Asia, eventually spreading westward into Greece, Spain, Germany, France, Britain, etc. The modern words of \"garden\" and \"yard\" are descendants of the Old English \"geard\", which denotes a fence or enclosure.\n\nVitruvius, a Roman author and engineer, wrote the oldest extant design manual in 27 BC. \"De architectura libri decem\" (\"Ten Books on Architecture\") addressed design theory, landscape architecture, engineering, water supply, and public projects, such as parks and squares. Vitruvius asserted that \"firmitas\" (firmness, durability, strength), \"utilitas\" (commodity, convenience, utility) and \"venustas\" (delight, loveliness, beauty) were the primary objectives of design. Some still consider these elements essential to quality design of landscape.\n\nAfter the emergence of the first civilizations, wealthy persons began to create gardens for purely aesthetic purposes. Egyptian tomb paintings of the 16th century BC are some of the earliest physical evidence of ornamental horticulture and landscape design; they depict lotus ponds surrounded by symmetrical rows of acacias and palms. Another ancient tradition is of Persia: Darius the Great was said to have had a \"paradise garden\" and the Hanging Gardens of Babylon were renowned as one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. Persian gardens were designed along a central axis of symmetry.\n\nPersian influences extended to Hellenistic Greece after Alexander the Great. C. 350 BC there were gardens at the Academy of Athens, and Theophrastus, who wrote on botany, supposedly inherited a garden from Aristotle. Epicurus had a garden where he walked and taught, and he bequeathed it to Hermarchus of Mytilene. Alciphron also referenced private gardens in his writing.\n\nThe most influential ancient gardens in the western world were those of Ptolemy in Alexandria, Egypt and the horticultural tradition that Lucullus brought to Rome. Wall paintings in Pompeii, Italy attest to later elaborate development. The wealthiest Romans built extensive villa gardens with water features, including fountains and rivulets, topiary, roses, and shaded arcades. Archeological evidence survives at sites such as Hadrian's Villa.\n\nByzantium and Moorish Spain continued horticultural traditions after the 4th century AD and the decline of Rome. By this time, a separate horticultural tradition formed in China, which was transmitted to Japan, where it developed into aristocratic gardens featuring miniaturized and simulated natural landscapes centered on ponds, and the severe Zen garden form featured at temples.\n\nIn Europe, gardening revived in Languedoc and the Île-de-France in the 13th century. The rediscovery of descriptions of antique Roman villas and gardens led to the creation of a new form of garden, the Italian Renaissance garden in the late 15th and early 16th centuries. The Spanish Crown built the first public parks of this era in the 16th century, both in Europe and the Americas. The formal garden à la française, exemplified by the Gardens of Versailles, became the dominant horticultural style in Europe until the middle of the 18th century, when the English landscape garden and the French landscape garden acceded to dominance. In the 19th century a welter of historical revivals and Romantic cottage-inspired gardening emerged. In England, William Robinson and Gertrude Jekyll were influential proponents of the wild garden and the perennial garden, respectively. Andrew Jackson Downing and Frederick Law Olmsted adapted European forms for North America, especially influencing the design of public parks, campuses and suburban landscapes. Olmsted's influence extended well into the 20th century.\nThe 20th century saw the influence of modernism in the garden: from the articulate clarity of Thomas Church to the bold colors and forms of the Brazilian Roberto Burle Marx.\n\nEnvironmental consciousness and sustainable design practices, such as green roofs and rainwater harvesting, are becoming widely practiced as innovations in these fields continue to develop.\n\nMesopotamia - the \"land between the Rivers\" Tigris and Euphrates - comprises a hilly and mountainous northern area and a flat, alluvial south. Its peoples (Sumerians, Akkadians, Assyrians, and Babylonians) were urban and literate from about 3,000BC. Evidence for their gardens comes from written texts, pictorial sculpture and archaeology. In western tradition Mesopotamia was the location of the Garden of Eden and the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. Temple gardens developed from the representation of a sacred grove; several distinct styles of royal garden are also known.\n\nThe courtyard garden was enclosed by the walls of a palace, or on a larger scale was a cultivated place inside the city walls. At Mari on the Middle Euphrates (c 1,800BC) one of the huge palace courtyards was called the Court of the Palms in contemporary written records. It is crossed by raised walkways of baked brick; the king and his entourage would dine there. At Ugarit (c1,400BC) there was a stone water basin, not located centrally as in later Persian gardens, for the central feature was probably a tree (date palm or tamarisk). The 7th century BC Assyrian king Assurbanipal is shown on a sculpture feasting with his queen, reclining on a couch beneath an arbour of vines, attended by musicians. Trophies of conquest are on display, including the dismembered head of the king of Elam hanging from a fragrant pine branch. A Babylonian text from the same period is divided into sections as if showing beds of soil with the names of medicinal, vegetable and herbal plants written into each square, perhaps representing a \"parterre\" design.\n\nOn a larger scale royal hunting parks were established to hold the exotic animals and plants which the king had acquired on his foreign campaigns. King Tiglath-Pileser I (c 1,000BC) lists horses, oxen, asses, deer of two types, gazelle and ibex, boasting \"I numbered them like flocks of sheep.\"\n\nFrom around 1,000 BC the Assyrian kings developed a style of city garden incorporating a naturalistic layout, running water supplied from river headwaters, and exotic plants from their foreign campaigns. Assurnasirpal II (883-859BC) lists pines of different kinds, cypresses and junipers of different kinds, almonds, dates, ebony, rosewood, olive, oak, tamarisk, walnut, terebinth and ash, fir pomegranate, pear, quince, fig and grapevines: \"The canal water gushes from above into the gardens; fragrance pervades the walkways; streams of water as numerous as the stars of heaven flow in the pleasure garden... Like a squirrel I pick fruit in the garden of delights.\" The city garden reached its zenith with the palace design of Sennacherib (704-681BC) whose water system stretched for 50 km into the hills, whose garden was higher and more ornate than any others, and who boasted of the complex technologies he deployed, calling his palace and garden \"a Wonder for all Peoples\".\n\nThe biblical Book of Genesis mentions the Tigris and Euphrates as two of the four rivers bounding the Garden of Eden. No specific place has been identified, although there are many theories.\n\nThe Hanging Gardens of Babylon are listed by classical Greek writers as one of the Seven Wonders of the World – places to see before you die. The excavated ruins of Babylon do not reveal any suitable evidence, which has led some scholars to suggest that they may have been purely legendary. Alternatively the story may have originated from Sennacherib's garden in Nineveh.\n\nAll Persian gardens, from the ancient to the high classical were developed in opposition to the harsh and arid landscape of the Iranian Plateau. Unlike historical European gardens, which seemed carved or re-ordered from within their existing landscape, Persian gardens appeared as impossibilities. Their ethereal and delicate qualities emphasized their intrinsic contrast to the hostile environment. Trees and trellises largely feature as biotic shade; pavilions and walls are also structurally prominent in blocking the sun.\nThe heat also makes water important, both in the design and maintenance of the garden. Irrigation may be required, and may be provided via a form of underground tunnel called a qanat, that transports water from a local aquifer. Well-like structures then connect to the qanat, enabling the drawing of water. Alternatively, an animal-driven Persian well would draw water to the surface. Such wheel systems also moved water around surface water systems, such as those in the chahar bāgh style. Trees were often planted in a ditch called a juy, which prevented water evaporation and allowed the water quick access to the tree roots.\nThe Persian style often attempts to integrate indoors with outdoors through the connection of a surrounding garden with an inner courtyard. Designers often place architectural elements such as vaulted arches between the outer and interior areas to open up the divide between them.\n\nGardens were much cherished in the Egyptian times and were kept both for secular purposes and attached to temple compounds. Gardens in private homes and villas before the New Kingdom were mostly used for growing vegetables and located close to a canal or the river. However, in the New Kingdom they were often surrounded by walls and their purpose incorporated pleasure and beauty besides utility.\nGarden produce made out an important part of foodstuff but flowers were also cultivated for use in garlands to wear at festive occasions and for medicinal purposes. While the poor kept a patch for growing vegetables, the rich people could afford gardens lined with sheltering trees and decorative pools with fish and waterfowl. There could be wooden structures forming pergolas to support vines of grapes from which raisins and wine were produced. There could even be elaborate stone kiosks for ornamental reasons, with decorative statues.\n\nTemple gardens had plots for cultivating special vegetables, plants or herbs considered sacred to a certain deity and which were required in rituals and offerings like lettuce to Min. Sacred groves and ornamental trees were planted in front of or near both cult temples and mortuary temples. As temples were representations of heaven and built as the actual home of the god, gardens were laid out according to the same principle. Avenues leading up to the entrance could be lined with trees, courtyards could hold small gardens and between temple buildings gardens with trees, vineyards, flowers and ponds were maintained.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian garden would have looked different from a modern garden. It would have seemed more like a collection of herbs or a patch of wild flowers, lacking the specially bred flowers of today. Flowers like the iris, chrysanthemum, lily and delphinium (blue), were certainly known to the ancients but do not feature much in garden scenes. Formal boquets seem to have been composed of mandrake, poppy, cornflower and or lotus and papyrus.\n\nDue to the arid climate of Egypt, tending gardens meant constant attention and depended on irrigation. Skilled gardeners were employed by temples and households of the wealthy. Duties included planting, weeding, watering by means of a shaduf, pruning of fruit trees, digging the ground, harvesting the fruit etc.\n\nIt is curious that although the Egyptians and Romans both gardened with vigor, the Greeks did not own private gardens. They did put gardens around temples and they adorned walkways and roads with statues, but the ornate and pleasure gardens that demonstrated wealth in the other communities is seemingly absent.\nRoman gardens were a place of peace and solitude, a refuge from urban life. Ornamental horticulture became highly developed during the development of Roman civilization. The administrators of the Roman Empire (c.100 BC - 500 AD) actively exchanged information on agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, hydraulics, and botany. Seeds and plants were widely shared. The Gardens of Lucullus (Horti Lucullani) on the Pincian Hill on the edge of Rome introduced the Persian garden to Europe, about 60 BC.\n\nBoth Chinese and Japanese garden design traditionally is intended to evoke the natural landscape of mountains and rivers. However, the intended viewpoint of the gardens differs: Chinese gardens were intended to be viewed from within the garden and are intended as a setting for everyday life. Japanese gardens, with a few exceptions, were intended to be viewed from within the house, somewhat like a diorama. Additionally, Chinese gardens more often included a water feature, while Japanese gardens, set in a wetter climate, would often get by with the suggestion of water. (Such as sand or pebbles raked into a wave pattern.) Traditional Chinese gardens are also more likely to treat the plants in a naturalistic way, while traditional Japanese gardens might feature plants sheared into mountain shapes. This contrasts with the handling of stone elements: in a Japanese garden, stones are placed in groupings as part of the landscape, but in a Chinese garden, a particularly choice stone might even be placed on a pedestal in a prominent location so that it might be more easily appreciated.\n\nThe style of Chinese garden varies among economic groups and differs by dynasties. Rocks, water, bridges and pavilions are among the most common features of scholar gardens for the wealthy classes, while courtyards, wells, and terra cotta fish tanks are common among general population. Other features such as moon gates and leaky windows (openwork screens that pierce surrounding walls) are seen in both groups.\n\nThe development of landscape design in China was historically driven by philosophies of both Confucianism and Taoism. Geometric symmetry and reinforcement of class boundaries were typical characteristics of landscape design in Asian cities, and both characteristics reflect Confucian ideals. While the British used nature outside the home to provide privacy, Chinese homes were compounds made of a number of buildings which all faced one or more courtyards or common areas. Rather than around the home, the Chinese valued natural spaces inside the compound, which is where the family socialized. Furthermore, Courtyards in the Chinese home reflected Taoist philosophies, where families would try to create abstractions of nature rather than recreations of it. For example, a Taoist garden would avoid straight lines and use stone and water instead of trees, whereas Asian cities followed Confucian, geometric designs and North American parks typically feature trees and lawns.\n\nThere are two ways of looking at the signature design characteristics of the Chinese garden: first, the concept of Yin and Yang and second, the myths of longevity that arose during the Qin Dynasty.\n\nThe philosophy of Yin and Yang portrays the idea of balance and harmony. The Chinese garden expresses the relationship to nature and the idea of balance through the art of mimicking natural setting, thus the existence of mountains, rocks, water, and wind elements. Yin and Yang juxtapose complementary opposites: as hard as rock can be, the softness of water can dissolve it. Lake Tai rocks, limestone eroded by the water of Lake Tai, are the quintessential example. Water, air and light run through the rock as it sit still on display. The leaky windows of the Chinese garden wall portray both steadiness and movement. The windows create a solid painting on walls, however that steadiness changes once the wind blows or the eyes move.\n\nChinese garden's structure is based upon the culture's creation myth, rooted in rocks and water. To have longevity is to live among mountains and water; it is to live with nature, to live like an immortal being (Xian). The garden evokes a healthy lifestyle that makes one immortal, free from the problems of civilization. Thus, Chinese landscape is known as Shan (mountain) and Shui (water). (Add Roger's citation).\n\nSymbolism is a key element of Chinese garden design. To the earthy tones of the Chinese garden, a touch of red or gold is often added to bring forth the Yin/Yang contrast. The colors red and gold also represent luck and wealth. Bats, dragons and other mystic creatures carved on wooden doors are also commonly found in Chinese gardens; these are signs of luck and protection.\n\nCircles portray togetherness, especially for family members, and are depicted in moon gates and round tables placed within square backgrounds. The moon gate and other whimsical doorways also act to frame views and to force the viewer to pause for a transition into a new space.\n\nPaths in Chinese gardens are often uneven and sometimes consciously zigzag. These paths are like the passages of a human life. There is always something new or different when seen from a different angle, while the future is unknown and unpredictable.\n\nThe Byzantine empire span a period of more than 1000 years (330–1453 AD) and a geographic area from modern day Spain and Britain to the Middle East and north Africa. Probably due to this temporal and geographic spread and its turbulent history, there is no single dominant garden style that can be labeled \"Byzantine style\". Archaeological evidence of public, imperial, and private gardens is scant at best and researchers over the years have relied on literary sources to derive clues about the main features of Byzantine gardens. Romance novels such as Hysmine and Hysminias (12th century) included detailed descriptions of gardens and their popularity attests to the Byzantines’ enthusiasm for pleasure gardens (locus amoenus). More formal gardening texts such as the Geoponika (10th century) were in fact encyclopedias of accumulated agricultural practices (grafting, watering) and pagan lore (astrology, plant sympathy/antipathy relationships) going back to Hesiod's time. Their repeated publications and translations to other languages well into the 16th century is evidence to the value attributed to the horticultural knowledge of antiquity. These literary sources worked as handbooks promoting the concepts of walled gardens with plants arranged by type. Such ideals found expression in the suburban parks (Philopation, Aretai) and palatial gardens (Mesokepion, Mangana) of Constantinople.\n\nThe Byzantine garden tradition was influenced by the strong undercurrents of history that the empire itself was exposed to. The first and foremost influence was the adoption of Christianity as the empire's official religion by its founder Constantine I. The new religion signaled a departure from the ornamental pagan sculptures of the Greco-Roman garden style. The second influence was the increasing contact with the Islamic nations of the Middle East especially after the 9th century. Lavish furnishings in the emperor's palace and the adoption of automata in the palatial gardens are evidence of this influence. The third factor was a fundamental shift in the design of the Byzantine cities after the 7th century when they became smaller in size and population as well as more ruralized. The class of wealthy aristocrats who could finance and maintain elaborate gardens probably shrank as well. The final factor was a shifting view toward a more \"enclosed\" garden space (hortus conclusus); a trend dominant in Europe at that time. The open views and vistas so much favored by the garden builders of the Roman villas were replaced by garden walls and scenic views painted on the inside of these walls. The concept of the heavenly paradise was an enclosed garden gained popularity during that time and especially after the iconoclastic period (7th century) with the emphasis it placed on divine punishment and repentance.\n\nAn area of horticulture that flourished throughout the long history of Byzantium was that practiced by monasteries. Although archaeological evidence has provided limited evidence of monastic horticulture, a great deal can be learned by studying the foundation documents (τυπικόν, typikon) of the numerous Christian monasteries as well as the biographies of saints describing their gardening activities. From these sources we learn that monasteries maintained gardens outside their walls and watered them with complex irrigation systems fed by springs or rainwater. These gardens contained vineyards, broadleaf vegetables, and fruit trees for the sustenance of monks and pilgrims alike. The role of the gardener was frequently assumed by monks as an act of humility. Monastic horticultural practices established at that time are still in use in Christian monasteries throughout Greece and the Middle East.\n\nMonasteries carried on a tradition of garden design and intense horticultural techniques during the medieval period in Europe. Rather than any one particular horticultural technique employed, it is the variety of different purposes the monasteries had for their gardens that serves as testament to their sophistication. As for gardening practices, records are limited, and there are no extant monastic gardens that are entirely true to original form. There are, however, records and plans that indicate the types of garden a monastery might have had, such as those for St. Gall in Switzerland.\n\nGenerally, monastic garden types consisted of kitchen gardens, infirmary gardens, cemetery orchards, cloister garths and vineyards. Individual monasteries might also have had a \"green court\", a plot of grass and trees where horses could graze, as well as a cellarer's garden or private gardens for obedientiaries, monks who held specific posts within the monastery.\n\nFrom a utilitarian standpoint, vegetable and herb gardens helped provide both alimentary and medicinal crops, which could be used to feed or treat the monks and, in some cases, the outside community. As detailed in the plans for St. Gall, these gardens were laid out in rectangular plots, with narrow paths between them to facilitate collection of yields. Often these beds were surrounded with wattle fencing to prevent animals from entry. In the kitchen gardens, fennel, cabbage, onion, garlic, leeks, radishes, and parsnips might be grown, as well as peas, lentils and beans if space allowed for them. The infirmary gardens could contain \"Rosa gallica\" (\"The Apothecary Rose\"), savory, costmary, fenugreek, rosemary, peppermint, rue, iris, sage, bergamot, mint, lovage, fennel and cumin, amongst other herbs.\n\nThe herb and vegetable gardens served a purpose beyond that of production, and that was that their installation and maintenance allowed the monks to fulfill the manual labor component of the religious way of life prescribed by Rule of St. Benedict.\n\nOrchards also served as sites for food production and as arenas for manual labor, and cemetery orchards, such as that detailed in the plan for St. Gall, showed yet more versatility. The cemetery orchard not only produced fruit, but manifested as a natural symbol of the garden of Paradise. This bi-fold concept of the garden as a space that met both physical and spiritual needs was carried over to the cloister garth.\n\nThe cloister garth, a claustrum consisting of the viridarium, a rectangular plot of grass surrounded by peristyle arcades, was barred to the laity, and served primarily as a place of retreat, a locus of the ‘vita contempliva’. The viridarium was often bisected or quartered by paths, and often featured a roofed fountain at the center or side of the garth that served as a primary source for wash water and for irrigation, meeting yet more physical needs. Some cloister gardens contained small fish ponds as well, another source of food for the community. The arcades were used for teaching, sitting and meditating, or for exercise in inclement weather.\n\nThere is much conjecture as to ways in which the garth served as a spiritual aid. Umberto Eco describes the green swath as a sort of balm on which a monk might rest weary eyes, so as to return to reading with renewed vigor. Some scholars suggest that, though sparsely planted, plant materials found in the cloister garth might have inspired various religious visions. This tendency to imbue the garden with symbolic values was not inherent to the religious orders alone, but was a feature of medieval culture in general. The square closter garth was meant to represent the four points of the compass, and so the universe as a whole. As Turner puts it,\nWalking around the cloister while meditating was a way of devoting oneself to the \"path of life\"; indeed, each of the monastic gardens was imbued with symbolic as well as palpable value, testifying to the ingenuity of its creators.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages, texts, art and literary works provide a picture of developments in garden design. During the late 12th to 15th centuries, European cities were walled for internal defense and to control trade. Though space within these walls was limited, surviving documents show that there were animals, fruit trees and kitchen gardens inside the city limits.\n\nPietro Crescenzi, a Bolognese lawyer, wrote twelve volumes on the practical aspects of farming in the 13th century and they offer a description of medieval gardening practices. From his text we know that gardens were surrounded with stonewalls, thick hedging or fencing and incorporated trellises and arbors. They borrowed their form from the square or rectangular shape of the cloister and included square planting beds.\n\nGrass was also first noted in the medieval garden. In the \"De Vegetabilibus\" of Albertus Magnus written around 1260, instructions are given for planting grass plots. Raised banks covered in turf called \"Turf Seats\" were constructed to provide seating in the garden. Fruit trees were prevalent and often grafted to produce new varieties of fruit. Gardens included a raised mound or mount to serve as a stage for viewing and planting beds were customarily elevated on raised platforms.\n\nTwo works from the late Middle Ages discuss plant cultivation. In the English poem \"The Feate of Gardinage\" by Jon Gardener and the general household advice given in Le Ménagier de Paris of 1393, a variety of herbs, flowers, fruit trees and bushes were listed with instructions on their cultivation. The Menagier provides advice by season on sowing, planting and grafting. The most sophisticated gardening during the Middle Ages was done at the monasteries. Monks developed horticultural techniques, and cultivated herbs, fruits and vegetables. Using the medicinal herbs they grew, monks treated those suffering inside the monastery and in surrounding communities.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, gardens were thought to unite the earthly with the divine. The enclosed garden as an allegory for paradise or a \"lost Eden\" was termed the \"Hortus Conclusus\". Freighted with religious and spiritual significance, enclosed gardens were often depicted in the visual arts, picturing the Virgin Mary, a fountain, a unicorn and roses inside an enclosed area.\n\nThough Medieval gardens lacked many of the features of the Renaissance gardens that followed them, some of the characteristics of these gardens continue to be incorporated today.\n\n\nThe French Classical garden style, or Garden à la française, climaxed during the reign of Louis XIV of France (1638–1715) and his head gardener of Gardens of Versailles, André Le Nôtre (1613–1700). The inspiration for these gardens initially came from the Italian Renaissance garden of the 14th and 15th centuries and ideas of French philosopher René Descartes (1576–1650). At this time the French opened the garden up to enormous proportions compared to their Italian predecessor. Their gardens epitomize monarch and 'man' dominating and manipulating nature to show his authority, wealth, and power.\n\nRenée Descartes, the founder of analytical geometry, believed that the natural world was objectively measurable and that space is infinitely divisible. His belief that \"all movement is a straight line therefore space is a universal grid of mathematical coordinates and everything can be located on its infinitely extendable planes\" gave us Cartesian mathematics. Through the classical French gardens this coordinate system and philosophy is now given a physical and visual representation.\n\nThis French formal and axial garden style placed the house centrally on an enormous and mainly flat property of land. A large central axis that gets narrower further from the main house, forces the viewer's perspective to the horizon line, making the property look even larger. The viewer is to see the property as a cohesive whole but at the same time is unable to see all the components of the garden. One is to be led through a logical progression or story and be surprised by elements that aren’t visible until approached. There is an allegorical story referring to the owner through statues and water features which have mythological references. There are small, almost imperceptible grade changes that help conceal the gardens surprises as well as elongate the gardens views.\n\nThese grand gardens have organized spaces meant to be elaborate stages for entertaining the court and guests with plays, concerts and fireworks displays. The following list of garden features were used:\n\nDue to being an early hub for Western society and being used for centuries, Mediterranean soil was fragile, and one could think of the region’s landscape culture to be a conflict between fruitfulness and frugality. The area consisted largely of small-scale agricultural plots. Later, following World War II, Mediterranean immigrants brought this agricultural style to Canada, where fruit trees and vegetables in the backyard became common.\n\n\nForested areas played a number of roles for the British in the Middle Ages, and one of those roles was to produce game for the gentry. Lords of valuable land were expected to provide a bounty of animals for hunting during royal visits. Despite being in natural locations, forested manor homes could symbolize status, wealth and power if they appeared to have all amenities. After the Industrial Revolution, Britain’s forest industry shrank until it no longer existed. In response, the Garden City Movement brought urban planning into industrialized areas in the early 20th century to offset negative industrial effects such as pollution.\n\nThere were several traditions that influenced English gardening in the 18th century, the first of which was to plant woods around homes. By the mid-17th century, coppice planting became consistent and was considered visually and aesthetically pleasing. Whereas forested areas were more useful for hunting purposes in Britain during the Middle Ages, 18th century patterns demonstrate a further deviation in gardening approach from practicality toward design meant to please the senses.\n\nLikewise, English pleasure grounds were influenced by medieval groves, some of which were still in existence in 18th century Britain. This influence manifest in the form of shrubbery, sometimes organized in mazes or maze-like formations. And though also ancient, shredding became a common characteristic of these early gardens, as the method enabled light to enter the understory. Shredding was used to make garden groves, which ideally included an orchard with fruit trees, fragrant herbs and flowers, and moss-covered pathways.\n\nThe picturesque garden style emerged in England in the 18th century, one of the growing currents of the larger Romantic movement. Garden designers like William Kent and Capability Brown emulated the allegorical landscape paintings of European artists, especially Claude Lorraine, Poussin and Salvator Rosa. The manicured hills, lakes and trees dotted with allegorical temples were sculpted into the land.\n\nBy the 1790s there was a reaction against these stereotypical compositions; a number of thinkers began to promote the idea of picturesque gardens. The leader of the movement was landscape theorist William Gilpin, an accomplished artist known for his realistic depictions of Nature. He preferred the natural landscape over the manicured and urged designers to respond to the topography of a given site. He also noted that while classical beauty was associated with the smooth and neat, picturesque beauty had a wilder, untamed quality. The picturesque style also incorporated architectural follies—castles, Gothic ruins, rustic cottages—built to add interest and depth to the landscape\n\nControversy between the picturesque school and proponents of the more manicured garden raged well into the 19th century. Landscape designer Humphry Repton supported Gilpin's ideas, particularly that of the garden harmonizing with surrounding landforms. He was attacked in the press by two rival theorists, Richard Payne Knight and Uvedale Price. Repton countered by highlighting the differences between painting and landscape gardening, William Shenstone has been credited with coining the term ‘landscape gardening’. Unlike a painting, the viewer moves through a garden, constantly shifting viewpoints.\n\nThe French landscape garden, also called the \"jardin anglais\" or \"jardin pittoresque\", was influenced by contemporary English gardens. Rococo features like Turkish tents and Chinese bridges are prevalent in French gardens in the 18th century. The French Picturesque garden style falls into two categories: those that were staged, almost like theatrical scenery, usually rustic and exotic, called \"jardin anglo-chinois\", and those filled with pastoral romance and bucolic sentiment, influenced by Jean-Jacques Rousseau. The former style is represented by the Désert de Retz and Parc Monceau, the latter by the Moulin Jolie.\n\nThe rusticity found in French picturesque gardens is also derived from admiration of Dutch 17th-century landscape painting and works of the French 18th-century artists Claude-Henri Watelet, François Boucher and Hubert Robert.\n\nEnglish garden is the common term in the English-speaking world for interpretations, derivations, and revivals in the style of the original Landscape Garden examples.\n\nThe \"Gardenesque\" style of English garden design evolved during the 1820s from Humphry Repton's Picturesque or \"Mixed\" style, largely through the efforts of J. C. Loudon, who invented the term.\n\nIn a Gardenesque plan, all trees, shrubs and other plants are positioned and managed in such a way that the character of each plant can be displayed to its full potential. With the spread of botany as a suitable subject of study for the enlightened, the Gardenesque tended to emphasize botanical curiosities and a collector's approach. New plant material that would have seemed bizarre and alien in earlier gardening found settings: pampas grass from Argentina and monkey-puzzle trees from Chile, for example. Winding paths linked scattered plantings. The Gardenesque approach involved the creation of small-scale landscapes, dotted with features and vignettes, to promote beauty of detail, variety and mystery, sometimes to the detriment of coherence. Artificial mounds helped to stage groupings of shrubs, and island beds became prominent features.\n\nThe books of William Robinson describing his own \"wild\" gardening at Gravetye Manor in Sussex, and the sentimental picture of a rosy, idealized \"cottage garden\" of the kind pictured by Kate Greenaway, which had scarcely existed historically, both influenced the development of the mixed herbaceous borders that were advocated by Gertrude Jekyll at Munstead Wood in Surrey from the 1890s. Her plantings, which mixed shrubs with perennial and annual plants and bulbs in deep beds within more formal structures of terraces and stairs designed by Edwin Lutyens, set the model for high-style, high-maintenance gardening until the Second World War. Vita Sackville-West's garden at Sissinghurst Castle, Kent is the most famous and influential garden of this last blossoming of romantic style, publicized by the gardener's own gardening column in \"The Observer\". The trend continued in the gardening of Margery Fish at East Lambrook Manor. In the last quarter of the 20th century, less structured Wildlife gardening emphasized the ecological framework of similar gardens using native plants. A leading proponent in the United States was the landscape architect Jens Jensen. He designed city and regional parks, and private estates, with a honed aesthetic of art and nature.\n\n\nIn the 20th century, modern design for gardens became important as architects began to design buildings and residences with an eye toward innovation and streamlining the formal Beaux-Arts and derivative early revival styles, removing unnecessary references and embellishment. Garden design, inspired by modern architecture, naturally followed in the same philosophy of \"form following function\". Thus concerning the many philosophies of plant maturity. In post-war United States people's residences and domestic lives became more outdoor oriented, especially in the western states as promoted by 'Sunset Magazine', with the backyard often becoming an outdoor room.\n\nFrank Lloyd Wright demonstrated his interpretation for the modern garden by designing homes in complete harmony with natural surroundings. Taliesin and Fallingwater are both examples of careful placement of architecture in nature so the relationship between the residence and surroundings become seamless. His son Lloyd Wright trained in architecture and landscape architecture in the Olmsted Brothers office, with his father, and with architect Irving Gill. He practiced an innovative organic integration of structure and landscape in his works.\n\nSubsequently, Garrett Eckbo, James Rose, and Dan Kiley – known as the \"bad boys of Harvard\" – met while studying traditional landscape architecture became notable pioneers in the design of modern gardens. As Harvard embraced modern design in their school of architecture, these designers wanted to interpret and incorporate those new ideas in landscape design. They became interested in developing functional space for outdoor living with designs echoing natural surroundings. Modern gardens feature a fresh mix of curved and architectonic designs and many include abstract art in geometrics and sculpture. Spaces are defined with the thoughtful placement of trees and plantings. Thomas Church work in California was influential through his books and other publications. In Sonoma County, California his 1948 Donnell garden's swimming Pool, kidney-shaped with an abstract sculpture within it, became an icon of modern outdoor living.\n\nIn Mexico Luis Barragán explored a synthesis of International style modernism with native Mexican tradition. in private estates and residential development projects such as Jardines del Pedregal \"(English: Rocky Gardens)\" and the San Cristobal 'Los Clubes' Estates in Mexico City. In civic design the Torres de Satélite are urban sculptures of substantial dimensions in Naucalpan, Mexico. His house, studio, and gardens, built in 1948 in Mexico City, was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site in 2004.\n\nRoberto Burle Marx is accredited with having introduced modernist landscape architecture to Brazil. He was known as a modern nature artist and a public urban space designer. He was landscape architect (as well as a botanist, painter, print maker, ecologist, naturalist, artist, and musician) who designed of parks and gardens in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and in the United States in Florida. He worked with the architects Lúcio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer on the landscape design for some of the prominent modernist government buildings in Brazil's capitol Brasília.\n\n\"The following names, roughly in historical order, made contributions that affected the history of gardens, whether as botanist explorers, designers, garden-makers, or writers. Further information on them will be found under their individual entries.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1568987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1568987", "title": "Index of Cameroon-related articles", "text": "Index of Cameroon-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Cameroon include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17848304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17848304", "title": "Index of Guam-related articles", "text": "Index of Guam-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of articles related to the United States Territory of Guam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19489302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19489302", "title": "Index of Mexico-related articles", "text": "Index of Mexico-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical Mexico-related index of topics related to the United Mexican States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51210145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51210145", "title": "Index of Rivers State-related articles", "text": "Index of Rivers State-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of articles related to Rivers State, Nigeria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1851168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1851168", "title": "Indian Remote Sensing Programme", "text": "Indian Remote Sensing Programme\n\nIndia's remote sensing programme under the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) started off in 1988 with the IRS-1A, the first of the series of indigenous state-of-art operating remote sensing satellites,which was successfully launched into a polar sun-synchronous orbit on March 17, 1988 from the Soviet Cosmodrome at Baikonur. \n\nIt was a proud moment for the country and showed the maturity of the satellites in the various requirements for managing natural resources of the nation. It has sensors like LISS-I which had a spatial resolution of 72.5 meters with a swath of 148 km on ground. LISS-II had two separate imaging sensors, LISS-II A and LISS-II B, with spatial resolution of 36.25 meters each and mounted on the spacecraft in such a way to provide a composite swath of 146.98 km on ground.These tools quickly enabled India to map, monitor and manage its natural resources at various spatial resolutions. The operational availability of data products to the user organisations further strengthened the relevance of remote sensing applications and management in the country. \n\nFollowing the successful demonstration flights of Bhaskhar and Bhaskara-2 satellites launched in 1979 and 1981, respectively, India began to develop the indigenous Indian Remote Sensing (IRS) satellite program to support the national economy in the areas of agriculture, water resources, forestry and ecology, geology, water sheds, marine fisheries and coastal management.\n\nTowards this end, India had established the National Natural Resources Management System (NNRMS) for which the Department of Space (DOS) is the nodal agency, providing operational remote sensing data services. Data from the IRS satellites is received and disseminated by several countries all over the world. With the advent of high-resolution satellites new applications in the areas of urban sprawl, infrastructure planning and other large scale applications for mapping have been initiated.\n\nThe IRS system is the largest constellation of remote sensing satellites for civilian use in operation today in the world, with 11 operational satellites. All these are placed in polar Sun-synchronous orbit and provide data in a variety of spatial, spectral and temporal resolutions. Indian Remote Sensing Programme completed its 25 years of successful operations on March 17, 2013.\n\nData from Indian Remote Sensing satellites are used for various applications of resources survey and management under the National Natural Resources Management System (NNRMS). Following is the list of those applications:\n\n\nThe initial versions are composed of the 1 (A,B,C,D). The later versions are named based on their area of application including OceanSat, CartoSat, ResourceSat. Some of the satellites have alternate designations based on the launch number and vehicle (P series for PSLV).\n\nData from IRS are available to its users through NRSC Data Centre and also through Bhuvan Geoportal of ISRO. NRSC data center provide data through its purchase process while Bhuvan Geoportal provides data in free and open domain.\n\nThe capacity building programme of ISRO for IRS and other remote sensing applications is through Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) Dehradun and Center of Space Science and Technology Education in Asia and the Pacific (CSSTEAP)(UN affiliated) Center located at Dehradun of Uttrakhand State in India.\n\nFollowing are the remote sensing satellites planned by ISRO to be launched next strengthening the fleet of IRS satellites and widening their applications:\n\n"}
{"id": "4082703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082703", "title": "Inhaca", "text": "Inhaca\n\nInhaca is a settlement in Mozambique, on the subtropical Inhaca Island (\"\" in Portuguese) off the East African coast. Inhaca settlement is centered on a missionary station located about 32 km east of Maputo.\n\nThe 52 km² island separates Maputo Bay (\"Baía de Maputo\") to the west from the Indian Ocean off its eastern shores. The island's irregular coastline approaches mainland Machangulo Peninsula at Ponta Torres where a 500m-wide tidal race separates the two headlands. In administrative terms Inhaca is a municipal district of the municipality of Maputo, while the Machangulo peninsula is included under the Lubombo Transfrontier Conservation Area and is part of the district of Matutuíne, Maputo Province.\n\nA population of about 6,000 people subsist on fishing and agriculture. At low tide women harvest crabs, oysters and fish from the western shallows. At high tide fishing boats leave the island for deeper sea fishing. The island is a popular winter destination of South African tourists.\n\nTsonga chief Nhaca, a protector of early shipwrecked Portuguese sailors, lends his name to the later settlement. Later 16th century Portuguese traders established an Inhaca Island base to ply the Bay of the Lagoon's (\"Baía da Lagoa\") rivers in search of ivory. A 1747 map by Emanuel Bowen records 'Inhaqua' settlement on the mainland peninsula while referring to the island as 'I. S. Maria'.\n\nThe first light house dates from 1894, and was upgraded in the 1920s. A marine biological station (the 'MBS') was built in 1951 and some of the shores were declared nature reserves in 1976. Of late the biological station came under administration of the Eduardo Mondlane University.\n\nThe Inhacazul Lodge and Pestana Hotel are the main destinations of travellers from where different excursions are often undertaken, including scuba diving and snorkelling outings. Backpackers mostly visit a catering camping area within walking distance of the landing jetty, and are required to take bottled water and their own tents. Inhaca village is within a 5 minute drive from the camp where there are two restaurants, two bars, a grocery store and a marketplace.\n\nThe Island can be visited by means of a Ferry which departs from the Porto de Pesca, Maputo at 8:00 and returns at 15:00 every Saturday and Sunday. Travellers reach the island's landing jetty at high tide, but have to wade some sandy shallows during low tide. \n\nThere are also return flights that depart from Maputo airport and these 18 seater planes reach the island airstrip in fifteen minutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12053340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12053340", "title": "International rankings of Azerbaijan", "text": "International rankings of Azerbaijan\n\nInternational rankings of the Azerbaijan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14290886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14290886", "title": "List of American supercentenarians", "text": "List of American supercentenarians\n\nAmerican supercentenarians are citizens or residents of the United States who have attained or surpassed 110 years of age. , the Gerontology Research Group (GRG) had validated the longevity claims of 782 American supercentenarians. The oldest American alive is Lessie Brown, born September 22, 1904, aged . The oldest person ever from the United States was Sarah Knauss, of Hollywood, Pennsylvania, who died on December 30, 1999, aged 119 years and 97 days.\n\nBelow is a list of supercentenarians who are currently alive in the United States, from oldest to youngest.\n\nBelow is a list of the longest lived American supercentenarians according to the GRG.\n\nBelow is a list of people aged at least 113 who were born in the United States and live or have died in another country.\n\nAnn Pouder (London, United Kingdom April 8, 1807 – Baltimore, Maryland, United States July 10, 1917) was one of the first modernly recognized British American supercentenarians. Her age at death was . When Pouder was twelve years old, her family emigrated to the United States. There she lived the following 98 years of her life in Baltimore, Maryland. She married Nepalese American Citizen Alexander Poudar, although became a widow very early and had no children. Her extreme longevity claim was certified by Alexander Graham Bell. In her last few months, she was bedridden, blind, and almost deaf, but her mind remained sharp.\n\nMary Electa Bidwell (May 19, 1881– April 25, 1996) was an American supercentenarian. She died at age 114 years, 342 days on April 25, 1996. She is the oldest person on record ever to die in Connecticut.\n\nHer parents were Charles Woodruff Bidwell and Alice Beach Nobel. She was a descendant of John Bidwell, one of the founders of Hartford, Connecticut. Bidwell worked as a teacher in a one-room school house for six years. She married Charles Hubbell Bidwell, a distant cousin, in 1906.\n\nBidwell lived on her own in North Haven, Connecticut, until she was 110. Bidwell died at the Arden House, a nursing home in Hamden, Connecticut.\n\nMaggie Pauline Barnes née Hinnant (March 6, 1882 – January 19, 1998) was an American supercentenarian. She was a resident of Johnston County, North Carolina. Barnes died from complications following a minor foot infection. Barnes, who was born to a slave and married a tenant farmer, was survived by four children; 11 of her children preceded her in death.\n\nSome dispute exists as to her date of birth. Though the 1882 date is written in the family's bible, the 1900 US Census lists her as having been born in 1881, and her marriage license says she was born in 1880. Authenticating to the latest of those dates, Barnes was 115 years, 319 days old when she died.\n\nCharlotte Benkner (née Enterlein; November 16, 1889 – May 14, 2004) was an American supercentenarian and the oldest verified living person from Mitoyo Kawate's death in 2003 until sufficient documentation was found to validate the age of Ramona Trinidad Iglesias-Jordan of Puerto Rico in March 2004. The subsequent recognition of María Capovilla of Ecuador in December 2005 placed Benkner at third oldest at the time of her death.\n\nBenkner was born in Leipzig, Germany, and emigrated to the U.S. in 1896. She grew up in Peekskill, New York, where her family ran the \"Albert Hotel\", and as a young woman once met then President of the United States Theodore Roosevelt. On her 1908 marriage to Karl Benkner, she moved west, living in Pennsylvania and Ohio before retiring to Arizona. Already a supercentenarian and the oldest person in Arizona, Benkner returned to Ohio to live in North Lima. She became the oldest recognized person in the United States when 114-year-old Elena Slough died in October 2003. She lived with her sister Tillie O'Hare (the youngest of the siblings), whom she once cared for when their parents were running the hotel, until Tillie (born February 15, 1904) died, just three weeks shy of becoming a centenarian, on January 25, 2004. Benkner survived her sister by only four months, dying at age 114 years 180 days after she was briefly hospitalized in Youngstown, Ohio, and was buried in Peekskill.\n\nEmma Verona Johnston (née Calhoun) (August 6, 1890 – December 1, 2004) was an American supercentenarian who was born in Indianola, Iowa to a large family. She graduated from Drake University in the Class of 1912 and went on to work as a Latin teacher before her marriage to ophthalmologist Harry Johnston; at the time of her death, she was the University's oldest living graduate. At age 98, she moved from Iowa to Ohio in order to live with her daughter and son-in-law. She continued to be in good health even after turning 110, still being able to walk up steps, and was also alert and able to engage in conversations. She became the \"oldest living American\" when Charlotte Benkner died on May 14, 2004. Shortly afterwards, on the occasion of her 114th birthday, she was presented with a proclamation signed by Drake University President David Maxwell. The University's Vice President for Institutional Advancement, John Willey, had nominated her for an honorary degree, arguing that she \"has given new dimension to the Drake ideal of a lifelong learner, and in the integrity of her life, she has affirmed Drake's enduring mission of shaping thoughtful people to be citizens engaged with their times.\" Johnston died in Worthington, Ohio on December 1, 2004, at age 114 years, 117 days.\n\nBettie Antry Wilson née Rutherford (September 13, 1890 – February 13, 2006) was thought to be the oldest verified living person in the United States upon the death of 114-year-old Emma Verona Johnston on December 1, 2004 until the subsequent verification of Elizabeth Bolden. Both were born in the rural South—where they lived less than 100 miles apart.\n\nBorn of freed slaves, Solomon and Delia Rutherford, she is the oldest resident of the state of Mississippi ever recorded (the previous record was 113 years, 12 days set in 1994). In late April 2005, Wilson moved into a new home funded by donations.\n\nWilson celebrated her 115th birthday in September 2005, at which time she ranked as the third-oldest living person in the world.\n\nWilson died at her New Albany home on February 13, 2006, aged 115 years, 153 days. She was survived by her son, five grandchildren, 46 great-grandchildren, 95 great-great-grandchildren and 38 great-great-great grandchildren.\n\nGeorge Rene Francis (June 6, 1896 – December 27, 2008) was an American supercentenarian and the joint second-oldest living man in the world, together with Englishman Henry Allingham, also born on June 6, 1896, until Francis's death aged 112 years, 204 days. He was also the oldest living man in the United States, following the death of Antonio Pierro on February 8, 2007. Francis was from New Orleans, Louisiana, but since 1949 lived in Sacramento, California, where a local newspaper published a poem that Francis enjoyed reciting to friends and the public throughout his life. He credited his longevity to nature, and enjoyed a rich diet of pork, eggs, milk and lard. He gave up smoking cigars at the age of 75.\n\nFrancis attempted to join the army in World War I but was rejected for service in 1918 as being too short and small (he weighed only about 100 pounds (45.35 kg)). Despite this, he later was a boxer before becoming a barber and then a chauffeur.\n"}
{"id": "3674927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3674927", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: R", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: R\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTEMPORARY CODES:\n\nUNOFFICIAL CODES:\n\nOBSOLETE CODES:\n\n"}
{"id": "4061602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4061602", "title": "List of flags of Norway", "text": "List of flags of Norway\n\nThis is a list of flags of Norway containing images of and information about the official Norwegian flags used.\n\nThe national flag was designed in 1821 by Fredrik Meltzer, a member of parliament (Stortinget). The colours and the \"Nordic cross\" reflect Norway's close ties with Sweden and Denmark.\n\nThe rank flags are also used by the Air Force and Home Guard.\nThe Air Force uses the same rank flags as the Army.\nThe Home Guard uses the same rank flags as the Army.\nThese flags are no longer in use, except the merchant flag of 1821-1844, which was also used from 1899 until the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "53893995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53893995", "title": "List of mammals of Saint Martin", "text": "List of mammals of Saint Martin\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Saint Martin. These are the mammal species in Saint Martin, of which only bats are the native mammals of the island. Apart from bats, many oceanic mammals, exotic mammals species and domesticated species can be found within the island. Two native rodents, Blunt-toothed giant hutia and oryzomyine are known to extinct from the island with the impact of humans, where few oryzomyines can be found around archeological sites.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\nBats comprised 20% of all mammals described in the world and they are the only true-fliers in mammalian stock. Saint Martin is home for 7 bat species.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea which includes whales, dolphins and porpoises, are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life which enable them to survive like fish in the water. They are armored with thick blubber, limbs evolved as fins and also with tail fin.\n\n\nWell over 250 species of carnivorans, they fill up the top ranks of any food web, and helps to control the population of herbivores.\n\n\nThe Artiodactyls are even-toed ungulates comprised about 220 artiodactyl species, including many that are of great economic importance to humans.\n\n\nThe Perissodactyls are odd-toed ungulates comprised only 17 species, including many that are of great economic importance to humans.\n\n\nRodents are the most successful mammals in the world, comprising more than 40% of all described mammal species. They are economically important animals, where most of them are pests and invasive species in human habitations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223503", "title": "List of political parties in Aruba", "text": "List of political parties in Aruba\n\nThis article lists political parties in Aruba. Aruba has a multi-party system, with two or three strong parties and a third party that is electorally successful.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1852884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1852884", "title": "List of pre-Columbian cultures", "text": "List of pre-Columbian cultures\n\nThis list of pre-Columbian cultures includes those civilizations and cultures of the Americas which flourished prior to the European colonization of the Americas.\n\nMany pre-Columbian civilizations established permanent or urban settlements, agriculture, and complex societal hierarchies.\nIn North America, indigenous cultures in the Lower Mississippi Valley during the Middle Archaic period built complexes of multiple mounds, with several in Louisiana dated to 5600–5000 BP (3700 BC–3100 BC). Watson Brake is considered the oldest, multiple mound complex in the Americas, as it has been dated to 3500 BC. It and other Middle Archaic sites were built by pre-ceramic, hunter-gatherer societies. They preceded the better known Poverty Point culture and its elaborate complex by nearly 2,000 years. The Mississippi Valley mound-building tradition extended into the Late Archaic period, longer than what later southeastern mound building dependent on sedentary, agricultural societies.(Russo, 1996:285)\n\nSome of these civilizations had long ceased to function by the time of the first permanent European arrivals (c. late 15th – early 16th centuries), and are known only through archaeological investigations or oral history from nations today. Others were contemporary with this period, and are also known from historical accounts of the time. A few, such as the Olmec, Maya, Mixtec, and Nahua had their own written records. However, most Europeans of the time viewed such texts as heretical and burned most of them. Only a few documents were hidden and thus remain today, leaving modern historians with glimpses of ancient culture and knowledge.\n\nFrom both indigenous American and European accounts and documents, American civilizations at the time of European encounter possessed many impressive attributes, having populous cities, and having developed theories of astronomy and mathematics.\n\nWhere they persist, the societies and cultures which gave rise to these civilizations continue to adapt and evolve; they also uphold various traditions and practices which relate back to these earlier times, even if combined with those more recently adopted.\n\nHuman sacrifice was a religious practice principally characteristic of pre-Columbian Aztec civilization, although other Mesoamerican civilizations like the Maya and the Zapotec practiced it as well. The extent of the practice is debated by modern scholars.\n\n\n\nin alphabetical order:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29954594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29954594", "title": "List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2009", "text": "List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2009\n\nThis is a list of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2009, the first year of his presidency as the 44th President of the United States. Following his inauguration on January 21, 2009, Obama traveled to 22 different states internationally, in addition to many more trips made domestically within the United States.\n\nThis list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Additionally excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President, and to the private home of the Obama family in Kenwood, Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "48550286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48550286", "title": "List of universities in Sint Maarten", "text": "List of universities in Sint Maarten\n\nThis is a list of universities in Sint Maarten.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20363345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20363345", "title": "Log jam", "text": "Log jam\n\nA log jam is an accumulation of large wood (commonly defined as pieces of wood more than in diameter and more than long also commonly called large woody debris) that can span an entire stream or river channel.\n\nHistorically in North America, large \"log rafts\" were common across the continent prior to European settlement. The most famous natural wood raft is the Great Raft on the Red River in Louisiana, which prior to its removal in the 1830s affected between of the main channel. It has been suggested that such extensive log rafts may have been common in Europe in prehistory.\n\nLog jams alter flow hydraulics by diverting flow towards the bed or banks, increasing flow resistance and creating upstream pools, diverting flow onto the floodplain and damming the channel causing water to spill over the structure. These altered channel hydraulics change local patterns of erosion and deposition, which can create greater variety in local geomorphology and thus create provision and variety of habitat for instream living organisms. The formation of a log jam against one bank typically concentrates flow in the wood-free portion of the channel, increasing velocity through this section and promoting scour of the riverbed, the formation of channel-spanning log jams can lead to the formation of an upstream pool, water spilling over the structure generating a \"plunge pool\" immediately downstream.\n\nThe hydraulic and geomorphological effects of log jams are highly dependent on the slope of the river (and thus the potential power of the stream); in steep channels, log jams tend to form channel-spanning steplike structures with an associated downstream scour pool, whereas, in large lowland rivers with low slopes, log jams tend to be partial structures primarily acting to deflect flow with minimal geomorphological change.\n\nLog jams provide important fish habitat. The pools created and sediment deposited by formation of log jams create prime spawning grounds for many species of salmon. These pools also provide refuge for fish during low water levels when other parts of a stream may be nearly dry. Log jams can provide refuge, as velocity shelters, during high-flow periods.\n\nIt has been suggested that log jams are part of trees acting as ecosystem engineers to alter river habitats to promote tree growth. In dynamic braided rivers, such as the Tagliamento River in Italy where the dominant tree species is black poplar, fallen trees form log jams when they are deposited on bars, fine sediment is deposited around these log jams and sprouting seedlings are able to stabilise braid bars and promote the formation of stable islands in the river. These stable islands are then prime areas for establishment of seedlings and further vegetation growth, which in turn can eventually provide more fallen trees to the river and thus form more log jams.\n\nIn large rivers in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, it has been shown there is a lifecycle of tree growth and river migration, with large trees falling into the channel as banks erode, then staying in place and acting as focal points for log jam formation. These log jams act as hard points resisting further erosion and channel migration. The areas of floodplain behind these log jams then become stable enough for more large trees to grow which in turn can potentially be log jam anchor points in the future.\n\n\"Logjam\" or \"log jam\" can be used metaphorically to mean \"deadlock\" or \"impasse.\" It can either be used more literally, to mean a physical impasse, or more metaphorically, to mean an impasse in a process due to differing opinions, legal or technical issues, etc. Here are two example sentences:\n\n"}
{"id": "29750456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29750456", "title": "Luis García Sainz", "text": "Luis García Sainz\n\nLuis García Sáinz (Saragossa, 1894-Saragossa, March 11, 1965) was a pioneer of physical geography in Spain. He was the first professor in Geography en la University of Valencia and secretary at the . His final position was professor at the University of Barcelona.\n\nHe began his academic career studying and practicing as a teacher in Teruel.\n\nIn 1917, he was appointed Teacher of Geography at the Ecole Normale of Palma de Mallorca, which he would later direct.\n\nIn 1924, he received a grant to study Geography in Switzerland, both comparative and didactic.\n\nIn 1925, he stayed at the University of Belgrade to study with Serbian geographer Jovan Cvijić areas of evolution in surface and subsurface ice of the Alps and the regions of the Rhine and central Germany.\n\nHe was secretary of of Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas after the Spanish Civil War. This Institute had an important role in the development of Spanish geography study.\n\nIn 1941, he was appointed the first Professor of Physical Geography of the University of Valencia, and secretary on restart the [Instituto Juan Sebastián Elcano]. He belongs to the German School of Spanish Geographers. His last position was as a professor at the University of Barcelona.\n\nIn memoria there is a State School in Fuentes de Ebro, CEIP Luis García Sáinz.\n\nHe is part of German School geographers group, influenced by German geographers work in Spain and for their educational training in Germany. As geographers attest in «Geography after the Spanish Civil War., and in «Spanish precursors of Physical Geography.\n\nHe was a pioneer in geomorphological research. His writings on the Ebro basin (1927, 1928, 1936 and 1939), areas of erosion, glaciers, storms from the east, the massif of Idubeda, and red soils of Mallorca were most notable.\n\nLuis died in an accident while returning in his car from a court in Madrid on March 11, 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "18694662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18694662", "title": "Malpaís (landform)", "text": "Malpaís (landform)\n\nMalpaís is a term used in the Southwestern United States, Spain, Mexico, and other Spanish-speaking regions for a rough and barren landscape that consists of relict and largely uneroded lava fields exhibiting recognizable lava flows, volcanic cones, and other volcanic landforms. This type of volcanic landscape is extremely rough and difficult to traverse. It is characteristic of an arid environment because in more humid climates, lava fields are quickly destroyed by weathering and erosion. \n\nWhile the term describes many xeric places, it is strongly associated with Spanish-speaking countries and the Southwestern United States, where Spanish settlers named this landform.\n\nThe word 'malpaís' in Spanish translates to \"badland,\" and this describes the area as being extremely rough and difficult to traverse and unusable for crops. Although a malpaís is often another word for the badlands that form by erosion of sedimentary rocks in the same environment, a malpaís is often associated with such types of lava plain terrain as found in a volcanic field. The geology of malpaís terrain is bare to thin layers of soil over lava with sparse vegetation. The lava fields usually consist of lava tube cave systems, sinkholes, pyroclastic deposits from cinder cone volcanoes, and ʻaʻā and pāhoehoe lava flows. The lava tubes can vary from intact caves to partial or completely collapsed passages. The collapsed tubes, sinkholes, and jagged ʻaʻā surfaces are what make malpaís terrain so difficult to navigate and cultivate, thereby earning their name.\n\nEl Malpaís National Monument is an example of this landform in New Mexico. Other examples are the Carrizozo Malpaís and Jornada del Muerto Volcano lava plain, in the Tularosa Basin's Jornada del Muerto Desert. The Malpaís de Güímar is an example in the Spanish Canary Islands.\n\nA loanword from Spanish, \"malpaís\" is in wide use in English in the southwest United States. The literal translation of \"malpaís\" is \"badland.\" Other Spanish terms for badlands are \"\" and \"\".\n"}
{"id": "39641481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39641481", "title": "Mapcode", "text": "Mapcode\n\nThe mapcode system is a spatial reference system (not to be confused with the Denso mapcode system). \nA mapcode is a code consisting of two groups of letters and digits, separated by a dot. It represents a location on the surface of the Earth, within the context of a separately specified country or territory. For example, the entrance to the elevator of the Eiffel Tower in Paris is “France 4J.Q2”. As with addresses, it is often unnecessary to explicitly mention the country.\n\nThe mapcode algorithm defines how a WGS 84 coordinate (a latitude and longitude) can be converted into a mapcode, and vice versa. Mapcodes are supported on automotive navigation systems. Many mapping companies have adopted mapcode.\n\nThe mapcode system was designed specifically as a free, brand-less, international standard for representing any location on the surface of the Earth by a short, easy to recognize and remember “code”, usually consisting of between 4 and 7 letters and digits.\nThe shortness is the key differentiating factor between mapcodes and other location references; more densely populated areas are designated with shorter (4 character) codes.\n\nThe brevity of mapcodes was achieved through a combination of several ideas:\nThe last idea, especially, yield very good results. For example, although every location within the Netherlands can be identified by a 6-letter mapcode, half of the Dutch population can be found in about 40 cities and densely populated areas that together comprise less than 6,000 square kilometers. By reserving 5-letter mapcodes for these areas, half of the population can thus be reached with 5 mapcode letters. Since human dwellings and businesses are usually the more relevant locations in daily human life, this means that the relevant locations in the Netherlands have 5-letter mapcodes more often than 6-letter mapcodes. In fact, a significant number of people lives in the 100 square kilometers of very densely populated city centers of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Eindhoven en Utrecht, which are covered by 4-letter codes. The mapcode system thus defines a population-density-based code division for all (roughly 200) countries on Earth, all (roughly 100) overseas territories, and roughly 240 subdivisions (provinces, states, oblasts etc.). With the exception of Antarctica and the international waters, few localities on the surface of the Earth require a mapcode longer than 7 letters.\n\nNote that mapcodes can in fact be made arbitrarily precise: at the cost of two extra characters, a mapcode is guaranteed to be less than 25 centimeters from the original coordinate. Every character added increases the accuracy further by a factor of 30. \nHoewever, the mapcode documentation states that this defeats the key purpose of the mapcode system: to offer the simplest possible codes appropriate for public, every-day use.\n\nThe mapcode system (not to be confused with the Denso mapcode system, a different spatial reference system) was developed in 2001 by TomTom's Pieter Geelen and Harold Goddijn, soon after the GPS satellite signals were opened up for civilian use. It was decided to donate the mapcode system to the public domain in 2008. The algorithms and data tables are maintained by the Mapcode Foundation, which provides source code and specifications free of charge to any organization that wants to support mapcodes. The mapcode system is the subject of a patent application and a standard filed at the International Organization for Standardization.\n\nThe term \"mapcode\" was also used by Denso in Japan. The international mapcode system operated by the Mapcode Foundation is in no way linked to Denso or based on the Denso system.\n\n"}
{"id": "275972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275972", "title": "Massif", "text": "Massif\n\nIn geology, a massif ( or ) is a section of a planet's crust that is demarcated by faults or flexures. In the movement of the crust, a massif tends to retain its internal structure while being displaced as a whole. The term also refers to a group of mountains formed by such a structure.\n\nIn mountaineering and climbing literature, a massif is frequently used to denote the main mass of an individual mountain. The massif is a smaller structural unit of the crust than a tectonic plate and is considered the fourth largest driving force in geomorphology.\n\nThe word is taken from French (in which the word also means \"massive\"), where it is used to refer to a large mountain mass or compact group of connected mountains forming an independent portion of a range. One of the most notable European examples of a massif is the Massif Central of the Auvergne region of France.\n\nThe Face on Mars is an example of an extraterrestrial massif.\n\nMassifs may also form underwater, as with the Atlantis Massif.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "724309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=724309", "title": "Names of Jerusalem", "text": "Names of Jerusalem\n\nNames of Jerusalem refers to the multiple names by which the city of Jerusalem has been known and the etymology of the word in different languages. According to the Jewish Midrash, \"Jerusalem has 70 names\". Lists have been compiled of 72 different Hebrew names for Jerusalem in Jewish scripture.\n\nToday, Jerusalem is called Yerushalayim () and Al-Quds (). \"Yerushalayim\" is a derivation of a much older name, recorded as early as in the Middle Bronze Age, which has however been repeatedly re-interpreted in folk etymology, notably in Biblical Greek, where the first element of the name came to be associated with (\"hieros\", \"holy\"). The city is also known especially among religious-minded Muslims as Bayt al-Maqdis ().\n\nA city called \"Rušalim\" in the Execration texts of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt (c. 19th century BCE) is sometimes identified as Jerusalem although this has been challenged.\n\nJerusalem is called either ()\nor () in the Amarna letters of Abdi-Heba (1330s BCE). Also in the Amarna letters, it is called Beth-Shalem, the house of Shalem.\n\nThe Sumero-Akkadian name for Jerusalem, \"uru-salim\", is variously etymologised to mean \"foundation of [or: by] the god Shalim\": from Hebrew/Semitic \"yry,\" ‘to found, to lay a cornerstone’, and Shalim, the Canaanite god of the setting sun and the nether world, as well as of health and perfection.\n\n\"Jerusalem\" is the name most commonly used in the Bible, and the name used by most of the Western World. The Biblical Hebrew form is Yerushalaim (), adopted in Biblical Greek as Hierousalēm, \"Ierousalēm\" (), or Hierosolyma, \"Ierosolyma\" (), and in early Christian Bibles as Syriac Ūrišlem () as well as Latin ' or '. In Arabic this name occurs in the form Ūrsālim ().\n\nThe name \"Shalem\", whether as a town or a deity, is derived from the same root as the word \"shalom\", meaning peace, so that the common interpretation of the name is now \"The City of Peace\" or \"Abode of Peace\".\n\nThe ending \"-ayim\" indicates the dual in Hebrew, thus leading to the suggestion that the name refers to the two hills on which the city sits. However, the pronunciation of the last syllable as \"-ayim\" appears to be a late development, which had not yet appeared at the time of the Septuagint. In fact, in the unvocalized Masoretic Text of the Hebrew Bible the \"yod\" that would be required for the \"-ayim\" ending (so that it would be written , as in post-biblical Hebrew, rather than ) is almost always absent. It is only the much later vocalization, with the vowel marks for \"a\" and \"i\" squeezed together between the lamed and the mem, that provides the basis for this reading.\n\nIn Genesis Rabbah 56:10, the name is interpreted as a combination of \"yir'eh\", \"He will see [to it],\" and \"Shalem\", the city of King Melchizedek (based on Genesis 14:18). A similar theory is offered by Philo in his discussion of the term \"God's city.\" Other midrashim say that Jerusalem means \"City of Peace\".\n\nIn Greek, the city is called either \"Ierousalēm\" (Ἰερουσαλήμ) or \"Hierosolyma\" (Ἱεροσόλυμα). The latter exhibits yet another re-etymologization, by association with the word \"hieros\" (, \"holy\"). \nSimilarly the Old Norse form Jorsala exhibits a re-interpretation of the second element as \"-sala\", denoting a hall or temple, common in Old Norse toponyms.\n\nThat the name Salem refers to Jerusalem is evidenced by Psalm 76:2 which uses \"Salem\" (שלם \"šālêm\") as a parallel for \"Zion\", the citadel of Jerusalem. The same identification is made by Josephus and the Aramaic translations of the Bible.\n\nShalem was the Canaanite god of dusk, sunset, and the end of the day, also spelled Shalim. Many scholars believe that his name is preserved in the name of the city Jerusalem. It is believed by some scholars that the name of Jerusalem comes from Uru + Shalem, meaning the foundation of Shalem or founded by Shalem or city of Shalem, and that Shalem was the city god of the place before El Elyon.\n\nMount Zion ( \"Har Tsiyyon\") was originally the name of the hill where the Jebusite fortress stood, but the name was later applied to the Temple Mount just to the north of the fortress (also known as Mount Moriah, possibly also referred to as \"Daughter of Zion\" (i.e., as a protrusion of Mount Zion proper) originally).\n\nStill later (Second Temple era), the name came to be applied to a hill just to the south-west of the walled city. This latter hill is still known as Mount Zion today. From the point of view of the Babylonian exile (6th century BCE), \"Zion\" has come to be used as a synonym of the city of Jerusalem as a whole.\n\n\nAccording to \"Shahnameh\", ancient Iranian used \"Kang Diz Huxt\" کَـنْـگ دِژ هُـوْخْـت or \"Diz Kang Huxt\" دِژ کَـنْـگ هُـوْخْـت to name Jerusalem . \"Kang Diz Huxt\" means \"holy palace\" and was the capital of \"Zahhak\" and also \"Fereydun's\" kingdom.\n\nAelia Capitolina was the Roman name given to Jerusalem in the 2nd century, after the destruction of the Second Temple. The name refers to Hadrian's family, the \"gens Aelia\", and to the hill temple of Jupiter built on the remains of the Temple.\nDuring the later Roman Era, the city was expanded to the area now known as the Old City of Jerusalem. Population increased during this period, peaking at several hundred thousand, numbers only reached again in the modern city, in the 1960s.\n\nFrom this name derive Arabic \"ʼĪlyāʼ\", Tiberian Hebrew \"ʼÊliyyāh Qappîṭôlînāh\", Standard Hebrew \"Eliyya Qappitolina\".\nThe Roman name was loaned into Arabic as ʼĪlyāʼ, early in the Middle Ages, and appears in some Hadith (Bukhari 1:6, 4:191; Muwatta 20:26), like Bayt ul-Maqdis.\n\nJerusalem fell to the Muslim conquest of Palestine in 638.\nThe medieval city corresponded to what is now known as the Old City (expanded in the 2nd century as Roman \"Aelia Capitolina\"). Population at the time of the Muslim conquest was about 200,000, but from about the 10th century it declined, to less than half that number by the time of the Christian conquest in the 11th century, and with the re-conquest by the Khwarezmi Turks was further decimated to about 2,000 people (moderately recovering to some 8,000 under Ottoman rule by the 19th century).\n\nThe modern Arabic name of Jerusalem is اَلْـقُـدْس al-Quds, and its first recorded use can be traced to the 9th century CE, two hundred years after the Muslim conquest of the city. Prior to the use of this name, the names used for Jerusalem were إِيْـلْـيَـاء Iliya (from the Latin name Aelia) and بَـيْـت الْـمَـقْـدِس (Bayt al-Maqdis) or بَـيْـت الْـمُـقَـدَّس (Bayt al-Muqaddas).\n\nAl-Quds is the most common Arabic name for Jerusalem and is used by many cultures influenced by Islam. The name may have been a direct translation of the Hebrew nickname for the city, \"Ir \"HaKodesh\"\" (עיר הקודש \"The Holy City\" or \"City of the Holiness\"). The variant اَلْـقُـدْس الـشَّـرِيْـف al-Quds aš-Šarīf (\"Al-Quds the Noble\") has also been used, notably by the Ottomans, who also used the Persian influenced Kuds-i Şerîf.*\n\nBayt al-Maqdis or Bayt al-Muqaddas is a less commonly used Arabic name for Jerusalem though it appeared more commonly in early Islamic sources. It is the base from which nisbas (names based on the origin of the person named) are formed - hence the famous medieval geographer called both al-Maqdisi and al-Muqaddasi (born 946.) This name is of a semantic extension from the Hadiths used in reference to the Temple in Jerusalem, called \"Beit HaMikdash\" (בית המקדש \"The Holy Temple\" or \"Temple of the Sanctified Place\") in Hebrew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2215129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215129", "title": "Nkosi's Haven", "text": "Nkosi's Haven\n\nNkosi's Haven is an NGO in the Johannesburg, South Africa area that offers residential, holistic care and support for mothers and their children whose lives have been impacted by HIV/AIDS. Nkosi's Haven also provides support for orphans, HIV/AIDS affected or not. It aims to improve the productivity of their residents through providing access to medical care, therapy, education and skill building workshops. The goal is to empower residents while providing a safe, dignified home in hopes that all mothers and children are able to become responsible and contributing members of society.\n\nNkosi's Haven was named after Nkosi Johnson, an AIDS activist who dedicated his life to ensuring that mothers and their children are kept together under the belief that no mother should have to leave her child due to HIV diagnosis. It is a recognized non-governmental organization that is largely funded by international donors and governmental organizations. Funding is allocated to assist accommodations, which include housing, food, water, medication, and hospice care. It also assists with education costs such as school fees, uniforms, and other expenditures. Residents share household tasks among themselves, including tasks such as cooking, cleaning, laundry, and childcare.\nAt the time of inception, it was the first and only care centre in South Africa that provided residential care for mothers living with HIV/AIDS and their children.\n\n“Through all of the work we do, we ensure that our residents learn how to live with AIDS, not die from it.” Nkosi's Haven has built a home in which residents can live free from prejudice and discrimination against HIV/AIDS and children can grow into self-sufficient and responsible members of society.\n\nNkosi's Haven was named after Nkosi Johnson, a young AIDS activist who died on International Children's Day in 2001. Born Xolani Nkosi, Nkosi was infected with HIV through mother-to-child transmission. Nkosi and his mother were admitted to an AIDS care centre in Johannesburg, where they met Gail Johnson, a volunteer worker.\n\nDue to financial restraints, the care centre that Nkosi and his mother were living in closed down. Nkosi's mother's health was deteriorating rapidly and she was unable to keep Nkosi due to her health conditions and financial dependency. She also feared that the community would find out that both herself and Nkosi were HIV positive and exile them. As a result, Gail Johnson took Nkosi into her care, changing his name to Nkosi Johnson, and became his legal foster mother.\n\nGail Johnson attempted to enroll Nkosi into school in Johannesburg and was faced with backlash as soon as Nkosi's HIV status was made public. In 1997, Johnson took the case to court, winning her case and forcing the South African educational system to revise their admittance policies discriminating against children with AIDS.\n\nAfter Nkosi's experience with discrimination due to his health status and the forced separation between him and his mother, Nkosi's dream was to create an HIV/AIDS care centre in which children and their mothers could live freely without prejudice or discrimination because of their health status. With the help of his foster mother, Gail, Nkosi opened Nkosi's Haven in 1999, providing hundreds of mothers and their children with a safe space and communal environment.\n\nNkosi's journey made him the national figure in the fight against AIDS. In July 2000, Nkosi wrote and presented a speech at the 13th International Aids Conference, held in Durban, which was televised worldwide. At 11 years old, he spoke to delegates about his experience growing up with HIV. His fight with HIV birthed his dream to raise awareness and erase the stigma of HIV/AIDS through communal, supportive environments and care centres. Nkosi is most famously known for his quote,\n“We are normal. We have hands. We have feet. We can walk, we can talk, we have needs just like everyone else- don't be afraid of us- we are all the same!\"\n\nA year before his death, Nkosi suffered through severe brain damage and viral infections due to AIDS. He was bedridden, emaciated, suffering from seizures and unable to eat solid foods. After battling the disease for 12 years, Nkosi Johnson died in his sleep on 1 June 2001.\n\nNkosi was given a hero's burial memorial service in Johannesburg with thousands of attendees paying their respects to the late activist.\n\nAt the time of his death, Nkosi Johnson was South Africa's longest surviving child born with HIV/AIDS. In 2005, he was awarded with the International Children's Peace Prize for his fight against HIV/AIDS and activist efforts. After his death, Nelson Mandela released a statement, recognizing Nkosi as an \"icon of the struggle for life\" who fought fearlessly against HIV/AIDS. He urged everyone to give their support during this time, acknowledging Nkosi as an ambassador for South Africa and its people, especially those living with HIV.\n\nNkosi Johnson's legacy lives on through the work of Nkosi's Haven.\n\nSouth Africa has had high rates of HIV/AIDS diagnoses for years, with approximately 6.19 million accounted individuals living with HIV/AIDS in 2015. Within the age group of adults aged 15–49 years old, 16.6% of that cohort is HIV positive. HIV/AIDS related deaths have been declining as of recent years, with 2005 being the year with the highest number of deaths in South Africa. Thereafter, antiretroviral treatment was administered and easily accessible, changing the patterns of HIV/AIDS and extending the lifespan of many South Africans who would have otherwise died at an earlier age.\n\nHIV/AIDS related illnesses are still high, with an increase of 4.02 million people living with HIV in South Africa from 2002 to 2015. Statistics South Africa approximates that every one out of five South African females in their reproductive ages are living with HIV.\n\nUNAIDS reports that approximately 2.1 million children in South Africa are orphans due to HIV/AIDS related illnesses, with 180,000 deaths occurring in the year of 2015. Women over the age of 15 account for 4 million people living with HIV, and approximately 240,000 children under the age of 14 have been affected by HIV.\n\nEvidence has shown that the HIV/AIDS crisis has had a significant impact on South African family life. Responsibility for children growing up in South African society has been increasingly separate from biological parenthood due to the lack of parental care available. Under many circumstances, children often care for their own families due to the circumstances created by the HIV/AIDS epidemic.\n\nIn 1999, Nkosi and Gail opened their first Nkosi's Haven location in Berea, Johannesburg. Despite being close to the city centre, selling properties became increasingly difficult in Berea, with the neighbouring area of Hillbrow beside, as it became an area that was frequented with street children and the unemployed. The 1980s was an era of high crime rates in downtown Johannesburg, which neighboured Hillbrow and Berea. After the apartheid ended in the 1990s, many gangs, along with residents from neighbouring townships, moved into the area making it unsafe. Thus, the property was offered to Gail Johnson, rent free for 5 years.\n\nThe house was located on 23 Mitchell street and consisted of four bedrooms, one bathroom upstairs and one downstairs, a lounge, a room used as a dormitory, and a courtyard. Renovations and repairs were needed, in addition to furniture and basic house necessities. To raise funds for the completion of the house, Gail, a former public relations consultant, held a “kitchen tea” in which a wish list was created and publicized in the media and to those who were potential contributors. At the tea, Gail explained the reasons behind the creation of Nkosi's Haven. She explained that Nkosi's Haven was to offer a kibbutz style of living in which residents would take turns at cooking, cleaning, caring for the children, and helping care for each other as needed. Gail also told the guests that they already reached capacity for residence at the house. At the time, the house fit nine mothers and their children with presumed costs starting at R28,000 monthly. The results of the kitchen tea were successful and Gail managed to fundraise R45,000 worth of furniture and equipment, free electrical services, along with appliances valued at R30,000 for the nursery and dormitory.\n\nAfter 3 years in operation, Nkosi's Haven saw need for a second home as the Berea residence was rapidly expanding with mothers and children living with HIV/AIDS and orphans. In 2002, a separate plot of land was purchased south of Johannesburg. Upon development, both residences catered to over 160 residents and their children providing meals, medication, education, daily necessities for residents living with or without HIV/AIDS, and care for orphans.\n\nDue to financial restraints, in 2012, the NGO sold its property in Berea and moved all occupants to Nkosi's Haven Village in Alan Manor, South of Johannesburg. Costs for operating the Berea house were as much as R150,000 to R180,000 monthly, and because all occupants could be accommodated at the village, consolidating all residents meant that no one was left without a home or unemployed. Given that Nkosi's Haven village had bigger plans in motion, the shift would focus on different things such as training opportunities for residents at the newly purchased farm and other facilities at the Nkosi's Haven Village. These opportunities were unavailable in Berea due to space and financial constraints. Gail reasoned this by stating, “We are not the Titanic. We are consolidating... it makes sense to consolidate and save money.”\n\nNkosi's Haven grew so rapidly that in 2002, a second 2.5 acre plot of land was purchased in the Alan Manor neighbourhood, south of Johannesburg to begin the development of Nkosi's Haven Village. This was made possible through a grant from the Gauteng Department of Housing, Social Housing and Special Needs. Although the project received backlash from neighbouring communities, key sponsors made the initiative possible and enabled Nkosi's Haven to host up to 180 residents at a time.\n\nNkosi's Haven Village in Alan Manor consists of 17 cottages in which residents reside in, a sickbay, a library, a baby day care, a therapy block, a kitchen, a bakery, and a leisure block. There are also workshops and classrooms such as a computer room and an arts room for additional education and skill building. Administrative offices are located near the sickbay. All residents share household tasks and duties that help with the functioning of the village, providing a sense of leadership and empowerment to residents through skill-building activities.\n\nIn 2010, Nkosi's Haven received a bakery donation from the South African Whole Grain Bread Project (SAGWBP). In addition to the onsite bakery container donation, SAGWBP donated enough bread mix for six months. White and brown loaves are still produced for resident consumption and are marketed to other organizations in the community at a competitive price. The residents of Nkosi's Haven Village handle oversight of operations in the bakery. While providing skill-building opportunities, those who assist can also earn a stipend for their labour.\n\nIn 2009, Nkosi's Haven opened their new, industrial sized kitchen through generous donations from sponsors. Employed resident mothers cook to feed the large number of residents, serving hundreds of meals daily. Three well-balanced meals are provided to every resident mother, all children and volunteers.\n\nA leisure room was built at Nkosi's Haven Village to further meet the requirements to become a Child Care Centre in South Africa. Dance lessons take place in the large space on a weekly basis. The room is painted with bright colours, equipped with colourful furniture, bean bag chairs, a television, and foosball tables.\n\nNkosi's Haven Library provides a space for resident children to do their homework, leisurely reading, art sessions and workshops. Workshops include HIV/AIDS awareness sessions and life skills for women. Through funding, the Haven continues to expand its book collection in hopes to educate and provide relevant resources for residents.\n\nA recent project development was the implementation of bibliotherapy at the library in 2010. The bibliotherapy program used books to assist the children and young teens with coping with social, emotional and physical issues. The program identified the children's needs and used a variety of programs to help eradicate the isolation of people living with HIV/AIDS through education, self-awareness, skill development, and recreation. Some sessions included storytelling, reading aloud, and \"The Wall of Happiness Sessions\" in which participants openly discussed what made them happy with the facilitator. The program was made available to all residents at Nkosi's Haven, including orphans and those who were free of HIV/AIDS in order to increase overall awareness. Results of the program showed success among residents, with 92% of young participants demonstrating increased knowledge and understanding about HIV/AIDS related issues, 78% demonstrating an increase in comfort and decrease in fear around HIV/AIDS related issues, and 91% of adults demonstrating an improvement in self-esteem and optimistic attitudes.\n\nA music and arts centre has been built onsite for resident use. This centre includes a keyboard and drums and is also a space that is used by the choir. Due to limited space and resources, Nkosi's Haven relies on the help of volunteers to teach music and arts lessons onsite. Programs are run year-round for mothers and their children.\n\nAn ongoing workshop is artsINSIDEOUT's annual two-week art camp that runs at Nkosi's Haven. With the help of ASTEP (Artists Striving to End Poverty), a unique art program featuring successful and competitive professionals from all areas of art including students and graduates from Juilliard, ASTEP volunteer artists use storytelling, singing, acting, dancing and visual arts to inspire the youth at Nkosi's Haven to build community, consciousness and self-awareness. To date, artsINSIDEOUT has organized trips to Nkosi's Haven for 6 years and has provided funding for year-round programming, including workshops and cultural programs. Local artists are invited to join the diverse artsINSIDEOUT team to enhance cultural programs available to Nkosi's Haven.\n\nIn 2006, Nkosi's Haven Village completed the Sickbay, consisting of a 9-bed unit, qualified nursing staff, and family physicians to help care for HIV positive residents. Many residents are sick due to AIDS related illnesses and are being administered quality treatment and ARV's as needed.\n\nAll children at Nkosi's Haven Village receive various forms of therapy, including remedial, play, occupational and speech. The therapy block was completed in December 2009 and employs two full-time therapists onsite to assist residents living with HIV/AIDS. Therapists also assist with helping resident mothers disclose their HIV status to their children.\n\nNkosi's Haven Village has one classroom and two workshops that act as a site for homework and afterschool programs. These areas offer skill-building workshops on a regular basis for residents to learn various skills such as knitting, pottery, resume writing, and more.\n\nWith the help of BT South Africa, an ICT infrastructure company, Nkosi's Haven opened a communications centre in 2010. The room comes equipped with computer monitors valued at R100,000 which allows the youth at Nkosi's Haven to videoconference and chat with their mentors and friends worldwide. Infinite Family, an American organization that enables children living with HIV/AIDS to connect with mentors worldwide, has provided more than 50 youth at Nkosi's Haven with mentors.\n\nThis room is also used to assist resident youth with their homework.\n\nNkosi's Haven 4Life Farm, located 50 km south of Johannesburg, has been in operation since 2008. The farm is 12 acres and currently provides crops for meals at Nkosi's Haven Village. Foundation 4Life has helped support Nkosi's Haven for years and made contributions that helped begin the production of the farm.\n\nWithin the next 5 years of full operation, Nkosi's Haven 4LIFE farm aims to implement a self-sustaining style of living in which mothers living with HIV/AIDS and their children from a neighbouring township and the surrounding area will assist in growing organic food to serve themselves, Nkosi's Haven's residents, and the local markets and supermarkets. The goal is to produce crops for sale in supermarket chains in South Africa once the farm is sustainable and crops are of good standard. A number of new cottages will be built on the farm to accommodate more mothers and their children in need of Nkosi's Haven's assistance.\n\nNkosi's Haven has begun construction on the premises to begin early interventions of child development, skill transfer and various forms of therapy. Given that children in South Africa are held back from attending school if they are undergoing forms of therapy, an onsite preschool bypasses those restrictions and enables youth to develop their skills while receiving therapy. Nkosi's Haven pays R1000 monthly for each toddler to attend preschool outside of Nkosi's Haven, thus, an onsite preschool will save financial resources and assist Nkosi's Haven in becoming self-sufficient and sustainable. Nkosi's Haven plans to hire certified teachers in addition to training resident mothers to assist at the preschool, also building their skills and capacity.\n\n"}
{"id": "826680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826680", "title": "Northeast Italy", "text": "Northeast Italy\n\nNortheast Italy ( or just ) is one of the five official statistical regions of Italy used by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a first level NUTS region and a European Parliament constituency. Northeast encompasses four of the country's 20 regions:\n\n\nCulturally and historically, Emilia-Romagna is part of Northwest Italy, but is included in Northeast Italy for statistical reasons.\n\nItalian is the main language. Other languages include Venetian, widely spoken in Veneto and along the coast to Trieste and Istria, as well as in the towns of Pordenone and Gorizia in Friuli, and in most of Trentino, but only recognised by the Veneto region; Friulian, spoken in most of Friuli and nationally recognized, and Ladin, spoken by a few thousand people in the Dolomites. Other languages are German, the primary language of South Tyrol, where Italian is spoken by about two thirds of the inhabitants, and Slovene, recognized by Italy and spoken on the border of Italy and Istria, where the main language today is Croatian but Italian is recognized as a minority language.\n\nThe terms Tre Venezie or \"Triveneto \"(literally \"Triple Veneto\"), refer to the three regions of Veneto (before 1947 Venezia Euganea, united to Friuli) Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol (once Venezia Tridentina) and Friuli-Venezia Giulia.\n\nVenetia, a region which indicated the old land provinces of the Venetian Republic from river Adda to river Isonzo, and is sometimes still used today to indicate this territory together with Trentino and Trieste.\n\nVenetia et Histria, an old region of Italy at the time of Roman Empire, refers to Veneto, Trentino, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, East Lombardy and Istria; it was named after the people of Veneti, who inhabited that region, and who are still largely the main ethnic group of the Italian area (other main ethnic groups include Friulani in the east, mostly in Udine province; Ladins in the Dolomites are between Veneto and Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol; Germans in South Tyrol; and Slovene minorities on the border with Slovenia and in the city of Trieste); while after 1947 Venetian/Italian people are just a minority in Slovenian and Croatian Istria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40798061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40798061", "title": "Octavie Coudreau", "text": "Octavie Coudreau\n\nMarie Octavie Coudreau (\"née\" Renard; 1867–1938) was a French explorer from Anais, Charente, and author of several books on French Guiana and northern Brazil. In 1899, the Brazilian states of Pará and Amazonas hired Coudreau to explore and chart the Amazon region. Her husband was the French explorer and geographer Henri Coudreau.\n\nAt the time of the \"contesté franco-brésilien\" boundary dispute between colonial France and Brazil, Coudreau's husband Henri worked in the service of governors of the states of Brazil, mapping the Amazon's tributaries and identifying possible resources for farmers and foresters. On behalf of the State of Pará, Henri Coudreau was charged with exploring the Trombetas River, shortly after Octavie married him.\n\nTheir first expedition in 1899 ended tragically, as detailed in the book \"Voyage au Trombetas\" begun by Henri Coudreau. It describes their voyage up the Trombetas tributary of the north bank of the Amazon. He was already sick and exhausted by the years spent in what he called the \"green hell\". Suffering from malarial fever, he died in her arms on 10 November 1899. Aided by his traveling companions, she made a coffin from the planks of the boat and prepared a burial on a promontory overlooking Lake Tapagem.\n\nAfter Henri Coudreau's death, she continued the exploration work begun by her husband for seven years. She later wrote the final chapters of the book, following the repatriation of his remains to Angoulême in France.\n\nFrom 1899 to 1906, she worked as an official explorer for the French government, a role not normally open to women at the time. Enduring the same levels of hardship that had eventually killed her husband, she made pioneering contributions to the knowledge of the Amazon tropical area.\n\nShe died in Sonnac.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53306011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53306011", "title": "Padina Plateau", "text": "Padina Plateau\n\nThe Padina Plateau is high-altitude region in the Bucegi Mountains situated at 1500m above sea level. Among the plateau's attractions is the Bolboci Lake. Also on the plateau is the Padina National Mountain Rescue Centre. Nearby is the Babele area of rock formation and the Omu Peak (2505m), the 11th highest point in Romania.\n"}
{"id": "20716697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20716697", "title": "Panama Plate", "text": "Panama Plate\n\nThe Panama Plate is a small tectonic plate sandwiched between the Cocos Plate and Nazca Plate to the south and the Caribbean Plate to the north. Most of its borders are convergent boundaries including a subduction zone to the west. It consists, for the most part, of the nations of Panama and Costa Rica.\n"}
{"id": "606333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606333", "title": "Provinces of Vanuatu", "text": "Provinces of Vanuatu\n\nVanuatu has been divided into six provinces since 1994. The names in English of all provinces are derived from the initial letters of their constituent islands:\n\nThe provinces are in turn divided into municipalities (usually consisting of an individual island) headed by a council and a mayor elected from among the members of the council.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1994 it was divided into eleven island regions:\n\nDuring the Condominium era, specifically from 1968 to 1984 the group was divided into four administrative districts:\n"}
{"id": "6942481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6942481", "title": "Saint Vincent Passage", "text": "Saint Vincent Passage\n\nSaint Vincent Passage is a strait in the Caribbean, at . It separates the Saint Lucia and Saint Vincent.\n"}
{"id": "19570423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570423", "title": "Sound ranger", "text": "Sound ranger\n\nSound rangers are military specialists who locate enemy artillery using sound. They use equipment such as super-sensitive microphones to pick up the sounds of firing. By using a combination of surveying techniques and trigonometry they then calculate the locations of enemy batteries. These results are then transmitted by radio to their own artillery, who used it for targeting.\n\nSound rangers were used extensively in the Second World War. Many of the officers were former surveyors, estate agents and geographers because of their surveying experience in civilian life. They would be located near the front line but not always among the firing line for their safety.\n\n"}
{"id": "46596475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46596475", "title": "Space Situational Awareness Programme", "text": "Space Situational Awareness Programme\n\nThe Space Situational Awareness (SSA) Programme is the European Space Agency's initiative designed to support Europe's independent space access and utilization through the timely and accurate information delivery regarding the space environment, and particularly hazards to both in orbit and ground infrastructure. The SSA programme is split into three main segments:\n\nThe SSA programme is being implemented as an optional ESA programme with financial participation by 14 Member States. The programme started in 2009 and its mandate was extended until 2019. The second phase of the programme received €46.5 million for the 2013-2016 period.\n\nThe main objective of the Space Weather Segment (SWE) is to detect and forecast of space weather events, avoid adverse effect on European space assets and ground-based infrastructure. To achieve that, the segment will focus on delivery of real-time space weather information, forecasts and warnings, supported by a data archive, applications and services. Assets currently available for the segment consist of multiple ground-based and spaceborne sensors monitoring the Sun, solar wind and Earth's magnetosphere, ionosphere and thermosphere. These include the PROBA2 satellite and the Kanzelhoehe Solar Observatory. The segment is jointly coordinated by the SWE Data Centre located at the ESTRACK Redu Station and the SSA Space Weather Coordination Centre (SSCC), both in Belgium.\n\nThe near-Earth object segment aims to deliver monitoring and warning of potential Earth impactors and tracking of newly discovered objects. The segment's current assets consist of a mixture of professional and amateur telescopes, including the OGS Telescope, that are supported by tracking databases. The plans are to create a fully integrated system supporting alerts for civil authorities. The segment is operated by the SSA NEO Coordination Centre located at the ESA Centre for Earth Observation, Italy.\n\nThe SST segment's primary goal is the detection, cataloguing and orbit prediction of objects orbiting the Earth. It is part of an effort to avoid collisions between orbiting satellites and debris, provide safe reentries, detect on-orbit explosions, assist missions at launch, deployment and end-of-life and overall reduce cost of space access. The segment currently relies on existing European radar and optical systems. Some of its assets are existing radio and optical telescopes, with now serving a secondary role for tracking space debris.\n\nThe radar-based SST assets are split into two categories: surveillance and tracking systems. SSA SST radar systems include:\n\nSSA SST optical surveillance and tracking assets include:\n\nAs part of the SSA Programme new, dedicated surveillance radar supported by optical sensors systems will be developed. The segment is coordinated by the Space Surveillance Test & Validation (SSTC) Centre located at the ESAC in Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286111", "title": "Straits of Johor", "text": "Straits of Johor\n\nThe Johore Strait (also known as the Tebrau Strait, Straits of Johor, Selat Johor, Selat Tebrau, and Tebrau Reach) is an international strait in Southeast Asia, between Singapore and Peninsular Malaysia.\n\nThe strait separates the Malaysian state of Johor on the mainland Malay Peninsula to the north, from Singapore and its islands on the south. It connects to the Strait of Malacca on the west, and the Singapore Strait on the southeast.\n\nThe mouth and delta of the Johor River is on its northeast side in Malaysia.\n\nThere are currently two bridges crossing the strait. The Johor–Singapore Causeway, known simply as \"The Causeway\", links Johor Bahru and Woodlands in Singapore. The Malaysia–Singapore Second Link bridge is further west over the strait, links Iskandar Puteri in Malaysia and Tuas in Singapore.\n\nIn 2003, Malaysia wanted to build a bridge across the strait to replace the existing causeway, but negotiations with Singapore were not successful. The main reasons cited for the change were:\n\nIn August 2003, Malaysia announced that it was going ahead with a plan to build a gently sloping, curved bridge that would join up with Singapore's half of the existing causeway. The plans included a swing bridge for the railway line. However, plans to build the bridge have been called off as of 2006.\n\nMajor tributaries which empty into the Strait of Johore include:\n\nIn the Malay language, \"Sungai\" is the word for river.\n\nPollution along the Johore Strait is notable.\n\nThe area is also a source of environmental contention between Malaysia and Singapore, due to land reclamation projects on both sides of the Causeway. There have been suggestions that the ongoing land reclamation projects may impact the maritime boundary, shipping lanes, and water ecology of the Malaysian side. Environmental Impact Assessments are requested before any reclamation is carried out such as the Forest City project.\n\nReclamation projects may also endanger the habitat and food source of dugongs, which are native to the strait.\n\nThe Johore Strait is the location of two Victoria Cross deeds. The award was for Lieutenant Ian Edward Fraser and Acting Leading Seaman James Joseph Magennis for the sinking of the 9,850-tonne Japanese cruiser \"Takao\" on 31 July.\nA well known tourist attraction of the Strait of Johore's is Lido Beach, located on the Malaysian side in Johor Bahru. Here, visitors can walk or cycle along the 2 km stretch of the beach. There are numerous restaurants and food stalls.\n"}
{"id": "18413531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18413531", "title": "Sustainability", "text": "Sustainability\n\nSustainability is the process of maintaining change in a balanced fashion, in which the exploitation of resources, the direction of investments, the orientation of technological development and institutional change are all in harmony and enhance both current and future potential to meet human needs and aspirations. For many in the field, sustainability is defined through the following interconnected domains or pillars: environment, economic and social. Sub-domains of sustainable development have been considered also: cultural, technological and political. While sustainable development may be the organizing principle for sustainability for some, for others, the two terms are paradoxical (i.e. development is inherently unsustainable). Sustainable development is the development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Brundtland Report for the World Commission on Environment and Development (1987) introduced the term of sustainable development.\n\nSustainability can also be defined as a socio-ecological process characterized by the pursuit of a common ideal. \nAn ideal is by definition unattainable in a given time and space. However, by persistently and dynamically approaching it, the process results in a sustainable system.\n\nHealthy ecosystems and environments are necessary to the survival of humans and other organisms. Ways of reducing negative human impact are environmentally-friendly chemical engineering, environmental resources management and environmental protection. Information is gained from green computing, green chemistry, earth science, environmental science and conservation biology. Ecological economics studies the fields of academic research that aim to address human economies and natural ecosystems.\n\nMoving towards sustainability is also a social challenge that entails international and national law, urban planning and transport, supply chain management, local and individual lifestyles and ethical consumerism. Ways of living more sustainably can take many forms from reorganizing living conditions (e.g., ecovillages, eco-municipalities and sustainable cities), reappraising economic sectors (permaculture, green building, sustainable agriculture), or work practices (sustainable architecture), using science to develop new technologies (green technologies, renewable energy and sustainable fission and fusion power), or designing systems in a flexible and reversible manner, and adjusting individual lifestyles that conserve natural resources.\n\n\"The term 'sustainability' should be viewed as humanity's target goal of human-ecosystem equilibrium (homeostasis), while 'sustainable development' refers to the holistic approach and temporal processes that lead us to the end point of sustainability.\" (305) Despite the increased popularity of the use of the term \"sustainability\", the possibility that human societies will achieve environmental sustainability has been, and continues to be, questioned—in light of environmental degradation, climate change, overconsumption, population growth and societies' pursuit of unlimited economic growth in a closed system.\n\nThe name sustainability is derived from the Latin \"sustinere\" (\"tenere\", to hold; \"sub\", under). \"Sustain\" can mean \"maintain\", \"support\", or \"endure\". Since the 1980s \"sustainability\" has been used more in the sense of human sustainability on planet Earth and this has resulted in the most widely quoted definition of sustainability as a part of the concept \"sustainable development\", that of the Brundtland Commission of the United Nations on March 20, 1987: \"sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs\"..\n\nThe 2005 World Summit on Social Development identified sustainable development goals, such as economic development, social development and environmental protection. This view has been expressed as an illustration using three overlapping ellipses indicating that the three pillars of sustainability are not mutually exclusive and can be mutually reinforcing. In fact, the three pillars are interdependent, and in the long run none can exist without the others. The three pillars have served as a common ground for numerous sustainability standards and certification systems in recent years, in particular in the food industry. Standards which today explicitly refer to the triple bottom line include Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade and UTZ Certified. Some sustainability experts and practitioners have illustrated four pillars of sustainability, or a quadruple bottom line. One such pillar is future generations, which emphasizes the long-term thinking associated with sustainability. There is also an opinion that considers resource use and financial sustainability as two additional pillars of sustainability.\n\nSustainable development consists of balancing local and global efforts to meet basic human needs without destroying or degrading the natural environment. The question then becomes how to represent the relationship between those needs and the environment.\n\nA study from 2005 pointed out that environmental justice is as important as sustainable development. Ecological economist Herman Daly asked, \"what use is a sawmill without a forest?\" From this perspective, the economy is a subsystem of human society, which is itself a subsystem of the biosphere, and a gain in one sector is a loss from another. This perspective led to the nested circles figure of 'economics' inside 'society' inside the 'environment'.\n\nThe simple definition that sustainability is something that improves \"the quality of human life while living within the carrying capacity of supporting eco-systems\", though vague, conveys the idea of sustainability having quantifiable limits. But sustainability is also a call to action, a task in progress or \"journey\" and therefore a political process, so some definitions set out common goals and values. The Earth Charter speaks of \"a sustainable global society founded on respect for nature, universal human rights, economic justice, and a culture of peace\". This suggested a more complex figure of sustainability, which included the importance of the domain of 'politics'.\n\nMore than that, sustainability implies responsible and proactive decision-making and innovation that minimizes negative impact and maintains balance between ecological resilience, economic prosperity, political justice and cultural vibrancy to ensure a desirable planet for all species now and in the future. Specific types of sustainability include, sustainable agriculture, sustainable architecture or ecological economics. Understanding sustainable development is important but without clear targets an unfocused term like \"liberty\" or \"justice\". It has also been described as a \"dialogue of values that challenge the sociology of development\".\n\nWhile the United Nations Millennium Declaration identified principles and treaties on sustainable development, including economic development, social development and environmental protection it continued using three domains: economics, environment and social sustainability. More recently, using a systematic domain model that responds to the debates over the last decade, the Circles of Sustainability approach distinguished four domains of economic, ecological, political and cultural sustainability; this in accord with the United Nations, Unesco, Agenda 21, and in particular the Agenda 21 for culture which specifies culture as the fourth domain of sustainable development. The model is now being used by organizations such as the United Nations Cities Programme and Metropolis. In the case of Metropolis, this approach does not mean adding a fourth domain of culture to the dominant triple bottom line figure of the economy, environment and the social. Rather, it involves treating all four domains—economy, ecology, politics and culture—as social (including economics) and distinguishing between ecology (as the intersection of the human and natural worlds) and environment as that which goes far beyond what we as humans can ever know.\n\nAnother model suggests humans attempt to achieve all of their needs and aspirations via seven modalities: economy, community, occupational groups, government, environment, culture, and physiology. From the global to the individual human scale, each of the seven modalities can be viewed across seven hierarchical levels. Human sustainability can be achieved by attaining sustainability in all levels of the seven modalities.\n\nIntegral elements of sustainability are research and innovation activities. A telling example is the European environmental research and innovation policy. It aims at defining and implementing a transformative agenda to greening the economy and the society as a whole so to make them sustainable. Research and innovation in Europe are financially supported by the programme Horizon 2020, which is also open to participation worldwide.\nEncouraging good farming practices ensures farmers fully benefit from the environment and at the same time conserving it for future generations. Additionally, instigating innovative and sustainable travel and transportation solutions must play a vital role in this process.\n\nResiliency in ecology is the capacity of an ecosystem to absorb disturbance and still retain its basic structure and viability. Resilience-thinking evolved from the need to manage interactions between human-constructed systems and natural ecosystems in a sustainable way despite the fact that to policymakers a definition remains elusive. Resilience-thinking addresses how much planetary ecological systems can withstand assault from human disturbances and still deliver the service's current and future generations need from them. It is also concerned with commitment from geopolitical policymakers to promote and manage essential planetary ecological resources in order to promote resilience and achieve sustainability of these essential resources for benefit of future generations of life? The resiliency of an ecosystem, and thereby, its sustainability, can be reasonably measured at junctures or events where the combination of naturally occurring regenerative forces (solar energy, water, soil, atmosphere, vegetation, and biomass) interact with the energy released into the ecosystem from disturbances.\n\nA practical view of sustainability is closed systems that maintain processes of productivity indefinitely by replacing resources used by actions of people with resources of equal or greater value by those same people without degrading or endangering natural biotic systems. In this way, sustainability can be concretely measured in human projects if there is a transparent accounting of the resources put back into the ecosystem to replace those displaced. In nature, the accounting occurs naturally through a process of adaptation as an ecosystem returns to viability from an external disturbance. The adaptation is a multi-stage process that begins with the disturbance event (earthquake, volcanic eruption, hurricane, tornado, flood, or thunderstorm), followed by absorption, utilization, or deflection of the energy or energies that the external forces created.\n\nIn analysing systems such as urban and national parks, dams, farms and gardens, theme parks, open-pit mines, water catchments, one way to look at the relationship between sustainability and resiliency is to view the former with a long-term vision and resiliency as the capacity of human engineers to respond to immediate environmental events.\n\nThe history of sustainability traces human-dominated ecological systems from the earliest civilizations to the present day. This history is characterized by the increased regional success of a particular society, followed by crises that were either resolved, producing sustainability, or not, leading to decline.\n\nIn early human history, the use of fire and desire for specific foods may have altered the natural composition of plant and animal communities. Between 8,000 and 10,000 years ago, agrarian communities emerged which depended largely on their environment and the creation of a \"structure of permanence.\"\n\nThe Western industrial revolution of the 18th to 19th centuries tapped into the vast growth potential of the energy in fossil fuels. Coal was used to power ever more efficient engines and later to generate electricity. Modern sanitation systems and advances in medicine protected large populations from disease. In the mid-20th century, a gathering environmental movement pointed out that there were environmental costs associated with the many material benefits that were now being enjoyed. In the late 20th century, environmental problems became global in scale. The 1973 and 1979 energy crises demonstrated the extent to which the global community had become dependent on non-renewable energy resources.\n\nIn the 21st century, there is increasing global awareness of the threat posed by the human greenhouse effect, produced largely by forest clearing and the burning of fossil fuels.\n\nThe philosophical and analytic framework of sustainability draws on and connects with many different disciplines and fields; in recent years an area that has come to be called sustainability science has emerged.\n\nSustainability is studied and managed over many scales (levels or frames of reference) of time and space and in many contexts of environmental, social and economic organization. The focus ranges from the total carrying capacity (sustainability) of planet Earth to the sustainability of economic sectors, ecosystems, countries, municipalities, neighbourhoods, home gardens, individual lives, individual goods and services, occupations, lifestyles, behaviour patterns and so on. In short, it can entail the full compass of biological and human activity or any part of it. As Daniel Botkin, author and environmentalist, has stated: \"We see a landscape that is always in flux, changing over many scales of time and space.\"\n\nThe sheer size and complexity of the planetary ecosystem has proved problematic for the design of practical measures to reach global sustainability. To shed light on the big picture, explorer and sustainability campaigner Jason Lewis has drawn parallels to other, more tangible closed systems. For example, he likens human existence on Earth — isolated as the planet is in space, whereby people cannot be evacuated to relieve population pressure and resources cannot be imported to prevent accelerated depletion of resources — to life at sea on a small boat isolated by water. In both cases, he argues, exercising the precautionary principle is a key factor in survival.\n\nA major driver of human impact on Earth systems is the destruction of biophysical resources, and especially, the Earth's ecosystems. The environmental impact of a community or of humankind as a whole depends both on population and impact per person, which in turn depends in complex ways on what resources are being used, whether or not those resources are renewable, and the scale of the human activity relative to the carrying capacity of the ecosystems involved. Careful resource management can be applied at many scales, from economic sectors like agriculture, manufacturing and industry, to work organizations, the consumption patterns of households and individuals and to the resource demands of individual goods and services.\n\nOne of the initial attempts to express human impact mathematically was developed in the 1970s and is called the I PAT formula. This formulation attempts to explain human consumption in terms of three components: population numbers, levels of consumption (which it terms \"affluence\", although the usage is different), and impact per unit of resource use (which is termed \"technology\", because this impact depends on the technology used). The equation is expressed:\n\nIn recent years, concepts based on (re-)cycling resources are increasingly gaining importance. The most prominent among these concepts might be the Circular Economy, with its comprehensive support by the Chinese and the European Union. There is also a broad range of similar concepts or schools of thought, including cradle-to-cradle laws of ecology, looped and performance economy, regenerative design, industrial ecology, biomimicry, and the blue economy. These concepts seem intuitively to be more sustainable than the current linear economic system. The reduction of resource inputs into and waste and emission leakage out of the system reduces resource depletion and environmental pollution. However, these simple assumptions are not sufficient to deal with the involved systemic complexity and disregards potential trade-offs. For example, the social dimension of sustainability seems to be only marginally addressed in many publications on the Circular Economy, and there are cases that require different or additional strategies, like purchasing new, more energy efficient equipment. A review of a team of researchers from Cambridge and TU Delft identified eight different relationship types between sustainability and the circular economy, namely a (1) conditional relation, a (2) strong conditional relation, a (3) necessary but not sufficient conditional relation, a (4) beneficial relationship a (structured and unstructured) (5) subset relation, a (6) degree relation, a (7) cost-benefit/trade-off relation, and a (8) selective relation.\n\nSustainability measurement is the quantitative basis for the informed management of sustainability. The metrics used for the measurement of sustainability (involving the sustainability of environmental, social and economic domains, both individually and in various combinations) are evolving: they include indicators, benchmarks, audits, sustainability standards and certification systems like Fairtrade and Organic, indexes and accounting, as well as assessment, appraisal and other reporting systems. They are applied over a wide range of spatial and temporal scales.\n\nSome of the best known and most widely used sustainability measures include corporate sustainability reporting, Triple Bottom Line accounting, World Sustainability Society, Circles of Sustainability, and estimates of the quality of sustainability governance for individual countries using the Environmental Sustainability Index and Environmental Performance Index.\n\nCompanies such as Lieef (www.Lieef.com) have started reporting ESG metrics on behalf of companies, and investment funds, in an effort to increase transparency through patenting pending technology that measures emissions from a gross to net basis.\n\nAccording to the most recent (July 2015) revision of the official United Nations World Population Prospects, the world population is projected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030, up from the current 7.3 billion (July 2015), to exceed 9 billion people by 2050, and to reach 11.2 billion by the year 2100. Most of the increase will be in developing countries whose population is projected to rise from 5.6 billion in 2009 to 7.9 billion in 2050. This increase will be distributed among the population aged 15–59 (1.2 billion) and 60 or over (1.1 billion) because the number of children under age 15 in developing countries is predicted to decrease. In contrast, the population of the more developed regions is expected to undergo only slight increase from 1.23 billion to 1.28 billion, and this would have declined to 1.15 billion but for a projected net migration from developing to developed countries, which is expected to average 2.4 million persons annually from 2009 to 2050. Long-term estimates in 2004 of global population suggest a peak at around 2070 of nine to ten billion people, and then a slow decrease to 8.4 billion by 2100.\n\nEmerging economies like those of China and India aspire to the living standards of the Western world as does the non-industrialized world in general. It is the combination of population increase in the developing world and unsustainable consumption levels in the developed world that poses a stark challenge to sustainability.\n\nAt the global scale, scientific data now indicates that humans are living beyond the carrying capacity of planet Earth and that this cannot continue indefinitely. This scientific evidence comes from many sources but is presented in detail in the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment and the planetary boundaries framework. An early detailed examination of global limits was published in the 1972 book \"Limits to Growth\", which has prompted follow-up commentary and analysis. A 2012 review in \"Nature\" by 22 international researchers expressed concerns that the Earth may be \"approaching a state shift\" in its biosphere.\n\nThe Ecological footprint measures human consumption in terms of the biologically productive land needed to provide the resources, and absorb the wastes of the average global citizen. In 2008 it required 2.7 global hectares per person, 30% more than the natural biological capacity of 2.1 global hectares (assuming no provision for other organisms). The resulting ecological deficit must be met from unsustainable \"extra\" sources and these are obtained in three ways: embedded in the goods and services of world trade; taken from the past (e.g. fossil fuels); or borrowed from the future as unsustainable resource usage (e.g. by over exploiting forests and fisheries).\n\nThe figure (right) examines sustainability at the scale of individual countries by contrasting their Ecological Footprint with their UN Human Development Index (a measure of standard of living). The graph shows what is necessary for countries to maintain an acceptable standard of living for their citizens while, at the same time, maintaining sustainable resource use. The general trend is for higher standards of living to become less sustainable. As always, population growth has a marked influence on levels of consumption and the efficiency of resource use. The sustainability goal is to raise the global standard of living without increasing the use of resources beyond globally sustainable levels; that is, to not exceed \"one planet\" consumption. Information generated by reports at the national, regional and city scales confirm the global trend towards societies that are becoming less sustainable over time.\n\nRomanian American economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a progenitor in economics and a paradigm founder of ecological economics, has argued that the carrying capacity of Earth — that is, Earth's capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels — is bound to decrease sometime in the future as Earth's finite stock of mineral resources is presently being extracted and put to use. Leading ecological economist and steady-state theorist Herman Daly, a student of Georgescu-Roegen, has propounded the same argument.\n\nAt the enterprise scale, carrying capacity now also plays a critical role in making it possible to measure and report the sustainability performance of individual organizations. This is most clearly demonstrated through use of Context-Based Sustainability (CBS) tools, methods and metrics, including the MultiCapital Scorecard, which have been in development since 2005. Contrary to many other mainstream approaches to measuring the sustainability performance of organizations – which tend to be more incrementalist in form – CBS is explicitly tied to social, environmental and economic limits and thresholds in the world. Thus, rather than simply measure and report changes in relative terms from one period to another, CBS makes it possible to compare the impacts of organizations to organization-specific norms, standards or thresholds for what they (the impacts) would have to be in order to be empirically sustainable (i.e., which if generalized to a larger population would not fail to maintain the sufficiency of vital resources for human or non-human well-being).\n\nAt a fundamental level, energy flow and biogeochemical cycling set an upper limit on the number and mass of organisms in any ecosystem. Human impacts on the Earth are demonstrated in a general way through detrimental changes in the global biogeochemical cycles of chemicals that are critical to life, most notably those of water, oxygen, carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus.\n\nThe \"Millennium Ecosystem Assessment\" is an international synthesis by over 1000 of the world's leading biological scientists that analyzes the state of the Earth's ecosystems and provides summaries and guidelines for decision-makers. It concludes that human activity is having a significant and escalating impact on the biodiversity of world ecosystems, reducing both their resilience and biocapacity. The report refers to natural systems as humanity's \"life-support system\", providing essential \"ecosystem services\". The assessment measures 24 ecosystem services concluding that only four have shown improvement over the last 50 years, 15 are in serious decline, and five are in a precarious condition.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the current harmonized set of seventeen future international development targets.\n\nThe Official Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted on 25 September 2015 has 92 paragraphs, with the main paragraph (51) outlining the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and its associated 169 targets. This included the following seventeen goals:\n\n\nAs of August 2015, there were 169 proposed targets for these goals and 304 proposed indicators to show compliance.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) replace the eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which expired at the end of 2015. The MDGs were established in 2000 following the Millennium Summit of the United Nations. Adopted by the 189 United Nations member states at the time and more than twenty international organizations, these goals were advanced to help achieve the following sustainable development standards by 2015.\n\n\nAccording to the data that member countries represented to the United Nations, Cuba was the only country in the world in 2006 that met the World Wide Fund for Nature's definition of sustainable development, with an ecological footprint of less than 1.8 hectares per capita, 1.5, and a Human Development Index of over 0.8, 0.855.\n\nHealthy ecosystems provide vital goods and services to humans and other organisms. There are two major ways of reducing negative human impact and enhancing ecosystem services and the first of these is environmental management. This direct approach is based largely on information gained from earth science, environmental science and conservation biology.\nHowever, this is management at the end of a long series of indirect causal factors that are initiated by human consumption, so a second approach is through demand management of human resource use.\n\nManagement of human consumption of resources is an indirect approach based largely on information gained from economics. Herman Daly has suggested three broad criteria for ecological sustainability: renewable resources should provide a sustainable yield (the rate of harvest should not exceed the rate of regeneration); for non-renewable resources there should be equivalent development of renewable substitutes; waste generation should not exceed the assimilative capacity of the environment.\n\nAt the global scale and in the broadest sense environmental management involves the oceans, freshwater systems, land and atmosphere, but following the sustainability principle of scale it can be equally applied to any ecosystem from a tropical rainforest to a home garden.\n\nAt a March 2009 meeting of the Copenhagen Climate Council, 2,500 climate experts from 80 countries issued a keynote statement that there is now \"no excuse\" for failing to act on global warming and that without strong carbon reduction \"abrupt or irreversible\" shifts in climate may occur that \"will be very difficult for contemporary societies to cope with\". Management of the global atmosphere now involves assessment of all aspects of the carbon cycle to identify opportunities to address human-induced climate change and this has become a major focus of scientific research because of the potential catastrophic effects on biodiversity and human communities (see Energy below).\n\nOther human impacts on the atmosphere include the air pollution in cities, the pollutants including toxic chemicals like nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, volatile organic compounds and airborne particulate matter that produce photochemical smog and acid rain, and the chlorofluorocarbons that degrade the ozone layer. Anthropogenic particulates such as sulfate aerosols in the atmosphere reduce the direct irradiance and reflectance (albedo) of the Earth's surface. Known as global dimming, the decrease is estimated to have been about 4% between 1960 and 1990 although the trend has subsequently reversed. Global dimming may have disturbed the global water cycle by reducing evaporation and rainfall in some areas. It also creates a cooling effect and this may have partially masked the effect of greenhouse gases on global warming.\n\nWater covers 71% of the Earth's surface. Of this, 97.5% is the salty water of the oceans and only 2.5% freshwater, most of which is locked up in the Antarctic ice sheet. The remaining freshwater is found in glaciers, lakes, rivers, wetlands, the soil, aquifers and atmosphere. Due to the water cycle, fresh water supply is continually replenished by precipitation, however there is still a limited amount necessitating management of this resource. Awareness of the global importance of preserving water for ecosystem services has only recently emerged as, during the 20th century, more than half the world's wetlands have been lost along with their valuable environmental services. Increasing urbanization pollutes clean water supplies and much of the world still does not have access to clean, safe water. Greater emphasis is now being placed on the improved management of blue (harvestable) and green (soil water available for plant use) water, and this applies at all scales of water management.\n\nOcean circulation patterns have a strong influence on climate and weather and, in turn, the food supply of both humans and other organisms. Scientists have warned of the possibility, under the influence of climate change, of a sudden alteration in circulation patterns of ocean currents that could drastically alter the climate in some regions of the globe. Ten per cent of the world's population—about 600 million people—live in low-lying areas vulnerable to sea level rise.\n\nLoss of biodiversity stems largely from the habitat loss and fragmentation produced by the human appropriation of land for development, forestry and agriculture as natural capital is progressively converted to man-made capital. Land use change is fundamental to the operations of the biosphere because alterations in the relative proportions of land dedicated to urbanisation, agriculture, forest, woodland, grassland and pasture have a marked effect on the global water, carbon and nitrogen biogeochemical cycles and this can impact negatively on both natural and human systems. At the local human scale, major sustainability benefits accrue from sustainable parks and gardens and green cities.\n\nSince the Neolithic Revolution about 47% of the world's forests have been lost to human use. Present-day forests occupy about a quarter of the world's ice-free land with about half of these occurring in the tropics. In temperate and boreal regions forest area is gradually increasing (with the exception of Siberia), but deforestation in the tropics is of major concern.\n\nFood is essential to life. Feeding more than seven billion human bodies takes a heavy toll on the Earth's resources. This begins with the appropriation of about 38% of the Earth's land surface and about 20% of its net primary productivity. Added to this are the resource-hungry activities of industrial agribusiness—everything from the crop need for irrigation water, synthetic fertilizers and pesticides to the resource costs of food packaging, transport (now a major part of global trade) and retail. Environmental problems associated with industrial agriculture and agribusiness are now being addressed through such movements as sustainable agriculture, organic farming and more sustainable business practices.\n\nThe underlying driver of direct human impacts on the environment is human consumption. This impact is reduced by not only consuming less but by also making the full cycle of production, use and disposal more sustainable. Consumption of goods and services can be analysed and managed at all scales through the chain of consumption, starting with the effects of individual lifestyle choices and spending patterns, through to the resource demands of specific goods and services, the impacts of economic sectors, through national economies to the global economy. Analysis of consumption patterns relates resource use to the environmental, social and economic impacts at the scale or context under investigation. The ideas of embodied resource use (the total resources needed to produce a product or service), resource intensity, and resource productivity are important tools for understanding the impacts of consumption. Key resource categories relating to human needs are food, energy, materials and water.\n\nIn 2010, the International Resource Panel, hosted by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), published the first global scientific assessment on the impacts of consumption and production and identified priority actions for developed and developing countries. The study found that the most critical impacts are related to ecosystem health, human health and resource depletion. From a production perspective, it found that fossil-fuel combustion processes, agriculture and fisheries have the most important impacts. Meanwhile, from a final consumption perspective, it found that household consumption related to mobility, shelter, food and energy-using products cause the majority of life-cycle impacts of consumption.\n\nThe Sun's energy, stored by plants (primary producers) during photosynthesis, passes through the food chain to other organisms to ultimately power all living processes. Since the industrial revolution the concentrated energy of the Sun stored in fossilized plants as fossil fuels has been a major driver of technology which, in turn, has been the source of both economic and political power. In 2007 climate scientists of the IPCC concluded that there was at least a 90% probability that atmospheric increase in CO was human-induced, mostly as a result of fossil fuel emissions but, to a lesser extent from changes in land use. Stabilizing the world's climate will require high-income countries to reduce their emissions by 60–90% over 2006 levels by 2050 which should hold CO levels at 450–650 ppm from current levels of about 380 ppm. Above this level, temperatures could rise by more than 2 °C to produce \"catastrophic\" climate change. Reduction of current CO levels must be achieved against a background of global population increase and developing countries aspiring to energy-intensive high consumption Western lifestyles.\n\nReducing greenhouse emissions, is being tackled at all scales, ranging from tracking the passage of carbon through the carbon cycle to the commercialization of renewable energy, developing less carbon-hungry technology and transport systems and attempts by individuals to lead carbon neutral lifestyles by monitoring the fossil fuel use embodied in all the goods and services they use. Engineering of emerging technologies such as carbon-neutral fuel and energy storage systems such as power to gas, compressed air energy storage, and pumped-storage hydroelectricity are necessary to store power from transient renewable energy sources including emerging renewables such as airborne wind turbines.\n\nWater security and food security are inextricably linked. In the decade 1951–60 human water withdrawals were four times greater than the previous decade. This rapid increase resulted from scientific and technological developments impacting through the economy—especially the increase in irrigated land, growth in industrial and power sectors, and intensive dam construction on all continents. This altered the water cycle of rivers and lakes, affected their water quality and had a significant impact on the global water cycle. Currently towards 35% of human water use is unsustainable, drawing on diminishing aquifers and reducing the flows of major rivers: this percentage is likely to increase if climate change impacts become more severe, populations increase, aquifers become progressively depleted and supplies become polluted and unsanitary. From 1961 to 2001 water demand doubled—agricultural use increased by 75%, industrial use by more than 200%, and domestic use more than 400%. In the 1990s it was estimated that humans were using 40–50% of the globally available freshwater in the approximate proportion of 70% for agriculture, 22% for industry, and 8% for domestic purposes with total use progressively increasing.\n\nWater efficiency is being improved on a global scale by increased demand management, improved infrastructure, improved water productivity of agriculture, minimising the water intensity (embodied water) of goods and services, addressing shortages in the non-industrialized world, concentrating food production in areas of high productivity, and planning for climate change, such as through flexible system design. A promising direction towards sustainable development is to design systems that are flexible and reversible. At the local level, people are becoming more self-sufficient by harvesting rainwater and reducing use of mains water.\n\nThe American Public Health Association (APHA) defines a \"sustainable food system\" as \"one that provides healthy food to meet current food needs while maintaining healthy ecosystems that can also provide food for generations to come with minimal negative impact to the environment. A sustainable food system also encourages local production and distribution infrastructures and makes nutritious food available, accessible, and affordable to all. Further, it is humane and just, protecting farmers and other workers, consumers, and communities.\" Concerns about the environmental impacts of agribusiness and the stark contrast between the obesity problems of the Western world and the poverty and food insecurity of the developing world have generated a strong movement towards healthy, sustainable eating as a major component of overall ethical consumerism. The environmental effects of different dietary patterns depend on many factors, including the proportion of animal and plant foods consumed and the method of food production. The World Health Organization has published a \"Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health\" report which was endorsed by the May 2004 World Health Assembly. It recommends the Mediterranean diet which is associated with health and longevity and is low in meat, rich in fruits and vegetables, low in added sugar and limited salt, and low in saturated fatty acids; the traditional source of fat in the Mediterranean is olive oil, rich in monounsaturated fat. The healthy rice-based Japanese diet is also high in carbohydrates and low in fat. Both diets are low in meat and saturated fats and high in legumes and other vegetables; they are associated with a low incidence of ailments and low environmental impact.\n\nAt the global level the environmental impact of agribusiness is being addressed through sustainable agriculture and organic farming. At the local level there are various movements working towards local food production, more productive use of urban wastelands and domestic gardens including permaculture, urban horticulture, local food, slow food, sustainable gardening, and organic gardening.\n\nSustainable seafood is seafood from either fished or farmed sources that can maintain or increase production in the future without jeopardizing the ecosystems from which it was acquired. The sustainable seafood movement has gained momentum as more people become aware about both overfishing and environmentally destructive fishing methods.\n\nAs global population and affluence has increased, so has the use of various materials increased in volume, diversity and distance transported. Included here are raw materials, minerals, synthetic chemicals (including hazardous substances), manufactured products, food, living organisms and waste. By 2050, humanity could consume an estimated 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels and biomass per year (three times its current amount) unless the economic growth rate is decoupled from the rate of natural resource consumption. Developed countries' citizens consume an average of 16 tons of those four key resources per capita, ranging up to 40 or more tons per person in some developed countries with resource consumption levels far beyond what is likely sustainable.\n\nSustainable use of materials has targeted the idea of dematerialization, converting the linear path of materials (extraction, use, disposal in landfill) to a circular material flow that reuses materials as much as possible, much like the cycling and reuse of waste in nature. This approach is supported by product stewardship and the increasing use of material flow analysis at all levels, especially individual countries and the global economy. The use of sustainable biomaterials that come from renewable sources and that can be recycled is preferred to the use on non-renewables from a life cycle standpoint.\n\nSynthetic chemical production has escalated following the stimulus it received during the second World War. Chemical production includes everything from herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers to domestic chemicals and hazardous substances. Apart from the build-up of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere, chemicals of particular concern include: heavy metals, nuclear waste, chlorofluorocarbons, persistent organic pollutants and all harmful chemicals capable of bioaccumulation. Although most synthetic chemicals are harmless there needs to be rigorous testing of new chemicals, in all countries, for adverse environmental and health effects. International legislation has been established to deal with the global distribution and management of dangerous goods. The effects of some chemical agents needed long-term measurements and a lot of legal battles to realize their danger to human health. The classification of the toxic carcinogenic agents is handle by the International Agency for Research on Cancer.\n\nEvery economic activity produces material that can be classified as waste. To reduce waste, industry, business and government are now mimicking nature by turning the waste produced by industrial metabolism into resource. Dematerialization is being encouraged through the ideas of industrial ecology, ecodesign and ecolabelling. In addition to the well-established \"reduce, reuse and recycle\", shoppers are using their purchasing power for ethical consumerism.\n\nThe European Union is expected to table by the end of 2015 an ambitious Circular Economy package which is expected to include concrete legislative proposals on waste management, ecodesign and limits on land fills.\n\nOn one account, sustainability \"concerns the specification of a set of actions to be taken by present persons that will not diminish the prospects of future persons to enjoy levels of consumption, wealth, utility, or welfare comparable to those enjoyed by present persons\". Sustainability interfaces with economics through the social and ecological consequences of economic activity. Sustainability economics represents: \"... a broad interpretation of ecological economics where environmental and ecological variables and issues are basic but part of a multidimensional perspective. Social, cultural, health-related and monetary/financial aspects have to be integrated into the analysis.\" However, the concept of sustainability is much broader than the concepts of sustained yield of welfare, resources, or profit margins. At present, the average per capita consumption of people in the developing world is sustainable but population numbers are increasing and individuals are aspiring to high-consumption Western lifestyles. The developed world population is only increasing slightly but consumption levels are unsustainable. The challenge for sustainability is to curb and manage Western consumption while raising the standard of living of the developing world without increasing its resource use and environmental impact. This must be done by using strategies and technology that break the link between, on the one hand, economic growth and on the other, environmental damage and resource depletion.\n\nA recent UNEP report proposes a green economy defined as one that \"improves human well-being and social equity, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcities\": it \"does not favor one political perspective over another but works to minimize excessive depletion of natural capital\". The report makes three key findings: \"that greening not only generates increases in wealth, in particular a gain in ecological commons or natural capital, but also (over a period of six years) produces a higher rate of GDP growth\"; that there is \"an inextricable link between poverty eradication and better maintenance and conservation of the ecological commons, arising from the benefit flows from natural capital that are received directly by the poor\"; \"in the transition to a green economy, new jobs are created, which in time exceed the losses in \"brown economy\" jobs. However, there is a period of job losses in transition, which requires investment in re-skilling and re-educating the workforce\".\n\nSeveral key areas have been targeted for economic analysis and reform: the environmental effects of unconstrained economic growth; the consequences of nature being treated as an economic externality; and the possibility of an economics that takes greater account of the social and environmental consequences of market behavior.\n\nHistorically there has been a close correlation between economic growth and environmental degradation: as communities grow, so the environment declines. This trend is clearly demonstrated on graphs of human population numbers, economic growth, and environmental indicators. Unsustainable economic growth has been starkly compared to the malignant growth of a cancer because it eats away at the Earth's ecosystem services which are its life-support system. There is concern that, unless resource use is checked, modern global civilization will follow the path of ancient civilizations that collapsed through overexploitation of their resource base. While conventional economics is concerned largely with economic growth and the efficient allocation of resources, ecological economics has the explicit goal of sustainable scale (rather than continual growth), fair distribution and efficient allocation, in that order. The World Business Council for Sustainable Development states that \"business cannot succeed in societies that fail\".\n\nIn economic and environmental fields, the term decoupling is becoming increasingly used in the context of economic production and environmental quality. When used in this way, it refers to the ability of an economy to grow without incurring corresponding increases in environmental pressure. Ecological economics includes the study of societal metabolism, the throughput of resources that enter and exit the economic system in relation to environmental quality. An economy that is able to sustain GDP growth without having a negative impact on the environment is said to be decoupled. Exactly how, if, or to what extent this can be achieved is a subject of much debate. In 2011 the International Resource Panel, hosted by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), warned that by 2050 the human race could be devouring 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels and biomass per year—three times its current rate of consumption—unless nations can make serious attempts at decoupling. The report noted that citizens of developed countries consume an average of 16 tons of those four key resources per capita per annum (ranging up to 40 or more tons per person in some developed countries). By comparison, the average person in India today consumes four tons per year. Sustainability studies analyse ways to reduce resource intensity (the amount of resource (e.g. water, energy, or materials) needed for the production, consumption and disposal of a unit of good or service) whether this be achieved from improved economic management, product design, or new technology.\n\nThere are conflicting views whether improvements in technological efficiency and innovation will enable a complete decoupling of economic growth from environmental degradation. On the one hand, it has been claimed repeatedly by efficiency experts that resource use intensity (i.e., energy and materials use per unit GDP) could in principle be reduced by at least four or five-fold, thereby allowing for continued economic growth without increasing resource depletion and associated pollution. On the other hand, an extensive historical analysis of technological efficiency improvements has conclusively shown that improvements in the efficiency of the use of energy and materials were almost always outpaced by economic growth, in large part because of the rebound effect (conservation) or Jevons Paradox resulting in a net increase in resource use and associated pollution. Furthermore, there are inherent thermodynamic (i.e., second law of thermodynamics) and practical limits to all efficiency improvements. For example, there are certain minimum unavoidable material requirements for growing food, and there are limits to making automobiles, houses, furniture, and other products lighter and thinner without the risk of losing their necessary functions. Since it is both theoretically and practically impossible to increase resource use efficiencies indefinitely, it is equally impossible to have continued and infinite economic growth without a concomitant increase in resource depletion and environmental pollution, i.e., economic growth and resource depletion can be decoupled to some degree over the short run but not the long run. Consequently, long-term sustainability requires the transition to a steady state economy in which total GDP remains more or less constant, as has been advocated for decades by Herman Daly and others in the ecological economics community.\n\nA different proposed solution to partially decouple economic growth from environmental degradation is the \"restore\" approach. This approach views \"restore\" as a fourth component to the common reduce, reuse, recycle motto. Participants in such efforts are encouraged to voluntarily donate towards nature conservation a small fraction of the financial savings they experience through a more frugal use of resources. These financial savings would normally lead to rebound effects, but a theoretical analysis suggests that donating even a small fraction of the experienced savings can potentially more than eliminate rebound effects.\n\nThe economic importance of nature is indicated by the use of the expression ecosystem services to highlight the market relevance of an increasingly scarce natural world that can no longer be regarded as both unlimited and free. In general, as a commodity or service becomes more scarce the price increases and this acts as a restraint that encourages frugality, technical innovation and alternative products. However, this only applies when the product or service falls within the market system. As ecosystem services are generally treated as economic externalities they are unpriced and therefore overused and degraded, a situation sometimes referred to as the Tragedy of the Commons.\n\nOne approach to this dilemma has been the attempt to \"internalize\" these \"externalities\" by using market strategies like ecotaxes and incentives, tradeable permits for carbon, and the encouragement of payment for ecosystem services. Community currencies associated with Local Exchange Trading Systems (LETS), a gift economy and Time Banking have also been promoted as a way of supporting local economies and the environment. Green economics is another market-based attempt to address issues of equity and the environment. The global recession and a range of associated government policies are likely to bring the biggest annual fall in the world's carbon dioxide emissions in 40 years.\n\nTreating the environment as an externality may generate short-term profit at the expense of sustainability. Sustainable business practices, on the other hand, integrate ecological concerns with social and economic ones (i.e., the triple bottom line). Growth that depletes ecosystem services is sometimes termed \"uneconomic growth\" as it leads to a decline in quality of life. Minimizing such growth can provide opportunities for local businesses. For example, industrial waste can be treated as an \"economic resource in the wrong place\". The benefits of waste reduction include savings from disposal costs, fewer environmental penalties, and reduced liability insurance. This may lead to increased market share due to an improved public image. Energy efficiency can also increase profits by reducing costs.\n\nThe idea of sustainability as a business opportunity has led to the formation of organizations such as the Sustainability Consortium of the Society for Organizational Learning, the Sustainable Business Institute, and the World Council for Sustainable Development. The expansion of sustainable business opportunities can contribute to job creation through the introduction of green-collar workers. Research focusing on progressive corporate leaders who have integrated sustainability into commercial strategy has yielded a leadership competency model for sustainability, and led to emergence of the concept of \"embedded sustainability\"—defined by its authors Chris Laszlo and Nadya Zhexembayeva as \"incorporation of environmental, health, and social value into the core business with no trade-off in price or quality—in other words, with no social or green premium\". Laszlo and Zhexembayeva's research showed that embedded sustainability offers at least seven distinct opportunities for business value creation: a) better risk-management, b) increased efficiency through reduced waste and resource use, c) better product differentiation, d) new market entrances, e) enhanced brand and reputation, f) greater opportunity to influence industry standards, and g) greater opportunity for radical innovation. Nadya Zhexembayeva's 2014 research further suggested that innovation driven by resource depletion can result in fundamental advantages for company products and services, as well as the company strategy as a whole, when right principles of innovation are applied.\n\nOne school of thought, often labeled ecosocialism or ecological Marxism, asserts that the capitalist economic system is fundamentally incompatible with the ecological and social requirements of sustainability. This theory rests on the premises that:\n\nThus, according to this analysis:\n\n\nBy this logic, market-based solutions to ecological crises (ecological economics, environmental economics, green economy) are rejected as technical tweaks that do not confront capitalism's structural failures. \"Low-risk\" technology/science-based solutions such as solar power, sustainable agriculture, and increases in energy efficiency are seen as necessary but insufficient. \"High-risk\" technological solutions such as nuclear power and climate engineering are entirely rejected. Attempts made by businesses to \"greenwash\" their practices are regarded as false advertising, and it is pointed out that implementation of renewable technology (such as Walmart's proposition to supply their electricity with solar power) has the effect opposite of reductions in resource consumption, viz. further economic growth. Sustainable business models and the triple bottom line are viewed as morally praiseworthy but ignorant to the tendency in capitalism for the distribution of wealth to become increasingly unequal and socially unstable/unsustainable. Ecosocialists claim that the general unwillingness of capitalists to tolerate—and capitalist governments to implement—constraints on maximum profit (such as ecotaxes or preservation and conservation measures) renders environmental reforms incapable of facilitating large-scale change: \"History teaches us that although capitalism has at times responded to environmental movements ... at a certain point, at which the system's underlying accumulation drive is affected, its resistance to environmental demands stiffens.\" They also note that, up until the event of total ecological collapse, destruction caused by natural disasters generally causes an increase in economic growth and accumulation; thus, capitalists have no foreseeable motivation to reduce the probability of disasters (i.e. convert to sustainable/ecological production).\n\nEcosocialists advocate for the revolutionary succession of capitalism by ecosocialism—an egalitarian economic/political/social structure designed to harmonize human society with non-human ecology and to fulfill human needs—as the only sufficient solution to the present-day ecological crisis, and hence the only path towards sustainability. Sustainability is viewed not as a domain exclusive to scientists, environmental activists, and business leaders but as a holistic project that must involve the whole of humanity redefining its place in Nature: \"What every environmentalist needs to know ... is that capitalism is not the solution but the problem, and that if humanity is going to survive this crisis, it will do so because it has exercised its capacity for human freedom, through social struggle, in order to create a whole new world—in coevolution with the planet.\"\n\nSustainability issues are generally expressed in scientific and environmental terms, as well as in ethical terms of stewardship, but implementing change is a social challenge that entails, among other things, international and national law, urban planning and transport, local and individual lifestyles and ethical consumerism. \"The relationship between human rights and human development, corporate power and environmental justice, global poverty and citizen action, suggest that responsible global citizenship is an inescapable element of what may at first glance seem to be simply matters of personal consumer and moral choice.\"\n\nSocial disruptions like war, crime and corruption divert resources from areas of greatest human need, damage the capacity of societies to plan for the future, and generally threaten human well-being and the environment. Broad-based strategies for more sustainable social systems include: improved education and the political empowerment of women, especially in developing countries; greater regard for social justice, notably equity between rich and poor both within and between countries; and intergenerational equity. Depletion of natural resources including fresh water increases the likelihood of \"resource wars\". This aspect of sustainability has been referred to as environmental security and creates a clear need for global environmental agreements to manage resources such as aquifers and rivers which span political boundaries, and to protect shared global systems including oceans and the atmosphere.\n\nA major hurdle to achieve sustainability is the alleviation of poverty. It has been widely acknowledged that poverty is one source of environmental degradation. Such acknowledgment has been made by the Brundtland Commission report Our Common Future and the Millennium Development Goals. There is a growing realization in national governments and multilateral institutions that it is impossible to separate economic development issues from environment issues: according to the Brundtland report, \"poverty is a major cause and effect of global environmental problems. It is therefore futile to attempt to deal with environmental problems without a broader perspective that encompasses the factors underlying world poverty and international inequality.\" Individuals living in poverty tend to rely heavily on their local ecosystem as a source for basic needs (such as nutrition and medicine) and general well-being. As population growth continues to increase, increasing pressure is being placed on the local ecosystem to provide these basic essentials. According to the UN Population Fund, high fertility and poverty have been strongly correlated, and the world's poorest countries also have the highest fertility and population growth rates. The word sustainability is also used widely by western country development agencies and international charities to focus their poverty alleviation efforts in ways that can be sustained by the local populace and its environment. For example, teaching water treatment to the poor by boiling their water with charcoal, would not generally be considered a sustainable strategy, whereas using PET solar water disinfection would be. Also, sustainable best practices can involve the recycling of materials, such as the use of recycled plastics for lumber where deforestation has devastated a country's timber base. Another example of sustainable practices in poverty alleviation is the use of exported recycled materials from developed to developing countries, such as Bridges to Prosperity's use of wire rope from shipping container gantry cranes to act as the structural wire rope for footbridges that cross rivers in poor rural areas in Asia and Africa.\n\nAccording to Murray Bookchin, the idea that humans must dominate nature is common in hierarchical societies. Bookchin contends that capitalism and market relationships, if unchecked, have the capacity to reduce the planet to a mere resource to be exploited. Nature is thus treated as a commodity: \"The plundering of the human spirit by the market place is paralleled by the plundering of the earth by capital.\" Social ecology, founded by Bookchin, is based on the conviction that nearly all of humanity's present ecological problems originate in, indeed are mere symptoms of, dysfunctional social arrangements. Whereas most authors proceed as if our ecological problems implementing recommendations which stem from physical, biological, economic etc., studies, Bookchin's claim is that these problems can only be resolved by understanding the underlying social processes and intervening in those processes by applying the concepts and methods of the social sciences.\n\nA pure capitalist approach has also been criticized in Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change to mitigation the effects of global warming in this excerpt:\n\nIn regards of the United States of America, The Government and the Economy has had a long lasting impact on the environment, but in a problematic way. Policy issues regarding the environment has shown that the country regards the protection of the environment as a \"second hand issue.\" One causation from this is a certain dilemma called \"collective action problem\" or collective action dilemmas.\" These occur when individuals, firms, or governments would be better off if they cooperated in the pursuit of a common goal, but, for one reason or another, one or more of those involved choose a less optimal course of action. Matthew Potoski and Aseem Prakash have made a model establishing 4 cells that are explaining each benefit for the government or the economic process. For the government, one cost might be the loss of public confidence and trust, while a firm might lose market share and profitability \n\nDeep ecology is a movement founded by Arne Naess that establishes principles for the well-being of all life on Earth and the richness and diversity of life forms. The movement advocates, among other things, a substantial decrease in human population and consumption along with the reduction of human interference with the nonhuman world. To achieve this, deep ecologists advocate policies for basic economic, technological, and ideological structures that will improve the \"quality of life\" rather than the \"standard of living\". Those who subscribe to these principles are obliged to make the necessary change happen. The concept of a billion-year Sustainocene has been developed to initiate policy consideration of an earth where human structures power and fuel the needs of that species (for example through artificial photosynthesis) allowing Rights of Nature.\n\nOne approach to sustainable living, exemplified by small-scale urban transition towns and rural ecovillages, seeks to create self-reliant communities based on principles of simple living, which maximize self-sufficiency particularly in food production. These principles, on a broader scale, underpin the concept of a bioregional economy. These approaches often utilize commons based knowledge sharing of open source appropriate technology.\n\nOther approaches, loosely based around New Urbanism, are successfully reducing environmental impacts by altering the built environment to create and preserve sustainable cities which support sustainable transport and zero emission housing. Residents in compact urban neighborhoods drive fewer miles, and have significantly lower environmental impacts across a range of measures, compared with those living in sprawling suburbs. Compact urban neighbourhoods would also promote a great people climate, where by increasing the accessibility to bike, walk or take public transport within neighbourhoods would increase the amount of interaction between people. With more diversification between people, this increases people's happiness and leads to a better standard of living. In sustainable architecture the recent movement of New Classical Architecture promotes a sustainable approach towards construction, that appreciates and develops smart growth, architectural tradition and classical design. This in contrast to modernist and globally uniform architecture, as well as opposing solitary housing estates and suburban sprawl. Both trends started in the 1980s. The concept of Circular flow land use management has also been introduced in Europe to promote sustainable land use patterns that strive for compact cities and a reduction of greenfield land take by urban sprawl.\n\nLarge scale social movements can influence both community choices and the built environment. Eco-municipalities may be one such movement. Eco-municipalities take a systems approach, based on sustainability principles. The eco-municipality movement is participatory, involving community members in a bottom-up approach. In Sweden, more than 70 cities and towns—25 per cent of all municipalities in the country—have adopted a common set of \"Sustainability Principles\" and implemented these systematically throughout their municipal operations. There are now twelve eco-municipalities in the United States and the American Planning Association has adopted sustainability objectives based on the same principles.\n\nThere is a wealth of advice available to individuals wishing to reduce their personal and social impact on the environment through small, inexpensive and easily achievable steps. But the transition required to reduce global human consumption to within sustainable limits involves much larger changes, at all levels and contexts of society. The United Nations has recognised the central role of education, and have declared a decade of education for sustainable development, 2005–2014, which aims to \"challenge us all to adopt new behaviours and practices to secure our future\". The Worldwide Fund for Nature proposes a strategy for sustainability that goes beyond education to tackle underlying individualistic and materialistic societal values head-on and strengthen people's connections with the natural world.\n\nApplication of social sustainability requires stakeholders to look at human and labor rights, prevention of human trafficking, and other human rights risks. These issues should be considered in production and procurement of various worldwide commodities. The international community has identified many industries whose practices have been known to violate social sustainability, and many of these industries have organizations in place that aid in verifying the social sustainability of products and services. The Equator Principles (financial industry), Fair Wear Foundation (garments), and Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition are examples of such organizations and initiatives. Resources are also available for verifying the life-cycle of products and the producer or vendor level, such as Green Seal for cleaning products, NSF-140 for carpet production, and even labeling of Organic food in the United States.\n\nThe cultural dimension of sustainability is known as cultural sustainability. Important in the advancement of this notion have been the United Nations, Unesco, and in particular their Agenda 21 and Agenda 21 for culture (now also known as Culture 21), a program for cultural governance developed in 2002–2004 and coordinated by United Cities and Local Governments UCLG, created in 2004.\n\nSustainability is central to underpinning feelings of authenticity in tourism. Experiences can be enhanced when substituting the contrived for the genuine, and at the same time inspire a potentially deleterious appetite for follow-up visits to the real thing: objectively authentic sites untouched by repair or rejuvenation. Feelings of authenticity at a tourist site are thus implicitly linked to sustainable tourism; as the maximisation of existential \"felt\" authenticity at sites of limited historical provenance increases the likelihood of return visits.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24384911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24384911", "title": "Vourukasha", "text": "Vourukasha\n\nVourukasha is the name of a heavenly sea in Zoroastrian mythology. It was created by Ahura Mazda and in its middle stood the \"Harvisptokhm\" or the \"tree of all seeds\".\n\nAccording to the Vendidad, Ahura Mazda sent the clean waters of Vourukasha down to the earth in order to cleanse the world and sent the water back to the heavenly sea \"Puitika\". This phenomenon was later interpreted as the coming and going of the tide. At the centre of Vourukasha was located the Harvisptokhm or \"tree of all seeds\" which contain the seeds of all plants in the world. There is a bird Sinamru on the tree which causes the bough to break and seeds to sprinkle all around when it alights.\n\nAt the center of the Vourukasha also grows the \"Gaokerena\" or \"White Haoma\", considered to be the \"king of healing plants\". It is surrounded by ten thousand other healing plants.\n\nIn later times, Vourukasha was connected with the Persian Sea and the \"Puitika\" with the Gulf of Oman.\n"}
{"id": "58172795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58172795", "title": "Wharite Peak", "text": "Wharite Peak\n\nWharite Peak is a mountain at the southern end of the Ruahine Range, north of Woodville in the Manawatu-Wanganui region of New Zealand. The mountain is home to the main television transmitter for the city of Palmerston North and the wider Manawatu region.\n\nA 1 kW television transmitter was established atop Wharite in 1963, relaying WNTV1 from Wellington. It was replaced with a 100 kW transmitter in 1966.\n"}
