{"id": "399536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399536", "title": "Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani", "text": "Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani\n\nAkbar Hashemi Rafsanjani ( or Hashemi Bahramani, often mistakenly known as \"Ali Akbar\" Hashemi Rafsanjani ; 25 August 1934 – 8 January 2017) was an influential Iranian politician, writer and one of the founding fathers of the Islamic Republic who was the fourth President of Iran from 3 August 1989 until 3 August 1997. He was the head of the Assembly of Experts from 2007 until 2011, when he decided not to nominate himself for the post. He was also the chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council.\n\nDuring the final years of the Iran–Iraq War, Rafsanjani was the \"de facto\" commander-in-chief of the Iranian military. He was elected chairman of the Iranian parliament in 1980, serving until 1989. He played an important role in the choice of Ali Khamenei as Supreme Leader.\n\nRafsanjani became president of Iran after winning the 1989 election. He served another term by winning the election in 1993. In the 2005 election he ran for a third term in office, placing first in the first round of elections but ultimately losing to rival Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the run-off. He and his family faced political isolation for their support of the opposition in 2009. Rafsanjani entered the race for the 2013 presidential election, but he was disqualified by the Guardian Council. With Hassan Rouhani's election, in which Rafsanjani openly supported him, the Rafsanjani family gradually recovered their political reputation. Rafsanjani died following a heart attack on 8 January 2017 in a hospital in Tehran at the age of 82.\n\nRafsanjani has been described as having been a pragmatic Islamic conservative. \"The Economist\" called him a \"veteran kingmaker\". He supported a free market position domestically, favoring privatization of state-owned industries and a moderate position internationally, seeking to avoid conflict with the United States and the West. He was also founder and one of the Board of Trustees of Azad University. In 2003, \"Forbes\" estimated his personal wealth to be in excess of USD$1 billion.\n\nRafsanjani was born on 25 August 1934 in the village of Bahreman near the city of Rafsanjan in Kerman Province, to a wealthy family of pistachio farmers. He had seven siblings. His father, Mirza Ali Hashemi Behramani, was one of Kerman's famous businessmen and a Pistachio merchant. His mother, Hajie Khanom Mahbibi Hashemi, died at the age of 90 on 21 December 1995. One of his brothers, Mohammad Hashemi is the former director of IRIB. Rafsanjani did not see himself as a peasant from childhood, according to family members.\n\nHe left at the age of 14 to study theology in Qom. There he became acquainted with the ideas of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the most senior dissident cleric who later became the founder of the Islamic Republic, on the political rule of the clergy. He studied theology. His other teachers were Seyyed Hossein Borujerdi, Mohammad-Reza Golpaygani, Mohammad Kazem Shariatmadari, Abdul-Karim Ha'eri Yazdi, Shahab al-Din Mar'ashi Najafi, Nematollah Salehi Najafabadi, Muhammad Husayn Tabataba'i, and Hussein-Ali Montazeri.\n\nWhen he was studying at Qom Seminary, he became interested in politics under Ruhollah Khomeini. He was one of the opposition of Mohammad Reza Shah's White Revolution and accompanied with Khomeini. With Khomeini's exile, Hashemi's role in the fight against the Shah and representing Khomeini in the country was highlighted. This opposition eventually led to his arrest and imprisonment. He was arrested for 7 times from 1960 until 1979 and was in jail for four years and 5 months in total due to his clandestine activities against Pahlavi regime. Despite the anti-Western attitude of revolutionaries, he had traveled to 20 states of the United States. Although individual major pre-revolutionary speeches against Shah regime, But Khomeini acted him as financial manager of revolutionary struggle as well as connector with other revolutionary groups.\n\nAmong the groups that had a deep bond with Hashemi, was the Islamic Coalition Party, which is known as responsible for the assassination of former Prime Minister Hassan Ali Mansur. This communication was another reason for his arrest. In prison, he found the opportunity to become familiar with other groups opposed to the Shah.\n\nAfter the victory of Iranian Revolution, Hashemi became one of the members of Council of Islamic Revolution. He was one of the powerful members of the council from its establishment. He was also deputy interior minister at that time and later became the acting interior minister.\n\nHe was one of the 28 founders of Traditional right-wing Combatant Clergy Association and also one of the members of the central committee of Islamic Republican Party at the first years of the revolution. Years later, it was him that requested IRP's dissolution. His political acumen and Khomeini's full trust helped Rafsanjani as one of the most powerful politicians in Iran at that time. At the time, he was the closest person to the Khomeini and ruled as his \"eyes and ears\". According to the \"Gold\", Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps was established with the help of Hashemi.\n\nAt Iranian hostage crisis in 1980, Hashemi Rafsanjani mentioned it as \"one of the largest manufacturer in the history\". However, on the tenth anniversary of the revolution, he said in an interview that according to the experiences of these years, the hostage was \"wrong\".\n\nHashemi served as one of the Tehran's Friday Prayer Imams (for next thirty years), Representative of Khomeini at Defence High Council (after death of Mostafa Chamran) and Second-in-Command of Iran's Joint Chiefs of Staff in the last year of Iran–Iraq War. He forced Khomeini to accept to end the war. Only three months after his appointment as Iran's deputy commander-in-chief, Iran accepted United Nations Security Council Resolution 598 and eight-year war was ended.\n\nIran's first Election Law was developed with Hashemi's partnership. He nominated as one of the Islamic Republican Party's candidates in the 1980 legislative election in Tehran. He gained 1,151,514 (54%) votes and ranked 15. Rafsanjani was the Speaker of Parliament of Iran for 9 years. He was elected as the speaker in 1980 in the first season of Parliament after the Iranian Revolution. He was also chairman in the second season and first year of the third parliament. After the death of Ruhollah Khomeini, founder of the Islamic Republic and election of then-President Ali Khamenei as new supreme leader, he joined the 1989 presidential race and became the President, leaving Parliament.\n\nHe had a determining role in the dismissal of Abulhassan Banisadr as commander-in-chief of Iranian military and then his impeachment in the parliament as Iran's first president in June 1981. In the summer of 1981, he protested to the veto of the parliament's plan by the Guardian Council and informed it to Ruhollah Khomeini. This led to the establishment of Expediency Discernment Council, which later he chaired the council. He had an active role in Iran–Contra affair, which was divulged by Mehdi Hashemi and failed. Mehdi Hashemi was executed but Rafsanjani was the loser at internal dimension.\nIn October 1981 presidential election, when he voted to Ali Khamenei, he said it's vote of \"Imam (Khomeini), clerics and the parliament\". During differences between Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Khamenei, Hashemi cleverly managed to keep the position favor or against these two perspectives and take the middle position. According to Bahman Bakhtiari, at that time Mousavi was the leader of the left-wing, and Khamenei the right-wing. With the death of Khomeini (one of the supporters of leftists), leftists were weakened. In such circumstances, Hashemi leaped for a powerful presidency.\n\nRafsanjani adopted an \"economy-first\" policy, supporting a privatization policy against more state-owned economic tendencies in the Islamic Republic. Another source describes his administration as \"economically liberal, politically authoritarian, and philosophically traditional\" which put him in confrontation with more radical deputies in the majority in the Majles of Iran.\n\nAs president, Rafsanjani was credited with spurring Iran's reconstruction following the 1980–88 war with Iraq. His reforms, despite attempting to curb the powers of the ultra-conservatives, failed to do so, and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards received increasing power from Khamenei during his presidency. He was also accused of corruption by both conservatives and reformists, and was known for tough crackdowns on dissent.\n\nRafsanjani advocated a free market economy. With the state's coffers full, Rafsanjani pursued an economic liberalization policy. Rafsanjani's support for a deal with the United States over Iran's nuclear program and his free-market economic policies contrasted with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his allies, who advocate maintaining a hard line against Western intervention in the Middle East while pursuing a policy of economic redistribution to Iran's poor. By espousing World Bank inspired structural adjustment policies, Rafsanjani desired a modern industrial-based economy integrated into the global economy.\n\nRafsanjani urged universities to cooperate with industries. Turning to the quick pace of developments in today's world, he said that with \"the world constantly changing, we should adjust ourselves to the conditions of our lifetime and make decisions according to present circumstances\". Among the projects he initiated are Islamic Azad University.\nDuring his presidency, a period in which Rafsanjani is described by western media sources as having been the most powerful figure in Iran, people ordered executed by the judicial system of Iran included political dissidents, drug offenders, Communists, Kurds, Bahais, and even Islamic clerics.\n\nThe Iranian Mojahedin were recognized as a terrorist organization by both the Iranian government as well as the United States CIA. Regarding the Mojahedin, Rafsanjani said (\"Ettela'at\", 31 October 1981):\n\nRafsanjani also worked with Khamenei to maintain the stability of government after the death of Khomeini.\n\nFollowing years of deterioration in foreign relations under Khomeini during the Iran–Iraq War, Rafsanjani sought to rebuild ties with Arab states as well as with countries in Central Asia and the Caucasus, including Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan. However, relations with European countries and the United States remained poor, even though Rafsanjani had a track record of handling difficult situations and defusing crises.\n\nHe condemned both the United States and Iraq during the Persian Gulf War in 1991. After the war he strove to renew close ties with the West, although he refused to lift Khomeini's fatwa against the British author Salman Rushdie.\n\nRafsanjani said that Iran is ready to assist Iraq, \"expecting nothing in return\", he also said that \"peace and stability\" is a function of the \"evacuation of the occupiers.\"\n\nIran gave humanitarian help to the victims of the conflict. Iran sent truckloads of food and medicine to Iraq, and thousands of Kuwaiti refugees were given shelter in Iran.\n\nRafsanjani voiced support to Prince Abdullah's peace initiative and to \"everything the Palestinians agree to\". He also stated that what he called \"Iran's international interests\" must take precedence over those of Iranian allies in Syria and Lebanon.\n\nAyatollah Rafsanjani is a supporter of Iran's nuclear program. In 2007 Rafsanjani reiterated that the use of weapons of mass destruction was not part of the Islamic Republic culture. Rafsanjani said: \"You [US and allies] are saying that you cannot trust Iran would not use its nuclear achievements in the military industries, but we are ready to give you full assurances in this respect.\" According to \"The Economist\", he is regarded by many Iranians \"as the only person with the guile and clout to strike a deal with the West to end economic sanctions\" imposed upon the country due to its nuclear program.\n\nPost-presidency, Rafsanjani delivered a sermon at Tehran University in the summer of 1999 praising government use of force to suppress student demonstrations.\n\nIn 2000, in the first election after the end of his presidency, Rafsanjani ran again for Parliament. In the Tehran contest, Rafsanjani came in 30th, or last, place. At first, he was not among the 30 representatives of Tehran elected, as announced by the Iranian Ministry of the Interior, but the Council of Guardians then ruled numerous ballots void, leading to accusations of ballot fraud in Rafsanjani's favor.\nIn December 2006, Rafsanjani was elected to the Assembly of Experts representing Tehran with more than 1.5 million votes, which was more than any other candidate. Ahmadinejad's opponents won the majority of local election seats. On 4 September 2007 he was elected Chairman of the Assembly of Experts, the body that selects Iran's supreme leader, in what was considered a blow to the supporters of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. He won the chairmanship with 41 votes of the 76 cast. His ultraconservative opponent, Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, received 31 votes. Rafsanjani was re-elected to the position on 10 March 2009, running against Mohammad Yazdi. He received 51 votes compared to Yazdi's 26. On 8 March 2011, he withdrew from the election and Ayatollah Mohammad Reza Mahdavi Kani was elected as his replacement.\n\nRafsanjani has advocated freedom of expression, tolerance and civil society. In a speech on 17 July 2009, Rafsanjani criticized restriction of media and suppression of activists, and put emphasis on the role and vote of people in the Islamic Republic constitution. The event has been considered by analysts as the most important and most turbulent Friday prayer in the history of contemporary Iran. Nearly 1.5 to 2.5 million people attended the speech in Tehran.\n\nDuring the 2009 Presidential election, Rafsanjani's former rival and incumbent president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, won a disputed landslide victory over challenger Mir-Hossein Mousavi. His daughter was arrested on 21 June by plain clothes Basij during the subsequent protest and later sentenced to six months in jail on charges of spreading propaganda against the Islamic Republic.\n\nAyatollah Hashemi Rafsanjani was chairman of the Assembly of Experts, which is responsible for appointing or removing the Supreme Leader, who has been rumored to not be in the best of health. After the disputed results of the election were certified by the Supreme Leader, Rafsanjani was reported to have called a meeting of the Assembly of Experts, but it is unknown what the outcome or disposition of this meeting actually was. During this time Rafsanjani relocated from Tehran to Qom, where the country's religious leaders sit. However, for the most part, Rafsanjani was silent about the controversial 12 June election and its aftermath.\nOn 17 July 2009, Rafsanjani publicly addressed the election crisis, mass arrests and the issue of freedom of expression during Friday prayers. The prayers witnessed an extremely large crowd that resembled the Friday prayers early after the revolution. Supporters of both reformist and conservative parties took part in the event. During prayers, Rafsanjani argued the following:\nAll of us the establishment, the security forces, police, parliament and even protestors should move within the framework of law... We should open the doors to debates. We should not keep so many people in prison. We should free them to take care of their families. ... It is impossible to restore public confidence overnight, but we have to let everyone speak out. ... We should have logical and brotherly discussions and our people will make their judgments. ... We should let our media write within the framework of the law and we should not impose restrictions on them. ... We should let our media even criticize us. Our security forces, our police and other organs have to guarantee such a climate for criticism.\n\nHis support for the Green Movement reinvigorated his image among the urban middle-class segments of Iranian society who made up the bulk of the movement and solidified Rafsanjani's role as a backer of factions within Iran that advocated the reform of the system to ensure its survival.\n\nOn 8 March 2011 Rafsanjani lost his post as chairman of the powerful Assembly of Experts, replaced by Ayatollah Mohammad-Reza Mahdavi Kani. Rafsanjani stated that he withdrew from the election for chairman to \"avoid division.\" The loss was said to be the result of intensive lobbying \"in recent weeks\" by \"hardliners and supporters\" of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and part of Rafsanjani's gradual loss of power over the years.\n\nOn 11 May 2013, Rafsanjani registered for the 14 June presidential election with just minutes to spare. Former reformist president Mohammad Khatami endorsed him. However, on 21 May 2013, Iran's electoral center, Guardian Council disqualified him from standing in the presidential election. On 11 June 2013, Rafsanjani endorsed moderate Hassan Rouhani in the elections for Iran's presidency saying the candidate was \"more suitable\" than others for presidency.\n\nReformers had enjoyed his support in recent years, helping to tilt the balance of power towards more moderate forces who managed to win the presidential poll in 2013 with the victory of Hassan Rouhani and parliamentary elections in 2016.\n\nRafsanjani could not act as a political horse trader—for example, he could not prevent reformist candidates from being disqualified—but his role in guiding reformist politicians was a crucial one and, up to a point, he was able to influence Khamenei by preventing him from making one-sided decisions. Hardliners now have a chance to completely surround the Supreme Leader and block moderate influences. Rafsanjani played politics the way it was played during the time of Ayatollah Khomeini—or at least, that is what he wanted you to believe—but with his death the so-called \"Imam's Line,\" key figures from the beginning of the Revolution, who were close to Khomeini—is near its end.\n\nHe also kept his traditional connections with the clergy in the holy city of Qom and with conservative forces within the political establishment, which made it difficult for hardliners to form a strong front against moderate forces.\n\nAfter winning reelection to his seat at Assembly of Experts as Tehran district's first person, Rafsanjani announced that it was the last time that he joined an election as a candidate and will be retired from politics at the end of the current term. He also said \"Now I can die with peace of mind\" after seeing election of a moderate parliament in the 2016 legislative election.\n\nRafsanjani died on 8 January 2017, at 19:30 () following a heart attack in Tajrish's \"Shohada-ye Tajrish\" Hospital in north Tehran, as reported by Iranian state-run media. He was 82 years old at the time of his death. The government announced three days of national mourning and a public holiday on his funeral day. Black banners were raised in Tehran and other cities and some posters showed the Supreme Leader and Rafsanjani together smiling. Five days of mourning also observed in the southern province of Kerman, where Ayatollah Rafsanjani's hometown of Rafsanjan is located.\n\nTwo months after his death, a street in Tehran's Sa'adat Abad was renamed in his honour. Many streets in other cities also named Hashemi Rafsanjani. The central building of Azad University also named as Hashemi Building and a statue of him was installed outside of the building. Kerman International Airport was also renamed to Ayatollah Hashemi Rafsanjani Airport.\n\nRafsanjani was sought by the Argentinian government for ordering the 1994 AMIA bombing in Buenos Aires. It was based on the allegation that senior Iranian officials planned the attack in an August 1993 meeting, including Khamenei, the Supreme Leader, Mohammad Hejazi, Khamenei's intelligence and security advisor, Rafsanjani, then president, Ali Fallahian, then intelligence minister, and Ali Akbar Velayati, then foreign minister.\n\nIn 1997 during the Mykonos trial in Germany, it was declared that Rafsanjani, the then president of Iran, alongside Ayatollah Khamenei, Velayati and Fallahian had a role in the assassination of Iran's opposition activists in Europe.\n\nAfter his loss at the presidential elections in 2005, a growing tension between him and President Ahmadinejad arose. Rafsanjani has criticized Ahmadinejad's administration several times for conducting a purge of government officials, slow move towards privatization and recently hostile foreign policy in particular the atomic energy policy. In return Ahmadinejad fought back that Rafsanjani failed to differentiate privatization with the corrupt takeover of government-owned companies and of foreign policies which led to sanctions against Iran in 1995 and 1996. He also implicitly denounced Rafsanjani and his followers by calling those who criticize his nuclear program as \"traitors\".\n\nDuring a debate with Mir-Hossein Moussavi in 2009 presidential election, Ahmadinejad accused Hashemi of corruption. Hashemi released an open letter in which he complained about what he called the president's \"insults, lies and false allegations\" and asked the country's supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, to intervene.\n\nIn his latter years, Rafsanjani had disagreements with Ali Khamenei who has the last say in everything in Iran. Khamenei even indirectly called Rafsanjani a traitor. Khamenei acknowledged that he and Rafsanjani had differences after Rafsanjani's death, and referred to Rafsanjani as Hujjat al-Islam (lower clerical rank than Ayatollah), even though in reality Rafsanjani was of higher clerical rank, as Rafsanjani was an Ayatollah.\n\nAccording to him, the problem of having political party undertook by common sense and people. In other word Islam has not definite opinion on parties. Islam placed the duty of having party on the shoulders of peoples themselves. Islam has not any disagreement with partition. He believes that all parties before Islamic revolution in Iran controlled by Shah Regime and there was no original party in that time. In fact with victory of Islamic revolution, the existence of part becomes necessary for revolution.\n\nBefore Iranian Revolution, Rafsanjani was active in the anti-Shah activities and reportedly associated with the Islamic Coalition's \"shura-ye ruhaniyat\" () and the People's Mujahedin.\n\nAlthough Rafsanjani was a member of the pragmatic-conservative Combatant Clergy Association, he had a close bond to the Executives of Construction Party and Moderation and Development Party. In 2009, Rafsanjani ceased activity in the Combatant Clergy Association, despite remaining a member.\n\nHe was regarded as flip-flopping between conservative and reformist camps since the election of Mohammad Khatami, supporting reformers in that election, but going back to the conservative camp in the 2000 parliamentary elections as a result of the reformist party severely criticizing and refusing to accept him as their candidate. Reformists, including Akbar Ganji, accused him of involvement in murdering dissidents and writers during his presidency. In the end, the major differences between the Kargozaran and the reformists party weakened both and eventually resulted in their loss at the presidential elections in 2005. However, Rafsanjani regained close ties with the reformers since he lost the 2005 presidential elections to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\nHashemi refers to the point that the Islamic Republican Party established in the early years of revolution in Iran. Ruhollah Khomeini, at first step, was disagree with establishment of Party because he known the establishment of party as something gradually. But After consultation of Hashemi with Khomeini, the opinion of Khomeini has changed. There were many negotiations and consultations on the instructions of Party .somebodies like Yadollah Sahabi and Habibollah Peyman were to communicate but after a while there were no communication with them. Although Mortaza Motahhari had not any disagreement to establishing party but at the same time he hadn't any communication with party. In fact, the idea of establishment of republic party was necessary in order to give the Mullahs an organization and political collection. The party has established formally on 17 February 1979, namely two weeks after the victory of Islamic Revolution. The members of the party even determined their members in Kanoon Touhid in early days. The financial expenses of party originated from the voluntary aids of people. At first, religious scholars or clerics took part in the party. In early days there were no financial problem but after a while the problem appeared. Khomeini tried to give financial aid to the party with giving money. The members primarily chose from revolutionary individuals and believed persons.\n\nFrom his marriage to Effat Marashi in 1958, Rafsanjani had three sons: Mohsen, Mehdi, and Yasser, as well as two daughters, Fatemeh and Faezeh. Only Faezeh Hashemi chose a political life, which led to her becoming a Majlis representative and then the publisher of the weekly newspaper \"Zan\" (meaning \"Woman\" in English), which was closed in February 1999. In 2016, his daughter, Faezeh Hashemi, sparked a debate on religious persecution in Iran by visiting the female leader of the persecuted Bahai religious minority. The two women had met in prison, when Faezeh was serving a six-month sentence for \"spreading propaganda against the system.\" Another Rafsanjani's daughter, Fatemeh is President of Charity Foundation for Special Diseases and Mohsen was chairman of Tehran Metro Organization and now is vice president of Azad University. His wife, Effat is the granddaughter of Mohammed Kazem Yazdi.\n\nThe Rafsanjani family took their name from his great grandfather, whose last name was Hashem. When Akbar Hashemi was born, his father was a rich businessman with a valuable pistachio business.\n\nHashemi and his partners also owned Islamic Azad University, worth an estimated USD$20–25 billion.\n\nOnly months after the revolution, Rafsanjani was shot once in the stomach by gunmen from one of the groups vying for power amid the political turmoil. He was not seriously wounded—and neither was his wife, who jumped in front to shield him from the attack. \"Great men of history do not die,\" Khomeini said in announcing that Rafsanjani had survived.\n\n\nIn addition, the full text of his Friday Prayer sermons and his congress keynote speeches are also published separately. Based on his diary, viewpoints, speeches and interviews, several independent books have been published so far.\nThe book in fact considered as a key to the subjects and concepts of Quran. The book has been written by Hashemi and several other scholars.\n\nAlthough he was a close follower of Ayatollah Khomeini and considered as a central elite during Islamic revolution, at the same time he was fan of reconstruction of shattered country after war and according to this fact, he selected his cabinets from western-educated technocrats and social reformers. His cabinet largely was a reformist one. Rafsanjani acquired both the support of Imam Khomeini in one hand and Majlis in other hand. In fact, he tried to transfer the economy towards the free-market system. There was a gap among Rafsanjani and Khatami and reform agenda because of his partnership with those who were conservative. The first face of reformist movements began by Rafsanjani.\n\n\nOfficial\nOther\n"}
{"id": "10802091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10802091", "title": "Alexander Strehl", "text": "Alexander Strehl\n\nAlexander Strehl (born in Nuremberg) is a computer scientist, management consultant and business school professor. His areas of expertise are business software, enterprise resource planning, business intelligence, strategies, personalization, artificial intelligence, cluster analysis, and data mining. He received a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from the University Of Texas At Austin, was the creator of cluster ensembles, a director of flatfox AG, and a management consultant at McKinsey & Company. He is currently teaching at the University of Aalen and serves as an independent industry consultant.\n\n"}
{"id": "21807720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21807720", "title": "Alfred Conkling Coxe Jr.", "text": "Alfred Conkling Coxe Jr.\n\nAlfred Conkling Coxe Jr. (May 7, 1880 – December 21, 1957) was a United States federal judge.\n\nHe was born in Utica, New York on May 7, 1880. He received an A.B. from Yale University in 1901 then attended Cornell Law School. He was in private practice in Utica from 1903 to 1905, and in New York City from 1905 to 1929.\n\nOn April 18, 1929, Coxe was nominated by President Herbert Hoover to a new seat on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York created by 45 Stat. 1317. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on April 29, 1929, and received his commission on May 1, 1929. He assumed senior status on January 31, 1951, serving in that capacity until his death\n\nHe died in Old Lyme, Connecticut on December 21, 1957.\n\nCoxe was the son of Alfred Conkling Coxe Sr., who was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the great-grandson of Alfred Conkling, who served as a U.S. Representative from upstate New York and a judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. He was also a grand nephew of Roscoe Conkling, who was a Congressman and Senator from New York and boss of the state's Republican political machine. Coxe's great-grandfather was abolitionist minister Samuel Hanson Cox.\n\n"}
{"id": "22729602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22729602", "title": "American Evaluation Association", "text": "American Evaluation Association\n\nThe American Evaluation Association (AEA) is a professional association for evaluators and those with a professional interest in the field of evaluation, including practitioners, faculty, students, funders, managers, and government decision-makers. , AEA has approximately 7057 members from all 50 US states and over 60 other countries.\n\nThe American Evaluation Association's mission is to:\n\nAEA Publishes the AEA: Guiding Principles for Evaluators, which set expectations for evaluators in the areas of: (a) systematic inquiry, (b) competence, (c) integrity/honesty, (d) respect for people, and (e) responsibilities for general and public welfare.\n\nAEA sponsors two journals. The American Journal of Evaluation is published quarterly through SAGE Publications and includes individually peer-reviewed articles on a range of topics in the field. New Directions for Evaluation is a peer-reviewed thematic sourcebook published quarterly through Jossey-Bass/Wiley, with each issue focusing on a different topic or aspect of evaluation.\n\n, AEA has 51 topically-focused subgroups. Each subgroup develops a strand of content for the association's annual conference, and works to build a community of practice through various means.\n\n\nIn 1986, the Evaluation Research Society and Evaluation Network merged to become the American Evaluation Association.\n"}
{"id": "56452647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56452647", "title": "Anne Cannon Forsyth", "text": "Anne Cannon Forsyth\n\nAnne Cannon Forsyth was an educational activist who created the Anne C. Stauffer Foundation in 1967, and also served as founder and president of the North Carolina Fund. The Anne Cannon Trust awarded $100,000 to Appalachian State University to provide educational scholarships to underrepresented populations.\n\nBorn into a wealthy family in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Forsyth felt the need to help under-represented people. Specifically, Forsyth was concerned with the problems of poverty and racism. She began her work helping this cause by creating the Anne C. Stauffer Foundation in 1967, which aimed to \"promote the integration of southern preparatory schools\". The Anne C. Stauffer Foundation largely helped integrate the Virginia Episcopal School in 1967, Bill Alexander and Marvin Barnard were among the first two to attend. Forsyth rationalized starting the program because of the benefits she believed both black and white students would acquire. The foundation over the course of its operation from 1967 to 1975 enable 142 students, mainly African Americans, to attend prep schools in the southern United States.\n\nAnne Cannon Forsyth was the daughter of Zachary Smith Reynolds and Anne Cannon Stauffer. Forysth had a tumultuous childhood after the divorce of her parents and the early death of her father.\n\nForsyth has two sons, Zachary Tate and Jock Tate, both involved in the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation.\n\nIn August 2006, the Anne Cannon Trust was founded in Forsyth's honor, which funded 20 scholarships for students of under-represented groups to attend Appalachian State University. Forsyth also founded the Awards Committee for Education (ACE), which funded scholarships for high achieving Native American and African American high school students from Appalachia for summer programs.\n"}
{"id": "15948337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15948337", "title": "Aronson LLC", "text": "Aronson LLC\n\nAronson LLC is an American accounting and financial consulting company based in Rockville, Maryland. The company employs more than 250 accountants, consultants and administrative staff, and specializes in financial audit, tax and management consulting services. The company provides services for vertical markets including government contracting, nonprofit, construction, real estate, technology and professional services companies.\n\nAronson LLC is a member of Praxity, a global alliance of independent firms, organized as an international not-for-profit entity under Belgian law, with administrative office in London.\n\nThe firm was formed in 1962 by Gerald R. Aronson. With additions to management came several name changes: \nIn 2004 the company established the Aronson Foundation, a charitable organization. Foundation funding comes from donations and philanthropic work by company team members, officers, clients and contacts.\n\nIn 2005, Aronson merged with Capron Associates, LLP, a small public accounting firm based in Bethesda, Maryland. Capron was absorbed into Aronson's organizational structure, operating under the Aronson name and moving to their Rockville offices. In 2008, the company integrated Norman A. Snyder, III, CPA's audit practice, formerly associated with Virginia's Fitzgerald, Snyder & Co., into their practice.\n\nIn 2009, Aronson moved to new headquarters in Rockville.\n\nAronson Capital Partners is an investment bank providing mergers and acquisitions services, corporate finance and valuation services to middle-market companies in the defense and government technology services industries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7516927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7516927", "title": "August Anheuser Busch Sr.", "text": "August Anheuser Busch Sr.\n\nAugust Anheuser Busch Sr. (December 29, 1865 – February 10, 1934) was an American brewing magnate who served as the President and CEO of Anheuser-Busch, based in Saint Louis, Missouri, from 1913 to 1934. It became the world's largest brewery in 1957 under direction of his son August A. \"Gussie\" Busch Jr.\n\nAugust Anheuser Busch was born on December 29, 1865, in St. Louis, Missouri. His father, Adolphus Busch, was the German-born founder of Anheuser-Busch. His mother, Lilly Eberhard Anheuser, was the third daughter of brewer Eberhard Anheuser, who owned the Anheuser Brewery. He had eight brothers and five sisters.\n\nBusch became President of Anheuser-Busch in 1913, shortly after his father's death. Under his leadership, the company survived World War I, Prohibition, and the Great Depression by innovating and diversifying.\n\nThe company delved into the production of corn products, baker's yeast, ice cream, soft drinks, and commercial refrigeration units to stay afloat during Prohibition. After Prohibition ended in 1933, many of these operations were discontinued. August also managed to keep Anheuser-Busch prosperous during anti-German bias of World War I. He built the Bevo Mill, about halfway between his mansion on Gravois Road and the Anheuser-Busch brewery downtown.\n\nBusch married Alice Ziesemann on May 8, 1890. Their children were Adolphus III, Marie, Clara, August Jr., and Alice Busch. The Busches were among prominent families who participated in the Veiled Prophet Ball, and in 1922, Alice Busch was selected as that year's Queen of Love and Beauty.\n\nBoth sons joined the family business. Eldest son Adolphus Busch III became President and CEO of Anheuser-Busch. After his death in 1946, August Jr. became CEO, building the company into the largest brewery in the world.\n\nIn his later life, Busch suffered from heart disease, dropsy, and gout. After being severely ill for several months, he committed suicide at the age of 68 with a gunshot to the abdomen on February 10, 1934, at the Busch Mansion at Grant's Farm. Before shooting himself, August penned a brief note to his family saying, \"Goodbye precious mommie and adorable children.\" The St. Louis County coroner's jury gathered at the Busch mansion and heard Busch's chauffeur testify to the events of August's suicide. A Dr. P.E. Rutledge of Kirkwood also testified that he had given Busch morphine seven hours before the suicide. The coroner's jury ruled August's death a suicide due to long illness.\n\nThousands of people mourned August at the Busch mansion, including senators and brewers. Busch's lawyer, Daniel N. Kirby said during the service, \"As worthy son of a noble father, he was as great a leader in saving the industry as his father had been in creating it.\" Although his parents are buried in a mausoleum at Bellefontaine Cemetery, August wished to be buried at Sunset Burial Park, near Grant's Farm in St. Louis. St. Louis police had to keep crowds away from August's grave.\n\nIn 1947, his widow Alice Busch donated $70,000 to help with the purchase of the August A. Busch Memorial Conservation Area, as a memorial to her husband.\n\n"}
{"id": "52838112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52838112", "title": "British Plastics Federation", "text": "British Plastics Federation\n\nThe British Plastics Federation (BPF) is the main trade body for the plastics industry in the UK.\n\nIt was incorporated on 21 December 1933; the first Chairman was Charles Waghorne of Insulators Limited. It is the longest-established plastics federation in the world.\n\nIt was the 1930s that was the decade in which many common plastics were discovered, some in the UK. On 27 March 1933 Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett (with Francis Arthur Freeth FRS and Sir Michael Perrin) discovered polyethylene (polythene) at ICI's Winnington Research Laboratory at Winnington, Cheshire; John Crawford, at the Explosives group of ICI at Ardeer, North Ayrshire near Stevenston, produced a commercial synthesis of poly(methyl methacrylate), also known as Perspex with production beginning in 1934. Polythene is the world's most widespread polymer, and was first produced by ICI from 1939; many plastic bottles are made from LDPE. Polystyrene was invented in Germany in 1937. PTFE was discovered in America (New Jersey) in 1938 by Roy J. Plunkett when at DuPont. \n\nPET beverage bottles were introduced from 1973. PEEK was developed by ICI in 1977. HDPE water pipes were introduced from 1980. In 1988, a number code for recycling plastics was introduced.\n\nIt is headquartered in central London. It houses the UK office of the PlasticsEurope Europe-wide organisation.\n\nCompanies in the BPF include -\n\nIt represents the UK plastics industry. It runs its Plastipedia, a resource on plastics. In 2009 it launched the Plastics 2020 Challenge. \n\nPlastipedia is an online encyclopedia about plastics, starting from their birth in 1862 with the invention of Parkesine; it is hosted and maintained by the BPF. It has a comprehensive list of plastic manufacturing processs, and lists the 25 main processing technologies, including detailed animations. It also deals with energy management in the plastic industry and offers a guide to the main standards associated with the plastic industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19153001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19153001", "title": "Capital allowance", "text": "Capital allowance\n\nCapital allowances is the practice of allowing a company to get tax relief on tangible capital expenditure by allowing it to be expensed against its annual pre-tax income. Generally, the capital allowances will exist for only specified items of tangible capital expenditure, and the expensing is usually spread over a fixed period of years. The term is used in the UK and in Ireland. \n\nUnusually, the Irish corporate tax system has a capital allowances for intangible assets scheme which allows intangible assets to be expensed against Irish pre-tax income. It is a key Irish base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tool that U.S. multinationals use to achieve Irish corporate effective tax rates of <3%, and was used by Apple in Ireland in 2015 (leprechaun economics). \n\nCapital allowances are in contrast with depreciation, which is not allowed as a deduction for tax purposes, and must be added back to net profit for tax purposes. If capital expenditure does not qualify for a capital allowance, then it means that the business gets no tax relief on such expenditure.\n\nCapital allowances were introduced in the UK in 1946 and may be claimed for: \nHistorically, there have also been capital allowances for industrial and agricultural buildings. These have now been phased out, though an allowance may now be claimed for features integral to a building \n\nOf these, by far the most important category is plant and machinery.\n\nNeither term is defined in legislation, though guidance is given by HMRC \n\nThis defined machinery as anything that has a moving part. It does not have to be mechanically powered, so a hand operated device qualifies.\n\nThe term \"plant\" is defined in the court case \"Yarmouth v France\" which was not a tax case. This held that plant \"includes whatever apparatus is used by a businessman for carrying on his business - not his stock in trade, which he buys or makes for sale; but all goods and chattels, fixede or dead, which he keeps for permanent employment in his business\". In that case, it was held that his employer's horse was plant.\n\nThe scope of exactly what comes within the scope has been the subject of many cases. Among the more important cases, the following have been held to be plant: \nWhere a capital allowances claim has been made on a property a new purchaser can only make another claim valuing the plant and machinery at the same rate as claimed previously. Further claims can be made on a property where it is extended or re-developed but only on those new elements of plant and machinery introduced to the building.\n\nThe amount of the allowance depends on what is claimed for. In some cases, the rates are different in the year a business entity made the purchase from those in subsequent years.\n\nA business operator cannot claim capital allowances for things bought or sold: these are claimed as business expenses. If a business asset is bought on a hire purchase basis, the original cost of the item can be claimed as a capital allowance, but the interest and other charges count as business expenses.\n\nThe main types of capital allowance are:\nAIA is claimed for plant and machinery, with some exceptions such as for cars. It is fixed amount regardless of the size of the business and so is worth proportionately more for smaller businesses. The amount has varied many times since its introduction. In the 2015 summer Budget it was announced that it would be fixed at £200,000 until 2020.\n\nFYA may be claimed in the tax year in which the asset was acquired. It has largely been replaced by AIA. It may still be claimed for certain energy-saving products.\n\nWDA applies to such amounts of allowable expenditure that are not relieved by either AIA or FYA. Broadly it requires all assets to be put into either a general pool, a special pool or a single-asset pool. Assets in the general pool are written down at 18% while those in the special pool are written down at 8%. An asset in a single-asset pool is written down at either 8% or 18% depending on its nature. The advantage is that, on disposal, the whole of the written down value may be offset against taxable profits. The whole balance of a pool may be written off if it falls below £1,000.\n\nBA applies when a business ceases.\n\nCapital allowance reliefs can be set against the client’s taxable profits reducing the amount payable. Companies pay Corporation Tax at 19% (2018 figure), whilst individuals pay tax at 20%, 40% or 45%. Please note as it is an allowance against taxable profit, you have to be a tax payer to benefit, therefore this does not normally apply to property owned in SIPPS or by charities and trusts. \nAllowances are generated when a business client builds or acquires commercial property. The amount of plant contained within the building or acquired property is the key to maximising the relief.\n\nThe claim should be considered as an effective discount and cash contribution to the construction cost or purchase price. The claim provides a tax saving that accrues over time. It is possible to claim allowances on investment properties but plant let in a \"dwelling house\" is excluded. Blocks of flats, halls of residence etc. will therefore qualify.\n\nFor property that is being acquired, the specialist can apportion the purchase price under a recognised HMRC formula, and this is where the inherent property skill can maximise the claim with optimal costing of the plant contained within the property\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54300108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54300108", "title": "Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor", "text": "Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor\n\nCarlos Tomás Rodríguez-Pastor Persivale (born 1959) is a Peruvian billionaire businessman, and the owner of 71% of Intergroup Financial, a Peruvian banking and retail group. He is chairman and CEO of Intercorp, managing general partner of Nexus Group, and chairman of Interbank.\n\nCarlos Rodriguez-Pastor was born in 1959. In 1968, after a coup, he fled with his family to Ecuador and later California. His father Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor Sr. was Peru's Minister of Economy from 1982 to 1984. In 1994, his father bought Banco Internacional del Peru, but died the following year.\n\nHe was educated at the Immaculate Heart College in Lima, Peru. In 1983 he received a bachelor's degree in Social Sciences from the University of California, Berkeley, and in 1988, an MBA from Dartmouth College.\n\nFrom 1990-93, he was a vice-president at Citibank, New York, and from 1993-95, a managing director at Banco Santander, New York.\n\nSince 1995, he has been chairman and CEO of Intercorp; managing general partner of Nexus Group; chairman of Interbank, and a director of Royalty Pharma, Casa Andina, Interseguro, Supermercados Peruanos, Inteligo Bank, InRetail, Innova Schools, and NG Restaurants.\n\nRodriguez-Pastor did not want anyone to know how rich he is, \"I don't see what the big deal is\".\n\nHe is married to Gabriela Perez Rocchietti, they have two children, and live in Lima, Peru.\n"}
{"id": "5091902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5091902", "title": "Central Administrative Okrug", "text": "Central Administrative Okrug\n\nCentral Administrative Okrug, or Tsentralny Administrativny Okrug (, \"Tsentralny administrativny okrug\"), is one of the twelve administrative okrugs of Moscow, Russia, located within the Kamer-Kollezhny Bank. Population: \n\nIt was established in 1991. OKATO number 45 286 000 000.\n\nThe okrug, governed by the prefecture, encompasses ten districts. The territory of Kitai-gorod is not a part of any district and is governed by the administrative okrug directly.\n\nThe Kremlin Hill, from which the colonization of Moscow began, is depicted under Yury Dolgoruky. The purple background symbolizes the supreme power of Russia, concentrated in Central Administrative Okrug. The gold unicorn was a traditional symbol of the Russian Tsars. Below him an ancient Kremlin white-stone wall is featured.\n\nThe Interstate Aviation Committee (IAC or MAK), the aviation accident technical investigation body of the Commonwealth of Independent States, has its head office in the Yakimanka District in the okrug. The Federal Penitentiary Service has its head office in Yakimanka District.\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Science has its head office in the Tverskoy District.\n\nAeroflot has its head office in the Arbat District in the okrug. United Aircraft Corporation has its head office in the Krasnoselsky District in the okrug. Tupolev has its head office in the Basmanny District in the okrug.\n\nThe All Nippon Airways Moscow sales office is located in the Presnensky District in the okrug. Korean Air operates its CIS office in the Tverskoy District in the okrug.\n\nThe \"Lycée Français Alexandre Dumas de Moscou\", a French international school, is located in the Krasnoselsky District in the okrug.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27692496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27692496", "title": "Chad Hamre", "text": "Chad Hamre\n\nChad Hamre is the CEO and co-founder of Ethical Ocean- a social business incorporated federally in Canada in 2008. Hamre was born and raised in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. He holds a master's degree in Development Management from the London School of Economics and a bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Saskatchewan. In 2005, he was awarded the Student Gold Medal by Engineers Canada. In 2008, he was awarded the Outstanding Young Alumni Award by the University of Saskatchewan Alumni Association.\n"}
{"id": "35761226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35761226", "title": "Chemical plant cost indexes", "text": "Chemical plant cost indexes\n\nChemical plant cost indexes are dimensionless numbers employed to updating capital cost required to erect a chemical plant from a past date to a later time, following changes in the value of money due to inflation and deflation. Since, at any given time, the number of chemical plants is insufficient to use in a preliminary or predesign estimate, cost indexes are handy for a series of management purposes, like long-range planning, budgeting and escalating or de-escalating contract costs.\n\nA cost index is the ratio of the actual price in a time period compared to that in a selected base period (a defined point in time or the average price in a certain year), multiplied by 100. Raw materials, products and energy prices, labor and construction costs change at different rates, and plant construction cost indexes are actually a composite, able to compare generic chemical plants capital costs.\n\nAlthough the available indexes are compiled in several ways, they are defined to encompass a specific set of conditions and items. Prices for these items can be obtained either through company’s purchasing department data or through published indexes, like those published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Both the CE and the IC indexes, from Chemical Engineering and Intratec, respectively, employs BLS’ data.\n\nThe weighting of such factors, which is defined by the realized degree of importance of each component in the specific index (or sub-index), aims to represent the costs variations typically found for chemical plants.\n\nTo update an item cost (equipment, projects) from period A to period B, is necessary to multiply period A’s cost by the ratio of period B’s index over period A’s index, according to the following equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nAs a rule-of-thumb, cost indexes permit fairly accurate estimates for cost escalation if the difference between period A and period B is less than 10 years. Differences between the actual equipment and labor prices and those predicted by the index tend to grow over the years, surpassing the typical error verified in budget-level estimates.\n\nThe selection of the proper index to use depends on the industry in which it is applied. For example, while CE, M&S or IC Index are typically employed for chemical process industries, the ENR (Engineering News-Record) construction index is used for general industrial construction and takes in account the prices for fixed amounts of structural steel, cement, lumber and labor.\n\nThe majority of cost indexes demonstrate a time lag, due to data collection and its compilation for publishing. As stated before, some indexes use information published by other organizations and a delay in data may be verified (like those provide by the BLS). Exceptions to this are the ENR construction and the IC indexes, which present relatively current values.\n\nThe main indexes available for process industries include:\n\n\nThe standard indexes available are usually restricted to a particular region, as in the case of NF Index, which is accurate only to the region of the US Gulf coast (USGC). Likewise most of the data available for plant and equipment costs are mostly either in\nHence the Index values cannot be used to get accurate results in other regions of the world. This variation might be due various factors such as \nOf all these factors currency exchange rates is said to have the greatest impact in the variation of results.\n\nCost indexes for international locations is published in \"Process Engineering\" journal as well as in the \"International Journal of Production Economics\" (formerly \"Engineering Costs and Production Economics\"). As of 2012 \"Process Engineering\" has not been publishing new indexes viewable by full access from EbscoHost. They mentioned in May/June 2012 that their analyst had fallen sick.\n\nIn order to be able to use the available standard indexes to locations where index data is not available we have to incorporate a new term called the Location Factor (LF) to the standard index value. It is a dimensionless value for a particular location relative to either of the above-mentioned basis.\n\nCost in A = Cost in USGC x LF(A)\n\nwhere A is the location for which cost is being evaluated and LF(A) is the location factor for the location A relative to USGC\n\nLocation factors are greatly influenced by currency exchange rates due to their significant effect on Index value and hence vary drastically with time. Over the past couple of decades the location factors for various locations are trending close to the value 1. However location factor for a particular region within a country can be easily determined by adding 10% to the index of the reference location for every 1000 miles. The reference location is usually a major industrial location closest to the location where the index is being determined. Location factors for various locations have been published and updated in various journals as in Aspen Richardson's \"\"International Construction Cost Factor Location Manual (2003)\".\"\n"}
{"id": "31836335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31836335", "title": "Cubist Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Cubist Pharmaceuticals\n\nCubist Pharmaceuticals was a U.S. biopharmaceutical company with activities spanning from research and development to commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Its main products target pathogens like MRSA.\n\nCubist was one of the few firms that continued to research in antibiotics while larger pharmaceutical companies have abandoned such research. The company employs 638 people, with 370 in their headquarters in Lexington, MA. As of 2011, the company’s headquarters are under expansion and is expected to occupy in Lexington, MA. On 8 December 2014, Merck & Co. acquired Cubist for $102 per share in cash ($8.4 billion) as entree to the market for drugs that can combat superbugs.\n\nCubist was founded in May 1992 by John K. Clarke, Paul R. Schimmel, Ph.D. and Barry Bloom, Ph.D, all of whom were also directors.\nCubist appeared on Fortune 2010’s List of fastest growing companies, and was named to the 2010 Deloitte Technology Fast 500. In 2006 it had the 19th highest sales among American based biotechnology companies.\n\nIn 2011, the company acquired Adolor, maker of a drug for treatment of constipation.\n\nCubist had an ambitious growth plan laid out for the 2012-2017 quinquennium. Under this plan, the company was expected to reach 2B dollars in sales and have 4 new drugs in late stage development by 2017. As a part of this plan, sales of its flagship drug Cubicin were expected to grow to more than 1B dollars per year.\n\nIn July 2013, Cubist Pharmaceuticals agreed to purchase Trius Therapeutics and Optimer Pharmaceuticals for around $1.6 billion.\n\nIn 2014, succeeding Michael Bonney as President, Robert J. Perez, was announced to take leadership on January 1, 2015. In January 2015 Cubist Pharmaceuticals became a wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co.\n\nThe company markets Cubicin (daptomycin) for injection, the first antibiotic in a class of anti-infectives called lipopeptides. In 2011, Cubist settled a patent litigation with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries regarding Cubicin.\nIn April 2011 it reached a deal with Optimer Pharmaceuticals in which its class of bacterium fighting drugs will be co marketed with Optimer's Fidaxomicin/Dificid (for $15 million per year). Optimer chose Cubist because according to its CEO, \"Cubist has a proven track record and well established relations with all stakeholders involved in the antibiotics space\".\n\nIn 2011, its product pipeline focused on gram-negative bacterial infections, \"Clostridium difficile\"-associated diarrhea, and respiratory syncytial virus.\n\nTedizolid was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration on June 20, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "56733504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56733504", "title": "DeLancey Astor Kane", "text": "DeLancey Astor Kane\n\nDeLancey Astor Kane (August 28, 1844 – April 4, 1915) was an American soldier and horseman who was prominent in New York Society during the Gilded Age. He was called the \"father of coaching in the United States.\"\n\nKane was born on August 28, 1844 in Newport, Rhode Island. He was the second of eight children born to Oliver DeLancey Kane (1816–1874) and Louisa Dorothea (née Langdon) Kane (1821–1894). His brothers were Walter Langdon, John Innes Kane, Woodbury Kane, S. Nicholson Kane. His sisters were Louisa Langdon Kane, Emily Astor Kane (who married Augustus Jay and was the mother of Peter Augustus Jay), and Sybil Kent Kane.\n\nHe was the grandson of Walter Langdon and Dorothea (née Astor) Langdon and the great-grandson of John Jacob Astor. He was a cousin of Lt. Col. John Jacob Astor IV. His paternal lineage descended from John O'Kane who emigrated to the country in 1752 from County Londonderry and Antrim, Ireland. During the American Revolutionary War, O'Kane (who dropped the \"'O\" once in America) was living at Sharyvogne, his estate in Dutchess County, which was confiscated after the War due to his Loyalist times. His eldest son, John Jr., stayed and became one of the most prominent merchants in New York.\n\nThe family lived at \"Beach Cliffe\", designed by Detlef Lienau, which was one the earliest Newport cottages \"to attain a sort of Beaux-Arts purity.\" Kane graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York in 1868. Following his service in the U.S. Army, he studied at Trinity College, Cambridge in England and in 1873, graduated from Columbia Law School.\n\nKane, who inherited $10,000,000 from his mother's family, was a Lieutenant in the First Cavalry, U.S.A. from 1868 to 1870 when he retired as a Colonel, a title by which he was known for most of his life.\n\nIn 1876, Kane founded, with Col. William Jay, The Coaching Club of New York devoted to the coaching of horses which he picked up after his time spent in England. His stagecoach, \"Tally-ho\" was the first private stagecoach for pleasure riding in the United States.\n\nIn 1892, both Kane and his wife Eleanora were included in Ward McAllister's \"Four Hundred\", purported to be an index of New York's best families, published in \"The New York Times\". Conveniently, 400 was the number of people that could fit into Mrs. Astor's ballroom.\n\nHe was a member of the Union Club, Metropolitan Club, the Knickerbocker Club, Country Club, the Coaching Club, the New York Yacht Club and the Larchmont Yacht Clubs.\n\nHis wife's father built them a county estate, known as \"The Paddocks\" in Davenport Neck, New Rochelle. The estate had a panoramic view of the Long Island Sound and Fort Slocum.\n\nIn 1872, Kane was married to Eleanora Iselin (1849–1938), the daughter of Adrian Georg Iselin, a prominent New York merchant and banker. Eleanora was also the sister of Columbus and Charles Iselin. In 1901, Kane and his wife purchased the former home of Arthur Astor Carey in Newport for $100,000 where he became a permanent resident. Together, they were the parents of one child:\n\n\nKane died of pneumonia on April 4, 1915 at the Kane estate in Davenport Neck in New Rochelle, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "37863607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37863607", "title": "Duck Commander", "text": "Duck Commander\n\nDuck Commander is both the brand of a duck call and the name of the company in West Monroe, Louisiana, United States. The company manufactures these calls and other duck-hunting merchandise, as well as deer-hunting merchandise under the Buck Commander brand.\n\nPhil Robertson, a football quarterback at Louisiana Tech University, founded the company. He began his business in a dilapidated boat, where he spent 25 years making duck calls from Louisiana cedar trees.\n\nRobertson's third son, Willie Robertson, currently serves as the company's chief executive officer and has expanded it into a multimillion-dollar enterprise.\n\nThe Robertson family and business are the subjects of \"Duck Dynasty\", a reality television series on A&E. Before that, they were featured in the \"Duck Commander\" television show on the Outdoor Channel.\n\nIn 2014, Duck Commander served as the title sponsor of the Duck Commander 500, a NASCAR Sprint Cup Series stock car race held at Texas Motor Speedway in Fort Worth, Texas which had been previously sponsored by Samsung, DirecTV, Radio Shack, National Rifle Association, and others. It was replaced by O'Reilly Auto Parts in 2017.\n\nDuck Commander also purchased in 2014 the naming rights for college football's Independence Bowl, held each year in Shreveport, Louisiana.\n\n"}
{"id": "36963916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36963916", "title": "Edinburgh Science Triangle", "text": "Edinburgh Science Triangle\n\nThe Edinburgh Science Triangle (EST) is a multi-disciplinary partnership between universities, research institutes, the National Health Service, science parks, the national economic development agency Scottish Enterprise, and central and local government in Edinburgh and neighbouring council areas. The three points of the \"triangle\" are Livingston in West Lothian, Musselburgh in East Lothian, and the Easter Bush campus in Midlothian.\n\nThe collaborative project aims to attract new indigenous and inward investment, and to build a professional scientific community based on academic research and commercial enterprises. The target sectors for the project are the life sciences, informatics, micro- and optoelectronics and energy.\n\nThe Edinburgh Science Triangle was launched by Jim Wallace, the Deputy First Minister, in September 2004, at the Roslin BioCentre in Midlothian. It is a member of Edinburgh's Local Investment Partnership, which includes the City of Edinburgh Council, Edinburgh Chamber of Commerce, Scottish Development International and Scottish Enterprise. Scottish Development International promotes the Edinburgh Science Triangle abroad.\n\nFunding to promote and support the Edinburgh Science Triangle comes from Scottish Enterprise, the European Regional Development Fund, the City of Edinburgh, Midlothian and West Lothian councils, and the participating science parks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3358212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3358212", "title": "European Association of Craft, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises", "text": "European Association of Craft, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises\n\nThe European Association of Craft, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises or UEAPME is an umbrella group for associations of SMEs based in Brussels, Belgium. UEAPME represents the interests of European crafts, trades and SMEs at EU level. Its 67 member organisations from 34 European countries consist of national cross-sectorial SME federations, European branch federations and other associate members. Its members combined represent more than 12 million enterprises, which employ around 50 million people across Europe. UEAPME is a recognised European Social Partner.\n\nUEAPME was founded in 1980. The first headquarters of the association were in Munich, Germany. After some years in Germany, the organisation moved its headquarters to Brussels, Belgium, where it was established in 1991 as an international not for profit association under Belgian law (AISBL). The acronym UEAPME was made official in this incorporation and stands for “Union Européenne de l’Artisanat et des Petites et Moyennes Enterprises”, i.e. the European Union of Crafts and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.\n\nThe aims of UEAPME as written in its statutes are as follows:\n\n\nAs of 1998, UEAPME is a European Social Partner alongside BUSINESSEUROPE (previously UNICE), the European Centre of Enterprises with Public Participation and of Enterprises of General Economic Interest (CEEP) and the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC). In 1996, the first negotiations between UNICE, CEEP and ETUC led to the conclusion of a framework agreement on parental leave. UEAPME challenged the validity of the directive implementing the agreement before the European Court of First Instance, claiming a violation of its own right to negotiate. The complaint was dismissed in June 1998, but the court case created political momentum for the opening of discussions with UNICE, according to the principle of mutual recognition. In November of the same year, the two organisations reached an agreement, further to which UEAPME became a recognised participant in the European social dialogue.\n\nUEAPME is run by a Secretariat based in Brussels consisting of 20 staff members working in thematic directorates. The Secretariat also includes an administrative section, a press office and a Study Unit. The current President is Ulrike Rabmer-Koller, from Austria, since January 2016.\n\nThe UEAPME structure also includes a Board of Directors as well as several Committees, Working Groups and Task Forces.\n\nUEAPME counts more than 67 member organisations spanning across all Member States of the EU and beyond, representing 12 million enterprises and nearly 55 million employees.\n\nThe full members of UEAPME are composed of representative national, cross-sectoral organisations representing craft activities and/or SME businesses in the different sectors of the economy within the European Union. Full members have the right to vote.\n\nUEAPME has three types of associate members.\n\nAssociate members attend and speak at UEAPME meetings, but have no voting rights.\n\nSome of the key EU legislative areas in which UEAPME is active include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2338744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2338744", "title": "Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland", "text": "Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland\n\nThe Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland is the Cleveland-based headquarters of the U.S. Federal Reserve System's Fourth District. The district is composed of Ohio, western Pennsylvania, eastern Kentucky, and the northern panhandle of West Virginia. It has branch offices in Cincinnati and Pittsburgh. The check processing center in Columbus, Ohio, was closed in 2005. The chief executive officer and president is Loretta Mester.\n\nThe bank building is a 13-story 203 foot high-rise, located at Superior Avenue and East 6th Street in downtown Cleveland was designed by the Cleveland firm of Walker and Weeks and completed in 1923. Its exterior architecture emulates an Italian Renaissance palazzo, is clad in pink Sienna marble. An extension to the building designed by HOK was completed in 1998, providing new facilities for check processing and cash handling. The building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\nThe building's entrances feature allegorical sculptures by Henry Hering representing \"Security\" and \"Integrity\" flanking the East Sixth Street entrance, while his \"Energy\" watches the Superior Avenue entry.\n\nIts original bank vault door is the largest in the world. The door casting itself was . It incorporates the largest hinge ever built. The hinge has an overall height of and weighs over fully assembled. The vault's use was discontinued in 1997, though it is preserved intact for posterity.\nIn January 2006, the bank opened the Learning Center and Money Museum, replacing the public teller windows vacated after September 11, 2001. Over 30 hands-on exhibits focus on the history of money, its effects on societies and cultures, and its central role in peoples' lives. The museum is open from Monday through Thursday, except for bank holidays, and admission is free. \n\nThe museum includes a variety of activities and multi-media experiences to educate visitors, including computerized games about trading, writing contests, crayon rubbings, videos, speeches, films, and virtual tours, One recent addition to the Learning Center and Money Museum is the documentary titled \"The Panic of 1907\" which details how the panic led to the creation of the Federal Reserve System. This film was produced by Joseph G. Haubrich and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. \n\nThe following people are listed as on the board of directors . Class A directors are elected by member banks to represent member banks. Class B directors are elected by member banks to represent the public. Class C directors are appointed by the Board of Governors to represent the public. Terms always expire on December 31 of their final year on the board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1251025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251025", "title": "Forrest Mars Sr.", "text": "Forrest Mars Sr.\n\nForrest Edward Mars Sr. (March 21, 1904 – July 1, 1999) was an American businessman and the driving force of the Mars candy empire. He is best known for introducing Milky Way (1923) and Mars (1932) chocolate candy bars, and M&M's (1941) chocolate candy, as well as orchestrating the launch of Uncle Ben's Rice. He was the son of candy company Mars, Inc. founder Frank C. Mars and his first wife Ethel G. Mars (née Kissack).\n\nMars was born in Wadena, Minnesota, and raised in Saskatchewan, Canada after his parents' divorce when he was just a child. He rarely saw his father. After high school he entered the University of California, Berkeley and later transferred to Yale University, where he completed a degree in industrial engineering in 1928.\n\nAs an adult, Forrest Mars reunited with his father at Mars, Inc. However, the pair ran into a disagreement when Forrest wanted to expand abroad while his father did not. Mars then took a buyout from his father and moved to England where he created the Mars bar and Maltesers while estranged from his father in 1933. In Europe, Mars briefly worked for Nestlé and the Tobler company.\n\nIn 1934, he bought a British company, Chappel Bros, specialized in canned meat for dogs. Due to the lack of competition, Forrest took control of this market as he launched and marketed Chappie's canned food.\n\nAfter he returned to the United States, Mars started his own food business, Food Products Manufacturing, where he established the Uncle Ben's Rice line and a pet food \nbusiness, Pedigree. In partnership later with Bruce Murrie, Mars developed M&M's, the chocolate candy covered in a crunchy shell which \"melts in your mouth, not in your hands,\" in 1940. They were modeled after a candy that he had discovered while in Spain during the 1930s. It is believed that he got the idea when he saw soldiers eating a similar candy during the Spanish Civil War. Peanut M&M's were introduced in 1954 although Forrest had been allergic to peanuts his entire life. Murrie later left the business.\n\nFollowing the death of his father, Forrest Mars took over the family business, Mars, Inc, merging it with his own company in 1964. \nHe was married to Audrey Ruth Meyer (b. May 25, 1910, in Chicago, d. June 15, 1989, in Washington, D.C.), and they had four children – Forrest Jr., John, Janet, and Jacqueline.\n\nMars retired from Mars, Inc. in 1973, turning the company over to his children.\n\nIn 1980, retired and living in Henderson, Nevada, he founded Ethel M Chocolates, named after his mother. Ethel M was purchased by Mars, Inc. in 1988.\n\nMars died at age 95 in Miami, Florida, having amassed a fortune of $4 billion. He was ranked as 30th in \"Forbes\" magazine's list of richest Americans (Forrest Jr. and John were 29th and 31st, respectively). He left the business jointly to his three children.\n\nMars was inducted into the Junior Achievement U.S. Business Hall of Fame in 1984.\n\n\nProfile in Fortune Magazine, published in 1967, republished March 31, 2013. http://fortune.com/2013/03/31/the-sweet-secret-world-of-forrest-mars-fortune-1967/\n\n"}
{"id": "22567684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22567684", "title": "George Zinkhan", "text": "George Zinkhan\n\nGeorge Martin Zinkhan, III (February 17, 1952 – c. May 9, 2009) was an American academic and poet. Zinkhan was a professor of marketing at the University of Georgia from 1994 until April 26, 2009. He was named as the prime suspect in a triple homicide before authorities announced on May 9, 2009 that they had found and identified Zinkhan's body.\n\nIn 1974, Zinkhan received his Bachelor of Arts in English literature from Swarthmore College. This was followed by a Masters in Business Administration with high distinction from the University of Michigan in 1979. Zinkhan also received his doctorate in Business Administration from the University of Michigan in 1981.\n\nZinkhan was the Conn Professor of Marketing for thirteen years at the University of Houston beginning in 1981. While there, he sexually harassed multiple female academics and ultimately had a lawsuit brought against him. For one year he also was an associate professor for the University of Pittsburgh in 1987. He began as a professor at the University of Georgia's Terry College of Business in 1994, and served as Department head for Terry's Department of Marketing and Distribution from 1994 until 2001. He held an endowed chair as the department's Coca-Cola Company Professor from 1994 to 2009. According to a university spokesman, he had an impeccable track record as a teacher and was a respected professor on campus.\n\nZinkhan received an award for Outstanding Contribution to Research in 2004 which was presented by the American Academy of Advertising. He also received the \"Terry Outstanding Faculty Award\" 2006 and 2009 presented by the economics faculty of the Vrije Universiteit.\n\nZinkhan published over 100 articles in peer-reviewed academic journals, as well as numerous chapters in edited books. He was the editor of the \"Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science\" from 2003 to 2006, and of the \"Journal of Advertising\" from 1991 to 1995, as well as the book review editor of the \"Journal of Marketing\" from 1991 to 1995. In addition, he edited or co-edited several books:\n\nZinkhan's \"curriculum vitae\" listed 22 works under a section called, \"Research Activities: Poetry\". Zinkhan's poems—many of which the American Marketing Association published on its website—cover topics ranging from university politics to the Appalachian Trail.\n\nZinkhan had two children, a son and a daughter, with his wife, attorney Marie Bruce. Zinkhan also had three children from a previous marriage. The family lived in the town of Bogart in the U.S. state of Georgia. Zinkhan owned a second home in Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands, where he was a marketing professor at the Vrije Universiteit.\n\nZinkhan was named the prime suspect in the April 25, 2009, shooting deaths of his wife and two other people, Tom Tanner and Ben Teague, outside the Athens Community Theatre in Athens-Clarke County in northeast Georgia. The murders occurred during a picnic reunion of the Town & Gown Players, and all three of those killed were active in local theater productions. Two bystanders were injured by bullet fragments. According to neighbors and colleagues, there had been no advance signs of trouble. Police said Zinkhan and his wife, Marie Bruce, were having “marital difficulties,” that Tom Tanner appeared to be his “specific target” in the shootings and that Ben Teague was “at the wrong place at the wrong time.” Tanner was shot first, police said. On the same day, \"Zinkhan was charged with three counts of murder and a state arrest warrant was issued in Clarke County, Georgia. A federal arrest warrant was issued on April 26, 2009, after he was charged with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution.\"\n\nZinkhan's red Jeep Liberty was found on the night of April 30, 2009, in northwest Clarke County, Georgia. Cadaver dogs located Zinkhan's body on May 9, 2009, approximately one mile from the Jeep.\nInvestigators said that Zinkhan used a shovel to dig a grave in the woods behind Cleveland Road Elementary, lay down in it, took an old wooden pallet he had covered with dirt and debris and pulled it over top of the hole. He then fired a single shot from a .38-caliber handgun into his head.\n\nZinkhan's body was claimed by a son from a previous marriage one day before it was scheduled for burial in a pauper's grave by the Athens-Clarke County coroner's office.\n"}
{"id": "48664591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48664591", "title": "Handelsgesetzbuch", "text": "Handelsgesetzbuch\n\nThe Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, in English \"Commercial Code\") contains the core of the commercial law in Germany. It regulates the legal relations of merchants and therefore it is also designated as \"the special private law for merchants\". \n\nThe Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (BGB) (English \"Civil Code\") is only subsidiary applied to merchants beside the HGB. \nBeside that the HGB contains the regulations for the Offene Handelsgesellschaft (OHG) (English \"General partnership\"), the Kommanditgesellschaft (KG) (English \"Limited partnership\") and the Stille Gesellschaft (stG) (English \"Dormant partnership\").\n\nHGB provides regulation to accounting for limited companies.\n\nHGB also has a few penal provisions.\n\nPrecursor of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB) was the Allgemeines Deutsches Handelsgesetzbuch (ADHGB) of 1861. ADHGB was replaced in the German Empire by the HGB, that was legislated on 10 May 1897. The HGB came into force together with the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (BGB) on 1 January 1900.\n\nHGB also contains in the fifth Book the Maritime Trade Law (Seehandelsrecht).\nThe HGB is arranged as follows \n\n(table of contents): \n\n"}
{"id": "8165304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8165304", "title": "Helen Johnson-Leipold", "text": "Helen Johnson-Leipold\n\nHelen Johnson-Leipold is an American billionaire businesswoman, the daughter of Samuel Curtis Johnson, Jr., who died in 2004, and Imogene Powers Johnson and the great great granddaughter of S. C. Johnson & Son founder Samuel Curtis Johnson, Sr.. She was elected Chairman and CEO of Johnson Outdoors in March 1999, and she was elected Chairman of Johnson Financial Group in July 2004. She began her career at Foote, Cone & Belding in Chicago in 1979 and joined S. C. Johnson & Son in September 1985. She is tied with her three siblings and mother at #182 on the Forbes 400 list of Richest Americans. Johnson-Leipold was born in Racine, Wisconsin.\n\nHelen and her husband, Minnesota Wild owner Craig Leipold maintain residences in Racine, Wisconsin, and Saint Paul, Minnesota, and are the parents of five sons.\n"}
{"id": "3887350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3887350", "title": "Henry Osborne Havemeyer", "text": "Henry Osborne Havemeyer\n\nHenry Osborne Havemeyer (October 18, 1847 – December 4, 1907) was an American industrialist, entrepreneur and sugar refiner who founded and became president of the American Sugar Refining Company in 1891.\n\nHavemeyer was the third generation of his family in the sugar business and oversaw the expansion of the family firm into the American Sugar Refining Company which dominated the sugar industry in the late 19th century. Together with his wife, Louisine Havemeyer, he was an avid and prolific collector of art, one of the earliest collectors to bring Impressionist Art to America, guided by artist Mary Cassatt. After Louisine Havemeyer's death in 1929, a large part of their collection was bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nHenry Osborne Havemeyer was born in New York City on October 18, 1847, the eighth of nine children, to Frederick Christian Havemeyer Jr. (1807-1891), and Sarah Louise Henderson Havemeyer (1812-1851). His mother died in 1851 when Harry, as he was known to his family, was three years old. He was raised with the help of his grandmothers, Mary Osborne Henderson and Catharine Billiger Havemeyer, and his oldest sister, Mary Havemeyer. The family lived in a house at 193 West 14th Street, in what was then the northern frontier of New York City. In 1854, Harry Havemeyer, age seven, and his brother Thomas, age nine, were sent to study at the Bellport Academy in Long Island, under the charge of Mr. James Cruikshank. The following year, Harry followed his older brother Theodore to Mr. Betts' School in Stamford, Connecticut. He was a difficult, short-tempered student. After a fight with the principal, he left the school. His formal schooling ended at the age of eight.\n\nIn 1799, William Havemeyer (1770-1851) arrived in New York City, followed three years later by his younger brother Frederick Christian Havemeyer (1774-1841). The brothers came from a family of bakers in Bückeburg, Germany, and trained in London during the last decades of the 18th century. William Havemeyer was brought to New York under contract to Edmund Seaman to run his sugar bakery on Pine Street. Frederick followed circa 1802, and in 1805 the brothers leased land from Trinity Church on Budd Street (later renamed Vandam Street) to build their own sugar bakery, which opened in 1807. After the Havemeyer brothers retired in 1828, their respective sons, cousins William F. Havemeyer (1804-1874) and Frederick C. Havemeyer Jr. (1807-1891), took over the Havemeyer family business. In 1842 William F. Havemeyer began a political career, serving three terms as Mayor of New York City. In 1856 Frederick C. Havemeyer Jr. moved the business to Williamsburg, Brooklyn leasing a waterfront lot between South 3rd and South 4th Streets on which to establish a steam sugar refinery. In 1861 eldest son George W. Havemeyer, age 22, became partner, but died on November 27, 1861, when his clothes were caught in the crank of one of the refinery's large engines. In 1863 Frederick C. Havemeyer Jr. reorganized the business as Havemeyers & Elder, a partnership with son Theodore A. Havemeyer in charge of refinery operations and son-in-law J. Lawrence Elder in charge of the mercantile business.\n\nWhen the partnership of Havemeyers & Elder was formed in 1863, Henry Osborne Havemeyer, known in the business as H.O. Havemeyer, was a fifteen-year-old apprentice and, in the family tradition, was learning his way through all aspects of the business from testing sugar at the docks to learning the complex processes of refinery operations, including the carefully guarded secrets of sugar boiling. Subsequently, he became apprentice to J. Lawrence Elder, working on the mercantile aspect of the business—purchasing, sales and record keeping. When Elder died suddenly in 1868, H.O. Havemeyer and his brother Thomas took over the mercantile business and became partners in Havemeyers & Elder in 1869. Cousin Charles H. Senff also joined the partnership to manage refinery operations and construction with Theodore A. Havemeyer. By 1868 the Havemeyers & Elder refinery had doubled in size. Known as the Yellow Sugar House, it covered the blocks on the East River waterfront from South 2nd Street to South 5th Street. Modern innovations were introduced into refinery operations, such that sugar was refined with great efficiency. By 1876 Thomas Havemeyer was no longer involved in Havemeyers & Elder, and H.O. Havemeyer became the principal partner in charge of the mercantile business.\n\nOn Sunday, January 8, 1882, the Havemeyers & Elder refinery was completely destroyed by fire, a loss of $1.5 million. The partners, Theodore, H. O. and Frederick C. Havemeyer Jr. and cousin Charles H. Senff, agreed to rebuild and constructed a large state-of-the-art refinery, the cost of which required the entire financial resources of the family, including Frederick C. Havemeyer Jr.'s personal fortune. The new refinery was designed by Theodore A. Havemeyer, Charles H. Senff and refinery superintendent Ernest Gerbracht. It was built of completely fireproof materials—brick and iron, with cast iron columns and wrought iron beams and girders. Electric lights were installed, a new technology that was less hazardous than gas lights. The refinery reopened for business in January 1884 with a capacity to refine three million pounds of sugar daily.\n\nIn 1887 H.O. Havemeyer established the Sugar Refineries Company, known as the Sugar Trust. The late 1870s and 1880s were a time of intense competition in sugar refining, in which the growth of the industry after the Civil War led to overproduction and slim profit margins. Large refineries, such as Havemeyers & Elder, were producing sugar so efficiently and at such great quantity that supply outstripped demand. Refineries were unable to operate at full capacity and many smaller, less efficient refineries failed. In the face of these harsh conditions, the sugar refiners sought to organize in order to control production and pricing. On October 27, 1887, after two years of negotiations, an agreement was reached to combine into a \"trust,\" called the Sugar Refineries Company.\n\nThe legality of the Sugar Trust came before the New York State court in a November 1890 suit, \"People of the State of New York versus the North River Refining Company\".\n\nIn 1887 Havemeyer sought to bring the remaining independent refineries into the Trust. His chief rival on the West Coast was Claus Spreckels, who refused to join the Trust. Using a small California plant that the Sugar Trust had acquired in 1891, Havemeyer began an aggressive price war to put Spreckels out of business. In retaliation Spreckels opened a Philadelphia refinery in 1889, intending to undercut the Trust’s business in the East. A fierce price war continued for two years, until the Trust and Spreckels came to an agreement in 1891: Spreckels sold his Philadelphia refinery to the Trust and the two sides agreed to keep out of each other’s territory.\n\nThe years 1889-1892 were a severely competitive time for the Trust, where the margin between the cost of raw sugar and the price of refined sugar was at its lowest. Alleviation of conditions came when the McKinley Act of 1890 eliminated import duties on raw sugar. Consequently, prices of refined sugar dropped and there resulted an increase in sugar consumption. In spite of intense competition from Spreckels, the Trust saw profits increase, distributed large dividends, and continued to expand.\nIn 1891 Havemeyer moved to acquire the remaining three Philadelphia refineries. The acquisition of E.C. Knight Company, one of the Philadelphia refineries, was challenged by the U. S. government in the landmark case, \"United States v. E. C. Knight Co.\". In 1895 the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Sugar Trust, on the grounds that sugar refining was manufacture, not interstate commerce, and was therefore not under the jurisdiction of the federal government, nor covered by the Sherman Antitrust Act.\n\nIn 1898 John Arbuckle, a coffee merchant and wholesale grocer from Pittsburgh, head of the Coffee Trust, entered the sugar market. Arbuckle had innovated in the automated packaging of his coffee beans and began to repackage sugar, which he bought from the Sugar Trust, to sell alongside his coffee beans. Arbuckle moved to produce his own sugar and built a refinery in Brooklyn. Thereafter Havemeyer and Arbuckle entered into a fierce competition. Havemeyer bought controlling interest in a coffee business, Woolson Spice Company of Toledo, Ohio, in order to undercut Arbuckle's prices. Arbuckle retaliated by lowering prices on the sugar produced at his new refinery. The price war continued for three years. In 1901 the two men came to an agreement to end their costly war.\n\nOn June 12, 1894 H.O. Havemeyer testified before a special committee of senators appointed to investigate the Sugar Trust. He admitted to lobbying on behalf of his interests, which he claimed was within his rights and was common practice. A request was made by a senator to review all the political contributions made by the American Sugar Refining Company in 1892-1893. After seeking counsel, at his next appearance before the committee, Havemeyer declined to submit his company’s books for examination or to answer any further questions. In 1897 Havemeyer was brought to trial for contempt of court for refusing to answer the questions put to him by a committee of the United States Senate investigating the amount of donations his company had made to national and state political campaigns in 1892 and 1893. He was found not guilty and the indictment was dismissed.\n\nAs a result of the Arbuckle price war, the few independent refineries that were built in the 1890s began to experience financial difficulties. Taking advantage of this, H.O. Havemeyer moved to acquire the remaining independent firms: the Mollenhauers Refinery in Brooklyn, National Sugar Company in Yonkers, New York Refining Company in Long Island City. He did so anonymously, using James H. Post, partner in the independent sugar broker firm B. H. Howell, Son & Company. The three refineries were consolidated into the National Sugar Refining Company of New Jersey, with James H. Post as president and B.H. Howell, Son & Company handling the mercantile side of the business. On May 31, 1900, the National Sugar Refining Company of New Jersey was incorporated in New Jersey. Although independent of the Sugar Trust, the American Sugar Refining Company owned half its stock and the National received preferential treatment from the Sugar Trust.\n\nAfter the turn of the century, Havemeyer expanded the Sugar Trust's holdings to the sugar beet industry in the West. In 1902 he consolidated four small Utah factories into the Amalgamated Sugar Company. Also that year, working with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), he revitalized the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company. In 1905 he consolidated a group of small sugar factories in Colorado into the Great Western Sugar Company. The Sugar Trust also acquired an interest in the Michigan Sugar Company, the Continental Sugar Company and a half-interest in Spreckels Beet Sugar Company of California.\n\nIn 1892 Havemeyer made his first investment in Cuban raw sugar by investing in the Trinidad Sugar Company along with Charles H. Senff and Edwin Atkins. In 1906 Havemeyer formed the Cuban American Sugar company, centralizing the management of five Cuban raw sugar manufacturers.\n\nIn November 1907, two weeks before Havemeyer's death, a raid of the docks at the Havemeyer plant in Brooklyn by the U.S. Treasury Department revealed that the scales that were used to weigh incoming raw sugar had been tampered with and the firm had underpaid import duties. Two United States special customs agents, Richard Parr and James O. Brzezinski, tipped off by a disgruntled employee, discovered a concealed spring inserted into the scale which permitted the checker to exert pressure so as to reduce the weight. The criminal case against the American Sugar Refining Company was brought to federal court in New York in 1908 by District Attorney Henry L. Stimson and Felix Frankfurter, and was won by the government in 1909. A civil suit followed to collect custom duties owed to the government. To avoid further litigation and bad publicity, the American Sugar Refining Company agreed to settle the customs fraud case for $2 million in back payment. Individual officers of the American Sugar Refining Company were tried separately for criminal involvement. In 1909 dock foreman Oliver Spitzer was convicted for attempted bribery. Ernest Gerbracht, superintendent, and Charles R. Heike, secretary, and five company checkers were also convicted.\n\nIn March 1870 H.O. Havemeyer married Mary Louise Elder. Mary Louise, known as Louise, was the sister of H.O.’s brother-in-law J. Lawrence Elder. It was a short and unhappy marriage. They were divorced in 1882, with no children.\n\nOn August 22, 1883, H.O. Havemeyer married 28-year-old Louisine W. Elder, the daughter of George W. Elder and Matilda Waldron Elder. The Havemeyers had three children:\n\nAlthough each of the children collected art in their own right, Electra Havemeyer Webb collected on the grand scale of her parents and went on to found a museum to showcase her deep and diverse collections.\n\nH.O. Havemeyer was an amateur violinist. He was a student of noted violinist Frederick Mollenhauer. It was his daily recreation and he would frequently play for three hours a day. H.O. and Louisine Havemeyer held regular Sunday musicales at their home at 1 East 66th Street.\n\nHenry Osborne and other members of the family were major collectors of instruments. Some of the most important instruments they collectively owned were two violins: the 1723 Stradivari 'Kiesewette' (played by Maxim Vengerov, Ilya Gringolts, Stefan Jackiw, Philippe Quint and most recently Augustin Hadelich), 1737 Guarneri 'del Gesù' \"King Joseph\", and three cellos: 1711 Stradivari \"Duport\" (ex-Rostropovich), 1714 Stradivari \"Batta\" (ex-Piatigorsky and most recently on loan to the Metropolitan Museum of Art) and the 1743 Guadagnini \"Havemeyer\".\n\nH.O. Havemeyer's first art purchases were made during his visit in 1876 to the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia with Samuel Colman. He bought carved ivory figures, Japanese lacquered boxes, silk, brocades, and sword guards. Typically his purchases were impulsive, numerous, and deeply personal. Both H.O. and Louisine had distinct tastes for art collecting that largely complemented each other. Both H.O. and Louisine had to be in agreement as to an object's worth for it to enter their now legendary collection. Louisine focused on collecting modern works by European painters, including the then-unappreciated Impressionists. She was most influenced by her close friend Mary Cassatt, who encouraged her to buy works by Edgar Degas and Claude Monet. Louisine would make 33 transatlantic crossings, returning from each major trip with a bounty of great western art.\n\nIn her will, Louisine identified some 142 works as a bequest to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and empowered her children to give the museum's curators free rein. By the time they had finished an inventory of the Havemeyer's three-story Fifth Avenue home 1,967 works would be assimilated into the Met's holdings, identified as the H.O. Havemeyer Collection. The Havemeyer collection is represented throughout the galleries, but notably by the sheer volume of works present in the Impressionist collection. Some choice works from the Havemeyer collection are on view at the Shelburne Museum and the University of Michigan Museum of Art.\n\nIn 1889 H.O. Havemeyer purchased 90 acres on Palmer Hill Road in Greenwich, Connecticut, on which to build a country home. The parcel had been owned by the Palmer and Quintard families for many generations, and was located to the north of Boston Post Road, east of the Mianus River, including 200 virgin acres at Mianus Ridge and Valley. The house was called Hilltop and had a view of Long Island Sound. It was designed by Boston firm Peabody and Stearns, three stories high with numerous facades, high gables, and six large chimneys. Samuel Colman designed the interiors and furnishings. Walls were covered with Japanese papers. The dining room was modeled after 17th Century Dutch paintings. The library was the principal room adorned with bookshelves, paintings and musical instruments. Superintendent James Troy managed the property, which included barns for horses, cows and pigs. The stables complemented the architecture of the house. There were three long greenhouses and acres of fruit trees and vegetable gardens. Figs were grown, as were orchids and gardenias. A grapery produced Concord grapes, both purple and light green, which won prizes at the Madison Square Garden flower show. The head gardener was George Morrow.\n\nIn 1889 the Havemeyers purchased land at the corner of 66th Street and Fifth Avenue and hired architect Charles Coolidge Haight (1841-1917) to design a building for their residence. Built in the Romanesque Revival style, the residence was four stories high with a round turreted bay at the corner. To design the interiors of the home, the Havemeyers hired the interior design firm of Louis Comfort Tiffany and Samuel Colman. Construction of the building was complete in 1890; the interiors were finished by 1892. A work of art in their own right, the interiors were designed as a harmonious environment in which to display the Havemeyers collections of Asian art, Islamic pottery, Dutch and Impressionist paintings.\n\nTiffany and Colman designed every detail of the interior and its furnishings. They were inspired by the exotic cultures of the Near and Far East. Each room was thematically unique and covered with sumptuous materials, such as embroidered silks and Tiffany-designed glass tiles. Many of the materials used, including in the leaded-glass windows, light fixtures, mosaics and balustrades. were fabricated at the Tiffany Glass and Decorating Co., and the interiors displayed Tiffany’s \"genius as a colorist and a luminist.\" Islamic-themed mosaics covered the walls of the front hall. Chinese embroidered silk hangings covered the walls of the reception room. Japanese silk brocade panels were assembled by Coleman from the pieces Havemeyer had bought from the Centennial Exhibition in 1876. These fabric panels adorned the ceiling in H.O. Havemeyer’s library, which was called the Rembrandt Room as it housed his collection of Dutch paintings. In the music room, where the Sunday musicales were held, walls were hung with Chinese embroideries and lit by a magnificent Tiffany-designed chandelier, inspired by the wildflower Queen Anne’s lace and made of clusters of opalescent blown-glass balls. The most spectacular element of the home was the flying staircase, inspired by that of Venice’s Doge’s Palace. It connected a balcony that circled the upper half of the two-story picture gallery to the room below. Suspended from the ceiling by sparkling chains and fringed with crystal, the stairs floated on a curved piece of cast iron and would tinkle when crossed. The house was torn down after Louisine Havemeyer’s death in 1929. Some parts of the house are in the collection of the University of Michigan Museum of Art.\n\nThe carriage house and stables were located at 126 East 66th Street, west of Third Avenue, designed in 1895 by H.O. Havemeyer’s cousin William J. Wallace and S.E. Gage and later owned by John Hay Whitney.\n\nThe Havemeyers spent the months of July and August in Islip, Long Island, where H.O. Havemeyer sailed on the Great South Bay. In 1890 they bought property on St. Mark’s Lane in Islip, Long Island, next door to Louisine Havemeyer’s sister and brother-in-law, Adaline and Samuel T. Peters. In 1900 the Havemeyers moved into the Bayberry Point community that H.O. had developed, occupying the southwesterly house. Havemeyer owned a Herreshoff 30 named \"Electra\" which he raced in the Great South Bay.\n\nHavemeyer purchased 500 acres in Commack, Long Island, neighboring the racetrack of Carll S. Burr, who was engaged in breeding and training of trotting horses. Havemeyer was an avid hunter of ducks and other game birds. He owned a large stable of trotting horses and established a pheasant shooting preserve on land nearby.\n\nHavemeyer was a trustee of the American Museum of Natural History He and his brothers gave Havemeyer Hall for a School of Mines to Columbia University as a memorial for their father Frederick C. Havemeyer Jr. who studied at Columbia College from 1821-1823. Havemeyer gave a school to the Town of Greenwich, Connecticut.\n\nH.O. Havemeyer died on December 4, 1907, at Merrivale Farm in Commack, Long Island, after a sudden illness. He was at Merrivale Farm with his son Horace for a Thanksgiving visit to shoot pheasant; his wife Louisine remained in New York City to be by her dying mother’s bedside. After Thanksgiving lunch, Havemeyer was stricken with acute indigestion. The local doctor was called, but could not help. His wife and daughter Electra arrived the next morning with three New York City doctors; however, Havemeyer was beyond help. He lived for five days before dying at 3 p.m. on December 4. The cause of death is thought to be peritonitis, as a consequence of undetermined digestive failure, and subsequent kidney failure. Funeral services were held at his home at 1 East 66th Street officiated by Rev. Dr. R. Heber Newton, an Episcopalian minister. Havemeyer was buried at Green-Wood Cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31549349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31549349", "title": "Jagan Institute of Management Studies", "text": "Jagan Institute of Management Studies\n\nJagan Institute of Management Studies, Sector-5, Rohini is a business school in Northern India. It imparts professional education both at undergraduate level and postgraduate level in the fields of management and technology. It was established in 1993.\n\n\nJIMS group has started two Universities. One is in Jaipur and another one is at State Highway 22 (Haryana). Total ten educational College and Universities are running under Jagan Nath Gupta educational Society..\n\nThe institute is located in Rohini, in north-west part of Delhi. \n\n"}
{"id": "31481752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31481752", "title": "Junior Achievement of South Florida", "text": "Junior Achievement of South Florida\n\nJunior Achievement (JA) was founded in 1919 by Theodore Vail, president of American Telephone & Telegraph; Horace Moses, president of Strathmore Paper Co.; and Senator Murray Crane of Massachusetts. Its first program, The Company Program, was offered to high school students on an after-school basis. In 1975, the organization entered the classroom with the introduction of Project Business for the middle grades. Since then, Junior Achievement has gradually expanded its activities and broadened its scope to encompass an ever-widening student population.\n\nJunior Achievement of South Florida was founded locally in 1959 by the Fort Lauderdale Rotary Club and served just 373 high school students during its first year. Programs now span grades K-12, with age appropriate curricula designed to teach elementary students about their roles as individuals, workers, and consumers and to prepare middle grade and high school students for key economic and workforce issues they will face. Junior Achievement programs reached 44,000 Broward and South Palm Beach County students during the 2009-2010 school year.\n\nJunior Achievement of South Florida offers age-appropriate curricula to ensure that students understand their roles as future members of the business community. The programs are divided into three categories: elementary, middle school and high school.\n\nThe elementary school programs include six sequential themes for kindergarten through fifth-grade students and one capstone experience. Students learn the basic concepts of business and economics and how education is relevant to the workplace. The activities build on studies from each preceding grade and prepare students for secondary school and continued learning. Fifth graders can have the opportunity to work at JA BizTown, a facility on the Broward College campus.\n\nThe middle school programs emphasize the value of workforce readiness, entrepreneurship, and financial literacy. Students are also introduced to many economic concepts and facts about the working world.\n\nThe programs in this level expand upon the concepts that were learned in elementary school and help teens make good decisions about their futures. Junior Achievement’s lessons are meant to supplement standard social studies curricula and develop communication skills. 8th graders have the opportunity to work beyond JA BizTown to JA Finance Park, also on the Broward College campus.\n\nThe high school programs teach students about concepts relating to entrepreneurship, financial literacy, and work readiness. Students are encouraged to make informed decisions about their future, and foster skills that will be useful in the business world. Volunteers aid in these goals by bringing real-life business experience into the classroom, which reinforce the lessons that are taught.\n\nSince its inception, Junior Achievement has been committed to \"experiential learning.\" Taking it to the next level, Junior Achievement of South Florida created the JA World Huizenga center at Broward College that houses two new programs: JA BizTown and JA Finance Park. This dramatic shift forward will significantly transform how every local student is taught to view the world of work, free enterprise and their possibilities for success in it. Through the experiential learning derived from both BizTown and Finance Park, students achieve advanced levels of engagement, reflection, and personal responsibility.\n\nJA BizTown is a miniature city that allows fifth-graders the opportunity to assume roles as proprietors, civic leaders, and consumers. It greatly increases students’ knowledge of the free enterprise system as they learn how to fulfill the goals of satisfying customers, paying-off business loans, and realizing a profit at the conclusion of the business day.\n\nJA Finance Park expands upon the lessons learned in JA BizTown by giving students an identity to manage that includes marital status, number of children, annual income, education attained, and job type. Students take these characteristics into consideration as they prepare budgets that take into consideration housing, food, furniture, insurance, education, automobiles, investments, and more. Providing a real life experience of managing an income and learning to live within your means offers a strong and important lesson on the value of staying in school to maximize earning potential.\n\n"}
{"id": "11098892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11098892", "title": "Kailash Chandra Mishra", "text": "Kailash Chandra Mishra\n\nDr Kailash Chandra Mishra is known as a management teacher, orator, researcher and writer. He relocated from the Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management, Delhi to take over as the first Vice Chancellor of Sri Sri University in Orissa founded by Sri Sri Ravishankar with patronage from Government of Odisha. The saga of his institution building is not without hurdles but the final outcome is in the interest of society.\n\nHis books include \"The Game is changing: Insurance Reloaded\"; \"Insurance Demystified: Reading beyond the lexicon\"; \"Medical Informatics: An exploration\"; \"Finance for family managed business and Financial Management: In the era of reforms\". He is a newspaper columnist and used to write a column every Saturday in DNA – Money – Comments. He has more than three hundred published papers in various national and international management journals. In 2008 he has published eight textbooks through Cengage learning (Previously Thomson learning) in New Delhi. These books include: \"Insurance Business Environment and Insurance Company operations\"; \"Life Insurance : Principles & Practice\"; \"General Insurance : Principles & Practice\"; \"Financial Management & Insurance Accounting\"; \"Elements of Actuarial Science\"; \"Legal & Regulatory Aspects of Insurance\"; \"Basics of Personal Financial Planning\"; and \"Life Insurance Underwriting\". Each of these books was coauthored by one of his doctoral students or management associates. He has also published in 2008 two other books through ICFAI Publication, namely \"Enjoying IIT-Jee\" and Organizational Adaptation – A tag study of General Insurance TAC in India\". In April 2011 he gave the ninth Odisha Swaviman Lecture \"Orissa Civil Society Begs for a Shake\", which was published as an Oriya book by the NGO \"Āma Oḍishā\" in Bhubaneswar.\n\nHe is credited with creating cited management frameworkslike \"Mishra's Seven A framework of insurance management\", first published in his book \"Insurance Reloaded\" ICFAI Publication, Hyderabad, India, \"APES framework for insurance organization\", first published in USA, Chamber and Partners' journal \"Mondaq.com\", \"Mishra theory of preference dynamics in investment\", first cited in his D.Litt. thesis \"Mutual Funds in the emerging market\", \"Seven P framework of underwriting\", first published in \"Asia Insurance Post, Mumbai, india and \"3L framework of retrocession planning\", first published in the journal \"Bima Quest\", Pune, India.\n\nIn various management schools he has founded, he has introduced some extramurals like BEAD (Business Etics Advancement and Development), MID (Management Intrapreneurship Development), STUDENT (Structuring The Unstructured by Discussion, Evolution, Negotiation and Training), POY (Power of You) and INLAB (Insurance Laboratory). At SPJIMR, ASCI and NIASOM, he introduced the concept of self-audit for management students – where the students takes responsibility for a part of his syllabus, topic, teacher, examination and examiner. Students' participation in management of business school is his avowed ideal. When enquired as to why he has not started any further experimentation at Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management (LBSIM), of which he was the Director, he has an interesting response. Lal Bahadur Shastri's Himalayan legacy runs at LBSIM. Lal Bahadur Shastri was known for his simplicity, honesty, integrity and assertiveness. Anyone understanding these values and internalizing the principles as a way of life does not need any further extramurals. At Sri Sri University he has introduced a concept for management students called ADLOP (Assessment and Development of Leadership and Outreach Potential).\n\nBy qualification he is MSc in solid-state physics with three gold medals, MBA, CAIIB and Doctor of Literature (D.Litt)in Financial Management. In 2001, International Biographer's Association gave him the Best Citizen of India award (he was one of the ten recipients).\n\nHe has contributed largely to organizations like Bank of India, S P Jain Institute of Management and Research, Administrative Staff College of India, National Insurance Academy, Loss Prevention Association of India, Maharashtra State Cooperative Deposit Guarantee Corporation, Unit Trust of India Asset Management Company, UTI Ventures and Doha Bank Assurance Company. He has been a visiting Professor at international universities like Columbia University, University of Connecticut, CPCU Atlanta, Wharton's Aresty Business School, Yale University, S P JAIN CENTER OF MANAGEMENT (Dubai & Singapore), and Manchester Business School, among others. He took charge of first whistle blowing Ombudsperson of Mutual Funds at UTI. He was appointed by Government of India to be a special invitee equivalent of a Board member for CAG Audit of PSU Insurance Companies – the finding is available at CAG website as submitted to the President of India. Another institution he holds is Technical Director of Doha Bank Assurance Company and Audit Committee Chairman of the company, which is regulated by Qatar Financial Services Authority (QFSA). He was also technical director of a venture capital company at Bengaluru (UVS) and advisor to the chairman situated in UK of one of the largest MNC intermediary Marsh with office in India. He is an expert committee member of EPFO for pension reforms and is also associated with RBI and SEBI in regulatory best practices. This makes him one of the most versatile experts in financial sector of India. As the Director of LBSIM, he also used to oversee other activities associated with Lal Bahadur Shastri Trust, most important of which is Lal Bahadur Shastri Research Centre (LBSRC) undertaking public policy research both at National and international levels. He is engaged in establishing Sri Sri University in Orissa which is declared by the spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar to recreate the ethos of ancient Indian Universities like Nalanda and Rajgiri with Modern teaching learning facilities.\n\nDr Mishra is from a village called Sriramachandrapur in Puri, a district of Orissa. Currently he advises several ministries of the Government of India and he has advised eight different ministries of the Government of India in the past. His concern for Micro finance and micro-insurance have been his strongest points apart from professional management education. In May 2008 Dr Mishra was appointed as a member of Planning Commission of India subgroup on Weather Insurance for Agriculture. As first vice chancellor of Sri Sri University, he has a task to recreate the ethos of ancient Indian Universities like Nalanda and Rajgiri as per vision enunciated by the spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar.\n\nDr Mishra has the privilege of initiating LBS National award for 2009 on behalf of Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management for Excellence in Public Administration, Academics and Management started in the nineties by the initiative of former union minister Mr Anil shastri, the son of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri. The picture here shows Dr Mishra requesting the President of India to bestow the award for 2009 to Mr Sunil Bharti Mittal, the owner of largest telecom company in India.\n\nOne of the greatest national effort in India for ensuring inclusiveness in growth and providing much needed rural employment is MahaNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act). On 3 February 2010 Dr K C Mishra organized the submission of NREGA research report to the Vice President of India Mr Hamid Ansari.\n\nDr Shashi Tharoor, Former Union State External Affairs Minister of India discusses the developmental role of India in ensuring Regional peace and prosperity. Sharing the dias are Mr Anil Shastri, Mr Sunil Shastri and Dr K C Mishra.\n\nLal Bahadur Shastri was second prime minister of India. LBS National Award is given every year at President's House of India a day before birth day of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. Tenth LBS National Award was conferred on Mrs Aruna Roy, the pioneer for Right to Information Act and activist for woman empowerment in rural India as also ensuring food security for poor. Dr K C Mishra conducts the function in President's House on 1 October 2010.\n\nAfter bowing to the President of India Dr Mishra seeks President's permission to initiate the national award function:\n\n10th LBS National Awardee Mrs Aruna Roy delivers the acceptance speech with President Mrs Pratibha Patil, Anil Shastri (Son of Lal Bahadur Shastri), Christy Fernandes (Secretary to President) and Dr Kailash Chandra Mishra are in dias;\n\nPresident of India offers photo opportunity to National Awardee with Dr Kailash Chandra Mishra and Mr Anil Shastri as dignitaries look on:\n\nNational Insurance Academy bids farewell to Silver Jublee with the visit of the then President of India Dr A P J Abdul Kalam who is led to the Open Air Theatre by Dr K C Mishra as the then Director:\n\nSilver Jublee speech by Dr K C Mishra appraised by President Dr Abdul Kalam, the then Chief Minister of Maharashtra Vilas Rao Deshmukh and others:\n\nDr K C Mishra in an intimate discussion with the then President of India Dr Abdul Kalam:\n\nDr K C Mishra receives blessings of the Dalai Lama on 7 January 2011 at National Museum, Delhi:\n\nDalai Lama received by dignitaries – Dr K C Mishra says namaskar:\n\nPresident of India Smt Prativa Devi Patil and Chief Minister of Delhi Smt Sheila Dikhsit inaugurated Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management, Dwarka Campus on 23 February 2011 five days before Dr K C Mishra relinquished the Directorship of the Institute to pursue a career aimed at setting up a spiritually robust University in Orissa sponsored by the Spiritual Leader Sri Sri Ravishankar.\n\nA picture of Dr K C Mishra and his spouse with Chief Minister of Delhi Smt Sheila Dikshit to peruse a show on life and times of Second Prime Minister of India Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri\n\nA picture of Dr K C Mishra with spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar and former WIPRO COO Dr A L Rao announcing the developments of Sri Sri University\n\nA picture of Dr K C Mishra with spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar of Art of Living fame at Sri Sri University where Dr Mishra's spouse is also present\n\n"}
{"id": "2894303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2894303", "title": "Lapo Elkann", "text": "Lapo Elkann\n\nLapo Edovard Elkann (born 7 October 1977) is an Italian businessman and grandson of Gianni Agnelli, the former controlling CEO and controlling shareholder of Fiat Automobiles.\n\nA member of the Agnelli family, Elkann was born in New York City, the son of Countess Margherita Agnelli de Pahlen and the American-born Italian writer Alain Elkann. His father is Jewish and his mother is Catholic. He is the brother of John Elkann, the current chairman of Fiat and the chairman and CEO of Exor, an investment company controlled by the Agnelli family, which owns Juventus F.C.. Elkann is a grandson of Fiat chairman Gianni Agnelli and Marella Agnelli. He is nephew of Don Carlo Caracciolo, founder of Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso - owner of the newspaper \"la Repubblica\", the Italian daily general-interest newspaper. Elkann is also a stepson of Russian nobleman Count Sergei de Pahlen. \n\nIn addition to his brother John, Elkann has a sister, Ginevra Elkann, and five half-siblings by his mother's second marriage (Maria, Pierre, Sophia, Anna, and Tatiana). He is also a great-grandnephew of Ettore Ovazza, of the Ovazza banking family, via his grandmother, Carla Ovazza.\n\nIn 2001, Elkann worked as a personal assistant to Henry Kissinger, subsequently working as marketing associate for Ferrari and Maserati. In 2003, he became Fiat's director of marketing. He coordinated marketing for the Fiat Punto and Fiat 500.\n\nElkann left Fiat in 2005 after being widely reported as having a serious cocaine and heroin overdose, creating Italia Independent, a lifestyle and clothing brand featuring Italian products. In 2007 he founded Independent Ideas, a communication and advertising agency.\n\nIn 2011, Elkann worked with Gucci's creative director, Frida Giannini, on developing the Gucci Special Edition of the Fiat 500 and has consulted with Ferrari, running \"Ferrari Tailor Made\", which enables customers to customize their car.\nStill in 2011 Italia Independent and ToyWatch of Gianluca Vacchi presented a special edition of 1007 copies of watches called Unique Edition.\n\nIn June 2013 Elkann listed Italia Independent on the Milan Stock Exchange. He and his brother John had to reinvest in Italia Independent in 2017 after its share price plunged from €40 to €4.4 following disappointing sales and mismanagement.\n\nIn October 2006, Mark Seal wrote in \"Vanity Fair\" that Elkann \"had been found naked and unconscious in the apartment of Donato Broco, a 53-year-old transsexual prostitute known as Patrizia.\" He was brought to the hospital, where he was in a coma for three days. Police investigated him at the time for cocaine use and soliciting prostitution.\n\nOn November 27, 2016 in New York, Elkann was arrested for making a false police report claiming that he had been unlawfully imprisoned. He had previously contacted his family, stating that he would \"be harmed\" if they did not pay a $10,000 ransom. He was accompanied by a transsexual escort who was also arrested. Charges against the escort were later dropped.\n\n\"Vanity Fair\" magazine listed Elkann in its International Best Dressed List in 2008, and added him to its Best Dressed Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\nLapo Elkann is an art lover with an impressive collection of contemporary art including original paintings by Andy Warhol, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Damien Hirst, Roy Lichtenstein and rising contemporary artists including British artists Teddy M and Ian Berry who made his portrait out of denim.\n\n"}
{"id": "47432979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47432979", "title": "Leads and lags", "text": "Leads and lags\n\nIn international finance, leads and lags refer to the expediting or delaying, respectively, of settlement of payments or receipts in a foreign exchange transaction because of an expected change in exchange rates. A change in exchange rates can be a cause of loss (or gain) in international trade, thus the settlement of debts is expedited or delayed in an attempt to minimize the loss or to maximize the gain. In the leads and lags, the premature payment for goods purchased is called a \"lead,\" while the delayed payment is called a \"lag.\"\n\nA change in exchange rates can be a cause of loss (or gain) in international trade. For example, now, we suppose that the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate is 1.00 (€1.00 buys one dollar). In addition, we suppose that an importer of U.S. buys goods for €1000 from a European exporter and the U.S. importer will pay the money 1 month later. If the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate is 2.00 one month later, the U.S. importer must prepare €1000 with $2000 in the foreign exchange market for the payment. On the other hand, If the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate is 0.50 one month later, the U.S. importer is able to prepare €1000 with $500 for the payment.\nThus, if a rise in the exchange rates is expected in the future, the buyer may delay the payment of goods because such a delay can make purchasing the goods less costly. Conversely, if a decline in the exchange rates is expected in the future, the buyer may pay ahead of time to minimize the loss.\n"}
{"id": "37132851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37132851", "title": "List of bottle types, brands and companies", "text": "List of bottle types, brands and companies\n\nThis is a list of bottle types, brands and companies. A bottle is a rigid container with a neck that is narrower than the body, and a \"mouth\". Bottles are often made of glass, clay, plastic, aluminum or other impervious materials, and are typically used to store liquids. The bottle has developed over millennia of use, with some of the earliest examples appearing in China, Phoenicia, Rome and Crete. Bottles are often recycled according to the SPI recycling code for the material. Some regions have a container deposit which is refunded after returning the bottle to the retailer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13139134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13139134", "title": "List of counseling topics", "text": "List of counseling topics\n\nCounseling is the activity of the counselor, or a professional who counsels people, especially on personal problems and difficulties.\n\nThis is a list of counseling topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "52126079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52126079", "title": "Lois Daish", "text": "Lois Daish\n\nLois Dorothy Daish is a New Zealand restaurateur, food writer and cookbook author.\nDaish was born in Wellington, New Zealand and grew up in the suburb of Roseneath. While young, her family moved to New York for two years as her father had a job at the United Nations. This early exposure to American food influenced her interest and taste in food in later years.\n\nIn the 1960s, Daish cooked at the Downstage Theatre, and later worked at a bohemian cafe, The Settlement.\n\nIn the 1970s, Daish wrote articles for a friend's newspaper in the western suburbs of Wellington; most were on town planning issues, but Daish convinced her friend to include a food column and she wrote food articles for the newspaper as well.\n\nIn the 1980s, Daish owned several Wellington restaurants: Number 9 on Bowen St for four years, followed by the Mount Cook Café from 1984 to 1989, and then the Brooklyn Café & Grill. In 1984 she began writing a food column for the \"New Zealand Listener\" magazine. For the first ten years she wrote alternate weeks with Annabel Langbein, and from 1994 she wrote the column every week. She retired from the \"Listener\" in 2009. In 1987, she was a founding member of the New Zealand Guild of Food Writers.\n\n\nIn the 1997 New Year Honours, Daish was made a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit. In 2010, she was elected a life member of the New Zealand Guild of Food Writers.\n"}
{"id": "8751416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8751416", "title": "Mary Wells Lawrence", "text": "Mary Wells Lawrence\n\nMary Wells Lawrence (born Mary Georgene Berg on May 25, 1928 in Youngstown, Ohio, United States) is a retired American advertising executive. She was the founding president of Wells, Rich, Greene, an advertising agency known for its creative work. Lawrence was the first female CEO of a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nIn the late 1940s, Lawrence studied for two years at the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where she met industrial design student Burt Wells. While there she became a member of Kappa Alpha Theta. In 1949, they married and moved to Youngstown, Ohio. She began her advertising career there in 1951, as a copywriter for McKelvey’s department store. She relocated to New York City, where she studied theatre and drama. By 1952, she had become Macy's fashion advertising manager. She divorced Wells that year, only to remarry him in 1954. Lawrence worked as a copywriter and copy group head at McCann Erickson in 1953, later joining the Lennen & Newell advertising agency's \"brain trust.\" In 1957, she began a seven-year tenure at Doyle Dane Bernbach (now DDB Worldwide). In her 2002 book, \"A Big Life in Advertising,\" Lawrence cited DDB partners James Edwin Doyle, Maxwell Dane, and William Bernbach as significant influences on her subsequent career.\n\nLawrence had two daughters with Bert Wells, Pamela and Kathy. She divorced Bert a second time in 1965, and married former Braniff International Airways president Harding Lawrence on November 25, 1967. Mr. Lawrence had four children: sons Harding, Jr., who died in infancy, James B., State R.,and one daughter, Deborah. He died on February 16, 2002 at age 81 of pancreatic cancer.\n\nLawrence went to work for Jack Tinker and his new advertising group, Jack Tinker and Partners. The members of this revolutionary new think tank were dubbed \"Tinker's Thinkers\". The \"Thinkers\" would create ad campaigns for other agencies at Interpublic, a holding company of many US advertising firms. Lawrence had previously worked for Tinker at McCann-Erickson, and was excited to partner with him again. Her star rose in the advertising world with the success of her advertising campaign for Braniff International Airways, \"The End of the Plain Plane\". She hired Alexander Girard as project designer, and designer Emilio Pucci to create new uniforms for the airline's flight attendants and crew. The campaign was lauded as critical to the airline's revolutionary turnaround.\n\nFollowing the success of the Braniff campaign, Lawrence founded Wells Rich Greene on April 5, 1966, and became the agency's president. Partner Richard Rich acted as the agency's treasurer, and Stewart Greene its secretary. Major WRG clients included American Motors, Cadbury Schweppes, IBM, MCI Communications, Pan American World Airways, Trans World Airlines, Procter & Gamble, Ralston Purina, RC Cola, and Sheraton Hotels and Resorts. Braniff remained a Wells Rich Greene client through 1968.\n\nBy 1969, Lawrence was reported to be the highest-paid executive in advertising. She was selected by U.S. Vice President Nelson Rockefeller to be a member of his Commission on Critical Choices for Americans, and was also invited by U.S. President Gerald Ford to represent business at an Economic Summit in Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter Lawrence stepped down as CEO in 1990, the agency was sold to Boulet Dru Dupuy Petit, and became known as Wells Rich Greene BDDP. The agency officially ceased operations in 1998, and donated its archive of print and television ads to Duke University's John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising and Marketing History.\n\nA partial listing of Wells Rich Greene advertising campaigns:\n\nMary Wells Lawrence is one of the five founders of wowOwow, a website created, owned, and written by women for women, which launched on March 8, 2008, International Women's Day. The wOw founders are Joni Evans, Peggy Noonan, Liz Smith, Lesley Stahl, and Mary Wells Lawrence. The WOW contributors are Candice Bergen, Joan Juliet Buck, Joan Ganz Cooney, Joni Evans, Whoopi Goldberg, Judith Martin, Sheila Nevins, Peggy Noonan, Julia Reed, Liz Smith, Lesley Stahl, Marlo Thomas, Lily Tomlin, Jane Wagner, and Mary Wells Lawrence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28846270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28846270", "title": "Mobile business intelligence", "text": "Mobile business intelligence\n\nMobile Business Intelligence (Mobile BI or Mobile Intelligence) is defined as “Mobile BI is a system comprising both technical and organizational elements that present historical and/or real-time information to its users for analysis on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets (not laptops), to enable effective decision-making and management support, for the overall purpose of increasing firm performance.” (Peters et al., 2016). Business intelligence (BI) refers to computer-based techniques used in spotting, digging-out, and analyzing business data, such as sales revenue by products and/or departments or associated costs and incomes.\n\nAlthough the concept of mobile computing has been prevalent for over a decade, Mobile BI has shown a momentum/growth only very recently. This change has been partly encouraged by a change from the ‘wired world’ to a wireless world with the advantage of smartphones which has led to a new era of mobile computing, especially in the field of BI.\n\nAccording to the Aberdeen Group, a large number of companies are rapidly undertaking mobile BI owing to a large number of market pressures such as the need for higher efficiency in business processes, improvement in employee productivity (e.g., time spent looking for information), better and faster decision making, better customer service, and delivery of real-time bi-directional data access to make decisions anytime and anywhere. But despite the apparent advantages of mobile information delivery, mobile BI is still in the ‘early adopter’ phase. Some CFOs remain skeptical of the business benefits and with the perceived lack of specific business use cases and tangible ROI, mobile BI adoption is still behind the curve compared with other enterprise mobile applications.\n\nThe predominant method for accessing BI information is using proprietary software or a Web browser on a personal computer to connect to BI applications. These BI applications request data from databases. Starting in the late 1990s, BI systems offered alternatives for receiving data, including email and mobile devices..\n\nInitially, mobile devices such as pagers and mobile phones received pushed data using a short message service (SMS) or text messages. These applications were designed for specific mobile devices, contained minimal amounts of information, and provided no data interactivity. As a result, the early mobile BI applications were expensive to design and maintain while providing limited informational value, and garnered little interest.\n\nThe mobile browser on a smartphone, a handheld computer integrated with a mobile phone, provided a means to read simple tables of data. The small screen space, immature mobile browsers, and slow data transmission could not provide a satisfactory BI experience.\nAccessibility and bandwidth may be perceived as issues when it comes to mobile technology, but BI solutions provide advanced functionality to predict and outperform such potential challenges. While Web-based mobile BI solutions provide little to no control over the processing of data in a network, managed BI solutions for mobile devices only utilize the server for specific operations. In addition, local reports are compressed both during transmission and on the device, permitting greater flexibility for storage and receipt of these reports. Within a mobile environment, users capitalize on easy access to information because the mobile application operates within a single authoring environment that permits access to all BI content (respecting existing security) regardless of language or locale. Furthermore, the user will not need to build and maintain a separate mobile BI deployment. In addition, mobile BI requires much less bandwidth for functionality. Mobile BI promises a small report footprint on memory, encryption during transmission as well as on the device, and compressed data storage for offline viewing and use.\n\nIn 2002, Research in Motion released the first BlackBerry smartphone optimized for wireless email use. Wireless e-mail proved to be the “killer app” that accelerated the popularity of the smartphone market. By the mid-2000s, Research in Motion’s BlackBerry had solidified its hold on the smartphone market with both corporate and governmental organizations. The BlackBerry smartphones eliminated the obstacles to mobile business intelligence. The BlackBerry offered a consistent treatment of data across its many models, provided a much larger screen for viewing data, and allowed user interactivity via the thumbwheel and keyboard. BI vendors re-entered the market with offerings spanning different mobile operating systems (BlackBerry, Windows, Symbian) and data access methods. The two most popular data access options were:\n\nResearch in Motion is continuing to lose market share to Apple and Android smartphones. In the first three months of 2011 Google’s Android OS gained 7 points of market share. During the same time period RIM’s market share collapsed and dropped almost 5 points.\n\nApple quickly set the standard for mobile devices with the introduction of the iPhone. In the first three years, Apple sold over 33.75 million units. Similarly, in 2010, Apple sold over 1 million iPads in just under three months. Both devices feature an interactive touchscreen display that is the de facto standard on many mobile phones and tablet computers.\n\nIn 2008, Apple published the SDK for which developers can build applications that run natively on the iPhone and iPad instead of Safari-based applications. These native applications can give the user a robust, easier-to-read and easier-to-navigate experience.\n\nOthers were quick to join in the success of mobile devices and app downloads. The Google Play Store now has over 700,000 apps available for the mobile devices running the Android operating system.\n\nMore importantly, the advent of the mobile device has radically changed the way people use data on their mobile devices. This includes mobile BI. Business intelligence applications can be used to transform reports and data into mobile dashboards, and have them instantly delivered to any mobile device.\n\nGoogle Inc.’s Android has overtaken Apple Inc.’s iOS in the wildly growing arena of app downloads. In the second quarter of 2011, 44% of all apps downloaded from app marketplaces across the web were for Android devices while 31% were for Apple devices, according to new data from ABI Research. The remaining apps were for various other mobile operating systems, including BlackBerry and Windows Phone 7.\n\nMobile BI applications have evolved from being a client application for viewing data to a purpose-built application designed to provide information and workflows necessary to quickly make business decisions and take action.\n\nIn early 2011, as the mobile BI software market started to mature and adoption started to grow at a significant pace in both small and large enterprises, most vendors adopted either a purpose-built, device-specific application strategy (e.g. iPhone or Android apps, downloaded from iTunes or the Google Play Store) or a web application strategy (browser-based, works on most devices without an application being installed on the device). This debate continues and there are benefits and drawbacks to both methods. One potential solution will be the wider adoption of HTML5 on mobile devices which will give web applications many of the characteristics of dedicated applications while still allowing them to work on many devices without an installed application.\n\nMicrosoft has announced their mobile BI strategy. Microsoft plans to support browser-based applications such as Reporting Services and PerformancePoint on iOS in the first half of 2012 and touch-based applications on iOS and Android by the second half of 2012. \nDespite popular perception that Microsoft only acknowledges its own existence, recent moves suggest the company is aware that it is not the only player in the technology ecosystem. Instead of attempting to squelch competition or suggesting new technology developments were ridiculous, the company has instead decided to make its technology accessible to a wider audience.\n\nThere are many mobile devices and platforms available today. The list is constantly growing and so is the platform support. There are hundreds of models available today, with multiple hardware and software combinations. The enterprise must select a device very carefully. The target devices will impact the mobile BI design itself because the design for a smartphone will be different than for a tablet. The screen size, processor, memory, etc. all vary. The mobile BI program must account for lack of device standardization from the providers by constantly testing devices for the mobile BI apps.\nSome best practices can always be followed. For example, a smartphone is a good candidate for operational mobile BI. However, for analytics and what-if analysis, tablets are the best option. Hence, the selection or availability of the device plays a big role in the implementation.\n\nGartner analyst Ted Friedman believes that mobile delivery of BI is all about practical, tactical information needed to make immediate decisions – \"The biggest value is in operational BI — information in the context of applications — not in pushing lots of data to somebody's phone.\"\n\nAccessing the Internet through a mobile device such as a smartphone is also known as the mobile Internet or mobile Web. IDC expects the US mobile workforce to increase by 73% in 2011. Morgan Stanley reports the mobile Internet is ramping up faster than its predecessor, the desktop Internet, enabling companies to deliver knowledge to their mobile workforce to help them make more profitable decisions.\n\nMichael Cooney from Gartner has identified bring-your-own-technology at work as becoming the norm, not the exception. By 2015 media tablet shipments will reach around 50% of laptop shipments and Windows 8 will likely be in third place behind Android and Apple. The net result is that Microsoft’s share of the client platform, be it PC, tablet or smartphone, will likely be reduced to 60% and it could fall below 50%.\n\nIn its latest Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence Platforms, Gartner examines whether the platform enables users to \"fully interact with BI content delivered to mobile devices.\" The phrase \"fully interact\" is the key. The ability to send alerts embedded in email or text messages, or links to static content in email messages hardly represents sophistication in mobile analytics. \nFor users to benefit from mobile BI, they must be able to navigate dashboard and guided analytics comfortably—or as comfortably as the mobile device will allow, which is where devices with high-resolution screens and touch interfaces (like the iPhone and Android-based phones) have a clear edge over, say, earlier editions of BlackBerry. \nIt is equally important to take a step back to define your purpose and adoption patterns. Which business users can benefit the most from mobile analytics—and what, exactly, is their requirement? You don't need mobile analytics to send a few alerts or summary reports to their handhelds—without interactivity, mobile BI is indistinguishable from merely informative email or text messages.\n\nSimilar to consumer applications, which have shown an ever-increasing growth over the past few years, a constant demand for anytime, anywhere access to BI is leading to a number of custom mobile application development. Businesses have also started adopting mobile solutions for their workforce and are soon becoming key components of core business processes. In an Aberdeen survey conducted in May 2010, 23% of companies participating indicated that they now have a mobile BI app or dashboard in place, while another 31% indicated that they plan to implement some form of mobile BI in the next year.\n\nMobile BI applications can be defined/segregated as follows:\n\n\nCompanies across all verticals, from retail to even non-profit organizations are realizing the value of purpose-specific mobile applications suited for their mobile workforce.\n\nDeveloping a native mobile BI app poses challenges, especially concerning data display rendering and user interactivity. Mobile BI App development has traditionally been a time-consuming and expensive effort requiring businesses to justify the investment for the mobile workforce. They do not only require texting and alerts, they need information customized for their line of work which they can interact with and analyze to gain deeper information.\n\nMobile BI applications are often custom-coded apps specific to the underlying mobile operating system. For example, the iPhone apps require coding in Objective-C while Android apps require coding in Java. In addition to the user functionality of the app, the app must be coded to work with the supporting server infrastructure required to serve data to the mobile BI app. While custom-coded apps offer near limitless options, the specialized software coding expertise and infrastructure can be expensive to develop, modify, and maintain.\n\nBusiness data can be displayed in a mobile BI client (or web browser) that serves as a user interface to existing BI platforms or other data sources, eliminating the need for new master sources of data and specialized server infrastructure. This option offers fixed and configurable data visualizations such as charts, tables, trends, KPIs, and links, and can usually be deployed quickly using existing data sources. However, the data visualizations are not limitless and cannot always be extended to beyond what is available from the vendor.\n\nMobile BI apps can also be developed using the graphical, drag-and-drop development environments of BI platforms. The advantages including the following:\n\n\nUsing graphical BI development tools can allow faster mobile BI app development when a custom application is required.\n\nHigh adoption rates and reliance on mobile devices makes safe mobile computing a critical concern. The Mobile Business Intelligence Market Study discovered that security is the number one issue (63%) for organizations.\n\nA comprehensive mobile security solution must provide security at these levels:\n\n\nA senior analyst at the Burton Group research firm recommends that the best way to ensure data will not be tampered with is to not store it on the client device (mobile device). As such, there is no local copy to lose if the mobile device is stolen and the data can reside on servers within the data center with access permitted only over the network. Most smartphone manufacturers provide a complete set of security features including full-disk encryption, email encryption, as well as remote management which includes the ability to wipe contents if device is lost or stolen. Also, some devices have embedded third-party antivirus and firewall software such as RIM's BlackBerry.\n\nTransmission security refers to measures that are designed to protect data from unauthorized interception, traffic analysis, and imitative deception. These measures include Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), iSeries Access for Windows, and virtual private network (VPN) connections. A secure data transmission should enable the identity of the sender and receiver to be verified by using a cryptographic shared key system as well as protect the data to be modified by a third party when it crosses the network. This can be done using AES or Triple DES with an encrypted SSL tunnel.\n\nAuthorization refers to the act of specifying access rights to control access of information to users. Authentication refers to the act of establishing or confirming the user as true or authentic. Network security refers to all the provisions and policies adopted by the network administrator to prevent and monitor unauthorized access, misuse, modification, or denial of the computer network and network-accessible resources. The mobility adds to unique security challenges. As data is trafficked beyond the enterprise firewall towards unknown territories, ensuring that it is handled safely is of paramount importance. Towards this, proper authentication of user connections, centralized access control (like LDAP Directory), encrypted data transfer mechanisms can be implemented.\n\nTo ensure high security standards, BI software platforms must extend the authentication options and policy controls to the mobile platform. Business intelligence software platforms need to ensure a secure encrypted keychain for storage of credentials. Administrative control of password policies should allow creation of security profiles for each user and seamless integration with centralized security directories to reduce administration and maintenance of users.\n\nA number of BI vendors and niche software vendors offer mobile BI solutions. Some notable examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "46856568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46856568", "title": "Monsieur Amon", "text": "Monsieur Amon\n\nAmon Fasileau-Duplantier, known as Monsieur Amon (22 December 1849 – 24 February 1915), was a French coffee and urban real estate entrepreneur established in Costa Rica. Monsieur Amon commercial activities had a deep impact on the Costa Rican society of the latest 19th century due to the foundation of San José's Belle Époque neighborhood which carries his name today as the Barrio Amón. The image of Monsieur Amon is associated to Costa Rican coffee golden age.\n\nMonsieur Amon was born in Bordeaux. He arrived to Costa Rica in his mid-twenties to work in The Tournon Company, owned by his brother- in-law, Mr. Hippolyte Tournon. The company already produced and exported coffee; Monsieur Amon was entrusted to manage the firm and became a respected local figure with a key influence in the social and economic spheres. He started the diversification to urban real estate and electricity production at the time Minor Keith developed similar activities, leveraging the Atlantic railroad construction and growing banana trade. Monsieur Amon left Costa Rica to France in 1899 after being replaced by his nephew, and son of Mr. Hippolyte Tournon: Elois Tournon, as the head of the Tournon Company.\n\nLemistre, Annie. “Amon El Incognito\". First Edition. San José, Costa Rica. May 2015.\n"}
{"id": "51556806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51556806", "title": "Nonkululeko Gobodo", "text": "Nonkululeko Gobodo\n\nNonkululeko Gobodo (born 10 October 1960, Mthatha, Eastern Cape) became the first black female Chartered Accountant in South Africa in 1987.\n\nShe founded the accountancy firm Gobodo Incorporated which in 2011 merged with SizweNtsaluba VSP to form SizweNtsalubaGobodo, South Africa's largest black-owned accountancy firm. In 2014 she stepped down from the role of executive chair of the company.\n"}
{"id": "38069993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38069993", "title": "Pascal Cagni", "text": "Pascal Cagni\n\nPascal Cagni is a French business leader best known for his years as Vice-President of Apple Europe, Middle East, India and Africa from 2000, when he was recruited by Steve Jobs, to 2012. He is today CEO at C4 Ventures, the venture capital fund he created in 2014. In 2017, he was appointed by French President Emmanuel Macron Chairman of the Board of Business France and Ambassador to international investments.\n\nPascal Cagni was born in Cernay (Haut-Rhin), France on October 28, 1961.\n\nHe graduated from Sciences Po Paris in Political Sciences (1984), MBA HEC Paris (1986) and the Robert Schumann University in Strasburg in business law (1984).\n\nPascal Cagni also attended the Stanford Executive Program for Growing Companies (EPCG) in 1997 and the 63rd promotion of the Institut des Hautes Études de Défense Nationale (IHEDN) in 2010.\n\nHe is married and has four children: Inès, Diane, Paul, Charles.\n\nIn 1986, Pascal Cagni joined Booz Allen & Hamilton in Paris and San Francisco, as a management consultant, prior to joining Compaq France as Marketing Manager in 1988. \n\nIn 1991, he joined the Software Publishing Corporation (SPC) to establish a new South Europe Division in Nice, before running the European Strategy and Business Development from London.\n\nIn 1995, he was hired by Packard Bell to create new R&D, manufacturing and operational divisions. He established a highly successful pan-European sales and marketing structure, and was promoted to Vice President of Europe for Packard Bell in 1997 after its merger with NEC Computer International.\n\nIn 2000, Steve Jobs hired Pascal Cagni as General Manager and Vice President of Apple Europe, Middle East, India and Africa (EMEIA). Under his 12-year tenure, Apple's EMEIA region consistently delivered the highest revenue growth rates within Apple for several years. Revenue increased from $1.3bn in 2000 to nearly $40bn in 2012.\n\nDuring this time, he strengthened the positioning of the Apple brand by establishing Apple Shops and by creating the Apple Premium Reseller (APR) network, an Apple concept exported all over the world which now represents more than 1,200 stores to date and a turnover superior to $8 billion.\n\nPascal Cagni left Apple on 31st, October 2012.\n\nIn 2014, Pascal Cagni founded C4 Ventures, a European venture capital fund. Based in London and Paris, C4 Ventures invests in early stage (Series A) and later stage startups seeking to expand into European markets. It focuses on partnering with entrepreneurs to navigate the complex European landscape.\n\nC4 Ventures chooses to focus on three investment themes: Smart Hardware, Future of Commerce and Digital Media. Portfolio companies include Anki, Applicaster, Cleeng, Clippings, Formlabs, Foursquare, Graphcore, ISKN, MUBI, Nest, Netatmo, Riskified, Unmade, Upmem, VIA, Remedee and Tempow.\n\nIn addition to his tenure at C4 Ventures, he was appointed in 2017 by French President Emmanuel Macron as Chairman of the Board of Business France and Ambassador to international investments. As such, he was tasked with promoting France as a land of international investment, by regularly explaining the reforms in France, especially during major economic events, maintaining permanent and high-level contacts with foreign investors and liaising with economic and international networks of influence\n\nPascal Cagni is also an independent director at Banque Transatlantique since 2006 and a non-executive director at Kingfisher since 2010.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2017, he was a non-executive Director at Vivendi. Between 2015 and 2017, he was also on the Board of Style.com, a Condé Nast-owned ecommerce platform.\n\nIn 2014, at the request of Natalie Massenet and the Richemont Group, he conducted an in-depth 6 month review of the Net-a-porter group’s operations with a view of joining the company as CEO. This appointment did not materialise when Richemont decided to merge company with the Yoox Group which saw Federico Marchetii assume the CEO role of the merged entities.\n\nHe is a member of the Cercle d’Outre Manche, a society of business leaders committed to promoting best practices in France and the United Kingdom. He was also appointed French Foreign Trade Advisors (CCEF) in 2009.\n\nSince 2014, Pascal Cagni has served as a Commissioner for the Global Commission on Internet Governance (GCIG).\n\nPascal Cagni was made a Knight of the prestigious French Order of Merit in 2006 by Christine Lagarde\n\nThe Cagni Foundation aims at facilitating access for young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to higher education, art and culture.In this regard, Pascal Cagni is a High Benefactor of the HEC Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "56130155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130155", "title": "Pedro Brescia Cafferata", "text": "Pedro Brescia Cafferata\n\nPedro Brescia Cafferata (1921-2014) was a Peruvian businessman. He was the co-chairman of Grupo Breca, a conglomerate founded by his father, and the president of BBVA Continental, a Peruvian bank.\n\nPedro Brescia Cafferata was born in 1921. His father, Fortunato Brescia Tassano, was the Italian-born founder of Grupo Breca, a real estate company-turned-conglomerate. His mother, María Catalina Cafferata Peñaranda, was Peruvian. He had a brother and two sisters, all billionaires.\n\nBrescia Cafferata managed Grupo Breca with his brother Mario. He was also the chairman of the insurance company Rímac Seguros, the bank BBVA Continental, and the fish company Tasa.\n\nBrescia Cafferata died in 2014, at the age of 93.\n"}
{"id": "3692783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3692783", "title": "Product certification", "text": "Product certification\n\nProduct certification or product qualification is the process of certifying that a certain product has passed performance tests and quality assurance tests, and meets qualification criteria stipulated in contracts, regulations, or specifications (typically called \"certification schemes\" in the product certification industry).\n\nMost product certification bodies (or product certifiers) are accredited to ISO/IEC Guide 65:1996, an international standard for ensuring competence in those organizations performing product certifications. The organizations that perform this accreditation are called Accreditation Bodies, and they themselves are assessed by international peers against the ISO 17011 standard. Accreditation bodies that participate in the International Accreditation Forum (IAF) Multilateral Agreement (MLA) also ensure that these accredited Product Certifiers meet additional requirements set forth in \"IAF GD5:2006 - IAF Guidance on the Application of ISO/IEC Guide 65:1996\".\n\nExamples of some certification schemes include the Safety Equipment Institute for protective headgear, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Telecommunication Certification Body (TCB) program for radio communication devices, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star program, the International Commission on the Rules for the Approval of Electrical Equipment Product Safety Certification Body Scheme (IEECE CB Scheme), MAS (Materials Analytical Services) Certified Green IEQ program, and the Greenguard Environmental Institute Indoor Air Quality program. Certification schemes are typically written to include both the performance test methods that the product must be tested to, as well as the criteria that the product must meet to become Certified.\n\nCertifications (and the certificates that document their existence) are often called \"certs\" in the everyday jargon of various industries.\n\nAlso Electrical certifications are very important for professionals. If you are pursuing any degree/diploma in electrical or Automation domain. Here are Worldwide Accepted Electrical Certifications and Standards list.\n\nA product might be verified to comply with a specification or stamped with a specification number. This does not, by itself, indicate that the item is fit for any particular use. The person or group of persons who own the certification scheme (i.e., engineers, trade unions, building code writers, government, industry, etc.) have the responsibility to consider the choice of available specifications, choose the correct ones, set qualification limits, and enforce compliance with those limits. The end users of the product have the responsibility to use the item correctly. Products must be used in accordance with their listing for certification to be effective.\n\nProduct certification is often required in sensitive industry and marketplace areas where a failure could have serious consequences, such as negatively affecting the health and welfare of the people or person using that product. For example, certification is stringent in aerospace applications, since the demands for low weight tend to lead to high stress on components, requiring appropriate metallurgy and accuracy in manufacturing. Other sensitive product area examples include food, pharmaceuticals, healthcare products, dangerous goods, and products that have RF emissions such as computers and cellular telephones.\n\nThe process for certification of a product is generally summed up in four steps:\n\n\nIn many instances, prior to applying for certification, a product supplier will send a product to a testing laboratory (some certification schemes require the product to be sent out for testing by the product certifier instead). When the product to be certified is received at the testing laboratory, it is tested in accordance with the laboratory's internal procedures and with the methods listed in the test standards specified by the certification scheme. The resulting data collected by the testing laboratory, and is then forwarded either back to the manufacturer, or directly to the product certifier.\n\nThe product certifier then reviews the product supplier's application information, including the testing data. If the certifier's evaluation concludes that the test data shows that the product meets all required criteria as listed in the certification scheme, and the decision maker(s) of the product certifier concur with the evaluation, then the product is deemed \"certified\" and is listed in a directory that the Product certifier is required to keep. ISO Guide 65 requires that the final decision to grant or not grant certification be made only by a person or group of persons not involved in the evaluation of the product.\n\nProducts often need periodic recertification, also known as surveillance. This requirement is typically identified within the certification scheme that the product is certified to. Certification bodies may require product suppliers to perform some sort of surveillance activity, such as pulling sample products from the marketplace for testing, in order to maintain their \"listed\" or \"certified\" status. Other examples of Surveillance activities include surprise audits of the manufacturing plant, supervision of the manufacturing and/or testing process, or a simple paperwork submittal from the supplier to the product certifier to ensure that the certified product has not changed. Other causes for recertification may include complaints issued against the product's functionality, which would require removal from the marketplace, and expiration of the original certification. These lists of examples are by no means all inclusive.\n\nSome certification schemes, or the product certifiers that operate those Schemes, may require that the product supplier operate a Quality Management System registered to ISO 9000, or that the testing be performed by a laboratory accredited to ISO 17025. The decision to set these requirements is most often made by the person or group which owns the Certification Scheme.\n\nCertified products are typically endorsed with a certification mark provided by the product certifier. Issuance of a certification mark is at the discretion of the individual product certifier. ISO Guide 65 does not require the product certifier to offer a certification mark in the event that a certificate is offered. When certification marks are issued and used on products, they are usually easy to see and enable users to track down the certification listings to determine the criteria that the product meets, and whether or not the listing is still active.\n\nAn active certification listing must minimally include indication of the following information:\n\nProduct certifiers may choose to include much more information than that listed above, but ISO Guide 65 specifies the bare minimum which must be made available regarding the certification status of a product.\n\nThese listings are typically used by an Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ), such as a municipal building inspector, fire prevention officer, or electrical inspector, to compare the product's use or installation with the intent of the rating by testing. In order to comply with the code, the product listing must be \"active\", as products and companies can become \"de-listed\" due to re-testing showing that a product no longer meets qualification criteria, or a business decision by the manufacturer.\n\nThe widespread availability of the Internet has led to a new kind of certification for websites. Website certifications exist to certify the website's privacy policy, security of their financial transactions, suitability for minors, among many other acceptability characteristics. In broadcast engineering, transmitters and radio antennas often must by certified by the country's broadcasting authority. In the United States, this certification was once called \"type acceptance\" by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and applied to most services except amateur radio due to its inherent homebrew nature. Today the FCC requires all testing of transmitters and antennas to be performed in a laboratory accredited to ISO 17025, with that laboratory being part of the overall organization that houses the Product Certification Body (TCB).\n\nThe International Accreditation Forum (IAF) has a listing of all recognized Accreditation Bodies whose accreditations to the ISO Guide 65 standard are deemed equivalent. From the IAF MLA informational page:\n\nMost countries only have a single Accreditation Body representing their economy in the IAF MLA. The two exceptions are the United States with American National Standards Institute (ANSI), American National Standards Institute - American Society for Quality National Accreditation Board (ANAB, a subdivision of ANSI), American Association for Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA), and International Accreditation Service (IAS) as signatory members, and United Accreditation Foundation as Full Member of IAF (International Accreditation Forum) Europe with Germany's Technischer Überwachungsverein (TÜV), and Korea which is represented by Korea Accreditation Board (KAB) and Korean Accreditation System (KAS). These listings are current as of March 2012, but will likely change in the future as more Accreditation Bodies undergo the required peer evaluations in order to become signatory members of the MLA.\n\nEach Accreditation Body is required to keep a listing of those organizations it accredits, as well as a Scope of Accreditation which details the activities that the organizations can perform, whether that be testing, inspection, or product certification.\n\nAccreditation Bodies routinely audit the Product Certifiers whom they have accredited in order to determine if the performance or actions of the organization have changed and do not meet the requirements of the Accreditation Body and the International Standards they are to conform to.\n\nIts not mandatory for each Accreditation Bodies to be member of IAF or to join IAF in any manner, there have been several accreditation Board like AB-CAB, ESMA, NACI etc.\n\nWithin the European Economic Area (EEA), the majority of products are required to be ‘CE Marked’ and will have the letter CE on them. It shows that the manufacturer or importer has checked that these products meet EU safety, health or environmental requirements; is an indicator of a product’s compliance with EU legislation and allows the free movement of products within the European market.\n\nBy placing the CE marking on a product, a manufacturer or importer is declaring, on his sole responsibility, conformity with all of the legal requirements to achieve CE marking. The manufacturer is thus ensuring validity for that product to be sold throughout the EEA. This also applies to products made in third countries which are sold in the EEA and Turkey.\n\nIf you are a manufacturer it is your responsibility to:\n\n\nIf you are a distributor you must check the presence of both the CE marking and the necessary supporting documentation.\n\nIf you are importing a product that is from a third country you have to check that the manufacturer outside the EU has undertaken the necessary steps. You must check that the documentation is available.\nThe Europa website gives details various product categories and the relevant EU directives to which products must conform.\n\nNorth America's nuclear industry is exempt from mandatory certification. This has allowed situations leading to large amounts of remedial work, especially for fireproofing of electrical circuits (circuit integrity) between nuclear reactor and control rooms in the U.S. In this case, submitors were permitted to dictate not only their test procedures, but also to construct test specimens in their own facilities, prior to fire tests on the part of laboratories. The primary example of this situation is the Thermo-Lag scandal, which came about as a result of disclosures by whistleblower Gerald W. Brown to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as well as watchdog groups, members of US Congress, and the press.\n\nIn Germany, the accredited testing organizations routinely audit manufacturing locations and submit quality control test results to DIBt. While the German laboratories do not possess process standards, their methodology can uncover changes in the nature and quality of ingredients, as DIBt establishes very clear tolerances for performance.\n\nWhere product certification is optional, one must rely on the ethics of the manufacturer that the item being sold is identical to the item that was tested, and that the item that was tested was in fact installed the way the test report reads. The test report by itself also does not afford its bona fide interpretation in terms of the tolerances that a certification listing would provide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840870", "title": "Rising Sun (film)", "text": "Rising Sun (film)\n\nRising Sun is a 1993 American crime film written and directed by Philip Kaufman, starring Sean Connery (who was also an executive producer), Wesley Snipes, Harvey Keitel, and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa. Michael Crichton and Michael Backes wrote the screenplay, based on Crichton's novel of the same name.\n\nDuring a commencement gala at the newly opened Los Angeles headquarters of Nakamoto, a Japanese keiretsu, a call girl named Cheryl Lynn Austin, is found dead, apparently after a violent sexual encounter. Police Detectives Webster \"Web\" Smith and John Connor, a former police captain and expert on Japanese affairs, are sent to act as liaison between the Japanese executives and the investigating officer, Smith's former partner Tom Graham. During the initial investigation, Connor and Smith review surveillance camera footage, and realize that one of the discs is missing.\n\nSmith and Connor suspect Eddie Sakamura, Cheryl's yakuza boyfriend, of killing her, and interrogate him at a house party. Sakamura promises to bring Connor something, and Connor reluctantly lets him go after confiscating his passport. Ishihara, a Nakamoto employee whom Connor had previously interrogated, delivers the missing disc, which clearly shows Sakamura killing Cheryl. Graham and Smith lead a SWAT raid on Sakamura's house. He tries to flee in a sports car, but crashes and is killed.\n\nSmith learns that Sakamura had attempted to contact him about the missing disc, so he and Connor take the disc to an expert, Jingo Asakuma, who reveals that the disc has been digitally altered to implicate Sakamura. \n\nNakamoto is in the midst of sensitive negotiations for the acquisition of an American semiconductor company, with Senator John Morton, a guest at the party, abruptly changing his stance on a bill that would prevent the merger from going through. Suspecting his sudden shift is somehow related to the murder, Connor and Smith attempt to interview him at his campaign office, but without success. Upon returning to Smith's apartment, the duo find Sakamura alive and well. He reveals that he was being tailed that day by Tanaka, a Nakamoto security agent attempting to locate the original disc. Not wanting to be seen with Sakamura, Tanaka stole his sports car and committed suicide by crashing it. Sakamura gives Connor the original disc, but before he can leave, Lt. Graham arrives with Ishihara. Sakamura is killed fighting off Ishihara's men, and Smith is shot and left for dead, surviving only thanks to a bulletproof vest.\n\nAfter being interrogated, Smith is put on paid leave due to an ongoing investigation of an earlier corruption charge. Regrouping with Connor and Jingo, the three view the original surveillance footage, which shows Senator Morton performing erotic asphyxiation on Cheryl. Falsely believing he killed her, Morton changes his position on the regulation bill to stay in Nakamoto's good graces. After leaving the boardroom, the footage shows another figure approaching and killing Cheryl by strangulation.\n\nHoping to draw the killer out, Connor and Smith fax Morton stills of the footage showing his involvement in the murder. Morton contacts Ishihara, revealing the executive to be in on the cover-up, and then Morton commits suicide. Connor, Smith, and Jingo interrupt the merger negotiations to show Nakamoto President Yoshida the surveillance footage. Bob Richmond, an American lawyer working for Nakamoto, reveals himself as the killer and tries to run away, only to be killed by Sakamura's friends.\n\nYoshida maintains his and his colleagues innocence, quietly exiling Ishihara to a desk job back in Japan. Smith drives Jingo home, where she casts doubt on whether Richmond was really the murderer, or if he was simply taking the fall to protect someone higher up in the company.\n\n\n\"Rising Sun\" was released on 30 July 1993 in 1,510 theaters across the US. It grossed $15,195,941 (24.1% of total gross) on its opening weekend. During its run in theaters, the film grossed $63,179,523 (58.9%) in the US and $44,019,267 (41.1%) overseas for a worldwide total of $107,198,790. The film spent six weeks in the Top 10.\n\n, the film holds a 33% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 39 reviews.\n\nAt the time of the films release, it generated some controversy and protest from Asian-Americans, including from the Media Action Network for Asian Americans (MANAA,) who felt the way the film depicted Japanese people was racist. \n\n"}
{"id": "54283903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54283903", "title": "Soren Schroder", "text": "Soren Schroder\n\nSøren Wølck Schrøder (born 1962/63) is a Danish businessman, the CEO of Bunge Limited, a global agribusiness and food company, since June 2013.\n\nSøren Wølck Schrøder was born in Aarhus in Denmark, but moved to the United States to study at Connecticut College, where he received a bachelor's degree in economics.\n\nAfter finishing his bachelor's degree, Schroder worked for Continental Grain for more for than ten years and then transferred to Cargill for a shorter period. From 1997 to 2000, Schroder was a board member of the Danish company Scanola, but otherwise he has worked exclusively abroad.\n\nHe has worked for Bunge since 2000, initially as Protein Director at Bunge Global Markets. From 2010 to 2013 he was CEO of Bunge North America. He became CEO of Bunge Limited in June 2013, succeeding Alberto Weisser.\n"}
{"id": "203932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203932", "title": "Theory of constraints", "text": "Theory of constraints\n\nThe theory of constraints (TOC) is a management paradigm that views any manageable system as being limited in achieving more of its goals by a very small number of constraints. There is always at least one constraint, and TOC uses a focusing process to identify the constraint and restructure the rest of the organization around it. TOC adopts the common idiom \"a chain is no stronger than its weakest link\". This means that processes, organizations, etc., are vulnerable because the weakest person or part can always damage or break them or at least adversely affect the outcome.\n\nThe theory of constraints (TOC) is an overall management philosophy introduced by Eliyahu M. Goldratt in his 1984 book titled \"The Goal\", that is geared to help organizations continually achieve their goals. Goldratt adapted the concept to project management with his book \"Critical Chain\", published in 1997.\n\nAn earlier propagator of a similar concept was Wolfgang Mewes in Germany with publications on \"power-oriented management theory\" (Machtorientierte Führungstheorie, 1963) and following with his \"Energo-Kybernetic System (EKS, 1971)\", later renamed \"\" (Bottleneck-focused Strategy) as a more advanced \"theory of bottlenecks\". The publications of Wolfgang Mewes are marketed through the FAZ Verlag, publishing house of the German newspaper \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" (Frankfurt General Newspaper). However, the paradigm \"Theory of constraints\" was first used by Goldratt.\n\nThe underlying premise of the theory of constraints is that organizations can be measured and controlled by variations on three measures: throughput, operational expense, and inventory. Inventory is all the money that the system has invested in purchasing things which it intends to sell. Operational expense is all the money the system spends in order to turn inventory into throughput. Throughput is the rate at which the system generates money through sales.\n\nBefore the goal itself can be reached, necessary conditions must first be met. These typically include safety, quality, legal obligations, etc. For most businesses, the goal itself is to make money. However, for many organizations and non-profit businesses, making money is a necessary condition for pursuing the goal. Whether it is the goal or a necessary condition, understanding how to make sound financial decisions based on throughput, inventory, and operating expense is a critical requirement.\n\nTheory of constraints is based on the premise that the rate of goal achievement by a goal-oriented system (i.e., the system's throughput) is limited by at least one constraint.\n\nThe argument by reductio ad absurdum is as follows: If there was nothing preventing a system from achieving higher throughput (i.e., more goal units in a unit of time), its throughput would be infinite — which is impossible in a real-life system.\n\nOnly by increasing flow through the constraint can overall throughput be increased.\n\nAssuming the goal of a system has been articulated and its measurements defined, the steps are:\n\n\nThe goal of a commercial organization is: \"Make more money now and in the future\", and its measurements are given by throughput accounting as: throughput, inventory, and operating expenses.\n\nThe five focusing steps aim to ensure ongoing improvement efforts are centered on the organization's constraint(s). In the TOC literature, this is referred to as the \"process of ongoing improvement\" (POOGI).\n\nThese focusing steps are the key steps to developing the specific applications mentioned below.\n\nA constraint is anything that prevents the system from achieving its goal. There are many ways that constraints can show up, but a core principle within TOC is that there are not tens or hundreds of constraints. There is at least one, but at most only a few in any given system. Constraints can be internal or external to the system. An internal constraint is in evidence when the market demands more from the system than it can deliver. If this is the case, then the focus of the organization should be on discovering that constraint and following the five focusing steps to open it up (and potentially remove it). An external constraint exists when the system can produce more than the market will bear. If this is the case, then the organization should focus on mechanisms to create more demand for its products or services.\n\nTypes of (internal) constraints\n\nThe concept of the constraint in Theory of Constraints is analogous to but differs from the constraint that shows up in mathematical optimization. In TOC, the constraint is used as a focusing mechanism for management of the system. In optimization, the constraint is written into the mathematical expressions to limit the scope of the solution (X can be no greater than 5).\n\nPlease note: organizations have many problems with equipment, people, policies, etc. (A breakdown is just that – a breakdown – and is not a constraint in the true sense of the TOC concept). The constraint is the limiting factor that is preventing the organization from getting more throughput (typically, revenue through sales) even when nothing goes wrong.\n\nIf a constraint's throughput capacity is elevated to the point where it is no longer the system's limiting factor, this is said to \"break\" the constraint. The limiting factor is now some other part of the system, or may be external to the system (an external constraint). This is not to be confused with a breakdown.\n\nBuffers are used throughout the theory of constraints. They often result as part of the exploit and subordinate steps of the five focusing steps. Buffers are placed before the governing constraint, thus ensuring that the constraint is never starved. Buffers are also placed behind the constraint to prevent downstream failure from blocking the constraint's output. Buffers used in this way protect the constraint from variations in the rest of the system and should allow for normal variation of processing time and the occasional upset (Murphy) before and behind the constraint.\n\nBuffers can be a bank of physical objects before a work center, waiting to be processed by that work center. Buffers ultimately buy you time, as in the time before work reaches the constraint and are often verbalized as time buffers. There should always be enough (but not excessive) work in the time queue before the constraint and adequate offloading space behind the constraint.\n\nBuffers are \"not\" the small queue of work that sits before every work center in a Kanban system although it is similar if you regard the assembly line as the governing constraint. A prerequisite in the theory is that with one constraint in the system, all other parts of the system must have sufficient capacity to keep up with the work at the constraint and to catch up if time was lost. In a balanced line, as espoused by Kanban, when one work center goes down for a period longer than the buffer allows, then the entire system must wait until that work center is restored. In a TOC system, the only situation where work is in danger is if the constraint is unable to process (either due to malfunction, sickness or a \"hole\" in the buffer – if something goes wrong that the time buffer can not protect).\n\nBuffer management, therefore, represents a crucial attribute of the theory of constraints. There are many ways to apply buffers, but the most often used is a visual system of designating the buffer in three colors: green (okay), yellow (caution) and red (action required). Creating this kind of visibility enables the system as a whole to align and thus subordinate to the need of the constraint in a holistic manner. This can also be done daily in a central operations room that is accessible to everybody.\n\nThere are four primary types of plants in the TOC lexicon. Draw the flow of material from the bottom of a page to the top, and you get the four types. They specify the general flow of materials through a system, and also provide some hints about where to look for typical problems. This type of analysis is known as VATI analysis as it uses the bottom-up shapes of the letters V, A, T, and I to describe the types of plants. The four types can be combined in many ways in larger facilities, e.g. \"an A plant feeding a V plant\".\n\nFrom the above list, one can deduce that for non-material systems one could draw the flow of work or the flow of processes, instead of physical flows, and arrive at similar basic V, A, T, or I structures. A project, for example, is an A-shaped sequence of work, culminating in a delivered product (\"i.e., the intended outcome of the project\").\n\nThe focusing steps, this process of ongoing improvement, have been applied to manufacturing, project management, supply chain/distribution generated specific solutions. Other tools (mainly the \"thinking process\") also led to TOC applications in the fields of marketing and sales, and finance. The solution as applied to each of these areas are listed below.\n\nWithin manufacturing operations and operations management, the solution seeks to pull materials through the system, rather than push them into the system. The primary methodology used is drum-buffer-rope (DBR) and a variation called simplified drum-buffer-rope (S-DBR).\n\nDrum-buffer-rope is a manufacturing execution methodology based on the fact the output of a system can only be the same as the output at the constraint of the system. Any attempt to produce more than what the constraint can process just leads to excess inventory piling up. The method is named for its three components. The \"drum\" is the rate at which the physical constraint of the plant can work: the work center or machine or operation that limits the ability of the entire system to produce more. The rest of the plant follows the beat of the drum. Schedule at the drum decides what the system should produce, in what sequence to produce and how much to produce. They make sure the drum has work and that anything the drum has processed does not get wasted.\n\nThe \"buffer\" protects the drum, so that it always has work flowing to it. Buffers in DBR provide the additional lead time beyond the required set up and process times, for materials in the product flow. Since these buffers have time as their unit of measure, rather than quantity of material, this makes the priority system operate strictly based on the time an order is expected to be at the drum. Each work order will have a remaining buffer status that can be calculated. Based on this buffer status, work orders can be color coded into Red, Yellow and Green. The red orders have the highest priority and must be worked on first, since they have penetrated most into their buffers followed by yellow and green. As time evolves, this buffer status might change and the color assigned to the particular work order change with it.\n\nTraditional DBR usually calls for buffers at several points in the system: the constraint, synchronization points and at shipping. S-DBR has a buffer at shipping and manages the flow of work across the drum through a load planning mechanism.\n\nThe \"rope\" is the work release mechanism for the plant. Orders are released to the shop floor at one \"buffer time\" before they are due to be processed by the constraint. In other words, if the buffer is 5 days, the order is released 5 days before it is due at the constraint. Putting work into the system earlier than this buffer time is likely to generate too-high work-in-process and slow down the entire system.\n\nAutomated production lines that are used in the beverage industry to fill containers usually have several machines executing parts of the complete process, from filling primary containers to secondary packaging and palletisation. These machines operate at different speeds and capacities and have varying efficiency levels.\n\nTo be able to maximize the throughput, the production line usually has a designed constraint. This constraint is typically the slowest and often the most expensive machine on the line. The overall throughput of the line is determined by this machine. All other machines can operate faster and are connected by conveyors.\n\nThe conveyors usually have the ability to buffer product. In the event of a stoppage at a machine other than the constraint, the conveyor can buffer the product enabling the constraint machine to keep on running.\n\nA typical line setup is such that in normal operation the upstream conveyors from the constraint machine are always run full to prevent starvation at the constraint and the downstream conveyors are run empty to prevent a back up at the constraint. The overall aim is to prevent minor stoppages at the machines from impacting the constraint.\n\nFor this reason as the machines get further from the constraint, they have the ability to run faster than the previous machine and this creates a V curve.\n\nIn general, the solution for supply chains is to create flow of inventory so as to ensure greater availability and to eliminate surpluses.\n\nThe TOC distribution solution is effective when used to address a single link in the supply chain and more so across the entire system, even if that system comprises many different companies. The purpose of the TOC distribution solution is to establish a decisive competitive edge based on extraordinary availability by dramatically reducing the damages caused when the flow of goods is interrupted by shortages and surpluses.\n\nThis approach uses several new rules to protect availability with less inventory than is conventionally required. Before explaining these new rules, the term Replenishment Time must be defined. Replenishment Time (RT) is the sum of the delay, after the first consumption following a delivery, before an order is placed plus the delay after the order is placed until the ordered goods arrive at the ordering location.\n\n\nOnce inventory is managed as described above, continuous efforts should be undertaken to reduce RT, late deliveries, supplier minimum order quantities (both per SKU and per order) and customer order batching. Any improvements in these areas will automatically improve both availability and inventory turns, thanks to the adaptive nature of Buffer Management.\n\nA stocking location that manages inventory according to the TOC should help a non-TOC customer (downstream link in a supply chain, whether internal or external) manage their inventory according to the TOC process. This type of help can take the form of a vendor managed inventory (VMI). The TOC distribution link simply extends its buffer sizing and management techniques to its customers’ inventories. Doing so has the effect of smoothing the demand from the customer and reducing order sizes per SKU. VMI results in better availability and inventory turns for both supplier and customer. More than that, the benefits to the non-TOC customers are sufficient to meet the purpose of capitalizing on the decisive competitive edge by giving the customer a powerful reason to be more loyal and give more business to the upstream link. When the end consumers buy more, the whole supply chain sells more.\n\nOne caveat should be considered. Initially and only temporarily, the supply chain or a specific link may sell less as the surplus inventory in the system is sold. However, the sales lift due to improved availability is a countervailing factor. The current levels of surpluses and shortages make each case different.\n\nThe solution for finance and accounting is to apply holistic thinking to the finance application. This has been termed throughput accounting. Throughput accounting suggests that one examine the impact of investments and operational changes in terms of the impact on the throughput of the business. It is an alternative to cost accounting.\n\nThe primary measures for a TOC view of finance and accounting are: throughput, operating expense and investment. Throughput is calculated from sales minus \"totally variable cost\", where totally variable cost is usually calculated as the cost of raw materials that go into creating the item sold.\n\nCritical Chain Project Management (CCPM) are utilized in this area. CCPM is based on the idea that all projects look like A-plants: all activities converge to a final deliverable. As such, to protect the project, there must be internal buffers to protect synchronization points and a final project buffer to protect the overall project.\n\nWhile originally focused on manufacturing and logistics, TOC has expanded lately into sales management and marketing. Its role is explicitly acknowledged in the field of sales process engineering. For effective sales management one can apply Drum Buffer Rope to the sales process similar to the way it is applied to operations (see Reengineering the Sales Process book reference below). This technique is appropriate when your constraint is in the sales process itself, or if you just want an effective sales management technique which includes the topics of funnel management and conversion rates.\n\nThe thinking processes are a set of tools to help managers walk through the steps of initiating and implementing a project. When used in a logical flow, the thinking processes help walk through a buy-in process:\n\nTOC practitioners sometimes refer to these in the negative as working through \"layers of resistance\" to a change.\n\nRecently, the \"current reality tree\" (CRT) and \"future reality tree\" (FRT) have been applied to an argumentative academic paper.\n\nDespite its origins as a manufacturing approach (Goldratt & Cox, The Goal: A process of Ongoing Improvement, 1992), Goldratt's Theory of Constraints (TOC) methodology is now regarded as a systems methodology with strong foundations in the hard sciences (Mabin, 1999). Through its tools for convergent thinking and synthesis, the “Thinking processes”, which underpin the entire TOC methodology, help identify and manage constraints and guide continuous improvement and change in organizations (Dettmer H. , 1998).\n\nThe process of change requires the identification and acceptance of core issues; the goal and the means to the goal. This comprehensive set of logical tools can be used for exploration, solution development and solution implementation for individuals, groups or organizations. Each tool has a purpose and nearly all tools can be used independently (Cox & Spencer, 1998). Since these thinking tools are designed to address successive “layers of resistance” and enable communication, it expedites securing “buy in” of groups. While CRT (current reality tree) represents the undesirable effects of the current situation, the FRT (the future reality tree), NBR (negative branch) help people plan and understand the possible results of their actions. The PRT (prerequisite tree) and TRT (transition tree) are designed to build collective buy in and aid in the Implementation phase. The logical constructs of these tools or diagrams are the necessary condition logic, the sufficient cause logic and the strict logic rules that are used to validate cause-effect relationships which are modelled with these tools (Dettmer W. , 2006).\n\nA summary of these tools, the questions they help answer and the associated logical constructs used is presented in the table below.\nTOC Thinking Process Tools:\nUse of these tools are based on the fundamental beliefs of TOC that organizations a) are inherently simple (interdependencies exist in organizations) b) desire inherent harmony (win – win solutions are possible) c) are inherently good (people are good) and have inherent potential (people and organizations have potential to do better) (Goldratt E. , 2009). In the book “Through the clouds to solutions” Jelena Fedurko (Fedurko, 2013) states that the major areas for application of TP tools as:\n\nTOC was initiated by Goldratt, who until his recent death was still the main driving force behind the development and practice of TOC. There is a network of individuals and small companies loosely coupled as practitioners around the world. TOC is sometimes referred to as \"constraint management\". TOC is a large body of knowledge with a strong guiding philosophy of growth.\n\nCriticisms that have been leveled against TOC include:\n\nWhile TOC has been compared favorably to linear programming techniques, D. Trietsch from University of Auckland argues that DBR methodology is inferior to competing methodologies. Linhares, from the Getulio Vargas Foundation, has shown that the TOC approach to establishing an optimal product mix is unlikely to yield optimum results, as it would imply that P=NP.\n\nDuncan (as cited by Steyn)\nsays that TOC borrows heavily from systems dynamics developed by Forrester in the 1950s and from statistical process control which dates back to World War II. And Noreen Smith and Mackey, in their independent report on TOC, point out that several key concepts in TOC \"have been topics in management accounting textbooks for decades.\"\n\nPeople claim Goldratt's books fail to acknowledge that TOC borrows from more than 40 years of previous management science research and practice, particularly from program evaluation and review technique/critical path method (PERT/CPM) and the just in time strategy. A rebuttal to these criticisms is offered in Goldratt's \"What is the \"Theory of Constraints\" and How Should it be Implemented?\", and in his audio program, \"Beyond The Goal\". In these, Goldratt discusses the history of disciplinary sciences, compares the strengths and weaknesses of the various disciplines, and acknowledges the sources of information and inspiration for the thinking processes and critical chain methodologies. Articles published in the now-defunct Journal of \"Theory of Constraints\" referenced foundational materials. Goldratt published an article and gave talks with the title \"Standing on the Shoulders of Giants\" in which he gives credit for many of the core ideas of Theory of Constraints. Goldratt has sought many times to show the correlation between various improvement methods.\n\nGoldratt has been criticized on lack of openness in his theories, an example being him not releasing the algorithm he used for the Optimum Performance Training system. Some view him as unscientific with many of his theories, tools and techniques not being a part of the public domain, rather a part of his own framework of profiting on his ideas.\nAccording to Gupta and Snyder (2009), despite being recognized as a genuine management philosophy nowadays, TOC has yet failed to demonstrate its effectiveness in the academic literature and as such, cannot be considered academically worthy enough to be called a widely recognized theory. TOC needs more case studies that prove a connection between implementation and improved financial performance.\nNave (2002) argues that TOC does not take employees into account and fails to empower them in the production process. He also states that TOC fails to address unsuccessful policies as constraints.\nIn contrast, Mukherjee and Chatterjee (2007) state that much of the criticism of Goldratt’s work has been focused on the lack of rigour in his work, but not of the bottleneck approach, which are two different aspects of the issue.\n\nThe Theory of Constraints International Certification Organization (TOCICO) is an independent not-for-profit incorporated society that sets exams to ensure a consistent standard of competence. It is overseen by a board of academic and industrial experts. It also hosts an annual international conference. The work presented at these conferences constitutes a core repository of the current knowledge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2175998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2175998", "title": "Thorsten Nordenfelt", "text": "Thorsten Nordenfelt\n\nThorsten Nordenfelt (1 May 1842 – 18 August 1920), was a Swedish inventor and industrialist.\n\nNordenfelt was born in Örby outside Kinna, Sweden, the son of a colonel. The surname was and is often spelt Nordenfeldt, though Thorsten and his brothers always spelt it Nordenfelt, and the 1881 Census shows it as Nordenfelt. The family home in that year was Leinster Lodge on the Uxbridge Road, Paddington in west London.\n\nThorsten worked for a Swedish company in London from 1862 to 1866 and migrated to England in 1867 when he married Emma Stansfeld Grundy.\n\nThorsten Nordenfelt and his brother-in-law started a small business to trade Swedish steel for British rails in 1887. Later on he founded \"Nordenfelt Guns and Ammunition Company, ltd\" to develop a machine-gun designed by Helge Palmcrantz that would be referred to as the Nordenfelt gun. His company also designed a range of anti-torpedoboat guns in calibres from 37 to 57 mm, that were produced in Erith, Kent, Stockholm and Spain. Under pressure from Rothschild and Vickers his company merged with Maxim's in 1888 to form The Maxim Nordenfelt Guns and Ammunition Company.\n\nAfter a personal bankruptcy Nordenfelt was forced out of the Nordenfelt-Maxim company in 1890 and left England for France, where his new company, Société Nordenfelt, designed the eccentric screw breech used on the French 75. Legal action followed (\"Nordenfelt v Maxim, Nordenfelt Guns and Ammunition Co Ltd\") over a non-compete clause Nordenfelt had signed.\n\nIn 1903 he returned to Sweden and retired.\n\nIn 1902 a public house named after Thorsten Nordenfelt was built at 181 Erith Road, Erith just along from the Gun and Carriage works of Vickers, Sons and Maxim (previously Maxim Nordenfelt Guns and Ammunition Company) . Named 'The Nordenfelt Tavern' it was built to the design of Jonathan G. Ensor (1852/3-19??), architect for brewer Watney Combe & Reid\n\nDiscussions between Thorsten Nordenfelt and the English reverend George Garrett led to the production of a series of steam powered submarines. The first was the \"Nordenfelt I\", a 56 tonne, 19.5 metre long vessel similar to Garret's ill-fated \"Resurgam\" (1879), with a range of 240 kilometres and armed with a single torpedo and a 25.4 mm machine gun. It was manufactured by Bolinders in Stockholm in 1884-1885. Like the \"Resurgam\", it operated on the surface using a 100 HP steam engine with a maximum speed of 9 kn, then it shut down its engine to dive. She was purchased by the Greek Government and was delivered to Salamis Naval Base in 1886. Following the acceptance tests, she was never used again by the Hellenic Navy and was scrapped in 1901.\n\nNordenfelt then built the \"Nordenfelt II\" (\"Abdül Hamid\") in 1886 and \"Nordenfelt III\" (\"Abdül Mecid\") in 1887, a pair of 30 metre long submarines with twin torpedo tubes, for the Ottoman Navy. \"Abdül Mamid\" became the first submarine in history to fire a torpedo while submerged under water. Nordenfelt's efforts culminated in 1887 with the \"Nordenfelt IV\" which had twin motors and twin torpedoes. It was sold to the Russians, but proved unstable and ran aground off Jutland; when the Russians refused to pay for it, it was scrapped.\n\n\"Abdülhamid\" and \"Abdülmecid\" were in Istanbul in 1914. The submarines were briefly considered for use in harbour defence but it was found that their hulls were too badly corroded.\n"}
{"id": "17997437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17997437", "title": "Timeline of Apple Inc. products", "text": "Timeline of Apple Inc. products\n\nThis timeline of Apple Inc. products is a list of all stand-alone Apple II, Macintosh, and other computers, as well as computer peripherals, expansion cards, ancillary products, and consumer electronics sold by Apple Inc. This list is ordered by the release date of the products.\n\"Products are shaded using their corresponding graphical timeline color schemes (unshaded) from all others.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8901937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8901937", "title": "WDCH-FM", "text": "WDCH-FM\n\nWDCH-FM (99.1 FM) is a radio station currently broadcasting a business news format to the Baltimore, Maryland/Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Licensed to Bowie, Maryland the station is currently owned by Entercom and operated by Bloomberg L.P. Its transmitter is located near Crofton, Maryland, and the broadcasting studios are located near the Washington Navy Yard along the north/west bank of the Anacostia River (Eastern Branch of the Potomac River) in Southeast Washington. \n\nWDCH is one of the few stations in the Baltimore/Washington corridor that directly targets \"both\" markets. This is because its transmitter is located halfway between the two cities, providing a strong city-grade signal to both.\n\nWDCH-FM often airs D.C. United soccer and Washington Wizards pro basketball games in the NBA whenever sister station WJFK-FM (106.7 \"The Fan\") is already covering a game elsewhere.\n\nThe 99.1 MHz frequency was originally WNAV-FM, licensed to Annapolis, Maryland and featuring a beautiful music format. It competed with similar stations in both the Baltimore and Washington markets. In 1983, the station changed calls to WLOM-FM.\n\nIn 1983 the owners of WHFS, then licensed to Bethesda at 102.3 FM, sold that station for $2 million and used the money to purchase WLOM along with and its sister station WNAV (1430 AM). The WHFS format and call letters were then moved to 99.1 FM, licensed to operate with 50,000 watts (Class B FM) with much higher power than the 102.3 facility, which broadcasts with only 3,000 watts (Class A) at the time; a Class A FM is the lowest coverage area as opposed to a Class A AM which is the greatest coverage area. Thus WHFS on 99.1 could then be heard in Baltimore, Washington, and much of the Eastern Shore of Maryland. Eventually Einstein's group sold WHFS. When the station switched formats, it was located at the Infinity Broadcasting Center in Lanham, Maryland. The 102.3 frequency is now occupied by an Urban AC station in Washington, using the call letters WMMJ and nicknamed \"Majic 102.3\".\nSince 1990, WHFS has hosted an event called the HFStival, an annual (sometimes semi-annual) day-long (sometimes two-day-long) outdoor concert. The concert, often held at Washington's RFK Stadium, features a variety local and national acts; for example, the 2004 lineup included The Cure, Jay-Z, Modest Mouse, the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and Cypress Hill. Robert Benjamin, Bob Waugh and Bill Glasser took the HFStival from a small yearly concert in Fairfax, Virginia, to a large festival in Washington, D.C. that was headlined by major acts and was surrounded by culturally significant booths, games, food, and rides, as well as an outdoor second stage. Amongst others, Billy Zero was instrumental in growing the HFStival Locals Only Stage where bands like Good Charlotte and Jimmie's Chicken Shack got their big break. The term Locals Only stuck and is still used today and the Locals Only Stage was copied by Modern Rock Stations across the Country.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Liberty Broadcasting published a quarterly magazine titled \"WHFS Press\" that was mailed to listeners and available in local music outlets.\n\nThough becoming famous as a cutting-edge station playing the latest underground music (and often beating the mainstream to the punch by months and even years), under Infinity Broadcasting's ownership, the station became the local modern alternative rock station in the mid 90s. No longer playing rather obscure progressive rock, nor the classic and hard rock of its Baltimore competitor WIYY, HFS was now formatted more towards a younger set of fans who were more apt to listen to Green Day and Fuel than less mainstream artists such as Fugazi or Lou Reed. The station played much of the alternative hits that were touted by the mainstream press and MTV, turning off many old-school HFS listeners, but in turn gaining many listeners in the 18–24 age demographic.\n\nDuring this period, WHFS featured a specialty show called \"Now Hear This\", hosted by Dave Marsh, which highlighted indie and local music. The station never fully reverted to its prior all-indie status, but it did begin to combine more underground programming with its modern rock format.\n\nIn 1999, WHFS released a New Music New Video Compilation Volume 1 on VHS that was distributed free at Washington area Tower Records outlets. It featured tracks by Cyclefly, Fuel, Fastball, Elliott Smith, Kid Rock, Eve 6, 3 Colours Red, Puya, and Joydrop.\n\nAt noon on January 12, 2005, 99.1 switched to a Tropical Latin music format. Its call letters were changed to WZLL on January 28, 2005, and then again to WLZL on February 5, 2005, and the station was rebranded as \"El Zol 99.1 FM\". AOL, which had a partnership with Infinity Broadcasting and recognized that many people would miss the old WHFS format, quickly launched an internet-only streaming radio station with a playlist much like that of WHFS.\nDue to numerous complaints about the format change, which attracted media attention, then-owner Infinity brought the WHFS format back a month later on the 105.7 FM frequency (now WJZ-FM). The WHFS call letters have since relocated first to a talk station on 1580 AM (now WJFK), then to a sister station in West Palm Beach, Florida. WLZL was also CBS Radio's first Spanish radio station, and the company's only Spanish station outside the southern United States.\n\nOn November 16, 2011, CBS Radio announced plans to acquire WFSI (107.9 MHz) from religious broadcaster Family Radio, with the intention of moving WLZL's Spanish Tropical format and \"El Zol\" branding from 99.1 to 107.9, with a new all-news format launched on 99.1 FM to compete directly with the region's leading all-news format station, long-time powerhouse WTOP-FM. The 99.1 MHz frequency then adopted the WNEW-FM call sign, which was named after the former AM and FM stations of the same name in New York City.\n\nThe all-news format launched at noon on January 22, 2012; the station initially planned to launch at 5 a.m. on January 19, but postponed it due to technical problems. The station also broadcasts simultaneously in HD Radio on 94.7 FM – HD2 and 105.7 FM – HD2.\n\nWNEW-FM regularly programmed traffic reports and weather every five minutes between 5 am and 7 pm on the ones and sixes weekdays, and every ten minutes on the ones (six times an hour) the rest of the week (both from CBS local affiliate television station WUSA, Channel 9), sports updates twice an hour at :25 and :55 from sister all-sports station WJFK-FM, entertainment news once an hour, and business news from Bloomberg News twice an hour at :15 and :45. When breaking news warranted, WNEW-FM would break format to provide continuous coverage of any event. When the station began, it had traffic reports only every ten minutes, and had weather reports every four minutes. At the beginning, it focused on Washington area news, traffic, and weather. In 2014, the station expanded its coverage of the Baltimore metropolitan area by providing news, traffic and weather reports, and coordinated with on-air personalities in the news, sports and weather departments from its long-time market-leading station WJZ-TV; the change was widely promoted and advertised at the time. This was thought to be an opportune time, since competitor WTOP had switched from its long-time wide-ranging AM signal at 1500, to several FM repeaters which curtailed its traditionally strong signal across two states and the District. WNEW-FM was now the only station to provide coverage to \"both\" Washington and Baltimore, unlike WTOP, which had, since the early 1970s, focused on the Washington area and only occasionally carried Baltimore news events, sports or the slightly different weather and temperature readings.\n\nAs done with other CBS-owned all-news stations, WNEW-FM provided the audio feed of such network news programming as the daily \"CBS Evening News\" each weeknight at 7 pm, Sunday's \"Face the Nation\" interview/discussion program, and the weekly Sunday news magazine, \"60 Minutes\"; the latter's simulcast was frequently promoted by WJZ-TV, but the radio broadcast was paused every 10 minutes for traffic and weather updates, and as a result, the WNEW-FM simulcast would be a few minutes behind the CBS television broadcast. In addition, similar to other CBS-owned all-news stations, \"60 Minutes\" was broadcast at 7 pm on Sundays each and every week, regardless of whether or not the televised version (usually an NFL football game) was delayed on CBS.\n\nOn February 23, 2015, WNEW-FM began airing Talk programs, including the syndicated The Dave Ramsey Show in the evenings, a business and personal finance call-in program and Overnight America, another syndicated nationwide late-night broadcast.\n\nOn the first weekend in March 2015, media insider local internet news website dcrtv.com reported that CBS Radio was moving their DC-area radio stations studios and offices closer to Nationals Park, which is the home of the local baseball team, the Washington Nationals. WNEW-FM was the first station to move. On March 8, 2015, WNEW-FM claimed that they were renovating their studios and could not continue broadcasting their ordinary news programming, promising to return to regular programming later that night. This came weeks after hosts on sister station WJFK-FM, 106.7, \"The Fan\" had similar problems.\n\nOn December 18, 2015, at 10 am, WNEW-FM began simulcasting Bloomberg Radio as \"Bloomberg 99.1 & 105.7-HD2\" after CBS began leasing the station to Bloomberg earlier that day. WIAD-HD2 would drop the WNEW simulcast and flip to classic hits a couple months later in February.\n\nOn March 15, 2016, WNEW-FM changed calls to WDCH-FM. The WNEW-FM call letters returned to New York City that same day.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th. Despite the merger, Bloomberg will continue to lease the station via a time brokerage agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "34598335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34598335", "title": "William Duffus Hunt", "text": "William Duffus Hunt\n\nSir William Duffus Hunt Kt (2 December 1867–18 September 1939) was a leading New Zealand businessman of the first half of the twentieth century. With his partner James Armour Johnstone he built one of Australasia's leading stock and station agencies, Wright Stephenson & Co.\n\nNew Zealand-born of Gloucestershire wool-growing stock Hunt was the only son and eldest child of John Hunt, a farmer and early settler at Oruru, Northland, and his wife Maria Frances, daughter of Jamaica-born Etonian Rev John Duffus M A, vicar of St Andrew, Mangonui.\n\nHe was born on 2 December 1867 in Oruru, Northland, New Zealand.\n\nW D Hunt married twice. At Gore on 20 December 1894 he married Ismene Helena Stanley. Ismene had a daughter and a son before she died in May 1900. Two years later, 15 May 1902, Hunt married Jessie Belstead Edwards in Adelaide South Australia. There was just one child of the second marriage, a second son.\n\nWilliam Hunt joined stock and station agency Wright Stephenson proper in 1891. His ability was recognised by Johnstone much earlier when he was employed by them for just two months at shearing time on Wright Stephenson-managed Blackstone Hill station in the Maniatoto. Though only 17 he was kept on at the station as a permanent shepherd and soon took over the bookkeeping of the station and then its management. When Blackstone Hill station was subdivided in 1891 23 year old Hunt organised the muster and auction of the tens of thousands of sheep on the property. He was also required to act as auctioneer in the absence of George Stephenson of Wright Stephenson. J A Johnstone who had personally clerked the sale was so impressed he offered Hunt a position on the staff of Wright Stephenson & Co.\nThe same year the partners in Wright Stephenson decided it was time to open their first branch. They chose Gore on the banks of the Mataura river and sent William Hunt to organise it though within three years times had become so hard it was deemed prudent to close Gore and confine operations to Otago. In spite of their difficulties Hunt's well chosen Gore customers all settled their accounts in full. In 1896 the government resumed borrowing overseas making advances to settlers on freeholds and long term leaseholds at moderate interest rates and the farming outlook improved. Gore was re-opened and another branch opened at Invercargill, Hunt being made responsible for all Southland province. Johnstone remained in Otago.\nWhen the founding partners withdrew from the firm with the turn of the century Johnstone and Hunt acquired the major holdings of the shares in the firm. As the rabbit pest was brought under control their customers began to prosper once more and Wright Stephenson was incorporated as a public company in 1906. The initial directors were J A Johnstone (chairman) Hunt and P L Wright, Johnstone and Hunt were joint managing directors. In early 1907 Johnstone's health failed and he took 12 months leave to recuperate. Over that time W D Hunt acted as Chairman as well as sole managing director and when Johnstone returned to work he resumed the joint managing directorship but he acknowledged William Hunt's achievements and Hunt stayed Chairman of Directors. Hunt managed to visit every one of his firm's branches each year.\n\nWright Stephenson's activities spread across New Zealand and into all farming areas. Rapidly becoming a major national business they merged with Wellington's W & G Turnbull and Co and W Gunson and Co in Auckland. It became clear a central location was necessary and in 1917 the Head office left Dunedin for Wellington. In 1920 the Abraham and Williams business covering Manawatu-Rangitikei and adjacent districts came under their expanding umbrella. The sale of new motor vehicles and their servicing was added as were the provision of all farm requirements including bulk groceries and home appliances. It seemed that everything might be supplied until staunch lifetime prohibitionist Hunt felt obliged to draw the line at the last commodity they might sell. Wright Stephenson stocked no alcohol of any kind.\n\nAfter the end of World War I a new stud department for all pedigree livestock soon extended to importing and exporting. An annual sale of thoroughbred yearlings was established in 1927 which brought buyers from all over the world.\n\nW D Hunt was the Stock and Station Agency industry representative on both the New Zealand Meat Producers Board and the New Zealand Wool Board. The business of each board was central to his core business marketing farm produce.\nand in 1932 he was awarded a knighthood for public services\nUntil he moved his family to Wellington in 1917 he lived in Invercargill where he ran stud Friesians and stud Romneys. On making the move he gave their Invercargill home to the Plunket Society, he was chairman of Plunket's specialist manufacturing operation. He was a keen deer stalker and fly fisherman.\n\nBefore the outbreak of war in 1939 he travelled from London to Wellington by air and contracted meningitis during the flight. A few months later, 18 September 1939, he died in Wellington aged 71. Hunt was survived by his second wife and a son from each marriage.\n\nHis obituary in Wellington's Evening Post described him as devoid of ostentation and readily approachable.\n"}
{"id": "35504669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35504669", "title": "Win Myint (minister)", "text": "Win Myint (minister)\n\n\"Wunna Kyawhtin\" Win Myint () is a Burmese businessman and former Minister for Commerce of Myanmar. He is also owner of the Shwe Nagar Min Company, the Zeyashwemye Football Club, and former chairman of the Union of Myanmar Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry (UMFCCI).\n"}
{"id": "30741710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30741710", "title": "WiseWindow", "text": "WiseWindow\n\nWiseWindow is a private data provider of unstructured \"big data\" sentiment, used in real-time business intelligence. The company, now part of KPMG, is based in Irvine, California and has 25 full-time employees. WiseWindow's patented web analytics system, Mass Opinion Business Intelligence (MOBI) analyzes and classifies comments made online and distills the information into a pre-defined, structured database. The company has shown \"the predictive value of cluster analysis by applying it to social media content.\"\n\nMOBI methodology combines online measurement, cloud computing and market research that provides live consumer sentiment data around brands, products and purchase influencing factors using decision-supported information from millions of unsolicited opinions. WiseWindow’s MOBI is used by companies in the airline, alcoholic beverage, automotive, consumer electronic, health care, news media, entertainment, political and retail industries.\n\nMOBI VIBES 3.0 visualization tools were launched in November 2011. MOBI combines cloud computing, deep website crawling, relevance recognition and statistical natural language analysis to allow business decision makers to quickly get a real-time look at their brands and their competitive set. By collecting, analyzing and classifying the billions of unbiased consumer comments made online annually from across the web, MOBI distills the data into a usable form providing an up-to-the-minute view of consumer sentiment.. It lets users view sentiment data by demographic, geographic and attitudinal segment, and provides a normalized benchmark of sentiment within a vertical market through its MOBI Sentiment Index.\n\nWiseWindow began developing its core technology in 2007, based on the work of its founder, Rajiv Dulapet, while he was a research fellow at Stanford University. The premise of WiseWindow is to utilize mass opinions expressed on the Internet to develop business intelligence that is useful to companies and to develop more accurate forecasts of consumer behavior.\n\nWiseWindow acquired the marketing research firm Core Strategies in 2009, which was founded by Marshall Toplansky. With the acquisition, the company adapted and productized its technology to be able to calibrate Mass Opinion Business Intelligence (MOBI) data with traditional forms of quantitative and qualitative market research, and provide on-going tracking metrics that are of use to marketers and operating management within client companies.\n\nKPMG acquired Wise Window in April, 2012. The three co-founders have integrated Wise Window's MOBI technology into KPMG's data analytics practice. The financial terms of the acquisition were not made public.\n\nDuring the 2010 mid-term elections WiseWindow partnered with political blog The Daily Beast to present the \"Election Oracle\" which used MOBI technology to accurately predict 36 of the 37 Senate races and 98% of the House races. They also teamed up with The Daily Beast to create the \"Oscar Oracle\" to predict the outcome of the 2011 Academy Awards.\n\nWise Window election data is being used by both Reuters and CNN for the 2012 presidential election.\n\nIn 2009, WiseWindow won the Edison Award for Best New Product for its mass opinion brand tracking system.\n\nIn 2011, WiseWindow's MOBI won the TechAmerica Orange County High-Tech Innovation Award in the Internet E-Commerce category. Also, it won an award for innovation in the internet arena from the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School.\n"}
