{"id": "44379073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379073", "title": "1981 European Karate Championships", "text": "1981 European Karate Championships\n\nThe 1981 European Karate Championships was held in Venice, Italy, from May 2–4, 1981.\n\n"}
{"id": "23896833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23896833", "title": "1986–87 UAE Football League", "text": "1986–87 UAE Football League\n\nStatistics of UAE Football League in season 1986/87.\n\nSharjah FC won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "44146670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44146670", "title": "2005 Ýokary Liga", "text": "2005 Ýokary Liga\n\nThe 2005 Turkmenistan Higher League (Ýokary Liga) season was the thirteenth season of Turkmenistan's professional football league. Nine teams competed in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "24752980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24752980", "title": "2009 Turkish Cup Final", "text": "2009 Turkish Cup Final\n\nThe 2009 Turkish Cup Final was played between Beşiktaş, and Fenerbahçe on 13 May 2009 in Izmir. Beşiktaş won 4–2.\n\nBeşiktaş was put in group A, along with Antalyaspor, Gaziantepspor, Trabzonspor and Gaziantep BB. Beşiktaş won all 4 group matches and preceded to the quarter-finals against Antalyaspor. Beşiktaş won at away 2–0 and at home 3–1. In the semi-finals, Beşiktaş beat Ankaraspor 3–1 away and lost 2–1 at home, putting Beşiktaş in their 13th Turkish Cup final.\n\nFenerbahçe was put in Group C with Bursaspor, Eskişehirspor, Ankaragücü and Tokatspor. Fenerbahçe won all 4 group matches to put them in the quarter-finals. Fenerbahçe beat Bursaspor 1–0 away and 3–1 at home. In the semi-finals, Fenerbahçe beat Sivasspor 3–1 at home and a 0–0 tie away.\n\nYusuf Şimşek put Beşiktaş in the lead with an early goal against Fenerbahçe (1–0). Both teams missed scoring chances until the 26th minute, when Daniel Güiza scored the equalizer (1–1). Bobô scored Beşiktaş' second goal in the 56th minute 56 (2–1), then scored another in the 73rd minute (3–1). Filip Hološko delivered the final blow with a goal in the 80th minute (4–1). A goal scored by Alex on a penalty kick made the score 4–2 in the 90th minute. Beşiktaş won their eighth Turkish Cup, their third in four years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1936530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936530", "title": "Adirondack Bank Center", "text": "Adirondack Bank Center\n\nThe Adirondack Bank Center at the Utica Memorial Auditorium is a 3,860-seat multi-purpose arena in Utica, New York, with a capacity of 5,700 for concerts. Nicknamed the Aud, it is the home arena of the Utica Comets, the AHL affiliate of the NHL's Vancouver Canucks.\n\nThe Utica Memorial Auditorium was conceived by then-Utica mayor John T. McKennan, who believed that the city needed a place for entertainment and sporting events. McKennan and the administration that he hired to plan out the process, led by Frank M. Romano, then hired Gilbert Seltzer, a well known architect at that time, to draw up plans for the building. A site was found along the old Erie Canal, and groundbreaking took place April 15, 1957. The arena was constructed using the world's first pre-stressed dual cable roof system, designed by Lev Zetlin (who would later partner with architect Philip Johnson to construct both the New York State Pavilion \"Tent of Tomorrow\" seen at the 1964 World's Fair and the Munson-Williams-Proctor Arts Institute, also located in Utica, NY) with \"struts\" between the cables. John A. Roebling's Sons Company developed the tensioning method for the project. Zetlin's design became the predecessor to the many modern dome designs seen today, and has since influenced many other tensile structures including Madison Square Garden. Seltzer would take the most pride in constructing \"The Aud\", saying, \"This was the first successful use of cables for a roof structure.\"\n\n\"The Aud\" was also one of the first stadiums to have telescopic seats. Telescopic bleachers (the bleachers pulled out from below higher levels) were common in stadiums, but Zetlin requested more comfortable seating for the arena.\n\nWork continued through 1958 and into 1959. When the Auditorium was finally completed, it became one of just three arenas built without obstructed views. The arena opened on March 13, 1960, with the Greater Utica Industrial Exposition its first event, running three evenings from March 16–19. 96 exhibitors took part in the presentation which drew an attendance of some 45,000. In 1962, it hosted the NCAA Division I Men's Hockey Championship (AKA the \"Frozen Four\"). (In 2017, the arena will host the Division III \"Frozen Four\".)\n\nScenes from the 1977 film \"Slap Shot\" starring Paul Newman were shot at the Auditorium. The original center-hung scoreboard, as seen in the movie, was unusual in that the game time was kept by a digital clock, while the penalty time was kept by analog clocks. This was eventually replaced by a center-hung scoreboard designed by Eversan, which includes a one-line messageboard. \"The Aud\" also has the distinction of being the location of one of the last scheduled Elvis Presley concerts. The concert was scheduled to be on Friday, August 19, 1977, three days after Presley's death on August 16.\n\nIn 2011, the Utica Memorial Auditorium was designated as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers in recognition of its innovative cable suspended roof.\n\nOn June 14, 2013 it was announced that the Peoria Rivermen, the AHL farm team of the National Hockey League's Vancouver Canucks would be relocating to the Utica Memorial Auditorium for the 2013-2014 season as the Utica Comets. As the AHL has a strong presence in Western and Central New York State, the league agreed to the move, citing the move would further boost the league's strength in the Northeast while further cutting down on travel expenses. Travis Green was named as the first head coach in team history on July 23, 2013, joining the Comets from the Portland Winterhawks of the WHL. The Comets played their first game in franchise history on October 11, 2013 at Blue Cross Arena in Rochester, losing 4-1 to the Rochester Americans. The first Comet goal ever (and the game's lone Comet goal) was scored by Pascal Pelletier at 13:28 of the third period. On October 23, 2013, the Comets played at \"The Aud\" for the first time, losing 4-1 to the Albany Devils in front of a sold-out crowd. Frank Corrado scored the first Comet goal on home ice (and the Comets' only goal of the game) with 6:48 remaining. Green named Colin Stuart the first captain in team history on October 30, 2013.\n\nToday, in addition to the Comets, the Auditorium plays host to the Utica College Pioneers men's and women's ice hockey teams which play in the United Collegiate Hockey Conference of the NCAA Division III, The Skating Club of Utica, The Jr. Comets Youth Hockey Program and several high school varsity ice hockey teams. It has been the former home for the Mohawk Valley Stars/Comets of the Atlantic Coast Hockey League, the Utica Devils of the American Hockey League, the Utica Bulldogs/Blizzard and Mohawk Valley Prowlers of the United Hockey League, and the Mohawk Valley IceCats of the North Eastern Hockey League. Both Pioneer hockey teams boast the highest average attendance for a Division III hockey team in the United States, with regular season games frequently selling out.\n\nIn recent years, \"The Aud\" has earned high rankings from various hockey circles, earning the #8 spot in \"The 10 Coolest Hockey Rinks in the World\" list by Complex Magazine, the #8 rank for best AHL arena by Stadium Journey, and #4 in the Pure Hockey Blog's list of the top 6 places to skate for hockey.\n\nPhotos and renderings of the Utica Memorial Auditorium are on permanent display at New York's Museum of Modern Art. The museum's collection honors the auditorium as an architectural landmark.\n\nOn September 27, 2017, the Upper Mohawk Valley Memorial Auditorium Authority announced a 10-year naming rights deal with locally based Adirondack Bank, amending \"The Aud\"'s official name to Adirondack Bank Center at the Utica Memorial Auditorium.\n\nOn June 1, 2018, the Adirondack Bank Center hosted .\n\nIn addition to its regular season high school hockey games, the Utica Memorial Auditorium hosted the New York State Ice Hockey semi-finals and finals every year from its inception to the 2015 Championships. In August 2015, NYSPHSAA announced it would be moving the state tournament to Buffalo's HarborCenter. On March 9–10, 1973, Utica Memorial Auditorium hosted the 11th NYSPHSAA state wrestling tournament. The annual tournament has not returned to Utica since.\n\n"}
{"id": "7128076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7128076", "title": "Al Akhdar SC", "text": "Al Akhdar SC\n\nAl-Akhdar Sports Club (, \"Nādī al-ʾAkhḍar al-Riyāḍī\") is a Libyan football club based in Beida, Libya.\n\n\n\n\n\"As of December 4, 2008\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2672077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672077", "title": "Atlantic University Sport", "text": "Atlantic University Sport\n\nAtlantic University Sport (AUS) is a regional membership association for universities in Atlantic Canada which assists in co-ordinating competition between their university level athletic programs and providing contact information, schedules, results, and releases about those programs and events to the public and the media. This is similar to what would be called a college athletic conference in the United States. The AUS, which covers Canada east of the province of Quebec, is one of four such bodies that are members of the country's governing body for university athletics, U Sports. The other three regional associations coordinating university-level sports in Canada are Ontario University Athletics (OUA), the Canada West Universities Athletic Association (CW), and Quebec Student Sport Federation (known by its French initialism of RSEQ).\n\nThe Atlantic Universities Athletics Association was founded in 1974, with the merging of the Atlantic Intercollegiate Athletic Association and the Atlantic Women's Intercollegiate Athletic Association. Prior to the acceptance of Memorial University of Newfoundland, the AIAA, which dates back to the late 19th century, was known as the Maritime Intercollegiate Athletic Association. The AUAA changed its name to Atlantic University Sport (AUS) in 1999.\n\nThe 2017–18 school year was the first in which AUS had a single-sport member.\nCanadian athletic facilities are often listed by their \"maximum capacity\", which is often an estimate of their largest recorded crowd in the facility. These maximum capacities can and often do include standing room patrons and attendees seated on grass surrounding a playing field. Seated Capacity is the actual number of permanent seats, be they grandstands or permanently in use bleachers. This is why you will sometimes see larger capacities listed for these sites when searching for them on line. When capacity numbers have mismatched on source sites, unless the larger capacity could be confirmed as a seated capacity, the smaller capacity number has been listed here.\n\nPlease update with verified \"seated capacities\" only when the institutions release more accurate official seated capacities.\n\n<div style=>\nMoncton has built a new 10,000-seat on-campus stadium designed in part to host football. It is unclear if the University will be adding the sport.\n"}
{"id": "22356586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22356586", "title": "Australian handball", "text": "Australian handball\n\nAustralian handball is a sport in which players hit a ball against one or more walls.\n\nAustralian handball is similar to squash played without a racquet. The ball is served such that it makes direct contact with the front wall without having bounced on the ground. It must then be returned similarly by the opponent to the front wall before the ball bounces on the ground twice. It may also contact side walls to or from the front wall, but once a player has struck the ball with hand, it must make contact with the front before touching the ground.\n\nThe game is played in singles or doubles format. There are 1, 3 or 4 wall versions of this game. The typical Australian version is the three wall version, as most courts in Australia are set for this version. Perhaps the bulk of these playing venues are set in various private Catholic Colleges.\n\nAustralian Handball (similar to Irish, Welsh and American handball) has been played formally in Australia, since 1923.\n\nAlthough its formal beginnings in Australia date from 1923, it has been played in some capacity or another since the 19th Century. A similar game was introduced from Ireland and the first Australian Handball court was built by Melbourne hotel-keeper, Michael Lynch, in 1847. Its early development has been attributed to the work of Christian Brothers' Colleges. Over most of its history, its primary play has been in Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales. As the game continued to develop, by 1970, there were about 1,000 players registered within the New South Wales, Victorian and South Australian state associations.\n\nFor many decades, the Australian Handball Council has held almost annual national championships, and each state has held its own state titles. Senior titles have not been the only level of keen interest and activity, however. During the 1950s' and 1960s, both – the Australian Singles Schoolboys Handball Championships and the Australian Doubles Schoolboys Handball Championships – were held on regular bases. Many great champions of the past were 'blooded' on these schoolboy rivalries. Additionally, over many decades Australians have made regular appearances at the World Junior and World Senior Titles. Within Australia, of more recent decades, the chief rivalries have been between Victoria and South Australia. For the past three decades, the states have generally engaged in some 'midpoint' venue – usually in Warrnambool, Victoria, over one weekend annually, for the national handball championships. In some areas, modern changes to school venues have meant the disappearance of the school's traditional handball courts, making it harder on handballers to access the game.\n\nThe game is nationally run by the Australian Handball Council, formed in 1928, of which the current Executive Director is Jim Kiley, and the Secretary/Treasurer – Greg Hay.\n\nA few highly respected names in the game's history include multi-national champions, The Legendary Jmaz, Tim Tucker and George Macris in the first half of the 20th Century, and John Hughes of Victoria, Paul Fallon, NSW, Lou Ravesi, SA and Vic DeLuzio and Geoff Walsh of Victoria, in the 2nd half.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "843341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=843341", "title": "Back walkover", "text": "Back walkover\n\nA back walkover is an acrobatic maneuver in which a person transitions from a standing position to a back bridge and then back to a standing position again, undergoing a complete revolution of the body in the process. Back walkovers are commonly performed in a variety of athletic activities, including acro dance, cheerleading, and rhythmic gymnastics. In artistic gymnastics, back walkovers are performed in floor exercises and on the balance beam.\n\nThe back walkover performer begins in a standing position. The back is increasingly arched and abdominal muscles are stretched until the hands touch the floor and all hands and feet are flat on the floor, thus forming a gymnastic back bridge. While in the bridge position, one leg (the \"leading\" leg) is rapidly raised from the floor so as to impart momentum to the lower body. This momentum lifts the trailing leg from the floor so that only the hands are left touching the floor. Both hands remain on the floor while the body revolves backward through a handstand position, until the foot of the leading leg, followed by the foot of the trailing leg, reach the floor. When both feet are on the floor, the performer returns to an erect standing position. In order to successfully perform the back walk over correctly you are going to need to have a strong core. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4444", "title": "Bandy", "text": "Bandy\n\nBandy is a team winter sport played on ice, in which skaters use sticks to direct a ball into the opposing team's goal.\n\nThe sport is considered a form of hockey and has a common background with association football, ice hockey and field hockey. Like football, the game is normally played in halves of 45 minutes each, there are eleven players on each team, and the bandy field is about the same size as a football pitch. It is played on ice like ice hockey, but like field hockey, players use bowed sticks and a small ball.\n\nA variant of bandy, rink bandy, is played to the same rules but on a field the size of an ice hockey rink, with ice hockey goal cages and with six players on each team, or five in USA Rink Bandy League. Traditional eleven-a-side bandy and rink bandy are recognised by the International Olympic Committee. More informal varieties also exist, like seven-a-side bandy with normally sized goal cages but without corner strokes. Those rules were applied at Davos Cup in 2016.\n\nRink bandy has in turn led to the creation of the sport rinkball. Bandy is also the predecessor of floorball, which was invented when people started playing with plastic bandy-shaped sticks and lightweight balls when running on the floors of indoor gym halls.\n\nBased on the number of participating athletes, bandy is the world's second-most participated winter sport after ice hockey. Bandy is also ranked as the number two winter sport in terms of tickets sold per day of competitions at the sport's world championship.\n\nHowever, compared with the seven Winter Olympic sports, bandy's popularity [among other winter sports] across the globe is considered by the International Olympic Committee to have a, \"gap between popularity and participation and global audiences\", which is a roadblock to future Olympic inclusion.\n\nThe earliest origin of the sport is debated. Though many Russians see their old countrymen as the creators of the sport – reflected by the unofficial title for bandy, \"Russian hockey\" (русский хоккей) – Russia, England and Holland each had sports or pastimes which can be seen as forerunners of the present sport.\n\nEnglish bandy developed as a winter sport in the Fens of East Anglia. Large expanses of ice would form on the flooded meadows or shallow washes in cold winters, and skating has been a tradition. Members of the Bury Fen Bandy Club published rules of the game in 1882, and introduced it into other countries. The first international match took place in 1891 between Bury Fen and the then Haarlemsche Hockey & Bandy Club from the Netherlands (a club which after a couple of club fusions now is named HC Bloemendaal). The same year, the National Bandy Association was started in England.\n\nThe match later dubbed \"the original bandy match\", was actually held in 1875 at The Crystal Palace in London. However, at the time, the game was called \"hockey on the ice\", probably as it was considered an ice variant of field hockey.\n\nThe first national bandy league was started in Sweden in 1902. Bandy was played at the Nordic Games in Stockholm and Kristiania (present day Oslo) in 1901, 1903, and 1905 and between Swedish, Finnish and Russian teams at similar games in Helsinki in 1907. A European championship was held in 1913 with eight countries participating.\n\nIn modern times, Russia has held a top position in the bandy area, both as a founding nation of the International Federation in 1955 and fielding the most successful team in the World Championships (when counting the previous Soviet Union team and Russia together).\n\nThe highest altitude where bandy has been played is in the capital of the Tajik autonomous province of Gorno-Badakhshan, Khorugh.\n\nAs a precursor to ice hockey bandy\nhas influenced its development and history – mainly in European and former Soviet countries. While modern ice hockey was created in Canada, a game more similar to bandy was played initially, after British soldiers introduced the game in the late 19th century. At the same time as modern ice-hockey rules were formalized in British North America (present day Canada), bandy rules were formulated in Europe. A cross between English and Russian bandy rules eventually developed, with the football-inspired English rules dominant, together with the Russian low border along most of the two sidelines, and this is the basis of the present sport since the 1950s.\n\nBefore Canadians introduced ice hockey into Europe in the early 20th century, \"hockey\" was another name for bandy, and still is in parts of Russia and Kazakhstan.\n\nWith football and bandy being dominant sports in parts of Europe, it was common for sports clubs to have bandy and football sections, with athletes playing both sports at different times of the year. Some examples are English Nottingham Forest Football and Bandy Club (today known just as Nottingham Forest F.C.) and Norwegian Strømsgodset IF and Mjøndalen IF, with the latter still having an active bandy section. In Sweden, most football clubs which were active during the first half of the 20th Century, also played bandy. Later, as the season for each sport increased in time, it wasn't as easy for the players to engage in both sports, so some clubs came to concentrate on one or the other. Many old clubs still have both sports on their program.\n\nBoth bandy and ice hockey were played in Europe during the 20th century, especially in Sweden, Finland, and Norway. Ice hockey became more popular than bandy in most of Europe mostly because it had become an Olympic sport, while bandy had not. Athletes in Europe who had played bandy switched to ice hockey in the 1920s to compete in the Olympics. The smaller ice fields needed for ice hockey also made its rinks easier to maintain, especially in countries with short winters. On the other hand, ice hockey was not played in the Soviet Union until the 1950s when the USSR wanted to compete internationally. The typical European style of ice hockey, with flowing, less physical play, represents a heritage of bandy.\n\nThe sport's English name comes from the verb \"to bandy\", from the Middle French \"bander\" (\"to strike back and forth\"), and originally referred to a 17th-century Irish game similar to field hockey. The curved stick was also called a \"bandy\". The etymological connection to the similarly named Welsh hockey game of bando is not clear.\n\nAn old name for bandy is \"hockey on the ice\"; in the first rule books from England at the turn of the Century 1900, the sport is literally called \"bandy or hockey on the ice\". Since the mid-20th century the term bandy is usually preferred to prevent confusion with ice hockey.\n\nThe sport is known as bandy in many languages though there are a few notable exceptions. In Russian bandy is called \"Russian hockey\" (русский хоккей) or more frequently, and officially, \"hockey with a ball\" (xоккей с мячом) while ice hockey is called \"hockey with a puck\" (xоккей с шайбой) or more frequently just \"hockey\". If the context makes it clear that bandy is the subject, it as well can be called just \"hockey\". In Belarusian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian it is also called \"hockey with a ball\" (хакей з мячoм, хокей з м'ячем and хокей с топка respectively). In Slovak \"bandy hockey\" (bandyhokej) is the name. In Armenian, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Mongol and Uzbek, bandy is known as \"ball hockey\" (Հոկեյ գնդակով, допты хоккей, топтуу хоккей, бөмбөгтэй хоккей and koptokli xokkey respectively). In Finnish the two sports are distinguished as \"ice ball\" (jääpallo) and \"ice puck\" (jääkiekko), as well as in Hungarian (jéglabda; jégkorong), although in Hungarian it is more often called \"bandy\" nowadays. In Estonian bandy is also called \"ice ball\" (jääpall). In Mandarin Chinese it is \"bandy ball\" (班迪球). In Scottish Gaelic the name is \"ice shinty\" (camanachd-deighe). In old times shinty or shinney were also sometimes used in English for bandy.\n\nBandy is played on ice, using a single round ball. Two teams of 11 players each compete to get the ball into the other team's goal using sticks, thereby scoring a goal.\n\nThe game is designed to be played on a rectangle of ice the same size as a football field. Bandy also has other rules that are similar to football. Each team has 11 players, one of whom is a goalkeeper. The offside rule is also employed. A goal cannot be scored from a goal throw, but unlike football, a goal can be scored from a stroke-in or a corner stroke. All free strokes are \"direct\" and allow a goal to be scored without another player touching the ball.\n\nThe team that has scored more goals at the end of the game is the winner. If both teams have scored an equal number of goals, then, with some exceptions, the game is a draw.\n\nThe primary rule is that the players (other than the goalkeepers) may not intentionally touch the ball with their heads, hands or arms during play. Although players usually use their sticks to move the ball around, they may use any part of their bodies other than their heads, hands or arms and may use their skates in a limited manner. Heading the ball results in a five-minute penalty.\n\nIn typical game play, players attempt to propel the ball toward their opponents' goal through individual control of the ball, such as by dribbling, passing the ball to a teammate, and taking shots at the goal, which is guarded by the opposing goalkeeper. Opposing players may try to regain control of the ball by intercepting a pass or through tackling the opponent who controls the ball. However, physical contact between opponents is limited. Bandy is generally a free-flowing game, with play stopping only when the ball has left the field of play, or when play is stopped by the referee. After a stoppage, play can recommence with a free stroke, a penalty shot or a corner stroke. If the ball has left the field along the sidelines, the referee must decide which team touched the ball last, and award a restart stroke to the opposing team, just like football's throw-in.\n\nThe rules do not specify any player positions other than goalkeeper, but a number of player specialisations have evolved. Broadly, these include three main categories: forwards, whose main task is to score goals; defenders, who specialise in preventing their opponents from scoring; and midfielders, who take the ball from the opposition and pass it to the forwards. Players in these positions are referred to as outfield players, to discern them from the single goalkeeper. These positions are further differentiated by which side of the field the player spends most time in. For example, there are central defenders, and left and right midfielders. The ten outfield players may be arranged in these positions in any combination (for example, there may be three defenders, five midfielders, and two forwards), and the number of players in each position determines the style of the team's play; more forwards and fewer defenders would create a more aggressive and offensive-minded game, while the reverse would create a slower, more defensive style of play. While players may spend most of the game in a specific position, there are few restrictions on player movement, and players can switch positions at any time. The layout of the players on the pitch is called the team's \"formation\", and defining the team's formation and tactics is usually the prerogative of the team's manager(s).\n\n\nThere are eighteen rules in official play, designed to apply to all levels of bandy, although certain modifications for groups such as juniors, veterans or women are permitted. The rules are often framed in broad terms, which allow flexibility in their application depending on the nature of the game.\n\nThe Bandy Playing Rules can be found on the official website of the Federation of International Bandy, and are overseen by the Rules and Referee Committee.\n\nEach team consists of a maximum of 11 players (excluding substitutes), one of whom must be the goalkeeper. A team of fewer than eight players may not start a game. Goalkeepers are the only players allowed to play the ball with their hands or arms, and they are only allowed to do so within the penalty area in front of their own goal.\n\nThough there are a variety of positions in which the outfield (non-goalkeeper) players are strategically placed by a coach, these positions are not defined or required by the rules of the game.\n\nThe positions and formations of the players in bandy are virtually the same as the common association football positions and the same terms are used for the different positions of the players. A team usually consists of defenders, midfielders and forwards. The defenders can play in the form of centre-backs, full-backs and sometimes wing-backs, midfielders playing in the centre, attacking or defensive, and forwards in the form of centre forward, second strikers and sometimes a winger. Sometimes one player is also taking up the role of a libero.\n\nAny number of players may be replaced by substitutes during the course of the game. Substitutions can be performed without notifying the referee and can be performed while the ball is in play. However, if the substitute enters the ice before his teammate has left it, this will result in a five-minute ban. A team can bring at the most four substitutes to the game and one of these is likely to be an extra goalkeeper.\n\nA game is officiated by a referee, the authority and enforcer of the rules, whose decisions are final. The referee may have one or two assistant referees. A secretary outside of the field often takes care of the match protocol.\n\n\nThe basic equipment players are required to wear includes a pair of Bandy skates, a helmet, a mouth guard and, in the case of the goalkeeper, a face guard.\n\nThe teams must wear uniforms that make it easy to distinguish the two teams. The goal keeper wears distinct colours to single him out from his or her teammates, just as in football. The skates, sticks and any tape on the stick must be of another colour than the bandy ball, which shall be orange or cerise.\n\nIn addition to the aforementioned, various protections are used to protect knees, elbows, genitals and throat. The pants and gloves may contain padding.\n\n\nThe stick used in bandy is an essential part of the sport. It should be made of an approved material such as wood or a similar material and should not contain any metal or sharp parts which can hurt the surrounding players. Sticks are crooked and are available in five angles, where 1 has the smallest bend and 5 has the most. Bend 4 is the most common size in professional bandy. The bandy stick should not have similar colours to the ball, such as orange or pink; it should be no longer than , and no wider than .\n\n\nA bandy field is by , a total of , or about the same size as a football pitch and considerably larger than an ice hockey rink. Along the sidelines a high border (vant, sarg, wand, wall) is placed to prevent the ball from leaving the ice. It should not be attached to the ice, to glide upon collisions, and should end away from the corners.\n\nCentered at each shortline is a wide and high goal cage and in front of the cage is a half-circular penalty area with a radius. A penalty spot is located in front of the goal and there are two free-stroke spots at the penalty area line, each surrounded by a circle.\n\nA centre spot with a circle of radius denotes the center of the field. A centre-line is drawn through the centre spot parallel with the shortlines.\n\nAt each of the corners, a radius quarter-circle is drawn, and a dotted line is painted parallel to the shortline and away from it without extending into the penalty area. The dotted line can be replaced with a long line starting at the edge of the penalty area and extending towards the sideline, from the shortline.\n\nA standard adult bandy match consists of two periods of 45 minutes each, known as halves. Each half runs continuously, meaning the clock is not stopped when the ball is out of play; the referee can, however, make allowance for time lost through significant stoppages as described below. There is usually a 15-minute half-time break. The end of the match is known as full-time.\n\nThe referee is the official timekeeper for the match, and may make an allowance for time lost through substitutions, injured players requiring attention, or other stoppages. This added time is commonly referred to as \"stoppage time\" or \"injury time\", and must be reported to the match secretary and the two captains. The referee alone signals the end of the match.\n\nIf it is very cold or if it is snowing, the match can be broken into thirds of 30 minutes each. At the extremely cold 1999 World Championship some matches were played in four periods of 15 minutes each and with extra long breaks in between. In the World Championships the two halves can be 30 minutes each for the nations in the B division.\n\nIn league competitions games may end in a draw, but in some knockout competitions if a game is tied at the end of regulation time it may go into extra time, which consists of two further 15-minute periods. If the score is still tied after extra time, the game will be replayed. As an alternative, the extra two times 15-minutes may be played as \"golden goal\" which means the first team that scores during the extra-time wins the game. If both extra periods are played without a scored goal, a penalty shootout will settle the game. The teams shoot five penalties each and if this doesn't settle the game, the teams shoot one more penalty each until one of them misses and the other scores.\n\n\nUnder the rules, the two basic states of play during a game are \"ball in play\" and \"ball out of play\". From the beginning of each playing period with a stroke-off (a set strike from the centre-spot by one team) until the end of the playing period, the ball is in play at all times, except when either the ball leaves the field of play, or play is stopped by the referee. When the ball becomes out of play, play is restarted by one of six restart methods depending on how it went out of play:\n\nIf the time runs out while a team is preparing for a free-stroke or penalty, the strike should still be made but it must go into the goal by one shot to count as a goal. Similarly, a goal made via a corner stroke should be allowed, but it must be executed using only one shot in addition to the strike needed to put the ball in play.\n\nFree-strokes can be awarded to a team if a player of the opposite team breaks any rule, for example, by hitting with the stick against the opponent's stick or skates. Free-strokes can also be awarded upon incorrect execution of corner-strikes, free-strikes, goal-throws, and so on. or the use of incorrect equipment, such as a broken stick.\n\nRather than stopping play, the referee may allow play to continue when its continuation will benefit the team against which an offence has been committed. This is known as \"playing an advantage\". The referee may \"call back\" play and penalise the original offence if the anticipated advantage does not ensue within a short period of time, typically taken to be four to five seconds. Even if an offence is not penalised because the referee plays an advantage, the offender may still be sanctioned (see below) for any associated misconduct at the next stoppage of play.\n\nIf a defender violently attacks an opponent within the penalty area, a penalty shot is awarded. Certain other offences, when carried out within the penalty area, result in a penalty shot provided there is a goal situation. These include a defender holding or hooking an attacker, or blocking a goal situation with a lifted skate, thrown stick or glove and so on. Also, the defenders (with the exception of the goal-keeper) are not allowed to kneel or lie on the ice. The final offences that might mandate a penalty shot are those of hitting or blocking an opponent's stick or touching the ball with the hands, arms, stick or head. If any of these actions is carried out in a non-goal situation, they shall be awarded with a free-stroke from one of the free-stroke spots at the penalty area line. A penalty shot should always be accompanied by a 5 or 10 minutes penalty (see below). If the penalty results in a goal, the penalty should be considered personal meaning that a substitute can be sent in for the penalised player. This does not apply in the event of a red card (see below).\n\nA ten-minute penalty is indicated through the use of a blue card and can be caused by protesting or behaving incorrectly, attacking an opponent violently or stopping the ball incorrectly to get an advantage.\n\nThe third time a player receives a penalty, it will be a personal penalty, meaning he or she will miss the remainder of the match. A substitute can enter the field after five or ten minutes. A full game penalty can be received upon using abusive language or directly attacking an opponent and means that the player can neither play nor be substituted for the remainder of the game. A match penalty is indicated through the use of a red card.\n\nThe offside rule effectively limits the ability of attacking players to remain forward (i.e. closer to the opponent's goal-line) of the ball, the second-to-last defending player (which can include the goalkeeper), and the half-way line. This rule is in effect just like that of soccer.\n\nThe Federation of International Bandy (FIB) has had 33 members at most. Currently, 27 members are a part. Formed in 1955, the name was changed from \"International Bandy Federation\" in 2001 after the International Olympic Committee approved it as a so-called \"recognized sport\"; the abbreviation \"IBF\" was already used by another recognized sports federation. In 2004, FIB was fully accepted by IOC.\n\nFIB is now a member of Association of IOC Recognised International Sports Federations.\n\nThe Bandy World Championship for men is arranged by the FIB and was first held in 1957. It was held every two years starting in 1961, and every year since 2003. Currently the record number of countries participating in the World Championships is eighteen. Since the number of countries playing bandy is not large, every country which can set up a team is welcome to take part in the World Championship. The quality of the teams varies; however, with only six nations, Sweden, the Soviet Union, Russia, Finland, Norway, and Kazakhstan, having won medals (allowing for the fact that Russia's team took over from the Soviet Union in 1993). Finland won the 2004 world championship in Västerås, Sweden, while all other championships have been won by Sweden, the Soviet Union and Russia.\n\nIn February 2004, Sweden won the first World Championship for women, hosted in Finland, without conceding a goal. In the 2014 women's World Championship Russia won, for the first time toppling the Swedes from the throne. In 2016 Sweden took the title back. In 2018 the tournament was played in a totally Asian country for the first time when Chengde in China hosted it.\n\nThe same goes for the men's tournament (the area north and west of the Ural River is located in Europe, thus Kazakhstan is a transcontinental country), when Harbin hosted the 2018 Division B tournament.\n\nThere are also Youth Bandy World Championships in different age groups for boys and young men and in one age group for girls. The oldest group is the under 23 championship, Bandy World Championship Y-23.\n\nBandy is recognized by the International Olympic Committee, and was played as a demonstration sport at the 1952 Winter Olympics in Oslo. However, it has yet to officially be played at the Olympics.\n\nFIB president Boris Skrynnik lobbied for Bandy to be included in the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, given Russia's prominence in the sport. Members of the Chinese Olympic Committee were present at the 2017 world championships to meet with Skrynnik about the possibility of considering the sport for the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing. However, in 2018 it was announced no new sports would be added for 2022.\n\nCompared with the seven Winter Olympic sports, bandy's popularity across the globe is considered by the International Olympic Committee to have a, \"gap between popularity and participation and global audiences\", which is a roadblock into future Olympic inclusion.\n\nAt the 2011 Asian Winter Games, open to members of the Olympic Council of Asia, men's bandy was included for the first time. Three teams contested the inaugural competition, and Kazakhstan won the gold medal. President Nursultan Nazarbayev attended the final.\n\nThere was no bandy competition at the 2017 Asian Winter Games in Japan.\n\nBandy will make its debut at the Winter Universiade during the 2019 Games. A six team tournament for men and a four team tournament for women will be held. Participating teams among men will be Russia, Sweden, Finland, Kazakhstan, Norway and China, while among women Russia, Sweden, Norway and USA will play.\n\nThe World Championships should not be confused with the annual World Cup in Ljusdal, Sweden, which has been played annually since the 1970s and is the biggest bandy tournament for elite level club teams. It is played indoors in Sandviken since 2009 because Ljusdal has no indoor arena. It is expected to return to Ljusdal once an indoor arena has been built. World Cup matches are played day and night, and the tournament is played in four days in late October. The teams participating are mostly, and some years exclusively, from Sweden and Russia, which has the two best leagues in the world.\n\nSince 2007, there is also a Bandy World Cup Women for women's teams.\n\nRink bandy is a variety played on an ice hockey-size rink. It was in the programme of the 2012 European Company Sports Games.\nSome FIB countries don't have a large ice surface and only play rink bandy at home; this includes most of the World Championships Group B participants.\n\nThe China Bandy Federation was set up in 2014 and China has since then participated in a number of world championship tournaments, with men's, women's and youth teams. China Bandy is mainly financed by private resources. The development of the sport in China is supported by the Harbin Sport University.\n\nThe first recorded games of bandy on ice took place in The Fens during the great frost of 1813–1814, although it is probable that the game had been played there in the previous century. Bury Fen Bandy Club from Bluntisham-cum-Earith, near St Ives, was the most successful team, remaining unbeaten until the winter of 1890–1891. Charles G Tebbutt of the Bury Fen bandy club was responsible for the first published rules of bandy in 1882, and also for introducing the game into the Netherlands and Sweden, as well as elsewhere in England where it became popular with cricket, rowing and hockey clubs. Tebbutt's home-made bandy stick can be seen in the Norris Museum in St Ives.\n\nThe first Ice Hockey Varsity Matches between Oxford University and Cambridge University were played to bandy rules, even if it was called hockey on ice at the time.\n\nEngland won the European Bandy Championships in 1913, but that turned out to be the grand finale, and bandy is now virtually unknown in England. In March 2004, Norwegian ex-player Edgar Malman invited two big clubs to play a rink bandy exhibition game in Streatham, London. Russian\nChampions and World Cup Winner Vodnik met Swedish Champions Edsbyns IF in a match that ended 10–10. In 2010 England became a Federation of International Bandy member. The federation is based in Cambridgeshire, the historical heartland.\n\nThe England Bandy Federation, now the Great Britain Bandy Federation, was set up on 2 January 2017 at a meeting held in the historic old skaters public house, the Lamb and Flag in Welney in Norfolk, replacing the Bandy Federation of England which was founded in 2010. President is Rev Lyn Gibb-de Swarte of Littleport and past resident of Streatham in south west London, where she was chair of the Streatham ice speed club, ice hockey club and of the association of ice clubs etc. Vice Presidents; Simon Seager and Les Mead. Chair is Andrew Hutchinson. Treasurer and Gen Secretary is Tammy Nichol Twallin and Asstant Gen Sec. Karen Mead. Fixtures and Minutes Secretary, Cathy Gibb-de Swarte. Participation Officer, Anders Gidrup. Recruitment UK is Oscar Gillingham Aukner. They are all busy promoting the sport for all and will be instituting rink bandy around the country. The president is the project director of the Littleport Ice Stadium Project and plans are already drawn for a 400 metres indoor speed skating oval and an inner ice pad 100 x 60 metres bandy pitch. In September 2017, the federation decided to widen its territory to all of the United Kingdom and changed its name to Great Britain Bandy Federation.\n\nBandy was played in Estonia in the 1910s to 1930s and the country had a national championship for some years. The national team played friendlies against Finland in the 1920s and '30s. The sport was played sporadically during Soviet occupation 1944-1991. It has since then become more organised again, partly through exchange with Finnish clubs and enthusiasts. As of 2018, Estonia takes part in both the men's and the Women's Bandy World Championship.\n\n\nBandy was introduced to Finland from Russia in the 1890s. Finland has been playing bandy friendlies against Sweden and Estonia since its independence in 1917.\n\nThe first Finnish national championships were held in 1908 and was the first national Finnish championship held in any team sport. National champions have been named every year except for three years in the first half of the 20th Century when Finland was at war. The top national league is called Bandyliiga and is semi-professional. The best players often go fully professional by being recruited by clubs in Sweden or Russia.\n\nFinland was an original member of the Federation of International Bandy and is the only country beside Russia/Soviet Union and Sweden to have won a Bandy World Championship, which it did in 2004.\n\n\nBandy was played in Germany in the early 20th century, including by Crown Prince Wilhelm, but the interest died out in favour of ice hockey. Leipziger Sportclub had the best team and was also last to give bandy up. The sport was reintroduced in the 2010s, with the German Bandy Association being founded in 2013. A national rink bandy championship has been played every year since the winter of 2014/15.\n\n\nBandy has a long history in many parts of the country and it used to be one of the most popular sports in Soviet times. However, after independence it suffered a rapid decline in popularity and only remained in Oral (often called by the Russian name, Uralsk), where the country's only professional club Akzhaiyk is located. They are competing in the Russian second tier division, the Supreme League. Recently bandy has started to gain popularity again outside of Oral, most notably in Petropavl and Khromtau. Those were for example the three Kazakh cities which at the Youth-17 World Championship 2016 had players in the team. The capital Astana has hosted national youth championships in rink bandy. as well as championships in traditional eleven-a-side bandy. The former capital Almaty has in recent years hosted both the Asian Winter Games (with bandy on the program) as well as the Bandy World Championship in which Kazakhstan finished 3rd. Plans are made to reinvigorate the bandy section of the club Dynamo Almaty, who won the Soviet Championships in 1977 and 1990 as well as the European Cup in 1978. The Asian Bandy Federation also has its headquarters in Almaty. Since a few years the state is supporting bandy. Medeu in Almaty is the only arena with artificial ice. A second arena in Almaty was built for the World Championship 2012, but it was taken down afterwards. Stadion Yunost in Oral will get artificial ice for the 2017-18 season.\n\nThe national team took a silver medal at the 2011 Asian Winter Games, which led to being chosen as the best Mongolian sport team of 2011. Mongolia was proud to win the bronze medal of the B division at the 2017 Bandy World Championship after which the then President of Mongolia, Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj, held a reception for the team.\n\n\nBandy was introduced to the Netherlands in the 1890s by Pim Mulier and the sport became popular. However, in the 1920s, the interest turned to ice hockey, but in contrast to other countries in central and western Europe, the sport has been continuously played in the Netherlands and since the 1970s, the country has become a member of FIB and games have been more formalised again. The national team started to compete at the WCS in 1991. However, without a proper venue, only rink bandy is played within the country. The national governing body is the Bandy Bond Nederland.\n\nBandy was introduced to Norway in the 1910s. The Swedes contributed largely, and clubs sprang up around the capital of Oslo. Oslo, including neighbouring towns, is still today the region where bandy enjoys most popularity in Norway.\n\nIn 1912 the Norwegians played their first National Championship, which was played annually up to 1940. During WWII, illegal bandy was played in hidden places in forests, on ponds and lakes. In 1943, −44 and −45, illegal championships were held. In 1946 legal play resumed and still goes on. After WWII the number of teams rose, as well as attendance which regularly were in the thousands, but mild winters in the 1970s and 80s shrunk the league, and in 2003 only 5 clubs (teams) fought out the 1st division with low attendance numbers and little media coverage.\n\nIn recent years, the number of artificially frozen pitches have increased in Norway, and more sports clubs have reinvigorated their bandy sections with new men's and youth teams. Because of this, as well as an increase of Swedish players in Norway, the competitiveness of the game has risen, especially in the first division Eliteserien. The adult men's game in Norway today consists of Eliteserien with eight teams, as well as three lower divisions. Bandy in Norway has also started to spread geographically, but some clubs in apart locations in the 3rd division only have access to ice hockey rinks and therefore play rink bandy for home games. Compared to the past, attendance is still fairly low, but important Eliteserien matches can attract around 1000 spectators.\n\n\nIn Russia bandy is known as hockey with a ball or simply Russian hockey. A similar game became popular among the Russian nobility in the early 1700s, with the imperial court of Peter the Great playing a predecessor of modern bandy on Saint Petersburg's frozen Neva river. Russians played this game using ordinary footwear, with sticks made out of juniper wood, only later were skates introduced. It was only in the second half of the 19th century that bandy became popular among the masses throughout the Russian Empire. Traditionally the Russians used a longer skate blade than other nations, giving them the advantage of skating faster. However, they would find it more difficult to turn quickly. A bandy skate has a longer blade than a hockey skate, and the \"Russian skate\" is even longer.\n\nWhen the Federation of International Bandy was formed in 1955, with the Soviet Union as one of its founding members, the Russians largely adopted the international rules of the game developed in England in the 19th century, with one notable exception. The other countries adopted the border.\n\nBandy is considered a national sport in Russia and is the only discipline to have official support of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe Russian Bandy Super League is played every year and the winner in the final becomes Russian champion. The Russian Cup has been played annually (except for just some years) since 1937.\n\nAfter the victory in the 2016 World Championship, the fourth in a row, President Putin received four players of the national team, Head Coach and Vice-President of the Russian Bandy Federation Sergey Myaus, the Russian Bandy Federation as well as Federation of International Bandy President Boris Skrynnik in The Kremlin. He talked, among other things, about the need to give more support to Russian bandy. It was the first time a head of state had accepted a meeting to talk about Russian bandy. Attending the meeting were also Minister of Sport, Tourism and Youth policy Vitaly Mutko and presidential adviser Igor Levitin. The month after, Igor Levitin held a follow-up meeting.\n\nBandy was introduced to Sweden in 1895. The Swedish royal family, noblemen and diplomats were the first players. Swedish championships for men have been played annually since 1907. In the 1920s students played the game and it became a largely middle class sport. After Slottsbrons IF won the Swedish championship in 1934 it became popular amongst workers in the smaller industrial towns and villages. Bandy remains the main sport in many of these places.\n\nBandy in Sweden is famous for its \"culture\" – both playing bandy and being a spectator requires great fortitude and dedication. A \"bandy briefcase\" (\"bandyportfölj\" in Swedish) is the classic accessory for spectating – it is typically made of brown leather, well worn and contains a warm drink in a thermos and/or a bottle of liquor.\nBandy is most often played at outdoor arenas during winter time, so the need for spectators to carry flasks or thermoses of 'warming' liquid like glögg is a natural effect.\n\nA notable tradition is \"annandagsbandy\", bandy games played on Saint Stephen's Day, which for many Swedes is an important Christmas season tradition and always draws bigger crowds than usual. Games traditionally begin at 1:15 pm.\n\nThe final match for the Swedish Championship is played every year on the third Saturday of March. From 1991 to 2012, it was played at Studenternas Idrottsplats in Uppsala, often drawing crowds in excess of 20,000. The reason the play-off match was set in Uppsala is because of IFK Uppsala's success in the beginning of the 20th century. IFK Uppsala won 11 titles in the Swedish Championships between 1907 and 1920, which made them the most successful bandy club in the entire country. Now, however, the record is held by Västerås SK. A contributing factor was the poor quality of the ice at Söderstadion, where the finals were held from 1967 to 1989.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014 the final was played indoors in Friends Arena, the national stadium for football in Solna, Stockholm, with a retractable roof and a capacity of 50 000. The first final at Friends Arena in 2013 drew a record crowd of 38,474 when Hammarby IF Bandy, after ending up in second place in six finals during the 2000s, won their second title. Due to declining attendance since, for 2015 through 2017 Tele2 Arena in southern Stockholm was chosen as a new venue. However, the new indoor venue failed to attract much more than half of the total capacity. In May 2017 it was announced that the finals will again be held at Studenternas IP in Uppsala from 2018 to 2021.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th Century, Switzerland had become a popular place for winter vacations and people went there from all over Europe. Winter sports like skiing, sledding and bandy was played in Geneva and other towns. Students from Oxford and Cambridge went to Switzerland to play each other – the predecessor of the recurring Ice Hockey Varsity Match was a bandy match played in St. Moritz in 1885. This popularity for Swiss venues of winter sport may have been a reason, the European Championship was held there in 1913.\n\nBandy has mainly been played as a recreational sport in Switzerland in the last decade, but a Swiss national team took part in the 2018 Women's Bandy World Championship.\n\nBandy was played in Ukraine when it was part of the Soviet Union. After independence in 1991, it took some years before organised bandy formed again, but Ukrainian champions have been named annually since 2012.\n\n\nBandy has been played in the United States since around 1980. The activity is mainly centred to Minnesota even if a fan interest also exists in other states. The bandy clubs in the US only have teams but the interest is stable and even if some clubs fold after only some years, other clubs have been around from the start and have a steady following. The United States national bandy team has taken part in the Bandy World Championships since 1985 and is also regularly playing friendlies against Canada.\n\nUnited States bandy championships have been played annually since the early 1980s, but the league is still not widely followed by sports media in the country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43314846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43314846", "title": "Bhutan Clearing F.C.", "text": "Bhutan Clearing F.C.\n\nBhutan Clearing were a football club from Phuentsholing, Bhutan who compete in the Bhutan National League, the highest level of football in Bhutan.\n\nThe first recorded mention of Bhutan Clearing competing at any level of football in Bhutan is in 2012, when they competed in the B-Division, the third tier of football in Bhutan, when RSSSF reported a team known as Bhutan Clearance competing, though their final position is not recorded. The B-Division is the division below the A-Division, the competition which provides the Thimphu-based qualifiers for the National League. Despite this being a traditionally Thimphu-centred competition, Bhutan Clearing competed and were the only team from outside Thimphu to do so. Their final position is not known, although they can have finished no higher than third, as the final play-off match was contested by BMW FC and Motithang. The only known results for the club from this season are a 4–2 victory over Rigzung and a 3–0 defeat of the Bhutan national under sixteen team.\n\nIn 2014, they entered the National League for the first time, one of two teams in addition to Ugyen Academy from outside Thimphu who did. Unfortunately, their first appearance in the National League was a disappointing one, as they finished last in the league, their only point coming from a 2–2 draw with Druk Star. Additionally, outside of this draw, they only scored two more goals, one each against Druk Pol and Druk United and also suffered a 0–16 defeat to Thimphu City.\nIn 2017 they dissolved due to financial reasons.\n"}
{"id": "414184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414184", "title": "Black Africa S.C.", "text": "Black Africa S.C.\n\nBlack Africa Sports Club is a Namibian football team from Katutura, Windhoek that plays in the Namibia Premier League.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42031171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42031171", "title": "BodyCode Training System", "text": "BodyCode Training System\n\nBodyCode Training System is a technique for evaluating and correcting movement patterns using specifically designed equipment. It deals with how people construct awkward postures, and how to maintain and apply intervention strategies to correct them. It was developed in the 1990s by Pino Carbone. It is mainly used by dancers and athletes but can be used by anybody. It is among the curricula of Boston Ballet School, the Chinese National Ballet, English National Ballet School, and other private ballet school.\n\nBodyCode Training System includes aerobic and anaerobic activities, isometric and isotonic exercises and proprioceptive movement, as well as static and dynamic activities. The specific set of exercises suitable for an individual is designed by a trainer after a postural examination. In 2004, Carbone was awarded Geneva’s international inventor’s prize for designing BodyCode equipment called SpheralMind.\n\nBodyCode Training System was developed by Pino Carbone. Carbone was a professional dancer for several years before he had an accident in the 1980s during the rehearsal of a ballet that affected his back and resulted in a herniated disc. Following his injury, he had to incorporate acupuncture, Pilates, Gyrotonics yoga, massage and physical therapy in his regimen in order to continue with his dancing. At that time, he started research to develop a training system for strengthening and stretching muscles without the risk of injury that he could use. After several years of research and work, he developed the BodyCode System in the 1990s. According to Carbone, he was tired of dancing in pain. He wanted to settle down and open his own studio. By then he was already doing Gyrotonics with Juliu Horvath, in New York City, so he decided to open his first studio in Florence and offer training that combined principles of yoga, dance, Gyrotonics and Pilates.\n\nAlthough Carbone primarily worked with dancers and athletes, in the early 1990s, he began collaborating with orthopaedics, neurosurgeons and other medical specialists. Currently, it is taught in dance programs worldwide.\n\nBodyCode exercises are based on the principles of harmonizing body and mind. The basis of the method is to restore the physical as well as mental balance. Theories of BodyCode have oriental roots and are related to acupuncture, yoga, dance and feng shui. It draws influences from Gyrotonics as well as Pilates.\n\nBodyCode also employs basic principles of traditional gymnastics and dance movements. The purpose of the method is to improve the body movement and postural alignment. BodyCode Training System includes aerobic and anaerobic activities, isometric and isotonic exercises and proprioception exercises as well as static and dynamic activities. It deals with how people construct awkward postures, and how to maintain and apply intervention strategies to correct them.\n\nThere are various pieces of equipment designed by Carbone for performing different body movements. Some of these are handmade and include \"Pegasus\", \"SpheralMind\", \"ProArch\", \"Geometrix\", \"Elvis\", \"Dance Ruler\" and \"MasterStretch\". \"MasterStretch\" is developed for improving the flexibility of the spine and coordination and proprioception.\n\nCarbone holds the trademark for BodyCode system as well as several equipment design patents. Only legally authorized instructors can lawfully provide BodyCode training. Before beginning BodyCode training, an individual's posture and balance are evaluated in order to determine their weaknesses and their requirements. Following this assessment, the instructor prepares a program that is focused on rebalancing the body. The first phase of evaluating body posture is called \"decoding\" and the second phase of training to improve balance is called \"coding\".\n\nBodyCode uses the concept of work-in as opposed to work-out. According to this concept, the physical imbalance, stress, trauma, bad habits and poor posture should not be corrected externally but internally. The individuals while practising this technique are taught to be aware of their body characteristics and how to train it.\n\nThe BodyCode System was featured in Marie Claire Spanish in the article \"Top ten en gimnasios - El más barato (Top ten cheapest gym equipment)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "875871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875871", "title": "Bowling average", "text": "Bowling average\n\nThe bowling average is one of a number of statistics used to compare bowlers in the sport of cricket. It is the ratio of runs conceded per wickets taken, meaning that the lower the bowling average is, the better the bowler is performing. The bowling average is commonly used alongside the economy rate and the strike rate to judge the overall performance of a bowler. Where a bowler has taken only a small number of wickets, their average can be artificially low, and an increase in wickets taken can result in large changes in their bowling average. Due to this, qualification caveats are generally applied to determine career records for bowling averages. After applying these criteria, George Lohmann holds the record for the lowest average in Test cricket, having claimed 112 wickets at an average of 10.75.\n\nA cricketer's bowling average is calculated by dividing the numbers of runs they have conceded by the number of wickets they have taken. The number of runs conceded by a bowler is determined as the total number of runs that the opposing side have scored while the bowler was bowling, excluding any byes, leg byes, or penalty runs. The bowler receives credit for any wickets taken during their bowling that are either bowled, caught, hit wicket, leg before wicket or stumped.\n\nformula_1\n\nA number of flaws have been identified for the statistic, most notable among these the fact that a bowler who has taken no wickets can not have a bowling average, as dividing by zero does not give a result. The effect of this is that the bowling average can not distinguish between a bowler who has taken no wickets and conceded one run, and a bowler who has taken no wickets and conceded one hundred runs. The bowling average also does not tend to give a true reflection of the bowler's ability when the number of wickets they have taken is small, especially in comparison to the number of runs they have conceded. In his paper proposing an alternative method of judging batsmen and bowlers, Paul van Staden gives an example of this:\n\nSuppose a bowler has bowled a total of 80 balls, conceded 60 runs and has taken only 2 wickets so that.. [their average is] 30. If the bowler takes a wicket with the next ball bowled (no runs obviously conceded), then [their average is] 20.\n\nDue to this, when establishing records for bowling averages, qualification criteria are generally set. For Test cricket, the \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\" sets this as 75 wickets, while ESPNcricinfo requires 2,000 deliveries. Similar restrictions are set for one-day cricket.\n\nA number of factors other than purely the ability level of the bowler have an effect on a player's bowling average. Most significant among these are the different eras in which cricket has been played. The bowling average tables in Test and first-class cricket are headed by players who competed in the nineteenth century, a period when pitches were uncovered and some were so badly looked after that they had rocks on them. Other factors which provided an advantage to bowlers in that era was the lack of significant safety equipment; batting gloves and helmets were not worn, and batsmen had to be warier. Other variations are caused by frequent matches against stronger or weaker opposition, changes in the laws of cricket and the length of matches. The bowlers competing in the Howa Bowl, a competition played in South African during the apartheid-era, restricted to non-white players, during which time, according to Vincent Barnes: \"Most of the wickets we played on were underprepared. For me, as a bowler, it was great.\"\n\nDue to the varying restrictions placed on the records by different statisticians, the record for the lowest career bowling average can be different from publication to publication. In Test cricket, George Lohmann is listed as having the superior average by each of the \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\", ESPNcricinfo and CricketArchive. Though all three use different restrictions, Lohmann's average of 10.75 is considered the best. If no qualification criteria were applied at all, three players—Wilf Barber, A. N. Hornby and Bruce Murray—would tie for the best average, all having claimed just one wicket in Test matches, without conceding any runs, thus averaging zero.\n\nIn One Day Internationals, the varying criteria set by ESPNcricinfo and CricketArchive result in different players being listed as holding the record. ESPNcricinfo has the stricter restriction, requiring 1,000 deliveries: by this measure, Joel Garner is the record-holder, having claimed his wickets at an average of 18.84. By CricketArchive's more relaxed requirement of 400 deliveries, John Snow leads the way, with an average of 16.57. The record is again split for the two websites for Twenty20 International cricket; in this situation ESPNcricinfo has the lower boundary, requiring just 30 balls to have been bowled. George O'Brien's average of 8.20 holds the record using those criteria, but the stricter 200 deliveries required by CricketArchive results in Andre Botha being listed as the superior, averaging 8.76. The variations continue in women's international cricket; ESPNcricinfo list Betty Wilson as having the best Test average with 11.80, while CricketArchive accept Mary Spear's average of 5.78. In women's One Day International cricket, Caroline Barrs tops the CricketArchive list with an average of 9.52, but by ESPNcricinfo's stricter guidelines, the record is instead held by Gill Smith's 12.53.\n\nDomestically, the records for first-class cricket are dominated by players from the nineteenth century, who make up sixteen of the top twenty by ESPNcricinfo's criteria of 5,000 deliveries. William Lillywhite, who was active from 1825 to 1853 has the lowest average, claiming his 1,576 wickets at an average of just 1.54. The leading players from the twentieth century are Stephen Draai and Vincent Barnes with averages of just under twelve, both of whom claimed the majority of their wickets in the South African Howa Bowl tournament during the apartheid era.\n\n"}
{"id": "7765831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7765831", "title": "British Guiana at the 1960 Summer Olympics", "text": "British Guiana at the 1960 Summer Olympics\n\nBritish Guiana (now Guyana) competed at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy.\n\nMen's 200 metres\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 5,000 metres\n\nWomen's High Jump\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight\n\n"}
{"id": "229990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229990", "title": "Catenaccio", "text": "Catenaccio\n\nCatenaccio () or The Chain is a tactical system in football with a strong emphasis on defence. In Italian, \"catenaccio\" means \"door-bolt\", which implies a highly organised and effective backline defence focused on nullifying opponents' attacks and preventing goal-scoring opportunities.\n\nItalian \"Catenaccio\" was influenced by the verrou (also \"doorbolt/chain\" in French) system invented by Austrian coach Karl Rappan. As coach of Switzerland in the 1930s and 1940s, Rappan played a defensive sweeper called the \"verrouilleur\", positioned just ahead of the goalkeeper. Rappan's \"verrou\" system, proposed in 1932, when he was coach of Servette, was implemented with four fixed defenders, playing a strict man-to-man marking system, plus a playmaker in the middle of the field who played the ball together with two midfield wings.\n\nIn the 1950s, Nereo Rocco's Padova pioneered catenaccio in Italy where it would be used again by the Internazionale team of the early 1960s.\n\nRocco's tactic, often referred to as the real \"Catenaccio\", was shown first in 1947 with Triestina: the most common mode of operation was a 1–3–3–3 formation with a strictly defensive team approach. With catenaccio, Triestina finished the Serie A tournament in a surprising second place. Some variations include 1–4–4–1 and 1–4–3–2 formations.\n\nThe key innovation of \"Catenaccio\" was the introduction of the role of a libero (\"free\") defender, also called \"sweeper\", who was positioned behind a line of three defenders. The sweeper's role was to recover loose balls, nullify the opponent's striker and double-mark when necessary. Another important innovation was the counter-attack, mainly based on long passes from the defence.\n\nIn Helenio Herrera's version in the 1960s, four man-marking defenders were tightly assigned to the opposing attackers while an extra player, the sweeper, would pick up any loose ball that escaped the coverage of the defenders. The emphasis of this system in Italian football spawned the rise of many top Italian defenders who became known for their hard-tackling and ruthless defending. However, despite the defensive connotations, Herrera claimed shortly before his death that the system was more attacking than people remembered, saying 'the problem is that most of the people who copied me copied me wrongly. They forgot to include the attacking principles that my Catenaccio included. I had Picchi as a sweeper, yes, but I also had Facchetti, the first full back to score as many goals as a forward.' Indeed, although his \"Grande Inter\" side were known primarily for their defensive strength, they were equally renowned for their ability to score goals with few touches from fast, sudden counter-attacks, due to Herrera's innovative use of attacking, overlapping full-backs.\n\nTotal Football, invented by Ștefan Kovács in the 1970s, exposed weaknesses in Herrera's version of \"Catenaccio\". In Total Football, no player is fixed in his nominal role; anyone can assume in the field the duties of an attacker, a midfielder or a defender, depending on the play. Man-marking alone was insufficient to cope with this fluid system. Coaches began to create a new tactical system that mixed man-marking with zonal defense. In 1972, Michels' Ajax defeated Inter 2–0 in the European Cup final and Dutch newspapers announced the \"destruction of Catenaccio\" at the hands of Total Football. In 1973, Ajax defeated Cesare Maldini's Milan 6–0 for the European Super Cup in a match in which the defensive Milan system was unable to stop Ajax.\n\nPure \"Catenaccio\" is rarely used in modern football tactics. Two major characteristics of this style – the man-to-man marking and the \"libero\" (\"free\") position – are very rarely employed. Highly defensive structures with little attacking intent are often arbitrarily labelled as \"Catenaccio\", but this deviates from the original design of the system.\n\n\"Catenaccio\" is used infrequently by Italian Serie A teams, who instead currently prefer to apply balanced tactics and formations, mostly using the 5–3–2 or 3–5–2 system. The Italian national football team with manager Cesare Prandelli also used the 3–5–2 in their first clashes of UEFA Euro 2012 Group C and then switched to their 'standard' 4–4–2 diamond formation for the UEFA Euro 2012 final. Italy's previous coaches, Cesare Maldini and Giovanni Trapattoni, used elements of \"catenaccio\" at international level, and both failed to reach the top. Italy, under Maldini, lost on penalties at the 1998 FIFA World Cup quarter-finals, while Trapattoni lost early in the second round at 2002 FIFA World Cup and lost at the UEFA Euro 2004 during the first round.\n\nHowever, \"Catenaccio\" has also had its share of success stories. Trapattoni himself successfully employed it in securing a Portuguese Liga title with Benfica in 2005. German coach Otto Rehhagel also used a similarly defensive approach for his Greece side in UEFA Euro 2004, going on to surprisingly win the tournament despite Greece being considered as underdogs prior to the tournament. Dino Zoff also put \"Catenaccio\" to good use for Italy, securing a place in the UEFA Euro 2000 final, which Italy only lost on the golden goal rule to France. Likewise, Azeglio Vicini led Italy to the 1990 FIFA World Cup semifinal thanks to small wins in five hard-fought defensive games in which Italy produced little but risked even less, totaling only 7 goals for and none against. Italy would then lose a tight semifinal to Argentina, due in no small part to a similar strategy from Carlos Bilardo, who then went on to lose the final to a much more offensive-minded Germany led by Franz Beckenbauer.\n\nSimilarly, when Italy was reduced to 10 men in the 50th minute of the 2006 FIFA World Cup 2nd round match against Australia, coach Marcello Lippi changed the Italians' formation to a defensive orientation which caused the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" to note that \"the timidity of Italy's approach had made it seem that Helenio Herrera, the high priest of \"Catenaccio\", had taken possession of the soul of Marcello Lippi.\" It should be noted, however, that the ten-man team was playing with a 4–3–2 scheme, just a midfielder away from the regular 4–4–2.\n\nAlthough pure \"catenaccio\" is no longer as commonplace in Italian football, the stereotypical association of ruthless defensive tactics with the Serie A and the Italian national team continues to be perpetuated by foreign media, particularly with the predominantly Italian defences of A.C. Milan of the 1990s and Juventus F.C. from the 2010s onwards being in the spotlight. Rob Bagchi wrote in British newspaper \"The Guardian\": \"Italy has also produced defenders with a surplus of ability, composure and intelligence. For every Gentile there was an Alessandro Nesta.\" Critics and foreign footballers who have played in the Serie A have described Italian defenders as being \"masters of the dark arts\" motivated by a Machiavellian philosophy of winning a game at all costs by cunning and calculating methods. Historian John Foot summed up the mentality: \"...the tactics are a combination of subtlety and brutality. [...] The 'tactical foul' is a way of life for Italian defenders\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48566187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48566187", "title": "Dr PVG Raju ACA Sports Complex", "text": "Dr PVG Raju ACA Sports Complex\n\nDr PVG Raju ACA Sports Complex is a cricket stadium located in Vizianagram of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It was inaugurated on 15 June 2013. The stadium is home of \"North Zone Cricket Academy\" of Andhra Cricket Association which was inaugurated at a cost of on a near MVGR College of Engineering. The stadium has facilities such as pavilion, lodging and boarding facilities and health centre.\n\nIt has hosted five first-class matches in 2014 when Andhra cricket team played against Kerala cricket team. The stadium hosted five Twenty20 matches in 2014 when Andhra cricket team played against Karnataka cricket team. The stadium hosted five Women's Twenty20 International matches in 2014 when India women cricket team played against Sri Lanka cricket team and again when India women cricket team played against Sri Lanka cricket team in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "4181711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4181711", "title": "Eindhoven Team Time Trial", "text": "Eindhoven Team Time Trial\n\nThe UCI ProTour Eindhoven Team Time Trial was an annual road bicycle race held in Eindhoven, Netherlands. It was approximately . Each team had six riders. In 2006, team size expanded to eight. \n\nConceived as part of the UCI ProTour in 2005, it was open to the 20 ProTour teams and 5 wildcard teams selected by the organisers. It was held immediately after the Ster Elektro Toer, a four-day race on the UCI Europe Tour.\n\nIn early 2008 Eindhoven ended involvement in the event. The UCI said it would be replaced by another to be decided. In 2012, the men's team time trial was introduced at the UCI Road World Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "6968615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6968615", "title": "Estadio Augusto César Sandino", "text": "Estadio Augusto César Sandino\n\nEstadio Augusto César Sandino is a multi-use stadium in Santa Clara, Cuba. It is currently used mostly for baseball games and is the home stadium of Villa Clara Naranjas. The stadium holds 20,000 people.\n\nSandino Stadium \"Orange fury\" | La furia naranja, el estadio sandino de Santa Clara\n\nLa Furia Naranja (Orange Fury) is the nickname of Villa Clara province baseball team, the name also given since 2009 to everything painted in orange throughout the city.\n\nThe architects Emilio Castro and Gustavo R. Arnavat projected the Sandino in 1963 using the technique of articulated precast molding. In an effort to take the National Sport to every corner of the country, they were looking for a design solution that was less expensive and easier to adapt to the rest of Cuban cities without baseball facilities. It has an area of and capacity for 10,000 people. It opened on January 8, 1965.\n\nThe substructure is made out of concrete cast in-situ. Prefabricated structures such as vaults and PEPSA joints that hold the ceiling tiles were made using prefabricated reinforced concrete. The lobby's floor is tiled with Cuban marble, while the rest of the structure has polished concrete floor.\n\nThe gallery of the stadium has 148 columns from 2 to 12 meters high sustaining 100 beams. It has 10 lighting towers 33 meters high with 320 bulbs of 1500 Watts. The stadium's water supply is provided by gravity from an elevated tank of 10,000 gallon capacity. It also has among its facilities a dorm room with 208 beds, nursery, bathrooms, lockers, warehouses and offices.\n\nThis structure's design was first built in Santa Clara city and subsequently repeated in the cities of Camagüey, Matanzas and Pinar del Rio. Then slowly to the rest of the country's cities and towns. The Cienfuego's stadium executed on September 5, 1977 is a good example of how the Sandino architectural typology could be re-adapted and slightly modified to create a similar looking building with some variants.\n\nThe stadium's namesake is Nicaraguan revolutionary Augusto César Sandino.\n\n\nArtists that have performed in the stadium:\n\n"}
{"id": "4526140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526140", "title": "Estadio Fausto Flores Lagos", "text": "Estadio Fausto Flores Lagos\n\nEstadio Fausto Flores Lagos is a multi-use stadium in Choluteca, Choluteca, Honduras. It is currently used mostly for football matches and it was the home stadium for C.D. Broncos until 2001. The stadium holds 5,500 people.\n"}
{"id": "7434257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7434257", "title": "Estadio José Bernardo Pérez", "text": "Estadio José Bernardo Pérez\n\nEstadio José Bernardo Pérez is a multi-use stadium in Valencia, Venezuela. It opened on October 8, 1955, and holds 15,500 people.\n\nOriginally named Estadio Cuatricentenario, it primarily served as the home stadium for the Industriales de Valencia baseball club. Prior to the 1965–1966 season, the ballpark was renamed in honour of José Bernardo Pérez, a prominent local athlete.\n\nIt is currently used mostly for baseball games and serves as the home of the Navegantes del Magallanes. The stadium co-hosted the 2006 Caribbean Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "8457502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8457502", "title": "Estádio dos Imbondeiros", "text": "Estádio dos Imbondeiros\n\nEstádio Imbomdeiro is a multi-use stadium in Soyo, Angola. It is currently used mostly for football matches and serves as the home of Académica Petróleo Kwanda Soyo. The stadium holds 10,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "31687695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31687695", "title": "Federação de Futebol do Estado de Rondônia", "text": "Federação de Futebol do Estado de Rondônia\n\nThe Federação de Futebol do Estado de Rondônia (English: Football Association of Rondônia state) was founded on October 29, 1944, and it manages all the official football tournaments within the state of Rondônia, which are the Campeonato Rondoniense and the Campeonato Rondoniense lower levels, and represents the clubs at the Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF).\n"}
{"id": "463136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463136", "title": "Football Park", "text": "Football Park\n\nFootball Park, formerly known commercially as AAMI Stadium, is a former Australian rules football stadium located in West Lakes, a western suburb of Adelaide, the state capital of South Australia, Australia. It was built in 1973 by the South Australian National Football League (SANFL) and opened in 1974. Until the end of the 2013 AFL season, it served as the home ground of both the Adelaide Football Club and Port Adelaide Football Club. It also hosted all SANFL finals from 1974 to 2013. Prior to its ongoing demolition, it had a seating capacity of 51,240. The ground is still used by Adelaide as its primary training ground.\n\nGround was broken for Football Park in 1971, giving the SANFL its own venue after years of playing out of the Adelaide Oval, which was controlled by the South Australian Cricket Association (SACA). Due to ongoing conflicts with the SACA, the SANFL had wanted to leave Adelaide Oval and into their own home stadium for a number of years, finally settling on the undeveloped swampland at West Lakes in 1970 (the same year as the similarly designed, but larger VFL Park opened in Melbourne).\n\nThe stadium hosted its first football game on 4 May 1974, an SANFL match between Central District and North Adelaide. The first goal was kicked by North Adelaide's Barry Hearl, but Central District won the game defeating North Adelaide by 30 points.\n\nIntended to have a capacity of around 80,000, Football Park was originally standing room only in the outer (along with the usual crush barriers) with bench seating in the main grandstand and ended up with a capacity of approximately 62,000. Bench seating was gradually added to the stadium's bowl section, and the concourse roof was finished in 1982, by which time the grounds capacity had settled to around 55,000. The new roof gave the outer of the ground a limited number of under cover seats, as well as opening up more space for advertising boards. Television screens showing the games in progress at the ground are also in place under the concourse roof, as well as in the members area.\n\nAfter long-term negotiations with the State Government and the local council, as well as local residents, the SANFL started building the ground's four light towers in late 1983. These were finished by early 1984, with all night games in Adelaide moving from the suburban grounds (Norwood Oval and Thebarton Oval) to league headquarters for the next 16 years. Following the Adelaide Crows joining the AFL in 1991, and being joined by Port Adelaide in 1997, new corporate \"superboxes\" were built on top of the southern concourse, stretching from the scoreboard around to the members grandstand. The following year (1998) the stadium got its first video superscreen, although the old scoreboard located above the tunnel in the south-east corner remained in place as the main scoreboard.\n\nAfter years of speculation, Football Park's members grandstand was extended in 2001 with the opening of the new Northern Stand, opening up 7,000 new seats. The new grandstand was fitted with individual plastic seats, and the rest of the stadium was finally brought into line with this in 2004, seeing an end to the unpopular aluminum bench seating, and dropping capacity to 51,240.\n\nIn addition to football, Football Park has also hosted cricket matches, including the Kerry Packer-run World Series Cricket competition of the late 1970s when the upstart competition was shut out of major grounds such as the Adelaide Oval. The stadium has also hosted International rules football games between Australia and Ireland, as well as being used for rock concerts. Football Park also hosted a National Soccer League game during the early-mid 1990s.\n\nThe record football crowd at Football Park was 66,897 when Sturt defeated Port Adelaide in the 1976 SANFL Grand Final, though police believe the attendance figure was closer to 80,000. To avoid a crush, spectators were allowed on the field between the boundary line and the fence, and thousands were turned away by the police as the house full signs went up.\n\nAdelaide and Port Adelaide played their last home games at Football Park in 2013, with both clubs moving to the Adelaide Oval in 2014. The record Showdown attendance at Football Park was recorded at \"Showdown XIX\" on 10 September 2005 when 50,521 saw the Crows defeat the Power by 83 points in the 2005 First Semi Final. A pre-season match was played at the ground between the two sides in March 2015, in what was the last official event to be held at the ground.\n\nMajor artists have held concerts at Football Park, including ABBA, Neil Diamond, Alice Cooper, Dire Straits, Electric Light Orchestra, U2, The Rolling Stones, Elton John with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra on 21 November 1986 and Robbie Williams. Bon Jovi performed at Football Park in December 2013. One Direction performed at Football Park in February 2015.\n\nThe stadium had an absolute seated maximum capacity of 51,240 which equates to about 5% of the population of the Adelaide metropolitan area. Under the stadium's latest configuration the record football attendance is 51,140 set on 26 April 2003 for Showdown XIII between the Crows and Power in round 5 of the 2003 AFL season.\n\nAfter it was built, Football Park underwent several additions including:\n\n\nFurther upgrades, which did not eventuate, were proposed in June 2008.\n\nProposed upgrades to the stadium were abandoned following confirmation that both Adelaide and Port Adelaide would move matches to the newly redeveloped Adelaide Oval, which has a capacity of 53,583 and is located very close to the city. Adelaide continue to use the oval as their headquarters, and have their own clubrooms and state-of-the-art training facilities on the eastern side of the ground, a similar arrangement to what fellow AFL club have with the old Waverley Park in Melbourne.\n\nThe SANFL Grand Final was moved back to its original home at the Adelaide Oval from 2014. The SANFL announced a long-term development plan for the precinct in November 2014 with property developers Commercial & General for A$71 million. The Adelaide Crows will remain on the site, but the rest of the land will be redeveloped for 1,600 new houses, a library, retail area and a five-storey, 120-bed aged care facility. Following the announcement, most of the seating at the ground was removed (in 2016 and 2017) and given to local football clubs, before demolition work on the grandstands began in June 2018.\n\nThe playing surface covers approximately 2 hectares, with the average distance between the boundary line and fence being 6 metres. The ground dimensions from fence to fence are and the playing area from the boundary lines is and the goals run north to south. There is also a drop of approximately 1.5m from the centre of the ground to the fence to help with drainage leaving the ground with a distinctive hump.\n\n"}
{"id": "9018762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9018762", "title": "Gazi-Stadion auf der Waldau", "text": "Gazi-Stadion auf der Waldau\n\nThe Waldau-Stadion, known as the Gazi-Stadion auf der Waldau for sponsorship purposes, is a multi-use stadium in the Degerloch district in Stuttgart, Germany. The stadium is situated approximately 200m southwest of the Fernsehturm Stuttgart and holds 11,410 spectators (of these, 1,068 canopied seats and 4,949 canopied stands), which makes it the second biggest stadium in Stuttgart. It is home to the Stuttgarter Kickers, as of 2013 playing in the 3. Liga. The American Football team Stuttgart Scorpions uses the stadium in the German Football League and, since 2008, the VfB Stuttgart II, also playing in the 3. Liga, plays its home games here.\n\nThe Waldau-Stadion is the oldest stadium in Germany. \n\nThe football section of Stuttgarter Kickers plays their home games in the stadium since its inauguration in 1905, thereby being the German club that plays for the longest time in the same stadium.\n\nUntil 1975, the stadium featured a wooden terrace that was built after one of Arsenal's in scale 1:3. Due to various requirements imposed by the German Football Association, a new main stand was built in 1976 and is in use until today. After having the names Kickers-Platz and Kickers-Stadium since 1905, the stadium was officially renamed to Waldau-Stadion in 1987.\n\nThe Stuttgart Scorpions use the stadium since their promotion to the German Football League in 1995.\n\nIn 2001, the MTV HipHop Open took place in the stadium. This was the only occurrence of the music festival in the stadium as it moved to the Reitstadion in the next year and has been moved to Mannheim since 2009.\n\nIn June 2004 the name of the stadium was sold to the German main sponsor Garmo AG for 10 years. Garmo sells its products with the brand name GAZi and renamed the stadium accordingly to GAZi-Stadion auf der Waldau.\n\nOn 6 October 2007, the final of the German Bowl, the German championship in American Football, between the Stuttgart Scorpions and the Braunschweig Lions took place in the GAZi-Stadion. Braunschweig won the championship for the third time in a row, defeating Stuttgart 27–6 in front of 8,152 spectators.\n\nOn 17 July 2008, Stuttgart's council decided to remodel the stadium for 5.4 million Euro in order to fulfill the requirements imposed by the DFB for the new 3. Liga. It was planned to increase the capacity to 12,000 spectators (2,000 canopied seats and 10.000 stands in total). Beginning of the construction work was planned for January 2009 and should be finished by July 2009. In the end of 2008, however, the council decided to postpone the remodeling for an unknown time span. Following the relegation of Stuttgarter Kickers to the fourth-tier Regionalliga Süd, the remodeling would not have been necessary. VfB Stuttgart II, however, for now continues to host its home games in the 3. Liga in the stadium with a special approval by the DFB.\n"}
{"id": "10409970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10409970", "title": "Golf Club of Lebanon", "text": "Golf Club of Lebanon\n\nGolf Club of Lebanon is a country club and golf course founded in 1923 and is located in Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nThe club has an 18-hole golf course, six tennis courts, an aquatic center, a squash court and other recreational and social facilities.\n\nThe Golf Club of Lebanon (GCL) was established in 1923, according to the records of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, known as the “Home of Golf”. It is the oldest and largest golf club in Lebanon, and the only one still standing today from the four golf clubs that were present.\n"}
{"id": "6645454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6645454", "title": "JS Centre Salif Keita", "text": "JS Centre Salif Keita\n\nJeunesse Sportive Centre Salif Keita (JS CSK) is a Malian football club based in Bamako.\n\nFounded in 1995, former players include Mahamadou Diarra, Cheick Diabaté and Seydou Keita. The club was founded by Malian football legend Salif Keita as a training centre for young Malian football players.\n\nPlaying in the top division in Malian football its home stadium is Stade Centre Salif Keita. The team's colours are blue and yellow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10439055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10439055", "title": "Jarry Park Stadium", "text": "Jarry Park Stadium\n\nJarry Park Stadium ( ) is a former baseball stadium in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, which served as home to the Montreal Expos (today's Washington Nationals), Major League Baseball's first Canadian franchise, from 1969 to 1976. It served as a temporary home (for eight seasons) until the domed Olympic Stadium was finished and made available to the Expos. The ballpark was typically called simply (and incorrectly, since the stadium was built within the larger park) \"Jarry Park\" or \"Parc Jarry\" within baseball circles. The stadium was host to two American football National Football League preseason games in 1969; August 25 (Detroit Lions vs Boston Patriots) and September 11 (New York Giants vs Pittsburgh Steelers).\n\nThe stadium originally began as a baseball field in Montreal's north end (Villeray) in a public park known as Jarry Park. The only structure was the small unroofed grandstand behind the home plate and backstop area, with seating for approximately 3,000 people.\n\nPrevious to Jarry Park Stadium, Montreal's main baseball stadium was Delorimier Stadium, longtime home of the Montreal Royals. The diamond at Jarry Park had simply hosted youth baseball on a field in the park. However, in early 1960 the Montreal Royals were dropped by the Los Angeles Dodgers as an affiliate.\nLooking to improve facilities for a stadium in Montreal, the 3,000 seat Jarry Park Stadium was built, formally opening in August 1960. After the Dodgers ended their affiliation with the Royals, potential new owners of the team had an option on the franchise, with the provision that a suitable ballpark be put in place. Unable to negotiate an agreement to play at aging Delorimier Stadium, the group looked to spacious Jarry Park as the alternate site. The Jarry Park Stadium was built for this reason. However, even after the construction, the Royals franchise relocated to Syracuse, New York in 1960.\n\nWhen the original baseball field was later approved for the Expos, it was renovated to a park approaching major league standards. Unroofed extensions were built from the original stands to the left and right field corners, a large bleacher section was constructed across left field, and a scoreboard was built behind the right field fence. This work brought the stadium's capacity to 28,500, and the park was approved as the Expos temporary home.\n\nBeyond right field was a pre-existing swimming pool in the city park. Long before the \"splash hits\" at AT&T Park in San Francisco and PNC Park in Pittsburgh, there were occasional \"splash hits\" here. The first and most famous was a blast by Willie Stargell on July 23, 1969—leading locals to call the pool \"Willie's pool\" (French: \"la piscine de Willie\"). One of those was hit by Willie McCovey during a 6-4 win over the Expos on August 24, 1969. The idea of the swimming pool itself was later replicated in Chase Field in Phoenix.\n\nThe stadium was rather sparse, given that it was intended to be only a temporary home for a maximum of four years. The clubhouses were located along the left field line behind the stands. Due to its orientation, games in April and September frequently started with the setting sun shining right in the faces of first basemen. Eventually, it was decided to delay games until the sun finished setting. It was completely exposed to the elements, which was a particular problem at the beginning and end of the season, given Montreal's long winters. There was a huge gap between the left-field bleachers and the third-base grandstands, resulting in second basemen and shortstops getting buffeted by cold winds early and late in the season. The Expos frequently had to postpone early and late-season games because there was no protection for the fans. Even allowing for its temporary status, the field conditions were among the worst in the majors.\n\nAlthough the centre field distance was posted as 420 feet, it was actually 417 feet to straightaway centre, and 420 feet to the deep left and right centre field corners.\n\nIn their first expansion since 1962, Major League Baseball added four new franchises for the 1969 season. Along with San Diego, Seattle and Kansas City, Montreal was granted a Major League franchise. This marked the first time a team was located outside of the United States. Montreal, Quebec, Canada's largest city, had a strong tradition with minor league baseball, as the Montreal Royals were a long time Dodgers farm team. Jackie Robinson had played for the Royals in 1946, before his promotion to the Dodgers in 1947, breaking the color barrier. Icon Roberto Clemente was another Montreal Royal player, as were Dodgers legends Duke Snider, Don Drysdale, Roy Campanella and Tommy Lasorda. At the time the major league expansion announcement was made, Montreal had just hosted the 1967 World's Fair, called Expo '67, opened a new subway system and submitted (and eventually won) an international bid to host the 1976 Summer Olympic Games.\n\nOwner Charles Bronfman called the new franchise the Expos (after the World's Fair) and hired Gene Mauch as Manager.\n\nWhen the Expos were announced as an expansion franchise in 1967, one condition for placing a MLB franchise in Montreal was that a domed stadium—thought to be a must due to Montreal's harsh winter weather—be in place for the 1972 season. Finding a site for the Expos to play until that time proved to be a challenge. Delorimier Stadium was ruled out because its location made it impossible to expand beyond its 20,000-seat capacity (it was eventually demolished in 1971). Other options were the Autostade from Expo 67, a fair which had inspired the new club's nickname. However, the city balked at the cost of adding a dome and 12,000 seats, and the Canadian Football League's Montreal Alouettes demanded onerous rent.\n\nThe Expos were now in a bind—if they did not find another site quickly, the National League would strip Montreal of its franchise and award it to Buffalo, which already had a suitable stadium in place. In August 1968, Montreal Mayor Jean Drapeau persuaded National League President Warren Giles to visit Jarry Park (Parc Jarry). Giles liked the site's location—less than a mile from a highway and 200 yards from a commuter railroad.\nAfter settling in at Jarry Park Stadium, a strike delayed the original 1972 completion of a domed stadium. Due to further delays and cost overruns, the Expos wound up playing eight seasons in Jarry Park. After Montreal was selected in 1970 to host the 1976 Summer Olympic Games, the stadium projects of the baseball team and of the Summer Olympic Games merged. When it became apparent that Olympic Stadium would not be ready in time, the Expos were forced to seek permission from MLB to stay at Jarry Park Stadium for one more season. Further construction delays eventually forced the Expos to repeat the process until Olympic Stadium was finally ready for baseball for the 1977 season. For a time during the 1976–77 offseason, it looked like the Expos would have to open the 1977 season at Jarry Park due to delays in securing a lease at Olympic Stadium; indeed, the Expos began selling 1977 season tickets under the assumption they would have to play at Jarry. However, an agreement was finally reached in early 1977, allowing the Expos to open 1977 at the new Olympic Stadium.\n\nOn the field, the Expos finished 52-110 in their first year. They improved over the years, winning over 70 games in 1970, 1971 and 1972 and came close to the .500 mark in both 1973 and 1974. Their most popular player during the Jarry Park era was Rusty Staub, nicknamed \"le Grand Orange.\" Other players of note at Jarry Park were: Maury Wills, Willie Davis, Ron Fairly, Carl Morton, Ken Singleton and Ron Hunt. Future Hall of Famer Gary Carter debuted in 1974 at age 20. Warren Cromartie, Steve Rogers, Larry Parrish, Ellis Valentine and the great Andre Dawson were all young Expos who played their debut seasons at Jarry Park.\n\nOne Major League no-hitter was pitched at Jarry Park. On October 2, 1972, in the first game of a doubleheader against the New York Mets, Bill Stoneman pitched the first MLB no-hitter outside the United States as Montreal won 7-0.\n\n1969 Attendance Despite Jarry Park Stadium being the smallest venue in Major League Baseball, the Expos drew 1.2 million fans in 1969.\n\nApril 14, 1969: In the first Major League Baseball regular season game in Canada, the Montreal Expos defeated the St. Louis Cardinals, 8–7.\n\n1970 Jarry Park served as the home of both a MLB team and a Class AAA team in 1970. The Buffalo Bisons (Class AAA; International League) played 13 home games in Jarry Park.\n\nSeptember 29, 1971: Batting against Milt Pappas of the Chicago Cubs, Ron Hunt was hit by a pitch for the 50th time during the season. The Expos won, 6-5, on Hunt's game-winning single in the ninth inning.\n\nMay 9, 1972: Willie Mays plays in his final game as a member of the San Francisco Giants. As a pinch-hitter, he gets a single in the ninth inning of a 7-1 Giants' loss to the Expos.\n\nSeptember 9, 1973: A year and a half following his last appearance as a member of the San Francisco Giants, Willie Mays plays the final regular season game of his career as the Mets defeated the Expos, 3-0, despite 13 Montreal hits.\n\nSeptember 15, 1973: A crowd of 34,331 (the largest ever at Jarry Park Stadium) watches the Expos defeat the Philadelphia Phillies, 5-4. Bob Bailey singles home Ron Woods with the winning run in the 10th inning.\n\nSeptember 28, 1974: Gary Carter hits his first major league home run off Phillies' pitcher Steve Carlton. The Expos win, 3-1. \n\nSeptember 26, 1976: In the last baseball games played at \"Stade Parc Jarry\", the Phillies won both games of a doubleheader, 4-1 and 2-1 (the second game shortened to seven innings due to rain), over the Expos. The win in the first game gave the Phils' their first National League East Division title.\n\nThe stadium was used for various civic events in the years after the Expos moved out. The Inter-Montreal soccer team of Canadian Professional Soccer League (CSPL) played at Jarry. Jarry Park Stadium was gradually converted into a tennis stadium, beginning in 1980, with one corner of the court located at the old backstop. The stadium was renamed in honor of Pope John Paul II to mark his visit to Montreal and the park on September 11, 1984. The venue was renamed Du Maurier Stadium in 1987. It has since been upgraded and renamed again, most recently as Stade IGA.\n\nToday, Jarry Park contains baseball diamonds, soccer, cricket, bocce, basketball and beach volleyball grounds, pitches and zones, swimming pools and playgrounds, a dog run, and two gazebos. In winter a pond is swept to make a skating rink.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53594533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53594533", "title": "Kenneth Chipolina", "text": "Kenneth Chipolina\n\nKenneth George Chipolina (born 8 April 1994) is a Gibraltarian football player who plays for Lynx on loan from Lincoln Red Imps, and the Gibraltar national football team.\n\nHe is the younger brother of Joseph Chipolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "58405595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58405595", "title": "List of WBC Muaythai female diamond champions", "text": "List of WBC Muaythai female diamond champions\n\nThis is a list of WBC Muaythai female diamond champions, showing female diamond champions certificated by the World Boxing Council Muaythai (WBC Muaythai). The WBC, which is one of the four major governing bodies in professional boxing, started certifying their own Muay Thai world champions in 19 different weight classes in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "405664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405664", "title": "List of martial arts weapons", "text": "List of martial arts weapons\n\nWeapons used in the world's martial arts can be classified either by type of weapon or by the martial arts school using them. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18054861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18054861", "title": "Marin Gașpar", "text": "Marin Gașpar\n\nMarin Gaşpar (born August 15, 1917) is a Romanian boxer who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1936 he was eliminated in the first round of the bantamweight class after losing his fight to Wilhelm Stasch.\n"}
{"id": "13968965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13968965", "title": "Moonee Valley Gold Cup", "text": "Moonee Valley Gold Cup\n\nThe Moonee Valley Gold Cup is a registered Moonee Valley Racing Club Group 2 Thoroughbred horse race for horses aged four-years-old and upwards under Set Weights with penalties conditions, over a distance of 2,500 metres, held annually at Moonee Valley Racecourse, Melbourne, Australia in late October on WS Cox Plate Day. Prize money is A$500,000.\n\nThe event is the last major long distance event to be run before the Melbourne Cup. Kingston Rule was the only horse to win the Melbourne Cup after winning the Moonee Valley Cup in 1990. The Moonee Valley Cup has seen several double winners, such as Little Bob in 1891 & 1892, Gladwyn in 1914 and 1915, Gilltown in 1939 and 1940, Valcurl in 1945 and 1946 and Precedence in 2010 and 2013.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7745847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745847", "title": "Philippines at the 1972 Winter Olympics", "text": "Philippines at the 1972 Winter Olympics\n\nThe Philippines competed in the Winter Olympic Games for the first time at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, Japan with two athletes who competed in alpine skiing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26433193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26433193", "title": "Pinki Pramanik", "text": "Pinki Pramanik\n\nPinki Pramanik (born 10 April 1986 in Purulia) is an Indian track athlete who specialises in the 400 metres and 800 metres. Pramanik had success with the national 4×400 metres relay team, winning silver at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, gold at the 2006 Asian Games, and gold at the 2005 Asian Indoor Games. She won three gold medals at the 2006 South Asian Games, winning the 400 and 800 m events, as well as the relay.\n\nHer first success was winning two bronze medals at the Asian Indoor Athletics Championships when she was 17 years old. She was chosen to represent Asia at the IAAF World Cup. Domestically, she has won three times at the All-India Open National Championships. A series of injuries and a car crash meant that she rarely competed after 2007.\n\nPramanik made her mark at junior level when she set four junior state records in 2002. she made her world debut at the 2003 World Youth Championships in Athletics where she reached the 800 m semifinals. she won the 400 m race at the All-India Open National Championships soon after. she set a record at the National Junior Athletics meeting by running 54.92 seconds in the 400 m, although some confusion over whether she was born in 1986 or 1987 dampened proceedings.\n\nShe stepped up to the senior level the following year and won two bronzes in the 400 m and 800 m races at the 2004 Asian Indoor Athletics Championships. In late 2004, an incident in which a group of youths planted a gun on her and called police put her career at risk. However, eyewitnesses testified that the youths had harassed her and had placed the gun in her bag; she was released without charge. She took three months off from competition to recover from the stress of the incident.\n\nAnother medal came indoors when she took gold as part of the 4×400 metres relay team at the 2005 Asian Indoor Games with Iyleen Samantha, Santhi Soundarajan, and Mandeep Kaur.She returned to compete at the All-India Open National Championships, and came away with 400 and 800 m golds. The 2006 Commonwealth Games was her first appearance at the world senior level and she performed well, reaching the 800 m semi-finals and recording a personal best of 2:03.83, and winning a silver medal for India with Rajwinder Kaur, Chitra Soman, and Manjeet Kaur in the 4×400 m relay.\n\nAt Bangalore's Asian Grand Prix meeting in May that year she won the 800 m and improved her 400 m personal best, winning in 52.46 seconds. A few months later she marked herself out as one of the region's best runners at the 2006 South Asian Games: she won the 400 and 800 m gold medals and headed the relay team for a third gold. However, she was disappointed that she had not improved her time and said that she expected greater competition from the Sri Lankan athletes.\n\nShe was selected to represent her continent at the 2006 IAAF World Cup and finished in seventh place for Asia in the 800 m race. She attended her first Asian Games later that year, competing the 400 m and the relay. She reached the individual final, but just missed out on medal, finishing two hundredths of a second behind Japan's Asami Tanno. Greater success came in the relay: running with Sathi Geetha, Chitra Soman and Manjeet Kaur, the women's team took India's only athletics gold of Games.\n\nA severe foot injury caused Pramanik to miss much of the 2007 season. She had returned to fitness by August and began competing at regional meeting and recorded 11.07 seconds in the 100 metres in Kolkata. She set her sights on winning at the 2008 Indian Inter-State championships in order to qualify for the 2008 Summer Olympics. However, she was struck by injury again and missed the championships due to a hamstring problem.\n\nIn early 2010 Pramanik inaugurated a local competition, the Purulia Athletic Championship. On the way home, she collided with another vehicle and suffered deep cuts to her face and knees. Although her condition was not serious, she suffered from much back pain and remained in hospital for further treatment.\n\nIn a 2012 interview, Pramanik related that her coaches required her to have regular injections of \"Russian medicine,\" testosterone, to improve her performance.\n\nIn 2012 a rape allegation by Pramanik's female friend led to medical tests to determine her gender. Initial private tests claimed to show her to be male. Pramanik disagreed with these results and police ordered a separate government-led test as part of the trial. The results at the SSKM Government Hospital were inconclusive. The Court then directed a chromosome pattern test. In November 2012, the further medical tests were reported showing Pinki is a \"male pseudo-hermaphrodite\".\nHowever the medical report has revealed that Pramanik is incapable of having penetrative sex.\n\nIn response to allegation of rape and gender representation she said in an interview \"The girl who brought these allegations was not my partner and we were not in love. She used to live next door on rent with her lover and her five-year-old child. She had taken nude photographs of me and was threatening to make them public. She had been blackmailing me for some time. But to be accused of being male and raping her shocked me. I am not male. I have always been female. I look more male now because, as part of my training to compete in international athletics, I used to be regularly administered testosterone injections like other female participants. I was told that it was necessary to take these and I never questioned whether these were legal or not. I was focused on winning and did whatever I was asked to do by my trainers, who knew what was best for me. But after that, my voice became deeper and I grew more body hair.\"\nShe also said that she was manhandled and kept in a men's cell in jail. According to her, she did not consent to any testing, and was drugged and unconscious for the examination.\n\nClaims were made that Avatar Singh, a power broker and husband of Jyotirmoyee Sikdar, one of Bengal's most celebrated athletes and a former CPM MP had been behind an attempt to frame her, in relation to an ongoing dispute regarding land (awarded to her by the West Bengal government for her superlative performance at the South Asian and Asian games in 2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "906698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=906698", "title": "Player of the match", "text": "Player of the match\n\nIn team sports, a man of the match award is often given to the outstanding player in a particular match. This can be a player from either team, although the player is generally chosen from the winning team.\n\nSome sports have unique traditions regarding these awards, and they are especially sought-after in championship or all-star games. In Australia, the term \"best and fairest\" is normally used, both for individual games and season-long awards. In some competitions, particularly in North America, the terms \"most valuable player\" (MVP) or \"most outstanding player\" (MOP) are used. In ice hockey in North America, three players of the game, called the \"three stars\", are recognised.\n\nIn sports where playoffs are decided by series rather than individual games, such as professional basketball and baseball, MVP awards are commonly given for the series, and in ice hockey's NHL, for performance in the entire playoffs.\n\nIn football, the \"man of the match\" award typically goes to a player on the winning side. Players who score a hat-trick, or goalkeepers who keep a clean sheet under pressure often get the award. Hat-trick scorers usually receive the match ball whether or not they are officially named man of the match. \n\nThe man of the match is often chosen by a television commentator or a sponsor. However, not all competitions have an official man of the match award, so sometimes accolades are given by websites or newspapers instead. In the Premier League, for example, a player receives a small black and gold trophy for their man of the match performance.\n\nIn Australian rules football, the player of the game is often referred to as having been the \"best on ground\" (or \"BOG\"). Media outlets provide immediate, unofficial recognition that is largely honorary, often on a 5–4–3–2–1 or 3–2–1 voting basis. Players may receive a Tissot watch as an award for their \"best on ground\" performance. Officially, the AFL recognises the player of the game as being the player awarded the maximum three votes by umpires in the Brownlow Medal count at season's end. Exceptions are made during the season for certain reserved games such as the Western Derby, The ANZAC Day clash, QClash, and Showdown, where medallions are officially rewarded in presentations following the conclusion of the match. On the day of the AFL Grand Final, a player will be awarded the Norm Smith Medal as being the best on ground voted by an independent panel of Australian rules football experts.\n\nIn cricket, the man of the match award became a regular feature in Test matches in the mid 1980s. The man of the match title is usually awarded to the player whose contribution is seen as the most critical in winning the game. \n\nIn one match held on 3 April 1996, the whole team from New Zealand was awarded the Men of the Match award. It was the first instance when a whole team was awarded it. In a test match played between 15,16,17,18 January 1999 between South Africa vs West Indies, the whole South African team was awarded man of the match \n\nIn Test matches, Jacques Kallis holds the record for the highest number of awards won, with 23 in 166 matches played. In ODIs, Sachin Tendulkar holds the record for the highest number of man of the match titles, with 62 awards in 463 matches played. Tendulkar is followed by Sanath Jayasuriya, who, along with Ricky Ponting, also holds the record for the most Man of the Match titles as captain. In the shortest form of the game, T20 Internationals, this record is held by Shahid Afridi, who has won 11 awards in 99 matches.\n\nIn the Gaelic games of hurling and Gaelic football, the \"man of the match\" (, \"hero of the game\") is commonly awarded after important games. An unusual example was the 2008 All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship Final, where the award was given to Brian Cody, the Kilkenny manager, rather than to a player.\n\nIn the women's sports of camogie and ladies' Gaelic football, the term \"player of the match\" (, \"hero of the game\") is used instead.\n\nIn North American ice hockey, the three players who perform best in the game, often either those who accumulate the most points or outstanding goaltenders, are usually designated the Three stars of the game: the top-performing player is the \"first star\", and so on. This tradition originated in the 1930s as a promotion for a \"Three Star\" brand of gasoline.\n\nHowever, in international play (and outside North America), the \"three stars\" concept is rarely used. Instead, other leagues may issue awards to one player who performed best in the game.\n\nBoth codes of rugby, rugby league and rugby union, commonly have man of the match or player of the match awards. In televised or sponsored matches, a commentator or sponsor often decides who gets the award, and it is presented to the winner after the match.\n\nExamples of man of the match awards in professional men's rugby league are the Clive Churchill Medal in the National Rugby League Grand Final, the Karyn Murphy Medal in the NRL Women's Premiership Grand Final the Lance Todd Trophy in the Challenge Cup final and the Harry Sunderland Trophy in the Super League Grand Final.\n\nIn college basketball and college football, the two collegiate sports with the most television coverage in the United States, a top player from each team is usually honoured as \"players of the game.\" These athletes usually cannot collect material prizes due to NCAA regulations. Instead, television companies broadcasting the game or corporate sponsors will often make donations to the scholarship funds of each school in the names of the winning players.\n\nIn college basketball's Final Four events, a Most Outstanding Player award is given, for performance across both the semi-final and championship game. A Most Outstanding Player award is also given for each of the four regionals, based upon performances in the regional semifinals (Sweet Sixteen) and final (Elite Eight).\n\nThe National Football League names an MVP for two prominent games on its schedule:\n\nIndividual games typically have an informal player (or players) of the game chosen by the broadcast network covering the game; one prominent example of this phenomenon is the Turkey Leg Award, All-Iron Award and Galloping Gobbler trophies awarded for games held on Thanksgiving.\n\nThe Canadian Football League awards two MVP awards for its championship game, the Grey Cup. The Grey Cup Most Valuable Player award is open to all players; the Dick Suderman Trophy is limited to players with Canadian citizenship or who were raised in Canada since childhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "986593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986593", "title": "Point forward", "text": "Point forward\n\nPoint forward is a nontraditional position in basketball, with a small forward - or sometimes a power forward or combo forward - adding the responsibilities of point guard to his or her play.\n\nGenerally teams employ a point forward when their best playmaker is a forward rather than a guard. A point forward is typically responsible for bringing the ball up the court and being the primary facilitator on offense, but may merely direct play once a guard brings the ball up-court. \n\nAssuming the role of point forward may cut down on that player's scoring, as distributing the ball to others decreases shot attempts. Basketball Hall of Fame small forward Larry Bird, a prolific scorer with exceptional passing skills, quipped \"I'm a point forward now\" after his coaches sought him to score less and pass more.\n\nDon Nelson, a coach often associated with the point forward in his Nellie Ball system, used the role when his guards were not strong ball-handlers. Other coaches have used point forwards to free their guards to score more, a strategy of increasing importance as the three-point shot has become the sport's primary offensive weapon.\n\nESPN analyst Dave Telep maintained a point forward needed to be more than merely an adept passer but also had to facilitate the offense for teammates at least half of the time.\n\nThe origin of the term \"point forward\" is cloudy. Two former members of the NBA's Milwaukee Bucks claim to have coined it: Bucks small forward Marques Johnson maintains he created it during the 1984 playoffs when the team became short on point guards after Nate Archibald was sidelined with a hamstring injury. When coach Don Nelson instructed Johnson to run the offense he says he responded, \"OK, so instead of a point guard, I'm a point forward\". Then-Bucks assistant coach Del Harris claims he first mentioned the term to Nelson while discussing how to best use Paul Pressey. Harris says he came up with the term while coaching Robert Reid with the Houston Rockets. Harris credits his predecessor as Rockets coach Tom Nissalke's use of small forward Rick Barry as originating the point forward position.\n\nHistorically, one of the first to fill the role was John Johnson, who played it for the 1970's Seattle SuperSonics alongside two scoring-minded guards, Gus Williams and Dennis Johnson. During the 1980s Milwaukee Bucks Marques Johnson and Paul Pressey played point forward under coach Don Nelson. Larry Bird, a 6'9\" small forward who excelled at both scoring and rebounding in that position was also an exceptional passer and facilitator of others on offense. In the flow of games he often played a point forward role for the great Boston Celtics teams of the 1980s; the 6'9\" Earvin \"Magic\" Johnson, who orchestrated the Los Angeles Lakers' offense in the 1980s as the team's point guard, moved to a point forward role upon returning heavier after his HIV announcement. LeBron James is considered a point forward as he usually runs the offense and brings the ball up the court.\n\n"}
{"id": "208576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208576", "title": "Power play (sporting term)", "text": "Power play (sporting term)\n\n\"Power play\" is a sporting term used in many various games.\n\nIn several team sports, situations arise where following a rules infraction, one team is penalized by having the number of players on the field of play temporarily reduced. The term power play is commonly applied to the state of advantage the unpenalized team enjoys during this time. Specialized tactics and strategies can apply while a team is on the power play.\n\nIn ice hockey, a team is said to be on a power play when at least one opposing player is serving a penalty, and the team has a numerical advantage on the ice (whenever both teams have the same number of players on the ice, there is no power play). Up to two players per side may serve in the penalty box, giving a team up to a possible 5-on-3 power play.\n\nThere are three types of penalties that can result in a power play for the non-offending team: minor (two minutes), double-minor (four minutes), and major (five minutes). For such penalties, the offending player is ruled off the ice and no substitute for the penalized player is permitted. If a goaltender commits either a minor, a double-minor, or a major penalty, another player who was on the ice at the time of the penalty would serve the penalty instead. A power play resulting from a minor penalty ends if the team with more players on the ice scores. A double-minor penalty is treated as if the player has committed two minor penalties back to back: a goal scored by the team with advantage in the first two minutes only ends the first minor penalty (and the second will start after the game restarts); a goal by the team with advantage in the last two minutes of the penalty will end the power play regardless of whether a goal was scored during the first part of the double-minor penalty. If a player is given a major penalty, a power play occurs, but the power play does not terminate even if the team on the power play scores (except in overtime as this ends the game); a major penalty only ends when five minutes have elapsed or the game has ended. A match penalty results in the offending player being ejected from the game (and the player is subject to possible further suspensions), but is otherwise treated the same as a major penalty.\n\nIf a team is still on a power play at the end of a regulation period, or at the end of a playoff overtime period, the power play will continue into the following period. \"Misconduct\" penalties (10 minutes in duration), and \"game misconduct\" penalties (offending player is ejected for the balance of the game) allow for substitution of the offending player, so do not result in power plays. However in practice, misconduct and game misconduct penalties are often assessed in addition to a major or minor penalty.\n\nA goal scored by the short-handed team during a power play is called a short-handed goal; However, a short-handed goal does not affect the power play, the short-handed team must still serve the duration of the minor penalty. If a power play ends without a goal against the shorthanded team, it is said to have \"killed the penalty\". If a team scores on the power play, it is said to have \"converted\" the power play (that is, converted the opportunity into a goal).\n\nDuring a power play, the shorthanded team may launch the puck to the opposite end of the rink, and play will continue; icing is not called.\n\nIn leagues that conduct overtime with fewer than five skaters per side, the concept of the power play still exists, but its application is slightly modified. For example, the NHL uses a 3-on-3 format for overtime in the regular season, with three skaters plus the goaltender. If regulation play ends with a team on the power play, the advantaged team starts overtime with more than three skaters (almost always four, very rarely five). Similarly, if a player is penalized during overtime, the non-penalized team is allowed to play with an extra skater for the duration of the penalty, with two extra skaters if two players on the same team are serving penalties.\n\nIn box lacrosse, a power play is very similar to ice hockey, with two-minute minor penalties and five-minute majors. In field lacrosse, a similar type of penalty situation exists, though the duration of the penalty is only 30 seconds for technical fouls, one minute or more for personal fouls, and up to 3 minutes for certain equipment infractions. Depending on the infraction, the penalty may \"release\" early if a goal is scored by the other team, or may be \"non-releasable\", meaning the full duration must be served. The term \"power play\" isn't used in field lacrosse, but called \"extra man offense\" (EMO) or \"man up\" for the team fouled and \"man down\" for the offending team.\n\nIn quidditch, a power play occurs when a member of the opposing team is given a blue, yellow, or red card. A player serving time for a blue card or yellow card must remain in the penalty box for one minute or until the other team scores. If a player is assessed a red card, that player is ejected from the game and a substitute must remain in the penalty box for two minutes. This two minutes must be served in full, regardless of how many times the opposing team scores during the penalty. A player receiving a second yellow card in the same game is automatically assessed a red card. Blue cards do not stack; a player may be assessed any number of blue cards without being automatically assessed a more severe card.\n\nA team can never have a keeper in the penalty box. If the keeper is sent to the penalty box, the penalized keeper must immediately switch positions with a chaser teammate. If all chasers are already in the penalty box, the penalized keeper must switch with a beater or seeker teammate. If the keeper's penalty results in that team having all of its players in play serving time in the penalty box, that team forfeits the game.\n\n\nSeveral variant formats of netball introduce the concept of a power play, a designated quarter where all goals scored by a team are worth twice as normal:\n\nA powerplay is a feature introduced into One Day International (ODI) cricket in 1991 concerning fielding restrictions.\nIt is intended to add to the excitement. In a powerplay, restrictions are applied on the fielding team: only 2 or 3 players are allowed outside the 30-yard circle (which depends upon the type of powerplay). There are two powerplays in an ODI cricket innings starting from 30 October 2012.\n\nIn Power Snooker, this arises when a player pots the power ball. This triggers a period of time whereby all points scored are doubled.\n\nCommonly known as a \"power jam\", a power play occurs in roller derby when a team's designated scoring skater (jammer) is serving a penalty.\n\nIn the mixed doubles version of curling, a rule called a power play was introduced in the 2016-17 season. Each team can exercise the power play in one end per game, only when they have the hammer (throwing the last rock in an end). Instead of positioning the rock in the house on the center line, it is placed to a position straddling the edge of the eight-foot circle, with the back edge of the stone touching the tee line. The opponent's guard stone is place in line with the stone in the house and the hack. The power play cannot be used in an extra end.\n\n"}
{"id": "49280406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49280406", "title": "Pyongyang Golf Course", "text": "Pyongyang Golf Course\n\nPyongyang Golf Club is situated on the banks of Taicheng Lake, from central Pyongyang along the Youth Hero Highway. The 18‑hole 72‑par course covers with of green and is approximately long. Its clubhouse covers , includes a pro shop and a restaurant that is said to be the best in the country.\n\nIn 1994, Park Young-man told Australian journalist Eric Ellis that Kim Jong-il once scored a 34 on the course. Park continued that Kim achieved a Birdie or better on every hole and had five holes-in-one. Later, this claim was further embellished to say that he had scored 11 holes in one, and that this was on the first round played at the course in 1987, and there were 17 bodyguards who witnessed it. It is not clear whether the exaggerated version was spread by the North Korean state or foreign news reporting. The website of the DPRK Amateur Golf Open credits German player Claudio Consul with the course record, with a score of 71.\n"}
{"id": "28354991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28354991", "title": "Ransomes and Reavell Sports Club Ground", "text": "Ransomes and Reavell Sports Club Ground\n\nRansomes Sports Pavilion (formerly Ransomes and Reavell Sports Club Ground) is a cricket ground in Ipswich, Suffolk. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1972, Suffolk played Hertfordshire in the grounds first Minor Counties Championship match. From 1972 to present, the ground has hosted 48 Minor Counties Championship matches, including the rain-affected 2005 final between Suffolk and Cheshire in 2005, which was drawn. and 2 MCCA Knockout Trophy matches.\n\nThe ground has also hosted a single List-A match which saw Minor Counties East play Middlesex in the 1978 Benson and Hedges Cup.\n\nThe ground is the home of St Margaret's Cricket Club and Ransomes Sports Football Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "23320277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23320277", "title": "Rugby union in Burundi", "text": "Rugby union in Burundi\n\nRugby union in Burundi is a minor but growing sport. \n\nThe governing body is the Burundi Rugby Federation.\n\nRugby was first introduced into Burundi in the late 20th century. Burundi was a colony of Belgium until 1962, and some of the earliest games may have been played by people from there (see Rugby union in Belgium). Rugby was also being played in other countries in the region - such as Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya - that were British colonies, again, mainly by whites.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, rugby in Burundi became better organised. During that period, it was mainly played by Belgian and French ex-patriates in the country. \n\nThe first formally registered club was the Intambwe Rugby Club or IRC. The clubs first presidents were Stanislas Mandi and Christian Taupiac. \n\nIt produced some notable players including Marc Bourgeois, Charles Mugiraneza, \"Okume\", Bernard Bordes, Patrice Ndindakumana, Lilian Campan, Louis Riboli and Simeon Sahabo.\n\nThe IRC played a number of matches, including ones against French, Rwandan and Kenyan teams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6804738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6804738", "title": "S.D. Atlético Nacional", "text": "S.D. Atlético Nacional\n\nSociedad Deportiva Atlético Nacional is a Panamanian football team who currently play in the Panamanian top tier.\n\nIt is based in Panama City, and is the team of the National Police of Panamá.\n\nIn 1995, a team named Atlético Nacional was founded and played a couple of years in the ANAPROF league until they were disbanded in 2001 due to manipulation and alteration of documents.\n\nThe club were reformed in 2005 as \"Club Deportivo Policía Nacional\" and in 2005 the team managed promotion to the top level after beating Atalanta 1–0. They were relegated to the Second Division in 2006.\n\nThey were renamed \"Sociedad Deportiva Atlético Nacional\" in 2008. In December 2012, Atlético Nacional lost the Apertura final to Millenium UP but they clinched promotion to the LPF in June 2015 after they won the Panamanian Second Division championship decider against SUNTRACS. They had already beaten SUNTRACS in November 2014 in the Apertura final.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7030070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7030070", "title": "Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium", "text": "Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium\n\nSheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Arusha, Tanzania. It is currently used mostly for football matches and serves as the home venue for Arusha FC. The stadium was the host of the 2011 Kilimanjaro Bowl, the first American football game played on the continent of Africa. It holds 20,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "50787036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50787036", "title": "Shenyang Black Rhinos", "text": "Shenyang Black Rhinos\n\nThe Shenyang Black Rhinos are a professional arena football team based in Shenyang, Liaoning participating as members of the China Arena Football League (CAFL). They were originally called the Dalian Dragon Kings and were based in Dalian, China. Their home stadium was the Damai Center. In 2017, the Dragon Kings relocated to become the Shenyang Black Rhinos.\n\n"}
{"id": "3667188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3667188", "title": "Sindh cricket team", "text": "Sindh cricket team\n\nThe Sindh cricket team is a cricket team representing the province of Sindh in Pakistan.\n\nSindh's first first-class game was in December 1932, when they drew with Ceylon at the Gymkhana ground in Karachi. From 1934–35 until 1947–48 Sindh participated in the Ranji Trophy. On 27 December 1947 Sind hosted the first first-class game to be played in Pakistan, but were defeated by an innings and 68 runs by Punjab. The greatest Sindh player in the Ranji Trophy period was Naoomal Jeoomal who played in India's first test match against England at Lord's in 1932. Jeoomal became coach of the Pakistan cricket team in 1960.\n\nIn Pakistani domestic cricket, Sindh played in the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy each season from 1953–54 to 1956–57, but then made only sporadic appearances at first-class level until the 1970s, when two Sindh teams (Sind A and Sind B) competed in the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy for several years; the province also played List A cricket in the United Bank Trophy.\n\nSindh's last first-class match under that name was a seven-wicket loss in January 1979 against Habib Bank Limited. After that, a \"Sind Governor's XI\" played three games in the 1980s and one in 2000, while a \"Rest of Sindh\" team took part in the 2001–02 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy (finishing bottom of Pool A with no wins from eight games) and One Day National Tournament.\n\nSindh Cricket team has participated in 2016 Pakistan Cup and was captained Sarfraz Ahmed . The other teams were Baluchistan, Punjab, Islamabad and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa respectively by their positions. The key players of Sindh are as following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5407121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5407121", "title": "Stade Géitz", "text": "Stade Géitz\n\nStade Géitz is a football stadium in Wiltz, in north-western Luxembourg. It is currently the home stadium of FC Wiltz 71. The stadium has a capacity of 2,000.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "476874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=476874", "title": "Summit Series", "text": "Summit Series\n\nThe Summit Series, or Super Series (in Russian \"Суперсерия СССР — Канада\"; \"Superseriya SSSR — Canada\"), known at the time simply as the Canada–USSR Series, was an eight-game series of ice hockey between the Soviet Union and Canada, held in September 1972. It was the first competition between the Soviet national team and a Canadian team represented by professional players of the National Hockey League (NHL), known as \"Team Canada\". It was the first international ice hockey competition for Canada after Canada had withdrawn from international ice hockey competitions in a dispute with the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). The series was organized with the intention to create a true best-on-best competition in the sport of ice hockey. The Soviets had become the dominant team in international competitions, which disallowed the professional players of Canada. Canada had had a long history of dominance of the sport prior to the Soviets' rise.\n\nThe first four games of the series were held in Canada and the final four in Moscow. The Soviet Union surprised the Canadian team and most of the Canadian hockey media with an opening game victory, 7–3. Many Canadian sportswriters had predicted an overwhelming victory for Canada in the series. Canada won the next game 4–1; the third game was a tie and the Soviets won game four to take a two games to one lead after the Canadian segment. The series resumed two weeks later in Moscow. The Soviets won game five to take a three games to one series lead. The Canadians won the final three games in Moscow to win the series four games to three, with one tie. The final game was won in dramatic fashion, with the Canadians overcoming a two-goal Soviet lead after two periods. The Canadians scored three in the third, the final one scored with 34 seconds left, by Paul Henderson.\nThe series was played during the Cold War, and intense feelings of nationalism were aroused in both Canada and the Soviet Union, as well as on the ice. The games introduced several talented Soviet players to North America, such as Alexander Yakushev, Valeri Kharlamov and goaltender Vladislav Tretiak; the latter two are Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, with Yakushev being inducted in November 2018. Team Canada, the first NHL and professional all-star team formed for international play, was led by Phil Esposito, who led the series in scoring, as well as contributing in other roles. The Canadian line of Bobby Clarke, Ron Ellis and Henderson, which was not expected to start for the team, as none were yet stars, played a surprisingly large role in the Canadian win with Henderson scoring the game-winning goal in each of games six through eight. The series was filled with controversy, starting with the exclusion of top Canadian player Bobby Hull because he had signed a contract to play in the new World Hockey Association, and disputes over officiating, dirty play on the part of both teams, and the deliberate injury of Kharlamov by Clarke in game six. Hull had been the second leading goal-scorer in the NHL the previous season (and had led the league in goal-scoring seven times), and with a knee injury forcing superstar defenceman Bobby Orr, the second leading point scorer in the league the previous season (and scoring champion two years prior) to sit out, Canada was arguably playing without two of its best three players (the other being Esposito, the three-time and defending league scoring champion).\nFrom the beginning of the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championships in 1920, Canada would send a senior amateur club team, usually the previous year's Allan Cup champion, to compete as the Canadian entry. These teams were often university players, or unpaid players playing ice hockey while being employed in some other profession full-time. From the 1920s until the 1950s, Canadian amateur club teams won most of the World Championship and Olympic titles. As a career, Canadian players would play instead in the various professional hockey leagues, the best reaching the NHL. Their professional status made them ineligible to play in the World Championships or Olympics under the rules of the time. The last Canadian amateur club to win the world championship was the Trail Smoke Eaters in the 1961 championship.\n\nIn the earliest days of the Soviet Union, bandy or \"Russian hockey\" was played, not \"Canadian hockey\", and the Soviets did not compete in the Olympics or World Championships, which played the Canadian game. Post-World War II, a goal of the Central Committee of the Soviet Union was world supremacy in sport. The decision was made to transfer resources to the Canadian game. Starting in the 1940s, the Soviet Union started a Soviet hockey league playing the Canadian game. The elite sports societies of the Soviet Union, such as CSKA Moscow (Central Sports Club Army), Dynamo and Spartak, soon became the elite teams of the hockey league and supplied the players for the national team. Ostensibly amateurs, the players played hockey full-time, paid by the government. The players had other titular professions; for example Moscow Dynamo players became officers of the KGB; CSKA Moscow players became officers in the army. This preserved a player's amateur status for Olympic and World Championship eligibility and the players would have a career after their hockey playing days ended.\n\nEntering international play in 1954, the Soviet national team under the tutelage of Anatoly Tarasov started to dominate the international competitions, and won nine consecutive championships in the 1960s. Canada, in response, developed a national team of its own. But Canada's best players usually became professionals and the national team featured mostly university players. The Canadian team did not win any championships and was looked upon as a failure. By 1969, the Government of Canada had formed Hockey Canada, an organization to co-ordinate Canadian international play with its amateur organizations and the NHL. In July 1969, on a trial basis, the inclusion of nine professional players for any event for one year was agreed to by the IIHF. Canada entered a team with five professionals in the Izvestia tournament at Christmas in 1969, and nearly won the tournament. The IIHF then convened an emergency meeting in January 1970, and the rule allowing professionals was rescinded. In response, Canada withdrew from IIHF play. The 1970 IIHF World Championships, scheduled to be held in Canada for the first time, were transferred to Sweden after Canada refused to host the event.\n\nThe Canadian embassy in Moscow learned of the Soviets' interest in a series initially through reading an article in the Soviet \"Izvestia\" newspaper in the winter of 1971–1972. Diplomat Gary Smith, responsible for sport and cultural exchanges with the Soviet Union, read that the Soviets were looking for a new challenge in ice hockey. Smith met with \"Izvestia\" sports editor Boris Fedosov initially, then followed up with a meeting with Soviet hockey boss Andrei Starovoitov. The Soviets divulged that they were ready to play in a series between its national team and Canadian professionals. After the meetings, Canadian ambassador Robert Ford passed the matter to Ottawa to negotiate a series and Hockey Canada was given the task to nail down the terms for a series.\nThe negotiations for the series were finalized at the Hotel International Prague during the 1972 World Ice Hockey Championships. It was signed on April 18, 1972, by Joe Kryczka as the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) president, Andrey Starovoytov as the Soviet Union Ice Hockey Federation general secretary, Bunny Ahearne as the president of the IIHF, and former CAHA president Fred Page as the vice-president of the IIHF. The two sides agreed on the terms: four games in Canada, to be held in Montreal (Montreal Forum), Toronto (Maple Leaf Gardens), Winnipeg (Winnipeg Arena), and Vancouver (Pacific Coliseum) and four games in the Soviet Union, all of them to be held in Moscow at the Luzhniki Ice Palace. The Canadians agreed to hold the series in September and play the games under international rules. The Canadians agreed to IIHF amateur referees in the Canada part of the series, and European referees in the Moscow games. The refereeing would use the international two referee system, not the one referee, two linemen system in place in the NHL, and, at the time, being introduced into international play. The Canadian side agreed to the terms under the belief that the Canadians would have no difficulty winning under any set of conditions. Kryczka felt that the Soviets had demanded the concessions for their own benefit, believing that their team was already equal to any NHL team. The NHL later requested dates in October or November but the idea was abandoned.\n\nNHL players' union president and Hockey Canada director Alan Eagleson, while not involved in the initial negotiations, became a central figure in the organization of the series. Eagleson, who could call on a personal network of players, NHL owners, Hockey Canada executives and Canadian business, would be involved in most arrangements for the Canadian team. Eagleson would confide to \"Toronto Star\" reporter Alexander Ross, that he \"un-negotiated\" much of what had been negotiated between the governments. Eagleson placated the NHL owners by arranging that part of the series' proceeds would go to the NHL player's pension fund, reducing payments from the owners, and threatening to have his player clients play without NHL co-operation. Before the first game, Eagleson personally paid to settle a lawsuit won by a Montreal man, whose car had been destroyed in the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. The court had ordered the Soviet team's hockey equipment seized to guarantee payment, threatening the start of the series.\n\nFormer Boston Bruins' coach Harry Sinden, who had been out of hockey since leaving the Bruins in 1970, was suggested by the media as a good candidate for the job of Team Canada's coach. Ron Brown, a sportswriter from Kingston, Ontario called Sinden and in the interview, Sinden admitted that he was available and willing to take the position. After a phone call from Sinden to Alan Eagleson, it was arranged for Sinden to have an interview with Hockey Canada's steering committee for the series in June. After the one interview, Hockey Canada selected Sinden for the position. Sinden selected former player John Ferguson as his assistant coach, after initially trying to recruit Ferguson as a player.\n\nThe Soviets selected Vsevolod Bobrov as the coach for the series. Bobrov was a former player who had played against Team Canada in the 1950s and later managed the Soviet national soccer team and the Moscow Spartak ice hockey team. Bobrov had been given the job as the Soviets' national ice hockey team coach, replacing long-time coach Anatoly Tarasov after the 1972 Winter Olympics. This was his second international assignment; his first was the 1972 World Championship, where Czechoslovakia had defeated the Soviet Union, ending a run of nine consecutive championships by the Soviets.\n\nThe Canadian team would be known as \"Team Canada\" for the first time. The name and sweater design was done by advertising agency Vickers and Benson. Eagleson wanted to call the team the \"NHL All-Stars\", but the agency convinced Eagleson otherwise, as the teams were from the USSR and Canada. The name Team Canada was inspired by the contemporary auto-racing team \"Team McLaren\". The name is attributed to copy writer Terry Hill, whose first choice \"The Dream Team\" was rejected. The design of the sweater by designer John Lloyd utilized an enormous stylized maple leaf, like the Canadian flag, that covers the front. No numbers were on the sleeves, only on the back with the wording \"CANADA\" above the number. The sweater used only two colours: red and white, the maple leaf, numbers and letters in one colour and the rest of the sweater the other. The name, sweater design and a team song were all prepared in 24 hours, in time for a previously scheduled news conference. The series itself was simply known at the time as the Canada-USSR Series, although the name \"Friendship Series\" had been suggested by the Government of Canada Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAlong with coaching, Harry Sinden was given the task of selecting Team Canada, which would be the first true \"team\" composed of NHL all-stars. When Sinden announced the list of 35 Canadian players on July 12, one of the conditions of playing was revealed; that players would have to have a signed NHL contract by August 13. His list of players included Bobby Hull, who by that time had already signed with the rival World Hockey Association (WHA) league. Three other players Sinden named: Gerry Cheevers, Derek Sanderson and J. C. Tremblay had not yet signed with the WHA, but would do so and become ineligible. The condition had been negotiated between the NHL and Hockey Canada, and the NHL would not relent. The condition was widely criticized, including by the NHL's own Harold Ballard, the Toronto Maple Leafs owner and a harsh opponent of the WHA. Ballard felt that the series was the \"unofficial world series of hockey and we want to win\". Phil Reimer, a governor of Hockey Canada, resigned over the matter. Prime Minister Trudeau made a personal appeal, but Doug Fisher, chairman of Hockey Canada refused to re-open the agreement between the NHL and Hockey Canada.\n\nPrior to training camp, there were several changes in the roster. Jacques Laperriere withdrew and Guy Lapointe was selected as his replacement. Dennis Hull, brother of Bobby, considered turning down his invitation, but accepted because Bobby wished him to. Cheevers was replaced by his Boston teammate Eddie Johnston. Stan Mikita replaced Sanderson. Rick Martin replaced Bobby Hull. Bobby Orr, who was selected to the team although he was injured, remained with the team during the series and practiced with the team, but did not play in any games.\n\nTeam Canada assembled in Toronto and started training camp on August 13. Sinden named four co-captains: Phil Esposito, Frank Mahovlich, Stan Mikita and Jean Ratelle. The team trained for three weeks in Toronto, and arrived in Montreal on August 31 for the first game. The team held a practice on September 1 at the Forum. The unheralded line of Bobby Clarke, Ron Ellis and Paul Henderson impressed in camp, enough to earn a place in the starting lineup for game one.\n\nThe Soviets named 31 players for its roster on August 11. The roster included four goaltenders led by 20-year-old Vladislav Tretiak, Olympic and two-time world champion. The defence was led by Alexander Ragulin, who had played in three Olympics and nine world championships. The team was a veteran team with only a handful of players to make their national team debut. Several players were named provisionally, depending on their performance in the Sovietsky Sport tournament being held during August. Boris Kulagin, coach of Krylia Sovietov, was named the assistant coach. Among the forwards, the team did not name Anatoli Firsov, regarded as the \"Bobby Hull\" of the Soviets, who had reportedly spoken out against his new coach. Most of the players named were from the Soviet \"Red Army\" team HC CSKA Moscow, the team managed by former national coach Tarasov.\n\nAlong with their regular training, Bobrov had the Soviet players take boxing lessons in preparation for the series. The Soviets arrived in Montreal not long before the series, on August 30. Staying at Montreal's Queen Elizabeth Hotel, the team began two-a-day workouts at the St. Laurent Arena the next day. They were already acclimatized to the time zone as the team had been training on Montreal time for two weeks before travelling there. They brought 15 forwards, nine defencemen and three goaltenders. Veteran defenceman Vitali Davydov did not accompany the team to Canada. The reason given was injury, but the media questioned if Davydov had fallen out of favour with Bobrov. Firsov was reported as having a knee injury to explain his omission from the team.\n\nDuring the pre-series period, two observers of the opposing team were allowed to scout the teams. Toronto Maple Leafs' coach John McLellan and Bob Davidson, the Leafs' head scout went to the Soviet Union to observe the Soviets in the Sovietsky Sport tournament. McLellan and Davidson observed two games, while Kulagin, along with Arkadi Chernyshev, a former assistant to Tarasov, observed all of the Canadians' practices in Toronto.\n\nWhile the Soviet team was in Canada, Rick Noonan, a trainer for the University of British Columbia’s sports teams, was assigned by Hockey Canada to assist the Soviets. Noonan, who would be later be named general manager of Team Canada for the 1980 Winter Olympics, was the only Canadian to have regular access to the Soviet's locker room, and he was behind the Soviet's bench during the first four games of the Summit Series.\n\nAt the time, the National Hockey League was considered to be where the best hockey players played, and its best players consisted largely of Canadians. The public consensus of hockey pundits and fans in North America was that other countries, the Soviets in this case, were simply no match for Canada's best. The Soviets were not expected to even give the Canadians a challenge, and Canada was going into this series expected to win handily. According to Team Canada Coach Harry Sinden: \"Canada is first in the world in two things: hockey and wheat.\" Alan Eagleson said \"We gotta win in eight games. Anything less than an unblemished sweep of the Russians would bring shame down on the heads of the players and the national pride.\" The Soviets downplayed themselves, stating that they were in the series to learn.\n\nIn a poll of experts conducted by \"The Hockey News\", not one expected the Soviets to win a single game. Journalist Dick Beddoes of Toronto's \"The Globe and Mail\" offered to eat his words \"shredded at high noon in a bowl of borscht on the steps of the Russian Embassy\" if the Soviets won one game. Canadian journalists Milt Dunnell (\"Toronto Star\"), Jim Coleman (\"Southam\") and Claude Larochelle (\"Le Soleil\") predicted results of seven wins to one for the Soviets. American journalists Gerald Eskenazi (\"New York Times\") and Fran Rosa (\"Boston Globe\") predicted eight wins to none, while Mark Mulvoy (\"Sports Illustrated\") predicted seven wins to one for Canada.\n\nBefore the first game, former Canadiens' star goaltender Jacques Plante gave Soviet goaltender Tretiak advice on how to play the NHL forwards. Plante did this because he was \"thinking of the humiliation he was almost certain to suffer.\" Plante himself predicted Canada would win \"eight straight.\" In a game scouted by Team Canada, Tretiak had given up eight goals in a game played the day before his wedding.\n\nA few Canadians gave a dissenting prognosis of the series. John Robertson of the \"Montreal Star\" warned that Team Canada was too poorly prepared and out of shape to win the series. He blamed the NHL: \"This, the most important hockey event of our time, has been tacked onto the front of the NHL season as something only tolerated by the owners, and endorsed by the players as a means of enriching their pension plan.\" Former professional player Billy Harris who had coached Sweden's national team earlier in the year, predicted a Soviets' win, largely on the strength of Tretiak's goaltending.\n\nPrior to the series, Bobrov held a press luncheon in Moscow. He refused to consider that either team would sweep the series. To him, Team Canada had \"the fire power, know-how and goaltending\", but how would it adapt to international rules, two-referee system and amateur officials? He conceded that Phil Esposito would \"be difficult to move from the front of the net. I expect there will be some surprises for us when we meet your Canadian stars.\" He also predicted that Valeri Kharlamov \"will stand out, even against your best Canadians. By North American standards, he is small but he has an excellent shot. I think he will be effective.\" Sinden was aware of Kharlamov and he selected Ron Ellis to the Team Canada roster especially to cover Kharlamov.\n\nGame one was held in Montreal in a very warm Montreal Forum on September 2 before 18,818 fans. The gamesmanship between the teams started before the first faceoff. Canada was assigned the home team for all games in Canada, while the Soviets would be the home team in Moscow. The Soviets would not release their lineup until they had seen their opponents', the opposite order, considering they were the visitors. The official scorer had to return to the Soviets' dressing room and demand the lineup. To Sinden, he wanted to put the Ellis-Clarke-Henderson line on against Valeri Kharlamov's line. The Soviets did not start Kharlamov's line and Sinden named Phil Esposito's line for the opening face-off.\n\nThe move paid off as Phil Esposito scored for Canada after just 30 seconds of play, knocking a puck out of the air behind the Soviets' goaltender Vladislav Tretiak. But even after a few minutes, Sinden felt the Soviets were coming on and having no difficulty getting through Canada's defence. Henderson scored after six minutes to give Canada a two-goal lead on a face-off win by Clarke, the only advantage that Team Canada had, in Sinden's estimation. To Canadian spectators and the media, the second goal gave the appearance that the pre-series predictions of a rout had been proven correct. But the Soviets got over any awe of the NHLers and scored two goals to tie the score before the end of the first period. Yevgeni Zimin scored on a pass from behind the net, and Vladimir Petrov scored a short-handed goal on a Soviet two-on-one break, with Petrov potting the rebound. According to Sinden, the Canadian players had lost their poise, \"running all over the ice\" to establish their hitting game, while the Soviets used an unexpected tactic, that of the long pass, to break a man out of their defensive zone. The Canadian defence was also dropping to the ice to block shots, while the Soviets only skated around the defence to get a good shot. Although Tretiak had given up the two Canada goals on the first two shots, he recovered later in the period to make a couple of critical saves off Esposito at point-blank range. According to Esposito, \"at Christmas time, it would have been 4–0 for us.\"\n\nIn the second period, Kharlamov scored on a great individual effort to put the Soviets ahead. Kharlamov deked Don Awrey, skated around him, faked a back-hand shot on Dryden, but scored on the fore-hand. Kharlamov then scored a second goal to give the Soviets a two-goal lead at the end of the second period. During the period, the air temperature in the Forum increased. By the end of the second period, the temperature in the Forum had reached .\n\nSinden made changes for the third period. He benched Awrey and the Jean Ratelle line, going with three lines. In the third, Clarke scored to bring Canada within one. The Canadians attempted to get the equalizer, and Yvan Cournoyer put a puck off the post, but the Soviets broke out afterwards and Boris Mikhailov scored on the counter-attack to restore the two-goal lead with six minutes to play. Mikhailov skated across the Canadian net about 20 feet out, lured Dryden away from the net, then back-handed the puck into the net between his legs. The strategy of three lines, combined with the heat in the arena, had left the Canadians exhausted by then and the Soviets scored twice in the final minutes to finish with a 7–3 victory.\n\n\"I was stunned by their performance\" was Sinden's assessment. Former Montreal Canadiens' coach Claude Ruel commented that the Soviets' forwards were one of the most finely honed units he had ever seen. \"They are always moving, never standing around, they head-man the puck as well as anyone has ever done — and they always seem to be in the right place.\" According to Canada's goaltender Ken Dryden: \"We didn't play our game at all. After they tied it up, we started playing a panic type of game. Sometimes there were five men going for the puck at once.\" At the end of the game, Team Canada accidentally snubbed the Soviets by returning to the dressing room directly without shaking hands with the Soviets after the game.\n\nThe win by the Soviets was celebrated into the early hours back home, and many took the next day off work. Valeri Kharlamov's father Boris held an impromptu party at his Moscow apartment.\n\nThe second game was played at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto. Sinden sat out several players from the first game, including Don Awrey, Red Berenson, Ken Dryden, Rod Gilbert, Vic Hadfield, Jean Ratelle, Mickey Redmond and Rod Seiling. Hadfield took the benching hard, as he was from the Toronto area and felt he was being embarrassed in front of his home town. On defence, Serge Savard, Pat Stapleton and Bill White were added. On offence, Stan Mikita, Wayne Cashman and J. P. Parise were added. Tony Esposito took over goaltending duties. Sinden's changes were to get \"the diggers into the game and try to grind the Russians down. We had went for speed and quickness in our first lineup, yet the Russians were still faster and quicker.\"\n\nTeam Canada responded to their previous defeat with strong play in this game. The first period was scoreless, but the Canadians used the period to intimidate the Soviets with hard body checking, especially from Cashman, Bergman, Peter Mahovlich and Parise, to throw the Soviets off their game. In the second period, the first goal of the match was again scored by Esposito, this time from a feed from his regular Bruins' linemate Cashman, who had retrieved the puck deep in the Soviets' zone after colliding with the Soviets' defenceman Vladimir Lutchenko. In the third period, Yvan Cournoyer wheeled around Alexander Ragulin and beat Tretiak. Yakushev got the Soviets on the board after teammate Yevgeni Zimin missed on a break-away. Lyapkin pounced on the rebound and fed it out front for Yakushev to bury the puck behind Esposito. Peter Mahovlich then scored a critical goal while Canada was short-handed, deking out the Soviet defender one-on-one, then Tretiak, to give Canada a two-goal lead. His brother Frank then finished the scoring on a feed from Mikita, who had circled around a Soviets' defenceman. Team Canada won the game 4–1 and tied the series.\n\nThe Soviet coaches blamed the loss on the refereeing. Bobrov complained that the pair of American referees, Frank Larsen and Steve Dowling, let the Canadians get away with everything. After the game, the head of the USSR Hockey Federation, Andrei Starovoitov, charged the door of the officials' dressing room and kicked chairs over. The pair of referees, scheduled to referee game four in Vancouver, were replaced by the pair who had refereed game one and game three, Gord Lee and Len Gagnon. Team Canada agreed to the request by the Soviets to change referees, apparently not aware of Starovoitov's tantrum after game two.\n\nGame three was played in the Winnipeg Arena in Winnipeg on September 6. After the second game, the Soviets said that they had strayed into playing too much of the Canadian style, as individuals, and promised to return to their team style for the third game. Canada went with the same lineup as game two, with the exception of Ratelle replacing Bill Goldsworthy. Team Canada held leads of 3–1 and 4–2, but the Soviet side responded and the game ended in a 4–4 tie.\n\nCanada took the lead only 1:54 into the game on a goal by J. P. Parise, but Petrov replied short-handed at 3:16 to tie the game. Petrov stole the puck from Frank Mahovlich and broke away and deked Tony Esposito to score. After a strong fore-check by the Canadians on the Soviets in their zone, Ratelle scored to put Canada ahead 2–1 after the first. Wayne Cashman dug the puck out of a scrum in the corner to feed the puck to Phil Esposito who scored to put Canada ahead 3–1. On another Canadian power play, Kharlamov was circling behind the Canadian defence and received a pass to put himself on a breakaway. Kharlamov deked Tony Esposito to score the Soviets' second short-handed goal. Paul Henderson scored seconds later to restore the two-goal lead, on an individual effort. The Soviets' \"Youngster's Line\" of Yuri Lebedev, Vyacheslav Anisin and Alexander Bodunov then scored two goals to tie the game at 4–4 after two periods.\n\nTeam Canada assistant coach Ferguson felt that the Canadians had gotten over-confident. \"I was fooled again. I felt that after we had taken a 3–1 lead, the final score might be something like 7–1. But those two short-handed goals. When you score one short-handed goal it can turn it all around. But two? That's almost fatal.\" According to Tim Burke of the \"Montreal Gazette\", both goaltenders, Tony Esposito and Vladislav Tretiak, reached great heights, or the outcome could have been 10–10. Tretiak was making an unexpected start for the Soviets. The Soviets had planned to start Viktor Zinger, but he was reported to be ill before the game. The Soviets coach Bobrov complained about the refereeing and the play of Wayne Cashman, stating that \"if that game had been played in Europe, he would have spent the whole game in the penalty box.\"\n\nGame four was played in Vancouver at the Pacific Coliseum. Team Canada was surprised to find that the crowd booed Canada during the warm-up and cheered louder for the Soviets during the game's introduction. The game started with two consecutive penalties by Bill Goldsworthy and Boris Mikhailov scored power play goals on both penalties to give the Soviets a 2–0 lead. Goldsworthy, who had started in place of Wayne Cashman, wanted to replace Cashman's truculence, but only hurt his team and was criticized privately by Sinden. In the second, Gilbert Perreault scored on a Soviet own-goal to get Canada within one goal, but Blinov scored less than a minute later to restore the two-goal lead. Rod Gilbert scored a questionable goal that was disallowed and Canada's protests went unheeded. To Sinden, that was the turning point of the game, and the result could have been different had the goal been allowed, although Sinden admitted that it was \"a beating.\" Vikulov scored to put the Soviets ahead 4–1 after two periods. In the third, Goldsworthy made partial amends to get Canada to 4–2, but Shadrin scored to put the game out of reach. Dennis Hull scored in the final minute to make it closer, but it was too late.\n\nSinden had changed the lineup and the Canadian goals were all scored by players Sinden had inserted in place of players who had played in Winnipeg. Still, Sinden felt that changing the lineup had been a mistake. According to Sinden, Ken Dryden, who had replaced Tony Esposito, did not have a good game; he was shaky and Tretiak was great. According to Conacher, the Soviets used cross-ice passing in the attacking zone, a tactic that caused problems for Dryden. Serge Savard missed the game after fracturing his ankle in practice.\n\nTeam Canada was booed off the ice at game's end. Responding to the negative public and media reaction in light of the expectation for an overwhelming Team Canada sweep of the series, Phil Esposito made an emotional outburst in a post-game interview:\n\nBrad Park and Frank Mahovlich also criticized the booing. According to Park: \"We get nothing — not a dime for this. Brother, I'm sick\". Other players were more sanguine. Dryden didn't lash out at the fans. \"I'm disappointed, but I can understand it. The fans wanted us to do real good, and they're frustrated we didn't. I didn't think I deserved to be booed. Tretiak frustrated us, but I guess I didn't frustrate them enough.\"\n\nAfter the fourth game, the series went on a two-week hiatus. The Soviets returned to the Soviet Union and continued playing in an ice hockey tournament. The Canadians took a few days off, then travelled to Sweden for a pair of exhibition games before arriving in Moscow.\n\nTeam Canada arrived in Moscow for the final four games at the Luzhniki Ice Palace, accompanied by 3,000 Canadian fans. Not long after starting practices in Moscow, Team Canada players Vic Hadfield, Rick Martin and Jocelyn Guevremont left the team and went home for what they felt was a lack of playing time. Team Canada used its practice-time in the Dvoretz Sporta to learn the differences of the Soviet rinks. While there had been concern about the wider ice surface, what was most strange to the Canadian players was the fish-netting draped at the ends of the rink above the boards instead of glass. Considered \"in play\", the netting was strung tight, and a slap shot to the netting could catapult the puck back as fast as the original shot.\n\nGame five was held on September 22. Luzhniki was filled to its 14,000 capacity, including Communist Party Secretary Leonid Brezhnev, Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin and Soviet President Nikolai Podgorny and a large contingent of the military in dress uniform. The 3,000 Canadian fans were given seats, but a second group, of 150 Canadian sports figures, were unable to get seats. The players marched out to the rink for the game to loud cheers, and accompanied by the song \"Cowards Don't Play Hockey\". During the pre-game introductions, Jean Ratelle, captain for the night, was given the traditional gift of bread. The players were all given red and white carnations. Phil Esposito was given flowers, but he slipped and fell on a flower stem, landing on his back. Esposito recovered to laugh at his pratfall, and bowed to the delight of all of the spectators.\n\nIn the game, Parise scored the only goal of the first period, and Clarke and Henderson scored in the second to give Canada a 3–0 lead into the third period. Blinov scored for the Soviets at 3:34 and Henderson scored at 4:56 to restore Canada's lead. Anisin scored on a deflection at 9:05 to start a run of four straight goals by the Soviets, who won 5–4. According to Bobby Clarke, \"we're not a defensive club, yet we tried to play defensively.\"\n\nDespite the loss, all Canadian fans present sang \"O Canada\" as Team Canada left the ice. The cheering of the Canadian fans was unknown at Soviet hockey games. The Russian newspaper \"Pravda\" noted wryly that the roof of the arena had withstood the loudness of the cheering and had remained in place.\n\nTeam Canada was now faced with the daunting task of having to win all three remaining games to win the series. To add to the Canadian struggles, Gilbert Perreault left Team Canada for home to focus on getting into shape for the upcoming NHL season. Perreault had played in game five, practiced with the team the day after, and then asked to return home.\n\nGame six was a Canadian 3–2 victory. There was no scoring during the first period. Lyapkin scored the first goal at 1:12 of the second period, but the Canadians' confidence did not waver. The Canadians caught the Soviets in a lapse and scored three goals in a one-and-a-half-minute span to take a 3–1 lead. Hull flipped a rebound over Tretiak to tie the score after Gilbert had capitalized on a Soviet giveaway. Cournoyer scored on a set-up from behind the net by Berenson. Fifteen seconds later, Henderson scored what turned out to be the winning third goal on a thirty-foot slap shot. Yakushev scored late in the second on a power play to finish the scoring.\n\nAccording to \"Montreal Gazette\" sports editor Ted Blackman, Canadian players Ken Dryden and Brad Park turned in their first big games of the series. Dryden ended a personal losing streak to Soviet teams dating back to his amateur career and two previous games in the series. In his opinion, the Canadian penalty-killing unit of Serge Savard, Peter Mahovlich, Bill White and Pat Stapleton was \"brilliant\" as it held the Soviets to one power play goal despite the disadvantage in penalty minutes. Savard himself was recovering from a fractured ankle during the series. According to commentator Brian Conacher, Team Canada had adjusted its game to not play \"dump and chase\" but instead retain possession in the offensive zone. The strategy led directly to Henderson's winning goal on an interception of an errant Soviet pass. According to Conacher, \"for the first time, the Soviets had opened the door a crack and Team Canada had rushed through like a freight train.\"\n\nFollowing the game, the Canadians complained that Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader, the German referees of the match (the same ones who refereed a controversial Canada-Sweden game), were biased, since Canada was handed 31 minutes in penalties during the game, while the Soviets only received four minutes. Phil Esposito complained that one goal by the Soviets was directly the result of the referee dropping the puck while he was talking to a teammate. The Canadians gave the pair the nickname of \"Badder and Worse.\"\n\nDuring game six, Valeri Kharlamov was targeted by Team Canada for attention. According to Conacher, \"every time they get a chance, they're taking him for a rough ride along the boards.\" Kharlamov was the target of numerous bodychecks by Brad Park. Things started to heat up in the second period. Kharlamov had knocked down Bobby Clarke, who in retaliation, rubbed Kharlamov's face with his glove to raise Kharlamov's temper and the two exchanged punches. Bergman then stepped in and bumped into Kharlamov and harassed him all the way back to the bench. Peter Mahovlich later elbowed Kharlamov, who retaliated by dumping Mahovlich to the ice. Later, Clarke raced down the ice to catch a streaking Kharlamov and deliberately slashed Kharlamov's already sore ankle, injuring it and according to reports, fracturing it. Kharlamov skated over to the Canadian bench and yelled at the Canadians, before limping off the ice to the dressing room. The referees handed Clarke a minor penalty for slashing and an additional 10-minute misconduct penalty. Later, with Clarke still stuck in the box serving the misconduct, the referees also gave Dennis Hull a slashing penalty, during which Yakushev scored. On his injured ankle, Kharlamov returned to play and very nearly scored on Dryden during a power play later in the second period.\n\nThe incident was widely reported and condemned by the Soviet press. Kharlamov himself believed that \"Bobby Clarke was given the job of taking me out of the game.\" The slash was apparently done at the instigation of assistant coach John Ferguson. \"I remember that Kharlamov's ankle was hurting pretty bad. I called Clarke over to the bench, looked over at Kharlamov and said, 'I think he needs a tap on the ankle.' I didn't think twice about it. It was Us versus Them. And Kharlamov was killing us. I mean, somebody had to do it.\" Canadian journalist Dick Beddoes asked Clarke about it later at a team reunion, calling it a \"wicked two-hander\", to which Clarke replied \"Dick, if I hadn't learned how to lay on a two-hander once in a while, I'd never have left Flin Flon.\"\n\nIn a 2006 interview with the Russian \"Sport Express\" magazine, Clarke states that he was unaware of Kharlamov's sore ankle at the time and does not recall Ferguson telling him to target the ankle. Further, he recalled that Kharlamov had used stick work on him, and Clarke's slash was in retribution for Kharlamov's actions:\n\nOn the thirtieth anniversary of the series, Henderson called the incident \"the low point of the series\", but would later apologize to Clarke. In his 2007 book, Conacher wrote that \"from the broadcast booth I was shocked and disgusted when I saw Clarke viciously chop at Kharlamov's left ankle.\" He noted \"that emotionally these games had clearly gone beyond sport for Team Canada and had truly become unrestricted war on ice.\" Media opinion is divided on the effect it had on the outcome of the series. The controversy and admissions that have come forth throughout the years have led some to the belief that the incident could be considered a form of cheating. Kharlamov, who had been one of the Soviets' best forwards, missed game seven, when the Soviets could have clinched the series and while he did play in game eight, he was not at 100% and did not score. In Clarke's opinion, there were other factors for Team Canada's turnaround in Moscow: \"In Moscow we played much better than in Canada. We were almost equal to the Soviet team physically by then, we passed much better, we shot the puck much better, we became faster and played better on defence. Besides, when you have nothing to lose, it is easier to play. And after the fifth game we had nothing to lose.\"\n\nCanada won game seven by the score of 4–3. In the first period Phil Esposito scored two goals around a pair by Yakushev and Petrov, ending the first period tied 2–2. The second period was scoreless. In the third, Gilbert put Canada ahead, but Yakushev scored again to tie the score at three. At 17:54, Henderson fooled Soviet defender Tsygankov with a pass through Tsygankov's feet, then skated around Tsygankov to pick up the puck and break in on Tretiak. As Henderson shot and scored, Tsygankov tripped Henderson and Henderson did not see his shot go in. The goal light went on and off quickly and Team Canada rushed onto the ice to congratulate Henderson before there was any doubt raised about the goal. The Soviet coach Bobrov publicly blamed the loss on Tsygankov. After the game, Henderson commented about the goal as the \"one that gave him his most personal satisfaction ever.\"\n\nThe game also featured a controversial incident: At 16:26 of the third period, a scuffle broke out between Canada's Gary Bergman, and the USSR's Boris Mikhailov, in which Mikhailov kicked Bergman two times before the fight ended. Czech referee Rudolf Baťa and Swede referee Ove Dahlberg officiated the match, and it was announced that the German referee pair of Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader had been sent home and Baťa and Dahlberg would referee the final game, in exchange for a promise that Bergman would not publicly berate Bobrov.\n\nControversy ensued when the Soviets wanted to back out of the refereeing agreement. The Soviets wanted to include the German pair of referees, originally scheduled for the game. Eagleson threatened to pull Team Canada from playing the eighth game. In a compromise, Kompalla refereed along with Bata instead of Baader. The ill will spilled over into the presentation of a totem pole as a gift from Team Canada. The pre-game presentation was cancelled by the Soviets, but restored on the insistence of Team Canada. According to Coach Sinden, Eagleson stated that they \"were going to take this totem pole and bring it to centre ice and they'll have to take it or skate around it the whole game.\"\n\nHeading into the eighth and final game, each team had three wins and three losses and one tie, but the Soviets were ahead in goal differential by two goals. In Canada, much of the country enjoyed an unofficial 'half a day' holiday, with many students in Toronto being sent home the afternoon of the game (which began at 1pm Eastern Time), while many others watched the game at work or school. In Montreal's Central Station, 5,000 fans gathered around ten TV sets to watch the game, which was simulcast in English on CBC Television and CTV, and in French by Radio-Canada. Until the men's hockey gold-medal game of the 2010 Winter Olympics, it was the most-watched sporting event in the history of Canadian television.\n\nTeam Canada took a number of questionable early penalties. With two Canadians (White and Peter Mahovlich) off, Yakushev scored to give the Soviets the lead 1–0. The game was delayed after a mistaken call against J. P. Parise, (he was called for interference, but Parise admitted later he was guilty of cross-checking) and emotions boiled over. Parise was called for a misconduct for banging his stick on the ice, and when he saw the misconduct called, he dashed across the ice with his stick raised. Parise nearly swung his stick at Kompalla and got a match penalty. Sinden threw a chair on the ice. Some writers have commented that the incidents resulted in the rest of the game being refereed capably.\n\nAfter Parise's penalty was served, it was Canada's turn to go on the power play, and Esposito scored his sixth goal of the series to tie it at 1–1. The teams exchanged power plays before Lutchenko scored a power play goal on a slap shot to put the Soviets ahead 2–1. Brad Park then scored his only goal of the series at even strength to complete some pretty passing between Dennis Hull and the Rangers' teammates of Ratelle, Gilbert and Park to tie the score. The period ended with the teams tied 2–2.\n\nIn the second, the Soviets started with a quick goal by Shadrin after 21 seconds. The last ten minutes saw two goals from the Soviets: Yakushev scoring his seventh of the series followed by Vasiliev on the power play to put the Soviets ahead 5–3 after two periods. White had countered for Canada midway through the period. It was one of few moments for Canada to cheer as the Soviets played an excellent period. The other was a goal-saving play by Esposito who stopped a shot by Yury Blinov who had faked goaltender Dryden out of position and had an empty net to shoot at. Blinov was denied by Esposito who stopped the puck with his stick on the goal line. Blinov and the crowd had prematurely celebrated the apparent goal, and Blinov shook his head in disbelief.\n\nSinden told the players to try to get one back quickly, but play tight defensively and not allow the game to get out of hand. Don't gamble until after the half-way point if need be. Esposito scored to put the Canadians within one. The tension rose at the rink, and extra soldiers were dispatched for security. It was matched on the ice as Gilbert and Yevgeni Mishakov had a fight. Foster Hewitt noticed: \"You can feel the tension almost everywhere!\"\n\nAt the ten-minute mark, Sinden noticed that the Soviets had changed their style, playing defence to protect the lead, rather than pressing. However, the strategy back-fired on the Soviets. The change in tactics gave the Canadians more chances to score and Cournoyer scored to even it up.\n\nAfter the Cournoyer goal, the goal judge refused to put the goal light on despite the fact that it was signalled a goal on the ice. In response, Alan Eagleson (seated across the ice from the Team Canada bench) attempted to reach the timer's bench to protest, causing a ruckus in the crowd as he made his way to the timer's bench. As he was being subdued by the Soviet police, the Canadian players headed over and Peter Mahovlich jumped over the boards to confront police with his stick. Eagleson was freed and the coaches escorted him across the ice to the bench. In anger, he shoved his fist to the Soviet crowd, as a few other Canadian supporters also gave the finger to the Soviets. The Soviets continued to play defensively. Sinden speculates the Soviets were willing to accept the tie and win the series on goal differential.\n\n\nIn the final minute of play, with Phil Esposito, Yvan Cournoyer and Peter Mahovlich out on the ice, Paul Henderson stood up at the bench and called Mahovlich off the ice as he was skating by. \"I jumped on the ice and rushed straight for their net. I had this strange feeling that I could score the winning goal\", recalls Henderson. Bobby Clarke was supposed to replace Esposito, but Phil didn't come off (\"There was no way I was coming off the ice in that situation\" Esposito said). Cournoyer picked up a puck that had been passed around the boards by the Soviets in a clearing attempt. He missed Henderson with a pass, but two Soviets mishandled the puck in the corner and Esposito shot the puck on Tretiak.\n\nHenderson, who had fallen behind the net, got up and went to the front of the net where he was uncovered. Henderson recovered the rebound of Esposito's shot, shot the puck and was stopped, but recovered the rebound. With Tretiak down, he put the puck past Tretiak with only 34 seconds to play. Foster Hewitt's voice rose in excitement as he called the winning goal:\nThe scene was captured on film by cameraman Frank Lennon. The picture became iconic in Canada. Canada held on for the win in the game and thus won the series, four games to three. Pat Stapleton picked up the puck after the game.\n\nSomewhat overshadowed by Henderson's winning goal, was a four-point game by Phil Esposito, two goals and two assists, and a hand in all three goals of the third period. Esposito was the only player on either team to score four points in a game during the series. According to Ron Ellis, he had \"never seen another player have a period where there was so much pressure and was still able to accomplish what he did.\" Sinden considered it to be Esposito's \"finest hour.\" Esposito describes it as \"there was no stopping me. And I think some of the guys got a little angry with me. If we had lost, I would have been the goat. But we didn't lose. I just had enough faith in myself, that I was going to get it done, one way or another.\"\n\nTeam Canada arrived back in Canada on October 1. The team was mobbed by an estimated crowd of 10,000 at Montreal's Dorval Airport. Also greeting the team was Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and City of Montreal Mayor Jean Drapeau. Montrealers Ken Dryden, Serge Savard, Yvan Cournoyer, Jean Ratelle and coach John Ferguson stayed in Montreal, while the rest of the team travelled on to Toronto. In Toronto, an estimated crowd of 80,000 attended a ceremony at Nathan Phillips Square to salute the players. The players were welcomed by Ontario Premier Bill Davis and Toronto Mayor William Dennison.\n\nAfter the series, it was reported that NHL president Clarence Campbell and Chicago Black Hawks' owner Bill Wirtz had concluded an agreement with the Soviets for the Soviet national team to play an exhibition series in January 1973 against the Boston Bruins, New York Rangers and Chicago Black Hawks. Campbell characterized the reports as \"presumptuous\". The NHL and the Soviets had held talks during the Moscow games, during which the Soviets had requested further games, but Campbell stated \"we don't even know if we could schedule such a series\" and \"we're a long way from any arrangement.\" Although the 1973 exhibition series did not take place, exhibition series would take place a few years later.\n\nKompalla gave an interview with newspaper \"General-Anzeiger\" after the series. \"When I recall these matches, my flesh creeps. Ten more such games and I would age several years. I am very glad that I got back home uninjured.\" He went on to state that the Canadians played \"very crudely, purposely using foul methods that endanger the lives of their rivals.\" He complained that the Canadian team threw \"cucumbers and other leftovers\" at his colleague Franz Baader on the flight from Moscow to Prague and harassed visitors in hotels. Bobby Hull also criticized Team Canada, stating that the fighting and gestures of the Canadian players \"were a bad example to young players and diplomatically harmful.\"\n\nThe Soviet coaches Bobrov and Kulagin were interviewed after the series in \"Sovietsky Sport\". They accused Team Canada of \"trying several methods to intimidate their players, though this war of nerves did not bring them success.\" The coaches said they were astonished that the Canadians argued with the referees. They singled out Team Canada Assistant Coach John Ferguson for his \"pugnacity\". They did compliment Team Canada on their defensive skills but felt that the Soviets were technically superior, and, but for some deplorable mistakes by their players, the Soviets would have won the series.\n\nAlan Eagleson was not repentant for his actions during game eight. Eagleson was not the only one jostled by police; Eagleson's wife and the Canadian ambassador's wife were also jostled. Eagleson woke up with bruises from his treatment. Eagleson was not sorry, but he regretted the incident and planned to not get involved in further series. He did get a letter of support from Robert Ford, the ambassador, who basically agreed with Eagleson's actions. Mail and messages about the incident was mostly in favour of Eagleson. According to Ted Blackman, Canadian fans were basically understanding of Team Canada's actions as being provoked while the team was under duress.\n\nAs well as the disputes over the refereeing, the goal judges on several occasions did not turn on the red light indicating a goal after a Canadian score. After Henderson's goal in game seven, Sinden sent the entire team off the bench to ensure the goal was counted. A similar incident during game eight led to the melee that Eagleson was involved in.\n\nDuring Team Canada's stay in Moscow, the team's treatment was the source of numerous complaints by the players. When leaving Sweden, the team was informed that the players would stay at one hotel, their wives at another. The players threatened not to go, and the arrangements were changed to keep the players and wives together at the Intourist Hotel. The players' wives were fed sub-standard food and the players would smuggle some of their food to their wives. The team had contracted to have Canadian beer and steaks delivered to them in Moscow. The beer was lost at the airport, while the steaks were cut in half. At a practice after game six, the Soviets tried to cut short the Canadians' practice.\n\nDuring the two-week hiatus between games four and five, the Canadians visited Sweden and played two exhibition games versus the Swedish national team. The Team Canada management had arranged for the visit to Sweden to get used to the bigger ice surfaces in Europe, and stopping in Sweden would provide some rest for Team Canada before resuming the series in Moscow. The games took place on September 16 and 17 at the Johanneshovs Isstadion arena in Stockholm. Canada won game one 4–1; the second game was a 4–4 tie. The first exhibition game introduced Canada to the two West German referees, Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader. These two referees would figure prominently in games six and eight of the Canada-Russia series.\n\nSinden considered the first period of the first Swedish game the team's worst since the team was put together, but the team improved and started to take command. Henderson, Clarke, Cashman and Parise scored. Sinden criticized the German referees: \"... they were absolutely terrible. They couldn't even skate. They were miles behind the play all night and don't know the damn rules. Their incompetence helped the game become very bitter.\" The players were also introduced to the style of play of the Swedes, who were well used to using stick work to throw off their opponents. \"They were spearing, holding, interfering, and most of all, backstabbing.\" The Canadian players would retaliate and be penalized for their retribution. As an example of the referees' incompetence, Sinden pointed out that Esposito had been penalized for cross-checking, and given a misconduct for it. Sinden, who had played international ice hockey, knew that under international rules at the time, you could not give a misconduct for cross-checking.\n\nA dirty incident marred the second game. Cashman was cut in the mouth by Sweden's Ulf Sterner's stick. The cut to his tongue required nearly 50 stitches and forced him to miss the rest of the Summit Series, although he stayed with the team. Sterner was not penalized on the play. During the second intermission, Team Canada and Team Sweden scuffled in the runway to their dressing rooms before being separated by police. Canada took a 2–1 lead in the game, but the Swedes were not in awe of Canada like they had been at the beginning of game one. The Swedish tactics were effective; Canada took 31 minutes in penalties to Sweden's two. Sweden led the game 4–3 before Esposito scored on a 35-foot shot in the final minute. The Swedish defenceman had actually backed into their goaltender, allowing Esposito an easy shot for goal. Sinden also admitted that the tying goal was off-side but the referees had missed the call. Sinden was \"thrilled with the tie. I wouldn't be able to stomach their gloating if they beat us.\"\n\nTeam Canada was heavily criticized by the Swedish media for its \"criminal\"-style play during the two games. Pictures in the newspapers highlighted the blood from a two-stitch cut the Swedish captain Lars-Erik Sjöberg had received on a cross-check from Vic Hadfield. Reports of the games led to criticism from back home in Canada, which incensed Sinden. The team cooled off the next day with a session in Södertälje playing for the employees of a Volkswagen plant. The team played mock games against local teams of youngsters 12 and 13 years in age. The practice improved the mood of the players. The team drank beer on the bus, and started \"singing songs like a bunch of kids.\" Several of the players then went out drinking, impressing Sinden the next day with their best practice session to date. The time in Sweden helped bring Team Canada together as a team and focused them for the final four games.\n\nAfter the series, Team Canada played an exhibition game against the Czechoslovak national team; at the time, the world champions. The game took place on September 30 at the Sportovní hala in Prague and ended in a 3–3 tie. Canada took the lead in the first period on goals by Serge Savard and Peter Mahovlich. The Czechoslovakian team tied it with two goals in the second by Bohuslav Stastny. Jiri Kochta scored at 2:28 of the third and the lead nearly held up until the end. Canada pulled its goalie and Savard scored his second goal with four seconds left.\n\nFor the game, Stan Mikita was named captain of the Canadian team. Mikita had left Czechoslovakia at age eight to live in Canada with an aunt and uncle, leaving behind his mother. During player introductions, Mikita received the largest ovation of any player. He took the opening faceoff and very nearly scored during the game.\n\nThe games' broadcasts were produced by Hockey Canada, using experienced hockey commentators from Canadian television networks. In English, CBC Television (CBC) and CTV Television Network (CTV) split the coverage, with CTV carrying games one, three, five, seven and eight, while CBC aired games two, four, six and eight. Foster Hewitt called the plays and former player Brian Conacher was the commentator for all of the games. At the request of the broadcasters, Hewitt came out of semi-retirement to be part of the broadcast. In French, all games were broadcast on SRC and the broadcast team was Rene Lecavalier and former player Gilles Tremblay. For the eighth game, it was estimated that 16 million Canadians watched the match. (A year earlier, the national census had counted 21,963,000 Canadians.)\n\nA partnership between Bobby Orr Enterprises and Harold Ballard bought the broadcast rights from Hockey Canada for $750,000. The bid, negotiated by Alan Eagleson, who, at the time, was both Orr's agent and a Hockey Canada director, outbid McLaren Advertising, producers of \"Hockey Night in Canada\", which had offered $500,000. Ballard-Orr realized a profit on the series of $1.2 million.\n\nThe series was picked up by some U.S. television stations, such as WSNS (Channel 44) in Chicago. The telecasts of games one through four were produced by WSBK (Channel 38) in Boston and called by Bruins' announcers Fred Cusick and John Peirson. After efforts by WSBK to get rights to the four games in Moscow broke down, a last-minute deal by Boston public television station WGBH-TV allowed it to broadcast the CBC/CTV feed of games five through eight and to make the telecast available to PBS stations in several American cities, mostly those who had NHL, minor-league, or major college hockey teams. WGBH fed the Canadian telecasts; games six, seven, and eight were seen on WGBH and PBS on a tape-delay in prime-time.\n\nThe Soviet play-by-play was done by Nikolai Ozerov. In the style of that time, the Soviets did not televise anything during the pre-game, intermissions or post-game. During the intermission, the screen went black, with classical music playing quietly. After the games, the broadcast simply ended and Soviet television networks returned to regular programming.\n\nWhile Canada formally won the series, there was no winning title, and both teams could claim victory. The Soviets earned the respect of fans and players alike; the Canadians went from scoffing at their antiquated equipment and strange training methods and practices to admiration for their talent and conditioning. Frank Mahovlich said, \"give the Russians a football and they'd win the Super Bowl in two years.\"\n\nMany Soviet citizens believed that the outcome may have been different if Anatoli Firsov and Vitaly Davydov had not sat out the series to protest a coaching change. In response, some offer that Canada was without Bobby Orr due to his knee injury as well as Bobby Hull (due to his departure from the NHL to the newly formed WHA league). These were arguably the best Canadian players at the time (along with Phil Esposito), so neither team had all of its greatest talent on the ice. The Soviet team had an obvious advantage of playing together year-round. Meanwhile, the Canadian team was picked and prepared in only a few weeks and most players were not yet in top shape when the series began. At the time, NHL players did not regularly train during the summer months, using the period for a holiday or other activities.\n\nIn the end, the Summit Series conclusively proved that the gap between the best Canadian NHL players and the top national teams of Europe (USSR, Czechoslovakia, Sweden) was much narrower than most observers on both sides of the Atlantic had anticipated. The Swedish national team coach Billy Harris (a former NHL pro with the Toronto Maple Leafs) later recalled that \"the (Swedish) media would ask me, 'do you see even one Swedish player who could possibly have a chance in the National Hockey League?' I answered, 'No, I see 14 of them!'\" The success of the 1972 Summit Series would lead to the development of the Canada Cup ice hockey world championship tournament open to both pros and amateurs, starting in 1976. It also led to regular series of games between Soviet and NHL clubs, known as the Super Series. By the 1980s, an increasing number of players were former members of the Swedish or Czechoslovak national teams. The top Soviet players were finally allowed to sign contracts with NHL clubs in the late 1980s and early 1990s as the USSR crumbled.\n\nIn North America, the Series (particularly the first few games) exposed the need for better preparation and off-season training. Philadelphia Flyers coach Fred Shero became an avid student of the Soviet style and was one of the first to bring the Soviet training techniques to the NHL as the Flyers won two Stanley Cup championships in 1974 and 1975. Tom Mellor (who joined the small but rapidly growing group of American-born NHL players after the 1972 Olympics) lamented that the NHL training methods of the early 1970s were vastly inferior to those of the Soviets. \"When I went to play for Detroit after the Olympics, Alex Delvecchio was the coach. ... When he would coach, we would do a couple of one-on-ones, two-on-twos, three-on-twos, we'd scrimmage, and he would scrimmage with us. At the end of the scrimmage, we'd do a couple of figure eights and then go to the bar. That was the NHL and pro mentality.\" Mark Howe commented that the Soviet national team must have trained six hours on the day of a game in the 1972 Winter Olympics. On the other hand, Swedish sports journalists were extremely impressed by the toughness and \"never say die\" fighting spirit of the Canadians, who lost only one game out of seven on European ice despite often trailing in the third period. According to Soviet player Boris Mikhailov, who later became a coach, \"it was a meeting between two schools of hockey and we have since continued this great exchange and we have learned from each other, taking the best of both styles.\"\n\nAs time passed, the significance of the series grew in the public consciousness, and the term \"Summit Series\" became its unofficial accepted name. In Canada, the Summit Series is a source of national pride, and is seen by many as a landmark event in Canadian cultural history. In Canada, Paul Henderson's goal is considered to be one of the most famous in the history of the game. The series is also seen by many Canadians as an important win in the Cold War.\n\nMany of the players would face each other again in subsequent international contests. Henderson would play the Soviets in the 1974 Summit Series organized by the WHA. Eleven of the Soviet 1972 team players would play against the Montreal Canadiens in the December 31, 1975 game of the \"Super Series '76\". Five players of Team Canada 1972 would play for Montreal (Awrey, Cournoyer, Dryden, Lapointe and Savard). Many of the players would also play in the 1976 Canada Cup, including Bobby Orr, making his first appearance against the Soviets as a professional. He had the missed the chance in the Super Series '76, also due to injury.\n\nIn 1987, fifteen years after the series, a 60-minute commemorative video was directed and produced by Tom McKee and published by Labatt Brewing Company Limited, Toronto. The video includes interviews with Alan Eagleson and former players Bobby Clarke, Yvan Cournoyer, Paul Henderson, and Serge Savard in the studio. Every goal from the series is included as is a mention of the Soviets' \"shenanigans,\" as they try to interfere with one of the Canadians' practices in Moscow. Eagleson would later be barred from public appearances with Team Canada members after his fraud convictions related to his hockey business dealings.\n\nIn 1989, Marcel Dionne retired as a member of the New York Rangers. He was the last active player from the Canadian roster. That same year, Sergei Priakin became the first Soviet to be given permission to play in the NHL, for the Calgary Flames.\n\nIn 1997, the Royal Canadian Mint released a commemorative silver dollar coin to mark the 25th anniversary.\n\nOn November 2, 2005, the team was honoured, en masse, as members of the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame. In the induction ceremony, Phil Esposito spoke: \"A lot of people will go back and say 1972 changed the face of the game and actually I believe it did. I'm not so sure it changed for the better, by the way. But it did change the way we think and look at hockey in this country.\"\n\nIn 2006, the CBC aired a two-part mini-series called \"Canada Russia '72\", directed by T. W. Peacocke. The film is a dramatization of the series. The film was later made available on DVD.\n\nIn 2007, for the 35th anniversary of the series, Canadian and Russian national junior teams competed in the 2007 Super Series. Four games were played in Russia, followed by four in Canada. Canada won seven of eight games and game seven was a tie.\n\nIn 2010, the sweater Henderson wore while scoring the decisive final goal of the series was put up for auction by an anonymous American collector. The 42nd and winning bid of US$1,067,538 ($1,275,000 with auction fees, confirmed as the world record for hockey memorabilia by Guinness World Book of Records in March 2012.) was placed by Mitchell Goldhar, a Canadian shopping mall mogul. It was also announced that Goldhar would be taking it on a tour of Canada, the locations of which to be decided by voters on Facebook.\n\nIn 2012, the 40th anniversary, several events took place. The 2012 Canada–Russia Challenge, a series between Canadian and Russian players took place in August. In September, two books were published to mark the anniversary. That month, in Russia, members of Team Canada went on a tour of Russian cities to celebrate the anniversary. A reciprocal tour of Canada was planned but no funding was available from the Government of Canada to sponsor the tour. Nevertheless, the anniversary was marked with several events in Canada. Team Canada received a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in Toronto. The series was replayed that month on Canadian television, and the Canadian team was honoured with a dinner at the Hockey Hall of Fame. The players again refused to appear with Alan Eagleson.\n\nHenderson's goal in 1972 has been described as the \"goal that everyone remembers\" by the Canadian rockers The Tragically Hip in their song \"Fireworks\" from their album \"Phantom Power\". The song describes the national eruption of celebration over the goal.\n\nIn the 1994 film \"\", director Nikita Mikhalkov observes that to be a great nation, \"Russia needed great enemies\". The film then shows Phil Esposito in the penalty box from video of the series. Esposito is \"performing a menacing pantomime\" in the words of author Dave Bidini. The term \"Esposito\" also was added as a derogatory term to street slang in Russia.\n\nThe \"Corner Gas\" episode \"The Good Old Table Hockey Game\" featured an eight-game table hockey series based on the Summit Series. It referenced events such as the fans booing and Esposito's speech after game four, Esposito falling on the ice before game six, and Henderson's winning goal in game eight.\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\n\nSource: Dryden & Mulvoy, Podnieks\n\nSource: Dryden & Mulvoy, Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks,Dryden & Mulvoy\n\nStatistics do not include the games in Czechoslovakia and Sweden.\n\nSource: MacSkimming 1996, Dryden & Mulvoy\n\nSources: \"The Globe and Mail\", Society for International Hockey Research Plus-minus: Dryden & Mulvoy\n\nOf these players, all played against Sweden, except for Bobby Orr. Dionne, Glennie and Tallon played against Czechoslovakia.\n\nJersey numbers: \"The Globe and Mail\"\n\nThree junior-age players were invited to training camp to take part in practices. All three had been drafted in the 1972 NHL Entry Draft and were clients of Alan Eagleson. The three stayed with the team during the Canadian stage of the series.\n\n\n\nSources: \"The Globe and Mail\", Society for International Hockey Research Plus-minus: Dryden & Mulvoy\n\n\nJersey numbers: \"The Globe and Mail\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53777629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53777629", "title": "Tendex", "text": "Tendex\n\nThe Tendex system is a basketball mathematical statistical formula that was created by sports writer Dave Heeren, in order to determine the playing efficiency of basketball players. It is generally accepted as the original weighted advanced stat formula used in the sport of basketball.\n\nThe Tendex statistical system has 3 different formulas and is calculated as follows:\n\nStandard Tendex Rating: (Tendex raw statistical formula)\n\nModified Tendex Rating: (Tendex weighted average statistical formula)\n\nEuropean Tendex Rating (Performance Index Rating (PIR)): (EuroLeague / EuroCup)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29563712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29563712", "title": "Your Shape", "text": "Your Shape\n\nYour Shape is an exercise video game developed by Ubisoft, released for PCs and the Wii in 2009. Utilizing a motion tracking camera released with the game, \"Your Shape\" guides the player through various aerobic exercises that can be tailored to target certain parts of the body. A sequel was released in 2010 titled \"\" for the Xbox 360.\n\n\"Your Shape\" was developed as a companion to the Ubisoft Motion Tracking Camera. Ubisoft's design team in Barcelona began developing the camera in 2007 after they had seen a prototype of motion tracking technology developed by PrimeSense, a company who would later provide the motion sensing functionality for Microsoft's \"Project Natal\" (later released as Kinect) two years later in 2009. The development of the camera also led to the development of a fitness video game to go with the camera, which spawned \"Your Shape\".\n\nThe U.S. release of the game would feature an endorsement and appearances by model and comedian Jenny McCarthy, appearing as its in-game \"workout buddy\" to follow along with and motivate players while performing the exercise routines.\n\n\"Your Shape\" was released to mixed reviews by critics. Its motion tracking camera was met with positive reception for its ease of setup and accuracy; allowing \"Your Shape\" to not require any special accessories or controllers for use. However, reviewers also noted that a large play area was required to make the camera function with the game properly.\n\nGameSpot's Brett Todd gave \"Your Shape\" a 5.0 out of 10. While its camera was noted as a positive aspect, \"Your Shape\" was panned for taking too much of a \"no frills\" and female-oriented approach in comparison to other games in its category (such as \"Wii Fit\" and \"EA Sports Active\"); including few customization options and no minigames, bland routines consisting of only straight aerobics with little variation. Todd also criticized the game for containing flattering and off-putting imagery, (such as the 3D image of the player's body used as a menu (compared to an airport scanner), and showing the feed from the camera on-screen during a routine) and concluded that \"there isn't much in \"Your Shape\" that will get you off the couch.\"\n\n"}
