{"id": "41321151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41321151", "title": "Abuja Declaration (2001)", "text": "Abuja Declaration (2001)\n\nThe Abuja Declarations and Frameworks for Action on Roll Back Malaria was a pledge made in 2001 by members of the African Union during a conference in Abuja, Nigeria. In it, the member nations pledged to increase their health budget to at least 15% of the state´s annual budget, and requested Western donor countries to increase their support. Tracking the progress of the efforts, the World Health Organization reported in 2010 that only one African country had reached that target, while 26 had increased health expenditures and 11 had reduced it. Nine others had not had a noticeable negative or positive trend.\n\n"}
{"id": "53053686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53053686", "title": "Alcohol in Somalia", "text": "Alcohol in Somalia\n\nAlcohol in Somalia is prohibited by the country's strict Muslim culture, but historically was allowed in the country and continues to exist illicitly. During the period of Italian Somalia, rum was produced from local sugarcane, continuing until the fall of the Siad Barre regime in 1991, though others report some local consumption of rum continues.\n"}
{"id": "1555419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555419", "title": "Alliance for Cannabis Therapeutics", "text": "Alliance for Cannabis Therapeutics\n\nThe Alliance for Cannabis Therapeutics (ACT) is an organization supporting medical marijuana that was founded in 1981 by Robert C. Randall and Alice O'Leary. Randall was the first person known to have successfully used medical necessity as a defense against a charge of marijuana possession in violation of the Controlled Substances Act.\n\nClare Hodges aka Elizabeth Brice founded the Alliance for Cannabis Therapeutics (ACT) in the UK after contacting the Alice O'Leary and Robert Randall in 1992 about the medical benefits of marijuana for individuals suffering from multiple sclerosis. \n\nThe group participated in the 1986 hearings on cannabis rescheduling in the United States. ACT along with NORML petitioned for review of the final order of the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration which followed the hearings. See Alliance for Cannabis Therapeutics v. DEA, 930 F.2d 936 (D.C.Cir.1991)\n\n"}
{"id": "31820751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31820751", "title": "Berkeley Student Food Collective", "text": "Berkeley Student Food Collective\n\nThe Berkeley Student Food Collective (BSFC) is a collectively operated non-profit grocery market founded by students of the University of California, Berkeley near the Berkeley campus. The market aims to expand student access to as many organic, locally sourced, fair trade and whole foods as possible. It also aims to educate the community about the food system and its environmental, social and political impacts. It opened its doors in 2010, after having won a $91,000 grant from UC Berkeley's The Green Initiative Fund (TGIF). The collective serves a selection of produce, refrigerated and packaged goods, as well as a weekly subscription-style produce box that contains local, seasonal produce. The storefront is located across the street from the university, on Bancroft Way.\n\nIn 2009, the national fast food chain Panda Express attempted to open a restaurant on Lower Sproul Plaza on the UC Berkeley campus, an area run by the ASUC student government. Students were angered that a business they considered to be unhealthy, unsustainable and unrepresentative of their community was coming to their space and began a campaign to prevent its opening. A petition against Panda Express gathered 1,300 signatures, and students held demonstrations at ASUC Store Operations Board planning meetings.\n\nThis movement inspired students to create their own business that represented their interests and provided better food options for the campus community. The Berkeley Student Food Collective began as a student group and worked towards opening a grocery storefront, which opened on November 15, 2010. The cooperative was the inspiration for the Cooperative Food Empowerment Directive (CoFED), an organization helping students form sustainable food businesses on college campuses.\n\nThe student food collective has a physical store on Bancroft Way, near the UC Berkeley campus. The store offers a variety of food and other items that are healthy and/or sustainable options. They have fresh produce every day including vegetables like chard, broccoli, kale, lettuce, carrots, and parsley and fruits like apples, oranges, grapefruit, tomatoes, lemons, tangerines, and pumpkins. The student workers prepare fresh foods including smoothies, vegan sandwiches, pastas, and salads. The collective also offers prepackaged lunch items like tofu burgers, wraps, and bento boxes. There are a wide variety of snacks like granolas, nuts, dried fruits, coffee beans, chocolate covered raisins, yogurt covered pretzels, and chia chunks. They also offer drinks like coffee, kombucha, and tea as well as pastries. In addition to all the food items, the collective also sells soap, shampoo, lip balm, cleaning products, reusable bags, and water bottles. The physical store is open from Monday to Sunday, with shorter operating hours on Saturday and Sunday. The collective also offers bulk ordering of items normally offered in-store.\n\nThey have a weekly produce box simply named \"The Box\", which includes $15 worth of local, organic produce, and corresponding recipes. People can pick up their order on campus.\n\nThe BSFC is run cooperatively, which means that each member has a say in the store's operations. Anyone, not just students, can become a member or shop at the store. Membership is obtained by volunteering in the store or on a committee for two hours a week. In return, members receive a 10% discount on store purchases. Members should attend membership meetings that occur once every two weeks. This is where members get to meet people outside of their committees, share their ideas, and debate and vote on issues that can't be resolved in committees because they require the input of the entire collective. They can also join a committee to meet people with a similar interests and implement BSFC related projects. There are seven BSFC committees dedicated to education, outreach, policy, food preparation, membership, fundraising, and the storefront. This gives members a chance to work on logistical side of running a cooperative educational grocery store. Being a member also means they can run and vote for board member positions. There are fifteen coordinator titles on the board of directors, consisting of publicity, education, membership, fundraising, outreach, food events, product, produce, policy, storefront, communications, information technology, food preparation, events, and finance. Elections occur every semester and the current director may opt to run again One or two people may serve under one title.\n\nThere are fifteen director positions. \nThe Board of Directors meets weekly to make executive decisions on a consensus basis before bringing items to membership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18210341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18210341", "title": "Britain's Missing Top Model", "text": "Britain's Missing Top Model\n\nBritain's Missing Top Model was a British Reality TV modelling show for disabled women, aired on BBC Three. The premiere episode aired on 1 July 2008. The show courted controversy, with many arguing that the show made disability a spectator event.\n\nThe show followed eight young women with disabilities, who competed for a modelling contract (which included a photo shoot with Rankin and a cover photo in \"Marie Claire\"). One of the contestants, Sophie Morgan, had already appeared on another reality TV show, \"Beyond Boundaries\", in 2005. The series aired over a period of five weeks. The women lived together and competed in a series of challenges and photo shoots. Each week, at least one contestant was sent home.\n\nThe winner of the competition was 23-year-old Kelly Knox.\n\n\"Original Airdate: 1 July 2008\"\n\nThe eight women met up in the penthouse where they would be living. Jonathan Phang met them and gave them their first outfits: a white vest, shorts and trainers, simple hair and make-up, to show their shape. They met up with the judges and they were asked questions. They were told their first task was called \"Objects of desire\" – an haute couture shoot, which involved being sat on a chaise lounge with an object that represented how they feel about their disabilities. They went to a market to search for their objects.\n\n\nAfter the photoshoot, the girls lined up on Trafalgar Square and their photos were shown on a big screen for everyone to see. Sophie commented that this was why her accident happened; so she can do things like this.\n\nAfter the photoshoot, the women returned home to find a buffet had been laid out for them. Jessica was questioned why she didn't drink. She replied that she wanted to always have control of her body. She then got emotional that her disability will ultimately kill her. The other women were sympathetic yet also apathetic about their own views on their own disabilities; Kelly said \"I don't give a fucking shit!\" about her missing forearm. Sophie didn't want to dwell on disability and wanted to enjoy the evening.\n\nWhen the judges saw the pictures, they questioned Lilli about how she would cope being a model and being deaf. This angered her as they never asked personal questions regarding being deaf to Kellie, the only other deaf contestant.\n\n\n\"Original Airdate: 8 July 2008\"\n\nThe first task was to be a lingerie window model in a lingerie shop. The response was positive from the public. However, Sophie complained that Kellie, one of the deaf contestants, did not look disabled, that she had \"big boobs, big arse, a body that's great,\" whereas she's a paraplegic and looks disabled. Jonathan Phang, their mentor, invited himself round to dinner, and purposefully did not bring a sign language interpreter, his reason being that Kellie and Lilli have to be able to cope without an interpreter if they were models, which upset them both.\n\nThe second task given was a casting challenge to win the opportunity to show Louis Mariette's hats at a fashion show. Each model was given one of Mariette's hats to pose in and was asked questions, like in a beauty pageant. Kellie won, which displeased Sophie as Kellie was able to pose in different positions and she couldn't pose as much, and using Kellie is not the same as using a disabled model as the only difference is language: \"It's the same as picking someone who speaks French\"\n\nThat night, they all went out to party, except Jessica who needs to sleep because of her ME(her disability).\n\nThe next morning, they were phoned by the casting location to be there in half an hour. This was to test their punctuality when they need to be at a casting call quickly. Debbie, Kelly, Sophie and Jenny all rushed ahead to get a taxi, leaving Jessica, Lilli and Kellie to get to the location themselves. Lilli and Kellie were annoyed that the others didn't take the time to explain what was happening, but Debbie was insistent that she was being clear. Jonathan Pang wasn't happy with their lack of cooperation. They each took it in turn to be interviewed by a casting director, and modelled an item of clothing.\n\nA 1950s pin-up photoshoot followed, where the photos would be judged. The photoshoot was 1950s pin-up, the task that their photos would be judged by the judges. The scenarios of the models' photoshoots were as follows:\n\n\nAt the end of the day, when the women sat at the table, Kellie and Lilli brought earplugs for the others to help them understand what it's like to be deaf. They sat around and had to mouth their speech, which proved difficult for them to understand each other.\n\nThe judges announced that 2 people would be eliminated. The judges were presented with 1950s pin-up photos. When they met the judges, Lilli was upset yet again at their feedback – they told her she should tone up her belly.\n\n\n\"Original Airdate: 15 July 2008\"\n\nThis task was a catwalk. They met with a choreographer who taught them how to walk. He paid close attention to how to help Sophie move her wheelchair in a model-like fashion. Sophie got upset as she missed walking and dancing. It proved difficult for Jenny also as her ataxia makes it difficult to walk, let alone walk in stilettos. Jessica spent part of her time there asleep due to her ME. They were also given a selection of outfits that they would model on the catwalk. They were each given a new hairstyle as well. They were also given MP3 players with the music they would walk to, which had to be put on the loudest possible volume for Kellie, who's deaf, so she could feel the vibrations. Jenny also got upset as she found the catwalk difficult due to her ataxia making her body shake; \"My body won't do what I tell it to do.\"\n\nAt the catwalk, the judges and Jonathan Phang (mentor) were in the audience, as well as family members and friends. Jenny wore flat shoes so she could walk easier. Kellie missed her cue as the director had forgotten about her and didn't let her know when to go. Afterwards, Jenny talked to Mark Summers, one of the judges, and jokingly grinded and flirted with him.\n\nAt the judging part, this was used against her and Mark asked her if that was appropriate behaviour towards him. Jenny apologised for her behaviour, but replied that she knows she is a flirty person. Jenny also said to Jessica that she couldn't do this. Jessica was understandably upset by this, but Sophie backed Jenny's comment by saying that Jenny wasn't niggling over her shoulder, but questioning whether it was possible for her because of her conditions as she needs sleep, which was proved at the training. Jessica replied that she is getting better. When the girls left so the judges could decide, Jenny exclaimed that Jessica was \"a fucking child\", and \"she's not getting any better, she's faking it!\"\n\n\n\"Original Airdate: 22 July 2008\"\n\nThis task featured male models Daniel Lake, Tommy Maxwell, Matthew McDonough and Eric Monjoin. For the first part each contestant was paired up with a male model and had to hug and touch each other to get used to the closeness for the photoshoots. The second part was a challenge set by Alenka. The challenge was for each couple to star in an advert, advertising a fake brand ice cream, Pang's Ice cream (names after Jonathan Pang, their mentor). Kellie struggled the most as she was told to speak, when she was more comfortable signing. She argued that British Sign Language is her language and Sophie was allowed her wheelchair on the catwalk task, why shouldn't she be allowed to sign? By learning that models used in adverts are sometimes dubbed, she did two adverts – she spoke in one, and signed in the other. Jessica slept through most the rehearsal due to her ME.\n\n\nThe contestants and the male models returned to the penthouse where they were treated to a chocolate fountain. Jessica felt embarrassed about how Sophie and Kelly loudly pointed out she was a lesbian, which she felt was unnecessary. Kellie got upset that she wasn't following the conversation with the others and left.\n\nAt the photoshoot, the women were photographed with their partners in an old house. Sophie had to be carried by her partner up the stairs as there was no lift. The photographs are as follows:\n\nAfter the photoshoot, Phang treats them to eat at a posh restaurant. Jessica compares her disabilities to Kellie and Sophie's disabilities and lists the things she can't do, which is quickly pointed out by Sophie. Jessica explains that she needs to prove her disability to other people, to get help. Sophie doesn't like how Jessica desires to be labelled and to be recognised as disabled, which ends in Sophie telling her, \"Stop feeling sorry for yourself!\"\n\nThe judges commented on Kellie's picture that she looked uneasy and uncomfortable in her picture. They equally told Kelly that her appearance was cold.\n\n\n\"Original Airdate: 29 July 2008\"\n\nThe episode was split into 2 rounds. The first round was a photo shoot at an East London housing estate. The photographer made sure that their disabilities were hidden; Kelly was positioned so her missing forearm was hidden, Sophie was out of her wheelchair, and Jessica took off her wrist splints. The photos are as follows:\n\nDuring the photoshoot, Kelly complained that there's nothing wrong with Jessica as she held the watering can with no problem. Jessica slept for some of the time due to her ME, but when she awoke, the zip from her jacket left an imprint on her face and needed make up to cover that.\n\nIn the evening, the girls accompanied Jonathan Phang at a ball, acting as ambassadors for the disabled modelling cause. Kelly didn't eat much and became drunk after Phang left. She leapt onto a bush and threw up. Sophie was unimpressed as they were acting as ambassadors and Kelly was not representing the cause well.\n\nThe judges looked at the photos. Lara Masters, who is a wheelchair user herself, was upset at how the photographer had hidden their disabilities, but the other judges dismissed her comment, stating that not all the photos have to show their disabilities. Mark Summers commented about Jessica holding the watering can. Without her wrist splints, Jessica's hands are paralysed, but she showed how her fingers naturally curled up and she was able to hold the watering can by her fingers. When she was asked how much sleep she needs (which had been an issue through the series) she replied that there is no telling when she needs to sleep.\n\n\nWhen Jessica was eliminated, she said she would 'rule the world' one day.\n\nThe final challenge was a monochrome nude photoshoot. Kelly let the photographer tell her what to do; which resulted in her photo being of her kneeling on a couch, just being made apparent that her forearm is missing. Sophie made suggestions of what she could do, and her photo was of her sitting on the floor with her foot on the wheel of her wheelchair.\n\n\n\"Original Airdate: 5 June 2008\"\n\nIn this episode, Kelly had a photo shoot with Rankin, and the photos were assessed by individuals from Marie Claire magazine. The episode also contained interviews with the 7 other contestants, recapping on their best and worst moments throughout the series.\n\n\nThe hair makeovers were administered by Lino Carbosiero at the Daniel Galvin Salon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413025", "title": "Car-Free Days", "text": "Car-Free Days\n\nWorld Car Free Day, which is celebrated on September 22, encourages motorists to give up their cars for a day. Organized events are held in some cities and countries. According to \"The Washington Post\", the event \"promotes improvement of mass transit, cycling and walking, and the development of communities where jobs are closer to home and where shopping is within walking distance\". Studies showed that for short trips in cities, one can reach more quickly using a bicycle rather than using a car.\n\nThe events, which vary by location, give motorists and commuters an idea of their locality with fewer cars. While projects along these lines had taken place from time to time on an \"ad hoc\" basis starting with the 1973 oil crisis, it was only in October 1994 that a structured call for such projects was issued in a keynote speech by Eric Britton at the International Ciudades Accessibles (Accessible Cities) Conference held in Toledo (Spain).\n\nWithin two years the first Days were organized in Reykjavík (Iceland), Bath (United Kingdom) and La Rochelle (France), and the informal World Car Free Days Consortium was organized in 1995 to support Car-Free Days worldwide. The first national campaign was inaugurated in Britain by the Environmental Transport Association in 1997, the French followed suit in 1998 as In town, without my car! and was established as a Europe-wide initiative by the European Commission in 2000. In the same year the Commission enlarged the program to a full European Mobility Week which now is the major focus of the Commission, with the Car-Free Day part of a greater \"new mobility\" whole.\nAlso in 2000, car free days went global with a World Carfree Day program launched by Carbusters, now World Carfree Network, and in the same year the Earth Car Free Day collaborative program of the Earth Day Network and the World Car Free Days collaborative.\n\nWhile considerable momentum has been achieved in terms of media coverage, these events turn out to be difficult to organize to achieve real success (perhaps requiring significant reorganization of the host city's transportation arrangement) and even a decade later there is considerable uncertainty about the usefulness of this approach. Broad public support and commitment to change is needed for successful implementation. By some counts by advocates (disputed), more than a thousand cities worldwide organized “Days” during 2005.\n\nCurrently Bogotá holds the world's largest car-free weekday event covering the entire city. The first car-free day was held in February 2000 and became institutionalised through a public referendum.\n\nIn September 2007, Jakarta, the capital city of Indonesia, held its first Car-Free Day that closed the main avenue of the city from cars and invited local pedestrian to exercise and having their activities on the streets that normally full of cars and traffic. Along the road from the Senayan traffic circle on Jalan Sudirman, South Jakarta, to the Selamat Datang Monument at the Hotel Indonesia traffic circle on Jalan Thamrin, all the way north to National Monument Central Jakarta, cars are cleared out for pedestrians. Since May 2012 Car-Free Day in Jakarta is held every Sunday. It is held on the main avenues of the city, Jalan Sudirman and Jalan Thamrin, from Senayan area to Monas (Monumen Nasional), from 6 AM to 11 AM.\nWhile not an officially organized Car-Free Day, every year traffic in Israel stops (except for emergency vehicles) for more than 24 hours in observance of Yom Kippur. This encompasses all motorized vehicles, including cars and public transportation (buses, trains, taxis, airplanes etc.). Cycling enthusiasts of the Hiloni stream and other religions take advantage of this, and roads (except in religious neighborhoods) become de facto esplanade and cycleways. Air pollution in Israel that day, measured by nitrogen oxides, drop by 99 percent.\n\nThe 1994 Car Free Day Call set out a challenge for a city, neighborhood or group:\n\n\nThe exercise considered car users to be \"addicts\" who need to be \"treated\" in some way. The organisers considered this to mean that motorists should have no choice but to be without cars, at least for a time. In this particular instance the proposed \"treatment\" was to find an answer to the following question in three main parts:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Environmental Transport Association set the initial annual Car-Free Day on the first Tuesday in their Green Transport Week (around 17 June), since 2000 it was agreed to make it a self-standing day held on September 22, originally as a pan-European day organised under the auspices of the European Commission and later with international extensions—during which a large number of cities around the world are invited to close their centers to cars. Pedestrians, bicycles, public transit and other forms of sustainable transportation are encouraged on these days. People can reflect on what their city would look like with a lot fewer cars, and what might be needed to make this happen. Advocates claim that over 100 million people in 1,500 cities celebrate International Car-Free Day, though on days and in ways of their choice. This claim however is not confirmed.\nOver the first decade of the car-free day movement (1994–2005), the world has seen hundreds of cities giving the CFD (Car Free Day) approach a try in very different circumstances, some good, some undeniably bad, some of them on several occasions.\nActivists in this field wondered what were the actual accomplishments. They suggested that it was agreeable to have a pleasant day with fewer cars and probably fewer accidents at least in some parts of the city, but considered that this was not the bottom line. For them the goal of a Car Free Day had from the beginning been to serve as a small step, as a catalyst in a much larger and more ambitious process of citywide systemic transformation toward a more truly sustainable mobility system. They suggested that with rare exceptions they were not seeing anything like that.\nThe persons involved in the movement thought that after ten years it was time to stand back and look hard to see what if any difference this approach has made. They asked themselves if CFDs made here or there had produced any significant permanent impacts on cities and the ways human beings get around in them. They wondered if they could be content with what the great bulk of these projects and programs had achieved and just keep going on as-is, or if it were not time to stand back and look again. They decided to fight complacency with a new international collaborative program starting in 2004.\n\nThe following chronology assembles some of the main events of the last decades, which together have gradually built on each other's accomplishments to leave us today with a movement that is only now beginning to get under way. There are a very large number of cities and events that are not covered here.\n\n"}
{"id": "40329649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40329649", "title": "Condom challenge", "text": "Condom challenge\n\nThe condom challenges are two viral Internet challenges. The first is a challenge involving snorting a latex condom through one's nasal cavity and into the back of the throat; the second is a challenge where a water-filled condom is dropped onto a person's head, typically enveloping the head of the person taking part. Both variations carry a risk of choking.\n\nThe earlier challenge consists of inserting a latex condom into a nostril and snorting it into the nasal cavity and back through the throat to be pulled out of the mouth. The challenge originated in May 2006, when a video was uploaded onto Break.com of a young man successfully completing the challenge. The term \"condom challenge\" was coined in May 2012 following the widespread popularity of the cinnamon challenge, but the idea dates to the early 1990s when it was a staple of Matt \"The Tube\" Crowley's performances at the Jim Rose Circus Sideshow, and videos of challenge attempts date to at least 2007. The challenge went viral in 2013, when WorldStarHipHop posted a video of two young women attempting the challenge, and several people subsequently uploaded videos onto the Internet of themselves attempting the challenge.\n\nThe stunt poses potential choking hazards.\n\nThe later challenge, popularised in November 2015, involves filling a condom with water and filming it being dropped on one's head. This often results in the condom enveloping and adhering to the participant's face, giving the impression that they have somehow became immersed in the water held within the condom. \"The Guardian\" newspaper noted the danger in putting an airtight seal over one's nose and mouth.\n"}
{"id": "11087233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11087233", "title": "Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials", "text": "Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials\n\nCONSORT (Consolidated Standards Of Reporting Trials) encompasses various initiatives developed by the CONSORT Group to alleviate the problems arising from inadequate reporting of randomized controlled trials.\n\nThe main product of the CONSORT Group is the CONSORT Statement, which is an evidence-based, minimum set of recommendations for reporting randomized trials. It offers a standard way for authors to prepare reports of trial findings, facilitating their complete and transparent reporting, reducing the influence of bias on their results, and aiding their critical appraisal and interpretation.\n\nThe most recent version of the Statement—the CONSORT 2010 Statement—consists of a 25-item checklist and a participant flow diagram, along with some brief descriptive text. The checklist items focus on reporting how the trial was designed, analyzed, and interpreted; the flow diagram displays the progress of all participants through the trial. The Statement has been translated into several languages.\n\nThe CONSORT ‘Explanation and Elaboration’ document explains and illustrates the principles underlying the CONSORT Statement. It is strongly recommended that it is used in conjunction with the CONSORT Statement.\n\nConsidered an evolving document, the CONSORT Statement is subject to periodic changes as new evidence emerges; the most recent update was published in March 2010. The current definitive version of the CONSORT Statement and up-to-date information on extensions are placed on the CONSORT website.\n\nThe main CONSORT Statement is based on the 'standard' two-group parallel design. Extensions of the CONSORT Statement have been developed to give additional guidance for randomized trials with specific designs (e.g., cluster randomized trials, noninferiority and equivalence trials, pragmatic trials,), data (e.g., harms, abstracts), and interventions (e.g., herbals, non-pharmacologic treatments, acupuncture). This list is, by no means, exhaustive, and work is ongoing.\n\nIn 1993, 30 experts - medical journal editors, clinical trialists, epidemiologists, and methodologists - met in Ottawa, Canada to discuss ways of improving the reporting of randomized trials. This meeting resulted in the Standardized Reporting of Trials (SORT) statement, a 32-item checklist and flow diagram in which investigators were encouraged to report on how randomized trials were conducted.\n\nConcurrently, and independently, another group of experts, the Asilomar Working Group on Recommendations for Reporting of Clinical Trials in the Biomedical Literature, convened in California, USA, and were working on a similar mandate. This group also published recommendations for authors reporting randomized trials.\n\nAt the suggestion of Dr. Drummond Rennie, from JAMA, in 1995 representatives from both these groups met in Chicago, USA, with the aim of merging the best of the SORT and Asilomar proposals into a single, coherent evidence-based recommendation. This resulted in the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) Statement, which was first published in 1996. Further meetings of the CONSORT Group in 1999 and 2000 led to the publication of the revised CONSORT Statement in 2001.\n\nSince the revision in 2001, the evidence base to inform CONSORT has grown considerably; empirical data highlighting new concerns regarding the reporting of randomized trials. Therefore, a third CONSORT Group meeting was held in 2007 resulting in publication of a newly revised CONSORT Statement and explanatory document in 2010. Users of the guideline are strongly recommended to refer to the most up-to-date version while writing or interpreting reports of clinical trials.\n\nThe CONSORT Statement has gained considerable support since its inception in 1996. Over 600 journals and editorial groups worldwide now endorse it, including The Lancet, BMJ, JAMA, New England Journal of Medicine, World Association of Medical Editors, and International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. The 2001 revised Statement has been cited over 1,200 times and the accompanying explanatory document over 500 times. Another indication of CONSORT’s impact is reflected in the approximately 17,500 hits per month that the CONSORT website has received. It has also recently been published as a book for those involved in the planning, conducting and interpretation of clinical trials.\n\nResults from a recent systematic review suggest that use of the CONSORT checklist is associated with improved reporting of randomized trials.\n\nSimilar initiatives to improve the reporting of other types of research have arisen after the introduction of CONSORT. They include: Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE), Standards for the Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (STARD), Strengthening the Reporting of Genetic Association studies (STREGA), Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA), Standards for Quality Improvement Reporting Excellence (SQUIRE), among others. These reporting guidelines have been incorporated into the EQUATOR Network initiative to enhance the transparent and accurate reporting of research studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "7759491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7759491", "title": "Crown-rump length", "text": "Crown-rump length\n\nCrown-rump length (CRL) is the measurement of the length of human embryos and fetuses from the top of the head (crown) to the bottom of the buttocks (rump). It is typically determined from ultrasound imagery and can be used to estimate gestational age.\n\nThe embryo and fetus float in the amniotic fluid inside the uterus of the mother usually in a curved posture resembling the letter \"C\". The measurement can actually vary slightly if the fetus is temporarily stretching (straightening) its body. The measurement needs to be in the natural state with an unstretched body which is actually \"C\" shaped. The measurement of CRL is useful in determining the gestational age (menstrual age starting from the first day of the last menstrual period) and thus the expected date of delivery (EDD). Different babies do grow at different rates and thus the gestational age is an approximation. Recent evidence has indicated that CRL growth (and thus the approximation of gestational age) may be influenced by maternal factors such as age, smoking, and folic acid intake. Early in pregnancy it is accurate within +/- 4 days but later in pregnancy due to different growth rates, the accuracy is less. In that situation, other parameters can be used in addition to CRL. The length of the umbilical cord is approximately equal to the CRL throughout pregnancy.\n\nGestational age is not the same as fertilization age. It takes about 14 days from the first day of the last menstrual period for conception to take place and thus for the conceptus to form. The age from this point in time (conception) is called the fertilization age and is thus 2 weeks shorter than the gestational age. Thus a 6-week gestational age would be a 4-week fertilization age. Some authorities however casually interchange these terms and the reader is advised to be cautious. An average gestational period (duration of pregnancy from the first day of the last menstrual period up to delivery) is 280 days. On average, this is 9 months and 6 days.\n\nThe following formula is an approximation that can be used up to 14 weeks of gestational age, with CRL in mm and gestational age in days:\n\nGestational age = (CRL x 1.037) x 8.052 + 23.73\n\n"}
{"id": "25714482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25714482", "title": "Disability abuse", "text": "Disability abuse\n\nDisability abuse is when a person with a disability is abused physically, financially, sexually and/or psychologically due to the person having a disability. Since many disabilities are not visible (for example, asthma, schizophrenia, or learning disabilities) some abusers cannot rationalise the non-physical disability with a need for understanding, support, and so on. Since some disabled people are in need of additional support from others throughout their lives, they are also vulnerable to neglect. Disability abuse has also been considered a hate crime. The abuse is not limited to those who are visibly disabled such as wheelchair-users or physically deformed such as those with a cleft lip but also those with learning disabilities or difficulties such as dyslexia and dysgraphia, and other disabilities, including autism spectrum disorder, Down syndrome and developmental coordination disorder. In the latter case, this is linked to a poor ability in physical education, and this behaviour can be encouraged by an unthinking physical education teacher. Abuse of the disabled is not limited to schools. There are many known cases in which the disabled have been abused by staff of a care institution, such as the case revealed in a BBC \"Panorama\" programme on a Castlebeck care home (Winterbourne View) near Bristol which led to its closure and the suspension or dismissal of some of the staff.\n\nThose with learning disabilities are often not as able to explain things to other people so are more likely to be disbelieved or ignored if they do complain. There was one study done that shows 60 percent of the children with disabilities come forth about being bullied regularly, versus 25 percent of the students who are being bullied with no disabilities. This can also affect their learning and school and education. Their grades are more at risk in dropping, they have a more difficult time concentrating, and there is no interest in school and the learning material. All of this can lead to the child dropping out of school.\n\nThere have been numerous cases of parents of children with disabilities who have murdered their children because of their disabilities. Sometimes the parents kill themselves alongside their child. It was even advocated by Aristotle in the case of congenital deformity—\"As to the exposure of children, let there be a law that no deformed child shall live.\" and is documented in various indigenous societies. \nDisabled girls and women are particularly vulnerable to abuse.\n\nBullying is an aggressive behavior or attitude towards a person that is unwanted. It is usually a repeated behavior. There is more than just one type of bullying, there is verbal bullying, social, and physical. Verbal bullying consist of name calling a person, teasing, and threatening to cause harm to the person. Social abuse is intentionally leaving a person out while in a social setting or gathering, or taunting the person. Physical abuse consist of hitting or pushing someone, pulling their hair, tripping them, or breaking their belongings intentionally. Bullying happens usually before or after school hours, and it is usually done on campus or on the playground of the school. However, it can also happen while on the school bus or going to and from the school bus. Bullying can also happen through the internet or through the phone as well, this is known as cyber bullying.\n\nA 2012 survey by the Interactive Autism Network found that 63% of children with autism are bullied in the United States.\n\nOver a third of autistic adults said they had been bullied at work in a survey by the UK's National Autistic Society.\n\n82% of children with learning disability in the UK are bullied, according to Mencap, and 79% are scared to go out in case they are bullied.\n\nA survey that was done shows that roughly 7 out of 10 people with disabilities have been abused, and that it is an ongoing problem. It was also found that bullying people with disabilities is a problem that is going on in different countries as well, and that problem is not always surfaced and given attention to.\n\nBullying is also a cause of disability and exacerbates existing disabilities.\n\nBullying can take occur in a variety of forms. They aren't always physical. Verbal bullying and nonverbal bullying are the ones that occur very often. Catherine Thornberry and Karin Olson claim that carers often dehumanize disabled people, taking away their abilities and qualities that make them a person and lowering them to the level of just an object or a thing. They found that the caregivers or assistants are often the ones who are unintentionally bullying the disabled individuals. The caregivers look at the individuals at lower standard than they do other people, leading to their labeling of disabled individuals as a hate crime.\n\nBullying a child with a disability is considered to be harassment.\n\nDisabled people are more vulnerable to sexual abuse than the general population for numerous reasons. As they are less likely to report what has happened to them, their rapists are able to get away with the abuse. Victims often not taken seriously due to ableism which intersects with societal myths about sexual violence, for example, that 'ugly' people aren't raped, since society's beauty standard devalues disability.\n\nAccording to Valenti-Hein & Schwartz, only 3% of sexual abuse cases involving developmentally disabled people are ever reported, more than 90% of developmentally disabled people will experience sexual abuse at some point in their lives, and 49% will experience 10 or more abusive incidents.\n\nA study published in the \"British Journal of Psychiatry\" by Sequeira, Howlin, & Hollins found that sexual abuse is associated with a higher incidence of psychiatric and behavioural disorder in people with learning disabilities in a case-control study. Sexual abuse was associated with increased rates of mental illness and behavioural problems, and with symptoms of post-traumatic stress. Psychological reactions to abuse were similar to those observed in the general population, but with the addition of stereotypical behaviour. The more serious the abuse, the more severe the symptoms that were reported.\n\nSexual abuse is less likely to be reported by individuals with disabilities. The people that surround these individuals are often found to be less likely to report these cases of abuse. Society sees the disabled as weak and vulnerable targets, making it easy for the abuser to not feel guilty or to blame themselves. More often than not people figure they can trust their physicians or doctors who provide care for these individuals. In a clinical study it was found that the physicians would provide poor quality of care to individuals with disabilities. They would suppress the problems instead of addressing them by giving them drugs to make them be quiet. It was also found that physicians were less likely to report sexual abuse or any abuse that they found present on these individuals. The justified these actions by believing that in society that disabled people matter less than any other person.\n\nExtreme disability abuse can lead directly or indirectly to death. In Tanzania, people with albinism are hunted by witchcraft practitioners for their organs.\n\nIn England and Wales over 1700 disability hate crimes were recorded by police in 2011 and 2012, but a review by the Crown Prosecution Service said that they are 'overlooked' and 'under-reported'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56670914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56670914", "title": "Disability in Zambia", "text": "Disability in Zambia\n\nPeople with disability in Zambia face many unique challenges. The country has been passing laws and policies to help people with disabilities in Zambia, however, social stigma and other factors sometimes interfere in people being able to access services and assistance. In addition, the HIV epidemic in Zambia also has a significant impact on the lives of people with disabilities.\n\nAs of 2008, it was estimated that around 256,000 in Zambia have a disability in some form and around 5.4% of that number have an intellectual disability. In 2011, it was estimated that the numbers may actually be somewhere between 1 and 2 million people with disability in Zambia. Sixty percent of Zambians live in rural areas where they have limited access to healthcare. People with disabilities have an employment rate of 45.5%, which is lower than the 58% rate for people without disabilities, according to 2005 statistics.\n\nCare-giving roles for people with disabilities in Zambia has shifted to a younger demographic than in previous years. This is in part due to the drop in life expectancy in Zambia.\n\nIn general, people with disability often face social stigma in Zambia. Zambian people with disability can be thought to be the victims of witchcraft by others. Modern Zambian religious beliefs have come to accept and embrace individuals with disabilities over time. Some Zambians attribute a shift to Christianity to the new, more positive, views on people with disability in Zambia. In the workplace, individuals still face discrimination.\n\nRelatives are expected to care for individuals who have a disability. However, there are boarding schools for children with disabilities, and these are often utilized when the children had been orphaned or abandoned. People with disabilities and who are also HIV positive are further marginalized by their communities. People with disability are often expected to rely on charity.\n\nPeople with disabilities, especially women and those who are HIV positive are assumed to have no sexuality or sex lives by others in Zambia. Disabled women attempting to access health care are often discouraged from visiting health centres, especially for sexual and maternal health needs.\n\nDisability issues in Zambia fall under the control of the Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare, now known as the Ministry of Community Development, Mother and Child Health (MCDMCH). However, overall, there is a lack of government support for individuals with disabilities. Individuals who have an intellectual disability cannot receive social welfare benefits. A trust fund, managed by the Zambia Agency for Persons with Disabilities, give out funds to mostly individuals with physical disabilities.\n\nZambia's Fifth National Development Plan has made some progress in helping people with disabilities in Zambia achieve equal status.\n\nLaws requiring ramps for schools and public buildings were passed in 2012. However, many of the ramps that have been built are not suitable for people with physical disabilities. The largest museum in Zambia, the Livingstone Museum, installed a ramp and other accessibility features in 2006.\n\nThe Ministry of Education in Zambia handles special education in the schools. The Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority (TEVETA) is also involved in both education and employment. People with disabilities in Zambia experience difficulty accessing educational opportunities. Special education services have been very limited in Zambia. Parents of children with intellectual disabilities (ID) in Lusaka reported that there were challenges to meeting the social needs of their young adult children.\n\nThe first organisation focusing on helping people with disabilities, The Northern Rhodesia Society for the Blind, was formed in 1952.\n\nThe Zambia Association for Children and Adults with Learning Disabilities (ZACALD) is one of the most prominent organisations to advocate for individuals with intellectual disabilities in Zambia. The Zambia Agency for Persons with Disabilities (ZAPD) works with the government to advise on policy and advocate for people with disabilities. In addition, the Zambia Federation of Disability Organisations (ZAFOD) has been cited by the Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa (OSISA) as an active and influential organisation in Zambia. ZAFOD advocates for disability rights and promotes teaching issues relating to people with disabilities in tertiary schools in the country.\n\nIn 1996, the Zambian government passed the Disability Act of 1996. This act bans discrimination based on disability. This act was repealed in 2012 and replaced with the Persons with Disability Act of 2012. The new act is meant to implement the UN Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.\n\nIn 1998, the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Act was passed and a provision considers the needs of people with disability. The Workers' Compensation Act of 1999 changed the law relating to workers' compensation for injuries on the job.\n\nZambia is affected by a generalized HIV epidemic. Individuals with disabilities face unique challenges in getting access to HIV testing and treatment. There is also a lack of information and education available in formats such as Braille, large print or via sign-language interpreters. Children with disabilities also have trouble accessing HIV prevention information. In addition, the social stigma of disability and having HIV means that some individuals prefer to die at home rather than receive treatment for HIV. People who are both HIV positive and have a disability have reported that \"they were seen as 'other' and 'less than human' by\" health care providers. They report \"disability-related stigma that became heightened by the presence of HIV.\"\n\nMany disabled individuals have reported losing their jobs after discovery of their HIV status has been revealed. These individuals turn to begging for money, which is also frowned upon in most Zambian communities. Those who do have jobs find that it is difficult to take their HIV medications on time outside of the home.\n\nPeople with disabilities who are also HIV positive are generally assumed to not be engaging in sexual activity, when in fact, they \"may be equally as sexually active as others and at increased risk of sexual abuse.\" Assumptions about their sexuality can impact their health. They have also had their privacy disregarded by health care workers who were shocked to discover a person with disabilities who was also HIV positive: \"whenever they find a person with disability who is positive, it becomes a shock to them. They share it with other counsellors, and then it get broken into society.\"\n\nParents of children with intellectual disabilities (ID) in Zambia have found that healthcare professionals do not have an \"understanding of their child's condition\" and the effects the condition can have on the caregivers.\n\nA project to train disabled Zambians in filmmaking was launched in 2016.\n\nDisabled sport in Zambia is organised by the National Paralympic Committee of Zambia since its establishment in 2005. Zambia has participated in Summer Paralympic Games in 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012. They have yet to win any medals.\n\nSpecial Olympics Zambia has sent teams to the 2007, 2011 and 2015 editions of the Special Olympics World Summer Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "478185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478185", "title": "Disinfectant", "text": "Disinfectant\n\nDisinfectants are antimicrobial agents that are applied to the surface of non-living objects to destroy microorganisms that are living on the objects. Disinfection does not necessarily kill all microorganisms, especially resistant bacterial spores; it is less effective than sterilization, which is an extreme physical and/or chemical process that kills all types of life. Disinfectants are different from other antimicrobial agents such as antibiotics, which destroy microorganisms within the body, and antiseptics, which destroy microorganisms on living tissue. Disinfectants are also different from biocides — the latter are intended to destroy all forms of life, not just microorganisms.\nDisinfectants work by destroying the cell wall of microbes or interfering with their metabolism.\n\nSanitizers are substances that simultaneously clean and disinfect. Disinfectants are frequently used in hospitals, dental surgeries, kitchens, and bathrooms to kill infectious organisms.\n\nBacterial endospores are most resistant to disinfectants, but some viruses and bacteria also possess some tolerance.\n\nIn wastewater treatment, a disinfection step with chlorine, ultra-violet (UV) radiation or ozonation can be included as tertiary treatment to remove pathogens from wastewater, for example if it is to be reused to irrigate golf courses. An alternative term used in the sanitation sector for disinfection of waste streams, sewage sludge or fecal sludge is sanitisation or sanitization.\n\nA perfect disinfectant would also offer complete and full microbiological sterilisation, without harming humans and useful form of life, be inexpensive, and noncorrosive. However, most disinfectants are also, by nature, potentially harmful (even toxic) to humans or animals. Most modern household disinfectants contain Bitrex, an exceptionally bitter substance added to discourage ingestion, as a safety measure. Those that are used indoors should never be mixed with other cleaning products as chemical reactions can occur. The choice of disinfectant to be used depends on the particular situation. Some disinfectants have a wide spectrum (kill many different types of microorganisms), while others kill a smaller range of disease-causing organisms but are preferred for other properties (they may be non-corrosive, non-toxic, or inexpensive).\n\nThere are arguments for creating or maintaining conditions that are not conducive to bacterial survival and multiplication, rather than attempting to kill them with chemicals. Bacteria can increase in number very quickly, which enables them to evolve rapidly. Should some bacteria survive a chemical attack, they give rise to new generations composed completely of bacteria that have resistance to the particular chemical used. Under a sustained chemical attack, the surviving bacteria in successive generations are increasingly resistant to the chemical used, and ultimately the chemical is rendered ineffective. For this reason, some question the wisdom of impregnating cloths, cutting boards and worktops in the home with bactericidal chemicals.\n\nAir disinfectants are typically chemical substances capable of disinfecting microorganisms suspended in the air. Disinfectants are generally assumed to be limited to use on surfaces, but that is not the case. In 1928, a study found that airborne microorganisms could be killed using mists of dilute bleach. An air disinfectant must be dispersed either as an aerosol or vapour at a sufficient concentration in the air to cause the number of viable infectious microorganisms to be significantly reduced.\n\nIn the 1940s and early 1950s, further studies showed inactivation of diverse bacteria, influenza virus, and \"Penicillium chrysogenum\" (previously \"P. notatum\") mold fungus using various glycols, principally propylene glycol and triethylene glycol. In principle, these chemical substances are ideal air disinfectants because they have both high lethality to microorganisms and low mammalian toxicity.\n\nAlthough glycols are effective air disinfectants in controlled laboratory environments, it is more difficult to use them effectively in real-world environments because the disinfection of air is sensitive to continuous action. Continuous action in real-world environments with outside air exchanges at door, HVAC, and window interfaces, and in the presence of materials that adsorb and remove glycols from the air, poses engineering challenges that are not critical for surface disinfection. The engineering challenge associated with creating a sufficient concentration of the glycol vapours in the air have not to date been sufficiently addressed.\n\nAlcohol and alcohol plus Quaternary ammonium cation based compounds comprise a class of proven surface sanitizers and disinfectants approved by the EPA and the Centers for Disease Control for use as a hospital grade disinfectant. Alcohols are most effective when combined with distilled water to facilitate diffusion through the cell membrane; 100% alcohol typically denatures only external membrane proteins. A mixture of 70% ethanol or isopropanol diluted in water is effective against a wide spectrum of bacteria, though higher concentrations are often needed to disinfect wet surfaces. Additionally, high-concentration mixtures (such as 80% ethanol + 5% isopropanol) are required to effectively inactivate lipid-enveloped viruses (such as HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C). \n\nThe efficacy of alcohol is enhanced when in solution with the wetting agent dodecanoic acid (coconut soap). The synergistic effect of 29.4% ethanol with dodecanoic acid is effective against a broad spectrum of bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Further testing is being performed against Clostridium difficile (C.Diff) spores with higher concentrations of ethanol and dodecanoic acid, which proved effective with a contact time of ten minutes.\n\nAldehydes, such as formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde, have a wide microbiocidal activity and are sporicidal and fungicidal. They are partly inactivated by organic matter and have slight residual activity.\n\nSome bacteria have developed resistance to glutaraldehyde, and it has been found that glutaraldehyde can cause asthma and other health hazards, hence ortho-phthalaldehyde is replacing glutaraldehyde.\n\nOxidizing agents act by oxidizing the cell membrane of microorganisms, which results in a loss of structure and leads to cell lysis and death. A large number of disinfectants operate in this way. Chlorine and oxygen are strong oxidizers, so their compounds figure heavily here.\n\n\nPeroxycarboxylic acids and inorganic peroxo acids are strong oxidants and extremely effective disinfectants.\n\n\nPhenolics are active ingredients in some household disinfectants. They are also found in some mouthwashes and in disinfectant soap and handwashes. Phenols are toxic to cats and newborn humans\n\n\nQuaternary ammonium compounds (\"quats\"), such as benzalkonium chloride, are a large group of related compounds. Some concentrated formulations have been shown to be effective low-level disinfectants. Quaternary Ammonia at or above 200ppm plus Alcohol solutions exhibit efficacy against difficult to kill non-enveloped viruses such as norovirus, rotavirus, or polio virus. Newer synergous, low-alcohol formulations are highly effective broad-spectrum disinfectants with quick contact times (3–5 minutes) against bacteria, enveloped viruses, pathogenic fungi, and mycobacteria. Quats are biocides that also kill algae and are used as an additive in large-scale industrial water systems to minimize undesired biological growth.\n\nThis group comprises aqueous solution of chlorine, hypochlorite, or hypochlorous acid. Occasionally, chlorine-releasing compounds and their salts are included in this group. Frequently, a concentration of < 1 ppm of available chlorine is sufficient to kill bacteria and viruses, spores and mycobacteria requiring higher concentrations.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe biguanide polymer polyaminopropyl biguanide is specifically bactericidal at very low concentrations (10 mg/l). It has a unique method of action: The polymer strands are incorporated into the bacterial cell wall, which disrupts the membrane and reduces its permeability, which has a lethal effect to bacteria. It is also known to bind to bacterial DNA, alter its transcription, and cause lethal DNA damage. It has very low toxicity to higher organisms such as human cells, which have more complex and protective membranes.\n\nCommon sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO) has antifungal properties, and some antiviral and antibacterial properties, though those are too weak to be effective at a home environment.\n\nLactic acid is a registered disinfectant. Due to its natural and environmental profile, it has gained importance in the market.\n\nUltraviolet germicidal irradiation is the use of high-intensity shortwave ultraviolet light for disinfecting smooth surfaces such as dental tools, but not porous materials that are opaque to the light such as wood or foam. Ultraviolet light is also used for municipal water treatment. Ultraviolet light fixtures are often present in microbiology labs, and are activated only when there are no occupants in a room (e.g., at night).\n\nHeat treatment can be used for disinfection and sterilization.\n\nThe phrase \"sunlight is the best disinfectant\" was popularized in 1913 by United States Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis and later advocates of government transparency. While sunlight's ultraviolet rays can act as a disinfectant, the Earth's ozone layer blocks the rays' most effective wavelengths. Ultraviolet light-emitting machines, such as those used to disinfect some hospital rooms, make for better disinfectants than sunlight.\n\nOne way to compare disinfectants is to compare how well they do against a known disinfectant and rate them accordingly. Phenol is the standard, and the corresponding rating system is called the \"Phenol coefficient\". The disinfectant to be tested is compared with phenol on a standard microbe (usually \"Salmonella typhi\" or \"Staphylococcus aureus\"). Disinfectants that are more effective than phenol have a coefficient > 1. Those that are less effective have a coefficient < 1.\n\nThe standard European approach for disinfectant validation consists of a basic suspension test, a quantitative suspension test (with low and high levels of organic material added to act as ‘interfering substances’) and a two part simulated-use surface test.\n\nA less specific measurement of effectiveness is the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) classification into either \"high\", \"intermediate\" or \"low\" levels of disinfection. \"High-level disinfection kills all organisms, except high levels of bacterial spores\" and is done with a chemical germicide marketed as a sterilant by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). \"Intermediate-level disinfection kills mycobacteria, most viruses, and bacteria with a chemical germicide registered as a 'tuberculocide' by the Environmental Protection Agency. Low-level disinfection kills some viruses and bacteria with a chemical germicide registered as a hospital disinfectant by the EPA.\"\n\nAn alternative assessment is to measure the Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of disinfectants against selected (and representative) microbial species, such as through the use of microbroth dilution testing.\n\nThe most cost-effective home disinfectant is chlorine bleach (typically a >10% solution of sodium hypochlorite), which is effective against most common pathogens, including disinfectant-resistant organisms such as tuberculosis (mycobacterium tuberculosis), hepatitis B and C, fungi, and antibiotic-resistant strains of staphylococcus and enterococcus. It has disinfectant action against some parasitic organisms.\n\nThe benefits of chlorine bleach include its inexpensive and fast acting nature. However it is harmful to mucous membranes and skin upon contact, has a strong odour; is not effective against \"Giardia lamblia\" and \"Cryptosporidium\"; and combination with other cleaning products such as ammonia and vinegar can generate noxious gases like chlorine. The best practice is not to add anything to household bleach except water. As with most disinfectants, the area requiring disinfection should be cleaned before the application of the chlorine bleach, as the presence of organic materials may inactivate chlorine bleach.\n\nThe use of some antimicrobials such as triclosan, is controversial because it may lead to antimicrobial resistance. The use of chlorine bleach and alcohol disinfectants does not cause antimicrobial resistance as it denatures the protein of the microbe upon contact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2269688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269688", "title": "Dr. Bonham's Case", "text": "Dr. Bonham's Case\n\nThomas Bonham v College of Physicians, commonly known as Dr. Bonham's Case or simply Bonham's Case, was a case decided in 1610 by the Court of Common Pleas in England, under Sir Edward Coke, the court's Chief Justice, who explained why he thought that \"in many cases, the common law will control Acts of Parliament\". Coke's meaning has been disputed over the years. According to one interpretation, Coke intended the kind of judicial review that would later develop in the United States, but other scholars believe that Coke meant only to construe a statute, not to challenge parliamentary sovereignty. If Coke intended the former, he may have later changed his view. The statement by Coke is sometimes considered to be an \"obiter dictum\" (a statement made 'by the way'), rather than part of the \"ratio decidendi\" (rationale for the decision) of the case. \n\nWhatever Coke's meaning, after an initial period during which his decision enjoyed some support but no statutes were declared void, \"Bonham's Case\" was thrown aside, in favour of the growing doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty. In one of the most prominent early treatises supporting the doctrine, William Blackstone wrote that Parliament is the sovereign lawmaker, preventing the common law courts from throwing aside or reviewing statutes in the fashion that Coke had suggested. Parliamentary sovereignty is now the accepted judicial doctrine in the legal system of England and Wales.\n\n\"Bonham's Case\" was met with mixed reactions at the time, with King James I and his Lord Chancellor, Lord Ellesmere, both deeply unhappy with it. One of the reasons for Coke's dismissal from the Common Pleas in 1613 was suggested to be the case.\n\nAcademics in the 19th and the 20th centuries have been scarcely more favourable and called it \"a foolish doctrine alleged to have been laid down extra-judicially\" and simply an \"abortion\".\n\nIn the United States, Coke's decision met with a better reaction. During the legal and public campaigns against the writs of assistance and the 1765 Stamp Act, \"Bonham's Case\" was used as a justification for nullifying the legislation, but by 1772, Blackstone's views had gained acceptance.\n\nThe 1803 case \"Marbury v. Madison\", which in 1803 formed the basis for the exercise of judicial review in the United States, under Article III of the US Constitution, used the words \"void\" and \"repugnant\", but the usage of \"Marbury\" was somewhat different from that of Coke.\n\nAcademics have argued that the case forms the basis of judicial review in the United States; other academics disagree, one scholar calling that \"one of the most enduring myths of American constitutional law and theory, to say nothing of history\".\n\nThe College of Physicians (renamed in 1674 to the Royal College of Physicians) was an elite organisation. Created by royal charter in 1518, it was founded by six English academic doctors trained in English universities. It admitted only British men who had trained at a university and passed a three-part Latin exam in medical theory. Only 24 Fellows were allowed, and if an entrant came at a time when all 24 Fellowships were full, he would instead become a Candidate, the most senior Candidate being admitted to the first vacant Fellowship. An Act of Parliament confirming the royal charter also gave the college the ability to act as a court to judge other practitioners and to punish those who were acting badly or practising without a licence. A second Act, the College of Physicians Act 1553, amended the charter and gave the college the right to imprison indefinitely those judged. That \"flew in the face of the common law assumption that to practice medicine one needed only the consent of the patient\". Still, on 8 April 1602, John Popham, the Chief Justice, upheld the college's authority to imprison and fine: \"That no man, though never so learned a Phisition, or doctor may Practise in London, or within seaven myles, without the Colledge Lycense... That a free man of London, may lawfully be imprysoned by the Colledge\".\n\nThomas Bonham had been admitted to St John's College, Cambridge, in 1581. Earning a bachelor's degree in 1584, he completed a master's by 1588 and studied for a medical doctorate at Cambridge, which was later granted by the University of Oxford. By 1602, he had completed his studies and moved to London, where he practised medicine and associated himself with the Barber-Surgeons' Company, campaigning for it to be allowed to authorise medical practitioners in a similar way to the College of Physicians. Apparently giving up after a failed petition to Parliament in 1605, Bonham petitioned to join the college on 6 December 1605 but was rejected and told to return after further study. Returning on 14 April 1606, he was again told he could not join and was fined £5 () and threatened with imprisonment for continuing to practise. Bonham still kept working as a doctor; on 3 October it was announced he was to be arrested and fined £10. Bonham again appeared before the college, now with a lawyer, on 7 November. He announced that he would continue to practise without seeking the college's permission, which he claimed had no power over graduates of Oxford or Cambridge. He was then imprisoned (some say at Fleet Prison, and some say at Newgate Prison) for contempt, but his lawyer had a writ of \"habeas corpus\", issued by the Court of Common Pleas, which freed him on 13 November.\n\nBonham's successful writ worried the college, whose previous success with Popham and \"keen cultivation\" of same as well as Lord Ellesmere and other Crown officials had left them assured that their jurisdiction would be maintained. As such, the college appealed directly to the Crown officers, and on 1 May 1607, it met with a committee of judges at Ellesmere's house. The committee were Ellesmere, Popham, Thomas Fleming, two judges from the Court of Common Pleas and two from the Court of King's Bench. The judges all agreed that \"for not well doeing useing or practicing the facultie or arte of physike or for disobedience or contempte donne and committed against anye ordynaunce made by the colledge... they may committ the offenders without bayle or mayneprise\". That success spurred the college to move against Bonham yet again, now by suing him in the King's Bench for £60 () for maintaining an illicit practice. In a counterattack, Bonham brought a suit in the Common Pleas, requesting £100 (£) damages, and alleging that they had trespassed against his person and wrongfully imprisoned him \"against the law and custom of this kingdom of England\".\n\nThe case was heard in the Court of Common Pleas by Warburton J, Daniel J, Foster J, Walmisley J and the Chief Justice Sir Edward Coke, with a decision finally reached in the winter of 1610. The college's lawyers had argued that the two Acts of Parliament and the royal charter \"intends, that none shall practise here but those who are most learned and expert, more than ordinary\". As such, the college was free to punish for both practising without a licence and for malpractice, with the 1553 Act giving them the authority to imprison those they judged. Bonham's lawyers replied by arguing that the Acts and charter were intended to prevent malpractice, not practising without a licence.\n\nMoreover, Bonham's study \"[in the texts at university] is practise [sic]\", and to become a doctor means to be considered capable of teaching: \"when a man brings with him the ensign of doctrine, there is no reason that he should be examined again, for then if thou will not allow of him, he shall not be allowed, though he is a learned and grave man, and it is not the intent of the King to make a monopoly of this practise\". As such, the Act \"doth not inhibit a doctor to practice [sic], but [only] punisheth him for ill using, exercising, and making [of physic]\". In other words, it covered malpractice, not illicit practice.\n\nWalmisley and Foster sided with the college, with Walmisley delivering the joint opinion. He said that since the statute clearly said \"no person\" could practise without the college's licence, only one verdict was acceptable, as the college had a valid licensing authority. The royal charter was to be interpreted as granting the college a duty on behalf of the King:\n\nAs such, in Walmisley's mind, the King had a duty to protect the health of his subjects and had delegated it to the college. In addition, Bonham had given \"an absurd and contemptuous answer\" when he claimed that he would not submit to the college, and \"it should be a vain law if it did not provide punishment for them that offend against that\". The King had delegated part of his prerogative powers to the college, for the purposes of punishment and imprisonment, and as such, it had the right to sit as a court.\n\nCoke delivered the majority opinion in favour of Bonham, with Daniel and Warburton agreeing. He undertook a closer reading of the college's charter and associated Acts and divided the relevant passage into two clauses. One gave the power to fine practitioners without licences. The latter specified that they could imprison a practitioner for \"not well doing, using or practicing physic\". He argued that they constituted separate powers and issues; the former dealt with authorisation to punish for illicit practise, and the other covered punishment for malpractice. Simply practising without a licence did not constitute malpractice. As such, the college did not have the power to imprison Bonham, who was accused of practising without a licence, not of practising dangerously.\n\nCoke also went further by arguing against the validity of the charter and its associated Acts, which gave the college the right to act as both as a judge and as a party to a case, which \"provided for an absurdity\":\n\nBecause of that and four other reasons given by Coke, the college was to stop trying to supervise medical practice, arbitrating and acting as a court. In support of his judgment, Coke cited not only \"Tregor's Case\" but also two anonymous cases with the academic names of \"Cessavit\" 42 and \"Annuitie\" 11, respectively.\n\nThe decision in \"Bonham's Case\" has been described by John Campbell (Lord Chief Justice and Lord Chancellor in the 19th century) as \"a foolish doctrine alleged to have been laid down extra-judicially\". Philip Allott, in the \"Cambridge Law Journal\", simply called it an \"abortion\". Coke was later dismissed from his judicial posts, and Ellesmere immediately began making veiled criticisms, maintaining that it was unconscionable to allow the judges power to throw aside Acts of Parliament if they were repugnant or contrary to reason; however, he spoke \"not of impossibilities or direct repugnancies\". It was acceptable to overturn an Act if it was clearly and obviously repugnant but not otherwise.\n\nCoke has come under criticism for his examples to justify his decision. The first case that he gave, \"Tregor's Case\", was seriously misquoted. Coke stated, \"Herle said some statutes are made against law and right, which those who made them perceiving, would not put into execution\". In fact, there is no reference to \"law and right\" is found in the original text; Herle wrote that \"there are some statutes made which he himself who made them does not will to put into execution\", meaning only that some statutes are poorly drafted, and if they cannot be interpreted to work, Parliament would accept the courts not applying them. Theodore Plucknett wrote, \"Whoever reads the whole of Herle's remarks can see that he did not regard the statute then under discussion as falling within this category; on the contrary, he suggested a perfectly obvious and straightforward interpretation of it... Coke's first authority is far from convincing\".\n\nHis second authority, \"Cessavit\" 42, \"goes much further to support his thesis\" and concerns a situation in which William Bereford refused to apply an Act of Parliament because it would undermine several common law principles. However, Plucknett notes the distinction that in \"Cessavit\" 42, \"the statute is not held void; it is just ignored. To this fact Coke has really added an explanation and a theory of his own\".\n\nHis third example, \"Annuitie\" 11, was based on the Statute of Carlisle, which required all religious orders to have seals, placed in the custody of the prior and four of the \"worthiest brethren\" so that the Abbot could not use it without their knowledge. Any decisions made without the seal kept in that fashion were invalid. That clashed with church law and was incredibly difficult for small religious orders; as such, Sir Anthony Fitzherbert said that the statute was void, as it was \"impertinent\" or \"impossible\". However, Plucknett again casts doubt on the example's validity by stating that it \"would have looked strong... [but] is, in fact, of doubtful import\".\n\n\"Bonham's Case\" was deeply unpopular with the Crown; Coke was removed from the Common Pleas and sent to the King's Bench, in theory a more senior office but in practice a less rewarding one in 1613. In June 1616, he was suspended from office and ordered to \"correct\" his case reports. In October 1617, James I demanded an explanation from Coke of the reasoning behind \"Bonham's Case\". Coke claimed that \"the words of my report do not import any new opinion, but only a relation of such authorities of law, as had been adjudged and resolved in former times, and were cited in the argument of Bonham's case\". He refused to admit to any flaws with his writings, and his only corrections were minor errors and rearrangements of the language. If he meant the case as an endorsement of judicial review instead of Parliamentary sovereignty, withdrawal of that endorsement has been inferred from his later writings.\n\nThe decision has been variously interpreted. It can be construed as marking the supremacy of the common law over Parliament by judicial review or only as being another form of statutory interpretation. Noah Feldman suggested that the dispute over the two meanings has its origins in 1930s America, where frustration over judicial review of elements of the New Deal spilled into the academic world. James Kent, in his \"Commentaries on American Law\", argued that \"Bonham's Case\" and similar cases meant only that statutes should be given a \"reasonable construction\". Charles Gray, in the \"Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society\", argues that Coke, as a judge, never intended to advocate the judicial review of statutes. Bernard Bailyn wrote that \"Coke had not meant... 'that there were superior principles of right and justice which Acts of Parliament might not contravene'\" and also that by \"saying that courts might 'void' a legislative provision that violated the constitution he meant only that the courts were to construe statutes so as to bring them into conformity with recognized legal principles\".\n\nWilliam Searle Holdsworth agreed that it would be a mistake to view isolated statements by Coke in \"Bonham’s Case\" as endorsing limitations upon Parliament; Coke himself elsewhere acknowledged the power of Parliament as being \"so transcendent and absolute that it cannot be confined either for causes or persons within any bounds\".\n\nRaoul Berger, in the \"University of Pennsylvania Law Review\", disagrees; the words of the statute were clear, and the only application that it could have was unjust. Statutory interpretation allows for the ignoring of unjust extraneous meanings, but what Coke did was nullify the statute as a whole, along with its main intention. John V. Orth, writing in the \"Constitutional Commentary\", concurs: \"If that were so, why did they not say so? Is it likely that the royal judges, confronting a case involving a statute that had necessarily passed both houses of parliament and received the royal assent, would lightly use the word 'void'?\"\n\nResearch by Samuel Thomas and Sir John Baker has led to a reassessment. During the early 17th century, non-common law courts were claiming an \"[i]mperial, almost legislative discretion over statutory interpretation, free from any supervisory jurisdiction of the common law courts\". Coke's decision can, therefore, be seen as him reminding such courts that their interpretations were subject to the law, not to individual discretion.\n\nDuring Coke's lifetime, he was judicially dominant, and his ideas were upheld by his successor as Chief Justice, Sir Henry Hobart, in \"Day v Savadge\" and \"Lord Sheffield v Ratcliffe\". After Coke's death, however, his jurisprudence \"naturally suffered an eclipse\", and its next appearance is in \"Godden v Hales\", in 1686, where the doctrine was twisted to argue that the Crown had the prerogative to dismiss government laws. Plucknett notes that \"the Revolution of 1688 marks the abandonment of the doctrine of \"Bonham's Case\"\", but in 1701, the common law judges cited Coke's decision with approval in \"City of London v Wood\", with John Holt concluding that Coke's statement is \"a very reasonable and true saying\". His position was to treat statutes in the same way as other documents for the purpose of judicial review and was followed for decades. Outside the judiciary, John Lilburne used \"Bonham's Case\" in his book \"The Legall Fundamentall Liberties of the People of England\" and then in his 1649 treason trial to justify his attack on the Rump Parliament.\n\nWith the growth of the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty, Coke's theory gradually died out; William Blackstone, in the first edition of his \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\", wrote that \"if the parliament will positively enact a thing to be done which is unreasonable, I know of no power that can control it: and the examples alleged in support of this sense of the rule do none of them prove, that where the main object of a statute is unreasonable the judges are at liberty to reject it; for that were to set the judicial power above that of the legislature, which would be subversive of all government\". Parliamentary sovereignty is now upheld by the English judiciary as a \"central principle of British constitutionalism\" despite with some issues by membership in the European Union. The case's modern irrelevance is such that Philip Hamburger wrote in 2008, \"Bonham's Case scarcely deserves mention in a history of judicial duty, except for reasons that are now largely forgotten\".\n\nIn the Thirteen Colonies, there were instances of Coke's statement being interpreted to mean that the common law was superior to statute. For example, drawing on Coke's statement, James Otis, Jr., declared during the struggle over writs of assistance courts had to ignore Acts of Parliament \"against the constitution and against natural equity\", which had a significant impact on John Adams. When the 1765 Stamp Act was declared invalid by the Massachusetts Assembly, the rationale was that it was \"against Magna Charta and the natural rights of Englishmen, and therefore, according to the Lord Coke, null and void\". By 1772, Otis and others had reversed course by adopting Blackstone's position that judges cannot challenge Acts of Parliament. Even before then, \"Dr. Bonham's Case\" had rarely been used as a rallying cry in America; judicial review in America grew primarily from other political and intellectual sources.\n\nIn \"Marbury v. Madison\" (1803), the case that forms the basis for the exercise of judicial review in America, Chief Justice John Marshall stated that \"the particular phraseology of the Constitution of the United States confirms and strengthens the principle, supposed to be essential to all written constitutions, that a law repugnant to the constitution is void, and that courts, as well as other departments, are bound by that instrument\". Marshall specifically used the words \"void\" and \"repugnant\", which has been characterised as a deliberate reference to Coke, but Marshall's principle involved repugnancy to the written Constitution. instead of repugnancy to reason. In \"Hurtado v. California\" (1884), the US Supreme Court discussed \"Bonham's Case\" specifically by saying that it had not affected the omnipotence of parliament over the common law.\n\nEdward Samuel Corwin, writing in the \"Harvard Law Review\", praised the idea of a fundamental higher law of reason enforceable by judges and so endorsed \"the ratification which Coke's doctrine received in American constitutional law and theory\". Gary McDowell, writing in \"The Review of Politics\", called the case's influence \"one of the most enduring myths of American constitutional law and theory, to say nothing of history\". McDowell pointed out that it was never discussed during the 1786 Constitutional Convention. During the ratification conventions, despite Coke being mentioned, it was not during debates over the striking down of unconstitutional statutes. Also, other writings of Coke were brought up but never \"Bonham's Case\" itself.\nAn additional point of view is that the US Supreme Court has come \"full circle to the dictum in Bonham's Case\" by using the Due Process Clause to strike down what the Court deems \"unreasonable\" legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37650311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37650311", "title": "Dutch hypothesis", "text": "Dutch hypothesis\n\nThe Dutch hypothesis provides one of several biologically plausible explanations for the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a progressive disease known to be aetiologically linked to environmental insults such as tobacco smoke.\n\nThe Dutch hypothesis was originally proposed by Dick Orie and his team in 1961 at the University of Groningen. According to Orie, \"Bronchitis and Asthma may be found in one patient at the same age but as a rule there is a fluent development from bronchitis in youth to a more asthmatic picture in adults, which in turn develops into bronchitis of elderly patients.\" This supposition was later named the Dutch hypothesis by a colleague, Professor C. Fletcher. Specifically, clinical characteristics such as allergy and bronchial hyperresponsiveness that are commonly observed in individuals afflicted with asthma were viewed as likely determinants of the life-threatening disease, COPD (in the Netherlands, the term chronic non-specific lung disease was adopted as an umbrella term for asthma and COPD).</ref>\n\nMore recent molecular biology research suggests that the pathogenesis of asthma and COPD may share overlapping pathways involving innate biological susceptibility, coupled with environmental factors which can trigger the different diseases. Genetic association studies that have uncovered the same polymorphisms in people with asthma and COPD provide support for the notion that the two conditions share some biological characteristics; implicated genes include \"ADAM33\", \"CCL5\" and \"IL17F\".\n\nAlthough clinically debated, the Dutch hypothesis remains one of four main plausible explanations which could help explain the complex pathogenesis of COPD, others being the protease-antiprotease hypothesis (involving alpha 1-antitrypsin overexpression and consequent alpha-1 proteinase deficiency), the British hypothesis (regarding a putative aetiological role of acute bronchial infections), and the autoimmunity hypothesis.\n"}
{"id": "13705033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13705033", "title": "Edmonston Pumping Plant", "text": "Edmonston Pumping Plant\n\nEdmonston Pumping Plant is a pumping station near the south end of the California Aqueduct, which is the principal feature of the California State Water Project. It lifts water 1,926 feet (600 m) to cross the Tehachapi Mountains where it splits into the west and east branches of the California Aqueduct serving Southern California. It is the most powerful water lifting system in the world, not considering pumped-storage hydroelectricity stations.\n\nThere are 14 4-stage 80,000-horsepower centrifugal pumps that push the water up to the top of the mountain. Each motor-pump unit stands 65-feet high and weighs 420 tons. The pumps themselves extend downward six floors. Each unit discharges water into a manifold that connects to the main discharge lines. The two main discharge lines stairstep up the mountain in an 8400-foot long tunnel. They are 12.5 feet in diameter for the first half and 14-feet in diameter for the last half. They each contain 8.5 million gallons of water at all times. At full capacity, the pumps can fling nearly 2 million gallons per minute up over the Tehachapis. At the top of mountain, there’s a 68-feet high, 50-foot diameter surge tank. This prevents tunnel damage when the valves to the pumps are suddenly open or closed. Near the top of the lift there are valves which can close the discharge lines to prevent backflow into the pumping plant below in event of a rupture. The station consumes up to 787 MW of electricity, delivered through a dedicated 230kV transmission line from the nearby Southern California Edison Pastoria substation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24204300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24204300", "title": "Esophageal pH monitoring", "text": "Esophageal pH monitoring\n\nEsophageal pH monitoring is the current gold standard for diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). It provides direct physiologic measurement of acid in the esophagus and is the most objective method to document reflux disease, assess the severity of the disease and monitor the response of the disease to medical or surgical treatment. It can also be used in diagnosing laryngopharyngeal reflux.\n\nThe importance of refluxed gastric contents in the pathogenesis of GERD was emphasized by Winkelstein who introduced the term \"peptic esophagitis\" and by Bernstein and Baker who reported the symptom of heartburn following instillation of hydrochloric acid in the distal esophagus. Formal measurement of acid in the esophagus was first described in 1960 by Tuttle. He used a glass pH probe to map the gastroesophageal pH gradient, and demonstrated a sharp gradient in normal subjects and a gradual sloping gradient in patients with esophagitis. Four years later, Miller used an indwelling esophageal pH electrode to continuously measure esophageal and gastric pH for a period up to 12 hours. This technique required that the patient keep their hands immersed in saline to serve as a reference. Prolonged monitoring became feasible in 1974 when Johnson and DeMeester developed a dependable external reference electrode. Using this technique to monitor esophageal acid exposure patients for periods up to 24 hours, DeMeester and Johnson were able to identify the most important parameters of esophageal acid exposure, and they developed a composite pH score to quantify gastroesophageal reflux. The initial 24-hour pH studies required hospitalization until the introduction of microcircuits in the 1980s that allowed portable esophageal pH monitoring in an outpatient setting.\n\nGastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common disease in western countries. In the United States, 7% of the population experiences heartburn daily and 44% at least once a month. Heartburn occurs when esophageal mucosa is exposed to the acidic gastric content, but the complaint of heartburn is not always a reliable guide to the presence of acid reflux in the esophagus. Further, only half of the patients with increased esophageal acid exposure will have esophagitis. Therefore, the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) on the basis of symptoms or endoscopic findings is problematic.\n\nAlthough there remains no gold standard for the diagnosis of GERD, ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring can provide data to guide further evaluation and treatment of patients with GERD-associated symptoms. In the past, an indwelling nasoesophageal catheter was the only way to measure esophageal acid exposure. Because this method is associated with nasal and pharyngeal discomfort and rhinorrhea, patients may have limited their activity and become more sedentary during the monitored period. This may have resulted in less acid reflux and a false negative test. A catheter-free radio telemetric system allows a longer period of monitoring and may be better tolerated.\n\nEsophageal pH monitoring is currently performed using one of the following three techniques:\n\nThe duration of the test is 24 hours in the first and second techniques and 48 hours for the Bravo capsule or more (96 hours) for OMOM capsule.\n\nIn assessment of distal esophageal pH, the sensor is placed 5 cm above upper border of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) determined by esophageal manometry. To measure proximal esophageal acid exposure the second sensor is placed 1-5 below the lower border of the upper esophageal sphincter (UES). The Bravo pH capsule is placed either transnasally based on manometric measurements, or following endoscopy. In transnasal placement the capsule is placed 5 cm above upper border of the LES, and in endoscopic placement 6 cm above gastroesophageal junction. The same applies to OMOM pH monitoring capsule.\n\nA reflux episode is defined as esophageal pH drop below four. Esophageal pH monitoring is performed for 24 or 48 hours and at the end of recording, a patient's tracing is analyzed and the results are expressed using six standard components. Of these 6 parameters a pH score called Composite pH Score or DeMeester Score has been calculated, which is a global measure of esophageal acid exposure. A Demeester score > 14.72 indicates reflux.\n\nThe widespread prescription of proton pump inhibitors (PPI) by primary care physicians has resulted in a change in pattern of GERD in patients who use these medications. Quite often gastroenterologist and foregut surgeons receive consultations to assess patients with persistent reflux symptoms despite the fact that patients is on acid suppression medications. This is due to the fact that symptoms of these patients are the results of weak acid or non-acid reflux.\nIn 1991 Silny was the first investigator who described Multichannel Intraluminal Impedance (MII), a technique which detects intraesophageal bolus transport. This method is based on measuring the resistance to alternating current (i.e., impedance) of the content of the esophageal lumen. MII- pH monitoring was then developed by several clinical investigators. The clinical application of this technique is mainly in GERD patients who have persistent symptoms despite medical therapy.\n\nRetrograde flow of gastric contents to the upper aerodigestive tract causes a variety of symptoms such as cough, asthma and hoarseness. These respiratory manifestations of the reflux disease are commonly called laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) or extraesophegeal reflux disease (EERD). Distal esophageal pH monitoring has been used as an objective test to establish reflux as the cause of the atypical reflux symptoms but, its role in causally associating patients’ symptoms to GERD is controversial. In an effort to improve diagnostic accuracy of testing, a catheter with two pH sensors has been used to measure the degree of esophageal acid exposure in both distal and proximal esophagus. The ideal location for pH measurement to confirm the diagnosis of the laryngopharyngeal reflux is the pharynx and new studies have focused on the development of a new pH sensor which can function in the challenging environment of the oropharynx.\n\n"}
{"id": "47041382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47041382", "title": "Good Food Awards", "text": "Good Food Awards\n\nThe Good Food Awards or GFAs is an annual award competition for outstanding American craft food producers and the farmers who provide their ingredients. Created by the Good Food Foundation (formerly Seedling Projects), the Good Food Awards celebrate the kind of food we all want to eat: tasty, authentic and responsibly produced. An annual Awards Ceremony and Marketplace is held to honor the Good Food Award recipients who push their industries towards craftsmanship and sustainability while enhancing our agricultural landscape and building strong communities. The Good Food Awards have been particularly notable in the coffee industry. As of the 2018 Good Food Awards, Patric Chocolate has won twenty-one awards, more than any other entrant.\n\nThe criteria for the Good Food Awards varies by industry, however basic rules says that entries must be made without GM ingredients, using good animal husbandry and \"without the use of artificial ingredients, hormones, synthetic pesticides, herbicides, fertilizer \" and, most importantly, crafted in the USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "16541330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541330", "title": "Health care in the Philippines", "text": "Health care in the Philippines\n\nHealth care in the Philippines varies with private, public and barangay health centers (many in rural municipalities). Most of the national burden of health care is taken up by private health providers.\n\nThe Ministry of Health, or the Department of Health, provides national health policies and standards. The provision of health services is overseen by local government units and private sector agencies, both of which are responsible for providing health services to communities. Health services are brought by barangay health units, rural health units, city health offices, municipal or district hospitals, provincial and regional hospitals, and medical centers.\n\nIn 2000 the Philippines had about 95,000 physicians, or about 1 per 800 people. In 2001 there were about 1,700 hospitals, of which about 40 percent were government run and 60 percent private, with a total of about 85,000 beds, or about one bed per 900 people. The leading causes of morbidity as of 2002 were diarrhea, bronchitis, pneumonia, influenza, hypertension, tuberculosis, heart disease, malaria, chickenpox, and measles. Cardiovascular diseases account for more than 25 percent of all deaths. According to official estimates, 1,965 cases of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were reported in 2003, of which 636 had developed acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Other estimates state that there may have been as many as 9,400 people living with HIV/AIDS in 2001.\n\nExpenditures on health in 2002 totaled about US$2.2 billion, or about 2.9 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Government expenditures on health accounted for only about 15 percent of total health expenditures, 30 percent of per capita health expenditures, and about 0.9 percent of all government spending. Per capita health expenditures in 2002 totaled US$28, of which government spending accounted for $8. Both total and per capita expenditures on health have continued to decline since at least 1990, leading to a decrease in the share of GDP attributable to health expenditures. The main cause of this decline has been the high population growth rate. The government share of total spending on health also has declined steadily, and with more people, there has been less to spend per person from both the government and private sectors.\n\nThe 1991 Republic Act No 1760, or the Local Government Code, gave local health boards the authority over decisions about the delivery of health services and financial management. In 1995, the National Health Insurance Act led to the implementation of universal health coverage as it was among the first compulsory health insurance systems in developing countries. It established the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation as a form of national health insurance.\n\nLarge areas of the Philippines do not have daily access to any pharmaceuticals due to high drug prices. Medicines are supplies account for the largest share of household medical expenses, at 49%, compared to 33% share of bills for hospital stay and 10% for consultation and treatment.\n\nThe proposed National Health Budget for 2010 is P28 billion, about US$597 million, or about 310 pesos (US$7) per person in the Philippines. Generic medicines in the Philippines are highly competitive versus branded medicines due to the high out of pocket expenses in the Philippines in terms of value even with the 81% coverage of the country's healthcare system.\n\nDoctors, nurses, nursing aides, midwives, caregivers, and health administrators can all train for their profession in the Philippines. However, those who migrate to different countries often encounter difficulty practicing outside the Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "28695746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28695746", "title": "Health effects of pesticides", "text": "Health effects of pesticides\n\nHealth effects of pesticides may be acute or delayed in those who are exposed. A 2007 systematic review found that \"most studies on non-Hodgkin lymphoma and leukemia showed positive associations with pesticide exposure\" and thus concluded that cosmetic use of pesticides should be decreased. Strong evidence also exists for other negative outcomes from pesticide exposure including neurological problems, birth defects, fetal death, and neurodevelopmental disorder.\n\nAccording to The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (2001), 9 of the 12 most dangerous and persistent chemicals were pesticides, so many have now been withdrawn from use.\n\nAcute health problems may occur in workers that handle pesticides, such as abdominal pain, dizziness, headaches, nausea, vomiting, as well as skin and eye problems. In China, an estimated half million people are poisoned by pesticides each year, 500 of whom die. Pyrethrins, insecticides commonly used in common bug killers, can cause a potentially deadly condition if breathed in.\n\nMany studies have examined the effects of pesticide exposure on the risk of cancer. Associations have been found with: leukemia, lymphoma, brain, kidney, breast, prostate, pancreas, liver, lung, and skin cancers. This increased risk occurs with both residential and occupational exposures. Increased rates of cancer have been found among farm workers who apply these chemicals. A mother's occupational exposure to pesticides during pregnancy is associated with an increases in her child's risk of leukemia, Wilms' tumor, and brain cancer. Exposure to insecticides within the home and herbicides outside is associated with blood cancers in children.\n\nEvidence links pesticide exposure to worsened neurological outcomes.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency finished a 10-year review of the organophosphate pesticides following the 1996 Food Quality Protection Act, but did little to account for developmental neurotoxic effects, drawing strong criticism from within the agency and from outside researchers. Comparable studies have not been done with newer pesticides that are replacing organophosphates.\n\nStrong evidence links pesticide exposure to birth defects, fetal death and altered fetal growth. Agent Orange, a 50:50 mixture of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D, has been associated with bad health and genetic effects in Malaya and Vietnam. It was also found that offspring that were at some point exposed to pesticides had a low birth weight and had developmental defects.\n\nA number of pesticides including dibromochlorophane and 2,4-D has been associated with impaired fertility in males.\nPesticide exposure resulted in reduced fertility in males, genetic alterations in sperm, a reduced number of sperm, damage to germinal epithelium and altered hormone function.\n\nSome studies have found increased risks of dermatitis in those exposed.\n\nAdditionally, studies have indicated that pesticide exposure is associated with long-term respiratory problems. Summaries of peer-reviewed research have examined the link between pesticide exposure and neurologic outcomes and cancer, perhaps the two most significant things resulting in organophosphate-exposed workers.\n\nAccording to researchers from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), licensed pesticide applicators who used chlorinated pesticides on more than 100 days in their lifetime were at greater risk of diabetes. One study found that associations between specific pesticides and incident diabetes ranged from a 20 percent to a 200 percent increase in risk. New cases of diabetes were reported by 3.4 percent of those in the lowest pesticide use category compared with 4.6 percent of those in the highest category. Risks were greater when users of specific pesticides were compared with applicators who never applied that chemical.\n\nPeople can be exposed to pesticides by a number of different routes including: occupation, in the home, at school and in their food.\n\nThere are concerns that pesticides used to control pests on food crops are dangerous to people who consume those foods. These concerns are one reason for the organic food movement. Many food crops, including fruits and vegetables, contain pesticide residues after being washed or peeled. Chemicals that are no longer used but that are resistant to breakdown for long periods may remain in soil and water and thus in food.\n\nThe United Nations Codex Alimentarius Commission has recommended international standards for maximum residue limits (MRLs), for individual pesticides in food.\n\nIn the EU, MRLs are set by DG-SANCO.\n\nIn the United States, levels of residues that remain on foods are limited to tolerance levels that are established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and are considered safe. The EPA sets the tolerances based on the toxicity of the pesticide and its breakdown products, the amount and frequency of pesticide application, and how much of the pesticide (i.e., the residue) remains in or on food by the time it is marketed and prepared. Tolerance levels are obtained using scientific risk assessments that pesticide manufacturers are required to produce by conducting toxicological studies, exposure modeling and residue studies before a particular pesticide can be registered, however, the effects are tested for single pesticides, and there is little information on possible synergistic effects of exposure to multiple pesticide traces in the air, food and water.\n\nStrawberries and tomatoes are the two crops with the most intensive use of soil fumigants. They are particularly vulnerable to several type of diseases, insects, mites, and parasitic worms. In 2003, in California alone, 3.7 million pounds (1,700 metric tons) of metham sodium were used on tomatoes. In recent years other farmers have demonstrated that it is possible to produce strawberries and tomatoes without the use of harmful chemicals and in a cost-effective way.\n\nExposure routes other than consuming food that contains residues, in particular pesticide drift, are potentially significant to the general public.\n\nSome pesticides can remain in the environment for prolonged periods of time. For example, most people in the United States still have detectable levels of DDT in their bodies even though it was banned in the US in 1972.\n\nPesticides exposure cannot be studied in placebo controlled trials as this would be unethical. A definitive cause effect relationship therefore cannot be established. Consistent evidence can and has been gathered through other study designs. The precautionary principle is thus frequently used in environmental law such that absolute proof is not required before efforts to decrease exposure to potential toxins are enacted.\n\nThe American Medical Association recommend limiting exposure to pesticides. They came to this conclusion due to the fact that surveillance systems currently in place are inadequate to determine problems related to exposure. The utility of applicator certification and public notification programs are also of unknown value in their ability to prevent adverse outcomes.\n\nThe World Health Organization and the UN Environment Programme estimate that each year, 3 million workers in agriculture in the developing world experience severe poisoning from pesticides, about 18,000 of whom die. According to one study, as many as 25 million workers in developing countries may suffer mild pesticide poisoning yearly. Detectable levels of 50 different pesticides were found in the blood of a representative sample of the U.S. population.\n\nConcerns regarding conflict of interests regarding the research base have been raised. After his death Richard Doll of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund in England was found to have undisclosed ties to industry funding.\n\nA number of pesticides including the neonicotinoids clothianidin, dinotefuran, imidacloprid are toxic to bees. Exposure to pesticides may be one of the contributory factors to colony collapse disorder.\nA study in North Carolina indicated that more than 30 percent of the quail tested were made sick by one aerial insecticide application. Once sick, wild birds may neglect their young, abandon their nests, and become more susceptible to predators or disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "24350662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24350662", "title": "Health in Hungary", "text": "Health in Hungary\n\nIn 2016 Hunbisco produced a critical report on the implementation of the sugar tax which was introduced in Hungary in 2011. It reported that the consumption of products subject to the sugar tax had decreased. They argued that manufacturers now have a smaller budget to explore healthier alternatives to sugar. Innovation and new marketing initiatives have reduced since 2011. The effect of the health tax, in addition to 27% VAT, increases the price of products by as much as 40%, and has led to redundancies. They say that the consumption of other products not subject to the tax but with similar nutritional contents, like popcorn, has not dropped. The advocate abolition of the tax in favour of educational measures.\n\nDespite recent improvements, life expectancy in Hungary is still among the lowest in the European Union. Romani people have a life expectancy up to ten years lower than ethnic Hungarians.\n\n62,979 deaths (49.4% of all) in Hungary were caused by cardiovascular disease in 2013. Number of cardiovascular disease deaths peaked in 1985 with 79,355, declining continuously since the fall of Communism. The second most important cause of death was cancer with 33,274 (26.2% of all), stagnating since the 1990s. Number of accident deaths dropped from 8,760 in 1990 to 3,654 in 2013, number of suicides from 4,911 in 1983 to 2,093 (21.1 per 100,000 people) in 2013 (the lowest data registered since 1956). According to Péter Polt, Chief Prosecutor of Hungary, there were only 133 homicides in 2012, which is the lowest number registered in the last 50 years in Hungary. Homicide rate was 1.3 per 100,000 people, which is among the lowest in the World.\n\nDespite recent improvements, alcoholism is still a major problem in Hungary, inherited from the Socialist era. According to KSH estimations number of alcohol addicts were 1,052,000 (10% of the total population) in 1995, declined to 432,000 (4.3% of the total population) in 2005. Hungarians drank 9.5 litres of pure alcohol per capita in 2012 (40% wine, 35% beer and 24% spirit in 2005), annual alcohol consumption is constantly between 9 and 11.5 litres of pure alcohol since the 1970s.\n\nSmoking also causes significant losses to Hungarian society. 28% of the adult population smoked in 2012, dropped to 19% in 2013 due to strict regulation. Nationwide smoking bans expanded to every indoor public place (inculing pubs), the sale of tobacco is limited to state-controlled (but privately owned) tobacco shops called \"Nemzeti dohánybolt\" (National Tobacco Shop). The number of stores where people can buy tobacco reduced from 40,000–42,000 to 5,300. In 2013 WHO awarded Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in \"accomplishments in the area of tobacco control\".\n\nAccording to the last \"Országos Lakossági Egészségfelmérés\" (\"National Population Health Survey\") held in 2003 the most healthy region is Western Transdanubia and the least is the Southern Great Plain. There are huge differences between the western and eastern parts of Hungary, heart disease, hypertension, stroke and suicide is prevalent in the mostly agricultural and low-income characteristic Great Plain (can be described as the Hungarian Stroke Belt), but infrequent in the high-income and middle class characteristic Western Transdanubia. Central Hungary (region of Budapest) is between east and west by health.\n\nHealthcare in Hungary\n"}
{"id": "49105793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49105793", "title": "Healthcare engineering", "text": "Healthcare engineering\n\nIn its succinct definition, “\"Healthcare Engineering is engineering involved in all aspects of healthcare\"”. The term “engineering” in this definition covers all engineering disciplines such as Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Environmental, Industrial, Information, Materials, Mechanical, Software, and Systems Engineering. Based on the definition of \"healthcare\", a more elaborated definition of Healthcare Engineering is the following:\"“Healthcare Engineering is engineering involved in all aspects of the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and management of illness, as well as the preservation and improvement of physical and mental health and well-being, through the services offered to humans by the medical and allied health professions”\".\n\nAlmost all engineering disciplines (e.g., Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Environmental, Industrial, Information, Materials, Mechanical, Software, and Systems Engineering) have made significant contributions and brought about advances in healthcare. Contributions have also been made by healthcare professionals (e.g., physicians, dentists, nurses, pharmacists, allied health professionals, and health scientists) who are engaged in supporting, improving, and/or advancing healthcare through engineering approaches. Healthcare Engineering is a multi-disciplinary specialty that focuses on advancing healthcare through engineering approaches involving both healthcare and engineering professionals. \nHealthcare Engineering is expected to play a role of growing importance as healthcare continues to be one of the world's largest and fastest-growing industries where engineering is a major factor of advancement through creating, developing, and implementing cutting-edge devices, systems, and procedures attributed to breakthroughs in electronics, information technology, miniaturization, material science, optics, and other fields, to address challenges associated with issues such as the continued rise in healthcare costs, the quality and safety of healthcare, care of the aging population, management of common diseases, the impact of high technology, increasing demands for regulatory compliance, risk management, and reducing litigation risk. As the demand for engineers continues to increase in healthcare, Healthcare Engineering will be recognized as the most important profession where engineers make major contributions directly benefiting human health.\n\nThe American Society of Healthcare Engineering (ASHE), established in the 1960s, was one of the first to publicize the term “Healthcare Engineering”. ASHE, as well as its many local affiliate societies, is devoted to the health care physical environment, including design, building, maintenance, and operation of hospitals and other health care facilities, which represents only one sector of engineers’ activities in healthcare. The term “healthcare engineers” first appeared in the scientific literature in 1989, where the critical role of engineers in the healthcare delivery system was discussed. A number of academic programs have adopted the name “Healthcare Engineering” (e.g., Indiana University, Northwestern University, Purdue University, Texas Tech University, University of Illinois, University of Michigan, University of North Carolina, University of Southern California, University of Toronto ), although the description/definition of “Healthcare Engineering” by these programs varies, as each institution has designed its program based on its own distinctive interest, strength, and focus. The first scholarly journal dedicated to Healthcare Engineering, Journal of Healthcare Engineering, was launched in 2010 by Dr. Ming-Chien Chyu, focusing on engineering involved in all aspects of healthcare delivery processes and systems. In the meantime, a number of companies with various foci have adopted “Healthcare Engineering” in their names.\n\nHealthcare Engineering was first defined in a white paper published in 2015 by Dr. Chyu and 40 co-authors who are active members of and contributors to the Healthcare Engineering community all over the world. The white paper was reviewed by more than 280 reviewers, including members of US National Academy of Engineering, Engineering Deans of the world’s top universities, administrators and faculty members of Healthcare Engineering academic programs, leaders of healthcare/medical and engineering professional societies/associations, leaders of healthcare industry and government, and Healthcare Engineering professionals from all over the world. This white paper documents a clear, rigorous definition of Healthcare Engineering as an academic discipline, an area of research, a field of specialty, and a profession, and is expected to raise the status and visibility of Healthcare Engineering, help students choose Healthcare Engineering-related fields as majors, help engineers and healthcare professionals choose Healthcare Engineering as a profession, define Healthcare Engineering as a specialty area for the research community, funding agencies, and conference/event organizers, help job searching databases properly categorize Healthcare Engineering jobs, help healthcare employers recruit from the right pool of expertise, bring academic administrators’ attention to Healthcare Engineering in considering new program initiations, help governments and institutions of different levels put Healthcare Engineering into perspective for policy making, budgeting, and other purposes, and help publishers and librarians categorize literature related to Healthcare Engineering. Based on this white paper, a global, non-profit professional organization, Healthcare Engineering Alliance Society (HEALS), was founded by Dr. Chyu in 2015, that focuses on improving and advancing all aspects of healthcare through engineering approaches.\n\nThe purpose of Healthcare Engineering is to improve human health and well-being through engineering approaches.\n\nHealthcare Engineering covers the following two major fields: \"I. Engineering for Healthcare Intervention:\" Engineering involved in the development or provision of any treatment, preventive care, or test that a person could take or undergo to improve health or to help with a particular health problem.\"II. Engineering for Healthcare Systems:\" Engineering involved in the complete network of organizations, agencies, facilities, information systems, management systems, financing mechanisms, logistics, and all trained personnel engaged in delivering healthcare within a geographical area.Subjects\n\nThe major subjects of Healthcare Engineering are listed in Table 1. Updated ramifications and lists of topics within individual subjects are available from authoritative sources such as the leading societies/associations of individual subjects and government organizations.\n\nTable 1. Healthcare Engineering subjects \n\nHealthcare Engineering features a synergy among the healthcare/medical sectors of all engineering disciplines and the engineering/technology sectors of the Health Sciences, as depicted in Figure 1.\n\nHealthcare Engineering professionals are mainly (a) engineers from all engineering disciplines such as Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Environmental, Industrial, Information, Materials, Mechanical, Software, and Systems Engineering, and (b) healthcare professionals such as physicians, dentists, nurses, pharmacists, allied health professionals, and health scientists, who are engaged in supporting, improving, and/or advancing any aspect of healthcare through engineering approaches, in accordance with the above definition of Healthcare Engineering. Since some healthcare professionals engaged in Healthcare Engineering may not be considered to be “engineers”, “Healthcare Engineering professional” is a more appropriate term than “Healthcare Engineer”.\n\nHealthcare Engineering professionals generally perform their jobs in/with/for the healthcare industry. Major sectors and subsectors of healthcare industry along with Healthcare Engineering professionals’ contributions are summarized in Table 2.\n\nTable 2. Healthcare industry classification and contributions of Healthcare Engineering \n\nEngineers from almost all engineering disciplines (such as Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Environmental, Industrial, Information, Materials, Mechanical, Software, and Systems Engineering) are always in demand in healthcare. It is a common misconception that only engineers with a background in Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, or related areas may work in healthcare. However, there is a need for courses and certificate type of programs that prepare non-biomedical engineering students and practicing engineers for service in healthcare. On the other hand, healthcare professionals (physicians, dentists, nurses, pharmacists, allied health professionals, etc.) may benefit from training to apply engineering to their practice, problem solving, and advancing healthcare. Due to the rapid advance of technology, continuing education plays a crucial role in ensuring Healthcare Engineering professionals’ continued competence.\n"}
{"id": "51099468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51099468", "title": "Honduran Red Cross", "text": "Honduran Red Cross\n\nThe Honduran Red Cross is a non-profit institution of social and voluntary interest that provides help to at-risk populations and those affected by disasters. It is part of the international organization Red Cross and Half Moon Red Crescent, which seeks to alleviate human suffering according to each particular situation.\n\nThe Honduran Red Cross was developed in 1924 during the second civil war. During the conflict, a group of people organized to tend to those who had been injured at the site of Tegucigalpa by rebels, following the example set by Henry Dunant during the first world war. This group of volunteers, which included Carlos Rivas, Delia Becerra, Emma Bonilla, Ernesto López Alleys, Hernán López Alleys, Isolina Guilbert, Luz Becerra, Marine Stair, Marieta Guilbert, Otilia Idiáquez, Roberto Rivas, Soledad Lozano, among others, became the first to carry the symbol of the Red Cross in Honduras, albeit without a concrete leader. Later, in 1932, Tiburcio Carias Andino created a national aid committee, designating civil engineer Abraham Williams Caldéron as its president. Williams Caldéron, along with Dr. Enrique Douglas Guilbert, an active member of Rotary International, decided to devise the founding of the Red Cross in Honduras. Thus, on 22 August 1934, the first board of directors was elected in a Honduran casino, which was as follows:\n\n\nIn 1937, a group of women organized and sponsored the first group of Honduran aid workers; however, they were not yet defined as the Honduran Red Cross. Focused on their requests to the government to obtain a legal status, they developed activities to benefit the Honduran society. On September 4 of the same year, the president, doctor and general Tiburcio Carias Andino, in a meeting at the Presidential House of Honduras, granted a well deserved legal recognition to the group, organizing a board of directors. Original members included Adolfina Mejía, Berta García de Saenz Rico, Elia Pineda de Fortín, Ernestina de Landa, Enriqueta Girón de Lázarus, Dr. Guillermo Durón, Dr. Hernán López Alleys, lawyer Héctor Pineda Ugarte, Dr. Humberto Díaz Banegas, Isabel Siqueiros de Pinel, Isolina Lozano de Guilbert, Josefina Mejía, lawyer Jorge Fidel Durón, Dr. Juan A. Mejía, Dr. Manuel Cáceres Vijil, Dr. and future president Ramón Villeda Moral, and lawyer Rubén Álvarez Channels.. By means of Decree No. 475 issued on 6 October 1937, the institution was known officially as the \"Honduran Red Cross\", with the intended function of engaging in humanitarian action in the national territory. In 1941, Lázarus Henrietta, serving as president of the Honduran Red Cross, requested the National Congress of Honduras to issue a law establishing income for the organization. It was issued as the \"law of the income of the seal of the Red Cross\", so that the organization would receive finances in order to sustain themselves independently and continue providing social services. The economic funds received by the organization would help the organization to sustain itself independently and continue providing social services. In October 1937, the original group of volunteers from 1924 were recognized for the first time.\n\nIn 1942, the first units were established in San Pedro Sula, Puerto Cortés, Tela, and La Ceiba. These units were authorized to retain 40% of donations collected by donors and benefactors and sending the other 60% to the central committee. In the same year, the Infant Consul was founded, with the goal of providing help and support to Honduran children.\n\nIn 1950, the organization received its first ambulance, a Ford model.\n\nIn 1954, the then president of Honduras, Dr. Juan Manuel Gálvez donated land for the construction of the official headquarters.\n\nIn 1978, the official statutes of the Honduran Red Cross were published.\n\nThe Honduran Red Cross has had a major impact in several Honduran events, such as the third civil war of 1931, the events of 1954, the War of the Football of 1969. Together with ACNUR and Doctors without Borders, they have backed the mobilisation of civilians in the border zones with El Salvador and Nicaragua, as in the natural disasters caused by the Hurricane Fifi-Orlene of 1971 and Hurricane Mitch, which devastated the north zone and central office of the Central American country in 1998.\n\nFormer presidents of the Central Committee of the Honduran Red Cross: \n\nThe body of paramedics, staffed by volunteers, receives a basic course in first aid, basic emergency aid, building rescue, mountains aid, rivers aid, etc.\n\nThey also receive intensive training in infant nursing, in addition to cardiovascular and pulmonary resuscitation, minor surgeries, dealing with infections, and so on.\n\nThe central headquarters of the Honduran Red Cross is in the Concepción neighborhood, 7th street, 1st and 2nd avenue, of Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.\n\nThe expansion of the regional headquarters led to the expansion of the red cross into many major Honduran cities, such as: Comayagua, Danlí, The Ceiba, Choluteca, Santa Bárbara, Juticalpa, San Pedro Sula, Santa Rosa de Copán, and Yuscarán.\n\nRed Cross Youth Honduras is an auxiliary program of Honduran Red Cross founded on 17 June 1964. It is composed of volunteers aged 6 and up, organized as follows: 6 -12 year old are brigaders; 12–30 year old are juvenile; 30-up are advisors.\n\nOffices of the CRJH (\"Cruz Roja Juventud Honduras\") are in in Francisco Morazán, Comayagua, Choluteca, Valley, Olancho, El Paraiso, Cortes, Santa Bárbara, Atlántida, Colón, Intibucá, Yoro and Copán.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216680", "title": "Irresistible impulse", "text": "Irresistible impulse\n\nIn criminal law, irresistible impulse is a defense by excuse, in this case some sort of insanity, in which the defendant argues that they should not be held criminally liable for their actions that broke the law, because they could not control those actions, even if they knew them to be wrong. It was added to the M'Naghten rule as a basis for acquittal in the mid 20th century. \n\nIn 1994, Lorena Bobbitt was found not guilty when her defense argued that an irresistible impulse led her to cut off her husband's penis.\n\nThe \"Penal Code\" of the U.S. state of California states (2002), \"The defense of diminished capacity is hereby abolished ... there shall be no defense of ... diminished responsibility or irresistible impulse...\"\n\nThe \"policeman at the elbow\" test is a test used by some courts to determine whether the defendant was insane when they committed a crime. It is a variant of the M'Naghten Rules that addresses the situation in which the defendant knew that what they were going to do was wrong, but had no ability to restrain themself from doing it. The test asks whether they would have done what they did even if a police officer was standing at their elbow, hence its name.\n\nIn English Law the concept of \"irresistible impulse\" was developed in the 1960 case R v. Byrne. The appellant (described as a violent sexual psychopath) strangled then mutilated a young woman, it was alleged that Byrne suffered from violent and perverted sexual desires which he found impossible to control. Lord Parker C.J. broadened the definition of \"abnormality of mind\" to include those lacking \"the ability to exercise will-power to control acts in accordance with [their] rational judgment\".\n\n\"Irresistible impulse\" can be pleaded only under the defense of diminished responsibility, not under the defense of insanity. Thus it operates only as a partial defence to murder, reducing the charge to manslaughter, and giving the judge discretion as to length of sentence and whether committal would be more appropriate than incarceration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17166443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17166443", "title": "Isles of Scilly", "text": "Isles of Scilly\n\nThe Isles of Scilly (; or \"\") is an archipelago off the southwestern tip of Cornwall. One of the islands, St Agnes, is the most southerly point in both England and the United Kingdom, being over further south than the most southerly point of the British mainland at Lizard Point.\n\nThe population of all the islands at the 2011 census was 2,203. Scilly forms part of the ceremonial county of Cornwall, and some services are combined with those of Cornwall. However, since 1890, the islands have had a separate local authority. Since the passing of the Isles of Scilly Order 1930, this authority has had the status of a county council and today is known as the Council of the Isles of Scilly.\n\nThe adjective \"Scillonian\" is sometimes used for people or things related to the archipelago. The Duchy of Cornwall owns most of the freehold land on the islands. Tourism is a major part of the local economy, along with agriculture—particularly the production of cut flowers.\n\nThe islands may correspond to the Cassiterides (\"Tin Isles\") visited by the Phoenicians and mentioned by the Greeks. However, the archipelago itself does not contain much tin.\n\nIt is likely that until relatively recent times the islands were much larger and perhaps joined together into one island named Ennor. Rising sea levels flooded the central plain around 400–500 AD, forming the current 55 islands and islets, if an island is defined as \"land surrounded by water at high tide and supporting land vegetation\". The word ' is a contraction of the Old Cornish ' (', mutated to '), meaning 'the land' or the 'great island'.\n\nEvidence for the older large island includes:\n\nOffshore, midway between Land's End and the Isles of Scilly, is the supposed location of the mythical lost land of Lyonesse, referred to in Arthurian literature, of which Tristan is said to have been a prince. This may be a folk memory of inundated lands, but this legend is also common among the Brythonic peoples; the legend of Ys is a parallel and cognate legend in Brittany as is that of in Wales.\n\nScilly has been identified as the place of exile of two heretical 4th century bishops, Instantius and Tiberianus, who were followers of Priscillian.\n\nIn 995, Olaf Tryggvason became King Olaf I of Norway. Born 960, Olaf had raided various European cities and fought in several wars. In 986 he (supposedly) met a Christian seer on the Isles of Scilly. He was probably Priscillian and a part of the tiny Christian community that was exiled here from Spain by Emperor Maximus for Priscillianism and their part in the Priscilline heresy. In Snorri Sturluson's Royal Sagas of Norway, it is stated that this seer told him:\nThou wilt become a renowned king, and do celebrated deeds. Many men wilt thou bring to faith and baptism, and both to thy own and others' good; and that thou mayst have no doubt of the truth of this answer, listen to these tokens. When thou comest to thy ships many of thy people will conspire against thee, and then a battle will follow in which many of thy men will fall, and thou wilt be wounded almost to death, and carried upon a shield to thy ship; yet after seven days thou shalt be well of thy wounds, and immediately thou shalt let thyself be baptised.\n\nThe legend continues that, as the seer foretold, Olaf was attacked by a group of mutineers upon returning to his ships. As soon as he had recovered from his wounds, he let himself be baptised. He then stopped raiding Christian cities, and lived in England and Ireland. In 995, he used an opportunity to return to Norway. When he arrived, the Haakon Jarl was facing a revolt. Olaf Tryggvason persuaded the rebels to accept him as their king, and Jarl Haakon was murdered by his own slave, while he was hiding from the rebels in a pig sty.\n\nWith the Norman Conquest, the Isles of Scilly came more under centralised control. About 20 years later, the Domesday survey was conducted. The islands would have formed part of the \"Exeter Domesday\" circuit, which included Cornwall, Devon, Dorset, Somerset, and Wiltshire.\n\nIn the mid-12th century, there was reportedly a Viking attack on the Isles of Scilly, called by the Norse, recorded in the \"\"— Sweyn Asleifsson \"went south, under Ireland, and seized a barge belonging to some monks in Syllingar and plundered it.\" (Chap LXXIII)\n\n...the three chiefs—Swein, Þorbjörn and Eirik—went out on a plundering expedition. They went first to the Suðreyar [Hebrides], and all along the west to the Syllingar, where they gained a great victory in Maríuhöfn on Columba's-mass [9 June], and took much booty. Then they returned to the Orkneys.\n\n\"\" literally means \"Mary's Harbour/Haven\". The name does not make it clear if it referred to a harbour on a larger island than today's St Mary's, or a whole island.\n\nIt is generally considered that Cornwall, and possibly the Isles of Scilly, came under the dominion of the English Crown late in the reign of Æthelstan ( 924–939). In early times one group of islands was in the possession of a confederacy of hermits. King Henry I (r. 1100–35) gave it to the abbey of Tavistock who established a priory on Tresco, which was abolished at the Reformation.\n\nAt the turn of the 14th century, the Abbot and convent of Tavistock Abbey petitioned the king,\nstat[ing] that they hold certain isles in the sea between Cornwall and Ireland, of which the largest is called Scilly, to which ships come passing between France, Normandy, Spain, Bayonne, Gascony, Scotland, Ireland, Wales and Cornwall: and, because they feel that in the event of a war breaking out between the kings of England and France, or between any of the other places mentioned, they would not have enough power to do justice to these sailors, they ask that they might exchange these islands for lands in Devon, saving the churches on the islands appropriated to them.\n\nWilliam le Poer, coroner of Scilly, is recorded in 1305 as being worried about the extent of wrecking in the islands, and sending a petition to the King. The names provide a wide variety of origins, e.g. Robert and Henry Sage (English), Richard de Tregenestre (Cornish), Ace de Veldre (French), Davy Gogch (possibly Welsh, or Cornish), and Adam le Fuiz Yaldicz (Spanish?).\n\nIt is not known at what point the islanders stopped speaking the Cornish language, but the language seems to have gone into decline in Cornwall beginning in the Late Middle Ages; it was still dominant between the islands and Bodmin at the time of the Reformation, but it suffered an accelerated decline thereafter. The islands appear to have lost the old Celtic language before parts of Penwith on the mainland, in contrast to the history of Irish or Scottish Gaelic.\n\nDuring the English Civil War, the Parliamentarians captured the isles, only to see their garrison mutiny and return the isles to the Royalists. By 1651 the Royalist governor, Sir John Grenville, was using the islands as a base for privateering raids on Commonwealth and Dutch shipping. The Dutch admiral Maarten Tromp sailed to the isles and on arriving on 30 May 1651 demanded compensation. In the absence of compensation or a satisfactory reply, he declared war on England in June. It was during this period that the Three Hundred and Thirty Five Years' War started between the isles and the Netherlands.\n\nIn June 1651, Admiral Robert Blake recaptured the isles for the Parliamentarians. Blake's initial attack on Old Grimsby failed, but the next attacks succeeded in taking Tresco and Bryher. Blake placed a battery on Tresco to fire on St Mary's, but one of the guns exploded, killing its crew and injuring Blake. A second battery proved more successful. Subsequently, Grenville and Blake negotiated terms that permitted the Royalists to surrender honourably. The Parliamentary forces then set to fortifying the islands. They built Cromwell's Castle—a gun platform on the west side of Tresco—using materials scavenged from an earlier gun platform further up the hill. Although this poorly sited earlier platform dated back to the 1550s, it is now referred to as King Charles's Castle.\n\nDuring the night of 22 October 1707, the isles were the scene of one of the worst maritime disasters in British history, when out of a fleet of 21 Royal Navy ships headed from Gibraltar to Portsmouth, six were driven onto the cliffs. Four of the ships sank or capsized, with at least 1,450 dead, including the commanding admiral Sir Cloudesley Shovell.\n\nThere is evidence for inundation by the tsunami caused by the 1755 Lisbon earthquake.\n\nThe islands appear to have been raided frequently by Barbary pirates to enslave residents to support the Barbary slave trade.\n\nAn early governor of Scilly was Thomas Godolphin, whose son Francis received a lease on the Isles in 1568. They were styled \"Governors of Scilly\" and the Godolphins and their Osborne relatives held this position until 1834. In 1834 Augustus John Smith acquired the lease from the Duchy for £20,000. Smith created the title \"Lord Proprietor of the Isles of Scilly\" for himself, and many of his actions were unpopular. The lease remained in his family until it expired for most of the Isles in 1920 when ownership reverted to the Duchy of Cornwall. Today, the Dorrien-Smith estate still holds the lease for the island of Tresco.\n\nThe Isles of Scilly form an archipelago of five inhabited islands (six if Gugh is counted separately from St Agnes) and numerous other small rocky islets (around 140 in total) lying off Land's End.\n\nThe islands' position produces a place of great contrast; the ameliorating effect of the sea, greatly influenced by the North Atlantic Current, means they rarely have frost or snow, which allows local farmers to grow flowers well ahead of those in mainland Britain. The chief agricultural product is cut flowers, mostly daffodils. Exposure to Atlantic winds also means that spectacular winter gales lash the islands from time to time. This is reflected in the landscape, most clearly seen on Tresco where the lush Abbey Gardens on the sheltered southern end of the island contrast with the low heather and bare rock sculpted by the wind on the exposed northern end.\n\nNatural England has designated the Isles of Scilly as National Character Area 158. As part of a 2002 marketing campaign, the plant conservation charity Plantlife chose sea thrift (\"Armeria maritima\") as the \"county flower\" of the islands.\n\nThis table provides an overview of the most important islands:\n\nIn 1975 the islands were designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The designation covers the entire archipelago, including the uninhabited islands and rocks, and is the smallest such area in the UK. The islands of Annet and Samson have large terneries and the islands are well populated by seals. The Isles of Scilly are the only British haunt of the lesser white-toothed shrew (\"Crocidura suaveolens\"), where it is known locally as a \"\"teak\" or \"teke\"\".\n\nThe islands are famous among birdwatchers for their ability to attract rare birds from all corners of the globe. The peak time of year for this is generally in October when it is not unusual for several of the rarest birds in Europe to share this archipelago. One reason for the success of these islands in producing rarities is the extensive coverage these islands get from birdwatchers, but archipelagos are often favoured by rare birds which like to make landfall and eat there before continuing their journeys and often arrive on far-flung islands first.\n\nThe tidal range at the Isles of Scilly is high for an open sea location; the maximum for St Mary's is . Additionally, the inter-island waters are mostly shallow, which at spring tides allows for dry land walking between several of the islands. Many of the northern islands can be reached from Tresco, including Bryher, Samson and St Martin's (requires very low tides). From St Martin's White Island, Little Ganilly and Great Arthur are reachable. Although the sound between St Mary's and Tresco, The Road, is fairly shallow, it never becomes totally dry, but according to some sources it should be possible to wade at extreme low tides. Around St Mary's several minor islands become accessible, including Taylor's Island on the west coast and Tolls Island on the east coast. From Saint Agnes, Gugh becomes accessible at each low tide, via a tombolo.\n\nThe Isles of Scilly has a temperate Oceanic climate (Köppen climate classification Cfb), and has one of the mildest climates in the United Kingdom. The average annual temperature is in comparison to London, where it is . Winters are among the warmest in the country due to the moderating effects of the ocean, and despite being on exactly the same latitude as Winnipeg in Canada, snow and frost are extremely rare. Summers are not as warm as on the mainland. The Scilly Isles are one of the sunniest areas in the southwest with on average 7 hours per day in May. The lowest temperature ever recorded was and the highest was . The maximum snowfall was on 12 January 1987. It has never recorded a temperature below freezing between May and November.\n\nAll the islands of Scilly are all composed of granite rock of early Permian age, an exposed part of the Cornubian batholith. The Irish Sea Glacier terminated just to the north of the Isles of Scilly during the last Ice Age.\n\nPolitically, the islands are part of England, one of the four countries of the United Kingdom. They are represented in the UK Parliament as part of the St Ives constituency. As part of the United Kingdom, the islands are part of the European Union and are represented in the European Parliament as part of the multi-member South West England constituency.\n\nHistorically, the Isles of Scilly were administered as one of the hundreds of Cornwall, although the Cornwall quarter sessions had limited jurisdiction there. For judicial purposes, shrievalty purposes, and lieutenancy purposes, the Isles of Scilly are \"deemed to form part of the county of Cornwall\". The archipelago is part of the Duchy of Cornwall – the duchy owns the freehold of most of the land on the islands and the duke exercises certain formal rights and privileges across the territory, as he does in Cornwall proper.\n\nThe Local Government Act 1888 allowed the Local Government Board to establish in the Isles of Scilly \"councils and other local authorities separate from those of the county of Cornwall\"... \"for the application to the islands of any act touching local government.\" Accordingly, in 1890 the \"Isles of Scilly Rural District Council\" (the RDC) was formed as a \"sui generis\" unitary authority, outside the administrative county of Cornwall. Cornwall County Council provided some services to the Isles, for which the RDC made financial contributions. The Isles of Scilly Order 1930 granted the Council the \"powers, duties and liabilities\" of a county council. Section 265 of the Local Government Act 1972 allowed for the continued existence of the RDC, but renamed as the \"Council of the Isles of Scilly\".\n\nThis unusual status also means that much administrative law (for example relating to the functions of local authorities, the health service and other public bodies) that applies in the rest of England applies in modified form in the islands.\n\nThe Council of the Isles of Scilly is a separate authority to the Cornwall Council unitary authority, and as such the islands are not part of the administrative county of Cornwall. However the islands are still considered to be part of the ceremonial county of Cornwall.\n\nWith a total population of just over 2,000, the council represents fewer inhabitants than many English parish councils, and is by far the smallest English unitary council. , 130 people are employed full-time by the council to provide local services (including water supply and air traffic control). These numbers are significant, in that almost 10% of the adult population of the islands is directly linked to the council, as an employee or a councillor.\n\nThe Council consists of 21 elected councillors — 13 of whom are returned by the ward of St Mary's, and two from each of four \"off-island\" wards (St Martin's, St Agnes, Bryher, and Tresco). The latest elections took place on 2 May 2013; all 20 elected were independents (one seat remained vacant).\n\nThe council is headquartered at Town Hall, by The Parade park in Hugh Town, and also performs the administrative functions of the AONB Partnership and the Inshore Fisheries and Conservation Authority.\n\nSome aspects of local government are shared with Cornwall, including health, and the Council of the Isles of Scilly together with Cornwall Council form a Local Enterprise Partnership. In July 2015 a devolution deal was announced by the government under which Cornwall Council and the Council of the Isles of Scilly are to create a plan to bring health and social care services together under local control. The Local Enterprise Partnership is also to be bolstered.\n\nTwo flags are used to represent Scilly:\n\nAn adapted version of the old Board of Ordnance flag has also been used, after it was left behind when munitions were removed from the isles. The \"Cornish Ensign\" (the Cornish cross with the Union Jack in the canton) has also been used.\n\nThe Isles of Scilly form part of the Devon and Cornwall Police force area. There is a police station in Hugh Town.\n\nThe Cornwall Air Ambulance helicopter provides cover to the islands.\n\nThe islands have their own independent fire brigade – the Isles of Scilly Fire and Rescue Service – which is staffed entirely by retained firefighters on all the inhabited islands.\n\nEducation is available on the islands up to age 16. There is one school, the Five Islands School, which provides primary schooling at sites on St Agnes, St Mary's, St Martin's and Tresco, and secondary schooling at a site on St Mary's. Secondary students from outside St Mary's live at a school boarding house (Mundesley House) during the week. In 2004, 92.9% of pupils (26 out of 28) achieved five or more GCSEs at grade C and above, compared to the English average of 53.7%. Sixteen- to eighteen-year-olds are entitled to a free sixth form place at a state school or sixth form college on the mainland, and are provided with free flights and a grant towards accommodation. Suitably qualified students after age eighteen attend universities and colleges on the mainland.\n\nSince the mid-18th century the Scillonian economy has relied on trade with the mainland and beyond as a means of sustaining its population. Over the years the nature of this trade has varied, due to wider economic and political factors that have seen the rise and fall of industries such as kelp harvesting, pilotage, smuggling, fishing, shipbuilding and, latterly, flower farming. In a 1987 study of the Scillonian economy, Neate found that many farms on the islands were struggling to remain profitable due to increasing costs and strong competition from overseas producers, with resulting diversification into tourism. Recent statistics suggest that agriculture on the islands now represents less than 2% of all employment.\n\nToday, tourism is estimated to account for 85% of the islands' income. The islands have been successful in attracting this investment due to their special environment, favourable summer climate, relaxed culture, efficient co-ordination of tourism providers and good transport links by sea and air to the mainland, uncommon in scale to similar-sized island communities. The majority of visitors stay on St Mary's, which has a concentration of holiday accommodation and other amenities. Of the other inhabited islands, Tresco is run as a timeshare resort, and is consequently the most obviously tourist-oriented. Bryher and St Martin's are more unspoilt, although each has a hotel and other accommodation. St Agnes has no hotel and is the least-developed of the inhabited islands.\n\nThe islands' economy is highly dependent on tourism, even by the standards of other island communities. “The concentration [on] a small number of sectors is typical of most similarly sized UK island communities. However, it is the degree of concentration, which is distinctive along with the overall importance of tourism within the economy as a whole and the very limited manufacturing base that stands out.”\n\nTourism is also a highly seasonal industry owing to its reliance on outdoor recreation, and the lower number of tourists in winter results in a significant constriction of the islands' commercial activities. However, the tourist season benefits from an extended period of business in October when many birdwatchers (\"birders\") arrive.\n\nBecause of its position, Scilly is the first landing for many migrant birds, including extreme rarities from North America and Siberia. Scilly is situated far into the Atlantic Ocean, so many American vagrant birds will make first European landfall in the archipelago.\n\nScilly is responsible for many firsts for Britain, and is particularly good at producing vagrant American passerines. If an extremely rare bird turns up, the island will see a significant increase in numbers of birders. This type of birding, chasing after rare birds, is called \"twitching\".\n\nThe islands are home to ornithologist Will Wagstaff.\n\nThe predominance of tourism means that \"tourism is by far the main sector throughout each of the individual islands, in terms of employment... [and] this is much greater than other remote and rural areas in the United Kingdom”. Tourism accounts for approximately 63% of all employment.\n\nBusinesses dependent on tourism, with the exception of a few hotels, tend to be small enterprises typically employing fewer than four people; many of these are family run, suggesting an entrepreneurial culture among the local population. However, much of the work generated by this, with the exception of management, is low skilled and thus poorly paid, especially for those involved in cleaning, catering and retail.\n\nBecause of the seasonality of tourism, many jobs on the islands are seasonal and part-time, so work cannot be guaranteed throughout the year. Some islanders take up other temporary jobs ‘out of season’ to compensate for this. Due to a lack of local casual labour at peak holiday times, many of the larger employers accommodate guest workers, who come to the islands for the summer to have a ‘working holiday’.\n\nThe islands were not subject to income tax until 1954, and there was no motor vehicle excise duty levied until 1971.\n\nSt Mary's is the only island with a significant road network and the only island with public highways; in 2005 there were 619 registered vehicles on the island. The island also has taxis and a tour bus. Vehicles on the islands are exempt from annual MOT tests. Roads and streets across Scilly have very few signs or markings, and route numbers (of the three A roads on St Mary's) are not marked at all.\n\nAir access to the islands is via St Mary's Airport. Fixed-wing aircraft services, operated by Isles of Scilly Skybus, operate from Land's End, Newquay and Exeter. \n\nThe scheduled helicopter service, which previously linked Penzance Heliport with St Mary's Airport and Tresco Heliport, ceased at the end of October 2012. A new heliport is currently under construction in Penzance and helicopter services to Tresco and St Mary's are expected to commence in 2019 or 2020.\n\nBy sea, the Isles of Scilly Steamship Company provides a passenger and cargo service from Penzance to St Mary's, which is currently operated by the \"Scillonian III\" passenger ferry, supported until summer 2017 by the \"Gry Maritha\" cargo vessel and now by the \"Mali Rose\". The other islands are linked to St. Mary's by a network of inter-island launches. St Mary's Harbour is the principal harbour of the Isles of Scilly, and is located in Hugh Town.\n\nThe freehold land of the islands is the property of the Duchy of Cornwall (except for Hugh Town on St Mary's, which was sold to the inhabitants in 1949). The duchy also holds as duchy property, part of the duchy's landholding. All the uninhabited islands, islets and rocks and much of the untenanted land on the inhabited islands is managed by the Isles of Scilly Wildlife Trust, which leases these lands from the Duchy for the rent of one daffodil per year. The trust currently has four full-time salaried staff and 12 trustees, who are all residents of the Isles. The full trust board is responsible for policy whilst a management team is responsible for day-to-day administration. Its small income and the small number of staff have led to the trust adopting a policy of recruiting volunteers to help it carry out its extensive work programme. While volunteers of all ages are welcome, most are young people who are studying for qualifications in related fields, such as conservation and land management.\n\nLimited housing availability is a contentious yet critical issue for the Isles of Scilly, especially as it affects the feasibility of residency on the islands. Few properties are privately owned, with many units being let by the Duchy of Cornwall, the council and a few by housing associations. The management of these subsequently affects the possibility of residency on the islands. The Duchy Tenants Association was formed in 1996 by a number of tenants of the Duchy of Cornwall.\n\nHousing demand outstrips supply, a problem compounded by restrictions on further development designed to protect the islands' unique environment and prevent the infrastructural carrying capacity from being exceeded. This has pushed up the prices of the few private properties that become available and, significantly for the majority of the islands' populations, it has also affected the rental sector where rates have likewise drastically increased.\n\nHigh housing costs pose significant problems for the local population, especially as local incomes (in Cornwall) are only 70% of the national average, whilst house prices are almost £5,000 higher than the national average. This in turn affects the retention of ‘key workers’ and the younger generation, which consequently affects the viability of schools and other essential community services.\n\nThe limited access to housing provokes strong local politics. It is often assumed that tourism is to blame for this, attracting newcomers to the area who can afford to outbid locals for available housing. Many buildings are used for tourist accommodation which reduces the number available for local residents. Second homes are also thought to account for a significant proportion of the housing stock, leaving many buildings empty for much of the year.\n\nAccording to the 2001 UK census, 97% of the population of the islands are white British, with nearly 93% of the inhabitants born in the islands, in mainland Cornwall or elsewhere in England. Since EU enlargement in 2004, a number of eastern Europeans have moved to the island, joining the Australians, New Zealanders and South Africans who traditionally made up most of the islands' overseas workers. By 2005, their numbers were estimated at nearly 100 out of a total population of just over 2,000. The Isles have also been referred to as \"the land that crime forgot\", reflecting lower crime levels than national averages.\n\nOne continuing legacy of the isles' past is gig racing, wherein fast rowing boats (\"gigs\") with crews of six (or in one case, seven) race between the main islands. Gig racing has been said to derive from the race to collect salvage from shipwrecks on the rocks around Scilly, but the race was actually to deliver a pilot onto incoming vessels, to guide them through the hazardous reefs and shallows. (The boats are correctly termed \"pilot gigs\"). The World Pilot Gig Championships are held annually over the May Day bank holiday weekend. The event originally involved crews from the Islands and a few crews from Cornwall, but in the intervening years the number of gigs attending has increased, with crews coming from all over the South-West and further afield.\n\nThe Isles of Scilly feature what is reportedly the smallest football league in the world, the Isles of Scilly Football League. The league's two clubs, Woolpack Wanderers and Garrison Gunners, play each other 17 times each season and compete for two cups and for the league title. The league was a launching pad for the Adidas \"Dream Big\" Campaign in which a number of famous professional footballers (including David Beckham) arrive on the island to coach the local children's side. The two share a ground, Garrison Field, but travel to the mainland for part of the year to play other non-professional clubs.\n\nIn December 2006, Sport England published a survey which revealed that residents of the Isles of Scilly were the most active in England in sports and other fitness activities. 32% of the population participate at least three times a week for 30 minutes or more.\n\nThere is a golf club with a nine-hole course (each with two tees) situated on the island of St Mary's, near Porthloo and Telegraph. The club was founded in 1904 and is open to visitors.\n\nThe islands are served by a radio and television transmitter at Telegraph, on St Mary's, which is a relay of the main transmitter at Redruth (Cornwall) and broadcasts BBC Radio 1, 2, 3, 4 and BBC Radio Cornwall and the range of Freeview television and BBC radio channels known as 'Freeview Light'. Radio Scilly, a community radio station, was launched in September 2007.\n\nThere is no local newspaper; \"Scilly Now & Then\" is a free community magazine produced eight times a year and is available to mainland subscribers while \"The Scillonian\" is published twice yearly and reports matters of local interest. There is an active news forum on the news and information websites scillytoday.com and thisisscilly.com.\n\nInternet access is available across the inhabited islands by means of superfast fibre broadband by BT. The islands connected via fibre are St. Mary's, Tresco and Bryher. St. Martins, St. Agnes and Gugh are connected via a new fibre microwave link from St. Mary's, with fibre cabinets on each island, including Gugh.\n\nMobile phone coverage is available across the archipelago, with 2G, 3G and 4G services available across all islands, although coverage does vary between operators. Vodafone and O2 provide strong 4G coverage across all the islands, whilst EE's is somewhat limited beyond Gugh towards St. Agnes. Three provide 3G coverage to all the islands, and 4G is due shortly.\n\nThe Isles of Scilly were featured on the TV programme \"Seven Natural Wonders\" as one of the wonders of South West England. Since 2007 the islands have featured in the BBC series \"An Island Parish\", following various real-life stories and featuring in particular the newly appointed \"Chaplain to the Isles of Scilly\". A 12-part series was filmed in 2007 and first broadcast on BBC2 in January 2008. After Reverend David Easton left the islands in 2009, the series continued under the same name but focused elsewhere.\n\nThe heroine of Walter Besant's novel \"Armorel of Lyonesse\" came from Samson, and about half the action of the novel takes place in the Isles of Scilly.\n\nThe events of Nevil Shute's novel \"Marazan\" occur, in part, around these islands.\n\nFive children's books written by Michael Morpurgo, \"Why the Whales Came\", \"The Sleeping Sword\", \"The Wreck of the Zanzibar\", \"Arthur, High King of Britain\" and \"Listen to the Moon\" are set around the Isles of Scilly.\n\n\"The Riddle of Samson\", a novel by Andrew Garve (a pen name of Paul Winterton) is set mainly around the Isles of Scilly.\n\nIn \"Jacob's Room\", by Virginia Woolf, the hero and a friend of his sail around the islands.\n\nThe novels that make up \"The Cortes Trilogy\" by John Paul Davis take place in the Isles of Scilly.\n\n\"Stone In the Blood\" by Colin Jordan and David England is set on the islands both in 1974 and the Iron Age, when most of Scilly was still one joined landmass.\n\nScilly is mentioned in the traditional British naval song \"Spanish Ladies\".\n\nScilly is mentioned in the song \"Phenomenal Cat\" by The Kinks on their album The Kinks are the Village Green Preservation Society.\n\nIsles of Scilly is a song by the Icelandic artist Catmanic. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51093567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51093567", "title": "Jagadguru Kripalu Parishat", "text": "Jagadguru Kripalu Parishat\n\nJagadguru Kripalu Parishat (JKP), previously known as Sadhna Bhawan Trust, was established in 1970 by Jagadguru Shri Kripalu Ji Maharaj and continues to run today under his auspices, with the leadership of the three Presidents he has appointed.\n\nAs a non-profit, charitable, educational and spiritual organisation, dedicated to increasing spiritual awareness, JKP works tirelessly to disseminate the teachings of Jagadguru Shri Kripalu Ji Maharaj throughout the world. Following a clearly defined set of aims and objectives, JKP continues its work in India and globally, focusing on the growing number of people seeking spiritual guidance and support. In addition to this, JKP also works to cater to broader social welfare issues, such as educating and providing medical care to those at a disadvantage in society. This work has increased substantially over the years and JKP's three hospitals now cater to over 450,000 people annually. These efforts have been sustained through the auspices of Kripalu Maharaj and the JKP Presidents who continue to guide and inspire the trust to move forward. Due to this, JKP is continuing to have a smooth and efficient operation.\n\nPresident - JKP Bhakti Dham, Mangarh\nConsidered by devotees to be an embodiment of pure devotion and love, she inspires them to be fully devoted to the divine service of Hari and Guru. She is a pillar of strength and leadership to the worldwide community and remains fully engrossed in the strategic planning and advancement of all JKP projects. Her presence has been instrumental in empowering JKP volunteers to perform their work enthusiastically. The entire world owes her for the invaluable treasure of Shri Maharaj Ji's memories that she herself has preserved using various new technologies.\n\nPresident, JKP Shyama Shyam Dham, Vrindavan\nAs an eminent scholar with profound knowledge of Jagadguru Kripalu Bhaktiyoga Tattva Darshan (the body of works propounded by Jagadguru Kripalu Ji Maharaj) and the divine scriptures of Hinduism, she is recognized within the organization for her aptitude in answering any queries in depth. She has also been instrumental in training Shri Maharaj Ji's appointed preachers, who actively spread the knowledge and teachings of Hinduism worldwide. Dr. Shyama Tripathi oversees all the publication works of JKP and is key in guiding all preachers of JKP in spreading Shri Maharaj Ji's message and philosophy throughout the world. She is recognized as a symbol of devotional discipline and hard work.\n\nPresident, JKP Rangeeli Mahal, Barsana\nConsidered to be a personification of true worship and devotion, she is acknowledged for her ability to present the ideal ways of life to be adopted by a devotee. Regarded as a personality with childlike innocence, energy and enthusiasm, she is regarded for her skill at instilling hope, vigor and love in all devotees, inspiring them to live and embrace a lifestyle in accordance with Shri Maharaj Ji's philosophy. Dr. Krishna Tripathi is also an eminent scholar with profound knowledge of the divine scriptures of Hinduism. She is popularly known for welcoming questions from spiritual seekers and answering them wholeheartedly to erase doubts in the spiritual aspirants' mind. Recognized for her skill in the art of adornment, she designs the ornate dresses of all deities within the JKP Monuments.\n\n\nJKP, under the inspiration, love and guidance of Jagadguru Shri Kripalu Maharaj, will continue to strive in its goal to serve more of the hundreds of thousands of people who are in desperate need of welfare. His appointed JKP Presidents are tirelessly moving forward with the goals set out by the founder.\n\nUnder the umbrella of JKP, there are three main philanthropic groups that have been established by Jagadguru Shri Kripalu Ji Maharaj.\n\nThe first, Jagadguru Kripalu Chikitsalaya (JKC), a 100% free charitable hospital group that was established in 2003. The setup of JKC started with hospitals setup in Kunda (November 2003) and then in Barsana (January 2007) which are both in Uttar Pradesh. JKC has helped thousands of sick villagers in these remote locations in India due to the lack of medical facilities. It is unimaginable how such an endeavor has saved so many lives. In September 2015, JKC opened its third facility in Vrindavan, housing important medical equipment, doctors and nurses living quarters as well as 100-beds to treat patients. All three hospitals will serve over 450,000 people in Uttar Pradesh ensuring constant medical care through a combination of allopathic, homeopathic, ayurvedic and naturopathic treatments.\n\nThe second group under JKP is Jagadguru Kripalu Parishat Education (JKPE) which provides 100% free schooling to over 5000 village girls living near and around Kunda. The schooling covers from pre-primary to post-graduate levels, using the best technology and amenities, via three institutions at Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh. Unfortunately, girls in this location do not receive the kind of education that would help them succeed in life. We know that when girls have equal opportunities to education, then the cycles of poverty are broken, economies grow and their potentials are unleashed.\n\nJKP Education has established\n\nThe third group is JKP's task of providing social services in as many means as possible. This is done through the various funds to help widows, the poor and underprivileged. For example, in April 2015, JKP distributed clothes and daily necessities to 4000 widows in Vrindavan and in November 2015 more than 5000 Sadhus were provided with valuable necessities for their living. Like this, many efforts are made to serve humanity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51584904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51584904", "title": "James Macadam Hare", "text": "James Macadam Hare\n\nJames Macadam Hare FRSE FRCS (1775–1831) was an eminent Scottish physician, closely linked to India, who was employed by the East India Company.\n\nHe was born on 13 September 1775; the son of Dr James Hare of Calderhall FRSE FSA, probably at Calderhall, just west of Edinburgh. His father spent much of his life as a physician in the East Indies.\n\nHare studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh and graduated with a MD in 1796. He joined the East India Company in 1802 serving as a surgeon in their Indian Medical Service there until 1814, when he then transferred to be surgeon of the President of Calcutta. He spent much of his time travelling between Scotland and India. In 1813 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Thomas Allan, Dr James Russell and David Brewster.\n\nIn 1823 he served as President of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta.\n\nHe retired in 1827 and returned to live in Edinburgh. He died at his home, 45 Charlotte Square in Edinburgh on 12 February 1831.\n\nHe married Harriet Jackson, daughter of William Jackson. They had a daughter, Maria Anstruther Hare (1805–1829) and ten other children.\n"}
{"id": "57731725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731725", "title": "John Armstrong Garnett", "text": "John Armstrong Garnett\n\nJohn Armstrong Garnett (24 June 1767 - 16 January 1831) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1810.\n\n"}
{"id": "3099164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099164", "title": "Kessler syndrome", "text": "Kessler syndrome\n\nThe Kessler syndrome (also called the Kessler effect, collisional cascading or ablation cascade), proposed by the NASA scientist Donald J. Kessler in 1978, is a scenario in which the density of objects in low Earth orbit (LEO) is high enough that collisions between objects could cause a cascade where each collision generates space debris that increases the likelihood of further collisions. One implication is that the distribution of debris in orbit could render space activities and the use of satellites in specific orbital ranges impractical for many generations.\n\nEvery satellite, space probe, and manned mission has the potential to produce space debris. A cascading Kessler syndrome becomes more likely as satellites in orbit increase in number. As of 2014, there were about 2,000 commercial and government satellites orbiting the earth. It is estimated that there are 600,000 pieces of space junk ranging from 1 cm to 10 cm, and on average one satellite is destroyed each year.\n\nThe most commonly used orbits for both manned and unmanned space vehicles are low earth orbits, which cover an altitude range low enough for residual air drag to be sufficient to help keep the zone clear. Collisions that occur in this altitude range are also less of an issue because the directions into which the fragments fly and/or their lower specific energy often result in orbits intersecting with Earth or having perigee below this altitude.\n\nOrbital decay is much slower at altitudes where atmospheric drag is insignificant. Slight atmospheric drag, lunar perturbation, and solar wind drag can gradually bring debris down to lower altitudes where fragments finally re-enter, but this process can take millennia at very high altitudes.\n\nThe Kessler syndrome is troublesome because of the domino effect and feedback runaway wherein impacts between objects of sizable mass spall off debris from the force of the collision. The shrapnel can then hit other objects, producing even more space debris: if a large enough collision or explosion were to occur, such as between a space station and a defunct satellite, or as the result of hostile actions in space, then the resulting debris cascade could make prospects for long-term viability of satellites in low earth orbit extremely low. However, even a catastrophic Kessler scenario at LEO would pose minimal risk for launches continuing past LEO, or satellites travelling at medium Earth orbit (MEO) or geosynchronous orbit (GEO). The catastrophic scenarios predict an increase in the number of collisions per year, as opposed to a physically impassable barrier to space exploration that occurs in higher orbits.\n\nDesigners of a new vehicle or satellite are frequently required to demonstrate that it can be safely disposed of at the end of its life, for example by use of a controlled atmospheric reentry system or a boost into a graveyard orbit. \nIn order to obtain a license to provide telecommunications services in the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) requires all geostationary satellites launched after March 18, 2002 to commit to moving to a graveyard orbit at the end of their operational life. U.S. government regulations require a boost, formula_1, of ≈300 km.\n\nA proposed energy-efficient means of deorbiting a spacecraft from MEO is to shift it to an orbit in an unstable resonance with the Sun or Moon that speeds up orbital decay.\n\nOne technology proposed to help deal with fragments from 1 cm to 10 cm in size is the laser broom, a proposed multimegawatt land-based laser that could deorbit debris: the side of the debris hit by the laser would ablate and create a thrust that would change the eccentricity of the remains of the fragment until it would re-enter harmlessly.\n\nThe Envisat satellite is a large, inactive satellite with a mass of that drifts at , an altitude where the debris environment is the greatest—two catalogued objects can be expected to pass within about 200 meters of Envisat every year—and likely to increase. It could easily become a major debris contributor from a collision during the next 150 years that it will remain in orbit.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57141746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57141746", "title": "Lebollo la basadi", "text": "Lebollo la basadi\n\nLebollo la basadi also known as female initiation among the Basotho is a rite of passage ritual which marks the transition of girls into womanhood. This activity is still practiced in the Free State province of South Africa however, not widely. In Sesotho, lebolla means initiation. The Basotho rite of passage ritual, unlike other practices in Africa, does not involve procedures which remove parts of the female genital organ. However, the inner folds of the labia are enlarged & elongated by stretching for a more pleasurable sexual experience. In areas where initiation is still valued, uninitiated girls are ridiculed by society. \n\nSouth African children are compelled by its constitution to attend school. Therefore, many girls do not attend initiation schools resulting in the practice of initiation becoming less popular. Female Basotho initiation is commonly practiced in rural areas, particularly in the eastern Free State.\n\nThe rite of passage of ‘lebolla’ commonly occurs in rural areas where the Basotho are more traditionally oriented. It occurs on farms and small villages where the resources and environment aid in creating the setting for the rituals. Areas with a higher incidence of female initiation include Ficksburg and Clocolan in the Free State as well as in Butha-Butha and Mphosong in Lesotho. Elongation of the labia is not done in hospitals or clinics as there is no medical requirement for it.\n\nBasotho female initiation schools are planned to correspond with the rising of the full moon. The full moon symbolizes female sexuality and fertility for the Basotho people. Seasons and favourable conditions are also considered. Some schools take place in October however, many participate in December which allows for scholars to attend during their holiday.\n\nThe minimum age for a girl to attend initiation school is 12. Ages of initiation school attendance range from 12 to 20 years old however the generally accepted age for girls is between 15 and 18. The incidence of a girls first menses, ‘menarche’, is regarded as a positive indication for physical and spiritual readiness for initiation school attendance. While having reached puberty is a good indicator for readiness for joining the initiation school, puberty is not a strict requirement.\n\nA female traditional healer/traditional surgeon called a ‘’ngaka’’ is required for the initiation practice. The traditional healer is found during the planning stage of the initiation. The traditional healer is believed to have more clarity of natural forces and their interaction with the world. Activities only commence once the ‘ngaka’ arrives. Additional local traditional doctors are sometimes asked to oversee the process however, their presence is not essential.\n\nThe promotor, known as ‘monga mophato’ promotes the initiation school thus ‘owns’ the initiation school. Promoters usually devote their entire lives to facilitating initiation schools and become more sought after with more years of experience. The promoter is responsible for supplying food, which includes the slaughtering of animals for ceremonies. It is also the promotor’s responsibility to find a reputable traditional healer. The promoters become renowned for their work and are often requested to present an initiation school. They receive remuneration in the form of meat and money. The instructress, known as ‘mosuwe’ in Sesotho, takes responsibility for the care and training of the initiates for the duration of the initiation period. They are also responsible for initiate discipline.\n\nThe Free State Initiation School Health Act of 2004 (No. 1 of 2004) stipulates criteria and regulations necessary to conduct initiation schools. One of the requirements includes explicit, written permission to host the initiation school and treat initiates by the District Medical Officer. Other requirements include written consent of those over 18 years of age and parental consent for those below the age of 18., a clean bill of health by a primary health care nurse or a medical practitioner. A district Environmental Officer, designated by the MEC, inspects the initiation schools ensuring that there is adequate water supply, hygienic food preparation as well as adequate instruments (if physical circumcision is done). The initiation school may not be held for longer than 2 months and initiates are not to be subject to any form of corporal punishment.\n\nInitiation includes rituals or ceremonies that serve to admit the individual into a certain position in society. The purposes of these rites is to announce genital maturity as well as the change in their social status to ‘woman’. Female initiation often correlates with puberty which includes the girls first menstruation..The immediate family plays an integral role in the initiation process of the girl by teaching the initiate how to behave as a woman and also ways to enhance the sexual experience in marriage. The initiation of Basotho girls is more likely to occur in societies where polygamy is practiced therefore the ‘immediate’ family would include various households which aids in creating solidarity between all the women of the family. However, female initiation can also occur where matriarchy or bilocality is the norm.\n\nSocieties where women make a significant contribution to the subsistence of the community tend to have initiation ceremonies for the girls in order to educate the girls as well as communities that she is capable of fulfilling her obligations. Additionally, the ceremony emphasizes the importance of the role of the woman in the community. Families strongly encourage initiation from an early age and young girls often witness the initiation of family members and girls from the broader community.\n\nThe initiation process includes the Basotho girls transitioning through different phases.“Phepa” is a white soil used by girls on their body and “Pilo”, a black soil, is used as a mask for identification of the different clans. These clans include Bataung, Bahlakoana, Bakoena, Bafokeng, Basiea, and Baphuthing. The initiators know which tribe is eligible to use a certain soil type or both of them for identification.\n\nThe girls are taught to self elongate their labia. The labia is enlarged through massaging and stretching from the top to the bottom of the labia using the tips of the thumb and the index finger. Different herbs are ground and converted into a paste in order to ease tension while pulling. These herbs are believed to soften and lubricate the labia to reduce the risk of any skin lacerations. The World Health Organization classified inner labial elongation as a Type IV female genital mutilation (non excisional type) in 2002. This was criticized by some scholars such as Gallo, Marian Koster MSc and Dr. Lisa Price of Wageningen University, Netherlands as they believed it should be classified as ‘ethnic genital modification’. This led the WHO amending their classification of it to \"modification\" instead of ‘mutilation’ in February 2008. The practice of labial stretching in Basotho women does not violate women's rights as it does not involve physical violence, unless the woman is misled as to the benefits of the practice. \nBasotho girls undergoing initiation assist each other to elongate the labia and are therefore able to compete about who has the longest labia. The girls are told that elongated labia increases sexual pleasure for their future husbands and that elongation increases a woman’s chances of marriage. Some initiates report it being painful however others find pleasure in the practice. Many girls also believe that if they do not elongate their labia, they could experience difficulty giving birth. Due to the sometimes competitive nature of labial elongation, some girls resort in dangerous measures in order to elongate the labia. Some girls have been known to tie a piece of string to the labia and attached a small stone to assist in the pulling and others have been known to use the incorrect herbs resulting in rashes. Many of these alternative practices are done without the supervision of the traditional healers. Girls who experience complications are admitted to hospitals/ clinics.\n\nPossible complications include itching, swelling, minor tears and pain.\n\nBasotho women who have elongated their labia are unable to confirm whether the elongation assisted in the child birthing process as many feel they experience the same as women who did not undergo elongation. Basotho women also report on their husbands having sexual relations with women who have not had their labia elongated and are therefore not convinced of the efficacy of elongated labia lips in sexual satisfaction.\n\nThe outfits worn during initiation require much attention. The preparation period for Basotho girls in Lesotho can be lengthy however, in the Free State, the preparation can be done within a day. The girl receives a sheepskin blanket from her maternal uncle or any other male representative. On the first day, the girls usually wear an old linen dress and an old dull blanket. This attire is discarded soon after and is replaced by a cowhide or sheepskin skirt. The girl is also given a veil as well as a grass or reed hoop which grows along the river banks called ‘dikgolokwane’ to wear around the waist. The girls also wear handcrafted clay necklaces. The girl leaves the initiation school wearing an elegant cowhide dress, beads, ornaments, new blankets, colourful towels and red-ochre.\n\nInitiates are ranked according to a totem position. The most senior initiate is called the ‘Molobe’ followed by ‘Molobenyana’ or ‘Lelate’ and the most junior position is called ‘Senkoyhi’ however, this ranking system is not always applied and its use is area dependent. The girl initiate may undergo initiation with a female relative including sisters, father’s younger sisters, mother’s younger sister or niece. She may not be in the same initiation school or time as her mother, mother’s older sister or grandmother. In the case that relatives are in the same initiation school, it is customary to place a knob-stick in the fence of the initiation school entrance. The relatives are also to enter and exit the initiation school from opposite sides of the stick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236091", "title": "Mysteron", "text": "Mysteron\n\nThe Mysterons are a fictional race of extraterrestrials. They are the remnants of the original Mysteron race, extraterrestrial life forms that originated in a galaxy other than the Milky Way and maintained their colony on Mars. They appear in the British science-fiction Supermarionation television series \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" (1967–68) and \"Gerry Anderson's New Captain Scarlet\" (2005), symbolised by ubiquitous projected green rings and the deep bass voice of their human convert, Captain Black.\n\nHostilities between Earth and the Mysterons commence following a \"Zero-X\" expedition on Mars led by Captain Black of the Earth security organisation Spectrum. The purpose of the mission had been to locate the source of radio signals that Spectrum had detected emanating from the planet. The \"Zero-X\" astronauts discover an alien city complex on the Martian surface. After mistaking a surveillance camera for a weapons placement, Black fears an attack and, in violation of his orders, launches an assault on the complex that destroys it completely. However, the city is almost immediately rebuilt before their eyes as a blue beam of light passes over the ruins.\n\nIdentifying themselves as the Mysterons, the aliens claim to have discovered the secret of \"reversing matter\" (a power later referred to as \"retrometabolism\"). They have the ability to alter matter (using some sort of teleportation technology), to heal any physical injury, and to re-create the exact likeness of any object or person – a power they can exercise only after the original object has been destroyed or the original person killed. Dedicating themselves to a \"slow, but nonetheless effective\" retaliation for the unprovoked attack on their Martian complex, the Mysterons seize telepathic control of Black and return him to Earth, making him instrumental in avenging the Mysterons by recruiting other persons and objects in a similar fashion.\n\nHowever, the Mysterons' attempt to assassinate the World President – for the purposes of which they kill and re-create Spectrum's foremost agent, Captain Scarlet, as an indestructible doppelganger – fails when a kidnapping of the president is foiled and the Scarlet reconstruction falls to its apparent death from the top of a tower, later regaining the consciousness of the original, human officer (how this happens is never explained in the series canon).\n\nThe Mysterons themselves are never seen on screen. They broadcast their threats by radio, often disguising their intentions with word play- such as stating that they will 'Kill Time' when they intend to kill a major Spanish official whose surname is 'Tiempo' (Spanish for 'Time') in the episode \"Operation Time\"-, and are represented visually only by twin rings of green light, suggestive of eyes, that they project onto scenes of murder and destruction of their making from which likenesses emerge. The Mysteron likenesses created are impervious to X-Rays- showing up on X-Rays as though they were conventional photographs- and can only be destroyed by massive amounts of electricity. The recreation process they use only requires the subject to be clinically dead before the copy is created; in one episode (Treble Cross), World Air Force test pilot Major Gravener, who the Mysterons had attacked and copied was later resuscitated in hospital, allowing Spectrum to set a trap for the Mysterons by sending the real Major Gravner out in place of his duplicate.\n\nAnderson originally intended the Mysterons to be more conventional Martians, later choosing to make them effectively invisible so that the series would not feel dated. The \"TV Century 21\" comic book depicted the Mysterons as both energy beings and a computer collective.\n\nThe final episode of the re-imagined series, \"Gerry Anderson's New Captain Scarlet\", reveals a great deal about the Mysterons as they exist in the version of the new series. They live in a city on Mars that is normally hidden from view. The city appears on the surface of Mars for the first time in 2068, during the ill-fated mission commanded by Captain Black (\"Instrument of Destruction, Part 1\"). They are categorically stated to be energy beings, with one being shown to be capable of transforming into the \"green rings\", and are to some extent individualised – there is a dissenting faction in the \"Mysteron consciousness\" (as a member of the faction puts it) that believes that, given time, humans will outgrow their destructive impulses and become more like the Mysterons themselves. Unfortunately for the series' protagonists, this group has virtually no influence, and their only agent dispatched to Earth was quickly de-corporalised and remanded into Mysteron custody by the majority group's primary agent, Black.\n\nThe Mysterons were first discovered by Spectrum captains Scarlet and Black during an investigation into the source of strange signals emanating from Mars. They appear as a pair of green rings; however, it is not known whether this is the result of technology. The Mysterons claim to be peaceful beings, but wage a \"war of nerves\" against the people of Earth following Black's devastating assault on the Mysteron city.\n\nThe Mysterons possess the ability to reconstruct exact replicas of objects or persons. It is due to this remarkable ability that they are able to re-create their city following Black's attack. They also employ this power from time to time during the \"Mysteronisation\" process, which imbues the reconstruction (dubbed \"replicant\" by Spectrum) with the power of \"retro-metabolisation\" – the replicant is able to heal completely from almost any injury, including fatal ones. The only known survivor of the process is Scarlet, who retains his retro-metabolism and remains virtually indestructible, an ability which is a great asset in his work.\n\nMysterons are also able to control the minds of their human victims, whether the subject has been replicated or not. Mysterons make use of hypnosis for short-term control, as demonstrated by the replicant of Commander Lewis on Doctor Gold (\"The Homecoming\"). To create a full agent, they use the reconstruction process which leaves them in total control of the victim's body.\n\nThe Mysteronisation process alters the replicants at the sub-atomic level and subtly alters their genetic code. It is this alteration of DNA that leaves them vulnerable to detection, and as such all Spectrum personnel are subject to regular DNA checking.\n\nAlasdair Wilkins and Sophie Bushwick of the entertainment website io9 categorise the Mysterons as an example of the \"monstrous and evil\" variety of Martian commonly seen in film, television and literature, and rank them second only to the invaders of the H. G. Wells novel \"The War of the Worlds\" (1897) for malevolence.\n\nWilkins and Bushwick describe the Mysterons as \"an unfathomable race of probably non-corporeal entities\"; to cultural historian Nicholas J. Cull, they are a species of \"invisible\" extraterrestrial. The tie-in publication \"The Complete Book of Captain Scarlet\", by Chris Bentley, refutes the suggestion that the Mysterons featured in the series are a type of energy being, stating explicitly that they are \"sentient computers\" forming a group consciousness, possessing the ability to manipulate matter. The Martian computer complex is the legacy of the original, corporeal Mysteron species – said to be of extragalactic origin and \"masters in the art of computer technology\" – who arrived on Mars in the mid–2nd millennium BC and left the planet at the start of the 20th century AD.\n\nFor Cull, that the Mysterons are unseen makes them all the more \"terrifying\". Cull, who has studied \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" as a media product of the Cold War, judges the Mysterons and their \"war of nerves\" against Earth to be instrumental to the epitomisation of what he terms the \"Cold War scenario\", a theme stated to be common to several of the Andersons' television works. He alludes to other science fiction of the era, stating that the Mysterons' power of reconstruction \"creates an ever-present danger of an enemy within, which is the stuff of archetypal Cold War paranoia narratives on the model of \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1956).\" In Cull's view, the \"scenario\" offered by \"Captain Scarlet\" displays a progressive, contemporary attitude towards the Cold War in so far as the destruction of the Mysterons' base by humans in the first episode \"opens the issue of blame and invites reflection on the guilt of one's own side.\"\n\nCommenting on the characterisation of the villains in the 2005 re-make, David Garland suggests that the Mysterons' continued focus on \"terrorising\" Earth remotely, as opposed to invading it physically, \"holds particular contemporary resonance\".\n\nActor Cy Grant, who voiced the original Lieutenant Green character and interpreted \"Captain Scarlet\" as having positive multicultural value, commented on the allegorical nature of the series. On the subject of colour dualism, Grant asserted: \"The 'darkness' of the Mysterons is most easily seen as the psychological rift—the struggle of 'good' and 'evil' — of the Western world as personified by Colonel White and his team. Dark and light are but aspects of each other. Incidentally, green is the colour of nature that can heal that rift.\"\n"}
{"id": "34533749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34533749", "title": "Naggin", "text": "Naggin\n\nA naggin in Ireland is a 200ml bottle of spirits. Major brands of vodka, whiskey, rum, and less often gin, are commonly sold in this size in off licences, especially independent (non-chain) shops, typically at 37.5% to 40% ABV. Naggins are more common than half-bottles (350ml - known as a \"shoulder\"), though for the less popular majority of products neither size is available, only the 700 mL EU standard bottle size . The naggin bottle is typically the shape of a large hip flask, suitable for placing in a pocket.\n\nAccording to the Oxford English Dictionary, \"naggin\" is a variant of \"noggin\", a word of uncertain origin recorded from the seventeenth century and meaning a small quantity of alcohol, usually one gill (). Tomás S. Ó Máille derives it from the Irish \"naigín, cnaigín\", a small wooden pail with a capacity of two glasses.\n\nNaggins, particularly of cheap vodka, are very popular among youths, under-age drinkers and students. They are often implicated in binge drinking.\n"}
{"id": "1466758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1466758", "title": "Neonatal intensive care unit", "text": "Neonatal intensive care unit\n\nA neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), also known as an intensive care nursery (ICN), is an intensive care unit specializing in the care of ill or premature newborn infants. Neonatal refers to the first 28 days of life. Neonatal care, as known as specialized nurseries or intensive care, has been around since the 1960s.\n\nThe first American newborn intensive care unit, designed by Louis Gluck, was opened in October 1960 at Yale–New Haven Hospital.\n\nNICU is typically directed by one or more neonatologists and staffed by nurses, nurse practitioners, pharmacists, physician assistants, resident physicians, respiratory therapists, and dietitians. Many other ancillary disciplines and specialists are available at larger units.\n\nThe term \"neonatal\" comes from \"neo\", \"new\", and \"natal\", \"pertaining to birth or origin\".\n\nNeonatal nurse practitioners are advanced practice nurses that care for premature babies and sick newborns in intensive care units, emergency rooms, delivery rooms, and special clinics. Prematurity is a risk factor that follows early labour, a planned caesarean section, or pre-eclampsia.\n\nHealthcare institutions have varying entry-level requirements for neonatal nurses. Neonatal nurses are registered nurses (RNs), and therefore must have an Associate of Science in Nursing (ASN) or Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree. Some countries or institutions may also require a midwifery qualification. Some institutions may accept newly graduated RNs having passed the NCLEX exam; others may require additional experience working in adult-health or medical/surgical nursing.\n\nSome countries offer postgraduate degrees in neonatal nursing, such as the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) and various doctorates. A nurse practitioner may be required to hold a postgraduate degree. The National Association of Neonatal Nurses recommends two years' experience working in a NICU before taking graduate classes.\n\nAs with any registered nurse, local licensing or certifying bodies as well as employers may set requirements for continuing education.\n\nThere are no mandated requirements to becoming an RN in an NICU, although neonatal nurses must have certification as a neonatal resuscitation provider. Some units prefer new graduates who do not have experience in other units, so they may be trained in the specialty exclusively, while others prefer nurses with more experience already under their belt.\n\nIntensive-care nurses undergo intensive didactic and clinical orientation in addition to their general nursing knowledge in order to provide highly specialized care for critical patients. Their competencies include the administration of high-risk medications, management of high-acuity patients requiring ventilator support, surgical care, resuscitation, advanced interventions such as extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or hypothermia therapy for neonatal encephalopathy procedures, as well as chronic-care management or lower acuity cares associated with premature infants such as feeding intolerance, phototherapy, or administering antibiotics. NICU RNs undergo annual skills tests and are subject to additional training to maintain contemporary practice.\n\nThe problem of premature and congenitally ill infants is not a new one. As early as the 17th and 18th centuries, there were scholarly papers published that attempted to share knowledge of interventions. It was not until 1922, however, that hospitals started grouping the newborn infants into one area, now called the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU).\n\nBefore the industrial revolution, premature and ill infants were born and cared for at home and either lived or died without medical intervention. In the mid-nineteenth century, the infant incubator was first developed, based on the incubators used for chicken eggs. Dr. Stephane Tarnier is generally considered to be the father of the incubator (or isolette as it is now known), having developed it to attempt to keep premature infants in a Paris maternity ward warm. Other methods had been used before, but this was the first closed model; in addition, he helped convince other physicians that the treatment \"helped\" premature infants. France became a forerunner in assisting premature infants, in part due to its concerns about a falling birth rate.\n\nAfter Tarnier retired, Dr. Pierre Budin, followed in his footsteps, noting the limitations of infants in incubators and the importance of breastmilk and the mother’s attachment to the child. Budin is known as the father of modern perinatology, and his seminal work \"The Nursling\" (\"Le Nourisson\" in French) became the first major publication to deal with the care of the neonate.\n\nAnother factor that contributed to the development of modern neonatology was thanks to Dr. Martin Couney and his permanent installment of premature babies in incubators at Coney Island. A more controversial figure, he studied under Dr. Budin and brought attention to premature babies and their plight through his display of infants as sideshow attractions at Coney Island and the World’s Fair in New York and Chicago in 1933 and 1939, respectively. Infants had also previously been displayed in incubators at the 1897, 1898, 1901, and 1904 World Fairs.\n\nDoctors took an increasing role in childbirth from the eighteenth century onward. However, the care of newborn babies, sick or well, remained largely in the hands of mothers and midwives. Some baby incubators, similar to those used for hatching chicks, were devised in the late nineteenth century. In the United States, these were shown at commercial exhibitions, complete with babies inside, until 1931. Dr A. Robert Bauer MD at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, MI, successfully combined oxygen, heat, humidity, ease of accessibility, and ease of nursing care in 1931. It was not until after the Second World War that special-care baby units (SCBUs) were established in many hospitals. In Britain, early SCBUs opened in Birmingham and Bristol, the latter set up with only £100. At Southmead Hospital, Bristol, initial opposition from obstetricians lessened after quadruplets born there in 1948 were successfully cared for in the new unit.\n\nIncubators were expensive, so the whole room was often kept warm instead. Cross-infection between babies was greatly feared. Strict nursing routines involved staff wearing gowns and masks, constant hand-washing and minimal handling of babies. Parents were sometimes allowed to watch through the windows of the unit. Much was learned about feeding—frequent, tiny feeds seemed best—and breathing. Oxygen was given freely until the end of the 1950s, when it was shown that the high concentrations reached inside incubators caused some babies to go blind. Monitoring conditions in the incubator, and the baby itself, was to become a major area of research.\n\nThe 1960s were a time of rapid medical advances, particularly in respiratory support, that were at last making the survival of premature newborn babies a reality. Very few babies born before thirty two weeks survived and those who did often suffered neurological impairment. Herbert Barrie in London pioneered advances in resuscitation of the newborn. Barrie published his seminal paper on the subject in \"The Lancet\" in 1963. One of the concerns at this time was the worry that using high pressures of oxygen could be damaging to newborn lungs. Barrie developed an underwater safety valve in the oxygen circuit. The tubes were originally made of rubber, but these had the potential to cause irritation to sensitive newborn tracheas: Barrie switched to plastic. This new endotracheal tube, based on Barrie's design, was known as the ‘St Thomas’s tube’.\n\nMost early units had little equipment, providing only oxygen and warmth, and relied on careful nursing and observation. In later years, further research allowed technology to play a larger role in the decline of infant mortality. The development of pulmonary surfactant, which facilitates the oxygenation and ventilation of underdeveloped lungs, has been the most important development in neonatology to date.\n\nBy the 1970s, NICUs were an established part of hospitals in the developed world. In Britain, some early units ran community programmes, sending experienced nurses to help care for premature babies at home. But increasingly technological monitoring and therapy meant special care for babies became hospital-based. By the 1980s, over 90% of births took place in hospital. The emergency dash from home to the NICU with baby in a transport incubator had become a thing of the past, though transport incubators were still needed. Specialist equipment and expertise were not available at every hospital, and strong arguments were made for large, centralised NICUs. On the downside was the long travelling time for frail babies and for parents. A 1979 study showed that 20% of babies in NICUs for up to a week were never visited by either parent. Centralised or not, by the 1980s few questioned the role of NICUs in saving babies. Around 80% of babies born weighing less than 1.5 kg now survived, compared to around 40% in the 1960s. From 1982, pediatricians in Britain could train and qualify in the sub-specialty of neonatal medicine.\n\nNot only careful nursing but also new techniques and instruments now played a major role. As in adult intensive-care units, the use of monitoring and life-support systems became routine. These needed special modification for small babies, whose bodies were tiny and often immature. Adult ventilators, for example, could damage babies' lungs and gentler techniques with smaller pressure changes were devised. The many tubes and sensors used for monitoring the baby's condition, blood sampling and artificial feeding made some babies scarcely visible beneath the technology. Furthermore, by 1975, over 18% of newborn babies in Britain were being admitted to NICUs. Some hospitals admitted all babies delivered by Caesarian section or under 2500 g in weight. The fact that these babies missed early close contact with their mothers was a growing concern. The 1980s saw questions being raised about the human and economic costs of too much technology, and admission policies gradually became more conservative.\n\nNICUs now concentrate on treating very small, premature, or congenitally ill babies. Some of these babies are from higher-order multiple births, but most are still single babies born too early. Premature labour, and how to prevent it, remains a perplexing problem for doctors. Even though medical advancements allow doctors to save low-birth-weight babies, it is almost invariably better to delay such births.\n\nOver the last 10 years or so, SCBUs have become much more 'parent-friendly', encouraging maximum involvement with the babies. Routine gowns and masks are gone and parents are encouraged to help with care as much as possible. Cuddling and skin-to-skin contact, also known as Kangaroo care, are seen as beneficial for all but the frailest (very tiny babies are exhausted by the stimulus of being handled; or larger critically ill infants). Less stressful ways of delivering high-technology medicine to tiny patients have been devised: sensors to measure blood oxygen levels through the skin, for example; and ways of reducing the amount of blood taken for tests.\n\nSome major problems of the NICU have almost disappeared. Exchange transfusions, in which all the blood is removed and replaced, are rare now. Rhesus incompatibility (a difference in blood groups) between mother and baby is largely preventable, and was the most common cause for exchange transfusion in the past. However, breathing difficulties, intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing enterocolitis and infections still claim many infant lives and are the focus of many new and current research projects.\n\nThe long-term outlook for premature babies saved by NICUs has always been a concern. From the early years, it was reported that a higher proportion than normal grew up with disabilities, including cerebral palsy and learning difficulties. Now that treatments are available for many of the problems faced by tiny or immature babies in the first weeks of life, long-term follow-up, and minimising long-term disability, are major research areas.\n\nBesides prematurity and extreme low birth-weight, common diseases cared for in a NICU include perinatal asphyxia, major birth defects, sepsis, neonatal jaundice, and infant respiratory distress syndrome due to immaturity of the lungs. In general, the leading cause of death in NICUs is necrotizing enterocolitis. Complications of extreme prematurity may include intracranial hemorrhage, chronic bronchopulmonary dysplasia (see Infant respiratory distress syndrome), or retinopathy of prematurity. An infant may spend a day of observation in a NICU or may spend many months there.\n\nNeonatology and NICUs have greatly increased the survival of very low birth-weight and extremely premature infants. In the era before NICUs, infants of birth weight less than 1400 grams (3 lb, usually about 30 weeks gestation) rarely survived. Today, infants of 500 grams at 26 weeks have a fair chance of survival.\n\nThe NICU environment provides challenges as well as benefits. Stressors for the infants can include continual light, a high level of noise, separation from their mothers, reduced physical contact, painful procedures, and interference with the opportunity to breastfeed. A NICU can be stressful for the staff as well. A special aspect of NICU stress for both parents and staff is that infants may survive, but with damage to the brain, lungs or eyes.\n\nNICU rotations are essential aspects of pediatric and obstetric residency programs, but NICU experience is encouraged by other specialty residencies, such as family practice, surgery, pharmacy, and emergency medicine.\n\nAn incubator (or \"isolette\") is an apparatus used to maintain environmental conditions suitable for a neonate (newborn baby). It is used in preterm births or for some ill full-term babies.\n\nThere is additional equipment used to evaluate and treat sick neonates. These include:\n\nBlood pressure monitor: The blood pressure monitor is a machine that's connected to a small cuff which wrapped around the arm or leg of the patient. This cuff automatically takes the blood pressure and displays the data for review by providers.\n\nOxygen hood: This is a clear box that fits over the baby’s head and supplies oxygen. This is used for babies who can still breathe but need some respiratory support.\n\nVentilator: This is a breathing machine that delivers air to the lungs. Babies who are severely ill will receive this intervention. Typically, the ventilator takes the role of the lungs while treatment is administered to improve lung and circulatory function.\n\nPossible functions of a neonatal incubator are:\n\nA \"transport incubator\" is an incubator in a transportable form, and is used when a sick or premature baby is moved, e.g., from one hospital to another, as from a community hospital to a larger medical facility with a proper neonatal intensive-care unit. It usually has a miniature ventilator, cardio-respiratory monitor, IV pump, pulse oximeter, and oxygen supply built into its frame.\n\nCommon diagnoses and pathologies in the NICU include:\n\nThe concept of designations for hospital facilities that care for newborn infants according to the level of complexity of care provided was first proposed in the United States in 1976. Levels in the United States are designated by the guidelines published by the American Academy of Pediatrics In Britain, the guidelines are issued by The British Association of Perinatal Medicine (BAPM), and in Canada they are maintained by The Canadian Paediatric Society.\n\nNeonatal care is split into categories or “levels of care”. these levels apply to the type of care needed and is determined by the governing body of the area.\n\nIndia has 3-tier system based on weight and gestational age of neonate.\n\nNeonates weighing more than 1800 grams or having gestational maturity of 34 weeks or more are categorized under level I care. The care consists of basic care at birth, provision of warmth, maintaining asepsis and promotion of breastfeeding. This type of care can be given at home, subcenter and primary health centre.\n\nNeonates weighing 1200-1800 grams or having gestational maturity of 30–34 weeks are categorized under level II care and are looked after by trained nurses and pediatricians. The equipment and facilities used for this level of care include equipment for resuscitation, maintenance of thermoneutral environment, intravenous infusion, gavage feeding, phototherapy and exchange blood transfusion. This type of care can be given at first referral units, district hospitals, teaching institutions and nursing homes.\n\nNeonates weighing less than 1200 grams or having gestational maturity of less than 30 weeks are categorized under level III care. The care is provided at apex institutions and regional perinatal centers equipped with centralized oxygen and suction facilities, servo-controlled incubators, vital signs monitors, transcutaneous monitors, ventilators, infusion pumps etc. This type of care is provided by skilled nurses and neonatologists.\n\nThe terminology used in the United Kingdom can be confusing, because different criteria are used to designate 'special' and 'intensive' neonatal care locally and nationally.\n\nAlso known as 'Special Care Baby Units' (SCBU). These look after babies who need more care than healthy newborns but are relatively stable and mature. SCBU might provide tube-feeding, oxygen therapy, antibiotics to treat infection and phototherapy for jaundice. In a SCBU, a nurse can be assigned up to four babies to care for.\n\nAlso known as 'Local Neonatal Units', these can look after babies who need more advanced support such as parenteral nutrition and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Confusingly, they may also look after babies who need short-term intensive care such as mechanical ventilation. Babies who will need longer-term or more elaborate intensive care, for example extremely preterm infants, are usually transferred to a Level 3 unit.\nBabies in a Level 2 unit may be classified for nursing purposes as 'Special Care', 'High Dependency' (HDU) (in which a nurse will be assigned up to two babies) or 'Intensive care' (where nursing is one-to-one, or sometimes even two-to-one).\n\nAlso known as 'Neonatal Intensive Care Units' (NICU) - although Level 2 units may also have their own NICU. These look after the smallest, most premature and most unwell babies and often serve a large geographical region. Therapies such as prolonged mechanical ventilation, therapeutic hypothermia, neonatal surgery and inhaled nitric oxide are usually provided in Level 3 Units, although not every unit has access to all therapies..\nSome babies being cared for in Level 3 units will require less intensive treatment and will be looked after in HDU or SCBU nurseries on the same site.\n\nThe definition of a neonatal intensive-care unit (NICU) according to the National Center for Statistics is a \"hospital facility or unit staffed and equipped to provide continuous mechanical ventilatory support for a newborn infant\". In 2012, the American Academy of Pediatric updated their policy statement delineating the different levels of neonatal care. One major difference in the 2012 updated policy statement from the AAP compared to the 2004 policy statement is the removal of subspeciality nurseries for levels II and III with the addition of a level IV NICU. The four distinct levels of neonatal care defined in the most recent policy statement from the AAP are:\n\nLevel I units are typically referred to as the well baby nursery. Well newborn nurseries have the capability to provide neonatal resuscitation at every delivery; evaluate and provide postnatal care to healthy newborn infants; stabilize and provide care for infants born at 35 to 37 weeks’ gestation who remain physiologically stable; and stabilize newborn infants who are ill and those born less than 35 weeks’ gestation until transfer to a facility that can provide the appropriate level of neonatal care. Required provider types for well newborn nurseries include pediatricians, family physicians, nurse practitioners, and other advanced practice registered nurses.\n\nPreviously, Level II units were subdivided into 2 categories (level IIA & level IIB) on the basis of their ability to provide assisted ventilation including continuous positive airway pressure. Level II units are also known as special care nurseries and have all of the capabilities of a level I nursery. In addition to providing level I neonatal care, Level II units are able to:\n\nThe 2004 AAP guidelines subdivided Level III units into 3 categories (level IIIA, IIIB & IIIC). Level III units are required to have pediatric surgeons in addition to care providers required for level II (pediatric hospitalists, neonatologists, and neonatal nurse practitioners) and level I (pediatricians, family physicians, nurse practitioners, and other advanced practice registered nurses). Also, required provider types that must either be on site or at a closely related institution by prearranged consultative agreement include pediatric medical subspecialists, pediatric anesthesiologists, and pediatric ophthalmologists. In addition to providing the care and having the capabilities of level I and level II nurseries, level III neonatal intensive-care units are able to:\n\nThe highest level of neonatal care provided occurs at regional NICU's, or Level IV neonatal intensive-care units. Level IV units are required to have pediatric surgical subspecialists in addition to the care providers required for Level III units. Regional NICU's have all of the capabilities of Level I, II, and III units. In addition to providing the highest level of care, level IV NICU's:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6029894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6029894", "title": "Nobel Biocare", "text": "Nobel Biocare\n\nNobel Biocare is a company that manufactures dental implants and CAD/CAM-based individualized prosthetics and is headquartered in Kloten, Switzerland near the Zürich Airport. Nobel Biocare in its current form was founded in 2002. It originates in a partnership formed in 1978 between Swedish medical researcher Professor Per-Ingvar Brånemark and Bofors, a Swedish company, to industrialize Brånemark’s discovery of osseointegration (the fusing of titanium with bone).\n\nThe core business of the company is the manufacture of dental implants and related products used to treat tooth loss, such as abutments, crowns and bridges. The company also sells scanners and software for designing individualized, patient-specific prosthetics. Nobel Biocare also develops software for diagnostics and implant treatment planning, and produces customized, patient-specific, guided-surgery templates for implant placement surgeries. Since the legal training requirements for clinicians who carry out implant treatment vary from country to country, Nobel Biocare runs a training and education program for dental professionals in several countries.\n\nIn 1978, the Swedish health authorities approved the insertion of dental implants for clinical purposes, and Brånemark entered into a partnership with Bofors to industrialize his ideas and bring them to a broader market. A new company, Bofors Nobelpharma (later Nobelpharma), was founded in 1981 in Gothenburg, Sweden to commercialize Professor Brånemark’s findings. The company launched a number of new products including abutments, drilling equipment and an instrument kit. In 1982, Brånemark presented his results at the Toronto Conference on Osseointegration in Clinical Dentistry. In the same year, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the use of titanium dental implants in the United States. In 1983, Dr. Matts Andersson developed the Procera® System of high-precision, repeatable manufacturing of dental crowns. This was a fully automated method for the industrial CAD/CAM production of dental prosthetics. Nobelpharma acquired the new technology in 1988.\n\nAfter the FDA approval for titanium implants, in 1983, Nobelpharma USA Inc. was established. The company began selling the Brånemark System in the United States. Subsidiaries Nobelpharma Canada Inc. and Nobelpharma Japan Inc. were established in the same decade, along with other offshoots in France, Spain, Australia, Italy, Germany and the UK. The company made a profit for the first time in 1989. In this year, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare approved the Procera technique.\n\nAt the turn of the decade, osseointegration, as an observed process, was 25 years old. In 1990, Brånemark System was registered as a trademark in the US. In 1993, in need of further sources of funding to continue its expansion and growth plans, Nobelpharma was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in 1994. In 1996, the company changed its name to Nobel Biocare. Nobel Biocare acquired the American implant manufacturer Steri-Oss Inc. in 1998. In the later part of the decade, Nobel Biocare opened a manufacturing plant in Mahwah, New Jersey, USA.\n\nIn 2002, the company changed its organizational structure by establishing a domicile in Switzerland with a newly founded group parent company. The primary listing of the shares was changed to the SIX SwissExchange (in 2008, the listing at the OMX Exchange in Stockholm was discontinued). In 2014, Danaher Corporation bought Nobel Biocare and as of 2015 is no longer listed on the SIX SwissExchange.\n\nNobel Biocare is a market leader in offering solutions from root to tooth, covering dental implants, restorative components, CAD/CAM prosthetics, and biomaterials. Dental implants can replace single or multiple missing teeth. They are placed in a patient’s jaw bone to provide a fixation for any prosthetic add-on, such as a crown, similar to the way the root of a tooth provides firm anchoring. There are several implant types that differ in their shape with their use depending on patients’ medical treatment requirements and the clinician’s preference. Manufacturing plants for dental implants are based in Karlskoga (Sweden), Yorba Linda (USA) and Tel Aviv (Israel). Under the brand name NobelProcera, Nobel Biocare has a portfolio of dental prosthetic solutions and related components. Manufacturing plants for dental prosthetic solutions are based in Mahwah (USA) and Chiba (Japan). Nobel Biocare develops software for clinicians for diagnosing patients and planning treatments. In 2005, the company introduced guided surgery to the field of dental implantology.\n\n1. “Annual Report 2013” (PDF). Nobel Biocare\n\n2. Nobel Biocare rejects bone loss claims (English), The Local, December 16, 2005\n\n3. All clear for Nobel Biocare (English), The Local, February 7, 2006\n\n4. Danaher acquiers nobel biocare holding (English), The Local, September 15, 2014\n"}
{"id": "13088437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13088437", "title": "November Project", "text": "November Project\n\nThe November Project is a free, open-to-the-public exercise group founded in Boston, Massachusetts, in 2011. The name \"November Project\" comes from the Google Doc that the founders shared to track their progress in November 2011. While sessions occur year-round, the name stuck.\n\nFounded by Brogan Graham and Bojan Mandaric, both Northeastern crew alumni, the group was started as a way to keep working out through Boston's cold winter months. The pair made a pact to continue to meet at 6:30 am every day through the month of November.\n\nSince that original promise, the group has grown to hundreds of members who exercise multiple times a week in a number of cities around the United States, Canada, Asia and Europe. Membership is open and free to the general public. The group employs several recruiting strategies including a blog, a Facebook page, and a Twitter account, in addition to various media outlets including \"Runner's World\" magazine, the Boston Globe, and NPR.\n\nThe group selected specific locations within the city of Boston (as well as immediate communities such as Brookline and Cambridge) for its workouts. The standard locations include Harvard Stadium for its stairs, and Corey Hill Outlook Park (also known as \"Summit Ave.\") in Brookline. As of December 2017, the group can be found in 45 cities across the world.\n\n, November Project was active in 47 cities across the world:\n\nOver the years, November Project has worked alongside fitness brands, most notably New Balance and The North Face.\n\nIn July 2013, New Balance launched an advertising campaign centered around the fitness group. The campaign was titled \"Runnovation\" and focused on the shift in running from being a solitary sport to a social and group-based activity. “This campaign is built on the strong foundation that we, as a brand, have in driving and supporting innovation in the sport of running,” says Hilary Keates, New Balance director of global marketing and brand management.\n\nThe advertisements were placed in \"Men’s Journal\", \"Outside Magazine\", \"Running Times\", \"Women's Running\", \"Competitor\", \"Men’s Health\", and \"Women’s Health\".\n\nBeginning on March 31, 2015, The North Face and November Project launched jointly hosted workouts on Tuesday and Thursday evenings. The events are held under the name Mountain Athletics and primarily focus on strength training and conditioning.\n\nThe workouts are hosted in five cities in the U.S.: San Francisco, Washington D.C., New York, Chicago and Boston. \n"}
{"id": "8700786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8700786", "title": "Organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy", "text": "Organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy\n\nOrganophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN), also called organophosphate-induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP), is a neuropathy caused by killing of neurons in the central nervous system, especially in the spinal cord, as a result of acute or chronic organophosphate poisoning.\n\nA striking example of OPIDN occurred during the 1930s Prohibition Era when thousands of men in the American South and Midwest developed arm and leg weakness and pain after drinking a \"medicinal\" alcohol substitute. The drink, called \"Ginger Jake,\" contained an adulterated Jamaican ginger extract containing tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate (TOCP) which resulted in partially reversible neurologic damage. The damage resulted in the limping called \"jake paralysis\" – and also \"jake leg\" or \"jake walk\", which were terms frequently used in the blues music of the period. Europe and Morocco both experienced outbreaks of TOCP poisoning from contaminated abortifacients and cooking oil, respectively.\n\nThe disorder may contribute to the chronic multisymptom ilnesses of the Gulf War veterans.\n\nThe exact cause of the syndrome is unknown, although it has been associated with inhibition of patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 6 (PNPLA6, aka neuropathy target esterase). There is no specific treatment, and recovery is usually incomplete, affecting only sensory nervous system, while motor neutopathy persists.\n"}
{"id": "56645351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56645351", "title": "Our Shared Purpose", "text": "Our Shared Purpose\n\nOur Shared Purpose is a Catholic hospital network serving Toronto, Ontario, Canada, that was created as a result of merging St. Michael's Hospital with Providence Healthcare and St. Joseph's Health Centre. Our Shared Purpose is not the permanent, long-term name for the network. All three facilities in the network were founded by the Sisters of St. Joseph.\n\nTim Rutledge is the CEO.\n"}
{"id": "22228064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22228064", "title": "Parkinson's disease", "text": "Parkinson's disease\n\nParkinson's disease (PD) is a long-term degenerative disorder of the central nervous system that mainly affects the motor system. The symptoms generally come on slowly over time. Early in the disease, the most obvious are shaking, rigidity, slowness of movement, and difficulty with walking. Thinking and behavioral problems may also occur. Dementia becomes common in the advanced stages of the disease. Depression and anxiety are also common, occurring in more than a third of people with PD. Other symptoms include sensory, sleep, and emotional problems. The main motor symptoms are collectively called \"parkinsonism\", or a \"parkinsonian syndrome\".\nThe cause of Parkinson's disease is generally unknown, but believed to involve both genetic and environmental factors. Those with a family member affected are more likely to get the disease themselves. There is also an increased risk in people exposed to certain pesticides and among those who have had prior head injuries, while there is a reduced risk in tobacco smokers and those who drink coffee or tea. The motor symptoms of the disease result from the death of cells in the substantia nigra, a region of the midbrain. This results in not enough dopamine in these areas. The reason for this cell death is poorly understood, but involves the build-up of proteins into Lewy bodies in the neurons. Diagnosis of typical cases is mainly based on symptoms, with tests such as neuroimaging being used to rule out other diseases.\nThere is no cure for Parkinson's disease, with treatment directed at improving symptoms. Initial treatment is typically with the antiparkinson medication levodopa (L-DOPA), with dopamine agonists being used once levodopa becomes less effective. As the disease progresses and neurons continue to be lost, these medications become less effective while at the same time they produce a complication marked by involuntary writhing movements. Diet and some forms of rehabilitation have shown some effectiveness at improving symptoms. Surgery to place microelectrodes for deep brain stimulation has been used to reduce motor symptoms in severe cases where drugs are ineffective. Evidence for treatments for the non-movement-related symptoms of PD, such as sleep disturbances and emotional problems, is less strong.\nIn 2015, PD affected 6.2 million people and resulted in about 117,400 deaths globally. Parkinson's disease typically occurs in people over the age of 60, of which about one percent are affected. Males are more often affected than females at a ratio of around 3:2. When it is seen in people before the age of 50, it is called young-onset PD. The average life expectancy following diagnosis is between 7 and 14 years. The disease is named after the English doctor James Parkinson, who published the first detailed description in \"An Essay on the Shaking Palsy\", in 1817. Public awareness campaigns include World Parkinson's Day (on the birthday of James Parkinson, 11 April) and the use of a red tulip as the symbol of the disease. People with Parkinson's who have increased the public's awareness of the condition include actor Michael J. Fox, Olympic cyclist Davis Phinney, and late professional boxer Muhammad Ali.\nThe movement difficulties found in PD are called parkinsonism and a number of different disorders feature parkinsonism. \"Parkinsonism\" is defined as bradykinesia (slowness in initiating voluntary movements, with progressive reduction in speed and range of repetitive actions such as voluntary finger-tapping) in combination with one of three other physical signs: muscular (lead-pipe or cogwheel) rigidity, tremor at rest, and postural instability.\n\nParkinson's disease is the most common form of parkinsonism and is sometimes called \"idiopathic parkinsonism\", meaning parkinsonism with no identifiable cause. Identifiable causes of parkinsonism include toxins, infections, side effects of drugs, metabolic derangement, and brain lesions such as strokes. Several neurodegenerative disorders also may present with parkinsonism and are sometimes referred to as \"atypical parkinsonism\" or \"Parkinson plus\" syndromes (illnesses with parkinsonism plus some other features distinguishing them from PD). They include multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB).\n\nScientists sometimes refer to Parkinson’s disease as a synucleinopathy (due to an abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein protein in the brain) to distinguish it from other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease where the brain accumulates tau protein. Considerable clinical and pathological overlap exists between tauopathies and synucleinopathies. In contrast to Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease presents most commonly with memory loss, and the cardinal signs of Parkinson's disease (slowness, tremor, stiffness, and postural instability) are not normal features of Alzheimer's.\n\nDementia with Lewy bodies is another synucleinopathy and it has close pathological similarities with PD, especially with the subset of PD cases with dementia known as Parkinson's disease dementia. The relationship between PD and DLB is complex and incompletely understood. They may represent parts of a continuum with variable distinguishing clinical and pathological features or they may prove to be separate diseases.\n\nThe most recognizable symptoms in Parkinson's disease are movement (\"motor\") related. Non-motor symptoms, which include autonomic dysfunction, neuropsychiatric problems (mood, cognition, behavior or thought alterations), and sensory (especially altered sense of smell) and sleep difficulties, are also common. Some of these non-motor symptoms may be present at the time of diagnosis.\n\nFour motor symptoms are considered cardinal in PD: tremor, slowness of movement (bradykinesia), rigidity, and postural instability.\n\nThe most common presenting sign is a coarse slow tremor of the hand at rest which disappears during voluntary movement of the affected arm and in the deeper stages of sleep. It typically appears in only one hand, eventually affecting both hands as the disease progresses. Frequency of PD tremor is between 4 and 6 hertz (cycles per second). A feature of tremor is \"pill-rolling\", the tendency of the index finger and thumb to touch and perform together a circular movement. The term derives from the similarity between the movement of people with PD and the early pharmaceutical technique of manually making pills.\n\nBradykinesia (slowness of movement) is found in every case of PD, and is due to disturbances in motor planning of movement initiation, and associated with difficulties along the whole course of the movement process, from planning to initiation to execution of a movement. Performance of sequential and simultaneous movement is impaired. Bradykinesia is the most handicapping symptom of Parkinson’s disease leading to difficulties with everyday tasks such as dressing, feeding, and bathing. It leads to particular difficulty in carrying out two independent motor activities at the same time and can be made worse by emotional stress or concurrent illnesses. Paradoxically patients with Parkinson's disease can often ride a bicycle or climb stairs more easily than walk on a level. While most physicians may readily notice bradykinesia, formal assessment requires a patient to do repetitive movements with their fingers and feet.\n\nRigidity is stiffness and resistance to limb movement caused by increased muscle tone, an excessive and continuous contraction of muscles. In parkinsonism the rigidity can be uniform (\"lead-pipe rigidity\") or ratchety (\"cogwheel rigidity\"). The combination of tremor and increased tone is considered to be at the origin of cogwheel rigidity. Rigidity may be associated with joint pain; such pain being a frequent initial manifestation of the disease. In early stages of Parkinson's disease, rigidity is often asymmetrical and it tends to affect the neck and shoulder muscles prior to the muscles of the face and extremities. With the progression of the disease, rigidity typically affects the whole body and reduces the ability to move.\n\nPostural instability is typical in the later stages of the disease, leading to impaired balance and frequent falls, and secondarily to bone fractures, loss of confidence, and reduced mobility. Instability is often absent in the initial stages, especially in younger people, especially prior to the development of bilateral symptoms. Up to 40% of people diagnosed with PD may experience falls and around 10% may have falls weekly, with the number of falls being related to the severity of PD.\n\nOther recognized motor signs and symptoms include gait and posture disturbances such as festination (rapid shuffling steps and a forward-flexed posture when walking with no flexed arm swing). Freezing of gait (brief arrests when the feet seem to get stuck to the floor, especially on turning or changing direction), a slurred monotonous quiet voice, mask-like facial expression, and handwriting that gets smaller and smaller are other common signs.\n\nParkinson's disease can cause neuropsychiatric disturbances, which can range from mild to severe. This includes disorders of cognition, mood, behavior, and thought.\n\nCognitive disturbances can occur in the early stages of the disease and sometimes prior to diagnosis, and increase in prevalence with duration of the disease. The most common cognitive deficit in PD is executive dysfunction, which can include problems with planning, cognitive flexibility, abstract thinking, rule acquisition, inhibiting inappropriate actions, initiating appropriate actions, working memory, and control of attention. Other cognitive difficulties include slowed cognitive processing speed, impaired recall and impaired perception and estimation of time. Nevertheless, improvement appears when recall is aided by cues. Visuospatial difficulties are also part of the disease, seen for example when the individual is asked to perform tests of facial recognition and perception of the orientation of drawn lines.\n\nA person with PD has two to six times the risk of dementia compared to the general population. Up to 78% of people with PD have Parkinson's disease dementia. The prevalence of dementia increases with age and, to a lesser degree, duration of the disease. Dementia is associated with a reduced quality of life in people with PD and their caregivers, increased mortality, and a higher probability of needing nursing home care.\n\nImpulse control disorders including pathological gambling, compulsive sexual behavior, binge eating, compulsive shopping and reckless generosity can be caused by medication, particularly orally active dopamine agonists. The dopamine dysregulation syndrome – with wanting of medication leading to overusage – is a rare complication of levodopa use (Giovannoni, et al. 2000).\n\nBehavior and mood alterations are more common in PD without cognitive impairment than in the general population, and are usually present in PD with dementia. The most frequent mood difficulties are depression, apathy, and anxiety. Establishing the diagnosis of depression is complicated by the fact that the body language of depression may masquerade as PD including a sad expressionless anxious face, a hang dog appearance, slow movement, and monotonous speech. Up to 30% of people with PD may experience symptoms of anxiety, ranging from a generalized anxiety disorder to social phobia, panic disorders and obsessive compulsive disorders. They contribute to impaired quality of life and increased severity of motor symptoms such as on/off fluctuations or freezing episodes.\n\nPunding in which complicated repetitive aimless stereotyped behaviors occur for many hours is another disturbance caused by anti-Parkinson medication.\n\nHallucinations or delusions occur in approximately 50% of people with PD over the course of the illness, and may herald the emergence of dementia. These range from minor hallucinations – \"sense of passage\" (something quickly passing beside the person) or \"sense of presence\" (the perception of something/someone standing just to the side or behind the person) – to full blown vivid, formed visual hallucinations and paranoid ideation. Auditory hallucinations are uncommon in PD, and are rarely described as voices. It is now believed that psychosis is an integral part of the disease. A psychosis with delusions and associated delirium is a recognized complication of anti-Parkinson drug treatment and may also be caused by urinary tract infections (as frequently occurs in the fragile elderly), but drugs and infection are not the only factors, and underlying brain pathology or changes in neurotransmitters or their receptors (e.g., acetylcholine, serotonin) are also thought to play a role in psychosis in PD.\n\nIn addition to neuropsychiatric and motor symptoms, PD can impair other functions.\n\nSleep problems are a feature of the disease and can be worsened by medications. Symptoms can manifest as daytime drowsiness (including sudden sleep attacks resembling narcolepsy), disturbances in REM sleep, or insomnia. REM behavior disorder (RBD), in which patients act out dreams, sometimes injuring themselves or their bed partner, may begin many years before the development of motor or cognitive features of PD or DLB.\n\nAlterations in the autonomic nervous system can lead to orthostatic hypotension (low blood pressure upon standing), oily skin and excessive sweating, urinary incontinence, and altered sexual function. Constipation and impaired stomach emptying (gastric dysmotility) can be severe enough to cause discomfort and even endanger health. Changes in perception may include an impaired sense of smell, disturbed vision, pain, and paresthesia (tingling and numbness). All of these symptoms can occur years before diagnosis of the disease.\n\nExposure to pesticides and a history of head injury have each been linked with Parkinson disease (PD), but the risks are modest. Never having smoked cigarettes, and never drinking caffeinated beverages, are also associated with small increases in risk of developing PD.\n\nLow concentrations of urate in the blood serum is associated with an increased risk of PD.\n\nResearch indicates that PD is the product of a complex interaction of genetic and environmental factors. Around 15% of individuals with PD have a first-degree relative who has the disease, and 5–10% of people with PD are known to have forms of the disease that occur because of a mutation in one of several specific genes. Harboring one of these gene mutations may not lead to the disease; susceptibility factors put the individual at an increased risk, often in combination with other risk factors, which also affect age of onset, severity and progression.\n\nGenes implicated in the development of PD include SNCA, LRRK2, GBA, PRKN, PINK1, PARK7, VPS35, EIF4G1, DNAJC13 and CHCHD2.\n\nSNCA gene mutations are important in PD because the protein which this gene encodes, alpha-synuclein, is the main component of the Lewy bodies that accumulate in the brains of people with PD. Mutations in some genes, including SNCA, LRRK2 and GBA, have been found to be risk factors for \"sporadic\" (non-familial) PD. Mutations in the gene LRRK2 are the most common known cause of familial and sporadic PD, accounting for approximately 5% of individuals with a family history of the disease and 3% of sporadic cases. A mutation in GBA presents the greatest genetic risk of developing Parkinsons disease.\n\nSeveral Parkinson-related genes are involved in the function of lysosomes, organelles that digest cellular waste products. It has been suggested that some cases of PD may be caused by lysosome dysfunctions that reduce the ability of cells to break down alpha-synuclein.\n\nThe main pathological characteristics of PD are cell death in the brain's basal ganglia (affecting up to 70% of the dopamine secreting neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta by the end of life) and the presence of Lewy bodies (accumulations of the protein alpha-synuclein) in many of the remaining neurons. This loss of neurons is accompanied by the death of astrocytes (star-shaped glial cells) and a significant increase in the number of microglia (another type of glial cell) in the substantia nigra.\n\nThere are five major pathways in the brain connecting other brain areas with the basal ganglia. These are known as the motor, oculo-motor, associative, limbic and orbitofrontal circuits, with names indicating the main projection area of each circuit. All of them are affected in PD, and their disruption explains many of the symptoms of the disease, since these circuits are involved in a wide variety of functions, including movement, attention and learning. Scientifically, the motor circuit has been examined the most intensively.\n\nA particular conceptual model of the motor circuit and its alteration with PD has been of great influence since 1980, although some limitations have been pointed out which have led to modifications. In this model, the basal ganglia normally exert a constant inhibitory influence on a wide range of motor systems, preventing them from becoming active at inappropriate times. When a decision is made to perform a particular action, inhibition is reduced for the required motor system, thereby releasing it for activation. Dopamine acts to facilitate this release of inhibition, so high levels of dopamine function tend to promote motor activity, while low levels of dopamine function, such as occur in PD, demand greater exertions of effort for any given movement. Thus, the net effect of dopamine depletion is to produce hypokinesia, an overall reduction in motor output. Drugs that are used to treat PD, conversely, may produce excessive dopamine activity, allowing motor systems to be activated at inappropriate times and thereby producing dyskinesias.\n\nThere is speculation of several mechanisms by which the brain cells could be lost. One mechanism consists of an abnormal accumulation of the protein alpha-synuclein bound to ubiquitin in the damaged cells. This insoluble protein accumulates inside neurones forming inclusions called Lewy bodies. According to the Braak staging, a classification of the disease based on pathological findings proposed by Heiko Braak, Lewy bodies first appear in the olfactory bulb, medulla oblongata and pontine tegmentum; individuals at this stage may be asymptomatic or may have early non-motor symptoms (such as loss of sense of smell, or some sleep or automatic dysfunction). As the disease progresses, Lewy bodies develop in the substantia nigra, areas of the midbrain and basal forebrain and, finally, the neocortex. These brain sites are the main places of neuronal degeneration in PD; however, Lewy bodies may not cause cell death and they may be protective (with the abnormal protein sequestered or walled off). Other forms of alpha-synuclein (e.g., oligomers) that are not aggregated in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites may actually be the toxic forms of the protein. In people with dementia, a generalized presence of Lewy bodies is common in cortical areas. Neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques, characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, are not common unless the person is demented.\n\nOther cell-death mechanisms include proteasomal and lysosomal system dysfunction and reduced mitochondrial activity. Iron accumulation in the substantia nigra is typically observed in conjunction with the protein inclusions. It may be related to oxidative stress, protein aggregation and neuronal death, but the mechanisms are not fully understood.\n\nA physician will initially assess for Parkinson's disease with a careful medical history and neurological examination. People may be given levodopa, with any resulting improvement in motor impairment helping to confirm the PD diagnosis. The finding of Lewy bodies in the midbrain on autopsy is usually considered final proof that the person had PD. The clinical course of the illness over time may reveal it is not Parkinson's disease, requiring that the clinical presentation be periodically reviewed to confirm accuracy of the diagnosis.\n\nOther causes that can secondarily produce parkinsonism are stroke and drugs. Parkinson plus syndromes such as progressive supranuclear palsy and multiple system atrophy must be ruled out. Anti-Parkinson's medications are typically less effective at controlling symptoms in Parkinson plus syndromes. Faster progression rates, early cognitive dysfunction or postural instability, minimal tremor or symmetry at onset may indicate a Parkinson plus disease rather than PD itself. Genetic forms with an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern of inheritance are sometimes referred to as familial Parkinson's disease or familial parkinsonism.\n\nMedical organizations have created diagnostic criteria to ease and standardize the diagnostic process, especially in the early stages of the disease. The most widely known criteria come from the UK Queen Square Brain Bank for Neurological Disorders and the U.S. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. The Queen Square Brain Bank criteria require slowness of movement (bradykinesia) plus either rigidity, resting tremor, or postural instability. Other possible causes of these symptoms need to be ruled out. Finally, three or more of the following supportive features are required during onset or evolution: unilateral onset, tremor at rest, progression in time, asymmetry of motor symptoms, response to levodopa for at least five years, clinical course of at least ten years and appearance of dyskinesias induced by the intake of excessive levodopa.\n\nWhen PD diagnoses are checked by autopsy, movement disorders experts are found on average to be 79.6% accurate at initial assessment and 83.9% accurate after they have refined their diagnosis at a follow-up examination. When clinical diagnoses performed mainly by nonexperts are checked by autopsy, average accuracy is 73.8%. Overall, 80.6% of PD diagnoses are accurate, and 82.7% of diagnoses using the Brain Bank criteria are accurate.\n\nA task force of the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society (MDS) has proposed diagnostic criteria for Parkinson’s disease as well as research criteria for the diagnosis of prodromal disease, but these will require validation against the more established criteria.\n\nComputed tomography (CT) scans of people with PD usually appear normal. MRI has become more accurate in diagnosis of the disease over time, specifically through iron-sensitive T2* and SWI sequences at a magnetic field strength of at least 3T, both of which can demonstrate absence of the characteristic 'swallow tail' imaging pattern in the dorsolateral substantia nigra. In a meta-analysis, absence of this pattern was 98% sensitive and 95% specific for the disease. Diffusion MRI has shown potential in distinguishing between PD and Parkinson plus syndromes, though its diagnostic value is still under investigation. CT and MRI are also used to rule out other diseases that can be secondary causes of parkinsonism, most commonly encephalitis and chronic ischemic insults, as well as less frequent entities such as basal ganglia tumors and hydrocephalus.\n\nDopamine-related activity in the basal ganglia can be directly measured with PET and SPECT scans. A finding of reduced dopamine-related activity in the basal ganglia can rule out drug-induced parkinsonism, but reduced basal ganglia dopamine-related activity is seen in both PD and the Parkinson-plus disorders so these scans are not reliable in distinguishing PD from other neurodegenerative causes of parkinsonism.\n\nExercise in middle age may reduce the risk of Parkinson's disease later in life. Caffeine also appears protective with a greater decrease in risk occurring with a larger intake of caffeinated beverages such as coffee. People who smoke cigarettes or use smokeless tobacco are less likely than non-smokers to develop PD, and the more they have used tobacco, the less likely they are to develop PD. It is not known what underlies this effect. Tobacco use may actually protect against PD, or it may be that an unknown factor both increases the risk of PD and causes an aversion to tobacco or makes it easier to quit using tobacco.\n\nAntioxidants, such as vitamins C and E, have been proposed to protect against the disease, but results of studies have been contradictory and no positive effect has been proven. The results regarding fat and fatty acids have been contradictory, with various studies reporting protective effects, risk-increasing effects or no effects. There have been preliminary indications that the use of anti-inflammatory drugs and calcium channel blockers may be protective. A 2010 meta-analysis found that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (apart from aspirin), have been associated with at least a 15 percent (higher in long-term and regular users) reduction of incidence of the development of Parkinson's disease.\n\nThere is no cure for Parkinson's disease, but medications, surgery, and physical treatment can provide relief and are much more effective than treatments available for other neurological disorders like Alzheimer’s disease, motor neuron disease, and Parkinson plus syndromes. The main families of drugs useful for treating motor symptoms are levodopa (always combined with a dopa decarboxylase inhibitor and sometimes also with a COMT inhibitor), dopamine agonists and MAO-B inhibitors. The stage of the disease and the age at disease onset determine which group is most useful.\n\nThree stages may be distinguished: an initial stage in which the individual with PD has already developed some disability requiring pharmacological treatment, a second stage associated with the development of complications related to levodopa usage, and a third stage when symptoms unrelated to dopamine deficiency or levodopa treatment may predominate.\n\nTreatment in the first stage aims for an optimal trade off between symptom control and treatment side-effects. The start of levodopa treatment may be postponed by initially using other medications such as MAO-B inhibitors and dopamine agonists instead, in the hope of delaying the onset of complications due to levodopa use. However, levodopa is still the most effective treatment for the motor symptoms of PD and should not be delayed in patients whose quality of life is impaired by those symptoms. Levodopa-related dyskinesias correlate more strongly with duration and severity of the disease than duration of levodopa treatment, so delaying this therapy may not really provide much longer dyskinesia-free time than early use.\n\nIn the second stage the aim is to reduce PD symptoms while controlling fluctuations in the effect of the medication. Sudden withdrawals from medication or overuse have to be managed. When oral medications are not enough to control symptoms, surgery, deep brain stimulation, subcutaneous waking day apomorphine infusion and enteral dopa pumps can be of use. The third stage presents many challenging problems requiring a variety of treatments for psychiatric symptoms, orthostatic hypotension, bladder dysfunction, etc. In the final stages of the disease, palliative care is provided to improve quality of life.\n\nThe motor symptoms of PD are the result of reduced dopamine production in the brain's basal ganglia. Dopamine does not cross the blood-brain barrier, so it cannot be taken as a medicine to boost the brain's depleted levels of dopamine. However a precursor of dopamine, levodopa, can pass through to the brain where it is readily converted to dopamine, and administration of levodopa temporarily diminishes the motor symptoms of PD. Levodopa has been the most widely used PD treatment for over 40 years.\n\nOnly 5–10% of levodopa crosses the blood–brain barrier. Much of the remainder is metabolized to dopamine elsewhere in the body, causing a variety of side effects including nausea, vomiting and orthostatic hypotension. Carbidopa and benserazide are dopa decarboxylase inhibitors which do not cross the blood-brain barrier and inhibit the conversion of levodopa to dopamine outside the brain, reducing side effects and improving the availability of levodopa for passage into the brain. One of these drugs is usually taken along with levodopa, often combined with levodopa in the same pill.\n\nLevodopa use leads in the long term to the development of complications: involuntary movements called dyskinesias, and fluctuations in the effectiveness of the medication. When fluctuations occur, a person can cycle through phases with good response to medication and reduced PD symptoms (\"on\" state), and phases with poor response to medication and significant PD symptoms (\"off\" state). Using lower doses of levodopa may reduce the risk and severity of these levodopa-induced complications. A former strategy to reduce levodopa-related dyskinesia and fluctuations was to withdraw levodopa medication for some time. This is now discouraged since it can bring on dangerous side effects such as neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Most people with PD will eventually need levodopa and will later develop levodopa-induced fluctuations and dyskinesias.\n\nThere are controlled-release versions of levodopa. Older controlled-release levodopa preparations have poor and unreliable absorption and bioavailability and have not demonstrated improved control of PD motor symptoms or a reduction in levodopa-related complications when compared to immediate release preparations. A newer extended-release levodopa preparation does seem to be more effective in reducing fluctuations but in many patients problems persist. Intestinal infusions of levodopa (Duodopa) can result in striking improvements in fluctuations compared to oral levodopa when the fluctuations are due to insufficient uptake caused by gastroparesis. Other oral, longer acting formulations are under study and other modes of delivery (inhaled, transdermal) are being developed.\n\nTolcapone inhibits the activity COMT, an enzyme which degrades dopamine. It has been used to complement levodopa; however, its usefulness is limited by possible complications such as liver damage. A similarly effective drug, entacapone, has not been shown to cause significant alterations of liver function. Licensed preparations of entacapone contain entacapone alone or in combination with carbidopa and levodopa.\n\nSeveral dopamine agonists that bind to dopamine receptors in the brain have similar effects to levodopa. These were initially used as a complementary therapy to levodopa for individuals experiencing levodopa complications (on-off fluctuations and dyskinesias); they are now mainly used on their own as first therapy for the motor symptoms of PD with the aim of delaying the initiation of levodopa therapy and so delaying the onset of levodopa's complications. Dopamine agonists include bromocriptine, pergolide, pramipexole, ropinirole, piribedil, cabergoline, apomorphine and lisuride.\n\nThough dopamine agonists are less effective than levodopa at controlling PD motor symptoms, they are usually effective enough to manage these symptoms in the first years of treatment. Dyskinesias due to dopamine agonists are rare in younger people who have PD but, along with other complications, become more common with older age at onset. Thus dopamine agonists are the preferred initial treatment for younger onset PD, and levodopa is preferred for older onset PD.\n\nDopamine agonists produce significant, although usually mild, side effects including drowsiness, hallucinations, insomnia, nausea, and constipation. Sometimes side effects appear even at a minimal clinically effective dose, leading the physician to search for a different drug. Agonists have been related to impulse control disorders (such as compulsive sexual activity, eating, gambling and shopping) even more strongly than levodopa. They tend to be more expensive than levodopa.\n\nApomorphine, a non-orally administered dopamine agonist, may be used to reduce off periods and dyskinesia in late PD. It is administered by intermittent injections or continuous subcutaneous infusions. Since secondary effects such as confusion and hallucinations are common, individuals receiving apomorphine treatment should be closely monitored. Two dopamine agonists that are administered through skin patches (lisuride and rotigotine) and are useful for people in the initial stages and possibly to control off states in those in the advanced state.\n\nMAO-B inhibitors (safinamide, selegiline and rasagiline) increase the amount of dopamine in the basal ganglia by inhibiting the activity of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), an enzyme which breaks down dopamine. Like dopamine agonists, their use may delay the commencement of levodopa therapy in early disease, but MAO-B inhibitors produce more adverse effects and are less effective than levodopa at controlling PD motor symptoms. There are few studies of their effectiveness in the advanced stage, although results suggest that they are useful to reduce fluctuations between on and off periods. An initial study indicated that selegiline in combination with levodopa increased the risk of death, but this was later disproven.\n\nOther drugs such as amantadine and anticholinergics may be useful as treatment of motor symptoms. However, the evidence supporting them lacks quality, so they are not first choice treatments. In addition to motor symptoms, PD is accompanied by a diverse range of symptoms. A number of drugs have been used to treat some of these problems. Examples are the use of quetiapine for psychosis, cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia, and modafinil for daytime sleepiness. In 2016 pimavanserin was approved for the management of Parkinson's disease psychosis.\n\nDoxepin and rasagline may reduce physical fatigue in PD.\n\nTreating motor symptoms with surgery was once a common practice, but since the discovery of levodopa, the number of operations has declined. Studies in the past few decades have led to great improvements in surgical techniques, so that surgery is again being used in people with advanced PD for whom drug therapy is no longer sufficient. Surgery for PD can be divided in two main groups: lesional and deep brain stimulation (DBS). Target areas for DBS or lesions include the thalamus, the globus pallidus or the subthalamic nucleus. Deep brain stimulation is the most commonly used surgical treatment, developed in the 1980s by Alim Louis Benabid and others. It involves the implantation of a medical device called a neurostimulator, which sends electrical impulses to specific parts of the brain. DBS is recommended for people who have PD with motor fluctuations and tremor inadequately controlled by medication, or to those who are intolerant to medication, as long as they do not have severe neuropsychiatric problems. Other, less common, surgical therapies involve intentional formation of lesions to suppress overactivity of specific subcortical areas. For example, pallidotomy involves surgical destruction of the globus pallidus to control dyskinesia.\n\nExercise programs are recommended in people with Parkinson's disease. There is some evidence that speech or mobility problems can improve with rehabilitation, although studies are scarce and of low quality. Regular physical exercise with or without physical therapy can be beneficial to maintain and improve mobility, flexibility, strength, gait speed, and quality of life. When an exercise program is performed under the supervision of a physiotherapist, there are more improvements in motor symptoms, mental and emotional functions, daily living activities, and quality of life compared to a self-supervised exercise program at home. In terms of improving flexibility and range of motion for people experiencing rigidity, generalized relaxation techniques such as gentle rocking have been found to decrease excessive muscle tension. Other effective techniques to promote relaxation include slow rotational movements of the extremities and trunk, rhythmic initiation, diaphragmatic breathing, and meditation techniques. As for gait and addressing the challenges associated with the disease such as hypokinesia (slowness of movement), shuffling and decreased arm swing; physiotherapists have a variety of strategies to improve functional mobility and safety. Areas of interest with respect to gait during rehabilitation programs focus on, but are not limited to improving gait speed, the base of support, stride length, trunk and arm swing movement. Strategies include utilizing assistive equipment (pole walking and treadmill walking), verbal cueing (manual, visual and auditory), exercises (marching and PNF patterns) and altering environments (surfaces, inputs, open vs. closed). Strengthening exercises have shown improvements in strength and motor function for people with primary muscular weakness and weakness related to inactivity with mild to moderate Parkinson's disease. However, reports show a significant interaction between strength and the time the medications was taken. Therefore, it is recommended that people with PD should perform exercises 45 minutes to one hour after medications when they are at their best. Also, due to the forward flexed posture, and respiratory dysfunctions in advanced Parkinson's disease, deep diaphragmatic breathing exercises are beneficial in improving chest wall mobility and vital capacity. Exercise may improve constipation. It is unclear if exercise reduces physical fatigue in PD.\n\nOne of the most widely practiced treatments for speech disorders associated with Parkinson's disease is the Lee Silverman voice treatment (LSVT). Speech therapy and specifically LSVT may improve speech. Occupational therapy (OT) aims to promote health and quality of life by helping people with the disease to participate in as many of their daily living activities as possible. There have been few studies on the effectiveness of OT and their quality is poor, although there is some indication that it may improve motor skills and quality of life for the duration of the therapy.\n\nPalliative care is specialized medical care for people with serious illnesses, including Parkinson's. The goal of this speciality is to improve quality of life for both the person with Parkinson's and the family by providing relief from the symptoms, pain, and stress of illnesses. As Parkinson's is not a curable disease, all treatments are focused on slowing decline and improving quality of life, and are therefore palliative in nature.\n\nPalliative care should be involved earlier, rather than later in the disease course. Palliative care specialists can help with physical symptoms, emotional factors such as loss of function and jobs, depression, fear, and existential concerns.\n\nAlong with offering emotional support to both the patient and family, palliative care serves an important role in addressing goals of care. People with Parkinson's may have many difficult decisions to make as the disease progresses such as wishes for feeding tube, non-invasive ventilator, and tracheostomy; wishes for or against cardiopulmonary resuscitation; and when to use hospice care. Palliative care team members can help answer questions and guide people with Parkinson's on these complex and emotional topics to help them make the best decision based on their own values.\n\nMuscles and nerves that control the digestive process may be affected by PD, resulting in constipation and gastroparesis (food remaining in the stomach for a longer period than normal). A balanced diet, based on periodical nutritional assessments, is recommended and should be designed to avoid weight loss or gain and minimize consequences of gastrointestinal dysfunction. As the disease advances, swallowing difficulties (dysphagia) may appear. In such cases it may be helpful to use thickening agents for liquid intake and an upright posture when eating, both measures reducing the risk of choking. Gastrostomy to deliver food directly into the stomach is possible in severe cases.\n\nLevodopa and proteins use the same transportation system in the intestine and the blood–brain barrier, thereby competing for access. When they are taken together, this results in a reduced effectiveness of the drug. Therefore, when levodopa is introduced, excessive protein consumption is discouraged and well balanced Mediterranean diet is recommended. In advanced stages, additional intake of low-protein products such as bread or pasta is recommended for similar reasons. To minimize interaction with proteins, levodopa should be taken 30 minutes before meals. At the same time, regimens for PD restrict proteins during breakfast and lunch, allowing protein intake in the evening.\n\nPD invariably progresses with time. A severity rating method known as the Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS) is the most commonly used metric for clinical study. A modified version known as the MDS-UPDRS is also sometimes used. An older scaling method known as the Hoehn and Yahr scale (originally published in 1967), and a similar scale known as the Modified Hoehn and Yahr scale, have also been commonly used. The Hoehn and Yahr scale defines five basic stages of progression.\n\nMotor symptoms, if not treated, advance aggressively in the early stages of the disease and more slowly later. Untreated, individuals are expected to lose independent ambulation after an average of eight years and be bedridden after ten years. However, it is uncommon to find untreated people nowadays. Medication has improved the prognosis of motor symptoms, while at the same time it is a new source of disability, because of the undesired effects of levodopa after years of use. In people taking levodopa, the progression time of symptoms to a stage of high dependency from caregivers may be over 15 years. However, it is hard to predict what course the disease will take for a given individual. Age is the best predictor of disease progression. The rate of motor decline is greater in those with less impairment at the time of diagnosis, while cognitive impairment is more frequent in those who are over 70 years of age at symptom onset.\n\nSince current therapies improve motor symptoms, disability at present is mainly related to non-motor features of the disease. Nevertheless, the relationship between disease progression and disability is not linear. Disability is initially related to motor symptoms. As the disease advances, disability is more related to motor symptoms that do not respond adequately to medication, such as swallowing/speech difficulties, and gait/balance problems; and also to levodopa-induced complications, which appear in up to 50% of individuals after 5 years of levodopa usage. Finally, after ten years most people with the disease have autonomic disturbances, sleep problems, mood alterations and cognitive decline. All of these symptoms, especially cognitive decline, greatly increase disability.\n\nThe life expectancy of people with PD is reduced. Mortality ratios are around twice those of unaffected people. Cognitive decline and dementia, old age at onset, a more advanced disease state and presence of swallowing problems are all mortality risk factors. On the other hand, a disease pattern mainly characterized by tremor as opposed to rigidity predicts an improved survival. Death from aspiration pneumonia is twice as common in individuals with PD as in the healthy population.\n\nIn 2013 PD resulted in about 103,000 deaths globally, up from 44,000 deaths in 1990. The death rate increased from an average of 1.5 to 1.8 per 100,000 during that time.\n\nPD is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease and affects approximately seven million people globally and one million people in the United States. The proportion in a population at a given time is about 0.3% in industrialized countries. PD is more common in the elderly and rates rise from 1% in those over 60 years of age to 4% of the population over 80. The mean age of onset is around 60 years, although 5–10% of cases, classified as young onset PD, begin between the ages of 20 and 50. Males are more often affected than females at a ratio of around 3:2. PD may be less prevalent in those of African and Asian ancestry, although this finding is disputed. Some studies have proposed that it is more common in men than women, but others failed to detect any differences between the two sexes. The number of new cases per year of PD is between 8 and 18 per 100,000 person–years.\n\nMany risk factors and protective factors have been proposed, sometimes in relation to theories concerning possible mechanisms of the disease, however, none have been conclusively related to PD by empirical evidence. When epidemiological studies have been carried out in order to test the relationship between a given factor and PD, they have often been flawed and their results have in some cases been contradictory. The most frequently replicated relationships are an increased risk of PD in those exposed to pesticides, and a reduced risk in smokers.\n\nSeveral early sources, including an Egyptian papyrus, an Ayurvedic medical treatise, the Bible, and Galen's writings, describe symptoms resembling those of PD. After Galen there are no references unambiguously related to PD until the 17th century. In the 17th and 18th centuries, several authors wrote about elements of the disease, including Sylvius, Gaubius, Hunter and Chomel.\n\nIn 1817 an English doctor, James Parkinson, published his essay reporting six cases of paralysis agitans. \"An Essay on the Shaking Palsy\" described the characteristic resting tremor, abnormal posture and gait, paralysis and diminished muscle strength, and the way that the disease progresses over time. Early neurologists who made further additions to the knowledge of the disease include Trousseau, Gowers, Kinnier Wilson and Erb, and most notably Jean-Martin Charcot, whose studies between 1868 and 1881 were a landmark in the understanding of the disease. Among other advances, he made the distinction between rigidity, weakness and bradykinesia. He also championed the renaming of the disease in honor of James Parkinson.\n\nIn 1912 Frederic Lewy described microscopic particles in affected brains, later named \"Lewy bodies\". In 1919 Konstantin Tretiakoff reported that the substantia nigra was the main cerebral structure affected, but this finding was not widely accepted until it was confirmed by further studies published by Rolf Hassler in 1938. The underlying biochemical changes in the brain were identified in the 1950s, due largely to the work of Arvid Carlsson on the neurotransmitter dopamine and Oleh Hornykiewicz on its role on PD. In 1997, alpha-synuclein was found to be the main component of Lewy bodies by Spillantini, Trojanowski, Goedert and others.\n\nAnticholinergics and surgery (lesioning of the corticospinal pathway or some of the basal ganglia structures) were the only treatments until the arrival of levodopa, which reduced their use dramatically. Levodopa was first synthesized in 1911 by Casimir Funk, but it received little attention until the mid 20th century. It entered clinical practice in 1967 and brought about a revolution in the management of PD. By the late 1980s deep brain stimulation introduced by Alim Louis Benabid and colleagues at Grenoble, France, emerged as a possible treatment.\n\nThe costs of PD to society are high, but precise calculations are difficult due to methodological issues in research and differences between countries. The annual cost in the UK is estimated to be between 49 million and 3.3 billion, while the cost per patient per year in the U.S. is probably around 10,000 and the total burden around 23 billion. The largest share of direct cost comes from inpatient care and nursing homes, while the share coming from medication is substantially lower. Indirect costs are high, due to reduced productivity and the burden on caregivers. In addition to economic costs, PD reduces quality of life of those with the disease and their caregivers.\n\n11 April, the birthday of James Parkinson, has been designated as World Parkinson's Day. A red tulip was chosen by international organizations as the symbol of the disease in 2005: it represents the James Parkinson Tulip cultivar, registered in 1981 by a Dutch horticulturalist. Advocacy organizations include the National Parkinson Foundation, which has provided more than $180 million in care, research and support services since 1982, Parkinson's Disease Foundation, which has distributed more than $115 million for research and nearly $50 million for education and advocacy programs since its founding in 1957 by William Black; the American Parkinson Disease Association, founded in 1961; and the European Parkinson's Disease Association, founded in 1992.\n\nActor Michael J. Fox has PD and has greatly increased the public awareness of the disease. After diagnosis, Fox embraced his Parkinson's in television roles, sometimes acting without medication, in order to further illustrate the effects of the condition. He has written two autobiographies in which his fight against the disease plays a major role, and appeared before the United States Congress without medication to illustrate the effects of the disease. The Michael J. Fox Foundation aims to develop a cure for Parkinson's disease. Fox received an honorary doctorate in medicine from Karolinska Institutet for his contributions to research in Parkinson's disease.\n\nProfessional cyclist and Olympic medalist Davis Phinney, who was diagnosed with young onset Parkinson's at age 40, started the Davis Phinney Foundation in 2004 to support Parkinson's research, focusing on quality of life for people with the disease.\n\nBoxer Muhammad Ali showed signs of Parkinson's when he was 38, but was not diagnosed until he was 42, and has been called the \"world's most famous Parkinson's patient\". Whether he had PD or parkinsonism related to boxing is unresolved.\n\nThere is little prospect of significant new PD treatments in the near future. Currently active research directions include the search for new animal models of the disease and studies of the potential usefulness of gene therapy, stem cell transplants and neuroprotective agents.\n\nPD is not known to occur naturally in any species other than humans, although animal models which show some features of the disease are used in research. The appearance of parkinsonism in a group of drug addicts in the early 1980s who consumed a contaminated batch of the synthetic opiate MPPP led to the discovery of the chemical MPTP as an agent that causes parkinsonism in non-human primates as well as in humans. Other predominant toxin-based models employ the insecticide rotenone, the herbicide paraquat and the fungicide maneb. Models based on toxins are most commonly used in primates. Transgenic rodent models that replicate various aspects of PD have been developed. Using the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, also known as 6-OHDA, it creates a model of Parkinson's disease in rats by targeting and destroying dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway when injected into the substantia nigra.\n\nGene therapy typically involves the use of a non-infectious virus (i.e., a viral vector such as the adeno-associated virus) to shuttle genetic material into a part of the brain. The gene used leads to the production of an enzyme that helps to manage PD symptoms or protects the brain from further damage. In 2010 there were four clinical trials using gene therapy in PD. There have not been important adverse effects in these trials although the clinical usefulness of gene therapy is still unknown. One of these reported positive results in 2011, but the company filed for bankruptcy in March 2012.\n\nInvestigations on neuroprotection are at the forefront of PD research. Several molecules have been proposed as potential treatments. However, none of them have been conclusively demonstrated to reduce degeneration. Agents currently under investigation include anti-apoptotics (omigapil, CEP-1347), antiglutamatergics, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (selegiline, rasagiline), promitochondrials (coenzyme Q10, creatine), calcium channel blockers (isradipine) and growth factors (GDNF). Preclinical research also targets alpha-synuclein. A vaccine that primes the human immune system to destroy alpha-synuclein, PD01A (developed by Austrian company, Affiris), has entered clinical trials in humans.\n\nSince early in the 1980s, fetal, porcine, carotid or retinal tissues have been used in cell transplants, in which dissociated cells are injected into the substantia nigra in the hope that they will incorporate themselves into the brain in a way that replaces the dopamine-producing cells that have been lost. Although there was initial evidence of mesencephalic dopamine-producing cell transplants being beneficial, double-blind trials to date indicate that cell transplants produce no long-term benefit. An additional significant problem was the excess release of dopamine by the transplanted tissue, leading to dystonias. Stem cell transplants are a recent research target, because stem cells are easy to manipulate and stem cells transplanted into the brains of rodents and monkeys have been found to survive and reduce behavioral abnormalities. Nevertheless, use of fetal stem cells is controversial. It has been proposed that effective treatments may be developed in a less controversial way by use of induced pluripotent stem cells taken from adults.\n\nRepetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation temporarily improves levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Its usefulness in PD is an open research topic, Several nutrients have been proposed as possible treatments; however there is no evidence that vitamins or food additives improve symptoms. There is no evidence to substantiate that acupuncture and practice of Qigong, or T'ai chi, have any effect on the course of the disease or symptoms. Fava beans and velvet beans are natural sources of levodopa and are eaten by many people with PD; their intake is not free of risks as life-threatening adverse reactions have been described, such as the neuroleptic malignant syndrome.\n\nThe role of the gut–brain axis and the gut flora in Parkinsons became a topic of study in the 2010s, starting with work in germ-free transgenic mice, in which fecal transplants from people with PD had worse outcomes. Some studies in humans have shown a correlation between patterns of dysbiosis in the gut flora in the people with PD, and these patterns, along with a measure of severity of constipation, could diagnose PD with a 90% specificity but only a 67% sensitivity. As of 2017 some scientists hypothesized that changes in the gut flora might be an early site of PD pathology, or might be part of the pathology. \n"}
{"id": "57179364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57179364", "title": "Participatient", "text": "Participatient\n\nParticipatient is an academic project in the Netherland to use eHealth to involve patients in decision making during their stay. This project started at Dutch Hacking Health (DHH) and obtained the 2016 DHH national prize under the name 'Bedpartner'.\n\nThe current app has modules with information on the ward and the admission, pain medication, and urinary catheter use, with the goal to give patients the option to participate and make the hospital stay safer and more pleasant.\nThe app is designed to encourage communication and awareness in patients and medical staff. This will be evaluated in the PECCA project (Patient Engagement Counter CAUTI with an App), supported by the Netherlands organisation for health research and development (ZonMw).\n\nParticipatient is one of the founding projects of the Dutch National eHealth Living Lab (NeLL).\n"}
{"id": "4792624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4792624", "title": "Patriotic Health Campaign", "text": "Patriotic Health Campaign\n\nThe Patriotic Health Campaign, first started in the 1950s, are campaigns aimed to improve sanitation, hygiene, as well as attack diseases in the People's Republic of China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1409366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409366", "title": "Patuxai", "text": "Patuxai\n\nPatuxai (Lao: ປະຕູໄຊ, literally meaning Victory Gate or Gate of Triumph, formerly the Anousavary or Anosavari Monument, known by the French as Monument Aux Morts) is a war monument in the centre of Vientiane, Laos, built between 1957 and 1968. The Patuxai was dedicated to those who fought in the struggle for independence from France. In romanising the name from the Laotian language, it is variously transliterated as Patuxai, Patuxay, Patousai and Patusai. It is also called Patuxai Arch or the Arc de Triomphe of Vientiane as it resembles the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. However, it is typically Laotian in design, decorated with mythological creatures such as the kinnari (half-female, half-bird).\n\nPatuxai is a compound word, 'Patuu' or 'patu' meaning a \"door\" or \"gateway\" and 'Xai', derivative of the Sanskrit 'Jaya', which means \"victory\". Thus it means “Victory Gate”. The Patuxai was built during a turbulent period Lao history. It was built when Laos was a constitutional monarchy and was originally known simply as the \"Anousavali\" (\"memory\"), dedicated memory of the Laotian soldiers who died during World War II and the independence war from France in 1949.\n\nThe monument was built using American funds and cement actually intended to build a new airport. The Royal Laotian Government instead built the monument, which earned it the nickname of the \"vertical runway\".\n\nThe monument was designed by Tham Sayasthsena, a Laotian architect. In 1957, his plans were selected out of those submitted by the Public Works Department, the Military Engineering Department, and numerous private architects. Tham received 30,000 kips for his work. The cost of construction was estimated as 63 million kips.\n\nIn May 1975, the communist Pathet Lao overthrew the coalition government and seized power, ending the ancient monarchy and installing a half-Vietnamese prime minister. They renamed the monument Patuxai in honor of their own victory.\n\nThe Patuxai is at the end of Lang Xang Avenue in the heart of Vientiane. Patuxay Park surrounds the monument.\n\nThe monument has five towers that represent the five principles of coexistence among nations of the world. They are also representative of the five Buddhist principles of “thoughtful amiability, flexibility, honesty, honor and prosperity”.\nThe monument, as built, has gateways on four sides oriented towards the four cardinal directions. The East-West gateways open to the Long Xang Avenue, which is used during ceremonial national parades. In front of each gate, there is a pond. The four ponds represent the open section of a lotus flower (representing reverence of Laotians to the brave warriors of the nation). The four corners of the gateways are adorned by statues of a Naga King (mythical symbol of Laos), with a depiction signifying spraying of a jet of water (suggesting nature, fertility, welfare and happiness) into the ponds on the ground. Two concrete staircases wind up from inside the main structure, passing through each floor, right up to the top of the monument. Viewing galleries are provided on the upper floors. The first floor has mainly the offices of the management of the monument; the kiosks dealing with tourist paraphernalia (artefacts, souvenirs and refreshments) are also housed on this floor. The second floor is an important area where a museum is housed, displaying statues and pictures of the iconic heroes and heroines of the country. \nThe next level is an open space where four towers are built at the four corners. These towers have been decorated with frescoes of foliage. The towers are also fitted with electric lights, which are switched on during the national day and other important festivals. The small towers, with temple like ornamentation, are designed in the Laotian style and are provided with spires. Each tower has a stairway. Apart from the four corner towers, there is another central larger tower above this floor, which also has a staircase which leads to the top floor that has the viewing platform from where a panoramic view of Vientiane could be seen. A telescope is also fitted at that level to get a view of the city. Plans have been drawn to fit lifts from two diagonal corners of the monument, which are expected to be ready in 2010 when the 450th anniversary of Vientiane as the capital of Laos will be celebrated. On this occasion, the entire monument is proposed to be decorated with flowers and illuminated. The monumental building is not fully finished to this day, although the Laotian government have repeatedly authorized new funds.\n\nThe musical fountain system fitted in the newly developed elegant garden was donated by the Chinese. It is a popular feature for visitors and local people who visit the monuments in the afternoons.\n\n"}
{"id": "33948960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33948960", "title": "Roscommon Hospital Action Committee", "text": "Roscommon Hospital Action Committee\n\nThe Roscommon Hospital Action Committee (HAC) is a campaign group established to protest against the downgrading of A&E services at Roscommon Hospital in Ireland. Its chairman is John McDermott. McDermott was an unsuccessful candidate for the Roscommon–South Leitrim constituency at the 2011 general election.\n\nIn December 2006, the Roscommon Hospital Action Committee criticised what it called the \"fudged language\" of the Health Service Executive (HSE) on emergency care at Roscommon Hospital.\n\nOn 16 August 2010, thousands of people marched through Roscommon to the hospital where they held hands and made a human chain.\n\nTaoiseach Enda Kenny confirmed the downgrading of emergency services at the hospital while visiting Roscommon to open a constituency office for Denis Naughten on 27 June 2011. He was met by upset protesters. While campaigning ahead of the general election earlier that year, Kenny had been recorded by a journalist promising emergency care would be kept at the hospital if people voted for Naughten and Frank Feighan. In July 2011, when the downgrading of services had been confirmed and the recording made public, Kenny spoke of his regret for the confusion his words may have caused voters.\n\nIn July 2011, the Roscommon Hospital Action Committee protested at Leinster House and later at seven bridges over the River Shannon. On 8 August 2011, members of the Committee participated in a sit-in at the hospital's 24-hour emergency unit as it was to close down. A banner made from torn sheets hung on the wall outside, saying: \"Our Hands Can save Lives but this is death at the hands of Fine Gael and Labour\".\n\nAfter a woman walking her dog discovered files containing the personal details of hundreds of patients from the Midland Regional Hospital, Mullingar, in a bin outside Roscommon Hospital she gave them to the Roscommon Hospital Action Committee which passed them on to the Data Protection Commissioner. Three investigations were established.\n"}
{"id": "531229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531229", "title": "Sexaholics Anonymous", "text": "Sexaholics Anonymous\n\nSexaholics Anonymous (SA) is one of several twelve-step programs for compulsive sexual acting-out based on the original Twelve Steps of Alcoholics Anonymous. SA takes its place among various twelve-step groups that seek recovery from sexual addiction: Sex Addicts Anonymous, Sex and Love Addicts Anonymous, Sexual Compulsives Anonymous and Sexual Recovery Anonymous. Collectively these groups are referred to as \"S\" groups since all their acronyms begin with that letter: SA, SAA, SLAA, SCA, SRA.\n\nSA helps recovering \"sexaholics.\" According to the group, a sexaholic is someone for whom \"lust has become an addiction.\" SA distinguishes itself from other S groups by defining sexual sobriety as no sex with self or with partners other than with one's spouse \"in the marriage between a man and a woman\", and progressive victory over lust.\n\n\"In defining sobriety, we do not speak for those outside Sexaholics Anonymous. We can only speak for ourselves. Thus, for the married sexaholic, sexual sobriety means having no form of sex with self or with persons other than the spouse. For the unmarried sexaholic, sexual sobriety means freedom from sex of any kind. And for all of us, single and married alike, \"sexual sobriety also includes progressive victory over lust\"\".\n\nThe group uses the Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous and the book \"Sexaholics Anonymous\" (often referred to as \"The White Book\") as a guide. The White Book explains that \"the sexaholic has taken himself or herself out of the whole context of what is right or wrong. He or she has lost control, no longer has the power of choice, and is not free to stop.\"\n\nSexaholics Anonymous was founded by Roy K (in twelve-step fellowships it is customary to refer to members by their first name and the first initial of their last name, in order to preserve their anonymity). SA received permission from AA to use its Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions in 1979.\n\nRoy K died from cancer on the afternoon of September 15, 2009. He had been sexually sober since January 31, 1976.\n\nFrom the earliest attempts by Roy K to found SA in the 1970s, and throughout the history of SA, some members have sought to change the group’s concept of sexual sobriety. This was an attempt to generalize marriage similar to the 12 Step concept from Step 3 of \"God as you understand God\". It was an attempt to endorse as sexually sober, sexual activity by couples, not legally married, whether they be of the same or opposite sex. The fellowship did not accept this and, as a result, in 1991 some SA members and groups left SA to form Sexual Recovery Anonymous (SRA), citing the SA sobriety definition’s lack of endorsement of same sex relationships and committed relationships. Murray R, one of the SRA founders had served on the SA General Service Board and had long attempted to change the SA sobriety definition to include committed relationships with either the same or opposite sex.\n\nAs early as 1991 Roy was writing to the fellowship regarding same-sex acting out. In an article titled Principles Corroborating SA's Interpretation of Sexual Sobriety Roy wrote, \"\"Ever since attending the April 1986 and 1987 NYC Marathons, I have been examining my own assumptions in the same-sex area. That year I wrote a letter to a same-sex member sharing my thoughts; it now has the title \"Recovery Reveals Our False Assumptions.\" That paper, which follows, gives reasons from within our common recovery experience why I believe we in SA should not endorse or validate, even indirectly, same-sex or \"committed relationship\" sexualizing in SA.\"\"\nIn the section titled \"The Great Same-Sex Controversy\" Roy goes on to explain how society was divided on the \"nature vs. nurture\" argument about homosexuality, \"\"Intense controversies rage about this issue in every area of modern life in highly polarized and publicized passion. It is one of the most explosive political issues of the day. Congress is divided. Religions and churches are divided. The Twelve Step program is divided. The same-sex culture itself is divided. The \"experts\" are divided. The point here is this: For SA to validate same-sex sexualizing in SA, even indirectly, would have us endorsing a highly controversial biological theory and political movement against our Tenth Tradition. If we validate same-sex sexualizing as normative for the sexaholic in recovery, and it turns out not to be normative, SA will have been promoting an untruth and doing a devilish disservice, supporting the problem instead of recovery. That's an awesome responsibility we're dealing with here—human lives!\"\"\n\nThe issue came up again in the late 1990s. A survey was held, reaching out to various individual meetings through the regional councils and local Intergroups. A solid majority of responders felt that the sobriety definition did not require clarification. Agitation on the issue continued due to a perception that the ambiguous nature of the survey questions rendered the results meaningless. The Chair of the SA Delegates Assembly summed up this ambiguity: \"I received conflicting opinions about the meaning of the January 1999 vote that we do not need to clarify the SA sobriety definition. Many (probably most) were convinced this vote meant that we are already clear on the meaning of traditional SA sobriety and no further clarification is needed. Others were equally convinced this vote meant that \"spouse\" and \"marriage\" could be interpreted as understood by each member. Some were convinced that SA is afraid to \"say what it means and mean what it says\" \n\nOn July 9, 1999, the General Delegates Assembly, meeting at an international conference in Cleveland, unanimously voted (9-0) to clarify the definition of \"spouse\" to be \"one's partner in a marriage between a man and a woman.\" This is known as the Cleveland Clarification or the Cleveland Statement of Principle. It was overwhelmingly accepted by the membership at the group, intergroup and regional levels. In 2000 same-sex attracted SA members expressed their support for the Cleveland Clarification in a letter to SA delegates and trustees signed by 66 members from 7 countries. Candidates for membership in the SA Board of Trustees, are now required to affirm the SA Sobriety Definition including the Cleveland Clarification.\n\nThis controversy continues to circulate within the fellowship. The General Delegate Assembly (GDA) \"is the policy making body of SA.\" Any Delegate is free to propose a motion at the GDA to debate the SA sobriety definition. SA Conferences are about recovery, not for debating policy matters like the sobriety definition. Essay, the quarterly international SA newsletter, states the principle in its Editorial Philosophy: \"\"SA’s sobriety definition is not debated, since it distinguishes SA from other sex addiction fellowships. Essay is not a forum for non-SA sobriety.\"\n\nIn July 2016, the SA General Delegates Assembly(GDA) passed a motion further entrenching the 1999 Cleveland Statement of Principle : \"\"In SA's sobriety definition, the term \"spouse\" refers to one’s partner in a marriage between a man and a woman\"\". The motion requires the inclusion of the Statement of Principle in all SA literature on the SA website home page. Further, the motion declared that “Meetings that do not adhere to and follow …the Statement of Principle … are not SA meetings and shall not call themselves SA meetings” \n\nSA has attracted a subsection of the same-sex attracted population who seek not to act sexually on such attractions. At the July 2007 SA International Convention a survey was conducted of 176 SA members. Asked the object of their sexual fantasy and acting out, 23% nominated same-sex and a further 7% indicated both genders. Topic meetings on same-sex issues are held at SA International Conferences and personal stories of same–sex recovery appear in Essay, the official SA quarterly publication. There also exist other organizations which serve such individuals; see Ex-gay.\n\n\"All SA & S-Anon conventions from inception to 2016 have been held in the United States, except July 1992 and July 1997 which were both held in Canada. In 2017, the first SA International Convention was held outside North America in Israel, Middle East.\"\n\nResearch\n\nSA fully accepts all AA General Conference-approved literature for use in SA meetings, and SA groups frequently read from AA literature in their own meetings. SA adheres closely to the AA model, applying all of AA's principles to lust and sexual addiction, and whereas other members of other S-groups define sobriety for themselves, SA is closer to AA in proposing an understanding of sobriety which requires abstinence and is common to the group.\n\n\n\n\nBecause SA's sobriety definition has clear roots in Western and Eastern morality, the movement has a great appeal to Hindus, Christians, that is, Protestants, Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholics, religious Jews, secular Jews, Muslims, Buddhists, atheists, and agnostics.\n\nA psychologist involved in sexual addiction treatment, Patrick Carnes, encourages self-defined sobriety in his writings, saying that a no-masturbation definition of sobriety is only appropriate for some sex addicts and that bottom lines can in fact be modified over time. Joe Kort criticizes SA for its pro-heterosexual marriage stance.\n\nHowever, the founder Roy K. knew ahead of time that this was a controversial subject and often wrote letters from a contrarian perspective. \"If we come into an SA group where we can define our own sobriety, watch those rationalizations come alive! And if we define our own level of sobriety, that's all we're likely to reach.\" In addition, Roy studied Theology for many years at a Seminary. He often would leave an SA convention where he was one of the 'keynote speakers' and preach at a church around the corner for those interested in listening to a more evangelical point of view. \"We don't claim to understand all the ramifications of sexual sobriety. Some of us have come to believe that there is a deeper spiritual significance in sexual sobriety, while others simply report that without a firm and clear bottom line, our \"cunning, baffling, and powerful\" sexaholism takes over sooner or later.\n\nS-Anon is an organization for relatives of sex addicts based on the twelve steps of Alcoholics Anonymous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27884892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27884892", "title": "Strolling", "text": "Strolling\n\nStrolling is walking along or through at a leisurely pace. Strolling is a pastime and activity enjoyed worldwide as a leisure activity. The object of strolling is to walk at a slightly slower pace in an attempt to absorb the surroundings.\n\nWorks featuring the \"flâneur\", French for a “strolling urban observer”, have appeared in European and American literature since the late 18th century.\n\nThe verb form of \"stroll\" may have originated from a c.1600 Cant word. This word may have been derived from the German word \"strollen\", which in itself is a derivative of the German word \"strolchen\", which means \"to roam, travel about aimlessly, drift, rove.\" The German noun \"strolch\" refers to any sort of vagabond or rogue.\n\nBefore the American Revolution, a stroller was the British word for a vagabond.\n\nThe noun stroll came from the verb in 1814. The term \"stroller\" was coined in the 1920s as a \"child’s push-chair.\". The modern-day usage of the word \"stroll\" does not differ greatly from its older derivatives.\n\nStrolling is not an aerobic exercise. The body's energy demands whilst strolling do not require extra oxygen. Physicians therefore do not recommend strolling, but rather recommend more vigorous and aerobic forms of exercise. The American Medical Association's committee on Exercise and Physical Fitness has stated that \"walking briskly, not just strolling, is the simplest and also one of the best forms of exercise\".\n\nResearchers investigating the cognitive benefits to exercise have also concluded that strolling results in no significant gains to cognitive health as people age. Brisk walking and other everyday activities, such as house work or gardening, have demonstrated significant benefits to prevention of cognitive decline as the population ages.\n\nOther researchers at the Mayo Clinic posit that all activity that is not sleeping, eating, or sports activity still contributes to overall health. This has been named \"Non-exercise activity thermogenesis\" (NEAT) and includes everything from strolling to fidgeting in the analysis of energy consumption. Utilizing NEAT research has generated many ideas about social design of offices, schools, and living spaces to promote any physical activity, such as removing places to sit to promote standing and pacing. The body operates at a more balanced level when strolling. The heart beat is more balanced. The blood pressure is well balanced.\n\nIn Spain, a stroll is called a ‘’Paseo’’ and is a popular after-dinner pastime. The participants, whose membership is egalitarian, wear their best clothing. Activities include chatting with neighbors and acquaintances, flirting, and gossiping. Several streets in countries with a Spanish cultural history incorporate the word: Paseo de la Reforma in Mexico City, Paseo del Prado, Havana, Paseo de Roxas in the Philippines, and Buenos Aires’s Paseo La Plaza.\n\nThe 19th-century Russian literary critic Vissarion Belinsky described St. Petersburg as the center of urban strolling in that country, by contrast with Moscow. Rural strolls have long been a staple of Russian fiction and songs; Tchaikovsky composed a musical accompaniment to the Nikolay Grekov poem “We haven’t long to stroll”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55840434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55840434", "title": "Swedish Healthcare", "text": "Swedish Healthcare\n\nThe Swedish healthcare system is highly decentralized, and is universal for all citizens. The Swedish healthcare system is mainly financed through the public sector, and city councils run public healthcare. A total of 21 councils are in charge with primary and hospital care within the country. Private healthcare is rarity in Sweden, and even those private institutions work under the mandated city councils.The city councils regulates the rules and the establishment of potential private practices. Although in most countries care for the elderly or those who need psychiatric help is conducted privately, in Sweden local, publicly funded authorities are in charge of this type of care. The Swedish government makes an effort to limit private firms in healthcare. The government takes the precautions to eliminate profit seeking in the welfare/public health sector.\n\nThe Swedish health system is mainly effective but there are some problems within the system. Increased access to primary care is one issue that arises. Most citizens in Sweden go to the hospital for routine check ups. Primary care needs to be made more readily accessible to Swedes instead of them going to hospitals for minor health needs. Another issue is Swedish emergency units are below the minimum safe size. The decentralized healthcare system in Sweden leads to this inefficiency, because of decentralization the counties are granted extreme amount of flexibility. The coordination between counties and municipalities is affected because of this constant shifting and flexibility. The primary care issues stems from councils. The government has tried to make primary private care more accessible to citizens but the city councils halt this in most counties. The lack of privatized health services leads to a number of the inefficiencies in the system.\n\nAccording to OECD the Swedish health system is one of the best in the world. The Funding and cost of keeps healthcare affordable and accessible to all Swedish citizens. The funding for Swedish health care comes from central and local taxes. The mandated councils and municipalities have the ability to levy taxes on citizens. Local taxes equate for about 70% of the budgets for councils and municipalities, while overall 85% of the total health budget come from public funding. The Swedish government takes about half of the workers' paychecks but single payer healthcare and higher pensions than most countries make this cost viable for each citizen. Costs of Swedish health services are affordable and councils are required by the law to set budgets. Doctors and staff members are placed on salary instead of fluctuating financial incentives that doctors and staff in other countries are allowed. The budgeting manages cost control for health needs and eliminates welfare for private firms or employess who provide service within the public sector.\n"}
{"id": "2795512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795512", "title": "TeenScreen", "text": "TeenScreen\n\nThe TeenScreen National Center for Mental Health Checkups at Columbia University was a national mental health and suicide risk screening initiative for middle- and high-school age adolescents. On November 15, 2012, according to its website, the program was terminated. The organization operated as a center in the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Department at Columbia University, in New York City. The program was developed at Columbia University in 1999, and launched nationally in 2003. Screening was voluntary and offered through doctors' offices, schools, clinics, juvenile justice facilities, and other youth-serving organizations and settings. , the program had more than 2,000 active screening sites across 46 states in the United States, and in other countries including Australia, Brazil, India and New Zealand.\n\nThe program was developed by a team of researchers at Columbia University, led by David Shaffer. The goal was to make researched and validated screening questionnaires available for voluntary identification of possible mental disorders and suicide risk in middle and high school students. The questionnaire they developed is known as the Columbia Suicide Screen, which entered into use in 1999, an early version of what is now the Columbia Health Screen. In 2003, the New Freedom Commission on Mental Health, created under the administration of George W. Bush, identified the TeenScreen program as a \"model\" program and recommended adolescent mental health screening become common practice.\n\nThe organization launched an initiative to provide voluntary mental health screening to all U.S. teens in 2003. The following year, TeenScreen was included in the national Suicide Prevention Resource Center's (SPRC) list of evidence-based suicide prevention programs. In 2007, it was included as an evidence-based program in the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)'s National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices. In 2009, the organization launched the TeenScreen Primary Care initiative to increase mental health screening by pediatricians and other primary care providers, the same year the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended annual adolescent mental health screening as part of routine primary care, and the Institute of Medicine recommended expansion of prevention and early identification programs.\n\n, the program was led by executive director Laurie Flynn, deputy executive director Leslie McGuire and scientific advisor Mark Olfson, M.D., alongside a National Advisory Council of healthcare professionals, educators and advocates.\n\nAs of November 15, 2012, TeenScreen has been terminated, will no longer train or register new programs, and will cease all operations by the end of the year.\n\nThe mission of the TeenScreen National Center was to expand and improve the early identification of mental health problems in youth. In particular, TeenScreen aimed to find young people at risk of suicide or developing mental health disorders so they could be referred for a comprehensive mental health evaluation by a health professional. The program focuses on providing screening to young people in the 11-18 age range. From 2003 until 2012, the program was offered nationally in schools, clinics, doctors' offices and in youth service environments such as shelters and juvenile justice settings. , more than 2,000 primary care providers, schools and community-based sites in 46 states offered adolescent mental health screening through the TeenScreen National Center. In addition, the screening was also being provided in other countries including Australia, Brazil, India, New Zealand and Scotland.\n\nTeenScreen provided materials, training and technical help through its TeenScreen Primary Care and Schools and Communities programs for primary care providers, schools and youth-serving organizations that provided mental health screening to adolescents. A toolkit was provided, including researched and validated questionnaires, instructions for administering, scoring and interpreting the screening responses. Primary care program materials included information on primary care referrals for clinical evaluation. In the school and community setting, the screening process was voluntary and required active parental consent and participant assent prior to screening sessions.\n\nThe validated questionnaires included items about depression, thoughts of suicide and attempts, anxiety, and substance use. The screening questionnaires typically took up to ten minutes for an adolescent to complete. Once the responses to the questionnaire had been reviewed, any adolescent identified as being at possible risk for suicide or other mental health concerns would then assessed by a health or mental health professional. The result of this assessment determined whether the adolescent could be referred for mental health services. If this was the case, parents were involved and provided with help locating the appropriate mental health services.\n\nMental health screening has been endorsed by the former U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher, who launched a \"Call to Action\" in 1999 encouraging the development and implementation of safe, effective school-based programs offering intervention, help and support to young people with mental health issues. TeenScreen is included as an evidence-based program in the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)'s National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices as a scientifically tested and reviewed intervention. In addition, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended in 2009 that mental health screening for teenagers be integrated into routine primary care appointments.\n\nStudies have been conducted on the effectiveness and impact of mental health screening for young people. In a 2004 systematic evidence review, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force found that there were no studies that addressed whether screening as part of primary care reduced morbidity and mortality, nor any information of the potential risks of screening. In a later review, published in 2009, the task force found that there was evidence supporting the efficacy of screening tools in identifying teenagers at risk of suicide or mental health disorders.\n\nA team of researchers from Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute completed a randomized controlled clinical trial on the impact of suicide screening on high school students in New York State from 2002-2004. The study found that students who were given a questionnaire about suicide were no more likely to report suicidal thoughts after the survey than students in the control group who had not been questioned. Neither was there any greater risk for \"high risk\" students. A subsequent study by the researchers, in 2009, found that screening appeared to increase the likelihood that adolescents would receive treatment if they were at risk for mental health disorders or suicide. \n\nA study published in 2011, involving 2,500 high school students, examined the value of routine mental health screening in school to identify adolescents at-risk for mental illness, and to connect those adolescents with recommended follow-up care. The research, conducted between 2005 and 2009 at six public high schools in suburban Wisconsin, found that nearly three out of four high school students identified as being at-risk for having a mental health problem were not in treatment at the time of screening. Of those students identified as at-risk, a significant majority (76.3 percent) completed at least one visit with a mental health provider within 90 days of screening. More than half (56.3 percent) received minimally adequate treatment, defined as having three or more visits with a provider, or any number of visits if termination was agreed to by the provider.\n\nA separate study published in 2011, found that mental health screening was effective at connecting African-American middle school students from a predominantly low-income area with school-based mental health services. Researchers have also found evidence to support the addition of mental health screenings for adolescents while undergoing routine physical examinations.\n\nRecommendations endorsing adolescent mental health screening have been issued by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF). The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends assessment of mental health at primary care visits and suggests the use of validating screening instruments. These add to statements and recommendations to screen adolescents for mental illness from the American Medical Association (AMA), the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine, the American Academy of Family Physicians and the National Association of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners. TeenScreen has been endorsed by a number of organizations, including the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, and federal and state commissions such as the New Freedom Commission.\n\nThere is opposition to mental health screening programs in general and TeenScreen in particular, from civil liberties, parental rights, and politically conservative groups. Much of the opposition is led by groups who claim that the organization is funded by the pharmaceutical industry; however, in 2011, an inquiry launched by Senator Charles E. Grassley into the funding of health advocacy groups by pharmaceutical, medical-device, and insurance companies demonstrated to Senator Grassley's satisfaction that TeenScreen does not receive funding from the pharmaceutical industry. Sen. Grassley sent a letter to TeenScreen and 33 other organizations like the American Cancer Society asking about their financial ties to the pharmaceutical industry. TeenScreen replied saying they did not accept money from medical companies. \n\nIn 2005, TeenScreen was criticized following media coverage of a suit filed a local screening program in Indiana by the parents of a teenager who had taken part in screening. The suit alleged that the screening had taken place without parents' permissions. The complaint led to a change in how parental consent was handled by TeenScreen sites. In 2006, the program's policy was amended so that active rather than passive consent was required from parents before screening adolescents in a school setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "42067251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42067251", "title": "Tumour heterogeneity", "text": "Tumour heterogeneity\n\nTumour heterogeneity describes the observation that different tumour cells can show distinct morphological and phenotypic profiles, including cellular morphology, gene expression, metabolism, motility, proliferation, and metastatic potential. This phenomenon occurs both between tumours (inter-tumour heterogeneity) and within tumours (intra-tumour heterogeneity). A minimal level of intra-tumour heterogeneity is a simple consequence of the imperfection of DNA replication: whenever a cell (normal or cancerous) divides, a few mutations are acquired—leading to a diverse population of cancer cells. The heterogeneity of cancer cells introduces significant challenges in designing effective treatment strategies. However, research into understanding and characterizing heterogeneity can allow for a better understanding of the causes and progression of disease. In turn, this has the potential to guide the creation of more refined treatment strategies that incorporate knowledge of heterogeneity to yield higher efficacy.\n\nTumour heterogeneity has been observed in leukemias, breast, prostate, colon, brain, esophagus, head and neck, bladder and gynecological carcinomas, liposarcoma, and multiple myeloma.\n\nThere are two models used to explain the heterogeneity of tumour cells. These are the cancer stem cell model and the clonal evolution model. The models are not mutually exclusive, and it is believed that they both contribute to heterogeneity in varying amounts across different tumour types.\n\nThe cancer stem cell model asserts that within a population of tumour cells, there is only a small subset of cells that are tumourigenic (able to form tumours). These cells are termed cancer stem cells (CSCs), and are marked by the ability to both self-renew and differentiate into non-tumourigenic progeny. The CSC model posits that the heterogeneity observed between tumour cells is the result of differences in the stem cells from which they originated. Stem cell variability is often caused by epigenetic changes, but can also result from clonal evolution of the CSC population where advantageous genetic mutations can accumulate in CSCs and their progeny (see below).\n\nEvidence of the cancer stem cell model has been demonstrated in multiple tumour types including leukemias, glioblastoma, breast cancer, and prostate cancer.\n\nHowever, the existence of CSCs is still under debate. One reason for this is that markers for CSCs have been difficult to reproduce across multiple tumours. Further, methods for determining tumourigenic potential utilize xenograft models. These methods suffer from inherent limitations such as the need to control immune response in the transplant animal, and the significant difference in environmental conditions from the primary tumour site to the xenograft site (\"e.g.\" absence of required exogenous molecules or cofactors). This has caused some doubt about the accuracy of CSC results and the conclusions about which cells have tumourigenic potential.\n\nThe clonal evolution model was first proposed in 1976 by Peter Nowell. In this model, tumours arise from a single mutated cell, accumulating additional mutations as it progresses. These changes give rise to additional subpopulations, and each of these subpopulations has the ability to divide and mutate further. This heterogeneity may give rise to subclones that possess an evolutionary advantage over the others within the tumour environment, and these subclones may become dominant in the tumour over time. When proposed, this model allowed for the understanding of tumour growth, treatment failure, and tumour aggression that occurs during the natural process of tumour formation.\n\nEvolution of the initial tumour cell may occur by two methods:\n\nSequentially ordered mutations accumulate in driver genes, tumour suppressor genes, and DNA repair enzymes, resulting in clonal expansion of tumour cells. Linear expansion is less likely to reflect the endpoint of a malignant tumour because the accumulation of mutations is stochastic in heterogeneic tumours.\n\nExpansion into multiple subclonal populations occurs through a splitting mechanism. This method is more associated with tumour heterogeneity than linear expansion. The acquisition of mutations is random as a result of increased genomic instability with each successive generation. The long-term mutational accumulation may provide a selective advantage during certain stages of tumour progression. The Tumor microenvironment may also contribute to tumour expansion, as it is capable of altering the selective pressures that the tumour cells are exposed to.\n\nMultiple types of heterogeneity have been observed between tumour cells, stemming from both genetic and non-genetic variability.\n\nGenetic heterogeneity is a common feature of tumour genomes, and can arise from multiple sources. Some cancers are initiated when exogenous factors introduce mutations, such as ultraviolet radiation (skin cancers) and tobacco (lung cancer). A more common source is genomic instability, which often arises when key regulatory pathways are disrupted in the cells. Some examples include impaired DNA repair mechanisms which can lead to increased replication errors, and defects in the mitosis machinery that allow for large-scale gain or loss of entire chromosomes. Furthermore, it is possible for genetic variability to be further increased by some cancer therapies (\"e.g.\" treatment with temozolomide and other chemotherapy drugs).\n\nMutational tumor heterogeneity refers to variations in mutation frequency in different genes and samples and can be explored by MutSig. The etiology of mutational processes can considerably vary between tumor samples from the same or different cancer types and can be manifested in different context-dependent mutational profiles. It can be explored by COSMIC mutational signatures or MutaGene.\n\nTumour cells can also show heterogeneity between their expression profiles. This is often caused by underlying epigenetic changes.\nVariation in expression signatures have been detected in different regions of tumour samples within an individual. Researchers have shown that convergent mutations affecting H3K36 methyltransferase SETD2 and histone H3K4 demethylase KDM5C arose in spatially separated tumour sections. Similarly, MTOR, a gene encoding a cell regulatory kinase, has shown to be constitutively active, thereby increasing S6 phosphorylation. This active phosphorylation may serve as a biomarker in clear-cell carcinoma.\n\nMechanochemical heterogeneity is a hallmark of living eukaryotic cells. It has an impact on epigenetic gene regulation. The heterogeneous dynamic mechanochemical processes regulate interrelationships within the group of cellular surfaces through adhesion. Tumour development and spreading is accompanied by change in heterogeneous chaotic dynamics of mechanochemical interaction process in the group cells, including cells within tumour, and is hierarchical for the host of cancer patients. It is suggested that the heterogeneity of hypoxia in solid tumors is due to the mechanochemical reactions with oxygen nanobubbles. The biological phenomena of mechanochemical heterogeneity maybe used for differential gastric cancer diagnostics against patients with inflammation of gastric mucosa and for increasing antimetastatic activity of dendritic cells based on vaccines when mechanically heterogenized microparticles of tumor cells are used for their loading. There is also a possible methodical approach based on the simultaneous ultrasound imaging diagnostic techniques and therapy, regarding the mechanochemical effect on nanobubles conglomerates with drugs in the tumour.\n\nHeterogeneity between tumour cells can be further increased due to heterogeneity in the tumour microenvironment. Regional differences in the tumour (\"e.g.\" availability of oxygen) impose different selective pressures on tumour cells, leading to a wider spectrum of dominant subclones in different spatial regions of the tumour. The influence of microenvironment on clonal dominance is also a likely reason for the heterogeneity between primary and metastatic tumours seen in many patients, as well as the inter-tumour heterogeneity observed between patients with the same tumour type.\n\nHeterogeneic tumours may exhibit different sensitivities to cytotoxic drugs among different clonal populations. This is attributed to clonal interactions that may inhibit or alter therapeutic efficacy, posing a challenge for successful therapies in heterogeneic tumours (and their heterogeneic metastases).\n\nDrug administration in heterogeneic tumours will seldom kill all tumour cells. The initial heterogeneic tumour population may bottleneck, such that few drug resistant cells (if any) will survive. This allows resistant tumour populations to replicate and grow a new tumour through the branching evolution mechanism (see above). The resulting repopulated tumour is heterogeneic and resistant to the initial drug therapy used. The repopulated tumour may also return in a more aggressive manner.\n\nThe administration of cytotoxic drugs often results in initial tumour shrinkage. This represents the destruction of initial non-resistant subclonal populations within a heterogeneic tumour, leaving only resistant clones. These resistant clones now contain a selective advantage and can replicate to repopulate the tumour. Replication will likely occur through branching evolution, contributing to tumour heterogeneity. The repopulated tumour may appear to be more aggressive. This is attributed to the drug-resistant selective advantage of the tumour cells.\n\nDue to the genetic differences within and between tumours, biomarkers that may predict treatment response or prognosis may not be widely applicable. However, it has been suggested that the level of heterogeneity can itself be used as a biomarker since more heterogeneous tumours may be more likely to contain treatment-resistant subclones. Further research into developing biomarkers that account for heterogeneity is still in progress.\n\nCurrent model systems typically lack the heterogeneity seen in human cancers. In order to accurately study tumour heterogeneity, we must develop more accurate preclinical models. One such model, the patient derived tumour xenograft, has shown excellent utility in preserving tumour heterogeneity whilst allowing detailed study of the drivers of clonal fitness. However, even this model cannot capture the full complexity of cancer.\n\nWhile the problem of identifying, characterizing, and treating tumour heterogeneity is still under active research, some effective strategies have been proposed, including both experimental and computational solutions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "908927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908927", "title": "Wanda Rutkiewicz", "text": "Wanda Rutkiewicz\n\nWanda Rutkiewicz (February 4, 1943 – May 12–13, 1992) was a Polish computer engineer and mountain climber. She was the first woman to successfully summit K2.\n\nWanda Rutkiewicz was born in a Polish family in Plungė, Lithuania. After World War II, her family chose to leave for Poland, settling in Wrocław in southwestern Poland's Recovered Territories, where she graduated from Wroclaw University of Technology as an electrical engineer.\n\nShe began climbing on the rocks near the Janowice Wielkie - Falcon Mountains ().\n\nWanda Rutkiewicz rode Junak, the heaviest Polish motorcycle, which indirectly contributed to her interest in climbing. One summer day in 1961, it ran out of fuel. She started waving to people passing her vehicle. The man riding the motorcycle which stopped to help was travelling with a colleague Bogdan Jankowski, who had been climbing for two years. This meeting resulted in their climbing of the .\n\nHer first major expedition was to the Pamir Mountains with Andrzej Zawada, which she found unpleasent due to fractured relationships with male climbers.\n\nAfter returning began to lead her own expeditions, including a number of all female ones, and became known for a blunt leadership style.\n\nOn 16 October 1978, she became the third woman, the first Pole, and the first European woman to reach the summit of Mount Everest. In 1986 she became the first woman to successfully climb K2, which she did without supplemental oxygen, as part of a small expedition led by Lilliane and Maurice Barrard. Her triumph was marred when both the Barrards died on the descent, becoming two of thirteen climbers to die on K2 that summer.\nRutkiewicz's goal was to become the first woman to summit all fourteen of the eight-thousanders. During her climbing life she successfully summitted the following mountains:\n\nWhile climbing Kangchenjunga, 49-year-old Rutkiewicz was last seen alive by Mexican climber Carlos Carsolio. She was sheltering at high altitude on the north-west face, during her attempted ascent of what would have been her ninth eight-thousander. At that moment Rutkiewicz was physically weakened and not able to make a rational decision that could have saved her life. Carsolio said that he didn't have the mental strength left to convince her to descend because he was weakened as well.\n\nIt was thought that the body was found on the south-west face of the mountain in 1995 by Fausto de Stefani, Marco Galezzi and Silvio Mondinelli, suggesting that she had climbed up the north-west ridge to a point very close to the summit before falling down the south-west side. However, more detailed analysis of the findings by the Italian climbers, such as colour of clothing and presence of Bulgarian-made tablets with the body, indicate that most likely it was the body of Bulgarian climber Yordanka Dimitrova, who was killed by an avalanche on the south-west face of Kangchenjunga in October 1994. It is not known if Rutkiewicz summitted Kangchenjunga. If she did so, she would have been the first woman to reach the top of the world's three highest mountains. Rutkiewicz's body has still not been found.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32943530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32943530", "title": "Work–life interface", "text": "Work–life interface\n\nWork–life interface is the intersection of work and private life. There are many aspects of one's personal life that can intersect with work including family, leisure, and health. Work–life interface is bidirectional; for instance, work can interfere with private life, and private life can interfere with work. This interface can be adverse in nature (e.g., work-life conflict) or can be beneficial (e.g., work-life enrichment) in nature.\n\nSeveral theories explain different aspects of the relationship between the work and family life. Boundary theory and border theory are the two fundamental theories that researchers have used to study these role conflicts. Other theories are built on the foundations of these two theories.\n\nSeven dominant theories have been utilized to explain this relationship on the boundary-border spectrum; These theories are: structural functioning, segmentation, compensation, supplemental and reactive compensation, role enhancement, spillover, and work enrichment model.\n\nThe roots of this theory can be traced back to the early 20th century, when industrial revolution was separating economic work from the family home. The 19th century’s technological advancements in machinery and manufacturing initiated the separation of work from family. However, it was not until the early 20th century that the first view of work-family theories started to shape. Structural-functionalism as one of the dominant sociology theories of early 20th century was a natural candidate.\nThe structural functionalism theory, which emerged following WWII, was largely influenced from the industrial revolution and the changes in the social role of men and women during this period. This theory implies that the life is concerned mainly with two separate spheres: productive life which happens in the workplace and affective life which is at home. Structural functionalism theory believes in the existence of radical separation between work (institution, workplace, or market) and families. According to this theory, these two (workplace and family) work best \"when men and women specialize their activities in separate spheres, women at home doing expressive work and men in the workplace performing instrumental tasks” (Kingsbury & Scanzoni, 1993; as cited in MacDermid, 2005: 18).\n\nIt has been argued that the work-family conflicts, in particular role conflicts, can be interpreted in terms of Lewis A. Coser's concept of \"greedy institutions\". These institutions are called \"greedy\" in the sense that they make all-encompassing demands on the commitment and loyalty of individuals, and tend to discourage involvement in other social spheres. Institutions such as religious orders, sects, academia, top level sports, the military and senior management have been interpreted as greedy institutions. On the other hand, also the family has been interpreted as a greedy institution in consideration of the demands placed on a caretaker. When a person is involved in two greedy institutions – be it child care and university, or family and the military, or others − task and role conflicts arise.\n\nBased on this theory work and family do not affect each other, since they are segmented and independent from each other. The literature also reports the usage of the terms compartmentalization, independence, separateness, disengagement, neutrality, and detachment to describe this theory.\n\nIn 1979, Piotrkowski argued that according to this theory employees “look to their homes as havens, [and] look to their families as sources of satisfaction lacking in the occupational sphere.\" What distinguishes compensation theory from the previous theories is that, in compensation theory, for the first time, the positive effect of work to family has been recognized.\n\nSupplemental and reactive compensation theories are two dichotomies of compensation theory which were developed during the late 1980s and the early 1990s. While compensation theory describes the behavior of employees in pursuing an alternative reward in the other sphere, supplemental and reactive compensation theories try to describe the reason behind the work-family compensation behavior of employees.\n\nAccording to this theory, the combination of certain roles has a positive, rather than a negative effect on well-being. This theory states that participation in one role is made better or easier by virtue of participation in the other role. Moreover, this theory acknowledges the negative effect of the work-family relationship, in which, only beyond a certain upper limit may overload and distress occur, however, the central focus of this perspective is mainly on the positive effects of work and family relationship, such as resource enhancement.\n\nSpillover is a process by which an employee’s experience in one domain affects their experience in another domain. Theoretically, spillover is perceived to be one of two types: positive or negative. Spillover as the most popular view of relationship between work and family, considers multidimensional aspects of work and family relationship.\n\nThis theory is one of the recent models for explaining the relationship between work and family. According to this model, experience in one role (work or family) will enhance the quality of life in the other role. In other words, this model tries to explain the positive effects of the work-family relationship.\n\nWork and family studies historically focus on studying the conflict between different roles that individuals have in their society, specifically their roles at work, and their roles as a family member.\n\nWork–family conflict is defined as interrole conflict where the participation in one role interfere with the participation in another. Greenhaus and Beutell (1985) differentiate three sources for conflict between work and family: \nConceptually, the conflict between work and family is bi-directional. Scholars distinguish between what is termed work-to-family conflict (WFC), and what is termed family-to-work conflict (FWC). This bi-directional view is displayed in the figure on the right.\nAccordingly, WFC might occur when experiences at work interfere with family life like extensive, irregular, or inflexible work hours. Family-to-work conflict occurs when experiences in the family interfere with work life. For example, a parent may take time off from work in order to take care of a sick child. Although these two forms of conflict — WFC and FWC — are strongly correlated with each other, more attention has been directed at WFC. This may because family demands are more elastic than the boundaries and responsibilities of the work role. Also, research has found that work roles are more likely to interfere with family roles than family roles are likely to interfere with work roles.\n\nAllen, Herst, Bruck, and Sutton (2000) describe in their paper three categories of consequences related to WFC: work-related outcomes (e.g., job satisfaction or job performance), nonwork-related outcomes (e.g., life or family satisfaction), and stress-related outcomes (e.g., depression or substance abuse). For example, WFC has been shown to be negatively related to job satisfaction whereas the association is more pronounced for females.\n\nThe vast majority of studies investigating the consequences of WFC were interrogating samples from Western countries, such as U.S. Therefore, the generalizability of their findings is in question. Fortunately, there is also literature studying WFC and its consequences in other cultural contexts, such as Taiwan and India. Lu, Kao, Cooper, Allen, Lapierre, O`Driscoll, Poelmans, Sanchez, and Spector (2009) could not find any cultural difference related in work-related and nonwork-related outcomes of WFC when they compared Great Britain and Taiwan. Likewise, Pal and Saksvik (2008) also did not detect specific cultural differences between employees from Norway and India. Nevertheless, more cross-cultural research is needed to understand the cultural dimensions of the WFC construct.\n\nThe research concerning interventions to reduce WFC is currently still very limited. As an exception, Nielson, Carlson, and Lankau (2001) showed that having a supportive mentor on the job correlates negatively with the employee’s WFC. However, other functions of mentoring, like the role model aspect, appear to have no effect on WFC. Therefore, the mechanisms how having a mentor influences the work–family interface remain unclear.\n\nIn terms of primary and secondary intervention there are some results. Hammer, Kossek, Anger, Bodner, and Zimmerman (2011) conducted a field study and showed that training supervisors to show more family supportive behavior, led to increased physical health in employees that were high in WFC. At the same time, employees having low WFC scores even decreased in physical health. This shows that even though interventions can help, it is important to focus on the right persons. Otherwise, the intervention damages more than it helps.\nAnother study (Wilson, Polzer-Debruyne, Chen, & Fernandes, 2007) showed that training employees helps to reduce shift work related WFC. Additionally, this training is more effective, if the partner of the focal person is also participating. Therefore, integrating the family into the intervention seems to be helpful too.\nThere are various additional factors that might influence the effectiveness of WFC interventions. For example, some interventions seem more adequate to reduce family-to-work conflict (FWC) than WFC (Hammer et al., 2011). More research is still needed, before optimal treatments against WFC can be derived.\n\nWork–family enrichment or work–family facilitation is a form of positive spillover, defined as a process whereby involvement in one domain establishes benefits and/or resources which then may improve performance or involvement in another domain (Greenhaus & Powell, 2006). For example, involvement in the family role is made easier by participation in the work role (Wayne, Musisca, & Fleeson, 2004).\n\nIn contrast to work–family conflict which is associated with several negative consequences, work–family enrichment is related to positive organizational outcomes such as job satisfaction and effort (Wayne et al., 2004). There are several potential sources enrichment can arise from. Examples are that resources (e.g., positive mood) gained in one role lead to better functioning in the other role (Sieber, 1974) or skills and attitudes that are acquired in one role are useful in the other role (Crouter, 1984).\n\nConceptually, enrichment between work and family is bi-directional. Most researchers make the distinction between what is termed work–family enrichment, and what is termed family–work enrichment. Work–family enrichment occurs, when ones involvement in work provides skills, behaviors, or positive mood which influences the family life in a positive way. Family-work enrichment, however, occurs when ones involvement in the family domain results in positive mood, feeling of success or support that help individuals to cope better with problems at work, feel more confident and in the end being more productive at work (Wayne, et al., 2004).\n\nSeveral antecedents of work–family enrichment have been proposed. Personality traits, such as extraversion and openness for experience have been shown to be positively related to work–family enrichment (Wayne et al., 2004). Next to individual antecedents, organizational circumstances such as resources and skills gained at work foster the occurrence of work–family enrichment (Voydanoff, 2004). For example, abilities such as interpersonal communication skills are learned at work and may then facilitate constructive communication with family members at home.\n\n\"Our review suggests that most of what is known about Work-Family issues is based on the experiences of heterosexual, Caucasian, managerial and professional employees in family arrangements\" (Casper et al., 2007, p. 10).\n\nResearch has focused especially on the role of the organization and the supervisor in the reduction of WFC. Results provide evidence for the negative association between the availability of family friendly resources provided by the work place and WFC. General support by the organization aids the employees to deal with work family issues so that organizational support is negatively connected to WFC (Kossek, Pichler, Bodner, & Hammer, 2011). Furthermore, Kossek et al. (2011) showed that work family specific support has a stronger negative connection with work family conflict. Interesting results by other researchers show that family friendly organizational culture also has an indirect effect on WFC via supervisor support and coworker support (Dolcoy & Daley, 2009). Surprisingly, some research also shows that the utilization of provided resources such as child care support or flexible work hours has no longitudinal connection with WFC (Hammer, Neal, Newson, Brockwood, & Colton, 2005). This result speaks against common assumptions. Also, the supervisor has a social-support function for his/her subordinates. As Moen and Yu (2000) showed supervisor support is an indicator for lower levels of WFC. Further support for this hypothesis stems from a study conducted by Thompson and Prottas (2005). Keeping in mind the support function, organizations should provide trainings for the supervisors and conduct the selection process of new employees. Similar as for organizational support, the meta-analysis by Kossek et al. (2011) showed that general supervisor is negatively connected to WFC. Again, work–family-specific supervisor support has a stronger negative connection with WFC. Aside from support by the organization and the supervisor, research points out a third source of work-place support: The coworker. The informal support by the coworker not only correlates with positive aspects such as job satisfaction, but is also negatively associated with negative variables such as WFC (Dolcos & Doley, 2009; Thompson & Prottas, 2005).\n\nIn terms of work–family enrichment, supervisors and organizations are also relevant, since they are able to provide with important resource (e.g., skills and financial benefits) and positive affect.\n\nA methodological review by Casper, Eby, Bordeaux, Lockwood, and Lambert (2007) summarizes the research methods used in the area of work-family research from 1980 to 2003. Their main findings are:\n\n· The descriptions of sample characteristics are often inconsistent and leave out essential information necessary to evaluate if generalization is appropriate or not.\n· Samples are mostly homogenous, neglecting diversity regarding racial, ethnic, cultural aspects, and non-traditional families (e.g., single or homosexual parents).\n· The research design of most studies is cross-sectional and correlational. Field settings are predominant (97%). Only 2% use experimental designs.\n· Surveys are mostly used for data collection (85%) whereas qualitative methods are used less often. Measures are mainly derived from one single person (76%) and focus on the individual level of analysis (89%). In this respect, research on, for example, dyads and groups have been neglected.\n· Simple inferential statistics are preferred (79%) instead of, for example, structural equation modeling (17%).\n· Regarding reliability aspects, coefficient alpha is often provided (87%), thereby reaching .79 on average. Pre-existing scales are often used (69%) containing multi-item measures (79%).\n\nIn light of these results, Casper, et al. (2007) give several recommendations. They suggest, for example, that researchers should use more longitudinal and experimental research designs, more diverse samples, data sources and levels of analysis.\n\nWork–life balance\n"}
{"id": "42323776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42323776", "title": "Yngve A. A. Larsson", "text": "Yngve A. A. Larsson\n\nYngve Axel Andreas Larsson (January 9, 1917 – March 22, 2014) was a Swedish pediatrician, medicine professor and diabetologist.\n\nYngve Larsson was the fifth child of Stockholm vice mayor Yngve Larsson and Elin Larsson (daughter of publisher Karl Otto Bonnier). He graduated from Uppsala University in 1938 and gained his Ph.D. at Karolinska Institute in 1956. From 1964 he worked for Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency in Addis Abeba, Ethiopia, first as a professor and 1965-1970 as director of the Ethio-Swedish Pediatric Clinic (ESPC) at Haile Selassie I University. In parallel, his wife pediatrician Ulla Larsson established the Lideta Maternal and Chlid Health Center (or \"Lideta MCH Clinic\") nearby with financing from the Swedish branch of Save the Children. In the 1970s Yngve Larsson worked in Linköping, Sweden, in charge of diabetology at Linköping University and initiating national research in the field.\n\nYngve Larsson was active in the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD) from its first year, and was a member of its Advisory Council in 1981-1984. After retiring in 1983, he worked within Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare for several years.\n\nLarsson died from natural causes on 22 March 2014 in Lidingö. He was 97 years old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6116840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6116840", "title": "Zardip's Search for Healthy Wellness", "text": "Zardip's Search for Healthy Wellness\n\nZardip's Search for Healthy Wellness was a Canadian educational television show from the 1980s intended to teach public health messages to schoolchildren. Zardip Pacific, played by Keram Malicki-Sánchez, is an alien from a planet whose inhabitants are becoming sick as they do not know how to live a healthy lifestyle. He takes the form of a boy and ventures to Earth to report the habits of humans to his home planet. He befriends a group of teenagers, who instruct their new and ignorant friend on topics ranging from nutrition to exercise, all the while unaware of Zardip's true identity.\n\nThe show has a cult following among Canadians who attended grade school in the late 1980s and early 1990s, due to memories of watching the videocassettes in class, or watching the shows as they aired on TVOntario.\n\n"}
