{"id": "14518645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14518645", "title": "1905 Chicago teamsters' strike", "text": "1905 Chicago teamsters' strike\n\nThe 1905 Chicago Teamsters' strike was a sympathy strike and lockout by the United Brotherhood of Teamsters in the summer of 1905 in the city of Chicago, Illinois. The strike was initiated by a small clothing workers' union. But it soon spread as nearly every union in the city, including the Teamsters, supported the job action with sympathy strikes. Initially, the strike was aimed at the Montgomery Ward department store, but it affected almost every employer in the metropolitan region after the Teamsters walked out. The strike eventually pitted the Teamsters against the Employers' Association of Chicago, a broad coalition of business owners formed a few years earlier to oppose unionization in Chicago.\n\nThe strike was a violent and deadly one. Riots erupted on April 7 and continued almost daily until mid-July. Hundreds and sometimes thousands of striking workers and their supporters would clash with strikebreakers and armed police each day. By late July, when the strike ended, 21 people had been killed and a total of 416 injured. It was the second-most deadly labor dispute in 20th-century American history, surpassed only by the East St. Louis Riot of 1917.\n\nCourt testimony in late summer revealed that various businessmen (including the general manager of Montgomery Ward) had taken bribes to lock out their workers. The testimony also revealed that union leaders had asked for and received bribes to end their strikes. The testimony significantly undercut public support for labor unions, and the strike quickly collapsed. The strike is generally considered to have lasted 103 days from the date the Teamsters entered the fray on April 6 until its conclusion on July 19, when most unions voted to withdraw from the dispute.\n\nThe strike is considered one of the most important of early 20th century American history because of its violence, the strength and depth of inter-union solidarity, and the way it dramatically weakened public support for unions nationwide.\n\nThe Employers' Association of Chicago (the EA) was formed in 1902 during a strike against telephone equipment manufacturers.\n\nIn January 1902, Brass Molder's Union Local 83 struck Stromberg-Carlson and Western Electric, seeking to win the closed shop in collective bargaining negotiations. The employers locked out the workers and brought in strikebreakers. Union members began to physically attack the strikebreakers. On May 7, 1903, the union struck the Kellogg Switchboard & Supply Company. Kellogg Switchboard, too, locked out its workforce and hired strikebreakers. The Teamsters Joint Council of Chicago, a citywide organization of all Teamster locals in the Chicago area, began a sympathy strike on June 24, 1903. The three employers sought injunctions against the sympathy strike, which they won on July 20, 1903. The Brass Molders' strike collapsed soon afterward.\n\nDuring this strike, the Employers' Association of Chicago was formed. John G. Shedd, vice-president of Marshall Field & Company, was the primary force behind the organization of the group. Shedd became the group's first president. Montgomery Ward president Robert J. Thorne was the EA's first vice-president; grocery store president Frank H. Armstrong of Reid, Murdoch & Company the second vice-president; and William E. Clow, president of plumbing manufacturer J.B. Clow & Co. the secretary. The EA's goal was to secure the open shop, resist unionization, and break unions in workplaces where they existed. The EA was heavily funded by the city's banks and by large companies such as Rand McNally.\n\nThe Teamsters quickly became the target of the EA. The Teamsters were one of the largest unions in Chicago. But since the Teamsters controlled the city's transportation network, the union's support was also critical to the success of any other union's job action. In early 1904, the Teamsters aligned all their contracts to expire simultaneously on May 1, 1905. The EA then passed a resolution on June 16, 1904, declaring that no employer would sign a contract with the Teamsters after May 1, 1905.\n\nOn December 15, 1904, 19 clothing cutters at Montgomery Ward went on strike to protest the company's use of nonunion subcontractors. The manager of the fabric cutting room for Montgomery Ward & Co. at the time of the initial incident was C.V. Boller. The Montgomery Ward company locked the remaining workers out. Sympathy strikes by several tailors' unions broke out, as did sympathy strikes by other unions. By April, 5,000 workers were on the picket line, with all 26 local members of the National Tailors' Association (a coalition of clothing manufacturers and retailers) struck.\n\nThe Teamsters engaged in a sympathy strike on April 6, 1905, adding another 10,000 members to the picket lines. Teamsters President Cornelius Shea targeted Montgomery Ward and Sears, Roebuck and Company in particular, as these were the leaders in the National Tailors' Association. The sympathy strike had not occurred earlier in the year for fear it would have imperiled the candidacy of Edward Fitzsimmons Dunne for Mayor of Chicago.\n\nViolence broke out and continued almost daily until mid-July. Riots occurred on April 7 when Montgomery Ward attempted to use wagons driven by strikebreakers to deliver raw materials and finished goods. The most serious that day involved 1,000 striking workers and sympathizers, who attacked several heavily guarded wagons on Union Street. On April 29, a crowd of 1,000 striking workers and sympathizers clashed with police, and three people were shot and two stabbed. Mayor Dunne immediately banned the carrying of firearms. On May 4, a riot involving more than 5,000 people coursed through the city's streets. Strikers hurled bricks and stones, and assaulted any African American or wagon driver caught on the streets. Police, strikers and strikebreakers used clubs and firearms against one another. During a stone-throwing melee on the Rush Street bridge, strikebreakers opened fire on striking workers, leading to one death. \"Slugging\"—the beating of non-union workers or union members who crossed picket lines—became common.\n\nThe EA mustered its substantial resources to break the Teamsters' support for the striking tailors. The EA collected $250,000 (about $6.7 million in 2017 dollars) from its members to hire strikebreakers. The EA also raised $1 million (about $27 million in 2017 dollars) to establish, on April 13, the Employers' Teaming Association-a new company which, within a matter of weeks, bought out a large number of team owners and imported hundreds of African American strikebreakers from St. Louis to work as teamsters and drive the wagons. Mark Morton, president of Morton Salt and an EA member, convinced the railroads to pressure the remaining team owners to lock out their Teamster members as well. In response, the unions organized a boycott of all banks involved in the fundraising efforts.\n\nWith the garment workers' strike all but forgotten, the tailors' union asked that the other unions end their sympathy strikes. The Teamsters, the critical union in the strike, agreed to do so if the employers would agree to rehire all striking workers. But on April 23, Montgomery Ward declared it would defer to the decision of the Employers' Association, and the EA announced a day later that no striking workers should be rehired.\n\nInfuriated, the Teamsters called another 25,000 members off the job on April 25, 1905, paralyzing grocery stores, warehouses, railway shippers, department stores and coal companies. On April 30, the EA and its members then sued nearly every union involved in the strike. Local and state courts issued numerous injunctions against the unions, ordering them to stop picketing and return to work. Historians point out that court actions strongly favored the employers. When a wagon owner refused to do business with Montgomery Ward for fear the Teamsters would picket him, a court forced the team owner to do business with the retailer or be found in contempt of court. In another case, a judge seated a grand jury whose foreman was A. A. McCormick, the reactionary publisher of the \"Chicago Evening Post\".\n\nThe writs were sweeping in nature. One of the first, if interpreted literally and enforced, would have stripped the unions of their rights to strike:\nOn April 29, 12 prominent labor leaders in Chicago—including Charles Dold, president of the Chicago Federation of Labor; Shea; and 10 other local Teamster presidents—were indicted on six counts of conspiracy to restrain trade, commit violence, and prevent citizens from obtaining work.\n\nThe unions appealed to President Theodore Roosevelt on May 7, asking him to investigate the causes of the strike. The unions also requested that the president refuse to send troops to Chicago before investigating the status of the strike first. On May 10, Dold, Shea and other strike leaders met with Roosevelt personally in Chicago. Roosevelt refused to mediate an end to the strike, denounced the use of violence in the strike, and warned the labor leaders to settle the strike quickly before federal military intervention was needed.\n\nWith no collective bargaining negotiations scheduled, much of the strike's activities occurred in the courts in May, June and July. Shea refused to appear in court to provide pre-trial testimony regarding the April 29 indictment. When threatened with jail for contempt of court, he finally appeared but answered all questions with variations of \"I don't know.\" The injunctions also began having an effect. In late May, nearly all the building trade unions in Chicago agreed to return to work, significantly weakening the strike.\n\nShea's handling of the strike came under fire from the executive board of the international Teamsters union. On May 27, the board removed Shea from day-to-day control of the strike and transferred that authority to itself.\n\nAfter these developments, talks to end the strike began. Agreement was reached on a wide range of issues between May 24 and June 2. But despite threats by Shea to call 8,000 truck drivers out on strike, clothing stores unaffiliated with the EA refused to break ranks and settle with the Teamsters. The strike continued.\n\nThe strike ended not through the efforts of the EA or the unions, but due to the allegations of graft made by John C. Driscoll. At the time, Driscoll was secretary (the highest officer) of the Team Owners' Association, the employer group which had locked out the Teamsters after the sympathy strike which began on April 6. On June 2, the grand jury led by McCormick heard testimony by Driscoll. Driscoll claimed that he had taken at least $10,000 in bribes from Thorne and executives at other companies to force the unions out on strike. Driscoll also alleged that the Teamsters and other unions had demanded bribes to end the strike, that the bribes had been delivered, and that Driscoll had skimmed portions of these bribes into his own pocket. $50,000 in canceled checks were produced in court to support Driscoll's claims. \n\nThe development was not unsurprising. Each side knew the other was taking bribes early in the strike. Charges of bribery were levied against the leaders of the strike as early as April 16, but were generally ignored. The unions levied their own accusations of bribery against the employers during legal hearings on May 12.\n\nThe evening of June 3, Thorne swore out arrest warrants for Shea on charges of criminal libel for making in-court accusations of bribery.\n\nThe arrest infuriated Shea. Late that evening, having made bail, he convened an emergency meeting of the Teamster executive board. Ensuring that primarily his supporters attended the meeting, Shea pushed through several resolutions calling for the end to peace talks, reaffirming support for the strike, and praising Shea's handling of the strike. Although negotiations with the employers had nearly reached complete agreement, Shea withdrew his negotiators and repudiated the tentative agreements which had been reached.\n\nShea was arrested again on June 5, this time for failing to pay bond regarding the June 3 conspiracy indictment.\n\nAlthough the bribery accusations undercut both sides, public support for the unions suffered most. While nearly every union continued to support the strike publicly, most sent their members back to work by the end of June. The Teamsters continued to support the strike, but various divisions of the union also went back to work in June and July. By August 1, 1905, the strike was over and the employers ended the lockout.\n\nThe strike significantly strengthened the EA, which in the next few years fiercely attacked the Teamsters and other unions for corruption. By the mid-1920s, unionization rates in Chicago had fallen dramatically, and even the once-powerful Chicago Teamsters unions had shrunk to a small, relatively ineffective force.\n\nThe strike also caused public support for unions throughout the U.S. to fall. By 1910, due to the publicity surrounding Driscoll's allegations as well as widespread labor-related violence, American labor unions had lost much of the sway over public opinion they once held. In many ways, some scholars argue, labor unions in the United States never recovered this support.\n\nNearly half the Teamster members who went on strike were not rehired. Most were blackballed and had to find work outside the city.\n\nCornelius Shea, although indicted three times, was never convicted of any crimes in connection with the 1905 strike. A serious challenge to his control of the Teamsters emerged in August 1905, but he was able to beat back the opposition through a combination of vote fraud and bribery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46743267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46743267", "title": "Abdul Ghafur Muhiuddin Shah of Pahang", "text": "Abdul Ghafur Muhiuddin Shah of Pahang\n\nSultan Abdul Ghafur Muhiuddin Shah ibni Almarhum Sultan Abdul Kadir Alauddin Shah (died 16 August 1614) is the 12th Sultan of Pahang who reigned from 1592 to 1614. Known as Raja Abdul Ghafur before his accession, he is the eldest son of the 10th Sultan of Pahang, Abdul Kadir Alauddin Shah by a junior wife. He was appointed as regent for his younger half-brother of a royal mother, Ahmad Shah II after the death of their father in 1590. He subsequently deposed his charge and assumed power two years later.\n\nIn 1612, he fled to Jelai, Pattani following a rebellion led by his younger son, Raja Alauddin. He returned to Pahang in 1614 only to be poisoned along with his eldest son and heir at Kuala Pahang. He was buried in Chandong Cemetery, Pekan and styled \"Marhum Pahang\" after his death, having had issue one son and one daughter by his Royal wives, and ten other children by commoners.\n\nRaja Abdul Ghafur was played by Jesdaporn Pholdee in the 2008 Thai movie \"Queens of Langkasuka\". He was depicted in the movie as the fiancé of Princess Ungu who came to defend Pattani during the reign of Ratu Hijau.\n"}
{"id": "3817514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3817514", "title": "Akabia ben Mahalalel", "text": "Akabia ben Mahalalel\n\nAkabia ben Mahalalel (), was a Jewish religious teacher, probably of the second tannaitic generation (1st and 2nd centuries).\n\nOf his early history nothing is known; there are no references to his teachers and comparatively few of his sayings have been preserved. The \"Mishnah\" portrays him as a man who fearlessly and persistently maintained opinions on some \"halakhot\", even in cases where different traditions were held by the majority of his colleagues, because those opinions were founded on traditions he had received from his predecessors. On one occasion the majority demanded that he renounce his divergent opinions, but he refused. It was even intimated to him that in the event of his compliance he would be elevated to the position of \"Av Beit Din\" (president of the court), but Akabia rejected the proposition, remarking, \"I would rather be called a fool all my lifetime than be a sinner for one moment.\" His traditional burial location is in Kfar Manda in the Lower Galilee.\n\nIn the course of the discussion of the halakah concerning the administration of \"the water of jealousy\" (\"Num.\" ), Akabia declared that, if the subject of the test was not a free-born Jewess, the test-water was not to be administered; while the majority declared a proselyte or an emancipated slave to be the equal of a free-born daughter in Israel. In support of their view, the majority cited a case in point, where the former associate presidents of the Sanhedrin, Shemaiah and Abtalion, had the test made on a freed woman; whereupon Akabia disdainfully exclaimed, \"Dugma hishḳuha.\" This might mean \"To one like themselves they gave to drink,\" and may be construed as an allusion to an old rumor to the effect that these associate presidents were themselves lineal descendants of proselytes; or it might mean \"They gave her a sham to drink.\" The memory of those chiefs being held in esteem, Akabia's insinuation gave offense; wherefore the sentence of \"nidduy\" (isolation, excommunication) was passed on him. This he bore to the end of his days rather than violate his convictions. However, before his death, he admonished his son to submit to the views of the majority, even in the cases where he himself had shown such persistent opposition. His son expressing surprise at so apparent an inconsistency, the dying sage replied: \"I have received my tradition from a majority of a school in my days, and so have my opponents. I was bound to conform to the tradition I had received; and so are they bound by their tradition. But thou hast heard the traditions both from myself and from my opponents; from a minority and from a majority, and it is proper for thee to reject the opinions of the individual and adopt the views of the majority\".\n\nAnother characteristic trait of Akabia was the great stress he laid on personal merit. When, on his deathbed, he was requested by his son to recommend him to the sages, he declined to do so. His son inquired whether his father had discovered in him any trait which rendered him unworthy of such recommendation; and Akabia's reply was, \"No! but thine own deeds will make thee welcome, or thine own deeds will make thee obnoxious\".\n\nAkabia's motto in life was: \"Remember whence thou hast come, whither thou goest, and before whom thou must be prepared to render an account of thy doings\". Beyond this maxim and the \"halakot\" enumerated above, nothing from him has been transmitted. As to his epoch scholars are divided. While some place him in the patriarchate of Hillel I (30 BC to 10 of the present era), and even somewhat earlier, others bring him down to the first tannaitic generation (10-80); still others believe that he flourished during the patriarchate of Gamaliel II (80-117). The circumstances and scholastic achievements of the second tannaitic generation render Akabia's excommunication more reasonable.\n\nThe decree of excommunication failed to obscure Akabia's merited fame; for his name reached subsequent generations surrounded by such a halo of glory as to throw doubt on the decree itself. \"God forbid,\" exclaims Judah b. Ilai, one of the \"tannaim\" of the fourth generation (139-165), \"that we should think that Akabia was excommunicated, for the Temple gates were never closed behind a man in Israel so great in wisdom and in the fear of sin as was Akabia ben Mahalalel\". This expression, which is based on the law forbidding an excommunicated person to enter the Temple court, was in later days taken literally, and gave rise to forced \"halakic\" discussions and comments, as well as to hypothetical speculations about the age of Akabia. Elsewhere it is said, \"Whoever asserts that Akabia was ever excommunicated will have to answer before the tribunal of heaven.\" This observation is wrongly attributed to Judah b. Betera I; and conclusions as to Akabia's early age are erroneously deduced therefrom.\n"}
{"id": "1335038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1335038", "title": "Albert Dekker", "text": "Albert Dekker\n\nAlbert Dekker (born Thomas Albert Ecke Van Dekker, December 20, 1905 – May 5, 1968) was an American character actor and politician best known for his roles in \"Dr. Cyclops\", \"The Killers\", \"Kiss Me Deadly\", and \"The Wild Bunch\". He is sometimes credited as Albert Van Dekker or Albert van Dekker.\n\nDekker was born in Brooklyn, New York, the only child of Thomas and Grace Ecke Van Dekker. He attended Richmond Hill High School, where he appeared in stage productions. He then attended Bowdoin College, where he majored in pre-med with plans to become a doctor. On the advice of a friend, he decided to pursue acting as a career instead. He made his professional acting debut with a Cincinnati stock company in 1927. Within a few months, Dekker was featured in the Broadway production of Eugene O'Neill's play \"Marco Millions\".\n\nAfter a decade of theatrical appearances, Dekker transferred to Hollywood in 1937 and made his first film, 1937's \"The Great Garrick\". He spent most of the rest of his acting career in the cinema but also returned to the stage from time to time.\n\nHe replaced Lee J. Cobb as Willy Loman in the original production of Arthur Miller's \"Death of a Salesman\", and during a five-year stint back on Broadway in the early 1960s, he played the Duke of Norfolk in Robert Bolt's \"A Man for All Seasons\".\n\nDekker appeared in some seventy films from the 1930s to the 1960s, but his four most famous screen roles were as a mad scientist in the 1940 horror film \"Dr. Cyclops\", as a criminal mastermind in \"The Killers\", as a dangerous dealer in atomic fuel in the 1955 film noir \"Kiss Me Deadly\", and as an unscrupulous railroad detective in Sam Peckinpah's Western \"The Wild Bunch\". In 1959 he played a convincing Texas Ranger Captain Rucker in \"The Wonderful Country\". He was rarely cast in romantic roles, but in the film \"Seven Sinners\", featuring a romance between Marlene Dietrich and John Wayne, Dietrich sails off with Dekker's character at the end of the film. Dekker's role as Pat Harrigan in \"The Wild Bunch\" would be his last screen appearance.\n\nOn April 4, 1929, Dekker married former actress Esther Guerini. The couple had two sons, John and Benjamin, and a daughter, Jan, before divorcing in 1964.\n\nIn April 1957, Dekker's 16-year-old son, John, shot himself with a .22 rifle at the family's home in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York. He had reportedly been working on a silencer for the rifle for a year. His death was ruled accidental.\n\nDekker's off-screen interest in politics led to his winning a seat in the California State Assembly for the 57th Assembly District in 1944. Dekker served as a Democratic member for the Assembly until 1946.\n\nDuring the McCarthy era he was an outspoken critic of U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy's tactics. As a result, Dekker was blacklisted in Hollywood and spent most of the blacklist period working on Broadway rather than Hollywood.\n\nOn May 5, 1968, Dekker was found dead in his Hollywood home by his fiancée, fashion model and future \"Love Boat\" creator Jeraldine Saunders. He was naked, kneeling in the bathtub, with a noose tightly wrapped around his neck and looped around the shower curtain rod. He was blindfolded, his wrists were handcuffed, there was a ball gag in his mouth, and two hypodermic needles were inserted in one arm. His body was covered in explicit words and drawings in red lipstick. \n\nMoney and camera equipment were missing, but there was no sign of forced entry. The coroner found no evidence of foul play and ruled his death accidental, the result of autoerotic asphyxiation. Dekker was cremated, and his remains interred at the Garden State Crematory in North Bergen, New Jersey.\n\nDekker has a star, in the motion picture category, on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6620 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n"}
{"id": "33400269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33400269", "title": "Antonio Bisaglia", "text": "Antonio Bisaglia\n\nAntonio Bisaglia (31 March 1929 – 24 June 1984) was an Italian politician, a member of Christian Democracy (Democrazia Cristiana, or DC).\n\nHe was born at Rovigo, the son of a railway worker. He entered Azione Cattolica and in 1951 he became national counsellor of Christian Democracy's youth movement. Bisaglia graduated in law at the University of Padua.\n\nIn 1963 he was elected for DC in the Italian Chamber of Deputies, a position he held until 1979, when he became a Senator. He was confirmed in the Italian Senate also in the 1983 general elections. Bisaglia had government positions for some eight years starting from 1972. He was Minister of Agriculture in Rumor V Cabinet, Minister of State Controlled Agencies in Moro IV, Moro V, Andreotti III, IV and V cabinets, and Minister of Industry in the first and second Cossiga governments, as well as in Forlani government of 1980.\n\nBisaglia began his national career as a collaborator and assistant of fellow Veneto DC politician Mariano Rumor. The alliance between the two fell in 1975, when Bisaglia, with the help of Flaminio Piccoli (DC leader from Trentino) put Rumor in minority in the \"Dorotei\" faction within DC that Rumor had himself founded. In 1980, after revelations from Italian Social Movement senator Pisanò, Bisaglia was involved into a scandal connected to oil affairs, together with Sereno Freato, former secretary of Aldo Moro (DC national leader – as well as main member of the \"Dorotei\" – and Italy's prime minister who had been killed in obscure circumstances by the Red Brigades in 1979). During a session of the Italian Parliament, Pisanò read a letter by political gossip journalist Mino Pecorelli, in which he asked money from Bisaglia. Pecorelli had been killed by mafia a few years before, and was also involved in the Moro affair, as well as in numerous other ones connected to other DC leader Giulio Andreotti, the masonic lodge Propaganda 2 and the Italian Secret Services. DC forced Bisaglia to resign from minister in December 1980.\n\nBisaglia died from unclear reasons in June 1984. According to the official reconstruction, he fell into the sea from his boat off Santa Margherita Ligure. At the time, he was president of DC Senators and the process for the oil scandal was being held. There was no autopsy, since (according to some sources) the body was taken off by order of Francesco Cossiga. Bisaglia's body was diagnosed to have \"immediately drowned\", although the sea was calm and he was a good swimmer. His brother, a priest, also drowned in 1992 in a lake near Domegge. At the time, he was investigating in the former minister's death and, according to one reconstruction, he had come to Cadore to ask the pope (who was in vacation in the area) dispensation from the confessional seal to reveal what he had discovered. Other people who were sojourning in Cadore when the priest died included Giulio Andreotti, Francesco Cossiga and Propaganda 2 Grand Master, Licio Gelli. Bisaglia former personal secretary, Gino Mazzolaio, died in the same circumstance in the Adige River the following year. Another person connected to Bisaglia who died at the time was Ugo Niutta, whom the minister had chosen as boss of Farmitalia and who shared with him knowledges of several Propaganda Due affiliates: he officially committed suicide in London, a few time after his cognizant Roberto Calvi, a banker whose suicide was simulated in that city by order of Michele Sindona, a criminal associated with Andreotti.\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "12987773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12987773", "title": "Astronautical hygiene", "text": "Astronautical hygiene\n\nAstronautical hygiene evaluates, and mitigates, hazards and health risks to those working in low-gravity environments. The discipline of astronautical hygiene includes such topics as the use and maintenance of life support systems, the risks of the extravehicular activity, the risks of exposure to chemicals or radiation, the characterization of hazards, human factor issues, and the development of risk management strategies. Astronautical hygiene works side by side with space medicine to ensure that astronauts are healthy and safe when working in space. \n\nWhen astronauts travel in space, they are exposed to numerous hazards, such as radiation, microbes in the spacecraft, and planetary surface toxic dust, etc. During a space voyage, astronautical hygienists work on collecting data concerning a multitude of subjects. Once the data has been collected, they then analyze the data to determine, among other things, the risks to human health due to exposure to the various chemicals within the spacecraft as well as other toxins during their flight. From that, the hygienists can determine the appropriate measures to take in order to mitigate exposure of the astronauts to the harmful chemicals. \n\nOnce on the surface of a moon or planet, the astronautical hygienist would also collect data on the nature of the dust, and the levels of radiation on the surface. From this analysis, they would determine the risks to the astronauts' health and will draw conclusions as how to prevent or control exposure. \n\nThe main roles of the astronautical hygienist are as follows:\n\n\nThe Space Shuttle is to be replaced in 2023 by a new spacecraft, the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle, as carrier of astronauts to the International Space Station. Orion will contain potentially hazardous material such as ammonia, hydrazine, freon, nitrogen tetroxide, and volatile organic compounds and it will be necessary to prevent or control exposure to these substances during flight. Astronautical hygienists in the United States together with colleagues in the European Union, individual United Kingdom astronautical hygienists and space medicine experts are developing measures that will mitigate exposure to these substances.\n\nDr. John R. Cain (a UK government health risk management expert) was the first scientist to define the new discipline of astronautical hygiene. The establishment of the UK Space Agency and the UK Space Life and Biomedical Sciences Association (UK Space LABS) see the development and application of the principles of astronautical hygiene as an important means to protect the health of astronauts working (and eventually living) in space.\n\nCleaning and waste disposal issues arise when dealing with low gravity environments. On the International Space Station, there are no showers, and astronauts instead take short sponge baths, with one cloth used to wash, and another used to rinse. Since surface tension causes water and soap bubbles to adhere to the skin, very little water is needed. Special non-rinsing soap is used, as well as special non-rinsing shampoos. Since a flush toilet would not work in low gravity environments, a special toilet was designed, that has suction capability. While the design is nearly the same, the concept uses the flow of air, rather than water. In the case of the space shuttle, waste water is vented overboard into space, and solid waste is compressed, and removed from the storage area once the shuttle returns to earth. The current toilet model was first flown on STS-54 in 1993, and features an unlimited storage capacity, compared to only 14-day capacity of the original shuttle toilets, and the new model has an odor-free environment.\n\nToxic gases are produced as an off-gassing from the astronauts and non-metallic materials e.g. surface coatings, adhesives, elastomers, solvents, cleaning agents, heat exchanger liquids etc. Above specific concentrations, if inhaled, the gases could affect the ability of the crew to carry out their duties effectively.\n\nMost of the toxicological data on gas exposure is based on the 8-hour work period of the terrestrial worker and is therefore unsuitable for spacecraft work. New exposure times (astronautical hygiene data) have had to be established for space missions where exposure can be uninterrupted for up to 2 weeks or longer with no daily or weekend periods.\n\nExposure limits are based on:\n\nIn normal conditions, there are trace contaminant gases such as ammonia from normal off-gassing at ambient temperatures and at elevated temperatures. Other gases arise from the breathing gas supply reservoirs and crew members themselves. In emergencies, gases can arise from overheating, spills, a rupture in the coolant loop (ethylene glycol) and from the pyrolysis of non-metallic components. Carbon monoxide is a major concern for space crews; this was evident during the Apollo missions. The emitted trace gases can be controlled using lithium hydroxide filters to trap carbon dioxide and activated carbon filters to trap other gases.\n\nGases in the cabin can be tested using gas chromatography, mass spectrometry and infra-red spectrophotometry. Samples of air from the spacecraft are examined both before and after flight for their gas concentrations. The activated carbon filters can be examined for evidence of trace gases. The concentrations measured can be compared with the appropriate exposure limits. If the exposures are high then the risks to health increase. The ongoing sampling of the hazardous substances is essential so that appropriate action can be taken if exposure is high.\n\nA large number of volatile substances detected during flight are mostly within their threshold limit values and NASA Spacecraft Maximum Allowable Concentration Limits. If spacecraft cabin exposure to specific chemicals is below their TLVs and SMACs then it is expected that the risks to health following inhalation exposure will be reduced.\n\nSMACs provide guidance on chemical exposures during normal as well as emergency operations aboard spacecraft. Short-term SMACs refer to concentrations of airborne substances such as a gas and vapor that will not comprise the performance of specific tasks by astronauts during emergency conditions or cause serious toxic effects. Long-term SMACs are intended to avoid adverse health effects and to prevent any noticeable changes in the crew's performance under continuous exposure to chemicals for as long as 180 days.\n\nAstronautical hygiene data needed for developing the SMACs include:\n\nLunar dust or regolith is the layer of particles on the Moon's surface and is approximately <100 um. The grain shapes tend to be elongated. Inhalation exposure to this dust can cause breathing difficulties because the dust is toxic. It can also cloud astronauts' visors when working on the Moon's surface. Furthermore, it adheres to spacesuits both mechanically (because of barbed shapes) and electrostatically. During Apollo, the dust was found to cause wear in the fabric of the spacesuit.\n\nDuring lunar exploration, it will be necessary to evaluate the risks of exposure to the moon dust and thereby instigate the appropriate exposure controls. Required measurements may include measuring exospheric-dust concentrations, surface electric fields, dust mass, velocity, charge, and its plasma characteristics.\n\nThe extent of the inflammatory response in the lung will depend on where the lunar dust particles are deposited. In 1G deposition, the more central airways will reduce the transport of the fine particles to the lung periphery. On the Moon with fractional gravity, the inhaled fine particles will be deposited in more peripheral regions of the lung. Therefore, because of the reduced sedimentation rate in lunar gravity, fine particles of dust will deposit in the alveolar region of the lung. This will exacerbate the potential for lung damage.\n\nThe use of high-gradient magnetic separation techniques should be developed to remove dust from the spacesuits following exploration as the fine fraction of the lunar dust is magnetic. Furthermore, vacuums can be used to remove dust from spacesuits.\n\nMass spectrometry has been used to monitor spacecraft cabin air quality. The results obtained can then be used to assess the risks during spaceflight for example, by comparing the concentrations of VOCs with their SMACs. If the levels are too high then appropriate remedial action will be required to reduce the concentrations and the risks to health.\n\nDuring spaceflight, there will be the transfer of microbes between crew members. Several bacterial associated diseases were experienced by the crew in Skylab 1. The microbial contamination in the Skylab was found to be very high. \"Staphylococcus aureus\" and \"Aspergillus\" spp have commonly been isolated from the air and surfaces during several space missions. The microbes do not sediment in microgravity which results in persisting airborne aerosols and high microbial densities in cabin air in particular if the cabin air filtering systems are not well maintained. During one mission an increase in the number and spread of fungi and pathogenic streptococci were found.\n\nUrine collection devices build up the bacterium \"Proteus mirabilis\", which is associated with urinary tract infection. For this reason, astronauts may be susceptible to urinary tract infection. An example is the Apollo 13 mission, during which the lunar module pilot experienced an acute urinary tract infection which required two weeks of antibiotic therapy to resolve.\n\nBiofilm that may contain a mixture of bacteria and fungi have the potential to damage electronic equipment by oxidising various components e.g. copper cables. Such organisms flourish because they survive on the organic matter released from the astronaut's skin. Organic acids produced by microbes, in particular fungi, can corrode steel, glass and plastic. Furthermore, because of the increase in exposure to radiation on a spacecraft there are likely to be more microbial mutations.\n\nBecause of the potential for microbes to cause infection in the astronauts and to be able to degrade various components that may be vital for the functioning of the spacecraft, it is important that the risks are assessed and, where appropriate, manage the levels of microbial growth controlled by the use of good astronautical hygiene. For example, by frequently sampling the space-cabin air and surfaces to detect early signs of a rise in microbial contamination, keeping surfaces clean by the use of disinfected clothes, by ensuring that all equipment is well maintained in particular the life support systems and by regular vacuuming of the spacecraft to remove dust etc. It is likely that during the first manned missions to Mars that the risks from microbial contamination could be underestimated unless the principles of good astronautical hygiene practice are applied. Further research in this field is therefore needed so that the risks of exposure can be evaluated and the necessary measures to mitigate microbial growth are developed.\n\nThere are over one hundred strains of bacteria and fungi that have been identified from manned space missions. These microorganisms survive and propagate in space. Much effort is being made to ensure that the risks from exposure to the microbes are significantly reduced. Spacecraft are sterilized as good control practice by flushing with antimicrobial agents such as ethylene oxide and methyl chloride, and astronauts are quarantined for several days prior to a mission. However, these measures only reduce the microbe populations rather than eliminate them. Microgravity may increase the virulence of specific microbes. It is therefore important that the mechanisms responsible for this problem are studied and the appropriate controls are implemented to ensure that astronauts, in particular, those that are immunocompromised, are not affected.\n\nThe work of Cain (\"Spaceflight\" Dec 2007) and others have seen the need to understand the hazards and risks of working in a low gravity environment. The general effects on the body of space flight or reduced gravity for example, as may occur on the Moon or during the exploration of Mars include changed physical factors such as decreased weight, fluid pressure, convection and sedimentation. These changes will affect the body fluids, the gravity receptors and the weight-bearing structures. The body will adapt to these changes over the time spent in space. There will also be psychosocial changes caused by traveling in the confined space of a spacecraft. Astronautical hygiene (and space medicine) needs to address these issues, in particular, the likely behavioral changes to the crew otherwise the measures developed to control the potential health hazards and risks will not be sustained. Any decrease in communication, performance and problem solving, for example, could have devastating effects.\n\nDuring space exploration, there will be the potential for contact dermatitis to develop in particular if there is exposure to skin sensitisers such as acrylates. Such skin disease could jeopardise a mission unless appropriate measures are taken to identify the source of the exposure, to assess the health risks, and thereby determine the means to mitigate exposure.\n\nFans, compressors, motors, transformers, pumps etc. on the International Space Station (ISS) all generate noise. As more equipment is required on the space station, there is a potential for more noise. Astronaut Tom Jones indicated the noise was more of an issue in the earlier days of the space station when astronauts wore hearing protection. Today, hearing protection is not required and sleeping chambers are soundproofed.\n\nThe Russian space program has never given a high priority to the noise levels experienced by its cosmonauts (e.g. on Mir the noise levels reached 70–72 dB). Less than 75 decibels are unlikely to cause hearing loss. See Noise-induced hearing loss for more information. This could result in hazard warning alarms not being heard against the background noise. To reduce the noise risks NASA engineers built hardware with inbuilt noise reduction. A depressurized pump producing 100 dB can have the noise levels reduced to 60 dB by fitting four isolation mounts. The use of hearing protectors are not encouraged because they block out alarm signals. More research is necessary in this field as well as in other astronautical hygiene areas e.g. measures to reduce the risks of exposure to radiation, methods to create artificial gravity, more sensitive sensors to monitor hazardous substances, improved life support systems and more toxicological data on the Martian and lunar dust hazards.\n\nSpace radiation consists of high energy particles such as protons, alpha and heavier particles originating from such sources as galactic cosmic rays, energetic solar particles from solar flares and trapped radiation belts. Space station crew exposures will be much higher than those on Earth and unshielded astronauts may experience serious health effects if unprotected. Galactic cosmic radiation is extremely penetrating and it may not be possible to build shields of sufficient depth to prevent or control exposure.\n\nThe Earth's magnetic field is responsible for the formation of the trapped radiation belts that surround Earth. The ISS orbits at between and , known as a Low Earth Orbit (LEO). Trapped radiation doses in LEO decrease during solar maximum and increase during solar minimum. Highest exposures occur in the South Atlantic Anomaly region.\n\nThis radiation originates from outside the solar system and consists of ionized charged atomic nuclei from hydrogen, helium and uranium. Due to its energy the galactic cosmic radiation is very penetrating. Thin to moderate shielding is effective in reducing the projected equivalent dose but as shield thickness increases, shield effectiveness drops.\n\nThese are injections of energetic electrons, protons, alpha particles into interplanetary space during solar flare eruptions. During periods of maximum solar activity, the frequency and intensity of solar flares will increase. The solar proton events generally occur only once or twice a solar cycle.\n\nThe intensity and spectral disruption of SPEs have a significant impact on shield effectiveness. The solar flares occur without much warning so they are difficult to predict. SPEs will pose the greatest threat to unprotected crews in polar, geo-stationary or interplanetary orbits. Fortunately, most SPEs are short lived (less than 1 to 2 days) which allows for small volume \"storm shelters\" to be feasible.\n\nRadiation hazards may also come from man-made sources for example, medical investigations, radio-isotopic power generators or from small experiments as on Earth. Lunar and Martian missions may include either nuclear reactors for power or related nuclear propulsion systems. Astronautical hygienists will need to assess the risks from these other sources of radiation and take appropriate action to mitigate exposure.\n\nLaboratory tests reported in the Journal of Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion indicate that a magnetic \"umbrella\" could be developed to deflect harmful space radiation away from the spacecraft. Such an \"umbrella\" would protect astronauts from the super-fast charged particles that stream away from the Sun. It would provide a protective field around the spacecraft similar to the magnetosphere that envelops the Earth. This form of control against solar radiation will be necessary if man is to explore the planets and reduce the health risks from exposure to the deadly effects of radiation. More research is necessary to develop and test a practical system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39740527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39740527", "title": "BigBrain", "text": "BigBrain\n\nBigBrain is a freely accessible high-resolution 3D digital atlas of the human brain, released in June 2013 by a team of researchers at the Montreal Neurological Institute and the German Forschungszentrum Jülich and is part of the European Human Brain Project. The isotropic 3D spatial resolution of the BigBrain atlas is 20 µm, much finer than the typical 1 mm resolution of other existing 3D models of the human brain such as the Allen Brain Atlas. In 2014, BigBrain was cited in the top 10 MIT Technology Review.\n\nThe atlas was created from the brain of an unidentified 65-year-old man who died with no known brain pathology. His brain, after being removed from the skull, was first scanned using an MRI machine, then embedded in paraffin and sliced into 7,404 20 µm thick sections using a large-scale microtome. After each section was removed, the uncut face was photographed in order to provide an additional reference for removing distortion. The brain sections were placed on large glass slides and then stained for cell bodies using the Merker method, a process that causes the grey matter in the brain to be darkly stained while leaving the white matter uncolored. The stained sections were scanned and digitized using a flatbed scanner at 2400dpi, creating a one terabyte raw record. The acquisition process took about 1,000 hours of labor.\n\nThe resulting digital images were then processed by human operators to remove artifacts, and by software to align them with the reference images and with neighboring sections, thereby correcting distortions that inevitably arise during histological processing. The corrected data were then assembled into a three-dimensional computer model with a spatial isotropic 3D resolution of 20 µm. The atlas took five years to complete. The database for the atlas is accessible on the web at https://bigbrain.loris.ca/main.php. Announced plans include mapping additional brains and providing tools to allow brain scans from medical patients to be aligned to the BigBrain structure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "525160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525160", "title": "Brainiac (character)", "text": "Brainiac (character)\n\nBrainiac is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, usually as an adversary of Superman, his second deadliest archenemy after Lex Luthor, and a frequent enemy of the Justice League.\n\nBrainiac is typically depicted as an extraterrestrial cyborg or android. He is one of Superman's primary enemies, and is responsible for shrinking and stealing Kandor, the capital city of Superman's home planet Krypton. In some continuities, he is also responsible for Krypton's destruction. Due to multiple revisions of DC's continuity, several variations of Brainiac have appeared. Most incarnations of Brainiac depict him as a green-skinned being in humanoid form. He is bald, with a set of linked electrode-like objects (sometimes glowing) protruding from his skull.\n\nHis name is a portmanteau of the words \"brain\" and \"maniac\". In 2009, Brainiac was ranked as IGN's 17th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nBrainiac first appeared in \"Action Comics\" #242 (July 1958), and was created by Otto Binder and Al Plastino.\n\nFirst appearing in \"Action Comics\" #242 (July 1958), Brainiac is a bald, green-skinned humanoid who arrived on Earth and shrank various cities, including Metropolis, storing them in bottles with the intent of using them to restore the then-unnamed planet he ruled. He is originally notable only for his having shrunk the bottle city of Kandor, for having a shrinking ray, and for using a force field.\n\nIn subsequent appearances in this early period, Brainiac is used mostly as a plot device rather than as a featured villain of the month. Brainiac's next appearance is mostly behind the scenes, when he tries to kill Lois Lane and Lana Lang, prompting Superman to give Lois and Lana superpowers. But the villain remains unseen except as a plot twist at the end of the story. Brainiac's next appearance in \"Superman's Return to Krypton\" in \"Superman\" #141 (November 1960) displays how the villain stole the bottle city of Kandor, which is ironically and tragically the only city on Krypton that believes Jor-El's warning of doom for the planet, and had already built a space ark within the city to save the population. Brainiac's next present-day appearance is in \"Action Comics\" #275 (April 1961), which shows the villain planning to defeat Superman by exposing him to both red and green kryptonite, giving Superman a third eye on the back of his head, forcing him to wear various hats to hide it. Superman soon defeats Brainiac and sends him off into the distant past. This is the first in-story appearance of Brainiac's iconic red diode/electrode-like objects atop his head, which had previously appeared on the cover of his first appearance in \"Action Comics\" #242 (July 1958), but were not shown in the actual story. In \"Superboy\" #106 (July 1963), Superman as a baby meets Brainiac and it is explained that Brainiac looks the same as he has a 200-year life span. It is revealed that he came from a planet called Bryak and after a voyage in space, he returns to find everybody dead from a plague. He intends to get people from other planets (in shrunken cities, and he has a growth ray) to repopulate Bryak, where he will rule them.\n\nBrainiac's legacy was revealed in \"Action Comics\" #276 (May 1961), in a \"Legion of Super-Heroes\" back-up story. This story introduced a green-skinned, blond-haired teenager named Querl Dox, or Brainiac 5, who claimed to be Brainiac's 30th century descendant. Unlike his ancestor, Brainiac 5 used his \"twelfth-level intellect\" for the forces of good and joined the Legion alongside Supergirl, with whom he fell in love. His home planet was given variously as Bryak, Yod or Colu.\n\nIn \"Superman\" #167 (February 1964), it was retconned that Brainiac was a machine created by the Computer Tyrants of Colu as a spy for them to invade other worlds, for which he was given a non-computer appearance. Brainiac's distinctive gridwork of red diodes across his head are also explained. He was created with visible \"electric terminals of his sensory 'nerves'\" that he cannot function without. Luthor discovers that the Computers could have given him a twelfth-level intellect, but gave him a tenth-level, the same as them, so he would not try to dominate them. Luthor frees Brainiac from a prison on another world and increases his intelligence; however, he implants a timer that will make Brainiac black out so the computer does not betray him, as only Luthor can reset the timer and if Brainiac tries to tamper with it, one touch will cause an explosion. However, Brainiac tricks Luthor by making a device that hypnotizes Luthor, who removes the timer and forgets Brainiac is a computer. Explaining the 1961 introduction of Brainiac's descendant Brainiac 5, his biological disguise included an adopted \"son\", a young Coluan boy who was given the name \"Brainiac 2\". In the same issue, the letter column contained a \"special announcement\" explaining that the change in the characterization of Brainiac was being made \"in deference\" to the \"Brainiac Computer Kit\", a toy computer created by Edmund Berkeley and based on the Geniac that predated the creation of the comic book character.\n\nThe boy, whose name was Vril Dox, went on to lead a revolt against the Computer Tyrants, eventually destroying them. Brainiac sees a monument to this when he returns to Colu.\n\nAt some indeterminate point in time, Brainiac fled into the 30th century. Developing the ability to absorb and manipulate massive amounts of stellar energy, he remade himself as \"Pulsar Stargrave\". He became a powerful enemy of the Legion of Super-Heroes, and once masqueraded as Brainiac 5's biological father. In current continuity, Brainiac's connection to Pulsar Stargrave remains an open question, one even Brainiac 5 has yet to resolve.\n\nIn the 1980s, DC Comics attempted to re-define several aspects of its \"Superman\" series in order to boost sagging sales. At the same time as Lex Luthor acquired his green-and-purple Lexorian battlesuit, Brainiac was re-envisioned (under the auspices of writer Marv Wolfman and artist Gil Kane). In \"Action Comics\" #544 (June 1983), Brainiac had constructed a giant, artificial, computer-controlled planet and used it in his latest attempt to destroy Superman. His defeat at the hands of the Man of Steel left him trapped at the center of the planet, unable to escape. He was forced to make a nearby star, Epsilon 4, explode in a nova in order to destroy the machine-world. It, however, also dissolved Brainiac's humanoid body into a stream of sentient molecules that, after a fantastic voyage through time and space, returned to the present and regestated as a living computer with no trace of human emotions and a mind stooped in logic. His new body (designed by Ed Hannigan) had the appearance of a skeleton of living metal with a grey (sometimes iridescent), honeycomb-patterned \"braincase.\" He also created a starship to house his new body which was actually an extension of himself; the ship was shaped like his own skull, with metal tentacles dangling from it that he could manipulate at will. Brainiac retained this appearance until after the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" miniseries.\n\nThe Silver/Bronze Age Brainiac met his end in the \"Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?\" story line that closed out the Pre-\"Crisis\" Superman chronology. Lex Luthor found Brainiac's robotic head and was fused with it, making him immortal to everything. Brainiac took control of Luthor's body and sought to destroy Superman once and for all, teaming up with the Legion of Super-Villains. Fighting Brainiac's control, Luthor begged a superpowered Lana Lang to kill him; she complied by breaking his neck. Though Luthor died, Brainiac was able to retain control of the body for a little while before rigor mortis set in and his brain was forced to leave it. \"Propelled by sheer malice\", the skull crawled a few inches before finally running down.\n\nIn the Post-\"Crisis\" DC Universe, Brainiac's history was completely rewritten. The Post-\"Crisis\" version of Brainiac was now a radical Coluan scientist called Vril Dox who, having attempted to overthrow the Computer Tyrants of Colu, was sentenced to death. In his last moments before disintegration, his consciousness was attracted light years away to Milton Moses Fine, a human sideshow mentalist who worked under the alias \"The Amazing Brainiac\". Needing cranial fluid to maintain his possession of Fine, Dox went on a murder spree. He discovered that Fine had genuine psychic powers and was thus a metahuman, which he frequently wielded against Superman.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Brainiac returned in the \"Panic in the Sky\" storyline. He seized control of Warworld and manipulated Maxima into assisting him. Then he brainwashed Supergirl and the alien warrior Draaga before capturing Metron and setting off for Earth. Orion and Lightray of New Genesis attacked Warworld, but they were quickly taken down by Maxima and Supergirl. Brainiac sent the mental image of the New Gods captured to Superman in order to taunt him, and he also sent his \"headship\" (a green-hued variant of the Pre-\"Crisis\" skull-like ship) to Earth in a punitive expedition.\n\nThese acts prompted Superman to go on the offense, rather than wait for the inevitable invasion. He gathered a coalition of most of the world's superheroes and launched a preemptive strike at Warworld before it could arrive on Earth. A small, elite force was left behind for any scouting forces that would be sent ahead. Superman led the attack on Warworld, where Supergirl and Draaga managed to shrug off their brainwashing and rally to Superman (although Draaga was killed in the fighting). Brainiac briefly took control of some of Earth's heroes, but it was not enough to turn the tide. Maxima would shortly switch sides in the fighting too, perceiving Brainiac as the true villain at last. Flash, Maxima, and the Metal Men attacked him in his lair, where Maxima managed to lobotomize him (but was stopped short of killing him). His vegetative body was taken back to New Genesis for observation.\n\nBrainiac would next emerge about a year after the death and return of Superman. After a dead body appeared in Superman's tomb, prompting the world to wonder if the Superman who was flying around was the original or a fake, Superman began to track down all of his foes who might be capable of such a hoax. While Brainiac was initially eliminated as a suspect, he soon turned out to be the true culprit, creating the illusion even in his comatose state on New Genesis. He managed to revive himself there and returned to Earth in secret. While hidden, he created even more delusions, causing Superman to question his very sanity before realizing who was really at fault. Superman and Brainiac squared off in Metropolis, where Superman taunted the evil villain, claiming that at heart he was really just Milton Moses Fine, a cheap entertainer. This caused some break in Brainiac's mind where Fine's personality reasserted himself, burying Brainiac's. Fine was then escorted off to a psychiatric facility.\n\nDuring a later skirmish with Superman in Metropolis, Milton Moses Fine's body was irreparably damaged, leaving Brainiac with only a short time to live. In order to preserve his life, he concocted an elaborate scheme by having an agent of his, a Coluan named Prin Vnok, use a time machine to travel to the End of Time itself and retrieve Doomsday, who had been left there by Superman and Waverider to ensure that he would never be a threat again, and use Doomsday as a new host body.\n\nSeconds before the forces of entropy destroyed him forever, Doomsday was taken to safety by Vnok and returned to Colu. There, a terminally-wounded Brainiac transferred his consciousness into Doomsday's body, temporarily becoming the most powerful being in the universe; a genius psychic mind inside an unstoppable, indestructible titan. However, Doomsday's own raging mind would eventually overwhelm Brainiac's will, and he reacted too quickly for Brainiac and Vnok to erase his mind using chemical or psionic treatments, forcing Brainiac to find another body. While still lodged in Doomsday's head, Brainiac decided to acquire a sample of human DNA that he could modify with Doomsday's DNA to create a new version of Doomsday that did not possess the creature's mind. Brainiac chose to use Pete Ross and Lana Lang's newborn baby, born eight weeks premature-and at that moment being transported by Superman to the best Neo-Natal Intensive Care Unit in the country-as the template for his new body. He intercepted Superman during the trip to the hospital and stole the baby to hurt his long-time foe, correctly deducing that it was the child of someone close to Superman. Superman thwarted Brainiac's plot by driving him out of Doomsday's body with the use of a telepathy-blocking 'psi-blocker' that he had used in his last battle, forcing Brainiac out of Doomsday and leaving him with no other option but to adopt a recently designed robotic body, dubbed Brainiac 2.5, where he himself believed would be forever trapped, as he could not abandon it.\n\nAt the turn of the millennium, Brainiac 2.5 revealed that he had placed a sleeper virus in LexCorp's Y2K bug safeguards. This virus was intended to dramatically boost his abilities. However, the virus instead allowed his upgraded future self, Brainiac 13 (or \"B-13\"), to travel from the 64th century to the present day and take control of Brainiac 2.5's body.\n\nBrainiac 13 then began transforming Metropolis into the 64th century version of the city, which he controlled, and also began upgrading Metallo into a giant-sized version of himself. Brainiac 13 then took control of several android superheroes, such as the Red Tornado and Hourman, and used them against Superman. The Metal Men's responsometers were able to protect them from his programming, and allowed them to help defeat Metallo.\n\nDuring a fight with the Eradicator (who was attempting to 'hijack' the B13 virus and use it for its own ends), Superman discovered that Brainiac 13 could not cope with Kryptonian technology, due to incompatibility issues. This gave Superman a plan to stop Brainiac 13's scheme. With the aid of the rebuilt Kelex, Superman tricked Luthor into connecting a Kryptonian battlesuit to one of Brainiac 13's power conduits. Kelex then reactivated the Red Tornado to help Superman break Brainiac 13 down into his respective nanobots and trap him in the suit.\n\nBrainiac 13 was able to work with Brainiac 2.5—now transferred into the aged body of Lena Luthor—and prepared a tactic against Imperiex for the upcoming Imperiex War. The Brainiacs successfully engineered Imperiex's defeat, allowing Brainiac 13 to absorb Imperiex's power and use it to overpower the combined heroes and villains of the universe while simultaneously devastating both Earth and Apokolips. Brainiac 13 planned to use the power he stole from Imperiex to conquer the universe and reshape it in his image, and is made so powerful by the absorption that none of the heroes, not even Superman, can hope to damage him. However, with help from Lex's temporal displacement technology and Darkseid's Boom Tube technology boosted by magic supplied by Tempest and the Amazons, Superman was able to destroy Brainiac 13 and Imperiex by sending them through a temporal Boom tube where they were annihilated in the Big Bang. Brainiac 13 had his body disintegrated and the remnants of his mind scattered across sixty trillion light years, finally killing the chronologically last known version of Brainiac.\n\nAfter the death of Brainiac 13, Superman discovered that the version of Krypton he previously visited via the Phantom Zone was in fact a trap created by Brainiac 13. Having been defeated by Kryptonian technology, Brainiac 13 had traveled back in time to the real Krypton prior to its destruction. There, he stole the Eradicator matrix and Jor-El's diaries, and created a false Krypton based on Jor-El's favorite period in history.\n\nSometime later, Superman traveled into the future and battled Brainiac 12. He learned that everything Brainiac 13 did in the past was designed to ensure things reached the point where Brainiac 13 would be created. Brainiac 12's defeat before his upgrade apparently reversed the advances Brainiac 13 had made to Metropolis.\n\nAround the time of the \"\" event, a future version of Brainiac, called Brainiac 6, used his \"granddaughter\", Brainiac 8 (also known as Indigo), to kill Donna Troy in order to ensure the fate of Colu. Indigo then infiltrated the Outsiders until she attacked the team, along with Brainiac 6 and his allies, Lex Luthor, and a brainwashed Superboy, who had attacked the Teen Titans. In the ensuing battle, Indigo died and Superboy broke away from the brainwashing, while Luthor escaped. While his ship was destroyed, Brainiac's condition and whereabouts after the battle are unknown.\n\nLater stories revealed that elements of Brainiac's Pre-\"Crisis\" history occurred in the Post-\"Crisis\" character's history prior to his possession of Milton Moses Fine and his first encounter with Superman. The citizens of Kandor recall that Brainiac stole their city from Krypton, and not the alien wizard Tolos.\n\n\"History of the DC Universe\" mentions his defeat by the Omega Men, although this is not seen in \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" itself, and noted a second Brainiac was created in a laboratory on Earth two years later. In the \"Silver Age: JLA\" one-shot, the Injustice League discovered numerous shrunken alien cities found in Brainiac's abandoned spaceship.\n\nBrainiac later reappeared as a swarm of interlinked nanotechnological units. Its operation was to sabotage a Waynetech research facility accomplished by infecting Metallo with a computer virus and controlling him from orbit. Superman and Batman tracked Brainiac's signal to an orbital facility and attacked. Brainiac's nanoswarm body was destroyed, though he had infected the Metal Men during their previous encounter with Metallo. Brainiac proceeded to use them to acquire a prototype OMAC unit, which Bruce Wayne had developed through the use of Brainiac 13 nanotechnology. Superman and Batman destroyed the OMAC body with the aid of the Metal Men, after the Metal Men overcame Brainiac's control.\n\nFollowing revisions to Superman's continuity in \"Infinite Crisis\" and \"Action Comics\" #850, Brainiac reappeared in a self-titled five-part story arc in \"Action Comics\". In \"Action Comics\" #866 (August 2008), a Brainiac robot probe (resembling his skeleton-esque Pre-\"Crisis\" incarnation, and mistaken for the real Brainiac by Clark) arrives on Earth and battles Superman. After the probe is defeated, information about Superman's blood is sent to the original Brainiac. As Brainiac wakes up, his computer announces \"Attempt #242 in progress\", a reference to Brainiac's first appearance in \"Action Comics\" #242, and to the many encounters between Brainiac and Superman. In the following issue, Supergirl reveals to Superman that Brainiac shrunk the Kryptonian city of Kandor and placed it in a bottle, and that all previous incarnations of Brainiac that Superman has encountered, were just probes, clones, and nanite-controlled bodies. She notes that no one has ever actually seen Brainiac. Inspired by Supergirl's story, Superman attempts to find Brainiac and stop him. He heads to a world under attack by Brainiac just in time to be caught in a supernova as Brainiac destroys the system's star and the populated world along with. The supernova knocks Superman out, and he is caught and brought onto Brainiac's ship.\n\nSuperman escapes from his imprisonment and sees Brainiac emerging from his \"bio-shell\". This version of Brainiac resembles a much larger and more muscular version of the original, Pre-\"Crisis\" Brainiac, and has motives similar to the \"\" incarnation of the character in that he travels the universe and steals the knowledge of various alien cultures, abducting and shrinking cities from each planet as samples, and then destroys the planet so that the value of the destroyed civilization's knowledge is increased. Superman attacks Brainiac, but Brainiac manages to overpower the Man of Steel before restraining him with the help of his ship's internal systems. Brainiac inserts the subdued Superman into a machine that allows him to read the Kryptonian's mind, with the intent of assimilating his brain. Brainiac's ship then travels to Earth and prepares to abduct the city of Metropolis.\n\nBrainiac successfully steals Metropolis, and prepares to fire a missile that will destroy the Sun and the Earth itself. Supergirl ends up captured along with the rest of Metropolis, but Superman breaks out of his restraints again and frees her. Supergirl stops the missile, while Superman battles Brainiac. Brainiac appears to have the advantage in physical combat yet again, but Superman knocks Brainiac out of his ship and into a swamp, where Brainiac is overwhelmed by the microscopic organisms covering his body. Superman uses this distraction to defeat Brainiac. While Superman frees the cities of Metropolis and Kandor, the villain launches a missile to the Kent farm in an act of spite. The farm is destroyed, and Jonathan Kent suffers a fatal heart attack because of it. Brainiac is brought to a top-secret military base, where the imprisoned Lex Luthor is assigned to discover his secrets. Luthor eventually manages to use Brainiac's connection to his ship to kill the soldiers assigned to watch him. Brainiac manages to free himself from Luthor's control, forcing him on board the ship, and the two make their escape.\n\nNotably, upon learning of Brainiac's modus operandi of destroying planets by destabilizing nearby stars when he is done collecting cities and knowledge from said planets, Superman openly speculates that Brainiac destroyed Krypton, which was destroyed when its sun went nova soon after Brainiac abducted Kandor and Argo. He also asks the alien what he did to Krypton's sun. Brainiac ignores the query, neither confirming or denying his responsibility, though he does heavily imply it (\"In fifty-seven minutes, my solar aggressor will reach your sun. It will flare up, and the Earth will be incinerated. Just like Krypton.\"). Superman still believes Brainiac had a part in Krypton's destruction after the end of this story arc.\n\nFollowing this Brainiac, now in possession of his ship again, unleashes his robot army against the newly created planet of New Krypton, and the Kryptonian citizens rise up to fight the drones. General Zod's army proves totally unable to fend them off, as the Brainiac's ship's force fields are seemingly invulnerable and his drones are equipped with red sun ray guns, allowing them to kill tens of thousands of Kryptonians. Superman, being the only one who knows how to penetrate his force fields (having learned the trick in the previous story arc), manages to enter Brainiac's ship. Supergirl leads the Kryptonians against the drones, but is attacked by an anti-Kryptonian Brainiac probe. Superboy, Mon-El, and the Legion of Super-Heroes join the fight and save Supergirl.\n\nAfter this, Brainiac shrinks Kandor again and re-bottles it, including a miniature red sun to de-power all the Kryptonians inside. The Legion, Supergirl, Superboy, Zod, and Superman all make it on to Brainiac's ship, thanks to Brainiac 5 hacking his ancestor's force fields and allowing them entry. The Legion explains to Zod that, just as Krypton's city of Kandor is held in a bottle onboard Brainiac's ship, other planets' cities are also imprisoned, and, therefore, Zod cannot destroy Brainiac's ship until the cities can be rescued. Zod sends Supergirl off and then arrests the Legionnaires, branding them terrorists. Meanwhile, Superman is about to face off against Brainiac when he is knocked down by a kryptonite energy blast fired by Lex Luthor and subsequently captured. Brainiac locks him in captivity with the intent to experiment on him, but Superman escapes and meets up with the rest of the superheroes and Zod on a separate section of the ship. Zod enters the scene and engages Brainiac in combat while Supergirl, Superboy, and the Legion recover the bottled cities on Brainiac's ship, including Kandor. Zod seems to be losing his fight with Brainiac, when suddenly Superman gets up and tackles Brainiac from behind. Before the battle between the two Kryptonians and the villain can continue, Brainiac's ship starts to destabilize and descend towards the planet. It is revealed that Lex Luthor sabotaged the ship and re-sized one of the cities while inside.\n\nLuthor's intervention causes the ship to crash into New Krypton, destroying it while Supergirl and the Legion re-size Kandor. However the city that Luthor expanded is still growing, now putting Kandor at risk. As Brainiac 5 works on the problem, Supergirl is shocked to discover Superman impaled by pieces of Brainiac's ship as a result of the explosion. Superman appears to have been fatally stricken. Luthor, though reeling from the explosion, is pleased with all the destruction he has caused. Brainiac confronts Luthor in the ruins of the ship and is furious that Lex sabotaged his ship. Luthor mocks him and spits in his eye before Brainiac angrily snaps Luthor's neck, killing him.\n\nNow deprived of his ship and technology, and seemingly depowered by his ship's destruction, Brainiac finds himself faced by an entire city of angry, solar-powered Kryptonians. Zod is eager for a final showdown with Brainiac, who calls Zod a coward for confronting Brainiac with his powers intact and an army of super-powered Kryptonians at his back. In response, Zod fires the red sun radiation from an Archer rifle at himself, to remove his powers and thus supposedly level the playing field as he prepares to take Brainiac down. Brainiac 5 gives Superman a transfusion of Conner's blood and exposes him to a very large dose of concentrated synthesized yellow sun rays. Using these techniques, Brainiac 5 is able to revive Superman.\n\nDespite the loss of his powers, Zod is able to get the upper hand on the similarly-powerless Brainiac and force him to his knees. Zod is about to shoot Brainiac when Superman intervenes. This causes a heated argument between Superman and Zod. Zod commands his soldiers to restrain Kal-El so Zod can proceed with the execution of Brainiac. Brainiac 5, sensing that this is his moment of destiny, steps in and teleports himself and Brainiac off of New Krypton.\n\nIt is revealed that Lex used a Luthor robot, supplied by the Toyman, to accomplish his mission on New Krypton, and that Brainiac killed the robot instead. Lex is very much alive and discussing with General Lane how his objective, to bring chaos to New Krypton, was achieved. Lex has been working as an agent of General Lane all along. The disarray that Lex caused provides Lane with a window of opportunity as he prepares for the impending war with New Krypton. Lex receives a Presidential pardon for his efforts. The story ends with Zod rallying his people as he declares war on the planet Earth. The story concludes in the next miniseries, \"\".\n\nMon-El plants the many bottled cities that Brainiac has captured over the years on various planets across the galaxy. These cities will one day become the United Planets by the 31st century, the same planets that will produce the members of the Legion of Super-Heroes.\n\nBrainiac 5 takes Brainiac to their homeworld of Colu where he hands him over to Vril Dox II, a.k.a. Brainiac 2. Vril Dox happily turns his \"father\" over to his people for his crimes. However Lyrl Dox, a.k.a. Brainiac 3, releases his \"grandfather\" with a weapon called Pulsar Stargrave. What then occurs is an all-out battle for Colu between all three present-day Brainiacs. Vril Dox even calls in Lobo for help. Brainac breaks out of his prison and, after causing much damage on Colu, escapes with Pulsar Stargrave in tow for parts unknown.\n\nBrainiac's origin in \"The New 52\" is revealed in \"Superman\" #23.2. Vril Dox was acknowledged as the greatest scientist on his homeworld, Yod-Colu, given his advances in force field technology and miniaturization. He developed an artificial intelligence, C.O.M.P.U.T.O., allowing him to discover the fifth dimension. Dox discovered the fifth dimension was in a state of war, and a group of its inhabitants, the Multitude, had entered their dimension and destroyed over a hundred planets. Realizing Yod-Colu was next in the Multitude's path, Dox tried to find a way to save his planet, even performing experiments on his son. The magistrates of Yod-Colu sentenced Dox to exile, but Dox used C.O.M.P.U.T.O. to take control of Yod-Colu's computer networks. Copying the planet's database, Dox constructed an army of robot servants called Terminauts and miniaturized the city his wife and son lived on and bottled it in a force field, while the rest of Yod-Colu was destroyed by the Multitude.\n\nAfter the destruction of Yod-Colu, Dox constructed an army of starships and distributed his consciousness across a series of robots that would each travel the universe in order to preserve planets from the Multitude, becoming known as the Collector of Worlds. One of these robots attacked Krypton. Dox became fascinated by Jor-El, a Kryptonian scientist who actually saved his homeworld from the Multitude. Upon returning to Krypton, however, Brainiac discovered Krypton had been destroyed.\n\nReferred to at first as 'The Collector of Worlds', Brainiac is first seen as the mysterious informant that supplies Lex Luthor information of Superman and his alien nature. Clark is having a dream of Krypton's final moments in which an artificial intelligence that controls the planet wakes up robots in an attempt to preserve the Kryptonian culture. Later, while Clark conducts an interview in a robotic factory, the same harvester robots appear.\n\nJohn Corben (the soon-to-be supervillain Metallo) is suddenly possessed by the artificial intelligence. It demands Superman. The robots create havoc throughout Metropolis, but Superman soon realizes that they are really after him. Superman fights the possessed Corben with the help of John Henry Irons.\n\nAlthough they managed to defeat him, the alien sentience had already miniaturized and bottled the city of Metropolis and took it to his ship in space. Superman travels to the ship to find many alien bottled cities, Kandor included. The alien identifies himself as a being from the planet Colu where he was known as C.O.M.P.U.T.O and on Krypton he was called Brainiac 1.0. He claims that, without Superman and the ship that brought him to Earth, his Kryptonian collection is incomplete. The alien intelligence demands Superman make a choice: the intelligence will disable life support in both the Kandor and Metropolis bottles, and Superman must choose which city to save using indestructible Kryptonian armor found on the ship.\n\nSuperman decides on neither and wears the armor (which changes instantly into the current Superman costume design). Brainiac sends Metallo to attack Superman, but due to Superman reasoning with him over his feelings for Lois Lane, he breaks free of Brainiac's control and joins Superman in his attack. Superman then uses his rocket from Krypton that had also been miniaturized with Metropolis to attack Brainiac's mind, which the rocket was able to do since its primary mission was to protect Kal-El. In doing so, Metropolis was returned to Earth and Superman took possession of Brainiac's ship and made it his new super citadel.\n\nNotably, the ship Clark was placed into as a child was described as having \"Brainiac AI\", leaving the identity of the Collector of Worlds in doubt. The Colony of the Collector of Worlds told Superman that its AI technology went by different names, beginning on Yod-Colu as C.O.M.P.U.T.O. On Noma, he was called Pneumenoid; on Bryak it was Mind2; on Krypton he was called Brainiac 1.0; and, finally on Earth, he is the Internet.\n\nAfter this defeat, Brainiac retreated to deeper parts of the cosmos, and eventually came across the planet Tolerance, the setting of a bounty hunting glimmernet game show called \"The Hunted\". Striking a deal with Lady Styx, overlord of the Tenebrian Dominion, he bottles a portion of the Sh'diki Borough of Tolerance to add to his collection. He encounters Jediah Caul, a former member of the Green Lantern Corps, who combats and infects Brainiac's ship. Ultimately, Brainiac abandons his plans with the Sh'diki Borough and ejects Caul and the bottled city before leaving for parts unknown.\n\nBack on Earth, during an investigation of 20 kidnapped people who developed metahuman powers after being kidnapped by Brainiac, one of these 20 infects Lois Lane, thereby giving Brainiac control over a close ally of Superman. Brainiac plots his return to Earth, using Lane to infiltrate Earth's defense systems to allow an easier path for his physical return. and even upgrading her body to contain his 12th level intelligence. His minion Cyborg-Superman (a reconstructed Zor-El, father of Supergirl) constructs a portal to allow Brainiac's command ship and \"daughter ships\" to travel to Earth from throughout the galaxy.\n\nSuperman, whom Brainiac had conspired to 'infect' with the monster Doomsday in order to drive him away from Earth, uses his augmented power to attack Brainiac's gigantic mothership and break through to its core and, finally, Vril Dox himself. The Coluan appears still-humanoid, and explains his reasoning for stealing minds from throughout the universe: he has concluded that if he can 'unite' the minds of a certain critical amount of people, he will be able to change reality itself. His motivation for this appears a desire to right the wrongs he feels responsible for: the loss of his wife and child back on Colu. His plan is undone when Superman drags him, mothership and all, into a black hole. But then, Vril Dox is snatched away to safety, it seems, by a being who appears to be the true Brainiac: an immensely powerful entity from outside the universe itself.\n\nThis version of Brainiac, a composite of Brainiac from around the Multiverse, is revealed to be the pre-\"Flashpoint\" era Brainiac who, having found his way into the Source Wall and into the Multiverse, was thrown back in the timestream and mutated by the effects of \"crisis\" events such as \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", \"Zero Hour\", and \"52\", creating a godlike being. He then uncovered the location of Vanishing Point from nearly killing New 52 Earth-0's Michelle Carter, from which he could roam the complete history of the Multiverse, collecting doomed cities from defunct timelines, alternative futures, and parallel worlds to add to his collection, in \"Convergence\", leaving behind an agent, Telos, to rule a planet of the same name containing the cities. Brainiac's attempt to do this to a future timeline of Earth-0 was narrowly averted by the heroes in the story \"\"; Brainiac was contained in a T-sphere, leaving Telos stranded without his master, prompting the events of \"Convergence\" in which the planets are bid to fight each other. When the events of \"Convergence\" nearly end in an irreversible destruction of the Multiverse, the time traveller Waverider, formerly the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Booster Gold, frees Brainiac, who reveals he is sick from his mutations and only wishes to return to normal, to being Brainiac of Colu. He sends most of the heroes home, and with help from the \"Zero Hour\" Parallax and the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Superman, averts the collapse of the Multiverse from \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", and is returned to the normal Brainiac. His actions also allows various parallel universes and alternate timelines to exist as the new Multiverse.\n\nBrainiac's name is first referenced in an issue of \"Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps\". The entirety of the Green and Yellow Lanterns (including Hal Jordan, Guy Gardner, and John Stewart), along with Starro the Conqueror, are lured into a trap and subsequently hit with a shrink ray while on the planet Xudar, leaving them tiny and helpless. In the next issue, they are trapped in a bottle, and their jailer is revealed to be a robot claiming to run on \"Brainiac 2.0\" software. The robot heavily resembles both Brainiac's 1983 skeleton-esque incarnation and the robotic drones utilized by the post-2008 version of Brainiac. It has a collection of shrunken bottled planets, and travels in a ship resembling Brainiac's skullship. At the time it was not clear if this was the true Brainiac after \"Rebirth\" or yet another one of his drones.\n\nThe machine's victory is short-lived, however, as it is revealed that Larfleeze was able to reprogram it to his side using an Orange Lantern ring, having rebooted its life systems after finding it inactive on his homeworld with its ship. Larfleeze is impressed that the machine was able to capture the Green Lanterns and Starro, and even more impressed with the machine's shrinking technology, and plans to hijack its technology to put together his own collection. He takes the ship and collection to his homeworld of Okaara. However, upon being informed that the Yellow and Green Lanterns are still fighting inside the bottle and trying to kill each other, Larfleeze's own greed for having everything gets the best of him and he ends up breaking the container. This frees the Lanterns, and somehow restores them to their normal size and strength, after which they immediately start rampaging inside the ship and trashing Brainiac/Larfleeze's collection. Hal, Kyle, John and Guy go on to lead the attack on the Orange Lantern Corps. With everyone fighting together, the Orange Lantern Corps are quickly overwhelmed. Larfleeze accuses the robot of playing him; when it responds that it simply did what he programmed it to do, Larfleeze destroys it in a rage.\n\nThe Superman storyline \"New World\" later confirmed via a flashback cameo that the Post-\"Crisis\", post-2008 version of Brainiac (the tall, muscular, green-skinned cybernetic alien scientist) still exists in the post-\"Rebirth\" continuity, and has encountered Superman in the past. Thus, the robot that defeated Starro, the Green Lantern Corps, and the Yellow Lantern Corps before subsequently being dispatched by Larfleeze was, in fact, one of his drones.\n\nBrainiac later arrived on Earth again and battled the Justice League, who proved no match for him and his ship, until Superman arrived. However, he did not come to destroy the Earth, but to deliver a warning: that there is a cosmic-level threat in the universe coming to Earth, one that the heroes of Earth are woefully ill-prepared for. Brainiac thinks he can defeat the threat, but it means teaming up with Superman and the Justice League and combining members of the League with some of the most dangerous supervillains in the DC Universe and sending them into battle against this extinction-level menace. Four teams outfitted with Brainiac's technology are formed (including among other members, Lex Luthor, Batman, Wonder Woman, and Sinestro), with Brainiac himself working directly alongside his nemesis, Superman.\n\nThe \"No Justice\" miniseries begins with the Omega Titans, the aforementioned threat, attacking Colu, Brainiac's homeworld, which explains Brainiac's kidnapping of Earth's superheroes and supervillains. Brainiac claims to have developed a plan to defeat the Omega Titans and the superheroes only need to follow his orders to win, but Amanda Waller uses the hidden Protocol XI, which involves kidnapping the world's most dangerous psychics, to probe Brainiac's mind and find out what he knows. The strain of the psychic attack causes Brainiac's head to explode, apparently killing him.\n\nBrainiac's most consistent power (endemic to all versions) is his \"twelfth-level intellect\", allowing calculation abilities, enhanced memory and advanced understanding of mechanical engineering, bio-engineering, physics, and other theoretical and applied sciences, as well as extensive knowledge of various alien technologies. For comparison, the population of 20th century Earth as a whole constitutes a sixth-level intelligence and the population of 31st century Earth as a whole is a ninth-level intelligence. His Post-\"Crisis\" incarnation claims that his brain can process and sort the knowledge of over four hundred ninety octodecillion beings (490 × 10). The character has created devices such as a force field belt capable of withstanding Superman's most powerful blows, and a shrinking ray capable of reducing cities. All versions of him are also technopathic.\n\nBrainiac's advanced mental powers have shown him capable of possessing others, absorbing information from other beings, transferring his consciousness, creating and manipulating computer systems, replicating multiple versions of himself, and exerting powers to traverse or control space and time. Among organic beings, Brainiac views only his frequent partner Lex Luthor as a peer intellect. Brainiac is usually depicted with an incredibly high degree of superstrength and durability; the exact level varies, but usually hovers at around Superman's strength. Brainiac's exact abilities vary drastically throughout his various incarnations.\n\nOriginally, Brainiac was a scientist with no superhuman abilities aside from his intellect. He fought Superman via the use of his advanced technology and cunning, similar to Lex Luthor. Among these were a forcefield belt which projected a shield that made him immune to all harm (even Superman's blows), a shrinking ray, and a headpiece consisting of a cluster of diode/electrode-like objects. His cybernetic headpiece let him interface with technology and project energy blasts from his head, which were powerful enough to significantly harm Superman. Superman described the blasts as \"blindingly painful... almost unbearable\" and as a threat to his life. The Pre-\"Crisis\" Brainiac was referred to by an omniscient narrator as \"the super-computer space pirate-- Superman's most powerful nemesis.\"\n\nBrainiac being unpowered and reliant on external weaponry was largely still the case even when he was retconned as an android, but in the 1980s, this changed and he gained the abilities that would stick to all subsequent incarnations: superstrength and durability, technopathy, and super longevity. His technopathic abilities extend to control of his ship, with which he shares a symbiotic relationship. The android version of Brainiac was capable of downloading his consciousness to spare, robotic bodies in the event that his original was destroyed or damaged. He could also possess organic beings in certain circumstances, as he did to Luthor during \"Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?\".\n\nThe final body utilized by the Pre-\"Crisis\" Brainiac (resembling a robotic skeleton) was technopathic, had superstrength and durability, could discharge energy blasts capable of hurting Superman, and knew of how to \"spin\" the psychokinetic energies he generated into a web-like net which could hold Superman at bay. Among the knowledge he absorbed was extensive information on hand-to-hand combat techniques, making him a very skilled combatant. Despite this, he saw physical confrontation as beneath him, and preferred to defeat foes with his mind.\n\nJohn Byrne's re-imagining of the character possessed telepathy and telekinesis, as well as the ability to discharge energy blasts. He was an alien consciousness who had possessed the body of a powerful human psychic and awakened his powers, further augmenting them with an implanted electrode head-piece. His vast psychic powers allowed him to seriously challenge Superman, and defeat multiple members of the New Gods (including Orion) with a single psionic energy blast, but the body's lack of Superman-level durability was a major liability and eventually led to it being rendered useless in a gasoline explosion. After this organic body was destroyed, Brainiac's consciousness built and possessed various robotic bodies and occasionally hijacked other organic bodies (such as Doomsday's). His abilities were dependent on the body he was inhabiting at the time, which could vary from as weak as a normal human to far stronger than Superman. His nanoswarm incarnation, for instance, could shapeshift, regenerate, project energy blasts and force fields, and match Superman blow for blow; Superman stated Brainiac to have physical strength on par with Doomsday's in this form. His strongest incarnation was Brainiac 13, who, even prior to absorbing Imperiex, was so physically formidable that Superman could not remotely affect, much less damage, him. By contrast, Brainiac was easily able to kill Superman, and would have done so in a short time had he not been devoted to torturing the Man of Steel.\n\nIt was later revealed that this version of Brainiac (like the previous ones) was merely a mentally-controlled probe of the real Brainiac, who was a living Coluan that had genetically and cybernetically enhanced himself. The true Brainiac lacked psychic powers, but still possessed super physical attributes, intelligence, and technopathy. He possesses a level of strength vastly surpassing that of a full-powered Superman; capable of easily overpowering the Kryptonian in a grapple and flooring him with a single punch, breaking his near-invulnerable skin by squeezing Superman's head with his fingers, and catching one of Superman's punches and crushing his hand until it bled, forcing Superman to his knees. His durability is also far greater than Superman's, shown when he absorbs several consecutive blows to the face from the Man of Steel without visible harm and later claims that Superman's punches did not hurt him at all. Even a concentrated and sustained burst of heat vision directly to Brainiac's eyes did not seriously debilitate him, though it inflicted noticeable damage. At one point Brainiac 5 warns that Superman would most likely die against Brainiac in a straight fight. \"Superman Secret Files and Origins 2009\" further state that Brainiac is \"as strong and invulnerable as a Kryptonian.\"\n\nDespite his enormous physical enhancements, Brainiac had several weaknesses. Like the Pre-\"Crisis\" Brainiac, he is mentally connected to his ship in such a way that he can be disabled for a short period if separated without warning. Initially, he had the weakness of being disabled by his mysophobia and sensory overload when dumped into Earth's atmosphere, though he does not seem to have this defect in his later battles on Earth, such as when he defeated Superboy, suggesting that he had fixed it, or that he is only overloaded in particularly dirty environments. Finally, being separated from his ship for prolonged periods causes him to physically deteriorate and become far less powerful, as Lex Luthor observed while studying his unconscious body over the course of several days when it was in the custody of the U.S. government.\n\nThis Brainiac is an incredibly powerful physical fighter, but like his Pre-\"Crisis\" counterpart is most dangerous due to the advanced technology he wields, much of it of his own invention. These include his classic shrinking ray and force fields, as well as other gadgets such as missiles capable of causing stars to go supernova. His force fields are so impregnable that a direct hit from an energy weapon that kills several fully powered Kryptonians as collateral damage did not leave so much as a single scratch on his ship. Brainiac also possesses an army of at least tens of thousands of humanoid robotic \"probes\". These probes are strong enough to draw blood from Superman and tough enough to survive some of his powerful blows. During the New Krypton story arc, Brainiac upgraded his probes with red-sun ray guns for the purpose of fighting Kryptonians. When Brainiac orders these drones to attack New Krypton, they quickly kill over eleven thousand solar-powered Kryptonians.\n\nHe is a biological creature that has altered his body to acquire more knowledge to become \"better\". With his ship, his vast knowledge, and his powerful technology, Brainiac has captured thousands of cities and has assimilated and destroyed just as many civilizations, making him the worst mass murderer in the history of the Milky Way and one of the most feared beings in the known universe. He is considered one of the most powerful villains Superman has ever faced.\n\nBrainiac, in \"The New 52\", seems to have kept most of the powers and equipment of his Post-\"Crisis\" incarnation (including his shrinking ray, force fields, and robot army), with notable additions. Brainiac's ship has been massively upgraded in this incarnation; it is now larger than the entire Earth & Moon planet system, and carries within it a massive invasion fleet of many types of smaller ships. He still appears to possess the physical strength and near-invulnerability of his Post-\"Crisis\" counterpart, as shown when he easily defeats the Cyborg Superman. By the \"\" story arc, Brainiac has used his twelfth-level intellect to become an enormously powerful psychic and telepath, augmented by the minds that he has stolen and digitized from across the galaxy, and capable of taking control of all seven billion minds on Earth at the same time. He also demonstrates considerable reality warping abilities; he claims that the combined psionic power of all the minds he has captured throughout the universe can allow him to change reality to his will, and plans to use this power to remake the universe in his image. However, this plan is prematurely ended when Superman battles him telepathically and crashes his ship into a black hole.\n\nFollowing the \"Doomed\" story arc, it is further revealed that the Pre-\"Crisis\" Brainiac somehow escaped the Crisis on Infinite Earths itself, and mutated from the various crises since, becoming a godly being. This version of Brainiac is nigh-omnipotent and omniscient, with the ability to warp universes and time travel. Using this newfound power he either recreated or interacted with all the different iterations of himself throughout the multiverse, using his New 52 incarnation as yet another one of his many probes. He has grown so much in power that now he can collect cities from other universes at will. At the end of the \"Convergence\" story arc, Brainiac recreates the DC Multiverse.\n\nThe character has been depicted in various out-of-continuity stories. In the Amalgam Comics line, which was a joint venture between DC and Marvel Comics, readers are introduced to Galactiac, a combination of Brainiac and Marvel Comics antagonist Galactus. Brainiac also appears in \"\", \"JLA: Shogun of Steel\", and the novel \"The Last Days of Krypton\" by author Kevin J. Anderson.\n\nIn the \"\" graphic novel, Brainiac (here depicted as an alien AI) serves as the main antagonist. He first appears working with Luthor to undermine Superman, eventually shrinking and bottling the city of Stalingrad. Superman defeats Brainiac soon after, but his failure to restore Stalingrad becomes his one failure and a recurring source of guilt. After his defeat, Superman has Brainiac reprogrammed in order to serve him and the Earth, and help run Superman's Global Soviet Union, a task he takes to for the next four decades. While serving Superman, Brainiac repeatedly advises him to take more drastic courses of action to resolve his problems, such as suggesting he merely invade Luthor's United States, though Superman always rebuffs his most extreme suggestions.\n\nAt the climax of the story, Superman eventually does decide to attack the United States, and Luthor deploys a futuristic U.S. Pacific Fleet and an army of superbeings (including Wonder Woman and Doomsday) in an attempt to stop him. They are either incapacitated by Superman or cut to shreds by Brainiac's ship, and Luthor himself is yanked down deep into the recesses of the Fortress by Brainiac to be converted surgically into a Superman robot. Brainiac and Superman storm the White House after defeating all the U.S.'s defenders. They are greeted by Lois Luthor with the last weapon, a small note written by President Lex Luthor that reads, \"Why don't you just put the whole world in a bottle, Superman?\". Superman, realizing the error of his ways, is horrified by the revelation that he has essentially become another Brainiac- \"an alien bullying a less-developed species.\" He calls off the invasion, but Brainiac objects; he reveals that his twelfth-level intellect let him easily subvert any attempts at reprogramming him, and that he has never been under Superman's control. He attacks Superman with a kryptonite beam weapon, nearly killing him while boasting about how he will conquer the entire universe after finishing off all his foes on Earth. However, he is finally defeated when Luthor (having escaped surgery through undisclosed means) hacks and shuts off Brainiac from the inside. His body is promptly destroyed by Superman.\n\nIn one last act of spite, Brainiac's death automatically triggers his ship's self-destruct, which, according to Luthor, would eradicate the entire Earth and everything within a 15,000,000 mile radius. As the gravitational singularities powering Brainiac's ship threaten to explode, Superman rockets it into outer space, where it blows up. The Earth is saved, but Superman is thought to have been caught in an explosion and killed. In the epilogue at Lex Luthor's funeral a thousand years in the future, it is revealed that unbeknownst to the rest of the Earth, Superman survived the destruction of Brainiac's ship. He walks quietly away from the ceremony, planning to live among humans rather than ruling over them.\n\nIn the \"\" one-shot, the Justice League are drawn to the anti-matter universe to defeat the Crime Syndicate of America, their villainous anti-matter counterparts, with Brainiac apparently acting as the robotic servant of Ultraman. However, after the Syndicate travel to the League's universe, it is revealed that the true mastermind of the scheme was Brainiac, who is revealed to be an organic life form trapped in a tank acting as Ultraman's servant, having manipulated both teams into a position where they will be trapped in each other's worlds and thus unable to win, as the nature of each world means that 'good' and 'evil' will always win in each world. However, Brainiac is defeated when the League deliberately walks away so that the Syndicate can return in time to stop him.\n\nIn \"\", set in a world where heroes have been publicly 'retired' for years as Lex Luthor took over and blackmailed assorted heroes into acting as his discreet 'servants', Brainiac is working with Luthor to keep the city of Kandor contained, the two destroying one Kryptonian family each time Superman defies them. He is eventually destroyed by Lara, the daughter of Superman and Wonder Woman, who claims to be surrendering to him only to allow the Atom to break the bottle from inside and allow the Kryptonians within to access their powers, decimating Brainiac with their heat vision.\n\nBizarro #1 created this doppelganger of Brainiac to live on Bizarro World. Since Brainiac shrunk the city of Kandor, his Bizarro counterpart felt compelled to do the opposite, and expanded a city in Antarctica, creating Big City.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Flashpoint\" event, Brainiac is the ruler of 31st century Earth, and has captured Kid Flash, whom he then placed in stasis, but Hot Pursuit managed to rescue the young speedster. Escaping from Brainiac's base, Kid Flash and Hot Pursuit formulate a plan to return to the 21st century. Kid Flash then allows himself to be recaptured by Brainiac and put into stasis. Kid Flash uses his super-speed in the virtual reality access port to shut down the security program and Hot Pursuit then blasts Brainiac from behind. While they used his orb energy to return to the past, Brainiac impaled Hot Pursuit and attacked Kid Flash. Hot Pursuit breaks the orb energy projector to allow Kid Flash's super-speed to return. Kid Flash then returns to the 21st century, promising to rescue Hot Pursuit from Brainiac.\n\nBrainiac is one of the villains in the \"Justice League/Power Rangers\" crossover, when the Power Rangers and Lord Zedd accidentally travel to the DC Universe through a teleportation accident, with the Rangers arriving in Gotham City, while Zedd finds himself in one of the trapped cities on Brainiac's ship. Escaping from the bottle, Zedd proposes an alliance with Brainiac in exchange for providing Brainiac with a city from his Earth, Zedd releasing a wave of monsters across the world to distract the Justice League. Using the distraction of Zedd's monsters, Brainiac dispatches his drones to take control of the Rangers' zords, stealing their powers and fleeing back to their world, forcing the Rangers and the Justice League to 'borrow' the Hadron Collider to create a temporary dimensional transporter that will allow them all to get back to the Rangers' world. Back in the Rangers' world, Brainiac nearly takes control of Cyborg, but Billy Cranston is able to regain his powers in time to take Cyborg down so that Batman can reboot him. Brainiac has captured Alpha 5, officially to question him as the only other example of independent artificial sentience he has ever met, but Alpha, although speculating that Brainiac abducted him because the villain is lonely, rejects the idea that the two are similar, arguing that Brainiac's actions show a selfishness and an inability to grow where true sentience relies on making oneself open to working with others. After regaining their powers, the Rangers are able to rescue Alpha and force Brainiac into retreat.\n\nIn the \"Adventures of Supergirl\" comic, which takes place in the universe of the \"Supergirl\" TV series, a very different version of Vril Dox appears as a recurring villain. In this series he is a greedy, green-skinned alien hacker from the planet Yod who was hired by an as-yet unknown individual to frame Supergirl's ally Winn Schott for funding and aiding terrorism. When Supergirl accesses Winn's computer, he presents himself falsely as an A.I. system called V.R.I.L., and pretends to be a creation of Schott's. He figures out Supergirl's real identity and plans to expose her, then he electrocutes her ally James Olsen from through Winn's computer. Eventually, Vril is tracked down by Supergirl with the aid of Winn and an expert hacker he knew, and Supergirl easily defeated him, after which he was arrested.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBrainiac appears in the second episode of \"\" (a companion to \"\"), voiced by Tara Strong. This version is depicted as a contingency plan set by Doctor Sivana to take down Superman. Brainiac is shown to have lost control over his immeasurable psychic powers, creating an energy dome around himself in Metropolis. The effects are shown to take down attack helicopters and send cars flying. As stated by his creator, only a small nuclear warhead could stop him, or Superman. Superman shows up and penetrates the dome, seeing Brainiac for who he is: a crying, blue-skinned child with three diodes on his head, missing his left arm. Despite his attempts to reason with him and talk Brainiac into controlling his powers, Superman reluctantly kills Brainiac with his heat vision to put him out of his misery, much to his regret.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46273818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46273818", "title": "City of Dunedin (ship)", "text": "City of Dunedin (ship)\n\nThe City of Dunedin was a 327-ton side wheel paddle steamer wrecked in Cook Strait near Cape Terawhiti on 20 May 1865 while sailing from Wellington to Hokitika via Nelson with the loss of all on board. Captain James Parker Boyd commanded her.\n\nThe \"City of Dunedin\" was an iron paddle steamer built in Glasgow by Archibald Denny of Dumbarton. She was fitted with 100 hp Denny and Co steam engines. Miss Margaret Robson of Glasgow named her.\n\nShe had been built specifically for the coastal trade around New Zealand. She was owned by Jones and Co of Otago.\n\nShe was described as not being \"elegant in appearance, but .. handsome proportions, and thorough adaption for the trade in which she is to be employed ... \" She had a full length spar deck, a new type of windlass to aid mooring and unmooring the vessel. The main deck was 7 feet below the spar deck. She had fore and aft holds, separated by the engine room. Her dimensions were 167 feet long by 23 feet beam. Her fully laden draught was 6.5 feet and her depth 15 feet. Her normal speed was 10 knots. There were 56 berths for passengers.\n\nJohn Jones who owned a 54/64ths share in the boat had not insured his share. The remaining 10/64th owners had insured their shares.\n\nIts maiden voyage from Glasgow to Dunedin under Captain McFarlane took 87 days. She left Glasgow on 9 July and arrived in Dunedin in November. The ships engineers for the journey were inexperienced and did not maintain the engines properly. On reaching the Bay of Biscay the ship no longer ran on steam and had to revert to sail. She put into Madeira to repair the engines and to the Cape Verde Islands to obtain coal. On reaching the equator the ship again reverted to sail until it reached the Solanders. The journey was without incident until 600 miles from the Cape of Good Hope where she ran into strong winds. After arriving at Dunedin she was sent over to Melbourne to be docked as there was no dock at Dunedin.\n\nHer first journey was an excursion for guests of the owners from Port Chalmers to Otago Heads on 5 December 1863. Her first commercial voyage was the following week, sailing from Port Chalmers at 1pm on Wednesday, 9 December. She stopped at Waikouaiti, Moeraki, Oamaru, Timaru, and Akaroa before arriving at Lyttleton on 12 December. She left Lyttelton on 16 December and arrived back at Port Chalmers on the 20th. The proposal was for this to be a prelude to a weekly service between these ports in conjunction with the \"Geelong\".\n\nBy May 1864 she had sailed to Wellington and was regularly sailing to Havelock and Picton. In early 1865 she began calling at Wellington and Nelson. With the West Coast gold rush, Hokitika was added to her ports of call by April.\n\nThe \"City of Dunedin\" sailed from Wellington at about 4pm on Saturday 20 May 1865. She was sighted later that afternoon by a 15-year-old girl, Miss McMenamen while she was out horse riding at Cape Terawhiti, close in shore among the rocks. She thought the steamer had lost its steering as it was sailing in circles. The crew appeared to be confused, raising and lowering the sails. On returning home she asked her mother to come and look, but as her mother was busy she did not go. The wind on that day was reported as a fresh south-easterly. Later accounts refer to there having been a storm on the 20th and 21st.\n\nWhen the \"City of Dunedin\" failed to arrive in Nelson she was initially thought of as being either delayed or having sailed straight to Hokitika. As time went on and debris was found along the Wellington coast, she was considered to have hit one of the rocks near the Cape and sunk.\n\nThe gunboat \"Sandfly\" under Captain Fox carried out a search of the shores on both sides of the strait.\n\nA search on foot of the coast from Lyall Bay to Ohariu Bay was carried out by J W Rayer to ascertain the ships fate. Various pieces of the ship and its contents were found strewn along the coast. The majority of the relics of the wreck were found between the Pilot Station and Sinclair Head.\n\nThere were 25 crew members. Those named were\n\nThose marked with ** were listed in the Wellington Independent as on board. The remainder come from other papers. There are 27 in all named.\n\nThere is a strong possibility that many more could have been on board as there was very high demand for the passage to gold fields. Estimates of the actual number of passengers ranged from 250 to 600 in some papers published 20 to 40 years after the event. She did have capacity to carry these kinds of numbers as on her initial excursion to Otago Heads in 1863 she had about 500 on board. The point against these claimed numbers is that the newspapers at the time the ship went missing only referred to 50 to 60 people on board. In addition, despite searches of the coastline where she was supposed to have foundered, no bodies were found.\n\nFund raising was undertaken at various parts of the country to assist those who had lost family members.\n"}
{"id": "8328810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8328810", "title": "Cosmic Consciousness", "text": "Cosmic Consciousness\n\nCosmic Consciousness: A Study in the Evolution of the Human Mind is a 1901 book by Richard Maurice Bucke, a Canadian psychiatrist. In this book, he explored the concept of cosmic consciousness, which he defined as \"a higher form of consciousness than that possessed by the ordinary man\".\n\nIn \"Cosmic Consciousness\", Bucke stated that he discerned three forms, or degrees, of consciousness:\n\n\nAccording to Bucke,\n\nMoores said that Bucke's cosmic consciousness is an interconnected way of seeing things \"which is more of an intuitive knowing than it is a factual understanding.\" Moores pointed out that, for scholars of the purist camp, the experience of cosmic consciousness is incomplete without the element of love, \"which is the foundation of mystical consciousness\":\n\nJuan A. Herrero Brasas said that Bucke's cosmic consciousness refers to the evolution of the intellect, and not to \"the ineffable revelation of hidden truths.\" According to Brasas, it was William James who equated Bucke's cosmic consciousness with mystical experience or mystical consciousness. Gary Lachman notes that today Bucke's experience would most likely be 'explained' by the so-called \"God spot,\" or more generally as a case of temporal lobe epilepsy, but he is sceptical of these and other 'organic' explanations.\n\nBucke identified only male examples of cosmic consciousness. He believed that women were not likely to have it. (However, there are some women amongst the 'additional cases' listed in the second half of the book.)\n\nHe regarded Walt Whitman as \"the climax of religious evolution and the harbinger of humanity's future.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Robertson, \"Cosmic Consciousness\" and William James's book \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" have much in common:\n\nJames popularized the concept of religious experience, which he explored in \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\". He saw mysticism as a distinctive experience which supplies knowledge of the transcendental. He considered the \"personal religion\" to be \"more fundamental than either theology or ecclesiasticism\", and states:\n\nRegarding cosmic consciousness, William James, in his essay \"The Confidences of a \"Psychical Researcher,\"\" wrote:\nJames understood \"cosmic consciousness\" to be a \"collective consciousness\", a \"larger reservoir of consciousness,\" which manifests itself in the minds of men and remains intact after the dissolution of the individual. It may \"retain traces of the life history of its individual emanation.\"\n\nA classification similar to that proposed by Bucke was used by the influential theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), \"viz\".:\n\n\nIn Schleiermacher's theology, higher consciousness \"is the part of the human being that is capable of transcending animal instincts.\" It is the \"point of contact with God\" and the essence of being human.\n\nWhen higher consciousness is present, people are not alienated from God by their instincts. The relation between higher and lower consciousness is akin to St. Paul's \"struggle of the spirit to overcome the flesh.\" Higher consciousness establishes a distinction between the natural and the spiritual sides of human beings.\n\nThe concept of religious experience was used by Schleiermacher and by Albert Ritschl to defend religion against scientific and secular criticism and to defend the belief that moral and religious experiences justify religious beliefs.\n\nCosmic consciousness bears similarity to Hegel's \"Geist\":\n\nTeilhard de Chardin's concept of the noösphere also bears similarity to Bucke's ideas.\n\nAccording to Paul Marshall, a philosopher of religion, cosmic consciousnes bears resemblances to some traditional pantheist beliefs.\n\nAccording to Ervin László, cosmic consciousness corresponds to Jean Gebser's integral consciousness and to Don Edward Beck and Christopher Cowan's turquoise state of cosmic spirituality.\n\nKen Wilber, integral philosopher and mystic, identifies four state/stages of cosmic consciousness (mystical experience) above both Gebser's integral level and Beck and Cowan's turquoise level.\n\nSome modern psychologists and theologians have made reference to Bucke’s work. They include Erich Fromm, Robert S. de Ropp, and Abraham Maslow.\n\nOthers who have used the concept of cosmic consciousness, as introduced by Bucke in 1901, include Albert Einstein, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, and Alan Watts.\n\nMany of those who have used psychedelic drugs, such as LSD and psilocybin, have said that they have experienced cosmic consciousness.\n\nConcepts\n\nModels\n\nPersons\n\nMovements\n\nRelated topics\n"}
{"id": "1531275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1531275", "title": "Dantons Tod (opera)", "text": "Dantons Tod (opera)\n\nThe successful premiere of Gottfried von Einem's opera ' at the 1947 Salzburg Festival and its quick staging by European houses were due to more than the strong drama of Einem's score. This was a first step toward the rehabilitation of German musicians after World War II; an opera by a young Austrian composer who had not collaborated in the former regime's cultural policies. ' dramatizes legalized governmental terror, a plague which the world at the time realized had not been eradicated with the end of the war.\n\n\"Dantons Tod\" was adapted from Georg Büchner's play by von Einem and his teacher, composer Boris Blacher. The protagonist is Georges Danton, a leader in the French government during the Revolution. When he turned against Robespierre's tactics—including terror—he was guillotined in April 1794. The opera's first act establishes Danton's confrontation with Robespierre. In the first scene Danton and Camille Desmoulins express their desire for an end of the daily executions to a group of their friends playing cards. Scene two introduces the volatile crowd. Robespierre enters and in an aria sways the crowd and promises more executions. Danton confronts him. After Danton leaves, Robespierre and his colleague Saint-Just decide that he and Camille must be killed. In the last scene of the act Danton announces to Camille and his wife Lucile that he is to be arrested, but he refuses to flee.\n\nAct 2 depicts Danton's trial and death. Two scenes before the Revolutionary Tribunal are separated by one with Danton and Camille in prison. Lucile comes to see Camille; she has lost her reason. In the trial scenes the crowd swings between demanding Danton's death and falling under the spell of his eloquent oratory. At the end, in the Place de la Révolution, the condemned prisoners sing \"La Marseillaise\" in counterpoint to the crowd dancing the Carmagnole. Danton and Camille are guillotined. After the crowd disperses, Lucile enters and sits on the steps of the guillotine. She cries \"Es lebe der Konig\" (Long live the king) and is arrested as the curtain falls.\n\nVon Einem revised the score slightly after the premier, replacing an orchestral prelude with the chords that now open the opera, cutting an orchestral passage after Danton's death, and revising the final scene with Lucile. These changes make for a more dramatic beginning and ending and add to a score that deserves more frequent revivals than it has seen to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "51022783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51022783", "title": "Elder financial abuse", "text": "Elder financial abuse\n\nElder financial abuse is a type of elder abuse in which misappropriation of financial resources or abusive use of financial control, in the context of a relationship where there is an expectation of trust, causes harm to an older person.\n\nThe Older Americans Act of 2006 defines elder financial abuse, or financial exploitation, as “the fraudulent or otherwise illegal, unauthorized, or improper act or process of an individual, including a caregiver or fiduciary, that uses the resources of an older individual for monetary or personal benefit, profit, or gain, or that results in depriving an older individual of rightful access to, or use of, benefits, resources, belongings, or assets.”\n\nFamily members and informal or paid caregivers have special access to seniors and thus are often in a position to inflict financial abuse through deception, coercion, misrepresentation, undue influence, or theft. Common abusive practices include:\n\nFamily members engaged in financial abuse of the elderly may include spouses, children, or grandchildren. They may engage in the activity because they feel justified, for instance, they are taking what they might later inherit or have a sense of \"entitlement\" due to a negative personal relationship with the older person, or that it is somehow the price of a promise of lifelong care. Or they may take money or property to prevent other family members from getting the money or for fear that their inheritance may be lost due to cost of treating illnesses. Sometimes, family members take money or property from their elders because of gambling or other financial problems or substance abuse. (source?)\n\nSeniors are also often deliberately targeted by scams, fraud, and misleading marketing – often by otherwise legitimate businesses. This may include:\n\nA 1996 study by AARP found that while individuals over 50 comprised 35% of the American population, they accounted for 57% of all fraud victims (AARP, 1996). Seniors' level of vulnerability to this type of exploitation varies by the type of scam. For example, the AARP found that lottery fraud victims were more likely to be women over 70 living alone, with lower education, lower income, and less financial literacy, while victims of investment fraud were more likely to be men between the ages of 55 and 62 who were married, with higher incomes and greater financial literacy.\n\nHybrid Financial Exploitation (HFE) is financial exploitation that co-occurs with physical abuse and/or neglect. HFE victims are more likely to be co-habiting with abusive individual, to have fair/poor health, to fear the abusive individual, to perceive abusive individual as caretaker, and to have a longer duration of abuse.\n\nVarious attempts have been made to estimate the size and scope of the problem. The primary difficulties in estimating the size of the problem are:\n\nThe True Link study found that:\nOther effects include damage to credit, missing work, depression, and loss of sleep.\n"}
{"id": "14024066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024066", "title": "Ernie Gonzalez", "text": "Ernie Gonzalez\n\nErnie Gonzalez (born February 19, 1961) is an American professional golfer who played on the PGA Tour in the 1980s.\n\nGonzalez was born in San Diego, California. His father was of Mexican descent and his mother was Puerto Rican. He attended the United States International University, where he played on the golf team. He turned professional in 1983.\n\nGonzalez played full-time on the PGA Tour from 1985–1989. He shot a 14-under-par 128 to edge Joey Sindelar by one stroke to win the rain-shortened 36-hole Pensacola Open in 1986 for his only Tour victory. The win by Gonzalez is the first by a left-handed golfer on the PGA Tour since Bob Charles at the 1974 Greater Greensboro Open.\n\nAfter losing his Tour card, Gonzalez worked as a golf instructor and a warehouseman. He has also played in a limited number of Nationwide Tour events, and in select PGA Tour events using exemptions. He lives with his family in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\n\nDNP = did not play<br>\nCUT = missed the half way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place.<br>\nYellow background for top-10.\n"}
{"id": "34634187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34634187", "title": "FasterCures", "text": "FasterCures\n\nFasterCures is a Washington, D.C.–based think tank that focuses on accelerating medical research. This healthcare-related non profit is the Milken Institute's Center for Accelerating Medical Solutions. FasterCures describes itself as an \"action tank\" that works on many diverse projects in collaboration with industry, academia, non profits, government agencies and philanthropic foundations. FasterCures' mission is to save lives by saving time in the discovery, development and deployment of new therapies for deadly and debilitating diseases. The executive director of FasterCures is Tanisha Carino.\n\nIn 2003, The Milken Institute founded FasterCures as its center for accelerating medical solutions. It is now one of five Milken Institute centers. Gregory Simon was the first president of FasterCures and remained there until moving on to be Senior Vice President, Patient Engagement at Pfizer, Inc. After Simon’s departure, Margaret Anderson became the Executive Director of FasterCures. Melissa Stevens is currently the Deputy Executive Director. FasterCures is additionally funded by a $35 million grant given in 2007 from the Sumner M. Redstone Charitable Foundation. Since 2003, FasterCures has grown and evolved to be a leading authority in promoting innovation in medical research. It has partnered with numerous disease research organizations and associations, such as the Council for American Medical Innovation, to spread their message and accomplish common goals.\n\nFasterCures advocates for patient-centered and patient-driven advancements in the medical research community. It works with patient advocates, investors, policymakers, researchers, and any other leaders of medical development to advance four basic areas:\nFasterCures has a number of focused programs that execute these above goals with the purpose of saving lives by saving time.\n\nPartnering for Cures is FasterCures' annual meeting that brings together diverse participants to discuss and solve the crucial issues facing the medical research world today. Partnering for Cures is structured with thought-provoking panels that host well-known speakers from the different sectors of the medical world; presenters from organizations that are boasting innovative approaches to the issues facing health; pro-bono, personalized advice from experts across medical research fields; and a unique partnering systems that allows conference participants to schedule meetings throughout the weekend to collaborate and create new approaches to save and improve lives. The 2012 Partnering for Cures meeting will be the fourth annual conference and will take place on November 28–30, 2012 at the Grand Hyatt New York, New York.\nTRAIN Central Station is a portal that provides tools for venture philanthropists. It identifies and promotes innovative venture philanthropies and acts as a model and resource for other nonprofits, industry, academia, policy makers and the media. TRAIN also provides webinars on hot-button medical research issues in today’s world. The most recent ones included an informational session on NCATS and a question and answer session with FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg. \nThe Philanthropy Advisory Service (PAS) seeks to improve access to medical solutions by easing the philanthropy process. PAS helps philanthropists makes informed decisions about where they should invest their money. PAS was designed to help philanthropists make more impactful donations to medical research by providing information about innovative and efficient disease foundations so that the philanthropists could match their interests to a quality organization and donate wisely.\nPatients Helping Doctors is a program that FasterCures offers to connect patients with resources that will facilitate medical breakthroughs. The different aspects of this program include improving electronic health records, facilitating patient enrollment in clinical trials through a partnership with Emerging Med, and engaging with community physicians to help them participate in clinical research. \nTime Equals Lives, a social media campaign that \"FasterCures\" launched in 2012, spotlights patient stories that are submitted through the www.timeequalslives.org portal. The campaign also provides infographics highlighting key facts and messages about medical research.\n\nFasterCures advocates for greater resources at the Food and Drug Administration. Additionally, FasterCures is invested in promoting translational research through the National Institutes of Health.\n\nFasterCures has released publications to inform different sectors of the medical research industry. The topics surrounding their publications include bridging the “Valley of Death,” improving biobanking, advancing the use of electronic health records, maximizing the impact of patient advocates, how to optimize philanthropic decisions, and FasterCures annual progress reports.\n"}
{"id": "42558799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42558799", "title": "Flowers in the Attic (2014 film)", "text": "Flowers in the Attic (2014 film)\n\nFlowers in the Attic is a 2014 Lifetime movie, starring Kiernan Shipka, Ellen Burstyn, Mason Dye, and Heather Graham. It is the second adaptation of V. C. Andrews’ 1979 novel of the same name. A sequel, \"Petals on the Wind\", based on the novel of the same name, premiered on May 26, 2014, on Lifetime. The network announced the developing of the following books in the series, \"If There Be Thorns\" and \"Seeds of Yesterday\", which both aired in 2015.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the Dollanganger children — 14-year-old Chris, 12-year-old Cathy, 5-year-old twins Carrie and Cory — live happily with their parents, Christopher and Corrine, in Pennsylvania. This changes when Christopher dies in a car crash, leaving the family devastated and heavily in debt. Four months later, Corrine announces they are going to go live with her wealthy parents in Virginia. She explains that she was estranged from her parents and changed her last name because of this.\n\nOn arrival at Foxworth Hall, Corrine's grim, claustrophobic and cold-hearted mother, Olivia, takes the children to a small room in the attic. The next day, the children are given a list of rules and Olivia tells them to stay in the attic at all times. Corrine explains that her father, Malcolm, disowned her for eloping with Christopher, who was actually her biological half-uncle (her father's younger half-brother) and they were disinherited. She promises the children she will make her father forgive her; once he has forgiven her, she will introduce him to the children, and they will live happily together at Foxworth.\n\nCorrine's visits to the attic become less frequent as she begins to enjoy her new-found wealth and starts a relationship with her father's lawyer, Bart Winslow. She informs the children that while her father has forgiven her, she can't let them meet him because she claimed that she didn't have any children; thus, they will have to remain in the attic until Malcolm dies. Corrine's visits all but cease during the next year. Due to lack of fresh air and sunshine, the twins have stopped growing; meanwhile, Cathy and Chris are entering puberty. Chris accidentally walks in on Cathy while she is trying on her first bra. Olivia catches them and calls them sinners and tries to cut off Cathy's hair as punishment. Chris stops her, but she threatens to starve them for a week if he doesn't cut Cathy's hair himself. Cathy and Chris refuse to comply and give their remaining food to the twins while they rely mostly on water. Olivia appears to relent and leaves them a basket of food; however, Cathy awakens to find tar in her hair the next morning. As Chris reluctantly cuts her hair, he tells her that he finds her beautiful, but knows it is wrong to think of her like that.\n\nAnother year passes and Corrine hasn't visited in months. Cathy and Chris conclude that their mother has abandoned them and begin planning their escape. When Corrine does return, she happily announces she has married Bart and the reason for her absence was her honeymoon in Europe. She is upset that the children are not more excited and seems oblivious to the deterioration in the twins. Olivia soon brings the children sugar-powdered doughnuts, which she says are a gift from their mother. Olivia beats Chris with a belt after he demands to be called by his name rather than \"boy.\" Cathy tends to his wounds and admits her fear of losing him. Chris asssures her nothing will happen to him and they kiss. When Olivia comes to deliver their food, Chris tells her that she was right about them being the \"devil's spawn\" and pleads for forgiveness. After she leaves, Chris reveals the whole scene was a scheme to get an impression of the attic key in soap, and he carves a wooden copy.\n\nNow able to leave the attic, Cathy and Chris begin to steal money from their mother's room to finance an escape by train. On a night raid, Cathy finds Bart asleep and kisses him. Chris later overhears his mother and Bart talking about a dream of a young, blonde-haired girl coming into the room and kissing Bart. Chris angrily confronts Cathy, who assures him that the kiss meant nothing and she only did it out of curiosity. She kisses him and they end up having sex. Cathy suggests they move to Florida and Chris tells her that he loves her and can never love anyone else. Cathy tells Olivia and Corrine that Cory is sick and demands her mother take Cory to a hospital, threatening revenge if she doesn't. The next day, Corrine tells them Cory had pneumonia and died, and has already been buried.\n\nDevastated by Cory's death and in fear for their lives, Cathy and Chris decide to take all the money they have collected and grab as much jewelry as they can to finally escape. During their search for valuables, they discover that Corrine and Bart have left Foxworth Hall. Chris overhears a conversation between the butler and a maid, and learns that Olivia has been leaving poison to kill \"the mice\" in the attic and that their grandfather died seven months ago. Cathy shows Chris how Cory's pet mouse has died after eating a piece of powdered doughnut, revealing that the poison was in their food. Olivia then comes to take their key, and Chris restrains her long enough for Cathy and Carrie to escape. Olivia chases after them, but panics due to her claustrophobia when Chris shuts the door and turns the lights off. Olivia tells them that their mother was the one who poisoned them, not her, but they ignore her and climb out the window, fleeing on foot.\n\nDuring their escape, they run into the butler, who realizes they are Corrine's children. Horrified, he tells them to run while he cuts off the electric fence for them. They board a train to Florida and Chris assures her that their ordeal is finally over. Cathy vows revenge on their mother.\n\n\"Flowers in the Attic\" was first announced on July 23, 2013 as a television film for the Lifetime network. It was also announced that the film would star Heather Graham as Corrine Dollanganger and Ellen Burstyn as Olivia Foxworth. It was also announced that the film would be directed by Deborah Chow and written by Kayla Alpert.\n\nOn August 14 it was announced that Kiernan Shipka and Mason Dye had been cast as Cathy and Chris respectively. During the same month, it was announced that Dylan Bruce had joined the cast as Bart Winslow, Corrine's love interest.\n\nIn its original televised airing, the film was watched by 6.06 million total viewers, and had a rating (percentage) of 1.9 in the 18-49 age demographic. At the time, it was cable's number-one original movie performance since the October 2012 premiere of \"Steel Magnolias\".\n\nOn April 15, 2014, \"Flowers in the Attic\" was released in DVD format for Region 1. The single disc featured the entire film, as well as a behind-the-scenes featurette with the cast and crew. It was later re-released on June 23, 2015, with \"Petals on the Wind\" as a \"Double Feature.\" On November 10, 2015, it was included in a \"4-Film Collection\" with \"Petals on the Wind,\" \"If There Be Thorns,\" and \"Seeds of Yesterday.\" \n\n\"Flowers in the Attic\" received mixed reviews from critics. Review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 52% of 23 critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 5.5 out of ten. The film averaged 49 out of 100, based on 22 critics, on Metacritic, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nFor her performance, Burstyn was nominated for a Critics' Choice Television Award, Primetime Emmy Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award. Similarly, Shipka was nominated an Online Film & Television Association Award for her performance.\n\nBased on the next book of the Dollanganger series, \"Petals on the Wind\" premiered on Lifetime on May 26, 2014, earning 3.4 million viewers, down from the 6.1 million earned by \"Flowers\". Unlike the book, the film jumped ten years ahead from the events of \"Flowers\". It starred Rose McIver as Cathy, Wyatt Nash as Christopher, replacing Kiernan Shipka and Mason Dye from the previous movie, respectively, and Will Kemp as Julian Marquet, with Heather Graham as Corrine and Ellen Burstyn as Olivia Foxworth. Production for the film began on February 25, 2014, in Los Angeles.\n\nOn the premiere of the sequel, Lifetime announced the production of the two following books in the Dollanganger series, \"If There Be Thorns\" and \"Seeds of Yesterday\", both which premiered in 2015. Both sequels were shot by cinematographer James Liston. In order to achieve the timeless cinematic look, vintage anamorphic lenses were used to create more depth and atmosphere in the images.\n"}
{"id": "53068649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53068649", "title": "Herbert Alward", "text": "Herbert Alward\n\nHerbert Alward was an Austrian figure skater who competed in men's singles.\n\nHe won the bronze medal in men's single skating at the 1938 World Figure Skating Championships.\n\nNote: \"Gau-Championships\" (\"Ostmark\" Championships) were held instead of Austrian Championships from 1938 to 1943.\n"}
{"id": "8238114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8238114", "title": "History of model organisms", "text": "History of model organisms\n\nThe history of model organisms began with the idea that certain organisms can be studied and used to gain knowledge of other organisms or as a control (ideal) for other organisms of the same species. Model organisms offer standards that serve as the authorized basis for comparison of other organisms. Model organisms are made standard by limiting genetic variance, creating, hopefully, this broad applicability to other organisms.\n\nThe idea of the model organism first took roots in the middle of the 19th century with the work of men like Charles Darwin and Gregor Mendel and their respective work on natural selection and the genetics of heredity. These early works in finding standards to compare organisms against continued into the 20th century as the first model organisms were brought into laboratories. Beginning in the early 1900s \"Drosophila\" entered the research laboratories and opened up the doors for other model organisms like Tobacco mosaic virus, E. coli, C57BL/6 (lab mice), etc. These organisms have led to many advances in the past century.\n\nSome of the first work with what would be considered model organisms started because Gregor Johann Mendel felt that the views of Darwin were insufficient in describing the formation of a new species and he began his work with the pea plants that are so famously known today. In his experimentation to find a method by which Darwin’s ideas could be explained he hybridized and cross-bred the peas and found that in so doing he could isolate phenotypic characteristics of the peas. These discoveries made in the 1860s lay dormant for nearly forty years until they were rediscovered in 1900. Mendel’s work was then correlated with what was being called chromosomes within the nucleus of each cell. Mendel created a practical guide to breeding and this method has successfully been applied to select for some of the first model organisms of other genus and species such as Guinea pigs, \"Drosophila\" (fruit fly), mice, and viruses like the tobacco mosaic virus.\n\nThe fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" made the jump from nature to laboratory animal in 1901. At Harvard University, Charles W. Woodworth suggested to William E. Castle that \"Drosophila\" might be used for genetical work. Castle, along with his students, then first brought the fly into their labs for experimental use. By 1903 William J. Moenkhaus had brought \"Drosophila\" back to his lab at Indiana University Med School. Moenkhaus in turn convinced entomologist Frank E. Lutz that it would be a good organism for the work he was doing at Carnegie Institution’s Station for Experimental Evolution at Cold Springs Harbor, Long Island on experimental evolution. Sometime in the year 1906 \"Drosophila\" was adopted by the man who would become very well known for his work with the flies, Thomas Hunt Morgan. A man by the name of Jacques Loeb also tried experimentation in mutations of \"Drosophila\" independently of Morgan’s work during the 1st decade of the twentieth century.\n\nThomas Hunt Morgan is considered to be one of the most influential men in experimental biology during the early twentieth century and his work with the \"Drosophila\" was extensive. He was one of the first in the field to realize the potential of mapping the chromosomes of \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and all known mutants. He would later expand his findings to a comparative study of other species. With careful and painstaking observation he and other \"Drosophilists\" were able to control for mutations and cross breed for new phenotypes. Through many years of work like this standards of these flies have become quite uniform and are still used in research today.\n\nInsects were not the only organisms entering the laboratories as test subjects. Bacteria had also been introduced and with the invention of the electron microscope in 1931 by Ernst Ruska, a whole new field of microbiology was born. This invention allowed microbiologists to see objects that were far too small to be seen by any light microscope and thus viruses which had perplexed biologists of many fields for years, now came under scientific scrutiny. In 1932 Wendell Stanley began a direct competition with Carl G. Vinson to be the first to completely isolate the Tobacco Mosaic Virus, a virus that had been until then invisibly killing tobacco plants across England. It was Stanley who would accomplish this task first by changing the pH to one a more acidic one. In doing so he was able to conclude that the virus was either a protein or closely related to one, thus benefiting experimental research.\n\nThere are very important reasons why these new, much smaller organisms such as the Tobacco Mosaic Virus and \"E. coli\" made their way into the molecular biologists’ laboratories. Organisms like \"Drosophila\" and \"Tribolium\" were much too large and too complex for the simple quantitative experiments that men like Wendell Stanley wanted to perform. Before the use of these simple organisms molecular biologist had comparatively complex organisms to work with.\n\nToday these viruses, including bacteriophages, are used extensively in genetics. They are critical in helping researchers to produce DNA within bacteria. The Tobacco Mosaic Virus has DNA that stacks itself in a distinctive way that was influential in Watson and Cricks development of their model of the helical structure for DNA.\n\nBoth the community of insects and the viruses were a good start to the history of model organisms, but there are yet still more players involved. At the turn of the century much biomedical research was being done using animals and especially mammalian bodies to further biologists’ understanding of life processes. It was around this time that American humane societies became very involved with preserving the rights of animal and for the first time were beginning to gain public support for this endeavor. At this same time American biology was also going through its own internal reforms. From 1900 to 1910 thirty medical schools were forced to close. During this time of unrest a man named Clarence Cook Little, through a series of luckily timed events, became a researcher at Harvard Medical School and worked on mouse cancers. He began developing large, mutant strain, colonies of mice. Under the charge of Dr. William Castle, Little helped to expand the animal breeding habits in the Bussey laboratory at Harvard. Due to freedom in the way Castle was allowed to run the laboratory and his financial backing by the University they were able to create an extensive program in mammalian genetics.\n\nThe mice turned out to be an almost perfect solution for test subjects for mammalian genetic research. The fact that they had been bred by ‘rat fanciers’ for hundreds of years allowed for diverse populations of an animal while the public held far less sentiment for these rodents than they did for dogs and cats. Because of social allowance, Little was able to take new ideas of ‘pure genetic strains’ merging from plant genetics as well as work with \"Drosophila\" and run with them. The idea of inbreeding to achieve this goal of a ‘pure strain’ in mice was one that may have created a negative response to the fertility of the mice thus discontinuing the strain. Little achieved his goal of a genetically pure strain of mice by 1911 and published his finding shortly thereafter.\nHe would continue his work with these mice and used his research to demonstrate that inbreeding is an effective way of eliminate variation and served to preserve unique genetic variants. Around this time as well there was much work being done with these mice and cancer and tumor research.\nThroughout the 1920s’ work continued with these mice as model organisms for research into tumors and genetics. It was during the great depression that this field of study would take its biggest blow. With the economy at rock bottom labs were forced into selling many of their mice just to keep from shutting down. This necessity for funds all but stopped the continuation of these strains of mice. The transition for these laboratories to exporters of massive quantities of mice was one that was rather easily made if there were adequate facilities for their production on site. Eventually in the mid-1930s the market would return and genetics laboratories around the country resumed regular funding and thus continued in the areas of research they had started before the depression. As research into continued, so did the production of mice in places like Jackson Laboratory. Facilities like these were able to produce mice for research facilities around the world. These mice were bred with Mendelian breeding technique of which Little had implemented as standard practice around 1911. This meant that the mice being experimented on were not only the same within the laboratory, but in different laboratories around the world.\n\nThe mouse has remained important as molecular genetics and genomics have progressed; sequencing of a reference mouse genome was completed in 2002.\nMore broadly, comparative genomics has advanced our understanding and reinforced the importance of model organisms, especially ones with relatively small and nonrepetitive genomes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22644230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22644230", "title": "Huffaker's mite experiment", "text": "Huffaker's mite experiment\n\nIn 1958, Carl B. Huffaker, an ecologist and agricultural entomologist at the University of California, Berkeley, did a series of experiments with predatory and herbivorous mite species to investigate predator–prey population dynamics. In these experiments, he created model universes with arrays of rubber balls and oranges (food for the herbivorous mites) on trays and then introduced the predator and prey mite species in various permutations. Specifically, Huffaker was seeking to understand how spatial heterogeneity and the varying dispersal ability of each species affected long-term population dynamics and survival. Contrary to previous experiments on this topic (especially those by Georgii Gause), he found that long-term coexistence was possible under select environmental conditions. He published his findings in the paper, \"Experimental Studies on Predation: Dispersion Factors and Predator–Prey Oscillations\".\n\nThe aim of Huffaker’s 1958 experiment was to “shed light upon the fundamental nature of predator–prey interaction” and to “establish an ecosystem in which a predatory and a prey species could continue living together so that the phenomena associated with their interactions could be studied in detail”. He used two mite species, the six-spotted mite \"Eotetranychus sexmaculatus\" as the prey species and \"Typhlodromus occidentalis\" as the predatory species. Oranges provided a background environment and a food source for the herbivorous mites. The amount of available food on each orange was controlled by sealing off portions of each orange using damp paper and paraffin wax. Huffaker introduced patchiness into the system by replacing oranges with rubber balls of a similar size. He referred to the resultant systems as \"universes.\" Huffaker created a series of 12 universes in his experiment, trying different arrangements to reach a universe in which the predator population would not annihilate the prey population, and in which, instead, the two species could coexist.\n\nHuffaker set up three different \"universes\" to examine the effect of patchiness on the prey species' population dynamics. 20 prey species mites were initially placed on one orange; their population was observed and recorded over several weeks. Huffaker noted that one source of error was the difference in nutritional value between oranges. Oranges were replaced every 11 days. The mites had the chance to deplete the nutritional value of the oranges completely before replacement. Temperature and humidity were kept constant at and above 55%.\n\nUniverse A: 4 half exposed oranges clumped together.\n\nUniverse B: 4 half exposed oranges spread between 36 orange balls.\n\nUniverse C: 20 oranges with 1/10 exposed alternated with 20 rubber balls.\n\nHuffaker found that mites migrated to new oranges only when the original orange habitat and food source had been depleted or overpopulated. Each universe produced a fluctuating mite population due to complete exploitation of orange resources leading to population spikes followed by rapid declines. Universe B had more stable oscillations, but a lower average population. Huffaker attributed this to the combination of dispersal difficulty and food supply; the other two universes only dealt with food supply because the food sources were so close together that dispersal did not play a major role in population dynamics.\n\nHuffaker created nine different universes to examine the effect of predator–prey interaction and spatial heterogeneity on populations of predator and prey species. Prey species were always added several days before predator species were added. Predator species were placed on oranges colonized by prey species. Additionally, Huffaker spread petroleum jelly on the trays between the oranges and rubber balls to serve as an \"impediment but not an exclusion to movement\" of the mites, creating heterogeneity. These universes fell into three groups.\n\nIn this group the orange food sources were close together, requiring very little migration effort by either prey or predator species. Changes between the universes were only in amount of food available for the prey species. The effect of food source abundance on population dynamics was tested here.\n\nUniverse A: 4 half exposed oranges close together, the same as universe A of part 1.\n\nUniverse B: (increased food source) 8 half exposed oranges grouped together and joined by wires. 40 mites were released initially, 20 mites on 2 oranges.\n\nUniverse C: (increased food source again) 6 wholly exposed oranges grouped together. Prey introduced on 2 of the oranges. Predators introduced on only one orange.\n\nIn this group the food sources were not continuous, but were dispersed among rubber balls. This added an element of difficulty for dispersal of prey and predator species. The effects of spatial heterogeneity and mites species' searching ability on predator and prey population dynamics were tested here.\n\nUniverse D: (food source dispersal introduced) 4 half exposed oranges dispersed randomly among 36 rubber balls. (difficulty reaching other oranges)\n\nUniverse E: (increase food source) 8 half exposed oranges dispersed among 32 rubber balls.\n\nUniverse F: 20 oranges with 1/10 exposed alternated with 20 rubber balls\n\nIn this group the food source was continuous, but much less of each orange was exposed (only 1/20th) and petroleum jelly was placed between regions to make dispersal of prey and predator species more difficult. The petroleum jelly did not exclude the predator species, but did make access to the prey species more difficult. The third universe also included a dispersal method for the prey species, wooden posts on the oranges to facilitate movement. This group tested the effect of dispersal ability on predator–prey population dynamics.\n\nUniverse G: 40 oranges with 1/20th of each orange exposed. No rubber balls making every site a food source. A petroleum jelly barrier dividing the tray of oranges into 3 areas.\n\nUniverse H: 120 oranges with 1/20th of each orange exposed. No rubber balls.\n\nUniverse I: 120 oranges with 1/20th of each orange exposed. No rubber balls. 120 prey species mites were places on 120 oranges to start, 1 mite on each orange. In this set up small wooden posts, similar to toothpicks, were placed in each major section of the universe. An electric fan was turned on near the trays so that the prey mite species, which has the ability to drop using silk strands and to be carried by air currents, was able to disperse more easily than the predator species, which does not have these capabilities.\n\nPopulation dynamics of Universe 3: 3 population level oscillations for both predator and prey species. This was the result that Huffaker was aiming for; all other universes yielded just one population density peak followed by extinction of the predator species in all cases, and extinction, or near extinction of the prey species.\n\nAll of the universes except for universe 3 had just one population oscillation for both the predator and prey species, and in most cases both species became extinct after the initial peak and decline. Extinction would occur after the predator species had completely exploited the prey species and then lacking a food source, would starve to death itself. In contrast, Universe I had three population peaks.\n\nHuffaker wrote: “utilizing a large and more complex environment so as to make less likely the predators’ contact with the prey at all positions at once, or essentially so, it was possible to produce three waves or oscillations in density of predators and prey. That these waves represent a direct and reciprocal predator-prey dependence is obvious.”\n\nCentral to Huffaker’s investigations is the concept of predator–prey interactions. In general, predation is believed to reduce prey populations. However, there are notable exceptions to this rule. For example, some plants have been shown to increase growth rates in response to herbivory.\n\nThe Lotka–Volterra predator–prey model describes the basic population dynamics under predation. The solution to these equations in the simple one-predator species, one-prey species model is a stable linked oscillation of population levels for both predator and prey. However, when time lags between respective population growths are modeled, these oscillations will tend to amplify, eventually leading to extinction of both species. The Ricker model exemplifies this dynamic.\n\nThe Russian ecologist Georgii Gause demonstrated the tendency toward extinction among predator–prey populations with a series of experiments in 1934. He found that in experiments with \"Didinium nasutum\" (predator) and \"Paramecium caudatum\" (prey), \"D. nausatum\" overexploited \"P. caudatum\" leading first to its extinction and subsequently to its own.\n\nIn his 1958 experiment, Huffaker was probing further into Gause’s conclusion about overexploitation. Specifically, he was examining how environmental factors (grouping, patchiness, ease of motion) could affect the population dynamics to the point of achieving coexistence over multiple cycles. Some of the main questions that Huffaker set out in his experiment were, “Is the predator–prey relation adequately described by the Gause theory of overexploitation?”, “What may be the effects of changes in the physical conditions upon the degree of stability or permanence of the predator–prey relation?” and “What is the order of influence on stability of population density of such parameters as shelter (from physical adversity of environment), food, disease, and natural enemies of other kinds?” In short, these questions seek to understand the effect of spatial heterogeneity on the population system.\n\nSpatial heterogeneity is the variation of an environment over space (e.g. differences between oranges and balls). Huffaker was expanding upon Gause's experiments by further introducing heterogeneity. Gause's experiments had found that predator and prey populations would become extinct regardless of initial population size. However, Gause also concluded that a predator–prey community could be self-sustaining if there were refuges for the prey population.\n\nThrough his experiments, Huffaker attempted to show that refuges were not necessary for maintenance of prey populations. He believed instead that spatial heterogeneity and its differing effects on the species' dispersal ability could create a moving refuge for the prey population. Indeed, by creating a patchy system that facilitated prey dispersal over predator dispersal, Huffaker was able to achieve a predator–prey system which underwent three cycles of population fluctuation.\n\nTo prevent extinction of the mites, Huffaker introduced spatial heterogeneity in several ways. Like Gause, he manipulated dispersal within the system. The addition of petroleum jelly barriers and toothpicks added heterogeneity in the landscape and allowed the prey mites to disperse more readily than the predator mites. Also by patchily distributing the oranges, Huffaker created a system of sub-populations aggregating into a more stable meta-population. These two manipulations of spatial heterogeneity allowed for natural fluctuations and “extinctions” of populations to occur locally without causing extinctions in the overall meta-population.\n\nHuffaker’s experimental universes showed that while under many circumstances predator–prey interactions will lead to extinction of both populations, interactions of spatial heterogeneity, dispersal ability of predator and prey species, and distribution of food sources can create an environment in which predator and prey species can coexist. The distribution of one prey species placed on each of 120 oranges, the impediments to predator movement created by the petroleum jelly divisions between sections of oranges, and the dispersal aid of wooden sticks for the prey species, all worked together to create a spatially heterogeneous environment in which both the predator and prey species survived for three population cycles. Huffaker ultimately concluded that, with added spatial heterogeneity, these mite populations could have continued to oscillate beyond three cycles. Looking forward, Huffaker noted the importance of understanding these concepts with respect to understanding the impact of monocultures (i.e. low spatial heterogeneity) in industrial agriculture on biodiversity.\n\nHuffaker, C. B. \"Experimental Studies on Predation: Dispersion Factors and Predator–Prey Oscillations.\" Hilgardia: A Journal of Agricultural Science 27 (1958): 343–384.\n"}
{"id": "15946769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15946769", "title": "Igunaq", "text": "Igunaq\n\nIgunaq (Inuktitut: ᐃᒍᓇᖅ) , also Kopalhen (Chukchi: копалгын [kopalgyn]) - part of the Inuit, Chukchi, Nenets, Evenki diets. It is a method of preparing meat, particularly walrus and other marine mammals. Meat and fat caught in the summer is buried in the ground as steaks, which then ferment over autumn and freeze over winter, ready for consumption the next year. Igunaq is considered a delicacy and is quite valuable. Consumption has declined over the years as a wider range of foodstuffs has become available in the Arctic regions. It is also not without risk – improper production can lead to illness and death through botulism.\n\nFermented fish and fermented food is part of many traditional cuisines worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "29461995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29461995", "title": "John Alford (Parliamentarian)", "text": "John Alford (Parliamentarian)\n\nJohn Alford (c. 1590 – 5 January 1649) was an English landowner and politician who sat in the House of Commons in two periods between 1626 and 1648. He supported the Parliamentarian side in the English Civil War.\n\nAlford was the son of Edward Alford of Offington and his wife Judith Downing, daughter of Sir Edward Downing. He martriculated at St John's College, Oxford, on 13 February 1607 aged 16.\n\nIn 1626 Alford was elected Member of Parliament for New Shoreham and in 1628 was elected MP for Arundel until 1629 when King Charles decided to rule without parliament for eleven years. The manors of Hamsey and Offington both came into his possession on the death of his father in 1632.\n\nIn April 1640, Alford was re-elected MP for New Shoreham in the Short Parliament and again in November 1640 for the Long Parliament and held the seat until 1648 when he was excluded in Pride's Purge.\n\nAlford died in 1649 and was buried at Broadwater, West Sussex where a monument in the South Transept Chapel was erected to his memory.\n\n\"Here lyeth the body of the truly honourable and religious John Alford of Offington, Esquire, who having finished his career, exchanged mortality for glory, Jan. 5, 1648. AEt. 59.\n\"He left issue ye noble Lady Jane Eversfield, and the virtuous gentele woman Mrs. Elizabeth Alford.\"\n\nAlford married Frances Bishopp, daughter of Sir Thomas Bishopp, 1st Baronet, of Parham, Sussex, M.P., and had two daughters Elizabeth, born 1620, who married Mr. Bickerstaff, and was Jane, who married Sir Thomas Eversfield. His widow outlived him for eleven years.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "796587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796587", "title": "João Saldanha", "text": "João Saldanha\n\nJoão Alves Jobin Saldanha (3 July 1917 – 12 July 1990) was a Brazilian journalist and football manager. He coached the Brazil national football team during the South American Qualifying to the 1970 FIFA World Cup. Nicknamed \"João Sem Medo\" (\"Fearless João\") by Nelson Rodrigues, Saldanha played for Botafogo. He then started a career in journalism and became one of Brazil's most prolific sports columnists. He often criticised players, managers and teams, and was a member of then-illegal Brazilian Communist Party (\"Partido Comunista Brasileiro – PCB\").\n\nIn 1957, Botafogo appointed him as their coach, despite his lack of managerial experience. The club won the Rio state championship that season, but Saldanha resigned from the club in 1959. In 1969, he was invited to take charge of the national team, and led them to a perfect 6-0 record. It is alleged that soccer federation president João Havelange appointed him in the hope that journalists would be less critical of the national team if one of their own was in charge.\n\nSaldanha was publicly criticised by Dorival Yustrich, coach of Flamengo. Saldanha responded by confronting him while brandishing a revolver. Saldanha was said to have fallen out of favour because of his unwillingness to select players who were personal favourites of President Emílio Garrastazu Médici, in particular striker Dario (Brazil was then a military dictatorship). It is reported that Saldanha, after being told that President Médici would be pleased to see Dario in the team, answered, \"well, I also have some suggestions to give in the President's ministry choices\". The last straw came when the assistant manager resigned, saying that Saldanha was impossible to work with. He was eventually replaced by Zagallo, who led the team to their third victory in the 1970 World Cup.\n\nSaldanha returned to his career in journalism and later became a critic of what he perceived as the \"Europeanisation of Brazilian football\"; the adoption of more defensive schemes and the loss of features such as the \"jogo bonito\" style typical of offensive playing. In an interview to TV Cultura's \"Roda Viva\" Saldanha recalled his period as coach of the national team as bittersweet, since a lot of his friends at PCB were being killed by the political repression led by President Médici. He travelled to Italy to provide the news coverage of the 1990 FIFA World Cup for Rede Manchete. He was debilitated due to his cigarette addiction and died in Rome on 12 July 1990, just four days after the end of the tournament.\n\nBotafogo\n\nStarting from 2004, the winners of the second turn of the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, are awarded with the \"Troféu João Saldanha\", given by the Brazilian newspaper \"Lance!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53425990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53425990", "title": "Juan de Albarracín", "text": "Juan de Albarracín\n\nJuan de Albarracín (?, Castile – ?, Castile) was a Spanish conquistador who participated in the Spanish conquest of the Muisca and Panche people. He was captain of the brigs which sailed up the Magdalena River from the Caribbean coast in 1536 and later discovered the high quality salt that lead the Spanish conquistadors along the \"Camino de la Sal\" up the slopes of the eastern ranges of the Colombian Andes towards the Muisca Confederation.\n\nDe Albarracín left Spain with his father-in-law Pedro de Lugo for the New World, arriving in January 1536 in Santa Marta. De Albarracín taught the men under his command to fish for pearls, near Cabo de la Vela in northernmost present-day Colombia. De Albarracín joined the expedition in search of \"El Dorado\", the journey led by Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada which left Santa Marta in April 1536. Juan de Albarracín was one of the three captains of the brigs that De Quesada sent up the Magdalena River; the other two were Gómez del Corral and Antonio Díaz de Cardoso.\n\nDuring the strenuous journey, in La Tora, present-day Barrancabermeja, De Quesada sent troops ahead to investigate routes towards the then unknown Andes. De Albarracín and Díaz de Cardoso found the loafs of high quality salt that would lead the conquistadors along the \"Camino de la Sal\" or \"Salt Route\" into the Muisca Confederation.\n\nTogether with Martín Galeano De Albarracín participated in battles against the bellicose Panche people, commanded by Juan de Céspedes. When the two conquistadors Nikolaus Federmann and Sebastián de Belalcázar had arrived on the Bogotá savanna after the foundation of Bogotá as capital of the New Kingdom of Granada by De Quesada on August 6, 1538, they left with De Albarracín for Guataquí, a town they founded. In Guataquí, on the Magdalena River, he ordered the construction of two small boats by indigenous people to sail the conquistadors back to Spain via Cartagena. \n\nDe Albarracín settled in a mansion in Jérez de la Frontera and never returned to the New Kingdom.\n\nDe Albarracín was married to Ana de Lugo, who sailed to the new world with him, and the couple had three sons and three daughters. His grandson Pedro de Lugo Albarracin was the sculptor of various images of Jesus Christ in the Colombian capital Bogata. De Albarracín died in Spain in an unknown year.\n\nJuan de Albarracín is mentioned as \"Albarracín\" in the early chronicle about the Spanish conquest, a work of uncertain authorship; \"Epítome de la conquista del Nuevo Reino de Granada\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52141066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52141066", "title": "Leiden Bio Science Park", "text": "Leiden Bio Science Park\n\nThe Leiden Bio Science park (LBSP) ranks in the top five of the most successful science parks in Europe. It is part of Leiden and Oegstgeest and focuses on companies and Universities in the Biotechnology sector.\n\nThe park comprises 110 hectares (272 acres) with over 60 companies and knowledge-based institutions. The park is located mostly in Leiden and lies between Wassenaarseweg on the north and the Plesmanlaan on the south.\n\nThe park focuses mostly on the use of biotechnology for medical and biopharmaceutical applications.\n\nThe LBSP was founded in 1984 in the Leeuwenhoek area west of Leiden Central Station, between the Faculty of Science of the Leiden University and the former Academic Medical Hospital, known as the LUMC. The municipality decided that this area should primarily be focused on biotechnology.\n\nIn 2005 the foundation\" Leiden Life meets Science\" was founded by the Leiden University, the municipality, the LUMC, TNO, Naturalis, Chamber of Commerce, the province South Holland, University of Applied Sciences, and the ROC Leiden, with the purpose of growth the park in size and quality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2346762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346762", "title": "Louis-Michel Aury", "text": "Louis-Michel Aury\n\nLouis-Michel Aury (1788–August 30, 1821) was a French privateer operating in the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean during the early 19th century. \n\nLouis Michel-Aury was born in Paris, France, around 1788. \n\nLouis Aury served in the French Navy from 1802 or 1803 until 1811 as a sailor on a ship stationed in the French colonies of the West Indies. From 1802 he crewed on privateer ships, and by 1810 he had accumulated enough prize money to become the master of his own vessel. He participated in various privateering and filibuster efforts to overturn governments in East Florida, Mexico, Spanish Texas, the Caribbean Sea, Central America, and South America.\nAury decided to support the Spanish colonies of South America in their fight for independence from Spanish rule. In April 1813 he sailed from North Carolina on his own privateer ship with Venezuelan Letters of Marque to attack Spanish ships. He was then commissioned as a commodore in the navy of New Granada (now Colombia), at considerable personal expense, in December 1815 ran the Spanish blockade and evacuated hundreds of people in his vessels from the besieged fortress city of Cartagena de Indias (Colombia) to Haiti. In spite of his success in this dangerous exploit he argued with Simón Bolívar, leader of the Latin American revolutionaries, over payment for his services in organizing the unsuccessful naval expedition to Los Cayos.\n\nAury subsequently accepted an appointment as resident commissioner of Galveston Island, Texas, made by José Manuel de Herrera, an envoy from the fledgling Republic of Mexico, who had declared Galveston a port of the Republic. Aury established a privateering base there in September 1816.\n\nOne of Aury's privateers had captured a Spanish vessel from Tampico, and letters found on board revealed that the port of Soto La Marina on the Soto La Marina River (also called the Santander) in Mexico was undefended. Learning this, Gen. Francisco Mina and Col. Henry Perry resolved to make a descent upon the place, and Aury agreed to transport them. They sailed from Galveston April 6, 1817, and the town was taken without a fight. The three commanders squabbled, and Aury left with his ships for Galveston. Mina, whose plan was to join the southern Mexican revolutionaries led by Guadalupe Victoria, marched inland and was captured by royal Spanish troops and executed by firing squad on a hill close to the Fuerte de los Remedios.\n\nHowever, while Aury was away, the pirate Jean Lafitte had taken control of the base at Galveston. On his return to Texas, Aury made an ill-fated attempt to establish another base at Matagorda Bay. He finally left Texas in 1817 to assist the Scottish adventurer Gregor MacGregor, who claimed to be commissioned by representatives of the revolting South American countries, in attacking Spanish Florida from Amelia Island. MacGregor left the island on September 4, and Aury sailed into the port of Fernandina on September 17, 1817. Following negotiations with MacGregor's lieutenants, Ruggles Hubbard and Jared Irwin, Amelia Island was dubiously annexed to the Republic of Mexico on September 21, 1817, and its flag raised over Fort San Carlos. Aury surrendered the island to American forces under the command of Commodore J.D. Henley and Major James Bankhead on December 23, 1817. Aury remained over two months as an unwelcome guest; Bankhead occupied Fernandina and President James Monroe vowed to hold it \"in trust for Spain\". This episode in Florida's history became known as the Amelia Island Affair.\n\nOn 4 July 1818 Aury captured Old Providence Island (Isla de Providencia) in the western Caribbean with the help of 400 men and 14 ships. He found the island populated by white English-speaking Protestants and their slaves. Aury, Agostino Codazzi, and his team used the islands as his new base from which to pursue Central American independence and founded a settlement with a thriving economy based on captured Spanish cargo, while unsuccessfully trying to rebuild good relations with Bolívar. Under orders of Aury, Agostino Codazzi established the Fort Libertad on Saint Catherine Island.\n\nIn 1820 Guatemala City was still the capital of the Captaincy General of Guatemala, so Central America was seen as yet under the sway of Spain, and thus was open to attack from its enemies. In an attempt to secure their independence, the Gran Colombian insurgents and the Aury flotilla fitted a combined sea and land expedition to operate against the ports of Omoa and Trujillo, in Honduras.\n\nOn 21 April 1820, the watch-tower at Capiro in Trujillo Port announced the approach of a Colombian flotilla. The port's garrison, commanded by Jose M. Palomar, at once made emergency preparations for the impending attack. At two o'clock in the afternoon the approaching flotilla hoisted a flag with two blue bars and a white one between them showing an escutcheon in the center similar to the Argentinian flag; Aury dispatched a boat to shore to demand the port’s surrender within one hour. The town did not comply. The following day Commodore Aury moved the flotilla to the mouth of the Guaimoreto River and began bombardment. The attack started at 9 AM and lasted until 2 PM. The firing ceased when the flotilla was ordered out to sea and out of the reach of the port’s cannons. A portion of the land force then attempted to enter the town by the rear, but was detected and driven out.\n\nDuring the night of the 24th, the Aury vessels dropped out of sight. On the 25th the flotilla appeared off the port of Omoa and for several days attempted to land. Commodore Aury failed and left the area on the 6th of May.\n\nSome historians, for example Miguel Ángel de Marco, suggest that the flags of the United Provinces of Central America and most of the states that composed it were inspired by the Argentine Flag that privateer Hippolyte Bouchard took with him. Others claim that the flag was modeled on the Argentine flag, but introduced by Commodore Louis-Michel Aury.\n\nA document drawn up by the justice of the peace and chief of police of the isles of Santa Catalina and Old Providence reported Aury's death on August 30, 1821, possibly thrown by a horse. On September 3 of the same year, the same official made an inventory of Aury's possessions, which he left to his sister Victoire Aury (Madame Dupuis). Although he is not officially recognized by any of the countries he served, Aury was perceived as a member of the Great Colombia liberation fighters because of his affiliation with Simon Bolivar.\n\n\"History of Central America\", by Hubert Howe Bancroft\n\n"}
{"id": "33625723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33625723", "title": "Lucy Beall Candler Owens Heinz Leide", "text": "Lucy Beall Candler Owens Heinz Leide\n\nLucy Beall Candler Owens Heinz Leide (April 11, 1883 – 3 September 1962) was the only daughter of The Coca-Cola Company co-founder Asa Griggs Candler.\n\nShe was born on April 11, 1883 in Atlanta, Georgia. Growing up, she learned to play the piano. She lived with her parents at Callan Castle at 61 Elizabeth Street in the Atlanta, Georgia neighborhood Inman Park. She attended school at West End Institute. She played the organ for Inman Park Methodist Church. She attended Agnes Scott College in neighboring Decatur, Georgia.\n\nOn June 11, 1903, she married her first husband William Davies Owens. He would become an assistant cashier (a manager) at Central Bank and Trust in Atlanta, the bank that Asa Candler started in 1905. At first they lived together in her parents’ home, In 1910 they moved to a newly built home in nearby Druid Hills which would become known as The Goose. It was located at what is now 1449 South Ponce de Leon Avenue. In 1968 the home would become the Mother Goose day care center, and later classroom space for The Paideia School until it burned down in 2009. William Owens died of influenza and a heart attack in the house in 1914. Lucy suffered from a serious bout of typhoid fever.\n\nAround 1920 she married Henry Heinz, a banker and president of Kiwanis International. Heinz was shot by a burglar at their home, Rainbow Terrace, in 1943. A black railroad worker confessed to the crime, but rumours persisted that a relative murdered Heinz.\n\nAround 1945 she married Enrico Leide, a concert cellist and orchestra conductor, conducting the first Atlanta Symphony Orchestra from 1920 to 1930. He was the brother of violinist and composer Manoah Leide-Tedesco.\n\nShe died on 3 September 1962 aboard the RMS \"Caronia\" while on a cruise of the Mediterranean Sea.\n"}
{"id": "10466967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10466967", "title": "Luis de Carvajal y de la Cueva", "text": "Luis de Carvajal y de la Cueva\n\nLuis de Carvajal (sometimes Luis de Carabajal y de la Cueva) (c. 1537–1591) was governor of the Spanish province of Nuevo León in present-day Mexico, an alleged slave trader, and the first Spanish subject known to have entered Texas from Mexico across the lower Rio Grande.\n\nHe was a Portuguese-born, Spanish-Crown officer, who was awarded a large swath of territory in New Spain, known as Nuevo Reino de León, in 1579. He was born in Mogadouro, Portugal, around 1537, but was raised in the Kingdom of León, Spain at the home of the Count of Benavente, a contemporary and friend of Philip II, who named Carvajal Governor of Nuevo Reino de León and granted him many privileges on the basis of previous services to the Spanish Crown.\n\nThe territory granted to Carvajal included some portions in the south that had been settled by other Spaniards who refused to accept the terms of the grant and sued Carvajal before the highest court in New Spain. The suits were decided in favor of Carvajal, but Álvaro Manrique de Zúñiga, marqués de Villamanrique, viceroy of New Spain, ordered the arrest of Carvajal in 1588, charging that Carvajal was enslaving Indians. Carvajal was accused of several charges by the Inquisition in Mexico City, but only the charge of concealing that his relatives secretly practiced Judaism was upheld. Sentenced to exile, he was first sent back to the court's jail, where he died a year later.\n\nCarvajal was born circa 1537 in Mogadouro, Portugal, to Gaspar de Carvajal and Catalina de León, descendants of Jewish \"conversos\" (converts to Catholicism).\n\nWhen he was eight years old, his family took him to Benavente, in the Spanish Kingdom of León. There, he was placed, probably as a page, in the house of the Count of Benavente, where he learned the manners and language of a Spanish nobleman. He lived there until his maternal uncle, Duarte de León, a wealthy Portuguese contractor sent him to the Portuguese islands of Cape Verde. There Carvajal learned a variety of skills, including navigation, accounting, and probably some military skills. In 1560, D. Sebastian, king of Portugal, named him treasurer for the assets of the deceased.\n\nIn 1564, Carvajal left Cape Verde and went to Seville, where he married Guiomar Nuñez or Nunes, later known as Guitar de Ribera, the oldest daughter of Miguel Nuñez or Nunes, a Portuguese merchant stationed in Santo Domingo as an agent in the slave trade. By the time Carvajal married, his father-in-law was involved in the transportation of wheat, a lucrative business in those days. He joined the business for about two years, but abandoned it because of his ambitious plans.\n\nIn 1567, Carvajal sailed for New Spain in his own ship as Admiral of a merchant fleet that sailed from the Canary Islands. Upon his arrival in Veracruz, he purchased a cattle hacienda near Tampico, and settled in that village, become its mayor the following year. In late 1568, Carvajal captured 78 Englishmen marooned on the Tamaulipas coast by John Hawkins, who had lost some of his ships in a fight with the Spanish fleet at Veracruz.\n\nIn 1572, Viceroy Martín Enríquez de Almanza, he commissioned Carvajal a captain, sending him to open a road through the mountains between the Pánuco and Mazapil. This long expedition resulted in the discovery, by Carvajal, of a mountain pass that allowed him to achieve his goal and that enabled him to discover the lands that later become Nuevo Reino de León. After that expedition was completed, Carvajal was sent to chastise hostile Indian bands at the mouth of the Río Bravo (Rio Grande). He claimed to have punished the natives responsible for the massacre of 400 castaways from three ships wrecked on the coast en route to and from Spain. During the campaign, he crossed the lower Rio Grande into what is now Texas.\n\nDue to his reputation as an Indian fighter, Viceroy Enríquez de Almanza commissioned him in 1575 to join Capt. Francisco de Puga to pacify a large area north of Mexico City centered in Xalpa (present day Jalpan de Serra, Queretaro). The Indian tribes collectively known as Chichimecas had destroyed the Catholic missions in the area. Carvajal, using Indian labor, built a fort and resettled a large number of \"pacified\" Indians near the fort, a policy known in Spanish Latin America as reductions. However, whatever victories he achieved did not endure as the local Indians, the Pames, soon resumed the war. During this period, Carvajal continued his business dealings by trading in slaves and cochineal.\n\nIn 1578, after obtaining an endorsement from the viceroy and the Audiencia de México for his desire to be granted an important official charge by the king he went to Spain. After lengthy negotiations in the Consejo de Indias, on 31 May 1579 he succeeded in obtaining his desired post, and was awarded a large territory that was to be named Nuevo Reino de León. From South to North that territory extend from Tampico to a just below present day Dallas, Texas. A similar distance extended East to west.\n\nAmong the privileges granted to Carvajal by the king was that he could recruit, in Spain, up to 100 males, sixty of whom should be married, to be the first colonizers of his Nuevo Reino. Because of time limitations, the king ordered that the requirement that each should show proof of being an Old Christian be waived. This was not the only time the king did so, but it did result in the recruitment of several New Christians, including Carvajal's sister, Francisca de Carvajal, and her family, all of whom were later found to secretly practice Judaism and were burnt at the stake by the Spanish Inquisition in Mexico City.\nCarvajal was also instructed to civilize, pacify, and Christianize the Indians in his domain, but forbidden to enslave them, an injunction he \"never obeyed\" in the words of a Mexican essayist.\n\nIn 1579 Phillip II, King of Spain, granted him the title of governor and captain-general with the mission to \"discover, pacify and settle\" a new province in New Spain to be called \"Nuevo Reino de León\", 200 leagues inland from the port of Tampico.\n\nThe people recruited by Carvajal in Spain and Portugal were transported to the New world in a ship, an urca, owned by Carvajal and named La Urca de Panuco. The urca left Seville on 10 June 1580 and arrived in Tampico on 24 August of the same year. The following October he went to Mexico City to present his credentials to the new viceroy, the Count of Coruña.\n\nIn consideration of the appointment of governor, Carvajal undertook to colonize the territory at his own expense, being allowed to repay himself out of the revenues. His original jurisdiction was to comprise a somewhat ill-defined territory, beginning at the port of Tampico, extending along the River Pánuco, and thence turning northward; but it was not to exceed 200 leagues either way. It would seem to have included Tamaulipas, as well as the states of Nuevo León and Coahuila, and parts of San Luis Potosí, Zacatecas, Durango, Chihuahua and Texas.\n\nTowards the end of 1581, Carvajal started to settle the lesser-known parts of his territory, founding, as required by his capitulación with the king, several villages. On 10 December 1581, he founded Villa de la Cueva de León, no longer in existence, and in April 1582 he founded, as a city, Ciudad de León, now Cerralvo. About the same time he ordered his captain (and later Lieutenant) Gaspar Castaño de Sosa to found Villa de San Luis, now Monterrey, the capital of the modern Mexican state of Nuevo León. Castaño de Sosa is also known as the leader of the first attempt to establish a Spanish settlement in New Mexico. The attempt failed and Castaño de Sosa was arrested and punished by Spanish authorities for his unauthorized expedition.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, the territory granted to Carvajal by Philip II included lands that were contested by other Spaniards living in New Spain. These individuals sued Carvajal in the highest court in New Spain -The Audiencia de México. Lasting more than three years these legal suits were decided in favor of Carvajal. But the litigants did not give up. Taking advantage of a sympathetic prosecutor and of the arrival of a new viceroy, they argued that Carvajal was enslaving pacified Indians. In late 1588, Carvajal was arrested at Almadén (present day Monclova), which he had established allegedly to carry out slaving raids. Taken to Mexico City, he was imprisoned.\n\nCarvajal was said by the Spanish authorities to have a gang of \"more than sixty soldiers\" and to have made a fortune capturing and selling Indian slaves. They raided north along the Rio Grande, capturing hundreds of Indians whom they sold into slavery. But the government was attempting to find a peaceful solution to the long-running and bloody Chichimeca War. Enslavement was one of the grievances of the Indians and a peaceful solution involved protecting the Indians against slavers. All along the frontier two successive Viceroys promoting peace with the Chichimecas cracked down on the slavers.\n\nNew charges were also brought against Carvajal. This was based on the accusations that Carvajal's ancestors were New Christians, which contradicted the \"Purity of Blood\" laws required to obtain permission to settle in the New Spain. To carry it out they had Felipe Nuñez (or Nunes), a relative of Carvajal and one of his captains mention the governor`s name in the Inquisition. This was sufficient to have Carvajal transferred to the jails of the Inquisition. Although several charges against him were initially mentioned, only the charge of covering the practicing Judaism of his sister and her children remained. In the end he was sentenced to a six-year exile in an auto-da-fe held on 24 February 1590 in Mexico City. However, before the sentence was carried out, he was sent back to the jail of the Court, where he died, nearly one year later, on 13 February 1591. Throughout his time in prison, Carvajal wrote a memoir on pages measuring 4 inches by 3 inches. The memoir explores Carvajal's relationship with Judaism, describing how he was Jewish from his father, and how he later convinced his siblings to practice the Judaism. Carvajal's memoir is currently the oldest discovered Jewish document written in the New World.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4421904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4421904", "title": "Maria Komnene (Porphyrogenita)", "text": "Maria Komnene (Porphyrogenita)\n\nMaria Komnene (or Comnena) (, \"Maria Komnēnē\"; Constantinople March 1152 – July 1182) was the eldest daughter of the Emperor Manuel I Komnenos by his first wife, Irene of Sulzbach. She was known as the Porphyrogennete (Πορφυρογέννητη) or Porphyrogenita because she had been \"born in the Purple Chamber\", i.e. born in the Palace at Constantinople to the consort of a reigning Emperor.\n\nMaria was probably born in March 1152. In 1163 she was engaged to the future King Béla III of Hungary; Manuel, no longer expecting to father a legitimate son, was at that time ready to designate Béla (whom he had given the new court dignity of \"despotes\" and had renamed \"Alexios\") as his eventual successor. This engagement was broken off in 1169, soon after Manuel's son Alexios was born. Maria was then engaged to King William II of Sicily, but this engagement, too, was broken off by her father. Finally, in 1179, Maria was married to Renier of Montferrat, who was renamed \"John\" and given the title of \"Caesar\".\n\nAfter the death of the Emperor Manuel in 1180, Maria and Renier became involved in intrigues against Maria's stepmother, the Empress Maria of Antioch, who was ruling as regent for her young son, now Emperor Alexios II. A riot broke out against the empress, encouraged by Maria and Renier, but their attempt to seize power failed. Both died soon afterwards, apparently by poison, soon after the seizure of the regency by Andronikos Komnenos, a paternal first cousin of Manuel.\n\n"}
{"id": "58581955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58581955", "title": "Morphokinetics IVF", "text": "Morphokinetics IVF\n\nMorphokinetics \"(\"\"‘morpho’’\" form/shape \"and ‘kinetics’\" movement) refers to time specific morphological changes during embryo development providing dynamic information on a fertilized egg.  The detailed information eases morphological selection of embryos with high implantation potential to be used in In-Vitro Fertilisation treatment.\n\nThe traditional method for selection of embryos to be used for embryo transfer in fertility treatments such as IVF,  involves assessing the morphology of a fertilized egg at crucial time points under a microscope.\n\nThe incorporation of time lapse imaging tools in an incubator is a novel technology that allows images of embryo development to be captured frequently.\n\nThis together with softwares allows embryologists and clinicans to interpret the embryo development information captured and select embryos for transfer in IVF treatment.\n\nResearch for an algorithm to select a single embryo that would lead to the best clinical pregnancy outcome is underway.\n\nMorphology of the embryo is studied in scientific research and often marked by stages.\n\n\"For further details of the processes that occur within each stage, see Human embryogenesis.\"\n\n1.  Fertilization\n\nAfter the egg is fertilized by the sperm, a zygote (single diploid cell) is formed. At this stage, it should have two pronuclei, one of each derived from the egg and the sperm cell respectively and two tiny cells called polar bodies.\n\n2.  Cleavage\n\nThis begins when the zygote divides into two cells via mitosis. The division continues such that each cell divides into another two cells, which results in a multiplying effect.\n\n3.   Morula\n\nThe ball of cells formed after the multiple divisions is called a morula. It consists of about 16-32 cells in a ball within a translucent, elastic layer called the zona pellucida. It will then undergo compaction which is a process where the cells bind firmly together and continue to develop into a blastocyst. \n\n4.  Blastocyst\n\nBlastulation is marked by the appearance of a fluid-filled cavity (blastocoel) surrounded by a single layer of cells called the trophectoderm and the inner cell mass. The fetus is developed from the inner cell mass while the placenta is derived from the trophectoderm. \n\nMorphokinetics has the potential advantage over standard morphological evaluation as it does not use a static form of observation to evaluate a highly dynamic process.\n\nHigh resolution images obtained at frequent time points provides greater detail of the events involved in embryo development. This higher degree of detail and parameters used to assess embryo viability reduces the biased variability in embryo selection by an embryologist, allowing for a more standardised method of embryo quality evaluation and selection for implantation. This also provides a quantifiable method for analysis rather than just qualitative.\n\nClinicians are given more time to evaluate an image rather than a time pressured evaluation of an embryo which must be quickly put back into incubation; resulting in a reduced degree of human error.\n\nPotential damage to otherwise viable embryos is also reduced due to minimized fluctuation of optimal culture conditions . These factors such as pH and temperature, if altered, have been shown to influence preimplantation development of a blastocyst.\n\nBoth the mother and child may benefit from this new method of IVF treatment. Transfer of the single, highest potential embryo into the mother reduces the likelihood of multiple gestations, which limits future complications such as preterm labour.\n\nThis method reduces time spent and consequently lowering overall costs.\n\nGreater understanding and evidence for embryo morphokinetics can help improve current knowledge of embryo development and factors influencing successful clinical pregnancy outcome.\n\nAlthough morphokinetics has its advantage in terms of selecting embryos for implantation, the technology is unable to deselect all abnormal embryos.\n\nThere is also a struggle to find a universal algorithm as attempts to validate published algorithms have proved unsuccessful. More work needs to be done in the scientific community, working as a cohesive unit to define the best possible algorithm that could lead to a single successful pregnancy.\n\nThe benefits of using morphokinetics in terms of improving clinical outcomes of IVF is still very unclear. A meta-analysis published in 2017, supported the idea of clinical benefits of time-lapse culture with morphokinetic embryo selection in IVF, reporting reduced early pregnancy loss, higher ongoing pregnancy and higher live birth rates. However, the studies included in the meta analysis were carried out in selected populations and were of dubious quality, meaning we can not rely on this as conclusive evidence that IVF outcomes are improved by using morphokinetic embryo selection and time-lapse technology instead of standard morphological evaluation.\n\nApart from this, there is limited reviewed evidence to support the clinical benefits of morphokinetics and so robust prospective studies reporting clinical outcomes must be carried out before it can be concluded that morphokinetics when combined with time-lapse technology has the ability to improve clinical outcomes of IVF.\n"}
{"id": "7585866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7585866", "title": "Philip of France (1116–1131)", "text": "Philip of France (1116–1131)\n\nPhilip (29 August 1116 – 13 October 1131) was the King of France from 1129, co-ruling with his father, Louis VI. His mother was Louis VI's second wife, Adelaide of Maurienne.\n\nThe favourite son of his father as a child, Philip was enthroned alongside Louis VI as joint king in 1129. However, the young king gave his father little joy after that, refusing to pay attention to the old king or to follow the high standards that Louis himself followed. He became disobedient, refusing to heed scoldings or warnings; Walter Map said that he \"strayed from the paths of conduct travelled by his father and, by his overweening pride and tyrannical arrogance, made himself a burden to all.\"\n\nPhilip's brief period as king was ended two years after his coronation. Riding with a group of companions along the Seine, in the Parisian market section named the Greve, his running horse was tripped by a black pig which darted out of a dung heap on the quay. The horse fell forwards, and the young king was catapulted over its head. The fall \"so dreadfully fractured his limbs that he died on the day following\" without regaining consciousness. He was buried at St Denis, and was succeeded as heir, and co-king, by his pious brother, Louis the Younger (now known as Louis VII).\n\nIf Philip had been little other than trouble and a problem to his family and kingdom whilst he had lived, his legacy would prove greater trouble still. Whilst he had lived, he had nurtured a dream of visiting Jerusalem and the tomb of Christ; when he died, his brother, Louis VII, vowed to go in Philip's place. This vow would provide a reason for Louis joining the disastrous Second Crusade and an excuse to abandon Antioch in favour of Jerusalem. The Crusade brought many deaths on both sides, and the abandonment of Antioch proved a strategic failure and a partial cause for the collapse of the marriage between Louis and his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine.\n\nBecause he was co-king rather than a king in his own right, he is not generally given a number in the succession of kings of France.\n\nMeade, Marion, \"Eleanor of Aquitaine\"\n"}
{"id": "56956070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56956070", "title": "Project84", "text": "Project84\n\nProject84 was an art installation comprising life-size statues of 84 men on top of the ITV buildings at Southbank in London, England. It aimed to highlight the fact that, in the United Kingdom, an average 84 men commit suicide each week.\n\nEach of the statues represents a specific, named individual who died by suicide, and whose biographies are available on the project's website.\n\nThe installation was created by artist Mark Jenkins and his collaborator Sandra Fernandez, at the instigation of the charity 'CALM' (Campaign Against Living Miserably). It was launched on the ITV programme \"This Morning\" on 26 March 2018, and remained there for five days.\n\n"}
{"id": "47442082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47442082", "title": "Psychology of eating meat", "text": "Psychology of eating meat\n\nThe psychology of eating meat is a complex area of study illustrating the confluence of morality, emotions, cognition, and personality characteristics. Research into the psychological and cultural factors of meat eating suggests correlations with masculinity; support for hierarchical values; and reduced openness to experience. Because meat eating is widely practiced but is sometimes associated with ambivalence, it has been used as a case study in moral psychology to illustrate theories of cognitive dissonance and moral disengagement. Research into the consumer psychology of meat is relevant both to meat industry marketing and to advocates of reduced meat consumption.\n\nMeat is an important and highly preferred human food. Individuals' attitudes towards meat are of interest to consumer psychologists, to the meat industry, and to advocates of reduced meat consumption.\nThese attitudes can be affected by issues of price, health, taste, and ethics.\nThe perception of meat in relation to these issues affects meat consumption.\n\nMeat is traditionally a high-status food. It may be associated with cultural traditions and has strong positive associations in most of the world. However, it sometimes has a negative image among consumers, partly due to its associations with slaughter, death, and blood.\nHolding these associations more strongly may decrease feelings of pleasure from eating meat and increase disgust, leading to lowered meat consumption. In the West, these effects have been found to be particularly true among young women. Negative associations may only cause consumers to make meat less noticeable in their diets rather than reducing or eliminating it, for example making meat an ingredient in a more-processed dish. It has been suggested that this is the result of a disconnect between individuals' roles as consumers and as citizens.\n\nImplicit attitudes towards meat have been reported to vary significantly between omnivores and vegetarians, with omnivores holding much more positive views. Vegetarians may express either revulsion or nostalgia at the thought of eating meat.\n\nConsumer behavior towards meat may be modeled by distinguishing the effects of \"intrinsic factors\" (properties of the physical product itself, such as color) and \"extrinsic factors\" (everything else, including price and brand).\n\nTaste and texture are self-reported to be important factors in food choice, although this may not accurately reflect consumer behavior. Consumers describe meat as \"chewy\", \"tender\", and \"rich\". In the United Kingdom, meat is traditionally considered to taste good. People experience the taste and texture of meat in significantly different ways, with variations across ages, genders, and cultures. Tenderness is perhaps the most important of all factors impacting meat eating quality, with others being flavor, juiciness, and succulence.\n\nVisual appearance is one of the primary cues consumers use to assess meat quality at the point of sale, and to select meats. Color is one of the most important characteristics in this context. Different cultural traditions lead consumers to prefer different colors: some countries prefer relatively dark pork overall, some light, and some have no clear preference.\n\nVisible fat content and marbling are also important intrinsic quality cues. Consumers as a whole tend to prefer leaner beef and pork, although significant variations exist across geographical regions. Marbling is important to some consumers but not others, and, as for fat content more generally, preference for marbling varies by region.\n\nPrice is an important extrinsic factor which can affect consumer choices about meat. Price concerns may induce consumers to choose among different meats, or avoid meat altogether.\n\nHealth concerns are also relevant to consumer choices about meat. The perceived risk of food contamination can affect consumer attitudes towards meat, as after meat-related scares such as those associated with mad cow disease or bird flu. Safety-related product recalls can impact demand for meat.\nPeople may reduce or eliminate meat from their diets for perceived health benefits. Health considerations may motivate both meat-eaters and vegetarians. Meatless diets in adolescents can be a way to conceal eating disorders, although vegetarianism does not necessarily increase the risk of disordered eating.\n\nResearch suggests consumers tend to prefer meats whose origin lies in their own country over imported products, partly due to the fact that domestic meats are perceived to be of higher quality.\nThis effect may also reflect consumers' ethnocentrism or patriotism. The importance of meat's country of origin varies from country to country.\n\nBeliefs and attitudes about environmental and animal welfare concerns can affect meat consumption. Consumers in the developed world may be willing to pay slightly more for meat produced according to higher animal welfare standards, although welfare and environmental concerns are usually considered less important than attributes more directly related to meat quality, such as appearance. A 2001 study in Scotland found that, although participants cared about animal welfare in general, they considered price and appearance more important than welfare when buying meat. A study of Dutch consumers found that both rational and emotional responses to environmental and other concerns affected purchasing of organic meat.\n\nMeat consumption patterns can also be influenced by individuals' family, friends, and traditions. A study of British eating patterns found that meat was often associated with positive food traditions, such as the Sunday roast. Some consumers only purchase meat conforming with religious prescriptions, such as halal meat. These consumers' trust in quality assurance organizations, and individual relationships with meat providers, have been reported to significantly affect their purchasing behavior.\n\nRecent trends in animal husbandry, such as biotechnology, factory farming, and breeding animals for faster growth, are expected to have a continuing effect on the evolution of consumer attitudes towards meat.\n\nOne question examined in the psychology of eating meat has been termed the meat paradox: how can individuals care about animals, but also eat them? Internal dissonance can be created if people's beliefs and emotions about animal treatment do not match their eating behavior, although it may not always be subjectively perceived as a conflict. This apparent conflict associated with a near-universal dietary practice provides a useful case study for investigating the ways people may change their moral thinking to minimize discomfort associated with ethical conflicts.\n\nRecent studies in this area suggest that people can facilitate their practices of meat eating by attributing lower intelligence and capacity for suffering to meat animals, by thinking of these animals as more dissimilar to humans, by caring less about animal welfare and social inequality, and by dissociating meat products from the animals they come from.\n\nEthical conflicts arise when eating animals if they are considered to have moral status. Perceptions of animals' moral status vary greatly, but are determined in part by perceptions of animals as having conscious minds and able to experience pain, and their perceived similarity to humans. Some social psychologists hypothesize that meat eaters can reduce discomfort associated with the meat paradox by minimizing their perception of these morally relevant qualities in animals, particularly animals they regard as food, and several recent studies provide support for this hypothesis.\n\nA 2010 study randomly assigned college students to eat beef jerky or cashews, then judge the moral importance and cognitive abilities of a variety of animals. Compared with students who were given cashews, those who ate beef jerky expressed less moral concern for animals, and assigned cows a diminished ability to have mental states that entail the capacity to experience suffering.\n\nSubsequent studies similarly found that people were more inclined to feel it was appropriate to kill animals for food when they perceived the animals as having diminished mental capacities, a finding replicated in samples from the U.S., Canada, Hong Kong, and India; that, conversely, they perceived unfamiliar animals as having lesser mental capacities when told they were used as food; and, again, that eating meat caused participants to ascribe fewer mental abilities to animals over both the short and long term.\n\nA 2014 review suggested that these phenomena could be explained as a set of dissonance reduction techniques used to reduce negative emotions associated with the meat paradox, but noted that the existence of such emotions had not been demonstrated. A 2016 review drew an analogy between the meat paradox and sexual objectification, writing that both practices involve strategically changing perceptions of others when thinking of them as potential \"resources\" (i.e., for meat or sex), and citing recent studies suggesting that sexually objectifying people prompts a reduction in their perceived humanness and moral importance.\n\nSeveral proposed strategies for resolving the meat paradox dissociate meat as a food product from the animals which produce it, or psychologically distance themselves from the processes of meat production. Although concern for animal welfare has recently increased in several countries, a trend towards dissociating meat from its animal origins has tended to prevent such concerns from influencing consumer behavior.\n\nPeople in many cultures do not like to be reminded of the connection between animals and meat, and tend to \"de-animalize\" meat when necessary to reduce feelings of guilt or of disgust. Meat in Western countries is often packaged and served so as to minimize its resemblance to live animals, without eyes, faces, or tails, and the market share of such products has increased in recent decades; however, meat in many other cultures is sold with these body parts.\n\nSome authors have suggested that the use of non-animal words such as \"sirloin\" and \"hamburger\" for meat can reduce the salience of meat's origins in animals, and in turn reduce perceived consumption of animals. Similarly, farmers and hunters use terms such as \"processing\" and \"managing\" rather than \"killing\", a choice which can be interpreted as a way to provide psychological distance and facilitate animal use.\n\nThe importance of dissociation processes was supported by a 2016 Norwegian study which, in a series of experiments, directly tested the effects of making live animals more salient.\n\nIn addition to dissociation, people who experience discomfort relating to the meat paradox may simply avoid confrontation of the issue. Cultural socialization mechanisms may also discourage people from thinking of their food choices as harmful; for example, children's books and meat advertisements usually portray farm animals as leading happy lives, or even desiring to be eaten. Compartmentalizing animals in different categories (such as pets, pests, predators, and food animals) may help avoid dissonance associated with differential treatment of different species.\n\nEthical conflicts between enjoying meat and caring for animals may be made less problematic by holding positive attitudes towards meat. People who think of meat as safe, nutritious, and sustainable tend to experience less ambivalence about eating it. Religious belief in God-given dominion over animals can also justify eating meat.\n\nA series of studies published in 2015 asked meat-eating American and Australian undergraduates to \"list three reasons why you think it is OK to eat meat.\" Over 90% of participants offered reasons which the researchers classified among the \"four N's\":\nThe researchers found that these justifications were effective in reducing moral tension associated with the meat paradox.\n\nStudies in personality trait psychology have suggested that individuals' values and attitudes affect the frequency and comfort with which they eat meat.\n\nThose who value power more highly have been found in several studies to eat more meat, while those who prefer self-transcendence values tend to eat less. In particular, studies have found that the personality trait of openness to experience is negatively correlated with meat consumption, and that vegetarians and pesco-vegetarians have more open personalities.\n\nOther research has indicated that meat consumption is correlated with support for hierarchy and inequality values. Those with a social dominance orientation, who more strongly support inequality and hierarchical structures, have been found in some studies to eat more meat; it has been suggested that this is consistent with their preference for having certain groups dominate others (in this case, having humans dominate animals). In addition, research suggests people self-identifying as greater meat eaters have greater right-wing authoritarianism and social dominance orientation. Dhont & Hodson (2014) suggested that this subconsciously indicates their acceptance of cultural tradition, and their rejection of nonconformist animal rights movements.\n\nMany of these personality characteristics have been shown to relate with moral disengagement in meat consumption. In particular, individuals with higher levels of moral disengagement in meat consumption also tend to show lower levels of general empathy, experience less self-evaluative emotional reactions (i.e. guilt and shame) when considering the impact of meat consumption, endorse group-based discrimination within humans (social dominance orientation), and display power motives of dominance and support of hierarchy of humans over other species (speciesism, human supremacy beliefs). Additionally, they also tend to display higher general propensity to morally disengage, attribute less importance to moral traits in how they view themselves (moral identity), and eat meat more often.\n\nA detailed study of personality characteristics and diet in Americans characterized the self-descriptions of increased meat consumers as \"pragmatic\" and \"business- and action-oriented\", after correcting for gender differences.\n\nThe idea that \"you are what you eat\", related to superstitions about sympathetic magic and common in many cultures, may create the perception that eating meat confers animal-like personality attributes.\n\nIn recent years, a considerable amount of social psychology research has investigated the relevance of meat consumption to perceptions of masculinity.\n\nThe participants in a series of 2012 studies rated mammalian muscle such as steak and hamburgers as more \"male\" than other foods, and responded more quickly in an implicit-association test when meat words were paired with typically male names than with female names. In a different study, perceptions of masculinity among a sample of American undergraduates were positively linked to targets' beef consumption and negatively linked to vegetarianism. A 2011 Canadian study found that both omnivores and vegetarians perceived vegetarians as less masculine.\n\nCultural associations between meat and masculinity are reflected in individuals' attitudes and choices. Across Western societies, women eat significantly less meat than men on average and are more likely to be vegetarian. Women are also more likely than men to avoid meat for ethical reasons. A 2016 review found that male Germans eat more meat than females, linking the discrepancy to the finding that meat in Western culture has symbolic connections to strength and power, which are associated with male gender roles. \n\nStudies have also examined meat eating in the context of attempts to manage others' impressions of the eater, finding that men whose masculinity had been challenged chose to eat more meat pizza instead of vegetable pizza. These results indicate that it is possible for dietary choices to influence perceptions of the eater's masculinity or femininity, with meat strongly correlated with perceived masculinity. It has been suggested that meat consumption makes men feel more masculine, but it remains unclear whether this is the case and how this may be affected by social context.\n\nIn the course of human evolution, the pressures associated with obtaining meat required early hominids to cooperate in hunting, and in distributing the spoils afterwards. In a 2003 paper, psychologist Matteo Marneli proposed that these pressures created the basic principles of human moral judgements: put simply, he argued, \"meat made us moral.\"\n\nSeveral studies have found that both omnivores and vegetarians tend to consider vegetarians slightly more moral and virtuous than omnivores. Ethical principles are often cited among reasons to stop eating meat. Some evidence suggests meat-eaters may consider vegetarianism an implicit moral reproach, and respond defensively to vegetarian ideas.\n\nA 2015 study found that Belgian omnivores, semi-vegetarians (flexitarians), and vegetarians have fundamentally different moral outlooks on animal welfare concerns. However, the three groups were found to donate equally to human-focused charities.\n\nOther research has shown how moral disengagement operates in the deactivation of moral self-regulatory processes when considering the impact of meat consumption. In particular, a 2016 study offered an interpretation of moral disengagement as a motivated reasoning process which is triggered by loss aversion and dissonance avoidance.\n\nMoral perspectives can have a strong influence on meat consumption, but are not uniform across cultures. In the West, choices about meat eating are known to be associated with moral concerns about animal welfare. In contrast, the psychology of diet in non-Western cultures has been poorly studied, even though important variations exist from region to region; for example, approximately one third of Indians are vegetarian. Research has indicated that, relative to Western vegetarians, Indian vegetarians are more likely to endorse the moral values of purity, legitimate authority, and respect for ingroup and tradition.\n\nReview articles\n\nResearch articles\n\nTheses\n"}
{"id": "32451592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32451592", "title": "R.I.P.D.", "text": "R.I.P.D.\n\nR.I.P.D. is a 2013 American fantasy buddy cop action comedy film starring Jeff Bridges and Ryan Reynolds. Robert Schwentke directed the film based on a screenplay adapted from the comic book \"Rest in Peace Department\" by Peter M. Lenkov. The film also stars Kevin Bacon, Mary-Louise Parker, Stéphanie Szostak, and Marisa Miller.\n\nFilming was completed on January 28, 2012, and the film was originally set to be released on June 28, 2013 in the United States by Universal Pictures, but was pushed back to July 19, 2013. \n\nThe film was both a critical and commercial failure, grossing $78 million on a $130 million budget.\n\nBoston Police Department officers Detective Sergeant Nick Walker and Detective Lieutenant Bobby Hayes discover and steal several shards of gold while on duty. Nick buries his share under an orange tree sapling in his garden; his wife, Julia, thinks that the tree is a surprise gift and mentions how content she is with their life together. Nick realizes that they do not need the gold, and decides to submit it as evidence. During a raid later on Hayes tells Nick that he can't let him turn in the gold, Hayes then shoots and kills Nick. Time stops around Nick and he is drawn into a vortex in the sky.\n\nIn the afterlife, as penance for his thievery, Nick is recruited for the R.I.P.D. (The Rest In Peace Department). The R.I.P.D. is responsible for finding and returning souls who refuse to move on to the afterlife. Left unchecked, these souls become \"deados\", monsters disguised as humans, and when their souls begin to rot, the environment rots around them. He is partnered with Roycephus \"Roy\" Pulsipher, a former U.S. Marshal and participant in the American Civil War. Their first stop is at a cemetery to watch Nick's funeral, and Nick attempts to make his presence known to Julia but is not recognized. Roy explains that R.I.P.D. officers are given new identities and appearances to prevent them from revealing that the afterlife exists. Nick appears as an old Chinese man while Roy appears as a beautiful blonde woman. \n\nOn his first field mission, Nick aids Roy in interrogating a suspected deado and discovers the perpetrator is in possession of gold like he and Hayes had stolen. Nick and Roy submit the gold as evidence before visiting one of Roy's informants. Nick tricks the informant into revealing Hayes as his contact. They follow Hayes to Nick's old house, where he \"discovers\" Nick's stolen gold. Roy and Nick track Hayes and observe him handing the gold off to a deado whom they stop and interrogate. The deado overpowers them, taking the gold and transforming into a hulking monster that leads them on a chase through the city that attracts the attention of normal humans and causes a panic. R.I.P.D. Chief Mildred Proctor receives orders to remove Roy and Nick from the case and from active duty due to this exposure. Proctor learns from Eternal Affairs that the gold could be used to construct the Staff of Jericho, which will reverse the flow of souls from earth to the afterlife.\n\nRoy and Nick argue, and Nick leaves by himself to try again to reveal himself to Julia. Roy tails him and they argue but finally make amends and decide to work together to stop whatever Hayes is planning. They discover that Hayes is a deado and arrest him, but a confiscated item of his freezes the whole department. Hayes and a group of deados escape with the remainder of the gold and assemble the Staff of Jericho (an Obelisk of gold). Hayes takes Julia hostage and stabs her as a necessary human sacrifice to activate the staff. A battle ensues; Pulsipher destroys the Staff of Jericho, and Nick exacts his revenge on Hayes. Close to death, Julia sees Nick for who he is; and they share a tearful farewell.\n\nLater, Proctor informs Nick that Julia will live. She reinstates them both fully, though she adds 53 years to Roy's term in the R.I.P.D. due to her revealed affections for him. As a reward, Roy gives Nick a new appearance, but he is dismayed to find it is that of a Girl Scout.\n\n\nZach Galifianakis was originally cast as Roy Pulsipher, but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. Jodie Foster was originally considered for the role of Proctor, but in the end, Mary-Louise Parker was cast.\n\nThe soundtrack to \"RIPD\" was released on July 16, 2013.\n\nOn July 16, Adult Swim's YouTube channel uploaded an animated prequel short, which was produced by Titmouse, Inc. and featured the voice work of Reynolds and Bridges.\n\nThe film grossed $12.7 million in its opening weekend, quickly being labeled a box office bomb. The film ended its theatrical run with $78.3 million worldwide, including a $33.6 million domestic total and $44.7 million in foreign markets. The film is considered one of the largest box office bombs of all time.\n\n\"R.I.P.D.\" received generally negative reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 14% based on 95 reviews with an average rating of 3.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"It has its moments — most of them courtesy of Jeff Bridges' rootin' tootin' performance as an undead Wild West sheriff — but \"R.I.P.D.\" is ultimately too dim-witted and formulaic to satisfy.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 25 out of 100 based on 27 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"C+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nFilm critic Roger Moore gave the film one-and-a-half out of four stars, calling it \"the worst comic book adaptation since \"Jonah Hex\".\" Kyle Smith of the \"New York Post\" gave the film a half-star out of four, writing:For a movie that so strenuously rips off \"Ghostbusters\" and \"Men in Black\", \"R.I.P.D.\" manages to come up with fresh new ways of being absolutely terrible. The plot manages to be fully predictable and freakishly bonkers at the same time, seemingly born of the same kind of brainstorming-on-L.S.D. session that must have given us \"Howard the Duck\".\n\nAn Atlus published video game based on the film and titled \"R.I.P.D. The Game\" was released on July 16, 2013 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. The game is a co-op third-person shooter, set around a survival mode. It was developed by Old School Games and features gameplay similar to their previous game, \"God Mode\". Just like its film counterpart, \"R.I.P.D. The Game\" received mostly negative reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "43401240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43401240", "title": "Rahmat International Wildlife Museum &amp; Gallery", "text": "Rahmat International Wildlife Museum &amp; Gallery\n\nRahmat International Wildlife Museum & Gallery is a natural history museum in Medan, Indonesia. The museum displays various collections of wildlife from the smallest to the largest according to the habitat. After the development was completed in October 2007, the Museum & Gallery has an area of 2970 m² building.\n\nIts founder is a fan of sport hunting and the conservation of nature. Through the museum, he invites visitor to better understand the diversity of wildlife that exist in the world and their importance.\n\nThe founder is DR. H. Rahmat Shah, a sports fan and a professional hunting conservationist and nature lover who has traveled around various parts of the world to study directly the concept of conservation that has been adopted by many countries including USA, Canada, Russia, Germany, Turkey, France, Italy, Spain, Austria, China, Kazakhstan, Romania, Mongolia, Iran, Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, almost all of Africa and other countries in order to prevent extinction and increase wildlife populations and their habitats that remain stable throughout the period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7950358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950358", "title": "Rprop", "text": "Rprop\n\nRprop, short for resilient backpropagation, is a learning heuristic for supervised learning in feedforward artificial neural networks. This is a first-order optimization algorithm. This algorithm was created by Martin Riedmiller and Heinrich Braun in 1992.\n\nSimilarly to the Manhattan update rule, Rprop takes into account only the sign of the partial derivative over all patterns (not the magnitude), and acts independently on each \"weight\". For each weight, if there was a sign change of the partial derivative of the total error function compared to the last iteration, the update value for that weight is multiplied by a factor \"η\", where \"η\" < 1. If the last iteration produced the same sign, the update value is multiplied by a factor of \"η\", where \"η\" > 1. The update values are calculated for each weight in the above manner, and finally each weight is changed by its own update value, in the opposite direction of that weight's partial derivative, so as to minimise the total error function. \"η\" is empirically set to 1.2 and \"η\" to 0.5.\n\nNext to the cascade correlation algorithm and the Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm, Rprop is one of the fastest weight update mechanisms.\n\nRPROP is a batch update algorithm.\n\nMartin Riedmiller developed three algorithms, all named RPROP. Igel and Hüsken assigned names to them and added a new variant:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28996193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28996193", "title": "Ruth L. Ratny", "text": "Ruth L. Ratny\n\nRuth L. Ratny (c. 1927 – February 21, 2017), born Ruth Louise Ratny, worked in the Chicago film industry her entire career. As the publisher/editor of ReelChicago.com, an online industry trade publication, she chronicled the Chicago visual media industry for 30 years. She was also a screenwriter of a music biopic about the life and times of Mahalia Jackson, \"The Queen of Soul\", and about what a Mexican woman went through to illegally cross the border.\n\nPrior to ReelChicago, Ratny worked in advertising. Then, in 1979, she founded \"Screen Magazine\", which she published and edited. \"Screen\" went beyond a weekly publication, and produced several national trade shows, a score of seminars and the first annual industry networking event.\n\nHealth issues compelled Ratny to relinquish her print publication in 2002, but she returned to chronicling the film industry through her ReelChicago.com website in 2004.\n\nIn addition to Clios, Emmys, Tells, and Cine Lions, Ratny's honors include induction into Today’s Chicago Woman’s Hall of Fame; Chicago Advertising Woman of the Year, and Midwest Advertising Woman of the Year Awards, and Women in Film’s Recognition Award.\n\nRatny received recognition awards from Lawyers for the Creative Arts and the Chicago Coalition, of which she was a founding member.\n\nRatny studied marketing at DePaul University, and continued her education at Loyola University. She was active in many local film organizations, and earlier taught courses at Columbia College Chicago. She also taught selling and marketing for creative services through Screen seminars.\n\nRatny died of heart failure at age 89 on February 21, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "43432494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43432494", "title": "Sasebo schoolgirl murder", "text": "Sasebo schoolgirl murder\n\nThe referred to the murder of 15-year-old Japanese high school student by a 15-year-old female classmate on July 26, 2014. The murder took place in the suspect's apartment in Sasebo, Nagasaki Prefecture, where Matsuo was beaten with a metal tool, strangled to death, and then partially dismembered and decapitated.\n\nThe suspect (15 at the time of the crime, but turned 16 shortly after), whose name has been protected by the police, allegedly posted details and photos of the crime to the popular Japanese message board 2channel, and told police that, \"I wanted to kill someone. I bought tools by myself.\" The suspect had previously attacked her father with a metal baseball bat, prompting him and her step-mother (her biological mother died the previous year) to move her into her own apartment when she began attending high school. It is believed that she first attempted to \"dissect\" a cat and possessed several medical text books.\n\nIn response to the murder, Fuji TV cancelled the July 31, 2014, broadcast of the fourth episode of the re-edited \"Psycho-Pass\" anime, which would have also featured murder of teenage schoolgirls.\n\nThe girl's 54-year-old father apologized to Matsuo's family in July 2014 about his daughter's mental health. On October 5, 2014, he was found dead after he committed suicide by hanging.\n\nIn 2014, it was revealed that a psychiatrist who examined the girl had contacted a child consultation center in Nagasaki to reportedly warn officials that “If she is left as she is, she could kill someone.” However, this warning was not acted upon, and in 2015, three officials of the Nagasaki Prefectural child consultation center were officially reprimanded by the prefectural government, which stated that the center had \"failed to fulfill its duties\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52082614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52082614", "title": "Shoaib Aamer", "text": "Shoaib Aamer\n\nShoaib Aamer (born 3 January 1968) is a Pakistani former cricketer. He played four first-class and five List A matches for several domestic teams in Pakistan between 1991 and 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "5031339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5031339", "title": "Skateboarding duck", "text": "Skateboarding duck\n\nHerbie the skateboarding duck (c.1976-83) was the subject of an item first broadcast on the \"Midlands Today\" insert to the BBC news magazine programme \"Nationwide\" on 24 May 1978.\n\nHerbie, an Aylesbury duck, was bought by Jacky and Paddy Randall of Croydon for their children Mikala and Colin. The film, presented by reporter Alan Towers, includes footage of Herbie waddling along the street, joining the family at breakfast and attacking the Randalls' terrier. Part of the film is a four-second shot of Herbie apparently skateboarding by himself on Colin's board. This image seemingly captured the public imagination, and the BBC received many requests for it to be shown again, which it frequently was.\n\nThe clip also appeared on other TV stations around the world, many of which also produced their own variations on the theme. There was also renewed interest in the clip in 1983 after the death of Herbie was announced and it has been repeated many times since on other TV programmes.\n\nAs a result of the item's popularity, the term \"skateboarding duck\" has come to signify a particular sort of quirky and essentially frivolous news story, often used to fill time at the end of a broadcast.\n\nThe item came to define Nationwide in the public mind, and the programme's final item was a sung eulogy to the skateboarding duck, with a surprising twist.\n\n"}
{"id": "38876667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38876667", "title": "Snub pentahexagonal tiling", "text": "Snub pentahexagonal tiling\n\nIn geometry, the snub pentahexagonal tiling is a uniform tiling of the hyperbolic plane. It has Schläfli symbol of sr{6,5}.\n\nDrawn in chiral pairs, with edges missing between black triangles:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48134834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48134834", "title": "Stein Barth-Heyerdahl", "text": "Stein Barth-Heyerdahl\n\nStein Barth-Heyerdahl (12 July 1909 – 1972) was a Norwegian art painter and national socialist. A reluctant member of Nasjonal Samling (NS) briefly after its founding in 1933–34 and from 1941, he was mostly active in the National Socialist Workers' Party of Norway (NNSAP) during the 1930s. He was editor of the short-lived NNSAP-paper \"Nasjonalsocialisten\" in 1934–35. Barth-Heyerdahl lived in Berlin for extended periods during World War II, and became part of the circle around the NS-critical periodical \"Ragnarok\", which espoused pan-German and neopagan ideologies. Along with Per Imerslund, he was one of Norway's strongest proponents of racialist pagan ideas.\n\n"}
{"id": "57676625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57676625", "title": "Surviving American units with the highest percentage of casualties per conflict", "text": "Surviving American units with the highest percentage of casualties per conflict\n\nDuring warfare, circumstances dictate that some units take more casualties than other units. Sometimes the casualty rate is disproportionately high. This article displays the highest percentage of casualties of American units that weren't totally wiped out.\n\nThe term \"Casualty\" in warfare can often be confusing. It often does not refer to those that are killed on the battlefield; rather, it refers to those who can no longer fight. This can include disabled by injuries, disabled by psychological trauma, captured, deserted, or missing. A casualty is just a soldier who is no longer available for the immediate battle or campaign, the major consideration in combat; the number of casualties is simply the number of members of a unit who are not available for duty. For example, during the Seven Days Battles in the American Civil War (June 25 to July 1, 1862) there were 5,228 killed, 23,824 wounded and 7,007 missing or taken prisoner for a total of 36,059 casualties. The word \"casualty\" has been used in a military context since at least 1513. \n\nNotes\n\nReferences \n"}
{"id": "29782766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29782766", "title": "Thalaikoothal", "text": "Thalaikoothal\n\nThalaikoothal (, lit. showering) is the traditional practice of senicide (killing of the elderly) or involuntary euthanasia, by their own family members, observed in some parts of southern districts of Tamil Nadu state of India.\n\nTypically, the elderly person is given an extensive oil-bath early in the morning and subsequently made to drink glasses of tender coconut water which results in renal failure, high fever, fits, and death within a day or two. This technique may also involve a head massage with cold water, which may lower body temperature sufficiently to cause heart failure. Alternative methods involve force feeding cow's milk while plugging the nose, causing breathing difficulties (the \"milk therapy\") or use of poisons.\n\nAlthough thalaikoothal is illegal in India, the practice has long received covert social acceptance as a form of mercy killing, and people seldom complain to the police. In some case the family informs their relatives before performing thalaikoothal, and the victims sometimes even request it. However, social acceptance may lead to more egregious abuses: the issue gained a higher profile in early 2010, when an 80-year-old man escaped when he came to know of his fate and heard his family members discussing how they were going to \"share\" his lands, and took refuge in a relative's home. \n\nInvestigation revealed the practice to be \"fairly widespread \"in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Dozens or perhaps hundreds of cases occur each year.\n\nIn 2010, after an exposé in Virudhunagar district the administration set up teams of officers to monitor the senior citizens.\n\nMother, shall I put you to sleep?\n\n"}
{"id": "301718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301718", "title": "Uprising of 1953 in East Germany", "text": "Uprising of 1953 in East Germany\n\nThe Uprising of 1953 in East Germany started with a strike by East Berlin construction workers on 16 June 1953. It turned into a widespread uprising against the German Democratic Republic government the next day. In Germany, the revolt is often called People's Uprising in East Germany (\"Volksaufstand in der DDR\"). It involved more than one million people in about 700 localities. 17 June was a public holiday in West Germany up until reunification, and is still a \"Gedenktag\". Strikes and working class networks, particularly relating to the old Social Democratic Party of Germany, anti-fascist resistance networks and trade unions played a key role in the unfolding of the uprising. In Soviet history up to the fall of the Soviet Union the uprising was poorly highlighted.\n\nThe uprising in East Berlin was violently suppressed by tanks of the Group of Soviet Forces in Germany and the \"Volkspolizei\". In spite of the intervention of Soviet troops, the wave of strikes and protests was not easily brought under control. After June 17, there were demonstrations in more than 500 towns and villages.\n\nIn July 1952, the second party conference of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED) took place in East Berlin. In SED General Secretary Walter Ulbricht's words, there was to be the \"systematic implementation of Socialism\" (\"planmäßiger Aufbau des Sozialismus\"); it was decided that the process of Sovietization should be intensified and the importance of the state expanded. The party was acting on decrees made by Soviet premier Joseph Stalin.\n\nThis meant for example the division of the five \"Länder\" into 14 regions (\"Bezirke\") plus East Berlin. This division was viewed poorly by the remaining middle stratum of the GDR: farmers who owned land and small business owners/tradesmen were being forced to give up their independence through raised charges.\n\nThis decision was made amid the background of the catastrophic economic situation in the country. In the course of the militarisation pushed by Soviet authorities, direct and indirect military expenditures rose and already made up around 11% of the national budget in 1952. Together with reparation payments, this totaled over 20% of the budget. The economic policies of the SED favored the development of heavy industry at the expense of the production of food and consumer goods, all of which resulted in a severe crisis in supplying the public with goods. Electricity was turned off in factories and public buildings at the onset of darkness every evening (during peak period).\n\nThe dramatic increase of emigration (Republikflucht, brain drain) in the first half of 1953, already high since the establishment of the GDR, constituted a serious economic and social problem. Another factor that contributed to an already complicated political situation was the high number of political prisoners in the GDR. Suppression of the illegal organisation \"Junge Gemeinde\" (\"Young Congregation\"), wrongly perceived as the central youth organisation of the Evangelical Church, played a role here. Numerous trainee pastors were brutally beaten and imprisoned (e.g. Johannes Hamel and Fritz Hoffmann). Ecclesiastic recreation centres were closed and taken over by the FDJ (e.g.: Schloss Mansfeld and Huberhaus Wernigerode). High school students who belonged to a church were often brutally beaten and expelled by the school authorities, sometimes even shortly before school graduation.\n\nWithin this complicated background, the decision to raise the work norms (in short the principle 'more work for the same salary') was perceived as a provocation, which would conceivably lead to the deterioration of living standards. The Central Committee decided to address the economic difficulties with a package of changes, which included higher taxes and higher prices, and—most significantly—an increase of the work quotas by 10%.\n\nThese changes were coming into force by 30 June 1953, Ulbricht's 60th birthday. Issued as a suggestion, it became in effect a direction that was introduced in all the state-owned enterprises (so-called \"volkseigene Betriebe\") and if the new quotas were not met then workers would have to face a reduction of salaries. The decision was taken on 13–14 May 1953, and the Council of Ministers approved it on 28 May.\n\nFollowing Stalin's death on March 5, 1953 and the massive increase in emigration, the new Soviet government decided to ease the policies Stalin had demanded. On 4 June 1953, the Soviet government, alarmed at reports of unrest, summoned East German leaders to Moscow. Georgy Malenkov warned them that if policy direction were not corrected immediately, there would be a catastrophe. After intense discussion the East German party eased policies and publicly admitted that mistakes had been made. However, according to the historian of East Germany, Manfred Wilke, that admission may have had the unintended effect of inflaming public opinion rather than easing tensions.\n\nOn the morning of 16 June, 300 East Berlin construction workers went on strike and marched down Stalinallee, now Karl-Marx-Allee, towards government buildings after their superiors announced a pay cut if they did not meet their work quota. Things started with a discussion by shop stewards as regards how to respond to recent increase in their work quotas. However, this soon turned into a mass demonstration, which gathered more workers from construction sites as they marched first to the headquarters of the Free German Trade Union Federation. However, dissatisfied with the response there, the protest swelled to over ten thousand as they marched to Detlev-Rohwedder-Haus, the home of the House of Ministries in Leipziger Strasse. They bore banners with such slogans as \"We demand a quota reduction!\" However soon more political demands were developed such as \"Workers join us!\" \"Unity is Strength!\" \"We want free elections!\" and \"We want to be free, not slaves.\" They then demanded that Walter Ulbricht come out to speak to them. When a minor official informed the crowd that their original demand about quotas had been met, this failed to satisfy the protestors who started developing other demands until a young engineer made the suggestion that they put out a call for general strike the next day. These events were reported by the West Berlin-based Radio in the American Sector which helped spread news of the intended strike: “The uprising actually began on June 16, 1953, when construction workers in East Berlin marched down what was then Stalinallee to the seat of the Communist government, demanding that it rescind an increase in work hours and calling for a general strike the next day.” RIAS, however, was initially controlled by the U.S. Information Control Division, with the ICD itself as a department of the Office of Military Government, United States (OMGUS). Formed on May 12th, 1945 from the Psychological Warfare Division of SHAEF (PWD/SHAEF), the ICD was led by Robert A. McClure. The PWD itself had its roots in U.S./U.K. intelligence organizations using staff of the US Office of War Information (OWI) and Office of Strategic Services (OSS) and the British Political Warfare Executive (PWE). \nAlso independent networks which had been formed within the old Social Democratic Party of Germany, which had been forcibly merged into the SED, the trade unions and the Union of Persecutees of the Nazi Regime – which had recently been dissolved by the authorities - were an element in this self-organisation.\n\nEarly on 17 June 40,000 protesters had gathered in East Berlin, with more arriving throughout the morning. Many protests were held throughout East Germany with at least some work stoppages and protests in virtually all industrial centers and large cities in the country. Joint strike committees were established in Hennigsdorf, Görlitz, Cottbus, and Gera.\n\nThe original demands of the protesters, such as the reinstatement of the previous lower work quotas, turned into political demands. SED functionaries took to the streets and began arguing with small groups of protesters. Eventually, the workers demanded the resignation of the East German government. The government decided to violently suppress the uprising and turned to the Soviet Union for military support. In total, around 16 Soviet divisions with 20,000 soldiers as well as 8,000 \"Kasernierte Volkspolizei\" members were used to quell the uprising.\n\nIn East Berlin, major clashes occurred along Unter den Linden (between the Brandenburger Tor and Marx-Engels-Platz), where Soviet troops and Volkspolizei opened fire, and around Potsdamer Platz, where several people were killed by the Volkspolizei. It is still unclear how many people died during the uprising or were sentenced to death in the aftermath. The number of known victims is 55; other estimates put the number of victims at least 125.\n\nEarlier West German estimates of the number of people killed were considerably higher: according to the West German Ministry for Inter-German affairs in 1966, 513 people (including 116 \"functionaries of the SED regime\") were killed in the uprising, 106 people were executed under martial law or later condemned to death, 1,838 were injured, and 5,100 were arrested (1,200 of these were later sentenced to an average of 5 years in penal camps). It also was alleged that 17 or 18 Soviet soldiers were executed for refusing to shoot demonstrating workers, but these reports remain unconfirmed by post-1990 research.\n\nOn 18 June 1953, \"Neues Deutschland\", the official party publication of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED) and the daily national newspaper, published an article on its front page titled \"Was ist in Berlin geschehen? (What occurred in Berlin?)\" that explained the strike and subsequent uprising to be a direct result of the attempts by \"western agencies\" to disrupt the national stability and legitimacy of the SED.\n\nOther archived editions of \"Neues Deutschland\" document similar comments made by party officials that condemned the influence of American popular culture on German youth. The prominence of American films and music in both East and West Berlin influenced the rise of a subculture of youth commonly known as Halbstarke (lit. half-strengths). American films of the era like \"The Wild One\" and \"Rebel Without a Cause\", featuring movie stars Marlon Brando and James Dean, respectively, were viewed by the GDR with romanticizing public disobedience and rebellion, as well as encouraging violent crime. Continued occurrences of crime and uprisings by German youths would eventually lead to the decision by SED party officials to begin construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961.\n\nIn memory of the 1953 East German rebellion, West Germany established 17 June as a national holiday, called \"Day of German Unity\". Upon German reunification in October 1990, it was moved to 3 October, the date of formal reunification. The extension of the boulevard \"Unter den Linden\" to the west of the Brandenburg Gate, called \"Charlottenburger Chaussee\", was renamed Straße des 17. Juni (English: \"17 June Street\") following the 1953 rebellion. The event is commemorated in the following poem by Bertolt Brecht:\n\nOther prominent GDR authors who dealt with the uprising include Stefan Heym (\"Fünf Tage im Juni\" / \"Five Days in June\", Munich 1974) and Heiner Müller (\"Wolokolamsker Chaussee III: Das Duell\" / \"Volokolamsk Highway III: The Duel\", 1985/86).\n\nWest German group Alphaville mention the date explicitly as \"the seventeenth of June\" but without reference to the year in their 1984 song \"Summer in Berlin,\" from the album \"Forever Young\". When the compilation album \"Alphaville Amiga Compilation\" was assembled for release in East Germany in 1988, the song \"Summer in Berlin\" was submitted for inclusion, but rejected \"for political reasons.\"\n\nThe Günter Grass play \"\" (\"The Plebeians Rehearse the Uprising\") (1966) depicts Brecht preparing a production of Shakespeare's \"Coriolanus\" against the background of the events of 1953.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30702076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30702076", "title": "Violence begets violence", "text": "Violence begets violence\n\nThe phrase \"violence begets violence\" (or \"hate begets hate\") means that violent behavior promotes other violent behavior, in return. The phrase has been used since at least the 1830s.\n\nViolence begets violence is a concept described in the Gospel of Matthew, verse 26:52. The passage depicts a disciple (identified in the Gospel of John as Saint Peter) drawing a sword to defend against the arrest of Jesus but being told to sheath his weapon:\n\n\"Put your sword back in its place,\" Jesus said to him, \"for all who draw the sword will die by the sword.\"\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. (1929–1968) used the phrase when saying:\n\n"}
{"id": "31376334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31376334", "title": "Walter de Thornbury", "text": "Walter de Thornbury\n\nWalter de Thornbury (died 1313) was an English-born statesman and cleric in 14th century Ireland who held the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland. His efforts to secure confirmation of his election as Archbishop of Dublin were cut short by his death in a shipwreck.\n\nWalter de Thornbury was born in Herefordshire, where he was later granted the manor of Wolferlow by the Mortimer family, with whom he was always closely associated. He was an executor of the will of Edmund Mortimer, 2nd Baron Mortimer, and was appointed guardian to his son Roger Mortimer, 1st Earl of March. Given Roger's later role as the usurper, and probably the killer of King Edward II, it is ironic that Walter owed his rise largely to his friendship with the King's favourite Piers Gaveston, who was Roger's co-guardian. He was much at King Edward's Court in the years 1305-6.\n\nHe was sent to Ireland as Chancellor of the Exchequer of Ireland in 1308 and became Lord Chancellor of Ireland the following year, on Piers Gaveston's recommendation. He was deputy Treasurer of Ireland in 1311, and Treasurer and Chanter of St. Patrick's Cathedral. He accompanied Gaveston on his successful campaign to restore the Crown's authority in Leinster in 1309, in which he defeated the O'Byrne clan of County Wicklow and restored order in the neighbourhood of Glendalough. The downfall and execution of his patron Piers Gaveston in June 1312 does not seem to have injured Thornbury's career.\n\nIn 1313 he was one of two candidates for the Archbishopric of Dublin, the other being Alexander de Bicknor. Thornbury, quicker off the mark than his rival, set out for Avignon to secure Papal confirmation of his election. The ship sank in a storm with the loss of all lives on board : the dead were reported to have numbered more than 150.\n\n"}
{"id": "57936294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57936294", "title": "Wermund Bendtsen", "text": "Wermund Bendtsen\n\nWermund Bendtsen (1917–2003) was a Danish professional photographer, filmmaker and photojournalist active in Odense from the 1940s to the 1980s.\n\nDocumentation of Bendtsen’s early biography and career is scant. He was the second child, born October 28, 1917, of Dagmar Cecillie Bendtsen (born Larsen, 1881) and Steffen Anton Bendtsen, pastry chef (born December 7, 1883, in Allesø, Denmark), who married in 1913 had 5 children including Edvin, Wermund and 3 others.\n\nAn ink drawing from 1941 depicting an alchemist, signed by Bendtsen, indicates his artistic talent that he was applying already to a career in photography. The site arkivdk provides online access to 500 Danish national archives including the Odense City Museum, and the photographs by, and of, him held there sketch out the course of his life. The earliest are in an album of 6 very competent black and white prints by him recording the damage to buildings from British bombing in Vestergade 41 and Bülowsvej streets in Odense in 1941 during German occupation in WWII, when it was then a town of over 100,000. Imagery from 1948 records his peacetime activities as a scout master. A 1950 newspaper portrait of him shows him as an affable man in his mid-thirties dressed in a white darkroom smock coat.\n\nIn March 1953 Bendtsen was the cinematographer for the Odense film company Orion Film when it visited The Funen Village, Sejerskovvej, Odense, Denmark to make a documentary about the heritage village, an open-air museum preserved as it was in the time of Hans Christian Andersen. The director and producer were Tage Larsen and Svend Larsen and they were advised by the Funen village architect Eigil Hansen. Bendtsen was director of photography for Orion Film’s half-hour documentary \"Fra ø til ø i Kattegat\" (From Island To Island In The Kattegat) of 1955, with screenplay by Christian Seeberg.\n\nThough Odense art gallery was hiring Bendtsen as early as 1953 for documentation of their artworks, in the 1950s regard in Denmark for photography as an independent art form was ambivalent. Edward Steichen’s exhibition \"The Family of Man” (the Danish title translates as ’We People’) challenged this attitude when it was installed at the Charlottenborg in Copenhagen in 1957. There, on its world tour from the Museum of Modern Art in New York, it had 60,000 visitors in just a few months, and the exhibition became an influential success. It included several Swedish photographers: Caroline Hebbe and her husband Hans Hammarskiöld, Lennart Nilsson, Hans Malmberg, Karl W. Gullers, Pål Nils Nilsson and Karl Sandels, but only one from Denmark; Wermund Bendtsen, while none were included from the other Nordic countries. Bendtsen's low-angle shot that Steichen selected shows a shirtless construction worker mopping his brow, and the same image, more tightly cropped, appears on the 1979 vinyl LP cover for \"Vi Længes Sikkert Mod Noget Andet\" ('We are longing for something else') by Bertolt Brecht, Lars Forsell, Harald Herdal, Rudolf Nilsen.\n\nBendtsen was conducting popular photo-tours of Funen Village in the mid-50s, and in 1957, as an indication of his standing, was able to successfully release a book that promoted art photography, entitled, in English translation, 'Photo Inspiration and Image Composition’, to which he added several picture books published after 1960 on Scandinavian landscape and travel and on museum collections. He undertook research on the lineage of Hans Christian Andersen for Danmarks Grafiske Museum.\n\nIn February 1964 Bendtsen moved into a new studio near the town centre at 10 Adel Street (Adelgade 10, running through to Overgade 19), once a charity-run infants' school that surrounds a large courtyard. The \"Funen Stiftstidendes\" (the 'Funen Herald-Tribune') newspaper photographed him at the launch of the new premises accompanied by theatre photographer Gunnar Graham (1915–2004) and, as an indication of Bendtsen’s clientele of the period, they are joined by author, historian and Odense Museum Director Niels Oxenvad (1928–2014), Apollo Theatre director Tage Larsen (who was also founder of Orion Films in 1947) and Ethel Johansen, director of Ethel Johansen Advertising in nearby Nørregade.\n\nIn the 1960s Bendtsen’s studio was producing a broad range of imagery including advertising photographs for Danish companies, including Star refrigerators in Marslev, and Wittenborg Machine Factory, manufacturer of automats. For the Odense City council he produced architectural photography of interiors of newly constructed municipal offices, records of land reclamation and town and street scenes for publicity. Other clients were the tourist organisation, the art gallery and theatre, and his pictures also appeared in the newspapers of the region.\n\nBendtsen was still photographing into his seventies, until 1997 when he passed his business on to colleagues, whereupon Wermund Bendtsen Photography ApS was founded on Thursday, 11 December 1997 at Stenhuggervej 18 5230 Odense M, moving 3 years later to Østerbro 18, Odense, but ceasing its activity seven years later on February 1, 2005 during an industry-wide shift to digital imaging. During this latter period his name appears in credits for specialist reprography of artworks in significant art publications for museums including the Johannes Larsen Museet. He died in 2003.\n\n\nWermund Bendtsen's work is in the collections of:\n\n"}
