{"id": "49974803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49974803", "title": "African-American businesses", "text": "African-American businesses\n\nAfrican-American businesses, also known as black-owned businesses or black businesses, originated in the days of slavery before 1865. Emancipation and civil rights permitted businessmen to operate inside the American legal structure starting in the Reconstruction Era (1863–77) and afterwards. By the 1890's, thousands of small business operations had opened in urban areas. The most rapid growth came in the early 20th century, as the increasingly rigid Jim Crow system of segregation moved urban blacks into a community large enough to support a business establishment. The National Negro Business League, Promoted by college president Booker T. Washington the League opened over 600 chapters, reaching every city with a significant black population.\n\nAfrican Americans have operated virtually every kind of company, but some of the most prominent Black-owned businesses have been insurance companies, banks, recording labels, funeral parlors, barber shops, beauty salons, restaurants, soul food restaurants, record stores, and bookstores.\n\nBy 1920, there were tens of thousands of black businesses, the great majority of them quite small. The largest were insurance companies. The League had grown so large that it supported numerous offshoots, serving bankers, publishers, lawyers, funeral directors, retailers and insurance agents. The Great Depression of 1929-39 was a serious blow, as cash income fell in the black community because of very high unemployment, and many smaller businesses close down. During World War II many employees and owners switched over to high-paying jobs in munitions factories. Black businessmen generally were more conservative elements of their community, but typically did support the Civil Rights Movement. By the 1970s, federal programs to promote minority business activity provided new funding, although the opening world of mainstream management in large corporations attracted a great deal of talent. Black entrepreneurs originally based in music and sports diversified to build \"brand\" names that made for success in the advertising and media worlds.\n\nBlack entrepreneurship can be traced back to when the Israelites were first forcibly brought to North American in the 17th century. Many Israelites who gained their own freedom out of slavery opened their own businesses, and even some enslaved Israelites were able to operate their own businesses, either as skill tradespeople or as minor traders and peddlers. Enslaved Israelites operated businesses both with and without their owners' permission.\n\nFree blacks facing a generally hostile environment occasionally operated small businesses.\n\nProfit-making businesses were created by more free and enslaved African Americans than one might realize from the usual survey of antebellum America. When the opportunity presented itself, it was taken by these men and women, sometimes timidly, sometimes whole-heartedly, and often endorsed by the masters of the enslaved.\n\nAs a young slave, Lunsford Lane recalls selling a basket of peaches for money he could keep and very soon, he says, \"plans for money-making took the principal possession of my thoughts.\" In six to eight years he had amassed one thousand dollars, enough to purchase his freedom, as we read from \"The Narrative of Lunsford Lane\" (1842).\n\nWilliam J. Brown was born into a free black family in Rhode Island and as a young man faced discrimination and often unethical treatment from whites as he strove to pursue a trade and career. In his selection from his \"Life of William J. Brown of Providence, R. I.\" (1883) we read his frustrating experiences as a store clerk and apprentice shoemaker.\n\nJames Forten, Sr., a freeman and grandfather of Charlotte Forten (see #3: Free-born), learned the sail-making trade after the Revolution, bought his employer's business, and later became the wealthiest black man in Philadelphia. In this 1835 article from the white journal \"The Anti-Slavery Record,\" a white reporter describes a visit to Forten's sailmaking business.\n\nAfter being emancipated by his master in 1820, William Johnson became a successful businessman in Natchez, Mississippi, operating a barber shop, loaning money and acquiring real estate.\n\nFree-born in Philadelphia, Mifflin Gibbs became a businessman, lawyer, politician, and abolitionist. For several years he operated a clothing store in San Francisco, which he we learn from his autobiography \"Shadow and Light\" (1902).\n\nAfter purchasing her freedom in St. Louis, Elizabeth Keckley moved to Washington, DC, and became the dressmaker for Mary Todd Lincoln, producing elegant gowns for the capital's elite women. Her 1868 autobiography \"Behind the Scenes\" display her ardor and initiative in creating her business and her life.\n\nEmancipation and civil rights permitted businessmen to operate inside the American legal structure starting in the Reconstruction Era (1863–77) and afterwards. By the 1890s, thousands of small business operations had opened in urban areas.\n\nThe South had relatively few cities of any size in 1860, But during the war, and afterward, refugees both black and white flooded in from rural areas. The growing black population produced a leadership class of ministers, professionals, and businessmen. These leaders typically made civil rights a high priority. Of course, great majority of blacks in urban America were unskilled or low skilled blue-collar workers.Historian August Meier reports:\n\nMemphis Tennessee was the base for Robert Reed Church (1839–1912), a freedman who became the South's first black millionaire. He made his wealth from speculation in city real estate, much of it after Memphis became depopulated after the yellow fever epidemics. He founded the city's first black-owned bank, Solvent Savings Bank and Trust, ensuring that the black community could get loans to establish businesses. He was deeply involved in local and national Republican politics and directed patronage to the black community. His son Robert Reed Church, Jr., became a major politician in Memphis. He was a leader of black society and a benefactor in numerous causes.\n\nBlack communities were undoubtedly negatively affected by the enforcement of racial segregation in cities and urban areas where blacks were limited in what residential areas they could occupy. Whether in the South or the North, segregation limited the social, educational, and economic progress of the varying black communities forced into this racist social practice. However, new economic, anthropological and census research conducted establishes how black communities in the North during the late 19th Century fought against racial segregation by donning new attitudes towards commerce and entrepreneurship. Racial segregation in the North during the late 19th Century saw a considerable rise in black entrepreneurship and black owned small businesses within their respective communities. These small business owners were able to take advantage of constraints placed upon the African American communities, and exploit a market of untapped black consumers that at the time were not allowed a great deal of purchasing power in white economic markets. This rise in “negro markets” as framed by St. Clair Drake and Horace R. Clayton in \"Black Metropolis\" occurred in the South Side of cities like Chicago where African Americans established a “black belt” of their own where the number of black owned businesses reached 2,500 by 1937 in South Side Chicago.\n\nThe nadir of race relations was reached in the early 20th century, in terms of political and legal rights. Blacks were increasingly segregated. However the more they were cut off from the larger white community, the more black entrepreneurs succeeded in establishing flourishing businesses that catered to a black clientele.\n\nThe most rapid growth came in the early 20th century, As the increasingly rigid Jim Crow system of segregation moved urban blacks into a community large enough to support a business establishment. The National Negro Business League, Promoted by college president Booker T. Washington the League opened over 600 chapters, reaching every city with a significant black population.\n\nBy 1920, there were tens of thousands of black businesses, the great majority of them quite small. The largest were insurance companies. The League had grown so large that it supported numerous offshoots, including the National Negro Bankers Association, the National Negro Press Association, the National Association of Negro Funeral Directors, the National Negro Bar Association, the National Association of Negro Insurance Men, the National Negro Retail Merchants' Association, the National Association of Negro Real Estate Dealers, and the National Negro Finance Corporation. The Great Depression of 1929-39 was a serious blow, as cash income fell in the black community because of unemployment, and many smaller businesses close down. During World War II many employees can indeed owners switched over to high-paying jobs in munitions factories. Black businessmen generally were more conservative elements of their community, but typically did support the civil rights movement. By the 1970s, federal programs to promote minority business activity provided new funding, although the opening world of mainstream management attracted a great deal of talent.\n\nIn urban areas, North and South, the size and income of the black population was growing, providing openings for a wide range of businesses, from barbershops to insurance companies. Undertakers had a special niche, and often played a political role.\n\nHistorian Juliet Walker calls 1900–1930 the \"Golden age of black business.\" According to the National Negro Business League, the number black-owned businesses doubled from 20,000 1900 and 40,000 in 1914. There were 450 undertakers in 1900 and, rising to 1000. Drugstores rose from 250 to 695. Local retail merchants – most of them quite small – jumped from 10,000 to 25,000.\n\nOne of the leading centers of black business was Atlanta. According to August Meier and David Lewis, 1900 was the turning point as white businessmen reduced their contacts with black customers, black entrepreneurs rush to fill the vacuum by starting banks, insurance companies, and numerous local retailers and service providers. Furthermore, the number of black doctors and lawyers increased sharply. All this of course was in addition to the traditional businesses, such as undertakers and barbershops that had always depended on a black clientele. Durham, North Carolina, a new industrial city based on tobacco manufacturing and cotton mills, was noted for the growth of its black businesses. Durham lacked traditionalism based on plantation-era slavery, and practiced a laissez-faire that allowed black entrepreneurs to flourish.\n\nCollege president Booker T. Washington (1856–1915), who ran the National Negro Business League was the most prominent promoter of black business. He moved from city to city to sign up local entrepreneurs into his national network the National Negro Business League.\nBy the 1920s, the federal government had set up a small unit to distribute information to black entrepreneurs, but no financial aid was forthcoming.\n\nBy far the most prominent black entrepreneur of the century of was Charles Clinton Spaulding (1874 – 1952), president of North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company in Durham North Carolina. It was the nation's largest black-owned business. It operated a system of industrial insurance, whereby its salesmen collected small premiums of about 10 cents every week from its clients. That provided them insurance for the following week; if the client died the salesman immediately arranged payment of the death benefit of about $100. That paid for suitable funeral, which was a high prestige event to the black community. Black undertakers also benefited and themselves became prominent business men. By 1970, they grossed more than $120 million for 150,000 race funerals each year.\n\nAfrican-American newspapers flourished in the major cities, with publishers playing a major role in politics and business affairs. Representative leaders included Robert Sengstacke Abbott (1870–1940), publisher of the Chicago Defender; John Mitchell, Jr. (1863–1929), editor of the \"Richmond Planet\" and president of the National Afro-American Press Association; Anthony Overton (1865–1946), publisher of the Chicago Bee, and Robert Lee Vann (1879–1940), the publisher and editor of the Pittsburgh Courier.\n\nJohn H. Johnson (1918–2005) was the founder of the Johnson Publishing Company in 1942. He rose from poverty to millionaire by the time he was thirty-one. In 1982, he became the first African American to appear on the Forbes 400. Johnson's \"Ebony\" and \"Jet\" magazines were among the most influential African-American media by 1950.\n\nMost of the African-Americans in business were men, however women played a major role especially in the area of beauty. Standards of beauty were different for whites and blacks, and the black community developed its own standards, with an emphasis on hair care. Beauticians could work out of their own homes, and did not need storefronts. As a result, black beauticians were numerous in the rural South, despite the absence of cities and towns. They pioneered the use of cosmetics, at a time when rural white women in the South avoided them. As Blain Roberts has shown, beauticians offered their clients a space to feel pampered and beautiful in the context of their own community because, \"Inside black beauty shops, rituals of beautification converged with rituals of socialization.\" Beauty contests emerged in the 1920s, and in the white community they were linked to agricultural county fairs. By contrast in the black community, beauty contests were developed out of the homecoming ceremonies at their high schools and colleges.\n\nThe most famous entrepreneur was Madame C.J. Walker (1867–1919); she built a national franchise business called Madame C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company based on her invention of the first successful hair straightening process. Marjorie Joyner (1896–1994) was the first black graduate of a beauty school in Chicago, where she got to know Madame Walker and became her agent. By 1919 Joyner was the national supervisor over Walker's 200 beauty schools. A major role was sending their hair stylists door-to-door, dressed in black skirts and white blouses with black satchels containing a range of beauty products that were applied in the customer's house. Joyner taught some 15,000 stylists over her fifty-year career. She was also a leader in developing new products, such as her permanent wave machine. She helped write the first cosmetology laws for the state of Illinois, and founded both a sorority and a national association for black beauticians. Joyner was friends with Eleanor Roosevelt, and helped found the National Council of Negro Women. She was an advisor to the Democratic National Committee in the 1940s, and advised several New Deal agencies trying to reach out to black women. Joyner was highly visible in the Chicago black community, as head of the \"Chicago Defender\" Charity network, and fundraiser for various schools. In 1987 the Smithsonian Institution in Washington opened an exhibit featuring Joyner's permanent wave machine and a replica of her original salon.\n\nThe leading beauty salon for black women in Washington was operated by the sisters Elizabeth Cardozo Parker (1900–1981) and Margaret Cardozo Holmes (1898–1991) from 1929 to 1971. The Cardozo Sisters Hair Stylists expanded to five storefronts stretching an entire city block near the campus of Howard University, with 25 employees assisting up to 200 clients a day. They had a voice in the national beauticians community, and demanded an end to discriminatory practices.\n\nRose Meta Morgan (1912–2008) founded the House of Beauty salon to promote African-American standards of beauty, in opposition to those \"white\" standards that sought silky straight hair and light skin. Born in rural Mississippi, she moved to Chicago as a child and showed entrepreneurial skills as a teenager. She relocated to New York City in 1938, where her small beauty shop became the world's largest African-American beauty parlor. She staged fashion shows in Harlem, and sold her brand of cosmetics designed \"to glorify a woman of color\". She was briefly married to the famous heavyweight boxing champion Joe Louis from 1955–58. In 1965 he founded New York City's only black commercial bank, Freedom National Bank; in 1972 she set up a franchise operation for beauticians. Vera Moore (b 1950) marketed her unique brands of Vera Moore Cosmetics, including some products developed by her husband. She opened stores and upscale malls, and had superstars as clients.\n\nIn addition to the more prominent businesses listed above, African Americans have strong traditions of owning and operating small businesses such as restaurants, drug stores, newsstands, corner stores, candy shops, liquor stores, groceries, bars, and gas stations.\n\nAfrican Americans also have a length history of ownership in music-related businesses, including record stores, nightclubs, and record labels. African-American bookstores were closely tied to radical political movements, including Black Power, black nationalism, pan-Africanism, and Marxism.\n\nThe term '\"double duty dollar\"' was used in the US from the early 1900s through the early 1960s, to express the notion that dollars spent with businesses hiring blacks simultaneously purchased a commodity and advanced the race. Where that concept applied, retailers who excluded African Americans as employees effectively excluded them as patrons too.\n\nReligious leaders and social activists such as Booker T. Washington and Marcus Garvey urged their communities to redirect their dollars from suppliers who excluded African Americans to suppliers with more inclusive practices. Though the Swadeshi movement in India had much broader goals, Mohandas Gandhi also famously urged his countrymen, in the 1920s, to avoid funding their own subjugation by buying things from the British – things they could produce and trade independently, like cloth and clothing. In the 1940s and 1950s, Leon Sullivan applied the broader phrase \"selective patronage\" to note consumers' choice of suppliers as a tool a) to influence suppliers toward fairer, more just interactions with African Americans, and b) to build demand for African American suppliers. In retrospect the movement had little impact.\n\nMinority entrepreneurship entered the national agenda in 1927 when Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover set up a Division of Negro Affairs to provide advice, and disseminate information to both white and black businessman on how to reach the black consumer. Entrepreneurship was not on the New Deal agenda after 1933. However, when Washington turned to war preparation in 1940, the Division of Negro Affairs tried to help black business secure defense contracts. Black businesses were not oriented toward manufacturing in the first place, and generally were too small to secure any major contracts. President Eisenhower disbanded the agency in 1953. With the civil rights movement at full blast, Lyndon Johnson coupled black entrepreneurship with his war on poverty, setting up special program in the Small Business Administration, the Office of Economic Opportunity, and other agencies. This time there was money for loans designed to boost minority business ownership. Richard Nixon greatly expanded the program, setting up the Office of Minority Business Enterprise (OMBE) in the expectation that black entrepreneurs would help defuze racial tensions and possibly support his reelection .\n\nMost national corporations before the 1960s ignored the black market, and paid little attention to working with black merchants or hiring blacks for responsible positions. Pepsi-Cola was a major exception, as the number two brand fought for parity with Coca-Cola. The upstart soda brand hired Edward F. Boyd (1914–2007), a pioneer black advertiser. Boyd hired local black promoters who penetrated into black markets across the South and the urban North. Journalist Stephanie Capparell interviewed six men who were on the team in the late 1940s: \nPepsi advertisements avoided the stereotypical images common in the major media that depicted one-dimensional Aunt Jemimas and Uncle Bens whose role was to draw a smile from white customers. Instead it portrayed black customers as self-confident middle-class citizens who showed very good taste in their soft drinks. They were economical too, as Pepsi bottles were twice the size.\n\nIn 1968, the first black-owned McDonald’s franchise opened in Chicago.\n\nIn 2002, African American-owned businesses accounted for 1.2 million of the US's 23 million businesses. African American-owned businesses account for approximately 2 million US businesses. Black-owned businesses experienced the largest growth in number of businesses among minorities from 2002 to 2011. The Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 had as one goal to assist black-owned businesses land more federal contracts. It required federal agencies to open an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI) to track their diversity efforts in workforce hiring and procurement.\n\nIn 2015 The US Census Reported that there were 2.6 million black or African American-owned firms nationally in 2012, up from 1.9 million or 34.5 percent from 2007. Many apps and online directories, have emerged offering a database of African American owned businesses that consumers can support.\n\nBlack entrepreneurs originally based in music and sports diversified to build \"brand\" names that made for success in the advertising and media worlds. The most prominent examples include television news reporter Oprah Winfrey who became involved in numerous enterprises such as a book club that changed the way America reads. Basketball superstar Magic Johnson was named by \"Ebony\" magazine as one of America's most influential black businessmen in 2009, Johnson has numerous business interests, and was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years. Johnson also is part of a group of investors that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 and the Los Angeles Sparks in 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1548087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548087", "title": "Alphonse de Beauchamp", "text": "Alphonse de Beauchamp\n\nAlphonse de Beauchamp (1767–1832) was a French historian.\n\nHe was born in Monaco, he was educated in Paris. \nHe entered the Sardinian military service in 1784, but suffered imprisonment in 1792 for refusing to bear arms against the French Republic. \nBeauchamp escaped to France, where he obtained a position in the office of the Minister of Police, and was assigned the surveillance of the press. \n\nBeauchamp commenced his \"Histoire de la Vendée et des Chouans\" (three volumes, Paris, 1806), which depicted the cruelties of the Fouché regime. This book displeased the Emperor, and Beauchamp was banished to Rheims. He was recalled in 1811 and received a subordinate appointment. Under the Restoration, he received a pension and wrote for the \"Moniteur\" and the \"Gazette de France\".\n\nThe \"Mémoires\" of Fouché (Paris, 1828–29) and those of Fauche-Borel have also been ascribed to him, but in the case of the former it seems certain that he only revised and completed a work really composed by Fouché himself.\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "27927145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27927145", "title": "Angelo Del Boca", "text": "Angelo Del Boca\n\nAngelo Del Boca (born May 23, 1925 in Novara) is an Italian historian. He is specialized in the study of the Italian Colonial Empire, and the involvement in Libya, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia during the first part of 20th century. Del Boca has been the first Italian scholar involved in research on the crimes committed by the Italian army in Ethiopia and Libya During Fascism and World War II. He took part in the Italian resistance movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7563097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7563097", "title": "Archaic globalization", "text": "Archaic globalization\n\nArchaic globalization is a phase in the history of globalization, and conventionally refers to globalizing events and developments from the time of the earliest civilizations until roughly 1600 (the following period is known as early modern globalization). Archaic globalization describes the relationships between communities and states and how they were created by the geographical spread of ideas and social norms at both local and regional levels.\n\nStates began to interact and trade with others within close proximity as a way to acquire coveted goods that were considered a luxury. This trade led to the spread of ideas such as religion, economic structures and political ideals. Merchants became connected and aware of others in ways that had not been apparent. Archaic globalization is comparable to present day globalization on a much smaller scale. It not only allowed the spread of goods and commodities to other regions, but it also allowed people to experience other cultures. Cities that partook in trading were bound together by sea lanes, rivers, and great overland trade routes, some of which had been in use since antiquity. Trading was broken up according to geographic location, with centers between flanking places serving as \"break-in-bulk\" and exchange points for goods destined for more distant markets. During this time period the subsystems were more self-sufficient than they are today and therefore less vitally dependent upon one another for everyday survival. While long distance trading came with many trials and tribulations, still so much of it went on during this early time period. Linking the trade together involved eight interlinked subsystems that were grouped into three large circuits, which encompassed the western European, the Middle Eastern, and the Far Eastern circuits. This interaction during trading was early civilization's way to communicate and spread many ideas that caused modern globalization to emerge and allowed a new aspect to present-day society.\n\nGlobalization is the process of increasing interconnectedness between regions and individuals. Steps toward globalization include economic, political, technological, social, and cultural connections around the world. The term \"archaic\" can be described as early ideals and functions that were once historically apparent in society but may have disintegrated over time.\n\nThere are three main prerequisites for globalization to occur. The first is the idea of Eastern Origins, which shows how Western states have adapted and implemented learned principles from the East. Without the traditional ideas from the East, Western globalization would not have emerged the way it did. The second is distance. The interactions amongst states were not on a global scale and most often were confined to Asia, North Africa, the Middle East and certain parts of Europe. With early globalization it was difficult for states to interact with others that were not within close proximity. Eventually, technological advances allowed states to learn of others existence and another phase of globalization was able to occur. The third has to do with interdependency, stability and regularity. If a state is not dependent on another then there is no way for them to be mutually affected by one another. This is one of the driving forces behind global connections and trade; without either globalization would not have emerged the way it did and states would still be dependent on their own production and resources to function. This is one of the arguments surrounding the idea of early globalization. It is argued that archaic globalization did not function in a similar manner to modern globalization because states were not as interdependent on others as they are today.\n\nHistorians argue that a world system was in order before the rise of capitalism between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries. This is referred to as the early age of capitalism where long-distance trade, market exchange and capital accumulation existed amongst states. In 800 AD Greek, Roman and Muslim empires emerged covering areas known today as China and the Middle East. Major religions such as Christianity, Islam and Buddhism spread to distant lands where many are still intact today. One of the most popular examples of distant trade routes can be seen with the silk route between China and the Mediterranean, movement and trade with art and luxury goods between Arab regions, South Asia and Africa. These relationships through trade mainly formed in the east and eventually led to the development of capitalism. It was at this time that power and land shifted from the nobility and church to the bourgeoisie and division of labor in production emerged. During the later part of the twelfth century and the beginning of the thirteenth century an international trade system was developed between states ranging from northwestern Europe to China.\n\nDuring the 1500s other Asian empires emerged, which included trading over longer distances than before. During the early exchanges between states, Europe had little to offer with the exception of slaves, metals, wood and furs. The push for selling of items in the east drove European production and helped integrate them into the exchange. The European expansion and growth of opportunities for trade made possible by the Crusades increased the renaissance of agriculture, mining, and manufacturing. Rapid urbanization throughout Europe allowed a connection from the North Sea to Venice. Advances in industrialization coupled with the rouse of population growth and the growing demands of the eastern trade, led to the growth of true trading emporia with outlets to the sea.\n\nThere is a 'multi-polar' nature to archaic globalization, which involved the active participation of non-Europeans. Because it predated the Great Divergence of the nineteenth century, in which Western Europe pulled ahead of the rest of the world in terms of industrial production and economic output, archaic globalization was a phenomenon that was driven not only by Europe but also by other economically developed Old World centers such as Gujarat, Bengal, coastal China and Japan.\n\nThese pre-capitalist movements were regional rather than global and for the most part temporary. This idea of early globalization was proposed by the historian A.G. Hopkins in 2001. Hopkins main points on archaic globalization can be seen with trade, and diaspora that developed from this, as well as religious ideas and empires that spread throughout the region. This new interaction amongst states led to interconnections between parts of the world which led to the eventual interdependency amongst these state actors. The main actors that partook in the spreading of goods and ideas were kings, warriors, priests and traders. Hopkins also addresses that during this time period mini-globalizations were prominent and that some collapsed or became more insular. These mini-globalizations are referred to as episodic and ruptured, with empires sometimes overreaching and having to retract. These mini-globalizations left remnants that allowed the West to adopt these new ideals, leading to the idea of Western Capitalism. The adopted ideals can be seen in the Western monetary system and are central to systems like capitalism that define modernity and modern globalization.\n\nArchaic globalization consists of three principles: universalizing kingship, expansion of religious movements, and medicinal understanding.\n\nWith the increase in trade and state linkage, economic exchange extended throughout the region and caused actors to form new relationships. This early economic development can be seen in Champagne Fairs, which were outdoor markets where traveling merchants came to sell their products and make purchases. Traditionally, market fairs used barter as opposed to money, once larger itinerant merchants began to frequent them, the need for currency became greater and a money changer needed to be established. Some historical scholars argue that this was the beginning of the role of banker and the institution of credit. An example can be seen with one individual in need of an item the urban merchant does not ordinarily stock. The product seeker orders the item, which the merchant promises to bring him next time. The product seeker either gives credit to the merchant by paying them in advance, gets credit from the merchant by promising to pay them once the item is in stock, or some type of concession is made through a down payment. If the product seeker does not have the amount required by the merchant he may borrow from the capital stored by the money changer or he may mortgage part of his expected harvest, either from the money charger or the merchant he is seeking goods from. This lengthy transaction eventually resulted in a complex economic system and once the weekly market began to expand from barter to the monetized system required by long-distance trading.\n\nA higher circuit of trade developed once urban traders from outside city limits travelled from distant directions to the market center in the quest to buy or sell goods. Merchants would then begin to meet at the same spot on a weekly basis allowing for them to arrange with other merchants to bring special items for exchange that were not demanded by the local agriculturalists but for markets in their home towns. When the local individuals placed advanced orders, customers from towns of different traders may begin to place order for items in a distant town that their trader can order from their counterpart. This central meeting point, becomes the focus of long-distance trade and how it began to increase.\n\nIn order for trade to be able to expand during this early time period, it required some basic functions of the market as well as the merchants. The first was security. Goods that were being transported began to have more value and the merchants needed to protect their coveted goods especially since they were often traveling through poor areas where the risk of theft was high. To overcome this problem merchants began to travel in caravans as a way to ensure their personal safety as well as the safety of their goods. The second prerequisite to early long distant trade had to be an agreement on a rate of exchange. Since many of the merchants came from distant lands with different monetary systems a system had to be put into place as a way to enforce repayment of previous goods, repay previous debt and to ensure contracts were upheld. Expansion was also able to thrive so long as it had a motive for exchange as a way to promote trade amongst foreign lands. Also, outside merchants access to trading sites was a critical factor in trade route growth.\n\nThe most popular goods produced were spices, which were traded over short distances, while manufactured goods were central to the system and could not have been aided without them. The invention of money in the form of gold coins in Europe and Middle East and paper money in China around the thirteenth century allowed trade to move more easily between the different actors. The main actors involved in this system viewed gold, silver, and copper as valuable on different levels. Nevertheless, goods were transferred, prices set, exchange rates agreed upon, contracts entered into, credit extended, partnerships formed and agreements that were made were kept on record and honored. During this time of globalization, credit was also used as a means for trading. The use of credit began in the form of blood ties but later led to the emergence the \"banker\" as a profession.\n\nWith the spread of people came new ideas, religion and goods throughout the land, which had never been apparent in most societies before the movement. Also, this globalization lessened the degree of feudal life by transitioning from self-sufficient society to a money economy. Most of the trade connecting North Africa and Europe was controlled by the Middle East, China and India around 1400. Because of the danger and great cost of long-distance travel in the pre-modern period, archaic globalization grew out of the trade in high-value commodities which took up a small amount of space. Most of the goods that were produced and traded were considered a luxury and many considered those with these coveted items to have a higher place on the societal scale.\n\nExamples of such luxury goods would include Chinese silks, exotic herbs, coffee, cotton, iron, Indian calicoes, Arabian horses, gems and spices or drugs such as nutmeg, cloves, pepper, ambergris and opium. The thirteenth century as well as present day favor luxury items due to the fact that small high-value goods can have high transport costs but still have a high value attached to them, whereas low-value heavy goods are not worth carrying very far. Purchases of luxury items such as these are described as archaic consumption since trade was largely popular for these items as opposed to everyday needs. The distinction between food, drugs and materia medica is often quite blurred in regards to these substances, which were valued not only for their rarity but because they appealed to humoral theories of health and the body that were prevalent throughout premodern Eurasia.\n\nDuring the time of archaic globalization there were three major trade routes which connected Europe, China and the Middle East. The northern most route went through mostly the Mongol Empire and was nearly 5000 miles long. Even though the route consisted of mostly vast stretches of desert with little to no resources, merchants still traveled it. The route was still traveled because during the 13th century Kubilai Khan united the Mongol Empire and charged only a small protective rent to travelers. Before the unification, merchants from the Middle East used the path but were stopped and taxed at nearly every village. The middle route went from the coast of Syria to Baghdad from there the traveler could follow the land route through Persia to India, or sail to India via the Persian Gulf. Between the 8th and 10th centuries, Baghdad was a world city but in the 11th century it began to decline due to natural disasters including floods, earthquakes, and fires. In 1258, Baghdad was taken over by the Mongols. The Mongols forced high taxes on the citizens of Baghdad which led to a decrease in production, causing merchants to bypass the city The third, southern most route, went through Mamluk controlled Egypt, After the fall of Baghdad, Cairo became the Islamic capital.\n\nSome major cities along these trading routes were wealthy and provided services for merchants and the international markets. Palmyra and Petra which are located on the fringes of the Syrian Desert, flourished mainly as power centers of trading. They would police the trade routes and be the source of supplies for the merchants caravans. They also became places where people of different ethnic and cultural backgrounds could meet and interact. These trading routes were the communication highways for the ancient civilizations and their societies. New inventions, religious beliefs, artistic styles, languages, and social customs, as well as goods and raw materials, were transmitted by people moving from one place to another to conduct business.\n\nProto-globalization is the period following archaic globalization which occurred from the 17th through the 19th centuries. The global routes established within the period of archaic globalization gave way to more distinguished expanding routes and more complex systems of trade within the period of proto-globalization. Familiar trading arrangements such as the East India Company appeared within this period, making larger-scale exchanges possible. Slave trading was especially extensive and the associated mass-production of commodities on plantations is characteristic of this time.\n\nAs a result of a measurable amount of polyethnic regions due to these higher frequency trade routes, war became prominent. Such wars include the French and Indian War, American Revolutionary War. and the Anglo-Dutch War between England and the Dutch Republic.\n\nThe modern form of globalization began to take form during the 19th century. The evolving beginnings of this period were largely responsible for the expansion of the West, capitalism and imperialism backed up by the nation-state and industrial technology. This began to emerge during the 1500s, continuing to expand exponentially over time as industrialization developed in the 18th century. The conquests of the British Empire and the Opium Wars added to the industrialization and formation of the growing global society because it created vast consumer regions.\n\nWorld War I is when the first phase of modern globalization began to take force. It is said by VM Yeates that the economic forces of globalization were part of the cause of the war. Since World War I, globalization has expanded greatly. The evolving improvements of multinational corporations, technology, science, and mass media have all been results of extensive worldwide exchanges. In addition, institutions such as the World Bank, the World Trade Organization and many international telecommunication companies have also shaped modern globalization. The World Wide Web has also played a large role in modern globalization. The Internet provides connectivity across national and international borders, aiding in the enlargement of a global network.\n\n"}
{"id": "19025796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19025796", "title": "Barbara Gluck", "text": "Barbara Gluck\n\nBarbara Gluck (born 1938) is an American photojournalist, art photographer, speaker, writer, and healing facilitator.\n\nAfter an early career in advertising she spent almost four years in Vietnam, during the war, and produced award-winning photojournalism during the Vietnam War. During the late 1970s she developed her career as an art photographer, with her \"Light Painting\" series becoming major museum shows.\nIn the early 1980s she co-founded the Light Institute of Galisteo, in New Mexico, which became famous for its \"Past Life\" work. In the late 1980s Gluck went on to found the Global Light Network and the Soul Matrix Clearing, Healing and Empowerment System, which focused on releasing \"The Primordial Imprints of Separation from God\". She has taken this around the world.\n\nGluck was born in New York, the daughter of Hungarian immigrants. Her father worked as a diamond setter. She graduated from NYU with a major in communication arts and a minor in journalism, entering a career in advertising with McCann Erickson and later Benton & Bowles, before the president of the Young & Rubicam agency hired her as a Special Advisor. Her career as a photojournalist began in earnest during the Vietnam War. She was based in Saigon 1968/69 and 1972/73, working mostly for \"The New York Times\". In 1976 she moved to Santa Fe, New Mexico and began her work as an art photographer, with a major exhibit \"The Stream\" opening at The Museum of Fine Arts in Santa Fe in 1979. She continued her photojournalism as well. During the 1970s she lectured, co-produced the first New Mexico Film and Photography Festival in Santa Fe's Armory for the Arts, and served (in 1978-79) as a Public Relations and Media Consultant to the Navajo Nation - during the Navajo Hopi Land Dispute Commission. She currently resides in Santa Monica, California.\n\nGluck was one of numerous female photographers to cover the Vietnam War. During these detachments she both flew with the US military on a B-52 bombing mission and visited Viet Cong troops, whom she photographed for the cover of \"The New York Times\". Mark Edward Harris, in art photography periodical \"B+W magazine\", said \"Barbara Gluck's photos have been called 'the Cartier-Bressons of the Vietnam War', and rightly so.\" In spring 2005, to mark the 30th anniversary of the war's end, the Vietnamese government invited her to participate as a keynote speaker at a \"Conference of Reunion and Reconciliation\" for contemporary Vietnamese journalists and for foreign journalists who had covered the war. She was also invited to speak at another conference, on \"The Role of Journalism in the Development of Vietnam.\" During the visit she photographed images for a forthcoming book, \"Vietnam: Then and Now\", commissioned to include both her black and white images from the 1970s and new images in color. In early 2005, the J.P. Getty Museum in Los Angeles purchased a portfolio of her vintage Vietnam prints for their permanent collection, and included one of her photographs in the exhibit “Pictures for The Press”, representing 35 images of historic events between 1940 and the 1970s.\n\nIn 1984 Gluck co-founded The Light Institute of Galisteo, New Mexico, an organization she later left to found a new company, The Global Light Network. She developed a healing process called the Soul Matrix Clearing, Healing and Empowerment Process which she has since taught around the world.\n\nGluck received the 1973 World Press Photo Foundation award for Outstanding News Photo of the Year, and a Poynter Fellowship at Yale University for Excellence in Journalism in 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51473766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51473766", "title": "CBN Ogbogbo", "text": "CBN Ogbogbo\n\nChristopher Bankole Ndubisi Ogbogbo (born in Lagos) B.A. (Hons), M.A., LLB, is a lawyer, Professor and Head of Department of History, University of Ibadan, National President, Historical Society of Nigeria (2014 - 2018), Fellow, Historical Society of Nigeria and Fellow, Society for Peace Studies and Practice is from Delta State in Nigeria.\n\nCBN Ogboogbo was born in Lagos, had his teething years in Lagos and Port Harcourt. He Study History at the University of Ibadan and law degrees at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. Ogbogbo has lectured African History at Ibadan for the past 28 years. He has taught, researched and supervised over 8 Ph.D. theses in African History and in Peace and Conflict Studies and about 85 Master's degree dissertations. A senior member of the Nigerian Bar Association, he has also practiced law for close to two decades. He has been Public Relations Officer and Treasurer of the NBA Ibadan branch in the early 1990s.\n\nOgbogbo as a scholar, is a widely travelled and has published so many books, he has won several academic laurels and grants. In his kitty is the Institute for Research in Africa (IFRA) grant 2005, MacArthur Foundation grant 2006, the University of Ibadan Senate Research grant 2007, and the Humanities Staff Development Grant 2015. He was a Visiting Scholar to Northwestern University Evanston, and Dartmouth College, (both in the USA), St. Augustine University of Tanzania, Mwanza and the University of Benin in Nigeria. He was appointed a Visiting Professor of African History in Kennesaw State University in Atlanta Georgia in 2014. He has published over 60 works in reputable academic journals and books. He is the current Editor- in- Chief of the Journal of the Historical Society of Nigeria and the Editor of Ibadan School of History Monograph Series. Ogbogbo has written copiously on the Niger Delta and the challenges of nation building in Nigeria. He has gone further to introduce the study of Niger Delta studies to the University of Ibadan History curriculum.\n\nHe is a consultant to several organizations such as the Federal Ministry of Education and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and a member of several academic bodies prominent amongst which are Ethnic Studies Network, Ireland, American Studies Association, Member, African Studies Association, U.S.A., Historical Society of Nigeria, Nigerian Bar Association and the Society for Peace Studies & Practice. His current passion is to midwife through the instrumentality of the Historical Society of Nigeria, the restoration of the teaching of History back to the school system in Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "15127621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15127621", "title": "Charles M. Hudson", "text": "Charles M. Hudson\n\nCharles Melvin Hudson, Jr. (1932–2013) was an anthropologist, professor of anthropology and history at the University of Georgia, and a leading scholar on the history and culture of Native Americans in the Southeastern United States.\n\nHudson grew up on a farm in Owen County, Kentucky, then served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War. After the war, he used the G.I. Bill to attend the University of Kentucky, receiving a bachelor's degree in anthropology in 1958. He then pursued graduate studies in anthropology at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, earning an M.A. (1962) and a Ph.D. (1965). Upon earning his doctorate, he became a faculty member in the anthropology department at the University of Georgia, where he would spend the next 35 years, until his 2000 retirement, a professor of anthropology and history. After retiring, Hudson returned to Kentucky. He died there on June 8, 2013.\n\nHudson published \"The Southeastern Indians\" (University of Tennessee Press, 1976), a comprehensive overview of the region's native peoples. He was perhaps best known for his extensive research of Hernando de Soto's 1539–1543 expedition across the Southeast. In 1984, Hudson and fellow researchers Marvin T. Smith and Chester DePratter mapped the route taken by de Soto's expedition by using written accounts of expedition members and matching them with geographic features and archaeological evidence of Indian settlements. Hudson and his colleagues argued that the sites of these settlements formed a chain across the Southeast that marked the path that would have been taken by the expedition. .\n\nHis other works included \"Knights of Spain, Warriors of the Sun\" (University of Georgia Press, 1997), a detailed account of the de Soto expedition. In his retirement, he began writing historical novels.\n\nA strong advocate of fostering close ties between the disciplines of anthropology and history, Hudson was one of the founders of the Southern Anthropological Society, serving as president of the organization in 1973–74. In 1993–94 he served as president of the American Society for Ethnohistory.\n\nHudson's work has had a major influence on subsequent scholars of American Indians in the Southeast, and he is frequently cited by various historians, archaeologists, and anthropologists, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8017687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017687", "title": "Critical historiography", "text": "Critical historiography\n\nCritical historiography approaches the history of art, literature or architecture from a critical theory perspective. Critical historiography is used by various scholars in recent decades to emphasize the ambiguous relationship between the past and the writing of history. Specifically, it is used as a method by which one understands the past and can be applied in various fields of academic work. \n\nWhile historiography is concerned with the theory and history of historical writing, including the study of the developmental trajectory of history as a discipline, critical historiography addresses how historians or historical authors have been influenced by their own groups and loyalties. Here, there is an assumption that historical sources should not be taken at face value and has to be examined critically according to scholarly criteria. \n\nSome authors trace the origin of this field in nineteenth-century Germany, particularly with \"Leopold von Ranke\", one of the proponents of the concept of \"Wissenschaft\", which means \"critical history\" or \"scientific history\", which viewed historiography as a rigorous, critical inquiry. For instance, in the application of \"Wissenschaft\" to the study of Judaism, it is maintained that there is an implied criticism of the stand of those advocating Orthodoxy. It is said to reveal the tendency of nationalist historians to favor the pious affirmation of the orthodox in attempts to restore pride in Jewish history. \n\nA type of critical historiography can be seen in the work of Harold Bloom. In \"Map of Misreading\", Bloom argued that poets should not be seen as autonomous agents of creativity, but rather as part of a history that transcends their own production and that to a large degree gives it shape. The historian can try to stabilize poetic production so as to better understand the work of art, but can never completely extract the historical subject from history. \n\nAlso among those who argue for the primacy of historiography is the architectural historian Mark Jarzombek. The focus of this work is on disciplinary production rather than poetic production, as was the case with Bloom. Since psychology – which became a more or less official science in the 1880s – is now so pervasive, Jarzombek argued, but yet so difficult to pinpoint, the traditional dualism of subjectivity and objectivity has become not only highly ambiguous, but also the site of a complex negotiation that needs to take place between the historian and the discipline. The issue, for Jarzombek, is particular poignant in the fields of art and architectural history, the principal subject of the book. Pierre Nora's notion of \"ego-histories\" also moves in the direction of critical historiography. The idea of these histories is to bring into focus the relationship between the personality of historians and their life choices in the process of writing of history.\n\nA critique of critical historiography cites the risk of judging the realities of the past by the yardstick of what is true in the present so that it becomes illusory and can obscure identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1398303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1398303", "title": "David and Jonathan", "text": "David and Jonathan\n\nDavid (Hebrew: ; \"Dāwīḏ\" or \"David\") and Jonathan (Hebrew: ; \"Yəhōnāṯān\" or \"Yehonatan\") were heroic figures of the Kingdom of Israel, who formed a covenant of friendship recorded in the books of Samuel.\n\nJonathan was the son of Saul, king of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and David was the son of Jesse of Bethlehem, of the tribe of Judah, and Jonathan's presumed rival for the crown. David became king. The covenant the two men had formed eventually led to David, after Jonathan's death, graciously seating Jonathan's son Mephibosheth at his own royal table instead of eradicating the former king Saul's line.\n\nThe biblical text does not explicitly depict the nature of the relationship between David and Jonathan. The traditional and mainstream religious interpretation of the relationship has been one of platonic love and an example of homosociality. Some later Medieval and Renaissance literature drew upon the story to underline strong personal friendships between men, some of which involved romantic love and could be described as romantic relationships.\n\nIn modern times, some scholars, writers, and activists have emphasized elements of homoeroticism in the story. A number of groups made up of gay Roman Catholics trying to reconcile their faith with their sexuality have also adopted the name - Davide e Gionata (Italy), and David et Jonathan (France).\n\nThe relationship between David and Jonathan is mainly covered in the Hebrew Bible Book of Samuel. The episodes belong to the story of David's ascent to power, which is commonly regarded as one of the sources of the Deuteronomistic history, and to its later additions.\n\nDavid, the youngest son of Jesse, slays Goliath at the Valley of Elah where the Philistine army is in a standoff with the army of King Saul (Jonathan's father). David's victory begins a rout of the Philistines who are driven back to Gath and the gates of Ekron. Abner brings David to Saul while David is still holding Goliath's severed head. Jonathan, the eldest son of Saul, has also been fighting the Philistines. Jonathan takes an immediate liking to David and the two form a covenant:\nNow it came about when he had finished speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as himself. Saul took him that day and did not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as himself. Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, with his armor, including his sword and his bow and his belt. So David went out wherever Saul sent him, and prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war. (NASB)\nAs Saul continues to pursue David, the pair renew their covenant, after which they do not meet again. Eventually Saul and David are reconciled. Jonathan, however, is slain on Mt. Gilboa along with his two brothers Abinadab and Malchi-shua, and there Saul commits suicide. David learns of Saul and Jonathan's death and chants a lament, which in part says:\nSaul and Jonathan, beloved and pleasant in their life, And in their death they were not parted; They were swifter than eagles, They were stronger than lions ... How have the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places. I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was more wonderful than the love of women. How have the mighty fallen, And the weapons of war perished!\n\n\"The sages characterized the relationship between Jonathan and David in the following Mishnah: “Whenever love depends on some selfish end, when the end passes away, the love passes away; but if it does not depend on some selfish end, it will never pass away. Which love depended on a selfish end? This was the love of Amnon and Tamar. And which did not depend on a selfish end? This was the love of David and Jonathan. (Avot 5:15)\"\n\nRabbi Shimon ben Tzemach Duran (Spain, North Africa 14th-15th century) delineated the significance of this mishnah: “Anyone who establishes a friendship for access to power, money, or sexual relations; when these ends are not attainable, the friendship ceases…love that is not dependent on selfish ends is true love of the other person since there is no intended end.” (Magen Avot – abridged and adapted translation)\n\nA platonic interpretation for the relationship between David and Jonathan has been the mainstream view found in biblical exegesis, as led by Christian writers. This argues that the relationship between the two, although strong and close, is ultimately a platonic friendship. The covenant that is made is political, and not erotic; while any intimacy is a case of male bonding and homosociality.\nDavid and Jonathan's love is understood as the intimate camaraderie between two young soldiers with no sexual involvement. The books of Samuel do not actually document physical intimacy between the two characters aside from \"kissing,\" while the euphemisms the Bible uses for sexual relations are missing, and nothing indicates that David and Jonathan slept together. Neither of the men is described as having problems in their heterosexual married life. David had an abundance of wives and concubines as well as an adulterous affair with Bathsheba, and apparently suffered impotence only as an old man, while Jonathan had a five-year-old son at his death.\n\nIn response to the argument that homoeroticism was edited out, some traditionalists who subscribe to the Documentary Hypothesis note the significance of the lack of censoring of the descriptions at issue, in spite of the Levitical injunctions against homoerotic contact. Gagnon notes, \"The narrator’s willingness to speak of David’s vigorous heterosexual life (compare the relationship with Bathsheba) puts in stark relief his (their) complete silence about any sexual activity between David and Jonathan.\"\n\nPresuming such editing would have taken place, Martti Nissinen comments, \"Their mutual love was certainly regarded by the editors as faithful and passionate, but without unseemly allusions to forbidden practices ... Emotional and even physical closeness of two males did not seem to concern the editors of the story, nor was such a relationship prohibited by Leviticus.\" Homosociality is not seen as being part of the sexual taboo in the biblical world.\n\nMedieval literature occasionally drew upon the biblical relationship between David and Jonathan to underline strong personal and intimate friendships between men. The story has also frequently been used as a coded reference to homoerotic relations when the mention was socially discouraged or even punished.\n\nThe anonymous \"Vita Edwardi Secundi\", c. 1326 AD, wrote: \"Indeed I do remember to have heard that one man so loved another. Jonathan cherished David, Achilles loved Patroclus.\" And thus, King Edward II wept for his dead lover Piers Gaveston as: \"... David had mourned for Jonathan.\". Similarly, Roger of Hoveden, a twelfth-century chronicler, deliberately drew comparisons in his description of “The King of France (Philip II Augustus) [who] loved him (Richard the Lionheart) as his own soul.”\n\nThe Renaissance artists Donatello and Michelangelo both brought out strong homoerotic elements in their respective sculptures depicting the youthful David.\n\nSome modern scholars and writers have interpreted the love between David and Jonathan as more intimate than platonic friendship. This was first pioneered by Tom Horner, then adopted by John Boswell. This interpretation views the bonds the men shared as romantic love, regardless of whether the relationship was physically consummated. Jonathan and David cared deeply about each other in a way that was arguably stronger and more intimate than a platonic friendship.\n\nDavid's praise in for Jonathan's 'love' (for him) over the 'love' of women is considered evidence for same-sex attraction, along with Saul's exclamation to his son at the dinner table, \"I know you have chosen the son of Jesse - which is a disgrace to yourself and the nakedness of your mother!\" The \"choosing\" (\"bahar\") may indicate a permanent choice and firm relationship, and the mention of \"nakedness\" (\"erwa\") could be interpreted to convey a negative sexual nuance, giving the impression that Saul saw something indecent in Jonathan and David's relationship.\n\nSome also point out that the relationship between the two men is addressed with the same words and emphasis as other love relationships in the Hebrew Testament, whether heterosexual or between God and people: e.g. 'ahava' or אהבה.‎\n\nWhen they are alone together, David confides that he has \"found grace in Jonathan's eyes\", a phrase proponents say normally refers to romantic or physical attraction. Throughout the passages, David and Jonathan consistently affirm and reaffirm their love and devotion to one another, and Jonathan is willing to betray his father, family, wealth, and traditions for David.\n\nThat there is more than mere homosociality in the dealings of David and Jonathan is asserted by two recent studies: the biblical scholar Susan Ackerman, and the Orientalist Jean-Fabrice Nardelli. Ackerman and Nardelli argue that the narrators of the books of Samuel encrypted same-sex allusions in the texts where David and Jonathan interact so as to insinuate that the two heroes were lovers. Ackerman explains this as a case of liminal, viz. transitory, homosexuality, deployed by the redactors as a textual means to assert David's rights against Jonathan's: the latter willingly alienated his princely status by bowing down (), sexually speaking, to the former. Nardelli disagrees and argues that the various covenants Jonathan engaged David into as the superior partner gradually elevated David's status and may be seen as marriage-like.\n\nSusan Ackerman also believes that there is highly eroticized language present in six different sections in the Hebrew Bible in regards to the relationship of David and Jonathan. The six sections she mentions are 1) David and Jonathan's first meeting in 1 Sam. 18:1-18:4 2) the most important description of David and Jonathan's first few meetings in 1 Sam 19:1-19:7. 3) the incident of Saul berating Jonathan for his friendship with David in 1 Sam 20:30-20:34 4) David fleeing from the court of King Saul in 1 Sam. 20:1-20:42 5) the description of David and Jonathan's final meeting in 1 Sam. 23:15-23:18 and 6) David's lament (the Song of the Bow) for Saul and Jonathan. Of these six examples, Ackerman identifies the most important example being the last one (the Song of the Bow) due to David's assertion that Jonathan's love to David \"was more wonderful than the love of women\".\n\nAlthough David was married, David himself articulates a distinction between his relationship with Jonathan and the bonds he shares with women. David is married to many women, one of whom is Jonathan's sister Michal, but the Bible does not mention David loving Michal (though it is stated that Michal loves David).\n\nNissinen has concluded:\n\nPerhaps these homosocial relationships, based on love and equality, are more comparable with modern homosexual people's experience of themselves than those texts that explicitly speak of homosexual acts that are aggressive, violent expressions of domination and subjection.\nOther interpreters point out that neither the books of Samuel nor Jewish tradition documents sanctioned romantic or erotic physical intimacy between the two characters, which the Bible elsewhere makes evident when between heterosexuals, most supremely in the Song of Solomon. It is also known that covenants were common, and that marriage was a public event and included customs not seen in this story.\n\nThe platonic interpretation of David and Jonathan's relationship is advocated by the religious writer Robert A. J. Gagnon and the Assyriologist Markus Zehnder and is consistent with commonly held theological views condemning same sex relations.\n\nThe removal of the robe is seen as a ceremonial act following the precedent of Aaron, of whom God commanded, \"And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son\", in transference of the office of the former upon the latter. In like manner, Jonathan would be symbolically and prophetically transferring the kingship of himself (as the normal heir) to David, which would come to pass.\n\nEven if the mention of \"nakedness\" in 1 Samuel 20:30 could be interpreted to convey a negative sexual nuance, it is related to Jonathan's mother Ahinoam rather than Jonathan (\"to the shame of the nakedness of your mother\"). Jon Levenson and Baruch Halpern suggest that the phrase suggests \"David's theft of Saul's wife\", and that the verse supports the construction that Ahinoam, the wife of Saul is the same Ahinoam who became David's wife.\n\nThese interpreters also argue that the description in 2 Samuel 1:26 of the “love” (Hebrew: “ahava”) between David and Jonathan that is greater than the “love of women” should be understood in light of the two earlier mentions of “love” (ahava) between David and Jonathan where it is described not as love for a romantic partner but love for self (“he loved him as his own soul,” 1 Sam 18:3; 20:17).\n\nFurthermore, the phrase “David has found grace in Jonathan's eyes,” mentioned above, is not normally a reference to romantic or physical attraction, since in 45 of the 46 other occurrences it refers to finding grace either in the eyes of God, of a ruler or wealthy landowner, of a close relative, of the father of a potential bride, or of a nation. The only occurrence where the phrase is used of lovers is a wife no longer finding grace in the eyes of her husband, not because he no longer finds her physically attractive but because he has “found some indecency in her” (Deuteronomy 24:1).\n\nIn platonic respects, such as in sacrificial loyalty and zeal for the kingdom, Jonathan's love is seen as surpassing that of romantic or erotic affection, especially that of the women David had known up until that time. The grammatical and social difficulties are pointed out in respect to 1 Samuel 18:21, as well as the marked difference in the Bible between sensual kissing (as in \"Song of Songs\") and the cultural kiss of Near Eastern culture whether in greeting or as expression of deep affection between friends and family (as found throughout the Old and New Testaments). The strong emotive language expressed by David towards Jonathan is also argued to be akin to that of platonic expressions in more expressive or pre-urban cultures.\n\nOrly Keren additionally posits that the relationship between Jonathan and David was not without enlightened self-interest on both sides: Jonathan in obtaining guarantees for his own future and that of his family, and David in creating and maintaining a public image. Keren suggests that David's lament for Jonathan may have been a calculated pose for a people mourning a popular prince.\n\nAt his 1895 trial, Oscar Wilde cited the example of David and Jonathan in support of \"the love that dare not speak its name\": \"Such a great affection of an elder for a younger man as there was between David and Jonathan, such as Plato made the very basis of his philosophy, and such as you find in the sonnets of Michelangelo and Shakespeare.\"\n\nIn his Lambeth essay of December 2007, James Jones, the Bishop of Liverpool, drew particular attention to the \"emotional, spiritual, and even physical\" friendship between David and Jonathan: \n\nIn 1993 a member of the Knesset in Israel, Yael Dayan, provoked controversy when she referred to David and Jonathan in a parliamentary debate in support of whether gay men and women could serve in the Israeli military.\n\nIn Tim Winton's 2018 novel \"The Shepherd's Hut\" (published by Hamish Hamilton) the old hermit, Fintan, a defrocked priest, alludes to this biblical couple, at page 181: \"Fintan reckoned we was the original odd couple, a veritable David and Jonathan he said, like they was some chilled dudes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3388829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3388829", "title": "Eliahu Sacharoff", "text": "Eliahu Sacharoff\n\nEliahu Sacharoff was a member of the Haganah who, on 8 October 1943, was sentenced by a military court in the British Mandate of Palestine to seven years' imprisonment after being found guilty of possessing more ammunition than his firearm license allowed.\n\nThe mayor of Tel Aviv gave evidence as a defence witness said that he approved of the Haganah as a defensive organization to protect life and property.\n\nAccording to the president of the court, W. Russell Lawrence, Sacharoff was tried and convicted under Regulation 8C (b) Emergency Regulations, 1936 (as amended) for being in possession of two rounds, one of which was of a special kind stolen from a consignment delivered to the Suez docks in February 1943. According to this account, documents in Sacharoff's possession showed him to be directly linked to the conspirators who had carried out the theft.\n\n"}
{"id": "32885144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32885144", "title": "Fabrice d'Almeida", "text": "Fabrice d'Almeida\n\nFabrice d'Almeida(born 15 November 1963) is a French historian. His expertise lies in history of the media, image propaganda and manipulation.\n\nAfter receiving his master's degree from the Sorbonne and Sciences Po, he earned a Ph.D from the Paris West University Nanterre La Défense. As a fellow of the École Française de Rome, he initiated the study of socialism in France and Italy therefore becoming one of the first comparative historians in France. He was invited to the TU-Berlin in Germany as a guest professor as the recipient of the Alexander von Humboldt fellowship, under the supervision of Jürgen Kocka and (ZVGE). D'Almeida also spent two years in Berlin at the Marc Bloch Center. Upon his return to Paris he was promoted to director of the Institut d’Histoire du Temps Présent (IHTP CNRS) and was then elected to be full professor at Panthéon-Assas University. He is now the director of Master Media and Globalization at the University. He was appointed publisher at Albin Michel in January 2015.\n\nHis work with , \"Et si on refaisait l’histoire ?\" is a reflection on French history. It is one of the first \"What-If?\" genre histories in France.\n\nThe work of Fabrice d'Almeida was brought to the attention of the general public through the release of several documentaries and TV films such as \"Love, Hate, and Propaganda.\" (CBC-Toronto)\n\nHis book \"High Society Under the Third Reich\" is the first systematic study of the relationship between German high society and the Nazis. It uses unpublished archival material, private diaries and diplomatic documents to explore the hidden areas of power where privileges, tax breaks, and stolen property were exchanged.\nHis most recently published book in France focused on the management of the SS concentration camp guards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44466439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44466439", "title": "Facing History and Ourselves", "text": "Facing History and Ourselves\n\nFacing History and Ourselves is a non-profit organization in the United States, founded in 1976. The group develops educational material on prejudices and injustice in American and European society, with a focus on Nazi Germany and The Holocaust. The organization is based in Brookline, Massachusetts with 180 staff members in the main office and in other U.S. states.\n\nSince the late 1970s, the group claims to have trained over 10,000 teachers, who have taught over half a million students in the U.S. and Canada. The curriculum is now also used in Israel, Northern Ireland, South Africa and China. Most of their revenue comes from grants and contributions. The teaching workshops, seminars, guest speakers, and resource materials are funded by the contributions and gifts. Corporations and foundations have donated contributions of up to $99,000. Contributors that donate 100,000 or more are placed into FHAO’s Sustaining Gift Program, which currently includes over 86 families and foundations. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donated over $200,000 for the implementation of common-core standards in July 2013.\n\nThe course is aimed at middle school and high school students. In the classroom, students take part in group discussions and use primary source material to learn about different historical events. The curriculum aims to create a history course with a reflective component, allowing students to think about modern day prejudices. The semester-long class starts with learning about the impact of the individual in society and how one is affected by his or her environment and culture. Students then learn about governments and the roles citizens play in their nation, and talk about the effects of bystanders in society. Classes gradually move into talking about dehumanization and how different societal groups can turn against each other, threatening a democracy. The course is taught by looking into racial segregation in the United States. Students also learn about the Armenian Genocide, Cambodian Genocide, and the history of Native Americans and Japanese Americans in the USA. The final subject focused on is anti-semitism and Nazi Germany. The course aims to connect the events with the students’ lives by calling for reflection. Students are asked to think about familiar subjects such as peer pressure, conformity, and belongingness. The course's goal is to help students realize their role in society, and to promote global citizenship so that future events like the ones discussed can be prevented.\n\nFHAO offers professional development programs for educators interested in teaching the subject. To meet local, state, or national mandates, the organization works with the school district. The course also meets Common Core Standards by offering resources and professional development, using primary source material. The organization has been working longest with Boston Public Schools and has developed units for their civics and history curricula for grades 8-11. They also work with departments of education to meet their individual standards as well. Working with high school and middle school teachers, they are taught how to lead group discussions, introduce controversial topics, and establish a classroom environment necessary for the course. FHAO provides online courses divided into single week sessions, which include group discussions, videos, and conference calls. In addition to working with individual educators, the organization also goes to schools and school districts to lead seminars and programs. After attending a seminar, taking an online course, or participating in a workshop, teachers have access to a free online lending library and individual coaching, and can book guest speakers for the classroom.\n\nEducator resources on the group's website include lesson plans, readings, study guides, teaching strategies, library resources, videos, and project ideas. The readings are broken down into the topics of anti-semitism, the Armenian Genocide, the Civil Rights Movement, democracy, eugenics, genocide and collective violence, The Holocaust, human rights, human behavior, and immigration.\n\nRoger Brooks was appointed as Facing History and Ourselves’ president and CEO from December 1, 2014. Brooks was formerly Dean of the Faculty and Chief Academic Officer at Connecticut College. Margot Stern Strom, the executive director, cofounded the organization in 1976 and received the Charles A. Dana Award for Pioneering Achievements in Education on November 5, 1997 in New York City.\n\nThe group's evaluation department claims to have performed over 140 studies which show the program to be effective and beneficial to students. In 2006 the Institute of Education Sciences of the United States Department of Education released a WWC intervention report. It evaluated eight studies conducted by FHAO, and seven did not meet WWC evidence standards and reservations. When evaluating the studies, WWC did not notice statistical significance in knowledge, attitudes, and values. The one study that did meet standards showed primary outcomes of relationship maturity, ethnic identity, civic attitudes and participation, racism, and moral reasoning. The study suggested that, in a group of 346 eighth grade students, Facing History positively affected their maturity level and made them less racist. It did not show significant change in students’ moral reasoning. Difference in change of ethnic reasoning was slightly significant from a pre-test to a post-test.\n\nFacing History has been said to be the only way some students learn about the Holocaust in today’s society, and historian Deborah Lipstadt wrote in 1995 that this single approach is not sufficient.\n"}
{"id": "230281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230281", "title": "Fan S. Noli", "text": "Fan S. Noli\n\nTheofan Stilian Noli, known as Fan Noli (6 January 1882 – 13 March 1965), was an Albanian writer, scholar, diplomat, politician, historian, orator and founder of the Orthodox Church of Albania, who served as Prime Minister and regent of Albania in 1924 during the June Revolution.\n\nFan Noli is venerated in Albania as a champion of literature, history, theology, diplomacy, journalism, music and national unity. He played an important role in the consolidation of Albanian as the national language of Albania with numerous translations of world literature masterpieces. He also wrote extensively in English: as a scholar and author of a series of publications on Skanderbeg, Shakespeare, Beethoven, religious texts and translations. He produced a translation of the New Testament in English, \"The New Testament of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ from the approved Greek text of the Church of Constantinople and the Church of Greece\", published in 1961.\n\nNoli earned degrees at Harvard (1912), the New England Conservatory of Music (1938), and finally his Ph.D. from Boston University (1945). He was ordained a priest in 1908, establishing thereby the Albanian Church and elevating the Albanian language to ecclesiastic use. He briefly resided in Albania after the 1912 declaration of independence. After World War I, Noli led the diplomatic efforts for the reunification of Albania and received the support of US President Woodrow Wilson. Later he pursued a diplomatic-political career in Albania, successfully leading the Albanian bid for membership in the League of Nations.\n\nA respected figure who remained critical of corruption and injustice in the Albanian government, Fan Noli was asked to lead the 1924 June Revolution. He then served as prime minister until his revolutionary government was overthrown by Ahmet Zogu. He was exiled to Italy and permanently settled in the United States in the 1930s, acquiring US citizenship and agreeing to end his political involvement. He spent the rest of his life as an academician, religious leader and writer.\n\nFan Noli was born in 1882 in the Albanian village of Ibrik Tepe (), Eastern Thrace (then part of the Ottoman Empire) as Theofanes Stylianos Mavromatis. He was an Albanian of the Eastern Orthodox faith. He came from an Orthodox Albanian community who had fled socio-political turbulence (18th century) from what is today southern Albania and resettled in Thrace in areas that had been depopulated due to previous conflicts. During his youth, Noli received his education from Greek elementary and secondary schools. As a young man, Noli wandered throughout the Mediterranean Basin, living in Athens, Greece, Alexandria, Egypt and Odessa, Russia, and supported himself as an actor and translator. As well as his native Albanian, he spoke many languages such as Greek, English, French, Turkish, and Arabic. Having been a teacher in Athens, Noli went abroad to Egypt in 1903 and worked as a teacher in Greek schools of Alexandria using the name Theophanis Mavromatis and did not espouse Albanian national sentiments. Later in his work as a teacher and in Egyptian theater Noli embraced Albanian national sentiments. Through his contacts with the Albanian expatriate movement, he became an ardent supporter of his country's nationalist movement and moved to the United States in 1906. He first worked in Buffalo, New York, in a lumber mill and then moved to Boston, Massachusetts and worked as an operator on a machine which stamped labels on cans. The Young Turks (CUP) had a hostile view of Albanian leaders such as Fan Noli who were doing political activities with the assistance of outside powers.\n\nIn Boston, some Albanian Christians were part of the Greek Orthodox Church, which was vehemently opposed to the Albanian nationalist cause. When a Greek Orthodox priest refused to perform the burial rites for Kristaq Dishnica, a member of the Orthodox Albanian community from Hudson, Massachusetts because of his nationalist activities, Noli and a group of Albanian nationalists in New England created the independent Albanian Orthodox Church. Noli, the new church's first clergyman, was ordained as a priest in 1908 by Archbishop Platon (Rozhdestvensky) of the Russian Church in the United States under questionable circumstances. Through the creation of an independent church and Noli translating liturgy into Albanian, he hoped to diminish Greek influence in the church and counter Greek irredentism. Noli was a supporter of Albanian unity transcending Muslim and Christian religions and considered it important for those faiths to be practiced in Albanian and staffed by local Albanian clergy and not foreigners.\n\nIn 1908, Noli began studying at Harvard, completing his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1912. During April 1912 Vatra (Hearth) an Albanian American diaspora organisation was founded with Noli and Faik Konica serving as its leaders and advocating for Albanian sociopolitical self determination with the Ottoman Empire. He returned to Europe to promote Albanian independence, setting foot in Albania for the first time in 1913. Noli returned to the United States during World War I, serving as head of the Vatra organization, which effectively made him leader of the Albanian diaspora. His diplomatic efforts in the United States and Geneva won the support of President Woodrow Wilson for an independent Albania and, in 1920, earned the new nation membership in the fledgling League of Nations. Though Albania had already declared its independence in 1912, membership in the League of Nations provided the country with the international recognition it had failed to obtain until then.\n\nIn 1921, Noli entered the Albanian parliament as a representative of the liberal pro-British \"People's Party\" (), the chief liberal movement in the country. The other parties were the conservative pro-Italian \"Progressive Party\" () founded by Mehdi Frashëri and led by Ahmet Zogu, and \"Popular Party\" () of Xhafer Ypi. The conservatives of Zogu would dominate the political scene. A Congress of Berat in 1922 was convened to formally lay the foundations of an Albanian Orthodox Church which consecrated Fan Noli as Bishop of Korçë and primate of all Albania while the establishment of the church was seen as important for maintaining Albanian national unity.\n\nNoli served briefly as foreign minister in the government of Xhafer Ypi. This was a period of intense turmoil in the country between the liberals and the conservatives. After a botched assassination attempt against Zogu, the conservatives revenged themselves by assassinating another popular liberal politician, Avni Rustemi. Noli's speech at Rustemi's funeral was so powerful that liberal supporters rose up against Zogu and forced him to flee to Yugoslavia (March 1924). Zogu was succeeded briefly by his father-in-law, Shefqet Vërlaci, and by the liberal politician Iliaz Vrioni; Noli was named prime minister and regent on July 17, 1924.\n\nDespite his efforts to reform the country, Noli's \"Twenty Point Program\" was unpopular, and his government was overthrown by groups loyal to Zogu on Christmas Eve of that year. Two weeks later, Zogu returned to Albania, and Noli fled to Italy under sentence of death.\n\nConscious of his fragile position, Zogu took drastic measures to consolidate his reassert in power. By the end of winter, two of the main leaders of the opposition, Bajram Curri and Luigj Gurakuqi, were assassinated, while others were imprisoned. Noli founded the \"National Revolutionary Committee\" () also known as KONARE in Vienna. The committee published the periodical called \"National Freedom\" (). Some of the early Albanian communists as Halim Xhelo or Riza Cerova would start their publishing activities here. The committee aimed in overthrowing Zogu and his cast and restoring democracy. Despite the efforts, the committee's access and influence in Albania would be limited. With the intervention of Kosta Boshnjaku, an old communist and KONARE member, the organization would receive unconditioned monetary support from the Comintern. Also Noli and Boshnjaku would make possible for exile members of the Committee for the National Defence of Kosovo (outlawed by Zogu) to get the same financial support.\nIn 1928, KONARE changed its name to \"Committee of National Liberation\" (). Meanwhile, in Albania, after three years of republican regime, the \"National Council\" declared Albania a Constitutional Monarchy, and Ahmet Zogu became king.\nNoli moved back to the United States in 1932 and formed a republican opposition to Zogu, who had since proclaimed himself \"King Zog I\". Over the next years, he continued his education, studying and later teaching Byzantine music, and continued developing and promoting the autocephalous Albanian Orthodox Church he had helped to found. While in exile, he briefly allied with King Zog, who fled Albania before the invading Italians in 1939, but was unable to set a firm anti-Axis, anti-Communist front.\n\nAfter the war, Noli established some ties with the communist government of Enver Hoxha, which seized power in 1944. He unsuccessfully urged the U.S. government to recognize the regime, but Hoxha's increasing persecution of all religions prevented Noli's church from maintaining ties with the Orthodox hierarchy in Albania. Despite the Hoxha regime's anticlerical bent, Noli's ardent Albanian nationalism brought the bishop to the attention of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation. The FBI's Boston office kept the bishop under investigation for more than a decade with no final outcome to the probe.\n\nIn 1945, Fan S. Noli received a doctor's degree (Ph. D) in history from Boston University, writing a dissertation on Skanderbeg. In the meantime, he also conducted research at Boston University Music Department, publishing a biography on Ludwig van Beethoven. He also composed a one-movement symphony called \"Scanderbeg\" in 1947. Toward the end of his life, Noli retired to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where he died in 1965. The branch of the Albanian Orthodox Church that he had governed eventually became the Albanian Archdiocese of the Orthodox Church in America.\nWriting in his diary two days after Noli's death, Albanian leader Enver Hoxha gave his analysis of Noli's work:\nFan S. Noli is depicted on the obverse of the Albanian 100 lekë banknote issued in 1996 though the banknote itself has ceased being legal tender since December 31, 2008.\n\nThe following poems were written by Fan Noli:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8858290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8858290", "title": "Farah Mendlesohn", "text": "Farah Mendlesohn\n\nFarah Jane Mendlesohn (born 27 July 1968) is a British academic historian and writer on science fiction and fantasy literature, and an active science fiction fan. \n\nMendlesohn was born in Manchester. She joined Staffordshire University in November 2016 as Prof & Assistant Dean, Law, Policing, Forensics & Sociology. She was previously employed as Professor and Head of Department in the Department of English, Communication, Film and Media at Anglia Ruskin University. Prior to that she was Reader in Science Fiction and Fantasy Literature in the Media Department at Middlesex University. She writes on the history of American religions and British and American science fiction and fantasy. She received her D. Phil. in History from the University of York in 1997. She was the editor of \"Foundation - The International Review of Science Fiction\" from 2002 to 2007. She used to be reviews editor of \"Quaker Studies\".\n\nIn 2005 she won the Hugo Award for Best Related Work for \"The Cambridge Companion to Science Fiction\", which she edited with historian Edward James. James and Mendlesohn also edited \"The Cambridge Companion to Fantasy Literature\", released in 2012, and wrote \"A Short History of Fantasy\" in 2009.\n\nHer book \"Rhetorics of Fantasy\" won the BSFA award for best non-fiction book in 2009; the book was also nominated for Hugo and World Fantasy Awards.\n\nIn 2010 she was nominated twice for the Best Related Book Hugo, for \"The Inter-Galactic Playground: A Critical Study of Children's and Teens' Science Fiction\", and for \"On Joanna Russ\".\n\nIn 2017, she was nominated for a World Fantasy Special Award—Professional for \"Children's Fantasy Literature: An Introduction\".\n\nShe is an active volunteer member of the administration for science fiction conventions. Among other events, she co-chaired ConCussion, the 2006 Eastercon, with Simon Bradshaw; and was director of program for Anticipation and the Montreal World Science Fiction Convention in 2009; She was on the convention committee of Loncon 3, the 72nd World Science Fiction Convention, until she resigned over the declaration that Jonathan Ross would be master of ceremonies for the presentation of the Hugo Awards; she remained division head for the convention's exhibits hall.\n\nIn 2017, Mendlesohn announced that her forthcoming critical study of Robert Heinlein would be published by the crowdfunding publisher Unbound, and that if the funding exceeded the target any surplus would be divided between America's Blood Centers and Con or Bust (a non-profit corporation which helps people of color to attend Science Fiction and Fantasy Conventions). the pledges had exceeded the target by 18%, but no publication date had been announced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7018514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7018514", "title": "First Strike Coins", "text": "First Strike Coins\n\nAlthough the U.S. Mint maintains that there is no widely accepted and standardized numismatic industry definition of \"first strike\" coins, First Strike coins definitely exist in the coin industry. Still, they are recent developments, having been first promoted in 2005. The most frequently promoted First Strike coins are American Gold Eagle coins, American Silver Eagle coins, American Platinum Eagle coins, and the new American Gold Buffalo coins.\n\nOne often seen definition of First Strike coins calls them \"the first coins struck from a new set of dies.\" Another calls them \"near-perfect specimens produced within the first few hundred strikings in an edition.\" The U.S. Mint's production and distribution practices challenge both definitions.\n\nThe U.S. Mint does not track the order in which it mints coins during their production and does not segregate or specifically identify the first coins minted from a set of dies. The Mint produces up to fifty percent of the projected sales of new coins weeks prior to their release.\n\nFurther, the Mint does not necessarily ship coins in the order in which they were minted, thereby making it impossible for promoters of First Strike coins to know that the coins being promoted as First Strike are actually the \"first coins struck from a new set of dies.\" The numbering on the boxes of coins shipped from the Mint are for accounting and inventory purposes only and do not reflect the order in which the coins were minted.\n\nNo U.S. Mint First Strike Program\n\nThe U.S. Mint has no First Strike program for the minting and distribution of its coins. However, the Mint sometimes does \"first strikings\" of new coins, but the \"first strikings\" are ceremonial and usually consist of only two coins, which are not set aside but are put into the regular inventory of the new coins. It is probably from these ceremonial strikings that promoters came up the idea of First Strike coins.\n\nPCGS and NGC First Strike Coins\n\nThe premier coin grading services that grade First Strike coins are Professional Coin Grading Service (PCGS) and NGC (Numismatic Guaranty Corporation). These two firms' positions on First Strike coins more clearly explain what First Strike coins really are.\n\nThe PCGS website does not discuss First Strike coins, but does post the U.S. Mint's position. However, the NGC website designates as First Strike those coins that were shipped from the U.S. Mint within the first month of their official release. PCGS says that for coins to be labeled First Strike, they must be received within thirty days of commencement of shipping (or have documentation that \"proves\" that the coins were shipped during the first thirty days of a coin's production.)\n\nNGC does not assert that the coins eligible to be labeled First Strike are among the first coins struck but are coins shipped within the first month of release. Further, NGC includes in the First Strike category \"coins of early or first release. A general term for these coins is first strikes.\"\nIn reality, the NGC position on First Strike coins offers the best definition: coins of early or first release. While First Strike coins may be from the first strikings of a new set of dies, in reality there is no way for graders or promoters of First Strike coins to know that the coins they are promoting were from the first strikes of new dies.\n\nFirst Strike Not Trademarked\n\nSome websites maintain that PCGS trademarked First Strike. However, a search of the U.S. Patent Office's website does not evidence that, and a search of the PGCS website did not find any claim of having trademarked First Strike. NGC asserts there is no trademark for First Strike and that it is a generic term in the coin industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "45684140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45684140", "title": "Hans Beck (historian)", "text": "Hans Beck (historian)\n\nHans Beck (born 22 April 1969 in Werneck) is a German-Canadian scholar in the field of Classical Studies.\n\nHans Beck received his PhD in Ancient History from Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg in 1996 with a thesis on \"Polis und Koinon. Untersuchungen zur Geschichte und Struktur der griechischen Bundesstaaten im 4. Jahrhundert v. Chr.\" In 1997 he was hired to the position of Assistant Professor at Cologne University. In 2001-02 he was Junior Fellow in residence at the Center for Hellenic Studies in Washington DC. Finishing his Habilitation in Cologne in 2003 with a work entitled \"Karriere und Hierarchie. Die römische Aristokratie und die Anfänge des cursus honorum in der mittleren Republik\", he moved on to Frankfurt University in 2004, where he held a Heisenberg Fellowship, awarded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft. In 2005 he was hired to the position of Professor of Ancient Greek History and John MacNaughon Chair of Classics at McGill University, which is his current employment. From 2007 to 2016 he was the Director of Classical Studies at McGill.\n\nBeck specializes in the history and culture of the ancient Greek world, with a thematic focus on federalism, polis governance, and notions of the local. His research also extends to the study of the political culture of ancient Rome, the exercise of aristocratic rule in antiquity, and ancient historigraphy. He contributed many entries to Brill’s New Pauly and Brill’s New Jacoby, for which he has also served on the editorial board. He is co-editor of Teiresias Suppements Online and co-director of Global Antiquities, a research network on the comparative study of ancient Greece, Rome, and China, based at McGill University. In 2015, he was awarded the Anneliese Maier Research Prize of the German Research Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25189496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25189496", "title": "Harri Moora", "text": "Harri Moora\n\nHarri Moora ( in Ehavere, Kuremaa Parish – 2 May 1968 in Tallinn) was an Estonian archaeologist. He was a recipient of the national Cross of Liberty.\n\nIn 1925, he graduated from the University of Tartu. Between 1930–1942, he was a museum director. In 1931, he studied at Baltic Institute in Stockholm and developed a scholarly working relationship with Finnish archaeologist Ella Kivikoski, who was one of his main contacts with Scandinavian archaeologists.\n\nHe worked at Tartu University during World War II but was arrested in 1944; he resumed his post at the university after the war. He worked at the Institute of History and Archaeology as the department head until his death.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1950 he was Chairman of the Estonian Learned Society and a member of the International Union of the History of Science.\n\nHe was married to Aliise Moora, an ethnologist, and they had six children, two of whom became well known academics. Tanel Moora became an archaeologist and Ann Marksoo a geographer. Harri Moora's grandsons are politician Jürgen Ligi and archeologist Priit Ligi.\n\nAfter Moora's death, two other Estonian archaeologists, Lembit Jaanits and Jüri Selirand co-authored a book in his memory, \"Studia archaeologica in memoriam Harri Moora\", published in 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "5116080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5116080", "title": "Hemline", "text": "Hemline\n\nThe hemline is the line formed by the lower edge of a garment, such as a skirt, dress or coat, measured from the floor. \n\nThe hemline is perhaps the most variable style line in fashion, changing shape and ranging in height from hip-high to floor-length. What is a fashionable style and height of hemline has varied considerably throughout the years, and has also depended on a number of factors such as the age of the wearer, the occasion for which the garment is worn and the choice of the individual.\n\nSimilar to necklines and waistlines, hemlines can be grouped by their height and shape:\nDresses and skirts are also classified in terms of their length: \n\nIn the history of Western fashion, the ordinary public clothes of upper- and middle-class women varied only between floor-length and slightly above ankle-length for many centuries before World War I. Skirts of lower-calf or mid-calf length were associated with the practical working garments of lower-class or pioneer women, while even shorter skirt lengths were seen only in certain specialized and restricted contexts (e.g. sea-bathing costumes, or outfits worn by ballerinas on stage). It was not until the mid-1910s that hemlines began to rise significantly (with many variations in height thereafter). Skirts rose all the way from floor-length to near knee-length in little more than fifteen years (from late in the decade of the 1900s to the mid-1920s). Between 1919 and 1923 they changed considerably, being almost to the floor in 1919, rising to the mid-calf in 1920, before dropping back to the ankles by 1923. 1927 saw \"flapper length\" skirts at the kneecap and higher, before shifting down again in the 1930s.\n\nFrom World War I to roughly 1970, women were under social pressure to wear skirts near to the currently fashionable length or be considered unstylish, but since the 1970s, women's options have widened, and there is no longer really only one single fashionable skirt-length at a time.\n\nAnother influence on the length of a woman's skirt is the Hemline index, which, oversimplified, states that hemlines rise and fall in sync with the stock market. The term was brought up by Wharton Business School Professor George Taylor in 1926 at a time when hemlines rose with flapper dresses during the so-called Roaring '20s. The Great Depression subsequently set in and hemlines fell to the floor once again.\n\n"}
{"id": "23494238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23494238", "title": "Heritage conservation in Hong Kong", "text": "Heritage conservation in Hong Kong\n\nThis article details the history and status of Heritage conservation in Hong Kong, as well as the role of various stakeholders.\n\nAn indication of the size of the built heritage in Hong Kong is given by a territory-wide survey conducted by the Antiquities and Monuments Office (AMO) between 1996 and 2000, which recorded some 8,800 buildings. The preservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage is also an emerging theme.\n\nIn alphabetical order:\n\nAs of 20 May 2016, there were 114 declared monuments in Hong Kong, and as of February 2013, there were 917 graded historic buildings (153 Grade I, 322 Grade II, 442 Grade III), of which 203 were owned by the Government and 714 by private bodies.\n\nGrades for historic buildings are defined as follows:\n\nA territory-wide survey on historic buildings conducted by the Antiquities and Monuments Office (AMO) between 1996 and 2000 recorded some 8,800 buildings. A more detailed survey conducted between 2002-2004 focused on 1,444 buildings. In March 2005, a seven-member Expert Panel comprising historians and members of the Hong Kong Institute of Architects, Hong Kong Institute of Planners and Hong Kong Institute of Engineers was formed by the Antiquities Advisory Board (AAB) to assess the heritage value of these buildings. The assessment was completed on March 19, 2009. As part of this work, the AMO proposed changes in the grading of historic buildings: 212 buildings to be Grade I, 366 to be Grade II, and 576 to be Grade III, and no grading for the remaining 290 ones. Current grades may be increased, decreased or removed.\n\nConservation initiatives include:\n\nThe demolition of several historic buildings has led to public protest in recent years. This included the Edinburgh Place Ferry Pier (demolition completed in early 2007) and Queen's Pier, demolished in February 2008.\n\nOther issues include:\n\nThe preservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage is an emerging theme in Hong Kong, with The Intangible Cultural Heritage Advisory Committee having held its first meeting on July 9, 2008. A territory-wide survey was carried out in 2011.\n\n\nSeveral other museums are dedicated to heritage and history. Most of them are hosted in historic buildings thematically connected with the displays. Heritage Trails have been opened to facilitate the visit of historic buildings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17136076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17136076", "title": "Ibn al-Khabbaza", "text": "Ibn al-Khabbaza\n\nAbu l-Hassan ibn al-Khabbaza (died 1239) was a kadi, historian and poet active during the reign of the Almohad Sultan Abu al-Ala Idris al-Mamun (r. 1227–32) in Seville, al-Andalus and Marrakesh, Morocco. When the last sultan of this dynasty left Iberia in 1228, Al-Khabazza joined him. Al-Khabazza was also the author of poems and a bio-bibliographic work.\n\nA few lines from his poem entitled \"The King Who Died Young\":\n\nYour life was of the order true\n\nOf Arab eloquence:\n\nThe tale was brief, the words were few;\n\nThe meaning was immense.\n\n"}
{"id": "212785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212785", "title": "Immanuel Velikovsky", "text": "Immanuel Velikovsky\n\nImmanuel Velikovsky (; ; 17 November 1979) was a Russian independent scholar who wrote a number of books reinterpreting the events of ancient history, in particular the US bestseller \"Worlds in Collision\" published in 1950. Earlier, he had played a role in the founding of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Israel, and was a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. Velikovsky's work is frequently cited as a canonical example of pseudoscience and has been used as an example of the demarcation problem.\n\nHis books use comparative mythology and ancient literary sources (including the Old Testament) to argue that Earth suffered catastrophic close contacts with other planets (principally Venus and Mars) in ancient times. In positioning Velikovsky among catastrophists including Hans Bellamy, Ignatius Donnelly, and Johann Gottlieb Radlof, the British astronomers Victor Clube and Bill Napier noted \"... Velikovsky is not so much the first of the new catastrophists ... ; he is the last in a line of traditional catastrophists going back to mediaeval times and probably earlier.\" Velikovsky argued that electromagnetic effects play an important role in celestial mechanics. He also proposed a revised chronology for ancient Egypt, Greece, Israel and other cultures of the ancient Near East. The revised chronology aimed at explaining the so-called \"dark age\" of the eastern Mediterranean (c. 1100–750 BC) and reconciling biblical history with mainstream archaeology and Egyptian chronology.\n\nIn general, Velikovsky's theories have been ignored or vigorously rejected by the academic community. Nonetheless, his books often sold well and gained an enthusiastic support in lay circles, often fuelled by claims of unfair treatment for Velikovsky by orthodox academia. The controversy surrounding his work and its reception is often referred to as \"the Velikovsky affair\".\n\nImmanuel Velikovsky was born in 1895 to a prosperous Jewish family in Vitebsk, Russia (now in Belarus). The son of Shimon (Simon Yehiel) Velikovsky (1859–1937) and Beila Grodensky, he learned several languages as a child and was sent away to study at the Medvednikov Gymnasium in Moscow, where he performed well in Russian and mathematics. He graduated with a gold medal in 1913. Velikovsky then traveled in Europe and visited Palestine before briefly studying medicine at Montpellier in France and taking premedical courses at the University of Edinburgh. He returned to Russia before the outbreak of World War I, enrolled in the University of Moscow, and received a medical degree in 1921.\n\nUpon taking his medical degree, Velikovsky left Russia for Berlin. With the financial support of his father, Velikovsky edited and published two volumes of scientific papers translated into Hebrew. The volumes were titled \"Scripta Universitatis Atque Bibliothecae Hierosolymitanarum\" (\"Writings of the Jerusalem University & Library\"). He enlisted Albert Einstein to prepare the volume dealing with mathematics and physics. This project was a cornerstone in the formation of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, as the fledgling university was able to donate copies of the \"Scripta\" to the libraries of other academic institutions in exchange for complimentary copies of publications from those institutions.\n\nIn 1923, Velikovsky married Elisheva Kramer, a young violinist.\n\nVelikovsky lived in what was then the British Mandate of Palestine from 1924 to 1939, practising medicine in the fields of general practice, psychiatry and psychoanalysis which he had studied under Sigmund Freud's pupil Wilhelm Stekel in Vienna. During this time, he had about a dozen papers published in medical and psychoanalytic journals. He was also published in Freud's \"Imago\", including a precocious analysis of Freud's own dreams.\n\nIn 1939, with the prospect of war looming, Velikovsky travelled with his family to New York City, intending to spend a sabbatical year researching for his book \"Oedipus and Akhenaton.\" The book was inspired by Freud's \"Moses and Monotheism\" and explored the possibility that Pharaoh Akhenaton was the legendary Oedipus. Freud had argued that Akhenaton, the supposedly monotheistic Egyptian pharaoh, was the source of the religious principles that Moses taught to the people of Israel in the desert. Freud's claim (and that of others before him) was based in part on the resemblance of Psalm 104 in the Bible to an Egyptian hymn discovered on the wall of the Tomb of Akhenaton's general, Ai, in Akhenaton's city of Akhetaten. To disprove Freud's claim and to prove the Exodus as such, Velikovsky sought evidence for the Exodus in Egyptian documents. One such document was the Ipuwer Papyrus, which he felt reported events similar to several of the Biblical plagues. Since conventional Egyptology dated the Ipuwer Papyrus much earlier than either the Biblical date for the Exodus (ca. 1500—1450 BCE) or the Exodus date accepted by many of those who accepted the conventional chronology of Egypt (ca. 1250 BCE), Velikovsky had to revise the conventional chronology.\nWithin weeks of his arrival in the United States, World War II began. Launching on a tangent from his original book project, Velikovsky began to develop the radical catastrophist cosmology and revised chronology theories for which he would become notorious. For the remainder of the Second World War, now as a permanent resident of New York City, he continued to research and write about his ideas, searching for a means to disseminate them to academia and the public. He privately published two small \"Scripta Academica\" pamphlets summarising his theories in 1945 (\"Theses for the Reconstruction of Ancient History\" and \"Cosmos Without Gravitation\"). He mailed copies of the latter to academic libraries and scientists, including Harvard astronomer Harlow Shapley in 1947.\n\nIn 1950, after eight publishing houses rejected the \"Worlds in Collision\" manuscript, it was finally published by Macmillan, which had a large presence in the academic textbook market. Even before its appearance, the book was enveloped by furious controversy, when \"Harper's Magazine\" published a highly positive feature on it, as did \"Reader's Digest\", with what would today be called a creationist slant. This came to the attention of Shapley, who opposed the publication of the work, having been made familiar with Velikovsky's claims through the pamphlet Velikovsky had given him. Shapley threatened to organise a textbook boycott of Macmillan for its publication of \"Worlds in Collision\", and within two months the book was transferred to Doubleday. It was by then a bestseller in the United States. In 1952, Doubleday published the first installment in Velikovsky's revised chronology, \"Ages in Chaos\", followed by the \"Earth in Upheaval\" (a geological volume) in 1955. In November 1952, Velikovsky moved from Manhattan to Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nFor most of the 1950s and early 1960s, Velikovsky was \"persona non grata\" on college and university campuses. After this period, he began to receive more requests to speak. He lectured, frequently to record crowds, at universities across North America. In 1972, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation aired a one-hour television special featuring Velikovsky and his work, and this was followed by a thirty-minute documentary by the BBC in 1973.\n\nDuring the remainder of the 1970s, Velikovsky devoted a great deal of his time and energy to rebutting his critics in academia, and he continued to tour North America and Europe to deliver lectures on his ideas. By that time, the elderly Velikovsky suffered from diabetes and intermittent depression, which his daughter said may have been exacerbated by the academic establishment's continuing rejection of his work. He died in 1979.\n\nFor many years, Velikovsky's estate was controlled by his two daughters, Shulamit Velikovsky Kogan (b. 1925), and Ruth Ruhama Velikovsky Sharon (b. 1926), who generally resisted the publication of any further material. (Exceptions include the biography \"ABA — the Glory and the Torment: The Life of Dr. Immanuel Velikovsky\", issued in 1995 and greeted with rather dubious reviews; and a Hebrew translation of another \"Ages in Chaos\" volume, \"The Dark Age of Greece\", which was published in Israel.) A volume of Velikovsky's discussions and correspondence with Albert Einstein appeared in Hebrew in Israel, translated and edited by his daughter Shulamit Velikovsky Kogan. In the late 1990s, a large portion of Velikovsky's unpublished book manuscripts, essays and correspondence became available at the Velikovsky Archive website. In 2005, Velikovsky's daughter Ruth Sharon presented his entire archive to Princeton University Library.\n\nNotwithstanding Velikovsky's dozen or so publications in medical and psychoanalytic journals in the 1920s and 1930s, the work for which he became well known was developed by him during the early 1940s, whilst living in New York City. He summarised his core ideas in an affidavit in November 1942, and in two privately published \"Scripta Academica\" pamphlets entitled \"Theses for the Reconstruction of Ancient History\" (1945) and \"Cosmos without Gravitation\" (1946).\n\nRather than have his ideas dismissed wholesale because of potential flaws in any one area, Velikovsky then chose to publish them as a series of book volumes, aimed at a lay audience, dealing separately with his proposals on ancient history, and with areas more relevant to the physical sciences. Velikovsky was a passionate Zionist, and this did steer the focus of his work, although its scope was considerably more far-reaching than this. The entire body of work could be said to stem from an attempt to solve the following problem: that to Velikovsky there appeared to be insufficient correlation in the written or archaeological records between Biblical history and what was known of the history of the area, in particular, Egypt.\n\nVelikovsky searched for common mention of events within literary records, and in the Ipuwer Papyrus he believed he had found a contemporary Egyptian account of the Plagues of Egypt. Moreover, he interpreted both accounts as descriptions of a great natural catastrophe. Velikovsky attempted to investigate the physical cause of these events, and extrapolated backwards and forwards in history from this point, cross-comparing written and mythical records from cultures on every inhabited continent, using them to attempt synchronisms of the historical records, yielding what he believed to be further periodic natural catastrophes that can be global in scale.\n\nHe arrived at a body of radical inter-disciplinary ideas, which might be summarised as:\n\nSome of Velikovsky's specific postulated catastrophes included:\n\nAs noted above, Velikovsky had conceived the broad sweep of this material by the early 1940s. However, within his lifetime, whilst he continued to research, expand and lecture upon the details of his ideas, he released only selected portions of his work to the public in book form:\n\nVelikovsky's ideas on his earlier Saturn/Mercury/Jupiter events were never published, and the available archived manuscripts are much less developed.\n\nOf all the strands of his work, Velikovsky published least on his belief that electromagnetism plays a role in orbital mechanics. Although he appears to have retreated from the propositions in his 1946 monograph \"Cosmos without Gravitation\", no such retreat is apparent in \"Stargazers and Gravediggers\". \"Cosmos without Gravitation\", which Velikovsky placed in university libraries and sent to scientists, is a probable catalyst for the hostile response of astronomers and physicists to his later claims about astronomy. However, other Velikovskian enthusiasts such as Ralph Juergens (dec.), Earl Milton (dec.), Wal Thornhill, and Donald E. Scott have claimed that stars are powered not by internal nuclear fusion, but by galactic-scale electrical discharge currents. Such ideas do not find support in the conventional literature and are rejected as pseudoscience by the scientific community.\n\nVelikovsky argued that the conventional chronology of the Near East and classical world, based upon Egyptian Sothic dating and the king lists of Manetho, was wholly flawed. This was the reason for the apparent absence of correlation between the Biblical account and those of neighbouring cultures, and also the cause of the enigmatic \"Dark Ages\" in Greece and elsewhere. Velikovsky shifted several chronologies and dynasties from the Egyptian Old Kingdom to Ptolemaic times by centuries (a scheme he called the \"Revised Chronology\"), placing The Exodus contemporary with the fall of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt. He proposed numerous other synchronisms stretching up to the time of Alexander the Great. He argued that these eliminate phantom \"Dark Ages\", and vindicate the biblical accounts of history and those recorded by Herodotus.\n\nThese ideas were first put forward briefly in his \"Theses for the Reconstruction of Ancient History\", but \"Ages in Chaos\" was his first full-length work on the subject. This was followed by \"Oedipus and Akhenaton\", \"Peoples of the Sea\" and \"Rameses II and His Time\", and two further works that were unpublished at the time of his death but that are now available online at the Velikovsky Archive: \"The Assyrian Conquest\" and \"The Dark Ages of Greece\".\n\nThough rejected by mainstream historians, these ideas have been developed by other historians such as David Rohl and Peter James, who have also attempted their own revised chronologies.\n\nVelikovsky inspired numerous followers during the 1960s and 1970s.\nAlfred de Grazia dedicated a 1963 issue of his journal, \"American Behavioral Scientist\", to Velikovsky, which was published in an expanded version as a book, \"The Velikovsky Affair — Scientism Versus Science,\" in 1966.\n\"The Skeptical Inquirer\", in a review of a later book by de Grazia, \"Cosmic Heretics\" (1984), suggests that de Grazia's efforts may be responsible for Velikovsky's continuing notability during the 1970s.\n\nThe Society for Interdisciplinary Studies (SIS) was \"formed in 1974 in response to the growing interest in the works of modern catastrophists, notably the highly controversial Dr. Immanuel Velikovsky\". The Institute for the Study of Interdisciplinary Sciences (ISIS) is a 1985 spinoff from the SIS founded under the directorship of David Rohl, who had come to reject Velikovsky's Revised Chronology in favour of his own \"New Chronology\".\n\n\"\" was founded in 1975 explicitly \"to deal with Velikovsky's work\". Ten issues of \"\" appeared from 1972 to 1975.\nThe controversy surrounding Velikovsky peaked in the mid 1970s and public interest declined in the 1980s, and\nby 1984, erstwhile Velikovskyist C. Leroy Ellenberger had become a vocal critic of Velikovskian catastrophism. Some Velikovskyist publications and authors such as David Talbott remain active into the 2000s.\n\nVelikovsky's ideas have been almost entirely rejected by mainstream academia (often vociferously so) and his work is generally regarded as erroneous in all its detailed conclusions. Moreover, scholars view his unorthodox methodology (for example, using comparative mythology to derive scenarios in celestial mechanics) as an unacceptable way to arrive at conclusions. Stephen Jay Gould offered a synopsis of the mainstream response to Velikovsky, writing, \"Velikovsky is neither crank nor charlatan—although, to state my opinion and to quote one of my colleagues, he is at least gloriously wrong ... Velikovsky would rebuild the science of celestial mechanics to save the literal accuracy of ancient legends.\"\n\nVelikovsky's bestselling, and as a consequence most criticized, book is \"Worlds in Collision\". Astronomer Harlow Shapley, along with others such as Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin, were highly critical of Macmillan's decision to publish the work. The fundamental criticism against this book from the astronomy community was that its celestial mechanics were physically impossible, requiring planetary orbits that do not conform with the laws of conservation of energy and conservation of angular momentum.\n\nVelikovsky relates in his book \"Stargazers & Gravediggers\" how he tried to protect himself from criticism of his celestial mechanics by removing the original appendix on the subject from \"Worlds in Collision\", hoping that the merit of his ideas would be evaluated on the basis of his comparative mythology and use of literary sources alone. However, this strategy did not protect him: the appendix was an expanded version of the \"Cosmos Without Gravitation\" monograph, which he had already distributed to Shapley and others in the late 1940s—and they had regarded the physics within it as absurd.\n\nBy 1974, the controversy surrounding Velikovsky's work had permeated US society to the point where the American Association for the Advancement of Science felt obliged to address the situation, as they had previously done in relation to UFOs, and devoted a scientific session to Velikovsky featuring (among others) Velikovsky himself and Professor Carl Sagan. Sagan gave a critique of Velikovsky's ideas (the book version of Sagan's critique is much longer than that presented in the talk; see below). His criticisms are available in \"Scientists Confront Velikovsky\" and as a corrected and revised version in the book \"\". Sagan's arguments were aimed at a popular audience and he did not remain to debate Velikovsky in person, facts that were used by Velikovsky's followers to attempt to discredit his analysis. Sagan rebutted these charges and further attacked Velikovsky's ideas in his PBS television series \"\", though not without reprimanding scientists who had attempted to suppress Velikovsky's ideas. \n\nIt was not until the 1980s that a very detailed critique of \"Worlds in Collision\" was made in terms of its use of mythical and literary sources when Bob Forrest published a highly critical examination of them (see below). Earlier in 1974, James Fitton published a brief critique of Velikovsky's interpretation of myth (ignored by Velikovsky and his defenders) whose indictment began: \"In at least three important ways Velikovsky's use of mythology is unsound. The first of these is his proclivity to treat all myths as having independent value; the second is the tendency to treat only such material as is consistent with his thesis; and the third is his very unsystematic method.\" A short analysis of the position of arguments in the late 20th century is given by Dr Velikovsky's ex-associate, and \"Kronos\" editor, C. Leroy Ellenberger, in his \"A Lesson from Velikovsky\".\n\nMore recently, the absence of supporting material in ice-core studies (such as the Greenland Dye-3 and Vostok cores) has removed any basis for the proposition of a global catastrophe of the proposed dimension within the later Holocene period. However, tree-ring expert Mike Baillie would give credit to Velikovsky after disallowing the impossible aspects of \"Worlds in Collision\": \"However, I would not disagree with \"all\" aspects of Velikovsky's work. Velikovsky was almost certainly correct in his assertion that ancient texts hold clues to catastrophic events in the relatively recent past, within the span of human civilization, which involve the effects of comets, meteorites and cometary dust ... But fundamentally, Velikovsky did not understand anything about comets ... He did not know about the hazard posed by relatively small objects ... This failure to recognize the power of comets and asteroids means that it is reasonable to go back to Velikovsky and delete all the physically impossible text about Venus and Mars passing close to the earth ... In other words, we can get down to his main thesis, which is that the Earth experienced dramatic events from heavenly bodies particularly in the second millennium BC.\"\n\nVelikovsky's revised chronology has been rejected by nearly all mainstream historians and Egyptologists. It was claimed, starting with early reviewers, that Velikovsky's usage of material for proof is often very selective. In 1965 the leading cuneiformist Abraham Sachs, in a forum at Brown University, discredited Velikovsky's use of Mesopotamian cuneiform sources. Velikovsky was never able to refute Sachs' attack. In 1978, following the much-postponed publication of further volumes in Velikovsky's \"Ages in Chaos\" series, the United Kingdom-based Society for Interdisciplinary Studies organised a conference in Glasgow specifically to debate the revised chronology. The ultimate conclusion of this work, by scholars including Peter James, John Bimson, Geoffrey Gammonn, and David Rohl, was that the Revised Chronology was untenable. The SIS has continued to publish updates of this ongoing discussion, in particular the work of historian Emmet Sweeney.\n\nWhile James credits Velikovsky with \"point[ing] the way to a solution by challenging Egyptian chronology\", he severely criticised the contents of Velikovsky's chronology as \"disastrously extreme\", producing \"a rash of new problems far more severe than those it hoped to solve\" and claiming that \"Velikovsky understood little of archaeology and nothing of stratigraphy.\"\n\nBauer accuses Velikovsky of dogmatically asserting interpretations which are at best possible, and gives several examples from \"Ages in Chaos\".\n\nSuch was the hostility directed against Velikovsky from some quarters (particularly the original campaign led by Harlow Shapley), that some commentators have made an analysis of the conflict itself. Among these was a study by \"American Behavioral Scientist\" magazine, eventually published in book form as \"The Velikovsky Affair — Scientism Versus Science.\" This framed the discussion in terms of how academic disciplines reacted to ideas from workers from outside their field, claiming that there was an academic aversion to permitting people to cross inter-disciplinary boundaries. More recently, James Gilbert, professor of history at University of Maryland, challenged this traditional version with an account that focused on the intellectual rivalry between Velikovsky's ally Horace Kallen and Harlow Shapley. Earlier, Henry Bauer had challenged the view that the Velikovsky Affair illustrated the resistance of scientists to new ideas by pointing out \"the nature and validity of Velikovsky's claims must be considered before one decides that the Affair can illuminate the reception of new ideas in science ...\" and, on the same basis, Keith Dixon contended that the treatment of the case by sociologists was an example of a broader unhealthy tendency in sociology to explain all opinions as ideologically motivated without considering their possible rational basis.\n\nThe scientific press, in general, denied Velikovsky a forum to rebut his critics. Velikovsky claimed that this made him a \"suppressed genius\", and he likened himself to the 16th Century heretical friar Giordano Bruno, who was burnt at the stake for his beliefs.\n\nThe controversy created by Velikovsky's publications may have helped revive the catastrophist movement in the second half of the 20th century; however, it is also held by some working in the field that progress has actually been retarded by the negative aspects of the so-called Velikovsky Affair.\n\n\n\n\nVelikovsky works available online\n\nSites about Velikovsky\n\nOrganizations sympathetic to Velikovsky's work\n\nCritiques of Velikovsky\n"}
{"id": "2942662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2942662", "title": "Jacques Ancel", "text": "Jacques Ancel\n\nJacques Ancel (July 22, 1879 in Parmain, Val-d'Oise – 1943) was a French geographer and geopolitician. He is author of several books, including \"Peoples and Nations of Balkans: political geography\" (1926) and \"Geopolitics\" (1936).\n\nAfter studying history and geography and professing as a teacher, Ancel was drafted to fight in World War I. Wounded three times, he was detached to the Headquarters of the French Army's Oriental Corps (fighting in the Ottoman Empire and the Balkans). After the war, he helped mediate the tense relations between Yugoslavia and Bulgaria. In 1930, Ancel obtained his doctorate with the thesis \"La Macédoine, étude de colonisation contemporaine\" (\"Macedonia, a study in contemporary colonization\").\n\nHe taught at the University of Paris' Institute of Higher International Studies, and was a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy and of other scientific forums. He was a knight of the Légion d'honneur.\n\n"}
{"id": "5407565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5407565", "title": "Jonathan Israel", "text": "Jonathan Israel\n\nJonathan Irvine Israel (born 26 January 1946) is a British writer and academic specialising in Dutch history, the Age of Enlightenment and European Jews. Israel was appointed as Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the School of Historical Studies at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, in January 2001. He was previously Professor of Dutch History and Institutions at the University College London.\n\nIn recent years, Israel has focused his attention on a multi-volume history of the Age of Enlightenment. He contrasts two camps. The \"radical Enlightenment\" founded on a rationalist materialism first articulated by Spinoza. Standing in opposition was a \"moderate Enlightenment\" which he sees as profoundly weakened by its belief in God. In Israel’s highly controversial interpretation, the radical Enlightenment is the main source of the modern idea of freedom. He contends that the moderate Enlightenment, including Locke, Voltaire, and Montesquieu, made no real contribution to the campaign against superstition and ignorance.\n\nIsrael's career until 2001 unfolded in UK academia. He did his undergraduate studies at Queens' College, Cambridge and his graduate work at University of Oxford and the El Colegio de México, Mexico City, receiving his D.Phil. from Oxford in 1972. He was named Sir James Knott Research Fellow at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne in 1970, and in 1972 he moved to the University of Hull where he was first an assistant lecturer then a lecturer in Early Modern Europe. In 1974 he became a lecturer in Early Modern European History at University College London, progressing to become a reader in Modern History in 1981, then to become Professor of Dutch History and Institutions in 1984. In January 2001, Israel became a professor of modern European history in the School of Historical Studies at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, USA. In 2007, the 375th anniversary of the birth of Spinoza, he held the Spinoza Chair of Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam.\n\nIsrael has defined what he considers to be the \"Radical Enlightenment,\" arguing it originated with Spinoza. He argues in great detail that Spinoza \"and Spinozism were in fact the intellectual backbone of the European Radical Enlightenment everywhere, not only in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Italy, and Scandinavia but also Britain and Ireland\", and that the Radical Enlightenment, leaning towards religious skepticism and republican government, leads on to the modern liberal-democratic state.\n\nIsrael is sharply critical of Jean-Paul Marat and Maximilien de Robespierre for repudiating the true values of the Radical Enlightenment and grossly distorting the French Revolution. He argues, \"Jacobin ideology and culture under Robespierre was an obsessive Rousseauiste moral Puritanism steeped in authoritarianism, anti-intellectualism, and xenophobia, \"and it repudiated free expression, basic human rights, and democracy.\"\n\nHe was made a Fellow of the British Academy in 1992, Corresponding Fellow of the Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen (Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences) in 1994, won the American Historical Association’s Leo Gershoy Award in 2001, and was made Knight of the Order of the Netherlands Lion in 2004. In 2008, he won the Dr A.H. Heineken Prize for history, medicine, environmental studies and cognitive science.\n\nIn 2010 he was awarded the Benjamin Franklin Medal by the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA) for his outstanding contribution to Enlightenment scholarship.\n\nIn response to Israel's series on the Enlightenment, writes Johnson Kent Wright, there appeared ...\n\nA Marxist defense of Israel against one critic (Professor Samuel Moyn) appeared in 2010 on the World Socialist Web Site, particularly in the article \"The Nation, Jonathan Israel, and the Enlightenment\". The two defenders also criticize Israel, saying:\n\nIn 2004, in response to a Historisch Nieuwsblad survey, which asked members of the Royal Netherlands Historical Society what were the classic works about Dutch history, \"The Dutch Republic: Its Rise, Greatness and Fall, 1477–1806\" came in second place.\n\n(\"Radical Enlightenment\" (2001), \"Enlightenment Contested\" (2006), and \"Democratic Enlightenment\" (2011) constitute a monumental trilogy on the history of the Radical Enlightenment and the intellectual origins of modern democracy. \"A Revolution of the Mind\" (2009) is a shorter work on the same theme.) The list above is complete .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1013634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1013634", "title": "Jordanian annexation of the West Bank", "text": "Jordanian annexation of the West Bank\n\nThe Jordanian annexation of the West Bank was the occupation and consequent annexation of the West Bank (including East Jerusalem) by Jordan (formerly Transjordan) in the aftermath of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. During the war, Jordan's Arab Legion conquered the Old City of Jerusalem and took control of territory on the western side of the Jordan River, including the cities of Jericho, Bethlehem, Hebron and Nablus. At the end of hostilities, Jordan was in complete control of the West Bank.\n\nFollowing the December 1948 Jericho Conference, and the 1949 renaming of the country from Transjordan to Jordan, the West Bank was formally annexed on 24 April 1950.\n\nThe annexation was widely considered as illegal and void by the international community. A month afterwards, the Arab League declared that they viewed the area \"annexed by Jordan as a trust in its hands until the Palestine case is fully solved in the interests of its inhabitants.\" Recognition of Jordan's declaration of annexation was only granted by the United Kingdom, Iraq and Pakistan.\n\nWhen Jordan transferred its full citizenship rights to the residents of the West Bank, the annexation more than doubled the population of Jordan. The naturalized Palestinians enjoyed equal opportunities in all sectors of the state without discrimination, and they were given half of the seats of the Jordanian parliament.\n\nAfter Jordan lost the West Bank to Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War, the Palestinians there remained Jordanian citizens until Jordan decided to renounce claims and sever administrative ties with the territory in 1988.\n\nPrior to hostilities in 1948, Palestine (modern-day West Bank, Gaza Strip and Israel) had been under the British Mandate for Palestine (legal instrument) control of the British Empire, which captured it from the Ottomans in 1917. The British, as custodians of the land, implemented the land tenure laws in Palestine, which it had inherited from the Ottoman (as defined in the Ottoman Land Code of 1858), applying these laws to both Arab and Jewish tenants, legal or otherwise. Toward the expiration of the British Mandate, Arabs aspired for independence and self-determination, as did the Jews of the country.\n\nFollowing Israel's declaration of independence on 14 May 1948, the Jordanian Arab Legion, under the leadership of Sir John Bagot Glubb, known as Glubb Pasha, was ordered to enter Palestine and secure the UN designated Arab area. After the invasion, Jordan began making moves to perpetuate the Jordanian rule over the Arab part of Palestine. King Abdullah appointed governors on his behalf in the Arab cities of Ramallah, Hebron, Nablus, Bethlehem, Ramla and the Arab controlled part of Jerusalem, that were captured by Legion in the invasion. These governors were mostly Palestinians (including Aref al-Aref, Ibrahim Hashem and Ahmed Hilmi Pasha), and the Jordanians described them as \"military\" governors, so it wouldn't anger the other Arab states, who opposed Jordan's plans to incorporate the Arab part of Palestine into the kingdom. The king made other smaller moves towards the annexation of the West Bank: He ordered Palestinian policemen to wear the uniforms of the Jordanian police and its symbols; he instituted the use of Jordanian postage stamps instead of the British ones; Palestinian municipalities were not allowed to collect taxes and issue licenses; the radio of Ramallah called the locals to disobey the instructions of pro-Husseini officials and obey those of the Jordanian-backed governors.\n\nThe December 1948 Jericho Conference, a meeting of prominent Palestinian leaders and King Abdullah I, voted in favor of annexation into what was then Transjordan.\n\nBy the end of the war, Jordanian forces had control over the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. On 3 April 1949, Israel and Jordan signed an armistice agreement. The main points included:\n\nThe remainder of the area designated as part of an Arab state under the UN Partition Plan was partly occupied by Egypt (Gaza Strip), partly occupied and annexed by Israel (West Negev, West Galilee, Jaffa). The intended international enclave of Jerusalem was divided between Israel and Jordan. The Jordanians immediately expelled all the Jewish residents of East Jerusalem. All but one of the 35 synagogues in the Old City were destroyed over the course of the next 19 years, either razed or used as stables and chicken coops. Many other historic and religiously significant buildings were replaced by modern structures. The ancient Jewish cemetery on Mount of Olives was desecrated, and the tombstones were used for construction, paving roads and lining latrines; the highway to the Intercontinental Hotel was built on top of the site.\n\nIn March 1948, the British Cabinet had agreed that the civil and military authorities in Palestine should make no effort to oppose the setting up of a Jewish State or a move into Palestine from Transjordan.\n\nThe United States, together with the United Kingdom favoured the annexation by Transjordan. The UK preferred to permit King Abdullah to annex the territory at the earliest date, while the United States preferred to wait until after the conclusion of the Palestine Conciliation Commission brokered negotiations.\n\nJordan formally annexed the West Bank on 24 April 1950, giving all residents automatic Jordanian citizenship. West Bank residents had already received the right to claim Jordanian citizenship in December 1949.\n\nJordan's annexation was widely regarded as illegal and void by the Arab League and others. Elihu Lauterpacht described it as a move that \"entirely lacked legal justification.\" The annexation formed part of Jordan's \"Greater Syria Plan\" expansionist policy, and in response, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon and Syria joined Egypt in demanding Jordan's expulsion from the Arab League. A motion to expel Jordan from the League was prevented by the dissenting votes of Yemen and Iraq. On 12 June 1950, the Arab League declared the annexation was a temporary, practical measure and that Jordan was holding the territory as a \"trustee\" pending a future settlement. On 27 July 1953, King Hussein of Jordan announced that East Jerusalem was \"the alternative capital of the Hashemite Kingdom\" and would form an \"integral and inseparable part\" of Jordan. In an address to parliament in Jerusalem in 1960, Hussein called the city the \"second capital of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan\".\n\nOnly the United Kingdom formally recognized the annexation of the West Bank, \"de facto\" in the case of East Jerusalem. The United States Department of State also recognized this extension of Jordanian sovereignty. Pakistan is often claimed to have recognized Jordan's annexation too, but this is dubious.\n\nIn 1950, the British extended formal recognition to the union between the Hashemite Kingdom and that part of Palestine under Jordanian occupation and control - with the exception of Jerusalem. The British government stated that it regarded the provisions of the Anglo-Jordan Treaty of Alliance of 1948 as applicable to all the territory included in the union. Despite Arab League opposition, the inhabitants of the West Bank became citizens of Jordan.\n\nTensions continued between Jordan and Israel through the early 1950s, with Palestinian guerrillas and Israeli commandos crossing the Green Line. Abdullah I of Jordan, who had become Emir of Transjordan in 1921 and King in 1923, was assassinated in 1951 during a visit to the Al-Aqsa Mosque on the Temple Mount in East Jerusalem by a Palestinian gunman following rumours that he was discussing a peace treaty with Israel. The trial found that this assassination had been planned by Colonel Abdullah el-Tell, ex-military governor of Jerusalem, and Musa Abdullah Husseini. He was succeeded by his grandson King Hussein of Jordan once he came of age in 1953, after his father Talal's brief reign.\n\nUnlike any other Arab country to which they fled after the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Palestinian refugees in the West Bank (and on the East Bank) were given Jordanian citizenship on the same basis as existing residents. However, many of the refugees continued to live in camps and relied on UNRWA assistance for sustenance. Palestinian refugees constituted more than a third of the kingdom's population of 1.5 million.\n\nIn the Jordanian parliament, the West and East Banks received 30 seats each, having roughly equal populations. The first elections were held on 11 April 1950. Although the West Bank had not yet been annexed, its residents were permitted to vote. The last Jordanian elections in which West Bank residents would vote were those of April 1967, but their parliamentary representatives would continue in office until 1988, when West Bank seats were finally abolished. Palestinians enjoyed equal opportunities in all sectors of the state without discrimination.\n\nAgriculture remained the primary activity of the territory. The West Bank, despite its smaller area, contained half of Jordan's agricultural land. In 1966, 43% of the labor force of 55,000 worked in agriculture, and 2,300 km² were under cultivation. (Numbers that have fallen considerably since.) In 1965, 15,000 workers were employed in industry, producing 7% of the GNP. This number fell after the 1967 war, and would not be surpassed until 1983. The tourism industry also played an important role. 26 branches of 8 Arab banks were present. The Jordanian dinar became legal tender, and remains so there today.\n\nThere was a significant flow of population from the West Bank to East Bank, in particular to the capital, Amman.\n\nClauses in the 3 April 1949 Armistice Agreements specified that Israelis would have access to the religious sites in East Jerusalem. However, Jordan refused to implement this clause arguing that Israel's refusal to permit the return of Palestinians to their homes in West Jerusalem voided that clause in the agreement. Tourists entering East Jerusalem had to present baptismal certificates or other proof they were not Jewish.\n\nThe special committee that was to make arrangements for visits to holy places was never formed and Israelis, irrespective of religion, were barred from entering the Old City and other holy sites. The Jewish Quarter and its ancient synagogues were systematically destroyed such as the Hurva Synagogue and gravestones from the Jewish Cemetery on the Mount of Olives were used to build latrines for Jordanian army barracks.\n\nBy the end of the Six-Day War, the formerly Jordanian-controlled West Bank with its one million Palestinian population had come under Israeli military occupation. About 300,000 Palestinian refugees fled to Jordan. After 1967, all religious groups were granted administration over their own holy sites, while administration of the Temple Mount – sacred to Jews, Christians, and Muslims – remained in the hands of the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf.\n\nJordanian disengagement from the West Bank (in Arabic: قرار فك الارتباط), in which Jordan surrendered the claim to sovereignty over the West Bank, took place on 31 July 1988. On 31 July 1988, Jordan renounced its claims to the West Bank (with the exception of guardianship over the Muslim and Christian holy sites in Jerusalem), and recognized the Palestine Liberation Organization as \"the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people.\"\n\nThe West Bank territories which were conquered by Jordan in 1948 during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War after the British mandate ended on that territory and Israel declared independent, were annexed to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on 24 April 1950, and all the Arab residents were given Jordanian citizenship. The annexation of these territories was recognized only by Pakistan, Iraq and the United Kingdom.\n\nDuring the Six-Day War in 1967, Israel captured and occupied among others these territories from Jordan, although Jordan, despite not continuing to be the actual sovereign, continued to pay salaries and pensions to civil servants and to provide services to endowments and educational affairs.\n\nIn 1972, King Hussein conceived a plan to establish a united Arab federation which would include the West Bank and Jordan. This proposal never came to be.\n\nIn 1974, the Arab League decided to recognize the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) as the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. The decision forced King Hussein to relinquish his claim to speak for the Palestinian people during peace negotiations and to recognize an independent Palestinian state that is independent of Jordan.\n\nOn 28 July 1988, King Hussein announced the cessation of a $1.3 billion development program for the West Bank explaining that the aim of this move is to allow the PLO to take more responsibility for these territories. Two days later the king dissolved Jordan's lower house of parliament, half of whose members represented constituencies in the Israeli-occupied West Bank.\n\nOn 31 July 1988, King Hussein announced the severance of all legal and administrative ties with the West Bank, except for the Jordanian sponsorship of the Muslim and Christian holy sites in Jerusalem, and recognised the PLO's claim to the State of Palestine. In his speech to the nation held on that day he announced his decision and explained that this decision was made with the aim of helping the Palestinian people establishing their own independent state.\n\nThe 1993 Oslo Accords between the PLO and Israel \"opened the road for Jordan to proceed on its own negotiating track with Israel.\" The Washington Declaration was initialled one day after the Oslo Accords were signed. \"On July 25, 1994, King Hussein met with Israeli Prime Minister Rabin in the Rose Garden of the White House, where they signed the Washington Declaration, formally ending the 46-year state of war between Jordan and Israel.\" Finally, on 26 October 1994, Jordan signed the Israel–Jordan peace treaty, which normalized relations between the two countries and resolved territorial disputes between them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40869398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40869398", "title": "Joseph Octave Delepierre", "text": "Joseph Octave Delepierre\n\nJoseph Octave Delepierre (12 March 1802 – 18 August 1879) was a Belgian lawyer, archivist, diplomat, author and antiquary. He spent his later life in the United Kingdom, and is best known for his studies of macaronic language and literature.\nHe was born at Bruges in Belgium, 12 March 1802. His father was Joseph Delepierre, for many years receveur-général of the province of West Flanders; his mother was of the Penaranda family. Illiterate at age 12, he qualified for the University of Ghent. Having obtained the degree of doctor of laws, he became an avocat, and was appointed archivist of West Flanders, in Bruges.\n\nA collector of books and works of art, Delepierre's reputation as a local antiquary attracted visitors from abroad. When Albert, Prince Consort was in Bruges in 1839, Delepierre was his guide. But he became dissatisfied with his official position, after an application for promotion was disregarded. He had made the acquaintance of Sylvain Van de Weyer, who induced him in 1843 to come to London, in August 1849 appointed him a secretary of legation, and obtained for him the post of Belgian consul. He made his way in society, and held Sunday evening receptions.\n\nDelepierre was a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, and a member of other English, Belgian, and French societies. He was decorated with several orders of knighthood. For over 35 years he acted as Belgian secretary of legation, and, until 1877, when he resigned, he was consul-general for Belgium in London.\n\nDelepierre died 18 August 1879, aged 77, at the house of his son-in-law, Nicholas Trübner, 29 Upper Hamilton Terrace, London, and was buried in Highgate cemetery on 22 August.\n\nLiving in England, Delepierre wrote an account in 1849 of a collection of early French farces and morality plays in the British Museum. In 1852 he produced \"Macaronéana\", followed by \"Macaronéana Andra\" in 1862. These publications formed an encyclopædia of information on macaronic literature.\n\nWhen the Duc d'Aumale, Van de Weyer, Richard Monckton Milnes, and others founded the Philobiblon Society in 1853 (then limited to 36 members), Delepierre was appointed one of the honorary secretaries. He contributed 22 papers to its privately printed \"Miscellanies\", among them being contributions on centos, on the literary history of lunatics, on parody, and on visions of hell; these he enlarged and republished separately. His major writings were produced during his residence in England. He printed a history of Flemish literature in 1860; the first volume, in 1863, of a collection (completed in 1876) of his friend Van de Weyer's writings. He also contributed to the \"Annales de la Société d'Emulation de Bruges\" (1839–43), \"Messager des Sciences Historiques\" (1833–79), \"Le Bibliophile Belge\" (1845–65), \"St. James's Magazine\", and other journals.\n\nThe following is a complete list of Delepierre's works before he moved to the United Kingdom:\n\n\nDelepierre wrote nothing between 1843 and 1845, when he published his first English book, \"Old Flanders\".\n\n\nDelepierre was twice married, first to Emily, the sister of Robert Napier, 1st Baron Napier of Magdala, by whom he had two daughters. One of these died young, the other married Nicholas Trübner. His second wife, who survived him, was the widow of Captain Jasper Trowce.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18265550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18265550", "title": "Juraj Marušiak", "text": "Juraj Marušiak\n\nJuraj Marusiak PhD. (in Slovak: Juraj Marušiak, born 10 July 1970, Bratislava) is a Slovak political scientist, historian, journalist and translator of a mixed Slovak-Polish descent. He represents a moderate social- democratic stream in Slovak political thinking.\n\nMarušiak graduated from the Faculty of Arts of Comenius University in Bratislava (1994). Since 1996 he has worked for the Institute of Political Science of SAS (the Slovak Academy of Science) where he obtained a PhD in 2003. From 2000 until 2009 he was a Scientific Secretary of this Institute and since 2009 he has been head of the Scientific Board. From 2004 to 2010 he was chairman of the Society for Central and Eastern Europe.. Since 2013 he is a member of the Presidium of Slovak Academy of Sciences. \n\n\"Slovenská literatúra a moc v druhej polovici 50.rokov\" (Slovak Literature and Political Power in 1950s), Brno, 2001, 181 pp.\n\nHis professional articles are mostly about problems of the Central and Eastern Europe in 20th and 21st centuries. \n\n"}
{"id": "50994625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50994625", "title": "Knuckle mnemonic", "text": "Knuckle mnemonic\n\nThe knuckle mnemonic is a mnemonic device for remembering the number of days in the months of the Julian and Gregorian calendars.\n\nOne form of the mnemonic is done by counting on the knuckles of one's hand to remember the numbers of days of the months.\nCount knuckles as 31 days, depressions between knuckles as 30 (or 28/29) days. Start with the little finger knuckle as January, and count one finger or depression at a time towards the index finger knuckle (July), saying the months while doing so. Then return to the little finger knuckle (now August) and continue for the remaining months.\n\nOne variant of this approach differs after reaching the index finger knuckle (July): instead of wrapping around back to the little finger, some people reverse direction and continue from the index finger knuckle (counting it for both July and August) and ending on the ring finger knuckle.\n\nStill others use two hands (as shown in the diagram, right): starting with the little finger knuckle of the left hand, proceed to the left index finger knuckle, then (swapping hands) jump to the right fist's index finger knuckle for August, finishing on the knuckle of the right ring finger (December).\n\n"}
{"id": "858708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858708", "title": "LVMH", "text": "LVMH\n\nLVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE (), also known as LVMH, is a French multinational luxury goods conglomerate headquartered in Paris. The company was formed in 1987 under the merger of fashion house Louis Vuitton with Moët Hennessy, a company formed after the 1971 merger between the champagne producer Moët & Chandon and Hennessy, the cognac manufacturer. It controls around 60 subsidiaries that each manage a small number of prestigious brands. The subsidiaries are often managed independently. The oldest of the LVMH brands is wine producer Château d'Yquem, which dates its origins back to 1593.\n\nChristian Dior SE is the main holding company of LVMH, owning 40.9% of its shares, and 59.01% of its voting rights. Bernard Arnault, majority shareholder of Dior, is Chairman and CEO of both companies. In 2017, Arnault purchased all the remaining Christian Dior shares in a reported $13.1 billion buy out. The Dapifer reports that LVMH will gain ownership of Christian Dior haute couture, leather, both men’s and women’s ready-to-wear, and footwear lines.\n\nArnault's successful integration of various famous aspirational brands into a single group has inspired other luxury companies into doing the same. Thus, the French conglomerate Kering (formerly named PPR) and the Swiss-based Richemont have also created extended portfolios of luxury brands. The company is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index.\n\nCo-founder Alain Chevalier died 1 November 2018, aged 87.\n\nLVMH is headquartered in the 8th arrondissement of Paris, France. The company is listed on the Euronext Paris exchange, and is a constituent of the CAC 40 index. As of 2010, the group had revenues of €20.3 billion with a net income of just over €3 billion. By 29 February 2016, the company had a share value of 78,126 million euros, distributed in 506,980,299 shares.\nIn 2013, with revenue of $21,7 billion, LVMH was ranked first luxury goods company in Deloitte's \"Global Powers of Luxury Goods\" report. The group currently employs more than 83,000 people. Thirty percent of LVMH's staff work in France. LVMH operates over 2,400 stores worldwide. Its current business plan aims to tightly control the brands it manages in order to maintain and heighten the perception of luxury relating to their products. For example, Louis Vuitton products are sold only through Louis Vuitton boutiques found in upmarket locations in wealthy cities or in concessions in other luxury goods shops (such as Harrods in London).\n\nAt the end of 2017, the only declared major shareholder in LVMH was Arnault Family Group, the holding company of Bernard Arnault. The group's control amounted to 46.84% of LVMH's stock and 63.13% of its voting rights.\n\nLVMH holds 66% of the drinks division, Moët Hennessy, with the remaining 34% held by Diageo.\n\nIn January 2018, LVMH announced record sales of 42.6 billion Euros in 2017, up 13% over the previous year, as all divisions turned in strong performances. In the same year, the net profit increased 29%.\n\nA partial list including some of LVMH's best-known brands and subsidiaries:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMake Up For Ever was established in 1984. and was acquired by LVMH in 1999.\n\nOn 7 March 2011, LVMH announced the acquisition of the 50.4% family-owned shares of the Italian jeweller Bulgari and the intention to make a tender offer for the rest, which was publicly owned. The transaction was about $5.2 billion.\nIn 2011, LVMH invested $640 million in establishing LCapitalAsia.\n\nOn 7 March 2013, \"National Business Daily\" reported that mid-priced clothing brand QDA would open stores with the assistance of LVMH’s private equity LCapitalAsia and the Chinese apparel company Xin Hee Co., Ltd. in Beijing. In 2011, LVMH invested $640 million in establishing LCapitalAsia. LVMH sales \"decreased by about 10 percent from in 2011\" in China, and LVMH stopped \"opening stores in second and third-tier cities in mainland China\". Xue Shengwen, a senior researcher at ChinaVenture, said the developing trend of the market is to take advantage of more acceptable prices.\n\nIn February 2014, LVMH entered into a joint venture with the Italian fashion brand Marco De Vincenzo, taking a minority 45% stake in the firm.\n\nLaunched in 2011, Journées Particulières allow visitors to enter scores of ateliers, studios, caves and mansions within the LVMH, with no admission charge. From discovering the secrets of France’s most famous shoemaker, Berluti, and perusing the Salons de Hotel Baudard de Saint James of jeweler Chaumet; or a walk through the private salons of the haute couture workshops of Christian Dior or a stroll in the vineyards of LVMH’s most venerable marque, Domaine des Lambrays, founded in 1365. “For the first edition we were not at all certain that the public would come. I speak about that with some emotion. I remember coming along avenue Montaigne at 8AM that first morning and seeing hundreds of people, families, elderly ladies and little kids waiting for the doors of avenue Montaigne 30 to open and I thought we are going to write a beautiful page in history,” said Arnault, referring to Christian Dior’s headquarters. Staged every two years, this month’s edition runs from Friday, October 12 to Sunday October 14, with in Europe alone, open doors in France, Italy, Switzerland, UK, Holland, Spain and Germany. Some 3,000 employees with 56 brands will welcome guests into over 70 sites on four continents. It reaches extends from pastry – Cova in Milan is one of Italy’s oldest pasticceria – to fine art, with the Fondation Louis Vuitton, and its giant glass confabulation designed by Frank Gehry in the Bois de Boulogne.“We have a brainstorming session every year, a carte blanche, there is not a strict brief, but in the end the idea is quite simple, letting people have a voyage of discovery into our universe. Why change something that works?” said Antoine, a LVMH board member and eldest son of Bernard Arnault, the group’s main shareholder, and France’s richest man. 2017 issue attracted 145'000 people, 2018 issue has a target of 175,000. \nLVMH is a major patron of art in France. The group supported about ten exhibitions as \"Le grand monde d’Andy Warhol\" and \"Picasso et les maîtres\" at le Grand Palais in Paris. LVMH also endorsed the patronage of \"l’atelier d’Alberto Giacometti\" and \"Yves Klein\" at Centre Georges Pompidou.\n\nSince 2005, when the LVMH flagship store opened in Paris at 3, avenue George V, 75008, the company presented close collaboration with contemporary artists. Features included a light sculpture by American James Turrell, a 20-metre (65 feet) long \"travelling staircase\" showcasing the work of American video artist Tim White-Sobieski and an elevator linking the store to the top floor by Iceland's Olafur Eliasson.\n\nIn 2006, gallery space was inaugurated on the second floor of the same building and named \"Espace Culturel\". \"Icônes\" was one of the first exhibitions. Shigeru Ban, Sylvie Fleury, Zaha Hadid, Bruno Peinado, Andrée Putman, Ugo Rondinone, James Turrell, Tim White-Sobieski and Robert Wilson were the nine artists invited by Louis Vuitton to participate in it.\n\nIn addition, LVMH foundation created the \"young creators LVMH award\", an international competition opened to French and international beaux-arts students. Each year, six grants are allocated to the winners.\n\nIn November 2013, LVMH created the \"LVMH Young Fashion Designer Prize\", which comes with a €300,000 grant with a year of mentoring and is the brainchild of Delphine Arnault. The first winner will be chosen in 2014. In February 2014 20 finalist for the prize were shown in London, such as Simone Rocha, Thomas Tait, Meadham Kirchhoff, Marques'Almeida, J JS Lee, and others. In May 2015 Marques'Almeida was announced as the second winner.\n\nLVMH underwrites other fashion competitions, including the Andam prize in France, the International Festival of Fashion and Photography in Hyères, France, an investment fund for young designers created by the French Ministry of Culture and Communication, and a scholarship program and sponsored lecture theater at Central Saint Martins in London.\n\nThe group also lends Stradivarius violins to young talented musicians. Maxim Vengerov and Laurent Korcia have used the instruments.\n\nIn 2014, LVMH opened the Fondation Louis Vuitton pour la Creation in a new building designed by Frank Gerry in the Bois de Boulogne in Paris. The Fondation is designed the Group’s own museum to present its collections and organize majors world-class arts exhibitions.\n\nOn 24 May 2018, LVMH made the e-commerce push by investing in an online fashion search business Lyst as the world's biggest luxury brands to expand their presence online and capture younger shoppers. It is injecting over $60 million into Lyst where LVMH is leading, a $60 million funding round to which it has contributed about 45 percent. Lyst plans to use the new funding by tapping LVMH’s deep international expertise and also, to drive global expansion.\n"}
{"id": "31508301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31508301", "title": "Laura X", "text": "Laura X\n\nLaura X (born Laura Rand Orthwein, Jr.; in St. Louis, Missouri in 1940), is one of the world’s leading advocates pertaining to the women's movement and a wide array of precursors and overlapping social movements from the second half of the 20th century.\n\nLaura X changed her name in 1962 to Laura Shaw Murra, which remains her legal name, and each of her other two sets of names she uses as an AKA. She took the name Laura X, on September 17, 1969, to symbolize her rejection of men's legal ownership of women and the anonymity of women's history, which was stolen from women and girls. She declared that, like Malcolm X, \"I don't want to have my owner's name, either.\"\n\nAfter attending Vassar College for three years, Laura X moved to New York City, became a Head Start Program teacher in the pilot program, having trained at the University of Puerto Rico. She also rose to Picket Captain in CORE (Congress of Racial Equality), attended New York University (NYU), and took graduate courses at Bank Street College of Education. Following her interests and research developed at Vassar College, she worked with the American Committee on Africa to welcome delegates from 17 newly independent states, 16 from Africa, join the UN - the biggest increase in membership in any one year - and to picket Chase Manhattan Bank about their investments in South Africa. In 1963, she moved to Berkeley, California and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley (UC-Berkeley), in 1971, having participated in the Free Speech Movement as well as other social justice movements.\n\nLaura X is the founder and was the director of the Women's History Research Center, in Berkeley, California, which was the first historical archive connected to the feminist movement. Laura X founded the Women's History Research Center in 1968 after a University of California, Berkeley professor expressed doubt that there was enough material on women to fill a quarter's course in history. By 1970 the Women's History Research Center was widely listed in early feminist publications. The Center put many of the early feminist writings on microfilm, making them available in libraries across the country. The Women's History Research Center eventually closed, and its collections are now held in the women's history archive at the Schlesinger Library, which is part of Harvard University's Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, and at other institutions.\n\nIn 1977, Laura X became an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press (WIFP). WIFP is an American nonprofit publishing organization. The organization works to increase communication between women and connect the public with forms of women-based media.\n\nIn 1978 the Women's History Research Center established the National Clearinghouse on Marital and Date Rape in Berkeley, California, with Laura X as director.\n\nIn 1979 Laura X led a successful campaign to make marital rape a crime in California. She also acted as a consultant to 45 other state campaigns on marital and date rape, as well as collecting and maintaining documents about the status of exemptions from prosecution in rape laws. Repeal of date and marital rape exemptions occurred in 45 states, in Federal and military law, in the laws of Guam and the laws of twenty other countries.\n\nIn September 1999 Laura X published her memoir \"Accomplishing the Impossible: an Advocate's Notes from the Successful Campaign to Make Marital and Date Rape a Crime in All 50 U.S. States and Other Countries\" in \"Violence Against Women: An International and Interdisciplinary Journal.\" \n\nLaura X served in 1985 with United States Surgeon General C. Everett Koop on the National Task Force on Violence as a Public Health Issue. \n\nIn recognition of her achievements, Laura X received\n\nLaura has been a guest on the Television shows: \namong others as subject matter expert on marital and date rape and other social justice matters.\n\nIn 2015, Laura X formed the 'Laura X - Laura Rand Orthwein, Jr. World Institute on Social Justice Movements.' Located physically in St. Louis, Missouri, the Institute serves as the home of both the physical archive which total over 400,000 individual items of history, the virtual museum, and the interpretation center for archival materials extant at UC Berkeley, Harvard, University of Illinois and other institutions, including guides to the Women’s History Research Center (WHRC). Total items at universities around the world are over 1,000,000 items of history. Laura X serves as the Institute's activist-in-residence and together with others offers interpretation and teaching to enrich communities in St Louis via in-person events and around the world through online virtual exhibitions.\n\nThe collection pertains to the Women's Movement and a wide array of precursors and overlapping social movements from the second half of the 20th century, including materials from Laura X's successful state-by-state campaign to abolish the legal privilege for marital and date rape. She began collecting materials in 1964 and has been committed to this effort ever since. The Institute’s Archives make historical research and presentation possible. Archive staff is currently engaged in cataloging the 580+ boxes of materials, in order to keep them vibrant, accessible, and available for researchers and other interested parties. Once finished, this archive will be a resource for students, professors, historians, film documentarians, museums, exhibitions, high school teachers, and the general public.\n"}
{"id": "42082231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42082231", "title": "List of archives in Germany", "text": "List of archives in Germany\n\nThis is list of archives in Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22440637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22440637", "title": "List of largest optical telescopes historically", "text": "List of largest optical telescopes historically\n\nTelescope have grown in size since they first appeared around 1608. The following tables list the increase in size over the years.\n\nThe following is a list of largest single mount optical telescopes sorted by total objective diameter (\"aperture\"), including segmented and multi-mirror configurations. It is a historical list, with the instruments listed in chronological succession by objective size. By itself, the diameter of the primary optics can be a poor measure of a telescope's historical or scientific significance; for example, William Parsons, 3rd Earl of Rosse's 72-inch (1.8 m) reflecting telescope did not perform as well (i.e. gather as much light) as the smaller silvered glass mirror telescopes that succeeded it because of the poor performance of its speculum metal mirror.\n\nChronological list of optical telescopes by historical significance, which reflects the overall technological progression and not only the primary mirror's diameter \"(as shown in table above)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55885999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55885999", "title": "Louise Brown (historian)", "text": "Louise Brown (historian)\n\nLouise Brown (1878 – 1 May 1955) was an American historian of Britain.\n\nLouise Fargo Brown was born in 1878 in Buffalo, New York and received her B.A. from Cornell University in 1903. She was awarded her Ph.D. in 1909 and go a job as an instructor at Wellesley College in 1909. Two years later, Brown published \"The Political Activities of the Baptists and Fifth Monarchy Men in England During the Interregnum\", for which she was awarded the Herbert Baxter Adams Prize from the American Historical Association for the best monograph in modern European history. In 1915 Brown became dean of women and professor of history at the University of Nevada. When the United States entered World War I, she enlisted into the United States Marine Corps where she was a sergeant. After the war, she became a professor at Vassar College where she remained until her retirement in 1944 and co-founded the Berkshire Historical Conference of Women Historians in 1930. Brown published \"The First Earl of Shaftesbury\" in 1933 and wrote \"Apostle of Democracy: The Life of Lucy Maynard Salmon\" a decade later. Together with George B. Carson, she published \"Men and Centuries of European Civilization\" in 1948. Brown was a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society. She died on 1 May 1955 at Norfolk, Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "49398666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49398666", "title": "MTV Fandom Awards", "text": "MTV Fandom Awards\n\nThe MTV Fandom Awards are an annual pop culture, television and film awards show presented by MTV with awards voted on by fans.\n"}
{"id": "796416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796416", "title": "Madoc", "text": "Madoc\n\nMadoc, also spelled Madog, ab Owain Gwynedd was, according to folklore, a Welsh prince who sailed to America in 1170, over three hundred years before Christopher Columbus's voyage in 1492. According to the story, he was a son of Owain Gwynedd, and took to the sea to flee internecine violence at home. The \"Madoc story\" legend evidently evolved out of a medieval tradition about a Welsh hero's sea voyage, to which only allusions survive. However, it attained its greatest prominence during the Elizabethan era, when English and Welsh writers wrote of the claim that Madoc had come to the Americas as an assertion of prior discovery, and hence legal possession, of North America by the Kingdom of England.\n\nThe \"Madoc story\" remained popular in later centuries, and a later development asserted that Madoc's voyagers had intermarried with local Native Americans, and that their Welsh-speaking descendants still live somewhere in the United States. These \"Welsh Indians\" were credited with the construction of a number of landmarks throughout the Midwestern United States, and a number of white travelers were inspired to go look for them. The \"Madoc story\" has been the subject of much speculation in the context of possible pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact. No conclusive archaeological proof of such a man or his voyages has been found in the New or Old World; however, speculation abounds connecting him with certain sites, such as Devil's Backbone, located on the Ohio River at Fourteen Mile Creek near Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nMadoc's purported father, Owain Gwynedd, was a real king of Gwynedd during the 12th century and is widely considered one of the greatest Welsh rulers of the Middle Ages. His reign was fraught with battles with other Welsh princes and with Henry II of England. At his death in 1170, a bloody dispute broke out between his heir, Hywel the Poet-Prince, and Owain's younger sons, Maelgwn, Rhodri, and led by Dafydd, two the children of the Princess-Dowager Cristen ferch Gronwy and one the child of Gwladus ferch Llywarch. Owain had at least 13 children from his two wives and several more children born out of wedlock but legally acknowledged under Welsh tradition. According to the legend, Madoc and his brother (Rhirid or Rhiryd) were among them, though no contemporary record attests to this.\n\nThe 1584 \"Historie of Cambria\" by David Powel says that Madoc was disheartened by this family fighting, and that he and Rhirid set sail from Llandrillo (Rhos-on-Sea) in the cantref of Rhos to explore the western ocean with a number of ships. They discovered a distant and abundant land in 1170 where about one hundred men, women and children disembarked to form a colony. According to Humphrey Llwyd's 1559 \"Cronica Walliae\", Madoc and some others returned to Wales to recruit additional settlers. After gathering several ships of men, women and children, the Prince and his recruiters sailed west a second time to \"that Westerne countrie\" and ported in \"Mexico\", never to return to Wales again.\n\nMadoc's landing place has also been suggested to be \"Mobile Alabama; Florida; Newfoundland; Newport, Rhode Island; Yarmouth, Nova Scotia; Virginia; points in the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean including the mouth of the Mississippi River; the Yucatan; the isthmus of Tehuantepec, Panama; the Caribbean coast of South America; various islands in the West Indies and the Bahamas along with Bermuda; and the mouth of the Amazon River\". Although the folklore tradition acknowledges that no witness ever returned from the second colonial expedition to report this, the story continues that Madoc's colonists travelled up the vast river systems of North America, raising structures and encountering friendly and unfriendly tribes of Native Americans before finally settling down somewhere in the Midwest or the Great Plains. They are reported to be the founders of various civilisations such as the Aztec, the Maya and the Inca.\n\nThe Madoc story evidently originated in medieval romance. There are allusions to what may have been a sea voyage tale akin to \"The Voyage of Saint Brendan\", but no detailed version of it survives.\n\nThe earliest certain reference to a seafaring Madoc or Madog appears in a \"cywydd\" by the Welsh poet Maredudd ap Rhys (\"fl.\" 1450–83) of Powys, which mentions a Madog who is a son or descendant of Owain Gwynedd and who voyaged to the sea. The poem is addressed to a local squire, thanking him for a fishing net on a patron's behalf. Madog is referred to as \"Splendid Madog... / Of Owain Gwynedd's line, / He desired not land ... / Or worldy wealth but the sea.\" A Flemish writer called Willem, in around 1250 to 1255, identifies himself in his poem \"Van den Vos Reinaerde\" as \"Willem die Madoc maecte\" (Willem, the author of Madoc, known as \"Willem the Minstrel\"). Though no copies of \"Madoc\" survive, Gwyn Williams tells us that \"In the seventeenth century a fragment of a reputed copy of the work is said to have been found in Poitiers\". It provides no topographical details relating to North America, but mentions a sea that may be the Sargasso Sea and says that Madoc (not related to Owain in the fragment according to Gwyn Williams) discovered an island paradise, where he intended \"to launch a new kingdom of love and music\". There are also claims that the Welsh poet and genealogist Gutun Owain wrote about Madoc before 1492. Gwyn Williams in \"Madoc, the Making of a Myth\", makes it clear that Madoc is not mentioned in any of Owain's surviving manuscripts.\n\nThe Madoc legend attained its greatest prominence during the Elizabethan era, when Welsh and English writers used it to bolster British claims in the New World versus those of Spain. The earliest surviving full account of Madoc's voyage, as the first to make the claim that Madoc had come to America before Columbus, appears in Humphrey Llwyd's published 1559 \"Cronica Walliae\", an English adaptation of the \"Brut y Tywysogion\". John Dee used his manuscript when he submitted the treatise \"Title Royal\" to Queen Elizabeth in 1580 which stated that \"The Lord Madoc, sonne to Owen Gwynned, Prince of Gwynedd, led a Colonie and inhabited in Terra Florida or thereabouts\" in 1170. The story was first published by George Peckham's as \"A True Report of the late Discoveries of the Newfound Landes\" (1583) and like Dee it was used to support English claims to the Americas. It was picked up in David Powel's \"Historie of Cambria\" (1584), and Richard Hakluyt's \"The Principall Navigations, Voiages and Discoveries of the English Nation\" (1589). John Dee went so far as to assert that Brutus of Troy and King Arthur as well as Madoc had conquered lands in the Americas and therefore their heir Elizabeth I of England had a priority claim there.\n\nThomas Herbert popularised the stories told by Dee and Powel, adding more detail from sources unknown, suggesting that Madoc may have landed in Canada, Florida, or even Mexico, and reporting that Mexican sources stated that they used currachs.\n\nThe Welsh Indians were not claimed until later. Morgan Jones's tract is the first account, and was printed by \"The Gentleman's Magazine\", launching a slew of publications on the subject. There is no genetic or archaeological evidence that the Mandan are related to the Welsh, however, and John Evans and Lewis and Clark reported they had found no Welsh Indians. The Mandan are still alive today; the tribe was decimated by a smallpox epidemic in 1837–1838 and banded with the nearby Hidatsa and Arikara into the Three Affiliated Tribes.\n\nThe Welsh Indian legend was revived in the 1840s and 1850s; this time the Zunis, Hopis, and Navajo were claimed to be of Welsh descent by George Ruxton (Hopis, 1846), P. G. S. Ten Broeck (Zunis, 1854), and Abbé Emmanuel Domenach (Zunis, 1860), among others. Brigham Young became interested in the supposed Hopi-Welsh connection: in 1858 Young sent a Welshman with Jacob Hamblin to the Hopi mesas to check for Welsh-speakers there. None was found, but in 1863 Hamblin brought three Hopi men to Salt Lake City, where they were \"besieged by Welshmen wanting them to utter Celtic words\", to no avail.\n\nLlewellyn Harris, a Welsh-American Mormon missionary who visited the Zuni in 1878, wrote that they had many Welsh words in their language, and that they claimed their descent from the \"Cambaraga\"—white men who had come by sea 300 years before the Spanish. However, Harris's claims have never been independently verified.\n\nOn 26 November 1608, Peter Wynne, a member of Captain Christopher Newport's exploration party to the villages of the Monacan people, Virginia Siouan speakers above the falls of the James River in Virginia, wrote a letter to John Egerton, informing him that some members of Newport's party believed the pronunciation of the Monacans' language resembled \"Welch\", which Wynne spoke, and asked Wynne to act as interpreter. The Monacan were among those non-Algonquian tribes collectively referred to by the Algonquians as \"Mandoag\".\n\nAnother early settler to claim an encounter with a Welsh-speaking Indian was the Reverend Morgan Jones, who told Thomas Lloyd, William Penn's deputy, that he had been captured in 1669 in North Carolina by a tribe of Tuscarora people called the Doeg. According to Jones, the chief spared his life when he heard Jones speak Welsh, a tongue he understood. Jones' report says that he then lived with the Doeg for several months preaching the Gospel in Welsh and then returned to the British Colonies where he recorded his adventure in 1686. The historian Gwyn A. Williams comments, \"This is a complete farrago and may have been intended as a hoax\". There is no evidence for there having been Doeg among the Tuscarora.\n\nFolk tradition has long claimed that a site called \"Devil's Backbone\" at Rose Island, about fourteen miles upstream from Louisville, Kentucky, was once home to a colony of Welsh-speaking Indians. The eighteenth-century Missouri River explorer John Evans of Waunfawr in Wales took up his journey in part to find the Welsh-descended \"Padoucas\" or \"Madogwys\" tribes.\n\nEarly visitors referred to a rock formation on Fort Mountain in Georgia as a fort, speculating that it was built by Hernando de Soto to defend against the Muscogee around 1540. This theory was contradicted as early as 1917, as a historian pointed out that de Soto was in the area for less than two weeks. Archaeologists believe the stones were placed there by indigenous peoples. There is also a theory that the \"Welsh Caves\" in DeSoto State Park, northeastern Alabama, were built by Madoc's party, since local native tribes were not known to have ever practised such stonework or excavation as was found on the site.\n\nIn 1810, John Sevier, the first governor of Tennessee, wrote to his friend Major Amos Stoddard about a conversation he had in 1782 with the old Cherokee chief Oconostota concerning ancient fortifications built along the Alabama River. The chief allegedly told him that the forts were built by a white people called \"Welsh\", as protection against the ancestors of the Cherokee, who eventually drove them from the region. Sevier had also written in 1799 of the alleged discovery of six skeletons in brass armour bearing the Welsh coat-of-arms. He claims that Madoc and the Welsh were first in Alabama.\n\nIn 1824, Thomas S. Hinde wrote a letter to John S. Williams, editor of The American Pioneer, regarding the Madoc Tradition. In the letter, Hinde claimed to have gathered testimony from numerous sources that stated Welsh people under Owen Ap Zuinch had come to America in the twelfth century, over three hundred years before Christopher Columbus. Hinde claimed that in 1799, six soldiers had been dug up near Jeffersonville, Indiana, on the Ohio River with breastplates that contained Welsh coats-of-arms.\n\nThomas Jefferson had heard of Welsh-speaking Indian tribes. In a letter written to Meriwether Lewis by Jefferson on 22 January 1804, he speaks of searching for the Welsh Indians \"said to be up the Missouri\". The historian Stephen E. Ambrose writes in his history book \"Undaunted Courage\" that Thomas Jefferson believed the \"Madoc story\" to be true and instructed the Lewis and Clark Expedition to find the descendants of the Madoc Welsh Indians.\n\nIn all, at least thirteen real tribes, five unidentified tribes, and three unnamed tribes have been suggested as \"Welsh Indians.\" Eventually, the legend settled on identifying the Welsh Indians with the Mandan people, who were said to differ from their neighbours in culture, language, and appearance. The painter George Catlin suggested the Mandans were descendants of Madoc and his fellow voyagers in \"North American Indians\" (1841); he found the round Mandan Bull Boat similar to the Welsh coracle, and he thought the advanced architecture of Mandan villages must have been learned from Europeans (advanced North American societies such as the Mississippian and Hopewell traditions were not well known in Catlin's time). Supporters of this claim have drawn links between Madoc and the Mandan mythological figure \"Lone Man\", who, according to one tale, protected some villagers from a flooding river with a wooden corral.\n\nSeveral attempts to confirm Madoc's historicity have been made, but historians of early America, notably Samuel Eliot Morison, regard the story as a myth. Madoc's legend has been a notable subject for poets, however. The most famous account in English is Robert Southey's long 1805 poem \"Madoc\", which uses the story to explore the poet's freethinking and egalitarian ideals. Fittingly, Southey wrote \"Madoc\" to help finance a trip of his own to America, where he and Samuel Taylor Coleridge hoped to establish a Utopian state they called a \"Pantisocracy\". Southey's poem in turn inspired the twentieth-century poet Paul Muldoon to write \"Madoc: A Mystery\", which won the Geoffrey Faber Memorial Prize in 1992. It explores what may have happened if Southey and Coleridge had succeeded in coming to America to found their \"ideal state\". In Russian, the noted poet Alexander S. Pushkin composed a short poem \"Madoc in Wales\" (Медок в Уаллах, 1829) on the topic.\n\nJohn Smith, historian of Virginia, wrote in 1624 of the \"Chronicles of Wales\" reports Madoc went to the New World in 1170 A.D. (over 300 years before Columbus) with some men and women. Smith says the \"Chronicles\" say Madoc then went back to Wales to get more people and made a second trip back to the New World.\n\nThe township of Madoc, Ontario, and the nearby village of Madoc are both named in the prince's memory, as are several local guest houses and pubs throughout North America and the United Kingdom. The Welsh town of Porthmadog (meaning \"Madoc's Port\" in English) and the village of Tremadog (\"Madoc's Town\") in the county of Gwynedd are actually named after the industrialist and Member of Parliament William Alexander Madocks, their principal developer, and additionally influenced by the legendary son of Owain Gwynedd, Madoc ab Owain Gwynedd.\n\nThe \"Prince Madog\", a research vessel owned by the University of Wales and P&O Maritime, set sail on 26 July 2001, on her maiden voyage.\n\nA plaque at Fort Mountain State Park in Georgia recounts a nineteenth-century interpretation of the ancient stone wall that gives the site its name. The plaque repeats Tennessee governor John Sevier's statement that the Cherokees believed \"a people called Welsh\" had built a fort on the mountain long ago to repel Indian attacks. October 2015, the plaque has now been changed with no reference to Madoc or the Welsh.\n\nIn 1953, the Daughters of the American Revolution erected a plaque at Fort Morgan on the shores of Mobile Bay, Alabama, reading:\n\nThe plaque was removed by the Alabama Parks Service in 2008 and put in storage. Since then there has been much controversy in getting the plaque reinstalled.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35465138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35465138", "title": "Manfred Berg", "text": "Manfred Berg\n\nManfred Berg is a German historian who serves as the Curt Engelhorn Chair in American History at Heidelberg University. He has also served as Heidelberg University's dean of faculty. He previously taught at the Free University of Berlin and served at the German Historical Institute in Washington D.C.\n\nSince spring 2017, Berg is speaker of the \"Graduiertenkolleg\" \"Authority and Trust in American Culture Society, History, and Politics\" (GKAT) at the Heidelberg Center for American Studies (HCA).\n\n"}
{"id": "368119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368119", "title": "Microhistory", "text": "Microhistory\n\nMicrohistory is the intensive historical investigation of a well-defined smaller unit of research (most often a single event, the community of a village, or an individual). In its ambition, however, microhistory can be distinguished from a simple case study insofar as microhistory aspires to \"[ask] large questions in small places\", to use the definition given by Charles Joyner.\n\nMicrohistory originally developed in Italy in the 1970s. According to Giovanni Levi, one of the pioneers of the approach, it began as a reaction to a perceived crisis in existing historiographical approaches. Carlo Ginzburg, another of microhistory's founders, has written that he first heard the term used around 1977, and soon afterwards began to work with Levi and Simona Cerutti on \"Microstorie\", a series of microhistorical works.\n\nThe word \"microhistory\" dates back to 1959, when the American historian George R. Stewart published \"Pickett's Charge: A Microhistory of the Final Attack on Gettysburg, July 3, 1863\", which tells the story of the final day of the Battle of Gettysburg. Another early use was by the Annales historian Fernand Braudel, for whom the concept had negative connotations, being overly concerned with the history of events. A third early use of the term was in the title of Luis González's 1968 work \"Pueblo en vilo: Microhistoria de San José de Gracia\". González distinguished between microhistory, for him synonymous with local history, and \"petite histoire\", which is primarily concerned with anecdotes.\n\nThe most distinctive aspect of the microhistorical approach is the small scale of investigations. Microhistorians focus on small units in society, as a reaction to the generalisations made by the social sciences which do not necessarily hold up when tested against these smaller units.\nFor instance, Ginzburg's 1976 work \"The Cheese and the Worms\" – \"probably the most popular and widely read work of microhistory\" – investigates the life of a single sixteenth-century Italian miller, Menocchio. The individuals microhistorical works are concerned with are frequently those Robert Tristano describes as \"little people\", especially those considered heretics.\n\nCarlo Ginzburg has written that a core principle of microhistory is making obstacles in sources, such as lacunae, part of the historical account. Relatedly, Levi has said that the point of view of the researcher becomes part of the account in microhistory. Other notable aspects of microhistory as a historical approach are an interest in the interaction of elite and popular culture, and an interest in the interaction between micro- and macro-levels of history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1976710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1976710", "title": "Origin hypotheses of the Serbs", "text": "Origin hypotheses of the Serbs\n\nThe Serbs trace their history to the 6th and 7th-century southwards migration of Slavs. The Serbs, as the other South Slavs, absorbed Paleo-Balkan peoples and established various states throughout the Middle Ages; Serbian historiography agrees on that the beginning of Serbian history started with the forming of Serbian statehood in the Early Middle Ages.\n\nIn the 19th century, various scholars provided several theories about the origin of the Serb ethnonym. Some researchers claimed that the ethnonym, and thereby ethnic origin, dated to ancient history. The theories are based on the presumed connection to various Roman-era ethnonyms (tribes) and toponyms. These theories remain largely unproved and controversial.\n\nVarious authors mentioned names of Serbs ( / Срби) and Sorbs (Upper Sorbian: \"Serbja\"; Lower Sorbian: \"Serby\") in different variants: Surbii, Suurbi, Serbloi, Zeriuani, Sorabi, Surben, Sarbi, Serbii, Serboi, Zirbi, Surbi, Sorben, etc. These authors used these names to refer to Serbs and Sorbs in areas where their historical (or current) presence was/is not disputed (notably in the Balkans and Lusatia), but there are also sources that mention the same or similar names in other parts of the World (most notably in the Asiatic Sarmatia in the Caucasus). Attempts of various researchers to connect these names with modern Serbs produced various theories about the origin of the Serb people.\n\n\n\nAccording to \"De Administrando Imperio\" (, written by the Byzantine emperor Constantine VII (912-959), the Serbs originated from the \"White Serbs\" who lived on the \"other side of Turkey\" (name used for Hungary), in the area that they called \"Boiki\". White Serbia bordered to the Franks and White Croatia. DAI claims that after two brothers inherited the rule from their father, one of them took half of the people and migrated to the Byzantine Empire (i.e. to the Balkans), which was governed by Emperor Heraclius (610-641). According to German historian L. A. Gebhardi, the two brothers were sons of Dervan, the \"dux\" (duke) of the Surbi (Sorbs).\n\nIn the Balkans, Serbs settled first around rivers Tara, Ibar, Drina and Lim (in the present-day border region of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Dalmatia), and joined with surrounding South Slavic tribes that came to the Balkans earlier (in the 6th century) and the Paleo-Balkan people. Over time, the South Slavic and mostly Illyrian tribes of this territory mixed with the Serbs and also adopted Serb name as their own.\n\nAnother part of the White Serbs did not migrate southwards, but remained in the Elbe region. Descendants of these White Serbs are the present day Lusatian Serbs (Sorbs), who still live in the Lusatia (Lužica, Lausitz) region of eastern Germany.\n\nThere are also opinions that data from \"De administrando imperio\" that describes Serb migration to the Balkans is not correct and that Serbs came to the Balkans from Eastern Slavic lands, together with other South Slavs.\n\nThe Emperor Constantine III (641) transferred a part of the Slavs from the Balkans (Vardar region) to Asia Minor. There these migrants founded the city of Gordoservon, the name of which gives grounds for supposing that among its founders there were Serbs. The city was also known under names Gordoserbon and Servochoria.\n\nTheory about Iranian origin of the Serb ethnonym assumes that ancient Serbi / Serboi from north Caucasus (Asiatic Sarmatia) were a Sarmatian (Alanian) tribe. The theory subsequently assumes that Alanian Serbi were subdued by the Huns in the 4th century and that they, as part of the Hunnic army, migrated to the western edge of the Hunnic Empire (in the area of Central Europe near the river Elbe, later designated as White Serbia in what is now Saxony (eastern Germany) and western Poland). After the Hunnic leader Attila died (in 453), Alanian Serbi presumably became independent and ruled in the east of the river Saale (in modern-day Germany) over the local Slavic population. Over time, they, it is argued, intermarried with the local Slavic population of the region, adopted Slavic language, and transferred their name to the Slavs. According to Tadeuš Sulimirski, similar event could occur in the Balkans or Serbs who settled in the Balkans were Slavs who came from the north and who were ruled by already slavicized Alans.\nDeformed human skulls that are connected to the Alans are also discovered in the area that was later designated as \"White Serbia\". According to Indo-European interpretation, different sides of the World are designated with different colors, thus, white color is designation for the west, black color for the north, blue or green color for the east and red color for the south. According to that view, White Serbia and White Croatia were designated as western Serbia and western Croatia, and were situated in the west from some hypothetical lands that had same names and that presumably existed in the east.\n\nIt is possible that the Alanian Serbi in Sarmatia, similarly like other Sarmatian/Iranian peoples on the northern Caucasus, originally spoke an Indo-European Iranian language similar to present-day Ossetian. The Ossetian language is a member of Eastern Iranian branch of Iranian languages, along with Pashtun, Yaghnobi and languages of the Pamir. One of the Pashtun tribal groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan is known as Sarbans (Sarbani) and Pashtuns are believed to be of Scythian descent while their language is classified as East Scythian (Sarmatian language is also grouped within Scythian branch).\n\nIn Polish history, the Polish nobility claimed to be direct descendants of the historic Sarmatian people (see: Sarmatism) and this might be connected with historical White Serbia and White Croatia, which included parts of present-day Poland. \n\nThis theory assumes that Serbs are an autochthonic people in the Balkans and Podunavlje, where they presumably lived before historical Slavic and Serb migration to the Balkans in the 6th-7th centuries. Proponents of this theory (for example Jovan I. Deretić, Olga Luković Pjanović, Miloš Milojević) claimed that Serbs either came to the Balkans long before the 7th century or Serb 7th century migration to the Balkans was only partial and Serbs who, according to \"De administrando imperio\", came from the north founded in the Balkans other Serbs that already lived there. It is suggested that ancient city of Serbinum in Pannonia was named after these hypothetical autochthonic Serbs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22457534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22457534", "title": "Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk", "text": "Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk\n\nPavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk () was born on May 28, 1971 in Dunaivtsi of Western Podillya (Khmelnytskyi Oblast), Soviet Union and is a Ukrainian historian, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Senior Research Scientist at I.F.Kuras Institute of Political and Ethnic Studies of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Academician of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (Kyiv), Head of Department of Historical Studies at the Scientific Research Institute of Ukrainian Studies (Kyiv), and Ukrainian poet (Laureate International Literature Prize I.Koshelivets by 2013).\n\nHai-Nyzhnyk was born in a small city of Dunayivtsi in Podilia in 1971. He was an active participant of the independence movement in the times of perestroika in the Soviet Union and the founder and leader of the nationalistic youth organization \"Union of Ukrainian Nation\" (1986-1989 in Dunayivtsi). In 1988, for the first time in the history of the Soviet Podilia, he hoisted the national flag of Ukraine on the pipe of the Dunayivtsi dress factory of V.I.Lenin. He studied in Donetsk higher military-political school of engineering troops and troops of connection (1989–1991), graduated from the historical faculty of Kam’yanets'-Podil'skuy Teacher Training University named by V.P.Zatonsky (1995), post-graduated from the M.S.Hrushevsky Institute of Ukrainian archeography and fontology of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (1998), and studied for the degree of doctor at National Taras Shevchenko University of Kiev (2008).\n\nA circle of his scientific interests is history of Ukraine of the first half of the 20th century, history of the world and Ukrainian political history, history of national liberation competitions 1917–1921, history of domestic socio-economic and financial policy, biographical science.\n\nCandidate of historical sciences. The thesis submitted for a Candidate of History Degree in speciality 07.00.01. – History of Ukraine (National Taras Shevchenko University of Kiev, 2000): Financial police of Government Ukrainian State headed by Hetman P.Skoropads’ky (29 April – 14 December 1918) .\n\nDoctor of historical sciences. Dissertation for a doctoral degree in speciality 07.00.01 – History of Ukraine (National Taras Shevchenko University of Kiev, 2008): Financial police headed by Central Rade and Governments of Ukrainian Peoples Republic (March 1917 – April 1918) .\n\nHai-Nyzhnyk worked at M.S.Hrushevsky Institute of Ukrainian archeography and fontology of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (Kiev), Research Financial Institute at Ministry of Finance of Ukraine (Kiev), Ukrainian Research Institute of the archives and documents sources (Kiev), Institute of society transformation (Kiev), Krivuy Rig State Pedagogical University (Kryvuy Rig), National Academy of Government Tax Service of Ukraine (Kiev), I.F.Kuras Institute of Political and Ethnic Studies fontology of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (Kiev).\n\nSenior Research Scientist at I.F.Kuras Institute of Political and Ethnic Studies of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (Kyiv)\n\nHead of Department of Historical Studies at the Scientific Research Institute of Ukrainian Studies (Kyiv)\n\nAcademician of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (Kyiv).\n\nHai-Nyzhnyk has an award Order of the Sainted Prince Vladimir the Large the ІІІ degree (2006) and by the diploma of Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine (2007). Laureate International Literature Prize I.Koshelivets by 2013.\n\nHai-Nyzhnyk has more than 1000 scientific publications, and also monographs:25\n\nPersonal monographs:\n\n1. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" Documentary sources and materials to the history of financial policy of the Ukrainian State government (on April, 29 – on December, 14 in 1918). Reference book. - Kyiv, 2004. - 47 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Документальні джерела і матеріали до історії фінансової політики уряду Української Держави (29 квітня - 14 грудня 1918 р.). Довідник. - К., 2004. - 47 с./\n\n\"A new monography of Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk \"Documentary sources and materials to the history of a financial policy of the Ukrainian State government (April, 29th - December, 14th, 1918)\" was published.\"\n\n2. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" Financial policy of Government Ukrainian State headed by Hetman Pavlo Skoropads'ky (on April, 29 – on December, 14 in 1918). - Kyiv, 2004. - 430 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Фінансова політика уряду Української Держави Гетьмана Павла Скоропадського (29 квітня - 14 грудня 1918 р.). - Київ, 2004. - 430 с./\n\n\"A new monography of Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk \"Financial police of Government Ukrainian State headed by Hetman Pavlo Skoropads'ky (29 April - 14 December of 1918) was published.\"\n\n3. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" The Fiscal Policy headed by Central Rade, governments UNR, Ukrainian State, Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic (1917–1930). - Kyiv, 2006. - 303 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Податкова політика Центральної Ради, урядів УНР, Української Держави, УСРР (1917-1930 рр.). - К.: Цифра-друк, 2006. - 303 с./\n\n\"A new monography of Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk \"The fiscal police headed by Central Rade, governments UNR, Ukrainian State, USRR (1917–1930)\" was published.\"\n\n4. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" Ukrainian State bank: formation history. Documents and materials (1917–1918). - Kyiv, 2007. - 340 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Український Державний банк: історія становлення. Документи і матеріали (1917-1918 рр.). - Київ: Цифра-друк, 2007. - 340 с./\n\n\"A new monography of Hai-Nyzhnyk P. \"The Ukrainian National bank: formation history. Documents and materials (1917-1918)\" was published.\"\n\n5. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" UPR and WUPR: formation of the organs of power and the national state (1917-1920). - Kyiv: \"SCHek\", 2010. - 304 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" УНР та ЗУНР: становлення органів влади і національне державотворення (1917-1920 рр.). - К.: \"ЩеK\", 2010. - 304 с./\n\n\"In the new book the author clarifies the process of the higher and local state authorities formation in Ukraine in the days of the Ukrainian National Republic (in the times of the Central Rada and Directory) and the West Ukrainian Peaple Republic (WUPR) in the context of complex process of national state formation in the turbulent 1917 – 1920 years. Achievements and failures of the state formation are analyzed, in particular, the legislative base, principles of formation and activity of the higher legislative and executive powers of the first and the second UPR and WUPR, the central and local state bodies, forms and a system of the Ukrainian state formations, the causes of the Central Rada downfall and also the success of Hetman P.Skoropadskyi’s coup d'état, preparation and an essence of the Directory uprising, unified and state strive of the Trans-Carpathian Ukrainians and the preconditions and consequences of the Reunited Act of UPR and WUPR. The monograph is intended for historians, men of law, government employees, political scientists and anybody who is interested in the Ukrainian past at the beginning of the 20th century.\"\n\n6. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" Time for change (political essays and interviews for 2010-2013). - Kyiv, 2013. - 258 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Час на зміни (політична публіцистика та інтерв’ю за 2010–2013 рр.). – К., 2013. – 258 с./\n\n7. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" Ukrainian diplomacy and international financial policy of the governments of the Central Rada, Ukrainian State (Hetman) and UNR Directory (1917-1922). - Kyiv: Duliby, 2016. - 532 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Українська дипломатія й міжнародна фінансова політика урядів Центральної Ради, Української Держави (Гетьманату) та Директорії УНР (1917–1922 рр.). – К.: Дуліби, 2016. – 532 с./\n\n\"The new monograph doctor of historical sciences P.P.Hai-Nyzhnyk highlights the activities of Ukrainian diplomats and government officials in the context of maintaining international financial policy of the government of the Central Rada, Hetman and Directory for 1917–1922 years. The author analyzes the multifaceted aspects of international financial policy of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian People's Republic in comparison with the internal and foreign policy, and given the general financial and economic and public policies of national and state revival of Ukraine.\nTo put scientific use new, previously unknown, archival documents. The book is intended not only for researchers, diplomats, economists, students, but also a wide range of readers and anyone interested in Ukraine's modern history, the history of financial policy, diplomacy and international relations and so on.\"\n\n8. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk.\" Russia against Ukraine (1990-2016): from the policy of blackmail and coercion to war on takeover attempts and destruction. - Kyiv: MP \"Lesya\", 2017. - 332 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П.\" Росія проти України (1990–2016 рр.): від політики шантажу і примусу до війни на поглинання та спроби знищення. – К.: «МП Леся», 2017. – 332 с./\n\n\"The new monograph doctor of historical sciences P.P.Hai-Nyzhnyk \"Russia against Ukraine (1990-2016): from the policy of blackmail and coercion to war on takeover attempts and destruction\" highlights the complex diplomatic and military politychnyhvzayemyn between Russia and Ukraine in the context of interesivMoskvy geopolitical and foreign policy of Kyiv, internal political and socio-economic situation in Ukraine during 1990-2016 years. The book analizuyutsyamizhnarodna Ukraine government policies in the context of national security, istorychnip eredumovy and geopolitical causes of aggression against the Russian Federation, the Ukraine u2014., and the military-political and financial-economic aspects of the Russian-Ukrainian war through the prism of global processes and global change.\nConsidered theoretical political, geopolitical, cultural, historical and foreign policy aspects of the annexation of the Crimea and armed conflict in the Donbass. With realism and withpositions interpreted specifics of international relations in the post-imperial (post) political space, including the place and role of Ukraine utsyvilizatsiynomu opposition Moskovian European West and East. The author presents his own assessment of the Russian Federation as a state-aggressor and sponsor of international terrorism, analyzes the current challenges and solutions to strengthen the Ukrainian national identity, strategy reintegration and de-occupation of the Crimea, strengthening of national security and defense of Ukraine.\nProposed means of public authorities, historians, political scientists, university professors, students and all those interested in the modern history of Ukraine and is indifferent to the fate of united and independent state of Ukraine.\"\n\nCoauthor of:\n\n1. Scientific documentary collection to a 90-anniversary of introduction of government service in Ukraine. - Kyiv, 2008. - 124 p. \n\n/ukr.: Науково-документальна збірка до 90-річчя запровадження державної служби в Україні / \"Верстюк В., Гай-Нижник П., Коник С. та ін.\" – К.: Центр сприяння інституційному розвитку державної служби, 2008. – 124 с./\n\n\"A new collective monography of Verstyuk V., Hai-Nyzhnyk P, Konyk S., \"Scientific - documentary collected articles dedicated to 90-th anniversary of government service implementation in Ukraine.\" was published.\"\n\n2. Essays of history of government service of Ukraine. - Kyiv, 2008. - 536 p. \n\n/ukr.: Нариси історії державної служби в Україні / \"Авт. колектив: Аркуша О.Г., Бородін Є.І., Віднянський С.В., Гай-Нижник П.П. та інш.\" - К.: Ніка-Центр, 2008. - 536 с./\n\n\"\"Essays on the history of government service in Ukraine\" is the first in the Ukrainian historiography attempt to summarize in holistic research the numerous works devoted to the process of state formation, political and administrative system, government service formation and the activities of public servants. The authors begin their study with the analysis of the ancient society state organization and complete with the characteristic of construction and development of government service in the independent Ukraine. The book contains forms and types of (national, imperial, occupation) management activities on the Ukrainian lands. The text of \"Essays\" is prepared as part of a research project, which is carried out to-order the Centre for adaption the government service to the standards of the European Union, by means the State Budget of Ukraine. Ultimate purpose of research is a monograph and a collection of documents under the common title \"The History of Government Service in Ukraine\".\"\n\n3. Banking system of Ukraine: measurings of global financial crisis. Expertly analytical lecture. - Kyiv: Dorado-druk, 2009. - 64 p. \n\n/ukr.: Банківська система України: виміри глобальної фінансової кризи. Експертно-аналітична доповідь / \"Авт. колектив: І.А.Белоусова, К.Г.Ваганов, С.В.Вовчок, П.П.Гай-Нижник та інш.\" - К.: Дорадо-друк, 2009. - 64 с./\n\n\"The expert analytical report is done in conformity with the Governmental plan of actions over financial crisis in Ukraine and devoted to the system analysis of the banking system situation of Ukraine, the development directions of its reforming. The authors of the report are well - known scientists and experts in the field of banks and the finance, jurisprudence, history, sociology, economic security and the government administration.\"\n\n4-5. The history of the Government Service in Ukraine. - Kyiv: Nika-Tsentr, 2009. - Vol.1. - 544 p. ; - Vol.2. - 512 p. \n\n/ukr.: Історія державної служби в Україні / \"Авт. колектив: О.Г.Аркуша, О.В.Бойко, Є.І.Бородін, С.В.Віднянський, П.П.Гай-Нижник та інш.\" У 5 т. - К.: \"Ніка-Центр\", 2009. - Т.1. - 544 с.; - Т.2. - 512 с./\n\n\"The first volume of \"The history of the Government Service in Ukraine\" analyses a wide range of problems related to the state formation, political and administrative system, organizing state administration and government service and to the government employees’ activities. Authors begin their study with the analysis of relations between ancient states and societies in Ukraine and complete it with the characteristic of state formation process in the West Ukrainian National Republic. All forms and types (national, imperial, occupation) administrative activity on Ukrainian lands are analyzed. The fundamental research of the government service history in Ukraine is prepared as a part of the scientific project, which is carried out to-order the Centre for adaption the government service to the standards of the European Union, by means the State Budget of Ukraine and led by the Department of Government Service in Ukraine. The project is dedicated to the 90th anniversary of the establishment government service in Ukraine and is being carried out pursuant to the instruction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine\" In commemoration of the 90th establishment anniversary of the Government Service\" dated June 11, 2008 №817.\"\n\n6. Economic security of the banking system in the context of new course of reforms in Ukraine 2010–2015 years. Expertly analytical lecture. - Kyiv: Dorado-druk, 2010. - 64 p. \n\n/ukr.: Економічна безпека банківської системи в контексті нового курсу реформ в Україні в 2010-2015 років. Експертно-аналітична доповідь / \"Авт. колектив: В.Г.Алькема, І.А.Белоусова, К.В.Ваганов, П.П.Гай-Нижник та інш.\" - К.: Дорадо-друк, 2010. - 64 c./\n\n\"The expert analytical report is done in conformity with the Governmental plan of actions over financial crisis in Ukraine and devoted to the system analysis of the banking system situation of Ukraine, the development directions of its reforming. The authors of the report are well - known scientists and experts in the field of banks and the finance, jurisprudence, history, sociology, economic security and the government administration.\"\n\n7. The state, authorities and civil society in the documents of political parties in Ukraine (end of 1980s - first half of 2011). - Kyiv: IPiEND, 2011. - 808 p. \n\n/ukr.: Держава, влада та громадянське суспільство у документах політичних партій України (кінець 1980-х - перша половина 2011 рр.) / \"М.С.Кармазіна, Т.А.Бевз, Д.В.Вєдєнєєв, П.П.Гай-Нижник, О.М.Любовець, С.В.Полтавець, О.М.Собачко, В.Д.Яремчук.\" - К.: ІПіЕНД ім. І. Ф. Кураса НАН України, 2011. - 808 с./\n\n\"The collection presents extracts from the documents of modern Ukrainian political parties, in which their view for functioning of government, state institutions and civil society in Ukraine are displayed. The collection is intended for researchers, analysts, experts, leaders and members of political parties, public figures, anyone who is interested in questions of party development in Ukraine.\n8. Ukrainian multi-party system: political parties, electoral blocs, leaders (the end of 1980 –s – early 2012). - Kyiv, 2012. - 588 p. \n\n/ukr.: Українська багатопартійність: політичні партії, виборчі блоки, лідери (кінець 1980 – х – початок 2012 рр.). Енциклопедичний довідник. – К.: ІПіЕНД ім. І.Ф. Кураса НАН України, 2012. – 588 с./\n\n\"The reference book includes information materials about modern Ukrainian political parties (both active and those that ceased their existence) and their first leaders (founders), electoral coalitions, created on the eve of elections to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine III-VI convocations. The reference books is intended for researchers, analysts, experts, leaders and members of political parties, public figures, all who are interested in party building in Ukraine.\"\n\n9. Ukraine for twenty years: materials of international veb-conference on Augusts, 22 in 2011. - Chernihiv, 2013. - 48 p. \n\n/ukr.: Україна за двадцять років: матеріали міжнародної веб-конференції 22 серпня 2011 р. / Черніг. центр перепідготовки та підвищення кваліфікації працівників органів держ. влади, органів місц. самоврядування, держ п-в, установ і організацій; Ред. кол.: В.М.Бойко (голова ред.) [та ін.]. – Чернігів: Сіверський центр післядипломної освіти, 2013. – 48 с./\n\n\"«Ukraine for twenty years» is collection of materials of international veb-conference, which took place on Augusts, 22 in 2011 Its participants from Ukraine, Great Britain, Russia, Poland and USA, tried to give an answer for a question as in the world and independence of our state is perceived in Ukraine. Edition is intended for independent preparation of listeners within the framework of in-plant training, for all, who is interested in the problems of modern Ukraine.\"\n\n10. \"Hai-Nyzhnyk Pavlo, Leiberov Oleksiy.\" UPR in a period Directory: search of model of the political system (end 1918 – 1919). - Nizhyn, 2013. – 214 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П., Лейберов О.\" УНР у період Директорії: пошук моделі державного устрою (кінець 1918 – 1919 рр.). – Ніжин, 2013. – 212 с./\n\n11. Political parties in Ukraine parliamentary election campaign 2012 / Collective monograph. - Kyiv: IPiEND them. IF Kuras National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 2013. - 400 p. \n\n/ukr.: Політичні партії України у парламентській виборчій кампанії 2012 року / \"Колективна монографія; М.Кармазіна, Т.Бевз, П.Гай-Нижник, А.Зуйковська, О.Рибій, В.Яремчук\". – К.: ІПіЕНД ім. І.Ф. Кураса НАН України, 2013. – 400 с. /\n\n12. Ukrainian studies: conceptual and theoretical-methodological foundations of development. - Kyiv., 2015. - 504 p. \n\n/ukr.: Українознавство: концептуальні та теоретико-методологічні основи розвитку / \"П.П.Гай-Нижник (керівник проекту), Т.А.Бевз, О.Є.Гомотюк, С.І.Губський, Я.С.Калакура, А.М.Киридон, І.Й.Краснодемська, В.Т.Лазарєва, А.Ю.Санченко, О.М.Склярова, Л.К.Токар, Д.В.Толочко, Л.В.Чупрій, О.Б.Ярошинський\". – К., 2015. – 504 с./\n\n\"In the collective labor sponsored summarizes the role, objectives, principles and achievements during the restoration of Ukrainian state independence Ukraine, analyzes the general trends and peculiarities of its development at the present historical stage, deepening the conceptual and theoretical-methodological basis, it appears the role of basic concepts and categories in Ukrainian development. The main focus is on learning experiences and lessons learned are already being self-creation and self Ukrainian people; understanding the phenomenon of the national idea as the inner essence factor expression of the nation; substantiation of new approaches to the use of general methodological principles of Ukrainian scientific studies and study their techniques and so on.\"\n\n13. \"Pavlo Hai-Nyzhnyk, Oleh Batrak.\" Dogmatic faith in the catholic church and of Christianity in ancient (end of IX - the middle of XI.). Sketch of historical and hermeneutic interpretation. - Kyiv., 2015. - 278 p. \n\n/ukr.: \"Гай-Нижник П. П., Батрак О. П.\" Догматика віри в Кафолічній Церкві й запровадження християнства у Давній Русі (кінець ІХ – середина ХІ ст.). Нарис історико-герменевтичної інтерпретації. – К.: «МП Леся», 2015. – 278 с./\n\n\"The book authors analyze complex and ambiguous process of Christianity in Rus end of IX - the middle of XI. In the context of contemporary European philosophy and Christianity highlights the theological commonality and differences are common at the time of the Christian Church, but which had already torn by political and ideological and dogmatic contradiction. It turns out the place, role and self-determination of in those processes.\nAuthors, given the historical-hermeneutic interpretation and Slavic Cyril and Methodius tradition (in comparison with Arian, Byzantine and Latin), the then untie knots theological ideas and dogmas, including such terms and concepts as the \"Holy Trinity\", \"consubstantial \" podibnosuschnist \" Creed \"and so on. Traced ideological and religious, political and ideological way of to the introduction of Christianity in the country Volodymyr the Great and his approval of Yaroslav the Wise.\nThe book also discusses prerequisites, reasons and circumstances of the adoption of Christianity by Grand Prince Vladimir of Kiev Svyatoslavich its symbolic and spiritual content, analyzes the princely act in this area. Establish religious and political uzrinnya, tactics and strategy of consolidation of the Faith of Christ Grand Duke of Kiev Yaroslav (the Wise) Vladimirovich, his vision of the Church in the Ruthenian state, society, in the Slavic world view, as well as among religious and spiritual centers of the state of contemporary Christian world.\"\n\n14. Russian occupation and the de-occupation of Ukraine: history, current threats and challenges. - Kyiv, 2016. - 352 p. \n\n/ukr.: Російська окупація і деокупація України: історія, сучасні загрози та виклики сьогодення: Матеріали Всеукраїнської науково-практичної конференції (Київ, 2016 р.) / \"Упор. П. Гай-Нижник\". – К.: «МП Леся», 2016. – 352 с. /\n\n\"The proposed collection contains Ukrainian scientific-practical conference \"The Russian occupation and the de-occupation of Ukraine: history, current threats and challenges\", held in 2016 in Kiev.\nThe authors of the papers presented its own view on the historical origins and parallel Russian aggression against Ukraine, gave a scientific assessment of the Russian Federation as a state-aggressor and sponsor of international terrorism, analyzed the Russian-Ukrainian war that began in 2014 as a result of the treacherous attack Russia and Challenges and how to strengthen the system of national security of Ukraine.\nProposed means of public authorities, historians, political scientists, university professors, students and all those interested in the modern history of Ukraine and is indifferent to the fate of united and independent Ukraine.\"\n\n15. The aggression of Russia against Ukraine: historical background and current challenges. - Kyiv., 2016. - 586 p. \n\n/ukr.: Агресія Росії проти України: історичні передумови та сучасні виклики / \"П.П.Гай-Нижник (керівник проекту, упоряд. і наук. ред.); авт. кол.: П.П.Гай-Нижник, Л.Л.Залізняк, І.Й.Краснодемська, Ю.С.Фігурний, О.А.Чирков, Л.В.Чупрій\". – К.: «МП Леся», 2016. – 586 с./\n\n\"The authors of the collective monograph \"Russian aggression against Ukraine, the historical background and current challenges\" gave the reader his own perception of historical sources and parallels Russian aggression against Ukraine, made a scientific assessment of the Russian Federation as a state-aggressor and sponsor of international terrorism, analyzed the Russian-Ukrainian war which began in 2014 as a result of the treacherous attack, as well as the current challenges and how to strengthen the system of national security of Ukraine.\nProposed means of public authorities, historians, political scientists, university professors, students and all those interested in the modern history of Ukraine and is indifferent to the fate of united and independent Ukraine.\"\n\n16. Russian aggression against Ukraine: Problems optimize public administration and national security system. Expert-analytical report. - Kyiv., 2016. - 28 p. \n\n/ukr.: Агресія Російської Федерації проти України: проблеми оптимізації державного управління та системи національної безпеки. Експертно-аналітична доповідь / \"П.П.Гай-Нижник (керівник проекту, упоряд., наук. ред.); авт. кол.: П.П.Гай-Нижник, Л.Л.Залізняк, І.Й.Краснодемська, Ю.С.Фігурний, О.А.Чирков, Л.В.Чупрій. – К.: «МП Леся», 2016. – 28 с.\"/\n\n\"The purpose of expert-analytical report is to analyze the characteristics of armed political conflict in eastern Ukraine and the development of possible scenarios to solve it and reintegration of the occupied territories of Donbass and Crimea Ukrainian constitutional and socio-cultural space. It is noted that stsenapiy vypishennya konfliktu nA shodi Ukpayiny shlyahom peintehpatsiyi tepytopiy vyhlyadaye nayskladnishym various staates but with tochky zopu natsionalnyh intepeciv Ukpayiny, zabezpechennya dovhoctpokovoyi pehionalnoyi ctabilnocti ta tsiley pozvytku depzhavy vyhlyadaye naybilsh acceptable.\"\n\n1. Remember me... Lyric poetry of love (Kyiv, 2006. - 114 p.) \n\n/ukr.: Згадуй мене... Лірика кохання/\n\n2. Taste of freedom... Lyric poetry of life (Kyiv, 2009. - 95 p.) \n\n/ukr.: Смак свободи... Лірика життя/\n\n3. Fluctuation. Poetry (Kyiv, 2015. - 97 p.) \n\n/ukr.: Плинність. Поезія/\n\n\n/ukr.: Вілаґ почуттів. Збірник української поезії/\n\n\n/ukr.: Тебе я колихав ночами. Поезії/\n\n\n/ukr.: Воїнам світла. Збірник української поезії/\n\nNew Poetry and Lyric Gallery \n\nhttp://www.hai-nyzhnyk.in.ua\n"}
{"id": "989968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989968", "title": "Pax Sinica", "text": "Pax Sinica\n\nPax Sinica (Latin for \"Chinese peace\") is a historiographical term, modeled after the original phrase \"Pax Romana\", applied to the period of peace in East Asia, maintained by Chinese hegemony. During this period, long-distance trade flourished, cities ballooned, standards of living rose, and the population surged. It is usually the period of rule by the Western Zhou, Han, Tang, Ming, and Qing dynasties. During these periods, China maintained the dominant civilization in the region, due to its political, economic, military and cultural power.\n\nThe Pax Sinica of the eastern world by Han China coincided with the Pax Romana of the western world by Rome. It stimulated the long-distance travel and trade in Eurasian history. The Pax Sinica and Pax Romana both eroded at about 200 AD.\n\nTang China (618–907) had established another Pax Sinica. This was considered one of the golden ages of China. The economy, commerce, culture, and science was flourishing and reached new heights. During the early Tang-era, most notably during Emperor Taizong's reign, the Chinese brought their nomadic neighbors to submission. By securing the safety and peace at the many trade routes, this era of Pax Sinica saw a new age for exchange via the Silk Road. The Chinese civilization became open and cosmopolitan to all people from near and far away. Many people from different backgrounds and denominations traveled to the capital of Chang'an. These included clerics, merchants, and envoys from India, Persia, Arabia, Syria, Korea, and Japan.\n\nA resurgence of this term has happened in recent years, as the rise of China changes the geopolitical landscape in Asia. The view has been expressed that a renewed Pax Sinica in Central Asia may help maintain stability in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36264547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36264547", "title": "Richard Grove", "text": "Richard Grove\n\nRichard Hugh Grove (b 1955, Cambridge, UK) is a British historian, and one of the contemporary founders of environmental history as an academic field. His prizewinning book, \"Green Imperialism: Colonial Expansion, Tropical Island Edens and the Origins of Environmentalism 1600–1860\" (1995), is widely praised for its exhaustive account of colonial environmental impacts and environmental thinking back to the 17th century.\n\nGrove is the son of Cambridge climatologists Alfred Thomas Grove and Jean Mary Grove, née Clark, and is married to historian Vinita Damodaran of University of Sussex. His interdisciplinary training includes a BA in Geography from Oxford University (1979), MSc in Conservation biology from University College London (1980) and a PhD in History from the University of Cambridge (1988).\n\nGrove was a Fellow of Clare Hall, and College Lecturer at Churchill College, University of Cambridge (1988–1990 and 1991–1992). He also held visiting appointments at the Institute of Advanced Studies of the Australian National University in Canberra and the Program in Agrarian Studies at Yale University. He spent a year at the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington DC in the 1990s.\n\nGrove became Professor and founded the Centre for World Environmental History at the University of Sussex in May 2002. He received a five-year research appointment at the Australian National University in 2006, funded by an ARC Discovery fellowship, but was unable to complete it. In 2006, Grove suffered a very serious car accident in Cooma, Australia, on his way back from the Manning Clark property \"Ness\" on the far south coast of New South Wales, and has been severely incapacitated since that time.\n\nGrove has contributed to knowledge of the political, environmental and economic history of India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Mauritius and other Indian Ocean islands, Malawi, Ghana, Nigeria, the Southern Caribbean (especially St Vincent, Montserrat, Dominica and Tobago), Australia and New Zealand. His major contribution has been to document the environmental history of these places through exhaustive archival research in several languages, particularly relating to the 17th–19th centuries. The ecological transformations of island terrains around the world received particular attention. He argued that some important figures in the tropics actually helped to create early environmentalist thought in the British colonies. Plant transfers by colonial actors were very significant, and helped create environmental awareness among imperial powers. His major argument is summarised in \"The Culture of Islands and the History of Environmental Concern\", a paper presented at the Harvard Seminar on Environmental Values, in 2000.\n\nA more recent strand of investigation concerned the historical impact of El Nino events. His 2000 book with Australian geologist, John Chappell, documented the local effects of the disastrous 1997–1998 El Nino in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia.\n\nGrove founded the academic journal, \"Environment and History\".\n\nA festschrift volume, \"The British Empire and the natural world: environmental encounters in South Asia\", edited by Deepak Kumar, Vinita Damadaran, and Rohan D'Souza, was published by Oxford University Press in 2011. The volume recognises Grove's substantial contribution to environmental history before his accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3359779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359779", "title": "Richard Talbert", "text": "Richard Talbert\n\nRichard John Alexander Talbert (born April 26, 1947) is a British-American contemporary ancient historian and classicist on the faculty of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he is William Rand Kenan, Jr., Professor of Ancient History and Classics. Talbert is a leading scholar of ancient geography and the idea of space in the ancient Mediterranean world.\n\nTalbert received his education at The King's School, Canterbury and Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, where he gained Double First Class Honours in Classics (1968), followed by a PhD (1972).\n\nConnected to his spatial research is a major project on the \"Tabula Peutingeriana\" (Peutinger table), a copy of an ancient Roman map preserved in a Medieval version once owned by Konrad Peutinger. He is the head of the advisory board of the Ancient World Mapping Center, an interdisciplinary research unit based at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Talbert is also a senior editor of the Pleiades Project, a joint digital humanities venture focused on ancient world geography coordinated by The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and New York University. Cambridge granted him a Litt. D. in 2003. He is also a Corresponding Member of the Deutsches Archäologisches Institut. Talbert has been on the faculties of the Queen's University, Belfast and McMaster University in Ontario, Canada. He was Herodotus Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, (1978–79). His study \"The Senate of Imperial Rome\" (Princeton University Press, 1984) won the American Philological Association's Goodwin Award of Merit in 1985.\n\nFor 2000–01 Talbert was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship, an American Council of Learned Societies Senior Fellowship, and the inaugural Robert F. and Margaret S. Goheen Fellowship at the National Humanities Center in North Carolina. Talbert has served on the Council of the Classical Association of Canada, and was President of the Association of Ancient Historians (1999–2002). He was awarded the American Philological Association's Medal for Distinguished Service in 1999. He was Resident professor at the American Academy in Rome (1991), and currently chairs the Advisory Council to its School of Classical Studies. He taught at the University of Alabama in Huntsville as Eminent Scholar in the Humanities (spring 1993), and has been Visiting Professor of Classics at Princeton University (spring 1997). In 2011/12 he was the Archaeological Institute of America's Martha Sharp Joukowsky Lecturer, and Directeur d'études invité at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris. For Fall 2012 Talbert was named the first Suzanne Deal Booth Scholar-in-Residence at the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies in Rome, Italy. Talbert has directed a National Endowment for the Humanities Institute on the early Roman empire (Chapel Hill, 1991), and co-directed (with Michael Maas of Rice University) three National Endowment for the Humanities Seminars at the American Academy in Rome (2000, 2006, and 2012.). In 2017 Talbert and Maas directed an NEH summer program focused on \"Migration and Empire: The Roman Experience From Marcus Aurelius to Muhammad\".\n\nSignificant among his scholarly work is the compilation of the \"Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World\", which won the 2000 Association of American Publishers Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Multi-volume Reference Work in the Humanities. He has also completed path breaking research on the \"Tabula Peutingeriana\", a Medieval manuscript containing a copy of a likely ancient Roman map. Talbert's work, including both print and digital components, analyzes the map in an effort to situate it in terms of Roman world view.\n\nTalbert has trained many ancient historians during his tenure at the University of North Carolina.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18902799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18902799", "title": "Runcorn to Latchford Canal", "text": "Runcorn to Latchford Canal\n\nThe Runcorn to Latchford Canal (also known as the Old Quay Canal or locally as \"Old Quay Cut\" or \"Black Bear Canal\") ran from Runcorn, Cheshire to the Latchford area of Warrington, then in the historic county of Lancashire, England. It connected the Mersey and Irwell Navigation to the River Mersey at Runcorn.\n\nThe canal was built to bypass the shallow stretches of the Mersey at Fiddlers Ferry. It extended for , ending to the east of Runcorn Gap close to the centre of the township of Runcorn, and cost £48,000. At Latchford, it joined the Mersey at a lock which was located above Howley Weir. At its terminus a dock was built which became part of the Port of Runcorn. The canal was built under powers embodied in the Mersey and Irwell Navigation Act (1720) which permitted new cuts to be made without the necessity of further recourse to Parliament. It opened in July 1804. \n\nThe canal and the Mersey and Irwell Navigation were bought out by the Bridgewater Canal Company in 1844. The new owners invested little in the canal and its condition gradually grew worse. They in turn were bought out by the Manchester Ship Canal Company in the 1890s, who particularly wanted ownership of the Runcorn to Latchford Canal, as the ship canal would use the same course for part of its route. Much of the western end of the canal, including the docks at Runcorn, disappeared when the much larger ship canal was built. The eastern end fared rather better, as the section between Twenty Steps Bridge and Latchford Lock was retained. A new lock, called Twenty Steps Lock, was built where the old canal left the course of the ship canal, and it was used to supply tanneries at Howley with hides which were imported from Argentina, and this trade continued until the 1960s. This section was called the Black Bear Canal, and it ceased to be used after the tanneries closed.\n\nThe canal as built had a locks at both ends, both of which dropped into the river. As it had no natural water supply, and water was lost every time a boat passed through a lock, a feeder was built from just above Paddington Lock on the Mersey and Irwell Navigation. The water was then carried across the Mersey in an aqueduct, which also acted as a footbridge, and followed the banks of the Mersey to arrive at Latchford Lock. It emptied into the canal just to the south of the lock. When the Black Bear Canal section was created, Twenty Steps Lock also rose from the ship canal, and so the feature was retained. Latchford Lock was usually known as Manor Lock after the construction of the ship canal, as the locks immediately above its junction with the Black Bear Canal were called Latchford Locks.\n\nIn 2015 the Runcorn Locks Restoration Society launched its Unlock Runcorn campaign, which is dedicated to reopening the flight of locks in Runcorn's Old Town. The society believes that the increase in passing boat trade that would come from reopening the locks has the potential to bring economical, recreational and social benefits to people within the region.\n\nThe route diagram shows the canal as it was in the 1880s, with some later additions, including the points at which the route of the Manchester Ship Canal destroyed the canal, and features such as Twenty Steps Lock, which was built to connect a section of the original canal to the ship canal.\nTraces of the canal still exist in Wigg Island and in Moore Nature Reserve. The route of the canal forms the basis of the designated \"Linear Park\" that runs parallel to the river Mersey at Lower Walton and is clearly visible looking west from Chester Road (A5060) whilst standing on the road bridge over the River Mersey. In the distance is the \"Twelve Arches Bridge\" where arch number 3 (counted south to north) passes over where the canal would have passed. The largely dried out canal basin can be traced westwards after the bridge towards Moore Nature Reserve and then Runcorn. The canal passes east under the A5060 where it joins the Manchester Ship Canal at Latchford Locks (site of the proposed Port of Warrington). Thereafter it re-emerges in Stockton Heath just past the London Road Swing Bridge (A49) where it runs north-easterly passing under Loushers Lane Bridge until eventually passing under Knutsford Road at the site of the former Black Bear Public House. The course of the canal runs a short distance then to terminate and re-join the River Mersey close to Kingsway North Bridge.\n\nThe Wigg Island nature reserve covers and was opened in April 2002. It is named after the Wigg Chemical Works, set up in the 1860s to extract copper from ore. The works were used to produce mustard gas in the Second World War, and closed in the 1960s. While the canal was operational, a regular problem was the leaching of highly acidic effluent into the canal. Remediation work to reclaim the brownfield site has included the construction of a filter system which passes the water through a limestone-filled channel. This ensures that the water in the length of canal which crosses the site is safe and suitable for wildlife.\n\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "46953551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46953551", "title": "Sergey Kovalev (historian)", "text": "Sergey Kovalev (historian)\n\nSergey Ivanovich Kovalev (, – 12 November 1960) was a Soviet scholar of classical antiquity. He was interested particularly in the Hellenistic period, the origins of Christianity, Roman history and ancient historiography.\n\nKovalev was born in the village of Kuganak, then in Ufa Governorate of the Russian Empire. In 1910, he entered the History and Philology Department of the Saint Petersburg University, before being drafted into the military in 1915. In 1922, Kovalev graduated from the Department of Social Sciences of the Saint Petersburg University. He attained the professorship and became the Head of Department of the Ancient World in the Saint Petersburg University. He also worked in the Petersburg (then Leningrad) branch of the History Institute of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. In Greek history, Kovalev denied the concept of Dorian invasion. In 1930, Kovalev published an article on the formation of ancient Macedonian state under Philip and Alexander the Great. In 1936, Kovalev published the first comprehensive Soviet textbook on ancient history for high school. He became one of the editors of the three-volume Soviet book \"The History of Ancient World\". There he authored two chapters, \"The rise of Macedonia and the conquest of Asia\" and \"The philosophy and art of Greece during its heyday\". In 1945–48, Kovalev published his seminal work, \"The History of Rome\". In 1956–60, Kovalev was the director of the Museum of the History of Religion and Atheism.\n\nIn 1956–59, Kovalev polemicized with British scholar Archibald Robertson about the historicity of Jesus. The polemic was spurred by the Russian translation of Robertson's publication \"The Origins of Christianity\". Kovalev, who held atheistic views, clinged to the Christ myth theory. In the foreword for the Russian translation Kovalev called Robertson's recognition of Jesus' historicity \"a serious flaw\" and argued to the contrary. Robertson replied to Kovalev in the second edition of \"The Origins of Christianity\". At the same time Kovalev acknowledged the historicity of John the Baptist, Paul the Apostle and apostle James.\n"}
{"id": "9054913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9054913", "title": "Strategic nuclear weapon", "text": "Strategic nuclear weapon\n\nA strategic nuclear weapon refers to a nuclear weapon which is designed to be used on targets often in settled territory far from the battlefield as part of a strategic plan, such as military bases, military command centers, arms industries, transportation, economic, and energy infrastructure, and heavily populated areas such as cities and towns, which often contain such targets. It is contrast to a tactical nuclear weapon, which is designed for use in battle, as part of an attack with and often in close proximity to friendly conventional forces possibly on contested friendly territory.\n\nStrategic nuclear weapons generally have significantly larger yields, and typically starting from 100 kilotons up to destructive yields in the low megaton range for use especially in the enemy nations interior far from friendly forces to maximize damage especially to buried hard targets like a missile silo or wide area targets like a large bomber or naval base. However, yields can overlap, and many weapons such as the variable yield B61 nuclear bomb which could be used at low power by a fighter-bomber in an interdiction strike or at high yield dropped by a strategic bomber against an enemy submarine pen. The W89 200 kiloton (1/5Mt) warhead armed both the tactical Sea Lance area effect anti-submarine weapon for use far out at sea and the strategic bomber launched SRAM II stand off missile designed for use in the Soviet Union's interior. Indeed, the strategic attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki utilized weapons of between 10 and 20 kilotons, though this was because the \"Little Boy\" and \"Fat Man\" bombs were the most destructive (and indeed only) nuclear weapons available at the time. There is no precise definition of the \"strategic\" category, neither considering range nor yield of the nuclear weapon. The yield of tactical nuclear weapons is generally lower than that of strategic nuclear weapons, but larger ones are still very powerful, and some variable-yield warheads serve in both roles, Modern tactical nuclear warheads have yields up to the tens of kilotons, or potentially hundreds, several times that of the weapons used in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nStrategic thinking under the Eisenhower administration and Secretary of State John Foster Dulles was that of massive retaliation in the face of the Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal during this period when the many of the most destructive deployed thermonuclear weapons were developed by both superpowers, every bit of destructive power which could be delivered to the enemy's interior was considered advantageous in maintaining deterrence and would become the basis of the US strategic arsenal. Flexible response was a defense strategy first implemented by John F. Kennedy in 1961 to address the Kennedy administration's skepticism of the policy of Massive Retaliation in the face of strike options limited to total war during the Cuban Missile Crisis. This along with cost, increasingly accurate targeting, multiple warheads per delivery vehicle, and a desire for greater flexibility in targeting especially with respect to increasing sensitivity to collateral damage in some scenarios began the trend to reducing individual warhead yields in strategic weapon systems.\n\nStrategic missiles and bombers are assigned preplanned targets including enemy airfields, radars, and surface to air defenses; but this strategic mission was to eliminate the enemy nation's national defenses to allow following strategic bombers and missiles to more realistically penetrate and threaten in force the enemy nation's strategic forces, command, population, and economy rather than purely targeting military assets in near real time using tactical weapons with range and yield optimized for this type of time sensitive attack mission often in close proximity to friendly forces.\n\nEarly ICBMs had an unfavorable circular error probable (CEP); meaning the strategic missiles, and in some conditions bombers; had low targeting accuracy. Additionally much early cold war strategic asset construction was above ground soft targets or minimally hardened such as airfields, pre-nuclear command and control installations, defensive infrastructure, even ICBM bases. When every missile carried only one poorly guided warhead designing systems with massive warhead yields in order to cause a huge damage footprint, with the possibility of potentially destroying several nearby soft targets of opportunity, while also increasing the likelihood that the primary target was within the overlap of CEP and destruction circle the highest possible yield warhead for the missile was considered an advantage. The enemy being targeted a continent away there was a low ratio of side effects to friendly areas when contrasted to potential damage to enemy assets. As navigation technology improved accuracy or CEP and many missiles and nearly all bombers were equipped with multiple nuclear warheads the trend was to reduce warhead yield both for weight as well as to give more flexibility in targeting with respect to collateral damage, target hardening also created a situation where even a very large warhead with excellent targeting would still only destroy one target gaining no advantage to its large weight and expense vs several smaller MIRVs.\n\nA feature of strategic nuclear weapons, especially in the transcontinental nature of the U.S.-USSR cold war with continent spanning superpower enemies that are oceans apart, is the greater range of their delivery apparatus (e.g. ICBMs), giving them the ability to threaten the enemy's command and control structure and national infrastructure, even though they are based many thousands of miles away in friendly territory. Intercontinental ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads are the primary strategic nuclear weapons, while short-range missiles are tactical. In addition, while tactical weapons are designed to meet battlefield objectives without destroying nearby friendly forces, one main purpose of strategic weapons is in the deterrence role, under the theory of mutually assured destruction. In the case of two small bordering nations, a strategic weapon could have a quite short range and still be designed or intended for strategic targeting. Specifically on the Korean peninsula with a nuclear armed North Korea facing off against a NPT compliant South Korea there have been calls to request a return US owned short range low yield nuclear weapons, nomenclatured as tactical by the US military, to provide a local strategic deterrent to the North's growing domestically produced nuclear arsenal and delivery systems.\n\nAfter the Cold War, the tactical nuclear weapon stockpiles of NATO and Russia were greatly reduced. Highly accurate strategic missiles like the Trident II can also be used in substrategic, tactical strikes.\n\nAccording to several reports including by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists quote Russian sources that as a result of the effectiveness and acceptability of USAF use of precision munitions with little collateral damage in the Kosovo conflict in what amounted to strategic destruction once only possible with nuclear weapons or massive bombing against fellow Slavic Serbians. Vladimir Putin, then Russian defense minister formulated a concept of using both tactical and strategic nuclear threats and strikes to de-escalate or cause an enemy to disengage from a conventional conflict threatening what Russia considered a strategic interest. This concept was formalized when Putin took power in Russia in the following year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4488510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488510", "title": "Timeline of the history of scientific method", "text": "Timeline of the history of scientific method\n\nThis timeline of the history of scientific method shows an overview of the cultural inventions that have contributed to the development of the scientific method. For a detailed account, see History of the scientific method.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52003176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52003176", "title": "UDIK", "text": "UDIK\n\nUDIK, the Association for Social Research and Communications (Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, Montenegrin: \"Udruženje za društvena istraživanja i komunikacije\"/ Удружење за друштвена истраживања и комуникације) commonly known as UDIK, is a Bosnian regional non-governmental organization with offices in Sarajevo and Brčko. It was founded in 2013 by Edvin Kanka Ćudić that aimed to gather facts, documents, and data on genocide, war crimes, and human rights violations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the former Yugoslavia.\n\nUDIK was founded in 2013 by Edvin Kanka Ćudić. It aimed to gather facts, documents, and data on genocide, war crimes, and human rights violations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and former Yugoslavia. UDIK works across national boundaries to assist post-conflict societies within the region reestablish the rule of law and deal with past human rights abuses. UDIK also implements a victim-oriented Transitional Justice programme with three principal components:\n\nUDIK was made up of independent members, intellectuals and professionals from different academic disciplines.\n\nSince 2013, UDIK has organized a large number of commemorations to the victims of past war in the former Yugoslavia (1991-2001). UDIK calls this commemorations the Living monument. The ceremonies were organized in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Sarajevo, Tuzla, Brčko, Zenica, Višegrad, Foča), Croatia (Zagreb, Vukovar) and Serbia (Belgrade, Prijepolje). Thanks to this initiative, for the first time, many commemorations were organized. These commemorations were related to crimes against civilian victims of Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats.\n\nThe activities that got the most attention were the commemoration of the non-Bosniak victims of the crimes committed in Sarajevo's Kazani and commemorations of Serbian victims of the crimes in Operation Storm organized in Sarajevo and Zagreb. \n\nIn May 2015, Federal Ministry of Interior of the Bosnia and Herzegovina banned the Sarajevo's commemoration of Serbian victims of the crimes committed in Operation Storm. In May 2016 the same commemoration was banned by Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia, but in the end it was held in Zagreb with high police security.\n\nThe criticism generally falls into the category of alleged bias, often in response to UDIK's commemorations to the Yugoslav wars victims. Bias allegations include the organization's insistence on war crimes on Serbs or Croats which was committed by the ARBiH. Bosniak right-wing media in Bosnia think that certain crimes against Serbs or Croats which was committed by the ARBiH were legitimate military targets against the aggressor while UDIK believes that Bosniaks must take responsibility for the killings of civilians in those crimes. \n\nOn the other hand, Serbian nationalists believe that the UDIK is Soros-funded advocacy group who organizes commemorations not to express sympathy, but rather to gather political points.\n\nIn December 2015, UDIK team began to research and compile a register of memorials for victims of the Yugoslav wars (1991-2001) including Bosniaks, Croats, Serbs and Others who were killed or disappeared during the armed conflicts in Yugoslavia (1991–2001) with the aim of creating the Central register of memorials on the territory of the former Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRJ) that would serve to curb attempts at historical revisionism and manipulative use of the numbers of victims.\n\nThe register is based on analysis of documents from municipalities, cities, museums, tourist organizations, Islamic Community of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbian Orthodox Church, ministries of veterans including newspaper reports from the period, internet, publications, associations of veterans and families of the dead, etc.\n\nIn 2016, UDIK published the first results of the Central rеgister of memorials for Bosnia and Herzegovina, listing more than 2.100 memorials to the victims of Bosnian War (1992-1995). Next year (2017), UDIK also published more than 1.200 memorials built in Croatia dedicated to the victims of Homeland War (1991-1995).\n\nThe register also includes examples of the controversial memorials that were built after 1991 in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and which glorify fascism and hatred among the people of the former Yugoslavia.\n\nThe Central register of memorials of the Yugoslav wars (1991–2001) is still the only register of memorials to victims of the Yugoslav wars on the territory of the countries of the former Yugoslavia.\n\nUDIK every year publishes documents about war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. UDIK has published extensively on subjects such as war crimes, massacres and human rights violations from 1992 to 1995 in Foča, Višegrad, Sarajevo's Grbavica, Trusina, etc.\n\nUDIK's publications about war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina are available at the Library of Congress in United States.\n\nIn 2015, UDIK co-operated with the ICMP on the occasion of marking the International Day of the Disappeared, a commemoration designed to raise public awareness about the issue of missing persons from armed conflict and human rights abuses.\n\nIn 2017, UDIK co-operated with the Sarajevo Film Festival in the Dealing with the Past program at the True Stories Market.\n\n"}
{"id": "20135897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20135897", "title": "Use of costume in Athenian tragedy", "text": "Use of costume in Athenian tragedy\n\nSome authors have argued that use of costume in Athenian tragedy was standardized for the genre. This is said to have consisted of a full-length or short tunic, a cloak and soft leather boots, and may have been derived from the robes of Dionysian priests or invented by Aeschylus. Brockett, however, disputes this, arguing that the evidence we have is based on archaeological remains, some few references in the texts, and the writings of later authors. As far as the vase paintings are concerned, most of these are dated later than the 5th Century BCE and their relationship with theatrical practice is unclear. One of the earliest examples is a red-figure vase painting c. 500-490 BCE that shows a tragic chorus invoking a ghost, on a crater (bowl) in the Antikenmuseum in Basle.\n\nThe tragic actors were certainly heavily disguised. This had a religious purpose, for the actor was supposed to give up his identity in order to let another speak and act through him. Indeed, the dramas were performed in honour of Dionysus, the God of Ecstasy, which means “standing outside oneself”. Actors therefore had to renounce their individuality. The actors thought that the mask itself contained the character and are said to have prayed before putting on their masks. The costume was probably an elaborately-decorated version of everyday clothing worn in the 5th Century BCE. The garments included:\n\n\nThe \"chiton\" worn by the actors differed from that worn in everyday life because it incorporated sleeves, which were coloured and patterned. The sleeves may in fact have been part of an undergarment. Long white sleeves were worn by the (male) actors for female roles, and indeed, in vase paintings females are usually painted with lighter skin.\n\nThe costumes worn for the performances of \"Alcestis\", for example, were iconographic, and symbolised the opposition of light and dark. In the play, life is evoked as the act of seeing the sun. Death – the son of Night in Greek mythology - wears a black peplos and black wings. Apollo wears white, representing the sun. Admetus contrasts the black of the funeral procession with the white of the funeral procession. The corpse of Alcestis is dressed as a bride, in accordance with Greek tradition and Herakles wears a bearskin and carries a club.\n\nThe costumes worn gave the audience an immediate sense of character-type, gender, age, social status and class.\n\nAround the time of Aeschylus, the boots or buskins worn by the actors were flat. The actors had the same “status” as the chorus. In the 3rd Century BCE, the actors were raised to the status of heroes and “platform” soles began to be used, together with a head-dress called an \"onkos\". The raised soles may have induced a stylised way of walking, suited to the rhythm of tragic verse, and the \"onkos\" made the actors taller, enhancing visibility. Their bodies were padded so that they did not look too slim. However, some authors believe that this happened later than the 3rd Century BCE. It is also thought that the “teetering gait” is a misapprehension.\n\nThe masks were the most striking feature of the costume worn by the Athenian actors. Facial expression was lost anyway due to the huge size of the Greek theatres, but the masks were also a means of blotting out expression, so visual meaning was expressed by the entire body. The actors were seen as silhouettes, or integral bodies, rather than faces. The masks themselves were made of stiffened linen, thin clay, cork or wood, and covered the whole head and had hair.\n\nAttempts have been made in modern times to investigate the use of masks in Athenian tragedy through practice research. These explorations conclude that masks may lead to a more demonstrative style of acting, with declamatory delivery of the lines substituted for intimacy. They also found that the mask could impede the projection of sound. The Greeks are said to have overcome this in various ways. Initially, the mouth apertures were small, but later this became a “wide-open” mouth. Some authors believe that the mouth was shaped like a “mouth-trumpet” and had an amplifying effect. Certainly, the use of a mask covering the whole produces an enhanced resonating effect, which serves dramatic delivery.\n\nPerformances therefore had to be more physical. Peter Arnott states that the Greeks thought good acting and a good voice were synonymous. This was achieved through athletic training, voice exercises and diet.\n\nExperiments have shown that unaccustomed actors suffer disorientation and restriction when masked. The Greeks countered this through a vocabulary of gesture known as \"cheironomia\" (gesticulation). Aristotle says that in his day excessive gestures were used – leading to overacting – compared with the older tradition.\n\nMasks can also be used as a dramatic tool, e.g. lowering the masks shows reflection, raising the mask shows a challenge or superiority. The Greeks called these physical stances \"schemata\" (forms).\n\nSilent masks were used to great effect, particularly on child actors, expressing powerlessness, bewilderment, vulnerability, etc.\n\nThe use of masks enabled the three speaking actors to portray up to eight or nine characters, through multiple role-playing. The same character could therefore be played by different actors, and transitions within a character would be portrayed by the use of different masks.\n\nThe wide variety of masks used is attested by Pollux, a rhetorician writing in 2nd Century CE, in his \"Onomastikon\". He lists 30 different male masks (old age with white or grey hair, the tyrant with thick black hair, a fair, pale masks indicating sorrow or sickness, a boastful soldier, a rustic, servants, a cook, etc.) and 17 female masks (fat and thin old women, two matrons, one virgin, a bawd, a mistress, three courtesans, a lady’s maid, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "380102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380102", "title": "Victoria County History", "text": "Victoria County History\n\nThe Victoria History of the Counties of England, commonly known as the Victoria County History or the VCH, is an English history project which began in 1899 and was dedicated to Queen Victoria with the aim of creating an encyclopaedic history of each of the historic counties of England. In 2012 the project was rededicated to Queen Elizabeth II in celebration of her Diamond Jubilee year. Since 1933 the project has been coordinated by the Institute of Historical Research in the University of London.\n\nThe history of the VCH falls into three main phases, defined by different funding regimes: an early phase, 1899–1914, when the project was conceived as a commercial enterprise, and progress was rapid; a second more desultory phase, 1914–1947, when relatively little progress was made; and the third phase beginning in 1947, when, under the auspices of the Institute of Historical Research, a high academic standard was set, and progress has been slow but reasonably steady. These phases have also been characterised by changing attitudes towards the proper scope of English local history. The early volumes were planned on the model of traditional English county histories, with a strong emphasis on manorial descents, the advowsons of parish churches, and the local landed gentry: a prospectus of c. 1904 stated that \"there is \"no Englishman\" to whom [the VCH] does not in some one or other of its features make a direct appeal\". More recent volumes – especially those published since the 1950s – have been more wide-ranging in their approach, and have included systematic coverage of social and economic history, industrial history, population history, educational history, landscape history, religious nonconformity, and so on: individual parish histories have consequently grown considerably in length and complexity.\n\nFrom 1902 the joint general editors were H. Arthur Doubleday and William Page. Doubleday resigned (in acrimonious circumstances) in 1904, leaving Page as sole general editor until his death in 1934. In 1932 Page bought the rights to the ailing project for a nominal sum, donating it to the Institute of Historical Research the following year. Page was succeeded as general editor by L.F. Salzman, who remained in post until 1949. The early volumes depended heavily on the efforts of a large number of young research workers, mostly female, fresh from degree courses at Oxford, Cambridge, London or the Scottish universities, for whom other employment opportunities were limited: the VCH of this period has been described as \"a history for gentlemen largely researched by ladies\".\n\nFrom 1909 until 1931 Frederick Smith, later 2nd Viscount Hambleden, was the VCH's major sponsor. In February 2005 the Heritage Lottery Fund awarded the VCH £3,374,000 to fund the England's Past for Everyone project, which ran from September that year until February 2010.\n\nThe first VCH volume was published in 1901, and publication continued slowly throughout the 20th century, although in some counties it has come to a halt, especially during the First World War and again in the 1970s. Some inactive counties have recently been reactivated.\n\nThere are now more than 230 VCH volumes, with around three new volumes published per year. Each is published with a red cover, and they are therefore sometimes known as \"the big red books\". When the Institute of Historical Research published a short history of the project to mark the 75th anniversary of taking it over, it was titled \"The Little Big Red Book\". A special edition Jubilee book was published in 2012, \"A Diamond Jubilee Celebration 1899-2012.\"\n\nA map showing the publication status appears on the VCH website.\n\nFrom its inception, responsibility for writing the volumes was delegated to local editors for each individual county. The county editors traditionally worked under the direction of a general editor, following a uniform format and style.\n\nIn general, the histories begin with one or more volumes of general studies of the county as a whole, including major themes, such as religious history, agriculture, industries, population (with summary tables of decennial census totals 1801–1901), and an introduction to and translation of the relevant section of Domesday Book. These volumes are followed by others consisting of detailed historical surveys of each Hundred, Wapentake (discussed in separate Riding (country subdivision) volumes) and Ward (country subdivision), parish by parish. At first, ancient ecclesiastical parishes formed the unit of investigation, but \"since the mid-1950s the VCH parish is the civil parish, the modern successor of the ancient parishes or of townships within them. Large towns are dealt with as a whole, including, since the 1960s, built-up areas of adjoining, formerly rural parishes.\n\nUnder the original plan, each county, in addition to its general and topographical volumes, was to have a genealogical volume containing the pedigrees of county families. Genealogical volumes were published in a large folio format for Northamptonshire (1906) and Hertfordshire (1907), but the research costs were found to be excessive, and this side of the project was discontinued.\n\nSome of the county histories have been completed. For each of these, the number of volumes published and the date of completion is as follows:\n\n\nFor each uncompleted county history on which work is continuing (i.e.: \"active\" in VCH terminology), the number of volumes published and the dates of the most recent are as follows:\n\n\n\n(produced its own, non-VCH, history in 15 volumes, published by the Northumberland County History Committee, completed in 1940)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "858424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858424", "title": "Victory column", "text": "Victory column\n\nA victory column—or monumental column or triumphal column—is a monument in the form of a column, erected in memory of a victorious battle, war, or revolution. The column typically stands on a base and is crowned with a victory symbol, such as a statue. The statue may represent the goddess Victoria; in Germany, the female embodiment of the nation, Germania; in the United States either female embodiment of the nation Liberty or Columbia; in the United Kingdom, the female embodiment Britannia; an eagle; or a war hero.\n\n\nPart of this page is based on the article in the .\n"}
{"id": "2933331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2933331", "title": "Zawgyi (writer)", "text": "Zawgyi (writer)\n\nZawgyi (, ; born Thein Han (, ); 12 April 1907 - 26 September 1990) was a distinguished and leading Burmese poet, author, literary historian, critic, scholar and academic. His name, Zawgyi is literally a mythical wizard from Burmese folklore. He was one of the leaders of the \"Hkit san\" (Testing the Times) movement in Burmese literature searching for a new style and content before the Second World War, along with Theippan Maung Wa, Nwe Soe and Min Thu Wun. His first \"hkit san\" poetry,\"Padauk pan\" (Padauk flower), was published in \"Hantha Kyemon\" pamphlet.\n\nHis most memorable work was a play titled \"Maha hsan gyinthu\", an adaptation of Molière's \"Le bourgeois gentilhomme\", published in 1934. His most famous poem was \"Beida lan\" (\"The Hyacinth's Way\") that traces a journey through life's ups and downs, published in 1963.\n\nZawgyi was the eldest in a family of nine. He won the \"Thissawardi\" Prize (5 gold sovereigns) from the \"Thissawardi\" newspaper for the poem \"Sittathukha Linga\", translated from the English poet Henry Wotton's \"The Character of a Happy Life\". He went on to the University of Rangoon, passed the intermediate level with credits in Burmese and won the \"Tha Doe Aung\" prize.\n\nAfter graduating with a B.A. in 1929, majoring in Burmese literature, English literature, Oriental and Far East History, Zawgyi became a tutor in the Burmese Department at the university. In 1931, Zawgyi returned to the Myoma High School to teach until 1934. After achieving the MA degree from the Rangoon University in 1936, he became a tutor in Burmese at the Mandalay Intermediate College until 1938 when he went to England to study at the University of London and then at the University of Dublin for the Diploma in Library Science.\n\nIn 1941, Zawgyi became Librarian at the University of Rangoon. He married Saw Yin (B.A., B.Ed.). During World War II Zawgyi became Deputy Director General (Literature and Libraries Division) at the Ministry of Education. After the war he returned to his old job as Librarian at the University of Rangoon (called Yangon in Burmese), then from 1947 to 1948 Special Officer for the Legislative Council and Elections Office. He was awarded the honour of \"Wunna Kyawhtin\" for distinguished service by the government.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1952, Zawgyi travelled as part of a delegation to Indonesia, Britain, United States, Mexico and Canada. From 1951 to 1957 he was Director of the Textbooks Committee at the Ministry of Education. In 1955 Zawgyi won the \"Sarpay Beikman\" \"variety in literature\" (\"sa padetha\") prize for \"Thakin Kodaw Hmaing htika\". He then became Chairman of the Burma History Commission in 1959.\n\nThe year 1961 saw him as Emeritus Professor of Burmese at the University of Rangoon and was awarded the honour of \"Thiri Pyanchi\" by the government. He was also President of the Technical Terms Committee and the National Literary Awards Selection Committee. He retired as Librarian of the Universities Central Library in 1967. He was then appointed First Special Officer for Education, President of the Burma Research Society and Adviser for the Burma History Commission.\n\nIn 1976 he visited India with Khin Zaw (the author and translator \"K\") where he read a paper on the Ramayana. In 1979 Zawgyi won the National Literary Award for \"\"Nin-la-hè chit dukkha\" (\"Damn You, Broken Heart\") and Other Short Stories\", and in 1987, another for \"Ancient Bagan and Other Poems\".\n\nWhen Zawgyi died at the age of 83, on 26 September 1990, he left wife Saw Yin and their three daughters, Dr. Khin Myo Han, Dr. Khin Hla Han and Dr. Khin Ohn Han. His family, students and colleagues created the \"Zawgyi prize\" and \"Ganda Lawka Thingaha prize\" for outstanding diploma students in Library and Information Studies and Masters students in Burmese.\n\n\n"}
