{"id": "22565743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22565743", "title": "1998 California Proposition 227", "text": "1998 California Proposition 227\n\nProposition 227 was a California ballot proposition passed on the June 2, 1998, ballot. Proposition 227 was repealed by Proposition 58 on November 8, 2016.\n\nAccording to Ballotpedia, \"Proposition 227 changed the way that \"Limited English Proficient\" (LEP) students are taught in California. Specifically, it\n\nThe bill's intention was to educate Limited English proficiency students in a rapid, one-year program. It was sponsored by Ron Unz, the runner-up candidate in the 1994 Republican gubernatorial primary. The proposition was controversial because of its close proximity to heated political issues including race, immigration, and poverty. The methods of education enacted by the proposition reflected the electorate's support of assimilation over multiculturalism. It passed with a margin of 61% to 39%.\n\nOn September 28, 2014, the state legislature passed, and Governor Jerry Brown signed, Senate Bill 1174, which added Proposition 58 to the November 2016 ballot. Proposition 58, which repealed most of Proposition 227, passed by a wide margin. \n\nThe number of bilingual credentials fell after Proposition 227's passage. A California Department of Education spokesperson anticipated a shortage of bilingual teachers after the passage of Proposition 58.\n\n"}
{"id": "21471286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21471286", "title": "Audio induction loop", "text": "Audio induction loop\n\nAudio induction loop systems, also called audio-frequency induction loops (AFILs) or hearing loops, are an assistive listening technology for individuals with reduced ranges of hearing.\n\nA hearing loop consists of a physical loop of cable or an array of loops of cable which are placed around a designated area, usually a room or a building. The cable generates a magnetic field throughout the looped space which can be picked up by a hearing aid, cochlear implant (CI) processors, and specialized hand-held hearing loop receivers for individuals without telecoil compatible hearing aids.\n\nThe loops carry baseband audio-frequency currents; no carrier signal is used. The benefit is that it allows the sound source of interest—whether a musical performance or a ticket taker's side of the conversation—to be transmitted to the hearing-impaired listener clearly and free of other distracting noise in the environment. Typical installation sites include concert halls, ticket kiosks, high-traffic public buildings (for PA announcements), auditoriums, places of worship, courtrooms, meeting rooms, and homes.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, as an aid for disability, their provision, where reasonably possible, is required by the Equality Act 2010 and previously by the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, and they are available in \"the back seats of all London taxis, which have a little microphone embedded in the dashboard in front of the driver; at 18,000 post offices in the U.K.; at most churches and cathedrals\", according to Prof. David G. Myers.\n\nIn the United States, an alternative technology using FM transmission to \"neck loop\" receivers was more widely adopted due to economic advantages. In comparison, hearing loop systems require a greater initial investment by the facility operator, but offer greater convenience and avoid the social stigma and hygienic concerns entailed by the FM system's paraphernalia for those who have hearing aids.\n\nAnother alternative system, used primarily in theatres, uses invisible infrared radiation; compatible headsets can pick up the modulated infrared energy to reproduce sound.\n\nThe pickup coil in a hearing aid is known as a telecoil (or T-coil) because its early form was to pick up a magnetic field from coils within a telephone. These were included as a part of the method of enabling a two-way conversation over a single pair of wires. The telecoil enabled hearing aid user hears the phone conversation clearly without also picking up background noise.\n\nFrom this, the natural development was to generate audio magnetic fields which the telecoil could receive.\n\nThe simple form of AFIL is a single wire around a room, driven from a power amplifier as a loudspeaker would be driven. The coupling of magnetic fields is described mathematically by Faraday's law of induction. A summary of the theory necessary for AFILs is included in British Standard BS 7594, which is a guide to the design and installation of induction loops.\n\nThe simple form of AFIL using a general purpose amplifier suffers from some disadvantages. The loop driver amplifier requires some additional circuits to overcome these. Using anything other than a correctly designed loop driver amplifier is not only unsatisfactory, but may result in a loop installation that can generate harmonics when driven into distortion, and these will cause radio interference. This must be prevented, both for sound quality and for legal reasons as it is illegal to cause such interference in these circumstances. In Europe, the EMC Directive applies, and it is also illegal to supply or install unsuitable electronic and electrical equipment.\n\nA second factor is that many forms of hearing impairment mean that sound levels must be kept fairly constant. An effective loop driver will have an automatic level control providing a constant loop signal for a wide range of source levels. Meeting this requirement is likely to meet the interference requirement at the same time. To do this, the loop driver should give constant output for at least 30dB input range.\n\nA third problem is the inductance of the loop cable, and its effect upon the higher frequencies of sound. To overcome this, many loop drivers operate as current mode amplifiers instead of voltage mode. By setting the amplifier characteristic between voltage and current mode, the overall performance is optimised for good bandwidth with minimum distortion. There are other options for reducing the effect of cable inductance, including reducing inductance with a multi-core cable where the conductors are connected in parallel.\n\nStructural steel, and other metalwork in buildings can cause a problem by reducing the field strength unevenly across the loop area and causing frequency distortions. In most cases, a solution can be found using combinations of loops with phase shift between them, combined with frequency correction and increased signal strength.\n\nThere are many different ways to configure conductive loops to give different patterns of magnetic fields and solve different technical problems such as the presence of metal structures.\n\nAudio induction loops create fairly high magnetic field levels. Other equipment must be designed and installed to work properly within this field.\n\nThe most common cause of problems is earth loops, where different pieces of equipment are connected together by signal wires, but powered from different power sockets in different parts of the room or building. The combination of the mains earth and signal earth creates a receiving loop that produces an interference signal proportional to the area within the earth loop. Various steps are used to prevent interference on audio and video equipment. Powering signal sources and output devices from the same mains circuit to prevent formation of an earth loop; shielded cables or signal isolators may be used.\n\nAn objective of the field strength requirements of standards for AFILs is to make the perceived loudness of sound from the loop the same as from the microphone in the hearing aid. This is the basis of the average field strength of 100mA/m used to generate today's performance standards around the world.\n\nIEC 60118-4 (formerly Britain's BS 6083 part 4, also known as EN 60118-4) is now the main specification for international use. This is based on the principle that the long term average of the field strength at a typical listening location must be 100mA/m, +- 3 dB. To determine this long term average requires a measurement over 60 seconds or more. The standard therefore sets a more pragmatic requirement for determining the short term peaks of the signal. Short term peaks need to be 12 dB (x4) higher than the long term average, based on the fact that peaks of speech are approximately 12 dB higher than the long term average level of speech. Therefore, an induction loop system or AFILS must be capable of delivering field strength peaks of 400mA/m +- 3 dB (280 to 560mA/m). Peaks must be measured using fast RMS measurement (125ms averaging time).\n\nIn addition the IEC 60118-4 standard sets limits on acceptable background noise, and requires that the system delivers frequency response of +- 3 dB from 100 Hz to 5 kHz relative to the field strength at 1 kHz. All measurements must be made with a coil that picks up only the vertical component of the magnetic field, the component that is picked up by the telecoil of a hearing aid.\n\nBS 7594 (published by the BSI and widely used in Britain) is a non-mandatory guideline for the design and installation of induction loops. It has a comprehensive guide to theory, as well as guidance for those considering the installation of AFILs in buildings for which they may be responsible. It also contains some valuable guidance relating to other equipment within the loop area. The calibration of field strength measuring devices is also included.\n"}
{"id": "1419558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1419558", "title": "BRAC (organization)", "text": "BRAC (organization)\n\nBRAC, an international development organisation based in Bangladesh, is the largest non-governmental development organisation in the world, in terms of number of employees as of September 2016. Established by Sir Fazle Hasan Abed in 1972 after the independence of Bangladesh, BRAC is present in all 64 districts of Bangladesh as well as 13 other countries in Asia, Africa, and the Americas.\n\nBRAC states that it employs over 100,000 people, roughly 70 percent of whom are women, and that it reaches more than 126 million people with its services. The organisation is partly self-funded through a number of social enterprises that include a dairy and food project, a chain of retail handicraft stores called Aarong, seed and Agro, and chicken. BRAC has operations in 14 countries of the world.\n\nKnown formerly as the Bangladesh Rehabilitation Assistance Committee, then as the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee, and later as Building Resources Across Communities, BRAC was initiated in 1972 by Sir Fazlé Hasan Abed at Shallah Upazillah in the district of Sunamganj as a small-scale relief and rehabilitation project to help returning war refugees after the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. 14 thousand homes had to be rebuilt as part of the relief effort, as well as several hundred fishing boats; BRAC claims to have done this within nine months, as well as opening medical centres and providing other essential services.\n\nUntil the mid-1970s, BRAC concentrated on community development through village development programmes that included agriculture, fisheries, cooperatives, rural crafts, adult literacy, health and family planning, vocational training for women and construction of community centres. A Research and Evaluation Division (RED) was set up to evaluate its activities and decide direction, and in 1977, BRAC began taking a more targeted approach by creating Village Organisations (VO) to assist the landless, small farmers, artisans, and vulnerable women. That same year BRAC set up a commercial printing press to help finance its activities. The handicraft retail chain called Aarong, was established the following year.\n\nIn 1979, BRAC entered the health field by establishing a nationwide Oral Therapy Extension Programme (OTEP), a campaign to combat diarrhoea, the leading cause of the high child mortality rate in Bangladesh. Non Formal Primary Education was started by BRAC in 1985.\n\nIn 1986, BRAC started its Rural Development Programme that incorporated four major activities – institution building including functional education and training, credit operation, income and employment generation and support service programmes. \n\nIn 1991, the Women's Health Development program commenced. The following year BRAC established a Centre for Development Management (CDM) in Rajendrapur. \n\nIts Social Development, Human Rights and Legal Services programme was launched in 1996. \n\nIn 1998, BRAC's Dairy and Food project was commissioned. BRAC launched an Information Technology Institute the following year. \n\nIn 2001, BRAC established a university called BRAC University.\n\nMicrofinance, introduced in 1974, is BRAC's oldest programme. It spans all districts of Bangladesh. It provides collateral-free loans to mostly poor, landless, rural women, enabling them to generate income and improve their standards of living. BRAC's microcredit program has funded over $1.9 billion in loans in its first 40 years. 95% of BRACs microloan customers are women. According to BRAC, the repayment rate is over 98%.. BRAC started community empowerment programme back in 1988 all over the country.\n\nBRAC founded its retail outlet, Aarong (Bengali for \"village fair\") in 1978 to market and distribute products made by indigenous peoples. Aarong services about 65,000 artisans, and sells gold and silver jewelry, hand loom, leather crafts, etc.\n\nBRAC is one of the largest NGOs involved in primary education in Bangladesh. As of the end of 2012, it had more than 22,700 non-formal primary schools with a combined enrolment of 670,000 children. Its schools constitute three-quarters of all NGO non-formal primary schools in the country.\n\nBRAC's education programme provides non-formal primary education to those left out of the formal education system, especially poor, rural, or disadvantaged children, and drop-outs. Its schools are typically one room with one teacher and no more than 33 students. Core subjects include mathematics, social studies and English. The schools also offer extracurricular activities. They incentivise schooling by providing food, allowing flexible learning hours, and conferring scholarships contingent on academic performance.\n\nBangladesh has reduced the gap between male and female attendance in schools. The improvement in female enrollment, which has largely been at the primary level, is in part attributable to BRAC. Roughly 60% of the students in their schools are girls.\n\nBRAC started providing public healthcare in 1972 with an initial focus on curative care through paramedics and a self-financing health insurance scheme. The programme went on to offer integrated health care services.\n\nBRAC's 2007 impact assessment of its North West Microfinance Expansion Project testified to increased awareness of legal issues, including those of marriage and divorce, among women participants in BRAC programs. Furthermore, women participants' self-confidence was boosted and incidence of domestic violence were found to have declined. One of the most prominent forms of violence against women, acid throwing, has been decreasing by 15-20% annually since the enactment in 2002 of legislation specifically targeting acid violence.\n\nBRAC conducted one of the largest NGO responses to Cyclone Sidr which hit vast areas of the south-western coast in Bangladesh in mid-November 2007. BRAC distributed emergency relief materials, including food and clothing, to over 900,000 survivors, provided medical care to over 60,000 victims and secured safe supplies of drinking water. BRAC is now focusing on long-term rehabilitation, which will include agriculture support, infrastructure reconstruction and livelihood regeneration.\n\nBRAC has a collaboration with Nike's Girl Effect campaign to launch a new program to reach out to teenagers in Uganda and Tanzania.\n\nIn 2006 BRAC received donations from Directorate-General for International Cooperation (DGIS) and Government of the Netherlands / Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands (EKN).\n\nIn 2011 the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) joined the list of BRAC donors.\n\nIn 2012 the Department for International Development (DFID), Government of the UK and Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT), and Australian Government (SPA) (under the strategic partnership arrangement) became BRAC donors as well. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21957255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21957255", "title": "C. L. E. Moore instructor", "text": "C. L. E. Moore instructor\n\nThe job title of C. L. E. Moore instructor is given by the Math Department at Massachusetts Institute of Technology to recent math Ph.D.s hired for their promise in pure mathematics research. The instructors are expected to do both teaching and research. Past C. L. E. Moore instructors include John Nash, Walter Rudin, Elias Stein, as well as three Fields medal winners: Paul Cohen, Daniel Quillen, and Curtis T. McMullen. The current collection of MIT faculty with this title may be found here.\n\nThe instructorships are named after Clarence Lemuel Elisha Moore (1876–1931), who was a mathematics professor, specializing in geometry, at MIT from 1904 until his death.\n\nPast holders of the position include\nTom Apostol,\nKefeng Liu,\nSheldon Axler,\nAlexander Braverman,\nEgbert Brieskorn,\nFelix Browder,\nPaul Cohen,\nCharles C. Conley,\nCaterina Consani\nNils Dencker,\nGeorge Duff,\nLawrence Ein, \nJohn Forbes Nash Jr.,\nDaniel S. Freed,\nHarry Furstenberg,\nJohn Garnett,\nMark Goresky,\nHelen G. Grundman,\nJoe Harris,\nSigurður Helgason,\nLars Hesselholt,\nEleny Ionel,\nVadim Kaloshin,\nYael Karshon,\nAlexander Kechris,\nAnthony Knapp,\nNancy Kopell,\nIrwin Kra,\nKefeng Liu, \nMatilde Marcolli,\nKevin McCrimmon,\nCurtis McMullen,\nWilliam Messing,\nEmmy Murphy,\nIrena Peeva,\nDaniel Quillen,\nDaniel G. Rider, \nWalter Rudin,\nRobert Rumely,\nJames Serrin,\nWilliam Shaw,\nJoseph H. Silverman,\nJames Simons,\nIsadore M. Singer,\nHart F. Smith,\nKaren E. Smith,\nGeorge Springer,\nRichard P. Stanley,\nJames D. Stasheff,\nElias Stein,\nRobert Strichartz,\nAlessandro Figà Talamanca,\nShang-Hua Teng,\nEdward Thorp,\nDouglas Ulmer,\nAkshay Venkatesh,\nRobert Thomason,\nChelsea Walton,\nGerard Washnitzer, \nAlan Weinstein, and \nZhiwei Yun.\n\n"}
{"id": "43234619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43234619", "title": "Catholic Schools Board Limited", "text": "Catholic Schools Board Limited\n\nCatholic Schools Board Limited is a private company, originally established by the Archdiocese of Wellington. It was established when Wellington Catholic schools began integrating into the state system. The Catholic Schools Board Limited manages school property and attendance dues. Attendance dues are a legal obligation of enrolment in Catholic schools and are not a donation or tax deductible. The Palmerston North Diocese schools are now also managed by Catholic Schools Board Limited.\n\nThe Catholic Religious Order or Diocese who own each school add to funding received by the Catholic Schools Board Limited.\n"}
{"id": "42911474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42911474", "title": "Centre for Sustainability and Environmental Management / Brunel Management Programme", "text": "Centre for Sustainability and Environmental Management / Brunel Management Programme\n\nThe major activities of the Centre for Sustainability and Environmental Management / Brunel Management Programme (CSEM-BMP) are research, consultancy and post-graduate and seminar level education and training. All its activities are aimed at supporting the development of sustainable businesses in the UK and world-wide.\n\nProfessor Ross King is Joint Programme Director of CSEM-BMP.\n\n</div>\n\nCSEM-BMP was founded as the Brunel Environmental Management Programme (BEMP) or the Environmental Management Centre (EMC) within the Brunel Management Programme (BMP) by Ken Knight and Ross King. The EMC later became the Centre for Sustainable and Environmental Management (CSEM), then the Centre for Sustainability and Environmental Management (CSEM) and is now known as CSEM-BMP.\n\nThrough the EMC, BMP offered the first and largest broad senior level environmental management programme in Europe.\n\nBy 1993 the BEMP had organised 39 short courses, with 380 attendees.\n\nThe EMC established the first modular masters degree in Environmental Management in 1993 / 1994.\n\nBy the end of 1994 about 1000 managers had attended EMC courses.\n\nFrom that time the focus of the EMC was on both identifying and disseminating the requisite management knowledge and theory so that directors and managers could lead their organizations towards economically advantageous environmental and social sustainability.\n\nWork has been done by CSEM-BMP on management development provision for each business function (such as purchasing, operations, marketing, and logistics) rethinking the function from a sustainability perspective, so that each function can relieve overburdened environmental specialists.\n\nIn 2010 CSEM-BMP offered the Sustainability Leadership Programme (SLP) of Integrated Sustainability Management for Business. The programme offered by CSEM-BMP is for developing leadership and management. The programme is designed against the curriculum for an MBA, is based on sustainability principles and designed to meet the needs of each business function, process and level. It is designed for the needs of senior functional managers, those wishing to move into these positions, and those that need to communicate to such people. Being modular individual courses can be taken or combined in any combination including as a Masters programme.\n\nEach module on the SLP comprise one week of study and an eight-week work-based assignment. Assignments on the SLP are generally to apply the material from the module and further reading to participant's own organisation in the form of a board level paper. Additional support is provided on the SLP in the form of tutorials and self organised learning groups.\n\nThe SLP highlights that any environmental or sustainability initiative requires a sound business case. It examines current management understanding and what needs to be done differently or better to operate with environmental and social limits. Core modules on the SLP help participants 'sit behind a chair' at the boardroom table, providing the ability to talk to board members and act as change agents in their organisation.\n\nSLP contributors include 50+ associates. These associates are among the leaders in their respective fields.\n\nPhilip Sadler, CBE, former CEO of Ashridge Business School, Patron of the Tomorrowís Company Project has stated: ìCSEMís Sustainability Management Programme has long roots and huge experience and may be the Executive MBA of the future.î\n\nIn 2009 a programme review panel commended CSEM on:\n\n"}
{"id": "4255789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4255789", "title": "Charles Kassler", "text": "Charles Kassler\n\nCharles Kassler Jr (September 9, 1897, Denver, Colorado–April 3, 1979, San Diego, California) was a painter, printmaker, and lithographer.\n\nHe lost a hand during a high school chemistry experiment. He studied art and architecture at Princeton University and the Chicago Art Institute.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1932 Kassler continued his studies while living at various times in New Mexico, Europe, and North Africa. While in France, he apprenticed himself to a well-known fresco painter. After moving to Los Angeles in 1933, he painted the two largest frescoes done under the WPA; \"The Bison Hunt\" for the Central Library in Downtown Los Angeles which was destroyed by weather damage and \"Pastoral California\", at Plummer Auditorium in Fullerton, in Orange County. It was whitewashed in 1938, just four years after Kassler completed it, but was restored in 1997 after spending almost 60 years hidden from view. Kassler was also commissioned by the WPA to paint eight fresco lunette murals for the Beverly Hills, California post office funded by the Treasury Section of Fine Arts. The murals depict the history of the Pony Express, postal service, and the daily life of the common American family. The post office is now home to the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts. After creating murals for the WPA, Kassler taught at Chouinard Art Institute and later worked as a designer in the aerospace industry.\n"}
{"id": "36356378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36356378", "title": "City Polytechnic Institute Khulna", "text": "City Polytechnic Institute Khulna\n\nCity Polytechnic Institute, Khulna () is the largest and first non-government polytechnic institute in Khulna, Bangladesh.\n\nIn early 2003, the Ford Foundation established City Polytechnic Institute, Khulna with a duration of 4 years long courses, based on the syllabus of BTEB.\n\nThis institution offers a Diploma in Engineering, Diploma in Textile Technology and six-month short courses under the Bangladesh Technical Education Board.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34149367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34149367", "title": "Dada Pranakrsnananda", "text": "Dada Pranakrsnananda\n\nDada Pranakrsnananda is a yogic monk of Ananda Marga since 1971 and a social activist in New York City, where he also teaches Astaunga yoga meditation. While participating in the Occupy Wall Street protests, he became one of the first to be arrested on Brooklyn Bridge on October 1, 2011.\n\nPranakrsnanada was personally initiated by Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar aka Shrii Shrii Anandamurti into the order of avadhuta, a monk or nun of an order close to the tradition of Shaeva Tantra.\n\nDada Pranakrsnananda has warned that the focus of the OWS protests could shift to the conflict between the movement and the police, when it should remain on the injustice of corporate greed and inequity of wealth in society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40442777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40442777", "title": "Donald W. Graham", "text": "Donald W. Graham\n\nDonald W. \"Don\" Graham (1883–1976) was a Canadian-American fine artist and art instructor. An early graduate and later a professor at the Chouinard Art Institute (later merged into the California Institute of the Arts), Graham is best known as the head of the internal training and orientation classes at the Walt Disney Productions animation studio from 1932 to 1940.\n\nAssisted by Disney's top animators, Graham helped to document and establish many of the principles that make up the foundation of the art of traditional animation. he posthumously received the Winsor McCay Award for lifetime achievement in the animation field from ASIFA-Hollywood in 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "7928673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7928673", "title": "Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906", "text": "Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906\n\nThe Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom \n\nMargaret McMillan and Fred Jowett were members of the School Board which introduced free school meals in Bradford. This was actually illegal and the School Board could have been forced to end this service. McMillan and Jowett tried to persuade Parliament to introduce legislation which encouraged all education authorities to provide free school meals for children. McMillan argued that if the state insists on compulsory education, it must take responsibility for the proper nourishment of school children. A report published in 1889 indicated that over 50,000 pupils in London alone were attending school \"in want of food\". Other social studies, such as Charles Booth's \"Life and Labour of the People of London, 1899-1903\" and Seebohm Rowntree's \"Poverty: A Study of Town Life in York, 1901\", found that nearly a third of the population and cities studied were living in poverty. The 1904 \"Report into Physical Deterioration\" followed the large rejection of men from service in the Boer War, as they were malnourished.\n\nThe Bill became law over the objection of the House of Lords.\n"}
{"id": "1880014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880014", "title": "Education in Myanmar", "text": "Education in Myanmar\n\nThe educational system of Myanmar (also known as Burma) is operated by the government Ministry of Education. Universities and professional institutes from upper Burma and lower Burma are run by two separate entities, the Departments of Higher Education (Lower Burma and Upper Burma), whose office headquarters are in Yangon and Mandalay respectively. The education system is based on the United Kingdom's system, due to nearly a century of British and Christian presences in Burma.\n\"The\nfirst Government high school was founded by the British colonial administration\nin 1874. Two years later, this Government High School was upgraded and\nbecame University College, Rangoon.\"\nNearly all schools are government-operated, but recently, there has been an increase in privately funded schools (which specialise in English). Schooling is compulsory until the end of elementary school, probably about 9 years old, while the compulsory schooling age is 15 or 16 at international level.\n\nThe literacy rate of Burma, according to the 2014 Burma Census stands at 89.5% (males: 92.6%, females: 86.9%). The annual budget allocated to education by the government is low; only about 1.2% is spent per year on education. English is taught as a second language from kindergarten.\n\nMost of the early mission schools are since 1860 (such as La Salle schools) in Burma were nationalised on 1 April 1965 after the order restoration of general Ne Win.\n\nDuring British colonial rule, educational access for women improved tremendously. In the pre-colonial era, male education was emphasised in the traditional Buddhist monastic education system. The number of female students enrolled in school rose 61% (by 45,000 students) from 1911-1921, and another 82% (100,000 students) from 1921 to 1931 with expansion of the colonial and private education system, primarily in the form of all-girls schools. This was mirrored by an increase in female employment. From 1921 to 1931, there was a 33% increase in employment of women in public administration, law, medicine (96% increase), education (64% increase), and journalism sectors.\n\nWhen Burma gained independence in 1948, the government sought to create a literate and educated population, and Burma was believed to be on its way to become the first Asian Tiger in the region. However, 1962 coup d'etat isolated and impoverished Burma. All schools were nationalised and educational standards began to fall. Burmese replaced English as the medium of instruction at Burmese universities in 1965, with the passing of the New University Education Law a year earlier. This led to a rapid decline in English proficiency among the Burmese. English was reintroduced as a medium of instruction in 1982. In 1977, the 2 year regional college system was introduced by the Burmese government, as a way to disperse college students until they were about to graduate (the third and fourth years were spent at a traditional university), a system that was ended in 1981.\n\nDue to the student protests of the 8888 Uprising, all universities were closed in Burma for 2 years. During the 1990s, the newly introduced structure perpetuated a weak education system as the government's response to the crises was to introduce one 6-month term for each academic year. The SPDC government arranged irregular commencement dates for universities and colleges, but, students were still participated in clashes with the government. Another series of student strikes in 1996 and 1998 resulted in a further 3 years of closure.\n\nAfter the re-opening of universities and colleges in 1999, the government scattered universities in different regions. The relocation of certain universities were made under relative ministries. The new system reduced university degrees by one year, providing a bachelor's degree for just three-year course. However, improvements were rapidly made despite the early disturbances. In 2005, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officially announced that Burmese education was reaching international standards and the government had fully accredited 156 universities and colleges in Myanmar.\n\nToday, Myanmar lags far behind in terms of educational standards. Learn-by-rote education, poorly-trained teachers, bribery, as well as use of out-dated resources have been the trademarks of primary and secondary schools of Myanmar. Furthermore, students are obliged to follow onerous after-school tuition since learning at school is not considered enough. Students learn everything by heart, from answers of English grammar questions to essays. All questions asked in tests are given in advance. Exceptionally, some grade 5, grade 9 and grade 11 test answers are unseen unless the test papers are stolen. Many universities have been built and scattered throughout cities to prevent students participation in potential unrest.\n\nBesides these actions, students attending these universities are not allowed to speak freely, to write freely or to publish freely.\n\nSchool uniforms are mandatory throughout public schools in Burma, from kindergarten until the 10th standard. From kindergarten to the 4th standard, the compulsory uniform for boys is a white shirt and green pants, which can be short or long. Shoes and Burmese sandals may be worn. The uniform for girls is similar, consisting of a white blouse and a skirt or pants. From the 5th standard until matriculation, traditional Burmese attire is considered appropriate school uniform. The uniform for boys is a white shirt (with a Mandarin collar or uncollared) and a green sarong called a \"paso\", along with Burmese sandals. For girls, a traditional Burmese blouse (either the \"yinzi,\" with a front opening, or the \"yin hpon\", with a side opening) and a green sarong called a \"htamein\" are worn, along with Burmese sandals.\n\nPreschools are opened for children over 2 years of age and they are in extensive care or public systems. Kindergarten starts from the age of 5 (not younger than 4 Years and 8 months at the time of school's commencement date). Primary, Lower Secondary and Upper Secondary Schools in Burma are under the Department of Basic Education. The official commencement date for those schools is 1 June.\n\nPrimary education is officially compulsory. It lasts five years, and to continue onto secondary school, students must pass a comprehensive examination on basic subjects.\n\nSecondary schools are usually combined, containing both middle and high schools.Secondary Middle schools offer classes from Grade 6 to grade 9 whereas Secondary High school offers classes up to Grade 11. Children of rich and well-known families are often given easier access to the more prestigious secondary schools. There is much corruption in educational equality. But in both primary and secondary schools, the system is \"no-failure education system\". Only at the end of the high schools or at the entrance of the college/university, the system is changed.\n\nHigh schools students choose one of 2 tracks upon entering high school: science or arts. All high school students take Myanmar, English, and mathematics. However, Science-specialised students also take 3 additional subjects: chemistry, physics and biology as part of their coursework, while arts-specialised students take geography, history and economics. These routes also determine what matriculation subject exams they are administered and what tertiary schools they can apply to.\n\nAt the end of Standard 10(Grade 11), students take the University Entrance Examination, commonly referred to as the matriculation exam in English, administered by the Board of Examinations annually in mid-March. High marks in a subject garner a distinction known as \"gondu\" (). Students who achieve distinctions in five or more subjects (or a combined total of approximately 500/600) are generally guaranteed placement in one of Myanmar's medical universities, the most selective of universities. Test score results are released at testing sites throughout the country in June. Since 2007, Mon State has had the highest matriculation pass rates in the country.\n\nStudents who attend international English-language schools or other private schools are not eligible to sit for the matriculation exam, nor are they allowed to enroll in Burmese universities. Instead, they typically study overseas, at destinations such as Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, United Kingdom and the United States. In 2010, 695 Burmese international students studied in the United States, particularly in private liberal arts colleges.\n\nMyanmar secondary education has numerous problems.It completely emphasizes upon rote learning and memorization and regurgitation inhibiting students' creative thinking and critical thinking skills.Teachers themselves learn under the authoritative systems so they are usually resistive to current changes in teaching methods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9618505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9618505", "title": "Elmfield Rudolf Steiner School", "text": "Elmfield Rudolf Steiner School\n\nElmfield Rudolf Steiner School Limited is an independent school situated in Stourbridge, West Midlands, England. It educates around 260 children aged from 3 to 17 who follow the international Steiner Waldorf Education curriculum.\n\nThe school was established in 1934 and moved to its present site in 1946, using as a base two Victorian houses, Thornhill and Parkhill. New buildings were added in 1979 (the school hall) and 1995 (the Tobias and Gawain buildings). These provided additional classrooms, a science laboratory, a dance and music hall and facilities for information technology.\n\nIn October 2006 Ofsted reported that the school provided a satisfactory standard of education. The moral, social and cultural development of the pupils was particularly good. In 2006 75% of students obtained 5 or more A*-C GCSEs.\n\nFrench and German are taught from age six. Regular class exchanges are held with other European Steiner Waldorf schools. Every year the pupils of class nine go on exchange to the Schloss Hamborn Steiner School, Germany to stay with the class nine there. They take a full part in school life, as well as working on the school's farm.\n\nEileen Hutchins, teacher, author and founder of Elmfield School.\n\nWalter Braithwaite (1906-1991) was a music teacher, piano teacher and pianist at the school. He wrote several songs for school plays and festivals, two of which (\"Ut queant laxis\" and \"The Spring by the Wayside\" or \"Bare is the Rock\") are still regularly sung at Elmfield.\n\nTomie Ando, who is the eurythmy teacher, on 27 July 2007 danced as part of the Venezuelan Embassy cultural programme.\n"}
{"id": "970788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=970788", "title": "Emil Abderhalden", "text": "Emil Abderhalden\n\nEmil Abderhalden (March 9, 1877 – August 5, 1950) was a Swiss biochemist and physiologist. His main findings, though disputed already in the 1920s, were not finally rejected until the late 1990s. Whether his misleading findings were based on fraud or simply the result of a lack of scientific rigor remains unclear. Abderhalden's drying pistol, used in chemistry, was first described by one of his students in a textbook Abderhalden edited.\n\nEmil Abderhalden was born in Oberuzwil in the Canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland.\n\nAbderhalden studied medicine at the University of Basel and received his doctorate in 1902. He then studied in the laboratory of Emil Fischer and worked at the University of Berlin. In 1911 he moved to the University of Halle and taught physiology in the medical school. From 1931 to 1950, he was president of the German Academy of Natural Scientists Leopoldina. In 1936 he was appointed member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences.\n\nDuring World War I, he established a children's hospital and organized the removal of malnourished children to Switzerland. Subsequently, he resumed his research into physiological chemistry and began to study metabolism and food chemistry.\n\nAfter World War II Abderhalden returned to Switzerland and got a position at the University of Zurich. He died there at age 73. The minor planet 15262 Abderhalden was named in his honour.\n\nAbderhalden is known for a blood test for pregnancy, a test for cystine in urine, and for explaining the Abderhalden–Kaufmann–Lignac syndrome, a recessive genetic condition. He did extensive work in the analysis of proteins, polypeptides, and enzymes. His \"Abwehrfermente\" (\"defensive enzymes\") theory stated that immunological challenge will induce production of proteases. This was seemingly \"proven\" by many collaborators in Europe, although attempts to verify the theory abroad failed.\n\nThe pregnancy test was determined to be unreliable a few years after its inception. In late 1912 Abderhalden's \"defensive ferments reaction test\" was applied to the differential diagnosis of dementia praecox from other mental diseases and from normals by Stuttgart psychiatrist August Fauser (1856–1938), and his miraculous claims of success were soon replicated by researchers in Germany and particularly in the United States. However, despite the worldwide publicity this \"blood test for madness\" generated, within a few years the \"Abderhalden–Fauser reaction\" was discredited and only a handful of American psychiatric researchers continued to believe in it. Certainly by 1920 the test was all but forgotten in the USA. Abderhalden's reputation continued to grow in Germany, however, where collaborators managed to \"replicate\" his results, usually by simply repeating experiments until they succeeded and discarding the negative results. As Abderhalden was seen as the founder of scientific biochemistry in Germany, questioning his work could harm one's career, as Leonor Michaelis discovered in the mid-1910s; by 1922, Michaelis' reputation was so tarnished that he had to leave the country to embark on an outstanding career of scientific success abroad. Otto Westphal later called Abderhalden's \"Abwehrfermente\" work \"a fraud from beginning to end\".\n\nAbderhalden's work was strongly ideologically slanted: his theory was put to use for human experiments by Otmar von Verschuer and Josef Mengele to develop a blood test for separating \"Aryan\" from \"non-Aryan\" individuals. While Abderhalden himself did not take part in this work, evidence suggests that he was instrumental in ideologically streamlining the German Academy of Natural Scientists \"Leopoldina\" by having the Jewish members purged and replaced by Nazi sycophants. \n\nIn another research project of the KWI-A Berlin Mengele worked officially in his role as camp doctor at Auschwitz. Biochemist Emil Abderhalden had turned in 1940 to Verschuer, because he needed the blood of twins to check the \"Abderhalden reaction named after him\" on identical twins. Abderhalden asserted here, that certain reactions of the immune system are stimulated by the production of each specific proteases. Due to the detection of such enzymes in the blood - Abderhalden called it \"Defensive enzymes\" - the detection of diseases such as mental illness or cancer through blood tests should be possible. Abderhalden also believed that racial characteristics were included in the proteins of the tissue and blood. These suggestions were taken up by Verschuer and developed into a research project on the inheritance of \"specific white type bodies\", from which he obviously hoped to, to be able to develop a blood test for the determination of human race. In an interim report of the KWI-A at the German Research Foundation, which funded the project, Verschuer explained that his assistant was posted as a camp doctor in Auschwitz, Dr Mengele, who was entered as an employee in this branch. \"With the permission of the Reichsführer-SS be conducted anthropological studies of the various racial groups in this concentration camp and sent the blood samples to my laboratory for processing.\" Also, the biochemist Günther Hillmann was included in the project, was established as a specialist for protein research by the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Biochemistry under Adolf Butenandt. Verschuer spoke in this context of 200 studied blood samples from family members of different \"races\" which substrates are made of.\n\nDespite of his theories being rejected as early as the mid-1910s, Abderhalden still loomed large as a kind of \"father figure\" in parts of the German scientific community and only by Deichmann and Müller-Hill's scathing 1998 review, the entire extent of the rejection was revealed. However, in Abderhalden's days, the science of immunology was all but non-existent. That his experiments indeed seemed to \"work\" on occasion was probably due to immunoprecipitation. The crucial difference between this and Abderhalden's theory is that the former is an effect of antibodies, whereas the fictitious \"Abwehrfermente\" were presumed to be proteases; a difference that has large implications for biochemistry and immunology.\n\nThe most comprehensive analysis of the issue as to whether Abderhalden was simply grossly mistaken or perpetuated deliberate fraud can be found in Kaasch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4300364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4300364", "title": "Ernest L. Wilkinson", "text": "Ernest L. Wilkinson\n\nErnest Leroy Wilkinson (May 4, 1899 – April 6, 1978) was an American academic administrator, lawyer, and prominent figure in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). He was president of Brigham Young University (BYU) from 1951 to 1971, simultaneously overseeing the entire LDS Church Educational System. He is credited with the expansion of Brigham Young University. Under his presidency, the student body increased six times to over twenty-five thousand students due to the physical growth of the university and his aggressive recruiting policies. The number of colleges at the university increased from five to thirteen and the number of faculty members increased four-fold. Wilkinson focused on recruiting more faculty and convincing current faculty to receive education outside the university. As a result, the number of teachers with doctorate degrees increased from 50 to 500. Associate and doctoral programs were created for Brigham Young University.\n\nThe J. Reuben Clark library (now the Harold B. Lee Library) was built and library resources were expanded by 500 percent. The number of buildings on Brigham Young University campus increased from 6 to over 300 buildings, representing an increase in floor space of about 4.2 million square feet. He initiated the construction of various student housing options to accommodate over 6,000 students. Additionally, he increased the number of student religious congregations. During his twenty-year presidency, the number of congregations increased from 1 student branch to 98 wards and 10 stakes for LDS students. Under Wilkinson's presidency, the Brigham Young University Honor Code was more clearly established and was designed to include a strict dress code.\n\nWilkinson was a strongly conservative Republican. He unsuccessfully ran for the U.S. Senate in 1964, while he was president of Brigham Young University. Prior to his career in education, Wilkinson was a lawyer in Washington, D.C. and New York City, his most well-known and lucrative case being a $32 million settlement from the U.S. government for the Ute Indian Tribes.\n\nErnest Leroy Wilkinson was born in Ogden, Utah on May 4, 1899. He was one of seven children of Robert Brown Wilkinson and Annie Cecilia Anderson. Robert Brown Wilkinson was a Scottish immigrant who arrived in the United States as a young boy. He married Annie Cecilia Anderson. Robert Wilkinson worked for the Southern Pacific Railroad for 25 years. Robert Wilkinson supported the union and according to family, at one time ran for mayor of Ogden as a Socialist candidate. During Ernest Wilkinson's childhood, he associated mostly with older boys and men, as there were few boys his age. He became involved in cock fighting, buying a few cocks with the money he made from delivering \"Desert News\", but stopped cock fighting after police started persecuting offenders.\n\nIn order to cultivate his Mormon faith, his mother suggested he attend Weber Academy, which was at the time owned by the LDS church. Before his graduation, he won the Dr. Edward S. Rich oratorical contest with his speech entitled, \"American Ideals\". He graduated from Weber Academy in Ogden in 1917. He continued studies at the expanded Weber Academy, Weber College. During his time at Weber he organized the Public Service Bureau (a service organization), was editor of the yearbook, and was president of the student body for two years. He competed in forensics meets and won the state championship with his team. He received the Lewis Efficacy Medal for students excelling in scholarship and public service and was valedictorian of his class. After a year at Weber College, Wilkinson became a member of the Student Army Training Corps unit located at BYU. Wilkinson attributed his success to what he learned at Weber Academy and became interested in the idea of offering a religiously affiliated education to more LDS youth. After the war, he became a regular student at BYU and among other things served as the editor of the weekly newspaper \"White and Blue\" and was president of his senior class. Wilkinson and a few colleagues received special recognition when they beat the Princeton debate team. He earned his bachelor of arts degree at BYU in 1921.\n\nHe married Alice Valera Ludlow, a native of Spanish Fork whom he had met while they were both students at BYU. They were married in the Salt Lake Temple on August 16, 1923. The ceremony was performed by James E. Talmage. Alice was elected vice president of the student body with Wilkinson as her campaign manager and had studied drama at BYU. Ernest and Alice had five children together.\n\nAfter graduation, Wilkinson began teaching English and speech at Weber College. During this time, Wilkinson began to take an active interest in politics. He ran as a Democrat for county auditor and lost.\n\nIn 1923, Wilkinson was involved with the campaign of William H. King for United States Senate. King invited Wilkinson to be his secretary (administrative assistant) in Washington D.C. He agreed so that he could take evening classes at George Washington University. When he arrived in Washington D.C., he was informed by King's current secretary that he was to arrange for another position for him. He was offered the position of assistant architect of the Capitol Building. Uninterested in architecture, Wilkinson found a job as a teacher of a business high school teaching shorthand and typing, still able to attend law school at night. He earned a law degree from George Washington University summa cum laude in 1926. He was admitted to the Washington D.C., Utah, and New York bar associations. He studied at Harvard Law School on scholarship for his graduate studies. Even though five years of teaching were prerequisite for entering in the doctoral program, he was granted exception from Dean Roscoe Pound of the law school due to his academics at George Washington University. In 1927, Wilkinson graduated from Harvard Law School with a Doctor of Juridical Science.\n\nHe initially accepted a position teaching law at the University of California, but quickly resigned in order to pursue another offer to teach at the more prestigious New Jersey Law School, the largest law school in the United States at the time, where he taught from 1927 to 1933. After aiding Hughes, Schurman, and Dwight law firm with a challenging tax problem, he was invited to join their law firm in New York City. He began practicing there as well as teaching at New Jersey Law School, where he was known as notoriously difficult professor.\n\nAfter working for future Supreme Court chief justice Charles Evans Hughes, and working with Moyle & Wilkinson in Washington D.C., Wilkinson opened up a private firm in 1940 where he practiced for eleven years. One case involved a young, American soldier in Japan who was sentenced to death for accidentally killing a child in a motorcycle accident. He succeeded in lowering the sentence to only the time in jail that the man had already served. Even though he received no compensation for the case, he considered it the most gratifying case he ever worked on. He served as attorney for the Ute Indian Tribes in their suit to be compensated for land never paid for by the U.S. government as part of the Treaty of 1880. In 1950, this suit was upheld by the United States Court of Claims and as a result, the Ute tribes were awarded $32 million. Due to Wilkinson's work, the Indian Claims Commission was signed in 1946 by Harry S. Truman. This opened up more claims to be filed and prosecuted by Wilkinson, making his firm the most active in the country for tribal cases. Wilkinson's share of the Ute Indian settlement as the plaintiff's attorney made him independently wealthy, and allowed him to give up his law practice to pursue his interests in education. When he became the 7th president of BYU, Wilkinson created a new law firm: Wilkinson, Cragun, and Barker. He was the senior partner, but management was left to his brother Glen Wilkinson, Cragun, and Barker.\n\nWilkinson was heavily interested in politics. Influenced by his socialist father from a young age, his viewpoints shifted to conservatism in his adult years. During the Cold War, LDS Church leaders were particularly fearful of the influence of Communism in the United States. This was manifest in their choice of strictly conservative Wilkinson as the next BYU president. LDS Church leader Stephen L. Richards hoped in Wilkinson's inauguration that Wilkinson would, \"implant in youth a deep love of country and a reverential regard for the Constitution of the United States.\" Wilkinson made it clear that he supported the Republican party and disliked Communism. Some students at BYU criticized his \"unabashed partisanship\". Despite his interest in politics during the beginning of his presidency at BYU, he did not seriously consider running for the U.S. Senate. Though his law career had taught him how to navigate federal bureaucracy, he did not feel that he had the skills to win a congressional race. In addition, he was more concerned, at the time, in the work he could accomplish in Utah as BYU president rather than in Washington. Several times during the 1950s and 1960s, Wilkinson approached church president David O. McKay for his permission to run for public office. He was advised not to run until 1964 when he was given a one-year leave of absence to run for the senate. In his absence, duties of the president and chancellor were taken up by Earl C. Crockett and Harvey L. Taylor respectively. In 1964, Wilkinson won the Republican Party nomination for the United States Senate, defeating Sherman P. Lloyd. Wilkinson lost in the general election to incumbent Senator Frank Moss. Within a month after his defeat, Wilkinson returned to BYU, but members of the Board of Trustees maintained that Harvey Taylor remain chancellor. As consolation, Wilkinson was granted a $20,000 salary, the largest salary of any BYU employee at the time.\n\nAfter Howard S. McDonald resigned from his position as BYU President, Christian Jensen served as interim president for about ten months. In 1949, at a dinner for Jensen, Ernest L. Wilkinson gave a speech asserting the ways in which he believed Brigham Young University could excel. He expressed that he had high aspirations for the school and believed in the values of combining a spiritual and secular education. After the dinner, Wilkinson was invited to share his ideas with the First Presidency and the Board of Trustees. The favorite candidate of J. Reuben Clark to fill the vacancy of BYU president was the vocally conservative Ernest Wilkinson who lobbied LDS Church leaders to be appointed as president of BYU and was offered the position in July 1950. Wilkinson refused to be paid a salary, which attracted church officials in the aftermath of tense financial negotiations with previous president Howard S. McDonald. In September 1950, Wilkinson changed the members of the board of trustees from local members to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles with the President of the Church and his counselors serving as president and vice presidents, respectively, of the board. Wilkinson wanted a direct line of communication to the David O. McKay, the president of the church at the time. Wilkinson would frequently counsel directly with President McKay, avoiding the Board of Trustees. From 1951 to the end of 1952, Wilkinson had no official assistants besides William F. Edwards, the dean of the College of Commerce and William E. Berrett, a professor of religion. At the end of 1952, Harvey L. Taylor became Wilkinson's first administrative assistant. Wilkinson was considered by most of his subordinates difficult to work with, citing him as dictatorial and inconsiderate. At 5'5\", his nicknames among colleagues were \"Little General\" or \"Little Napoleon\". Aware of his difficulty getting along with his employees, he claimed he \"[didn't] have time to be polite\".\n\nIn 1953, in an attempt to unify Church schools, Wilkinson was named administrator of Church schools. Besides his duties at Brigham Young University, he oversaw the administrative duties of Ricks College (now Brigham Young University-Idaho), LDS Business College, the McCune School of Music, and Juarez Academy in Mexico, along with seventeen institutes and 193 seminaries. Wilkinson proposed that the name Church Educational System be changed to University of Deseret, but his proposal was rejected for multiple reasons, one of them being that people were unwilling to drop the name of Brigham Young from their school. After this expansion of the Church Educational System and thus Wilkinson's duties, he appointed Edwards and Barrett as vice presidents of the LDS Department of Education. In 1953, the Church Educational System considered reacquiring Weber College, Snow College, and Dixie College in order to increase the expanse of the Church Educational System. A referendum was included on the November 1954 ballot to transfer these three junior colleges from the State of Utah back to the LDS Church Educational System. The controversial referendum was defeated in the election with less than 40% of voters in favor. Still interested in pursuing junior colleges, the Church Educational System established the Church College of Hawaii (now Brigham Young University-Hawaii) in 1955 in Laie, Hawaii. Shorty thereafter, the Church College of Hawaii and other Pacific LDS institutions were removed from the Church Educational System, considered to be closer to \"missionary operations\" and the presidents of the institution were subject to the local school systems rather than the large Church Educational System.\n\nThe next concern for Wilkinson was increasing the enrollment of Brigham Young University. He instituted a program in which members of BYU faculty would travel with general authorities to stake conferences. They attended nearly 180 conferences, emphasizing the benefits of a BYU education. Enrollment increased by more than twenty-five percent in fall of 1952. After discontinuing the program in 1952, Wilkinson continued to recruit for BYU by sending representatives to high schools and church missions, which received some criticism from mission presidents and was terminated by the First Presidency shortly after. Despite the criticisms, Wilkinson's tactics were successful and enrollment increased to over 10,000 by the 1956-57 school year. Colleges were reorganized in order to group similar studies together and allow for the most growth and success of students. For example, the College of Arts and Sciences and the College of Applied Sciences were broken into multiple colleges in 1954 including, but not limited to, the College of Biological and Agricultural Sciences and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences. The Department of Physical Education, Health, and Athletics was separated from the College of Education and established as its own college and the College of Education was forced to relinquish its monopoly on the training of teachers and made to be a college specific to teaching methods. Wilkinson improved the salaries of faculty in order to recruit more talented professors and staff members to BYU. The Army and Air Force ROTC program at BYU was established by Wilkinson in 1951 for the Air Force and 1968 for the Army. An engineering program with its own building was established by President Wilkinson with the help of Harvey Fletcher, and in 1956, broke into three programs: civil engineering, mechanical engineering, and electrical engineering. Wilkinson also established a College of Family Living in late 1951, alleged to be the first in the United States, however, Purdue University had opened a Department of Family Life in 1946. In order to increase the size and quality of the graduate program at BYU, Wilkinson instituted a policy that encouraged faculty to pursue graduate studies at other universities. Through the policy, the university could obtain faculty qualified to teach graduate students as well as faculty who have attended other universities and thus obtained a more well-balanced education, preventing the \"academic inbreeding\" that had been a problem at the institution. The number of professors that held doctorates, especially from other universities, increased significantly.\n\nErnest L. Wilkinson sought to increase the size and the beauty of Brigham Young University campus. The first construction project during the presidency of Wilkinson commenced July 1952. The Student Service Center, or unofficially, the bookstore, was dedicated in March 1953. After the planning committee devised a \"master plan\" for building and expansion of BYU campus, and the Church appropriated $500,000 for the acquisition of more land in pursuit of the building projects proposed in the master plan. Wilkinson received ten million dollars from the Board of Trustees in order to build student housing and academic buildings. In order to accommodate more students, student housing was expanded. Heritage Halls were apartment-style dormitories that included a kitchen were built for girls, and Helaman Halls, which included a large dining hall, were built for men. With these additions, the number of women's accommodations increased to 2,000 students while the men's accommodations increased to 1,600 students. 150 homes were bought from the Mountain Home Air Force Base in Idaho and transported to Provo. Considered a fairly temporary solution, the complex was named Wyview Village and was intended to accommodate married students. The Harvey Fletcher building was built and completed in 1953 in order to house the new engineering program, though other departments, namely the English department was allowed to share the space due to the lack of buildings. The David O. McKay building was completed in 1954 for the College of Education. The college shared its walls with some other humanities disciplines until the campus was expanded more in later years. The Benjamin Cluff Jr. Building, along with two greenhouses, was built to house the laboratories for the College of Biological and Agricultural Sciences in 1955. These buildings were torn down for the new Life Science Building completed in 2014. The Howard S. McDonald Student Health Center, which also housed the Air Force ROTC program, was completed in 1955 and contained an x-ray room and a hydrotherapy room. A separate Student Health Center now exists. The Howard S. McDonald Building now contains BYU's MRI Research Facility. The Joseph F. Smith Family Living Center was built in 1957 to house the College of Family Living. Dedicated in 2005 and still home to the College of Family, Home and Social Sciences, the Joseph Fielding Smith Building took the place of the Family Living Center. A number of other smaller, miscellaneous buildings were built in the 50s including a ticket office for the football stadium and a poultry laboratory for the Animal Science Department. Significant effort was also put into improving the campus utilities and landscaping. The Department of Physical Plant was established in 1954. Due to the nearly seventy hours of work President was putting in per week, Wilkinson suffered a heart attack in October 1956. He was permitted to return to work in January 1957. Taylor, Edwards, and Berrett took over his responsibilities while he was recovering.\n\nWith the continuous growth of the student body, Wilkinson understood the need to continue expanding campus. The first large project was the BYU Motion Picture Studio (now the LDS Motion Picture Studios), built in 1958. In 1961, At a cost of nearly $4,000,000, the J. Reuben Clark Jr. Library (now the Harold B. Lee Library) was built due to lack of library resources and space in the Heber J. Grant Library. The library was built to accommodate 3,000 people and house one million books. The Jesse Knight building was completed in 1960 to house the College of Commerce. Plans were made in early 1960 for a new student center; student costs were raised by ten dollars each student to raise the funds for the project. The building cost $7 million, and two-thirds of the funds came directly from students. The building was six stories and contained a bookstore, cafeteria, two theaters, lounges, a bowling alley, and a barber shop. A consensus hadn't been reached on the name of the building. Students were interested in naming the building \"Memorial Union\" to honor BYU students killed in war. Shortly before the dedication, the Board of Trustees revealed they intended to name the building the Ernest L. Wilkinson Student Center. Although some students believed that they should have had the right to name the building since they paid for most of it, the Board of Trustees named the building after Wilkinson. During his presidency, church appropriations to the school increased from $1 million to $22 million annually, while university expenditures increased from $2 million to $65 million annually.\n\nErnest L. Wilkinson felt that his job was to prevent the decay of moral values of the students and increase administrative control of the BYU Honor Code. He instituted a strict dress code meant to prevent students from dressing like \"go-go girls\" or \"surfers\". Women's skirts and dresses were required to be below the knee and they were prohibited from wearing pants. Upon protestation, female students achieved a small victory when they were permitted to wear slacks at the university's bowling alley. Men were required to keep their hair cut short. Wilkinson pushed to increase the social interaction among the students, believing that it would be facilitated if every student was required to wear a name tag. Due to the unpopularity of the plan among students, this was never enforced. Wilkinson attempted to weed out students who were not following the honor code, because he felt that they prevented other worthy students from attending the university. Wilkinson also instituted a rule against male facial hair with the exception of a small, well-trimmed mustache.\n\nExtremely conservative and anti-communist, Ernest L. Wilkinson wasn't bashful in expressing his political philosophy to BYU students and faculty. After his unsuccessful run for U.S. Senate in 1964, he \"returned to campus with a vengeance\". Some of his employees publicly supported his opponent Sherman Lloyd in the primaries, which Wilkinson felt was disloyal. When he returned to BYU, he became aware of a group of \"liberal\" teachers who were interested in changing the social and political atmosphere at BYU. He invited right-wing speakers to BYU and gave highly political speeches on campus. Wilkinson gave a lengthy May 1965 commencement address in which he attributed the beginning of moral decay of American values to Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal as well as criticizing the current president Lyndon B. Johnson's views of social security. Hoping to incite controversy, Wilkinson planned to give another politically charged speech in April 1966. He asked his comptroller, Joseph Bentley, to find students to report on professors' reactions to the speech. Bentley in turn asked student Stephen Hays Russell to report on professors' reactions unofficially. The two made a list of professors to surveil, and Russell recruited ten students to take notes on what their professors said about Wilkinson's speech in their classes. Political science professor Ray Hillam was one of Bentley and Russell's targets. He was notified of the spy ring by one of his students and he requested a formal hearing be arranged. In the first hearing on September 15, presided over by vice presidents of the university, Hillam was formally charged for being pro-communist and disloyal to the university, with information gathered by the student spies used as evidence. Hillam rejected the charges and questioned the motives of all involved. The vice presidents formally issued a report on October 17. The report did not address that Hillam was the target of a spy ring, only accusing him of \"minor indiscretions\". Ronald Hankin, one of the students involved, went to local television and radio stations to inform them of the spying scandal and Wilkinson's involvement in it. Wilkinson admitted that he recruited students to report on faculty members in an official statement. In the official history of Brigham Young University, Wilkinson included information about the spy ring, but omitted any information that led him to appear guilty.\n\nWilkinson considered the most important accomplishment of his term as president to have been the organization of student wards and stakes. Wilkinson was the ninth Commissioner of Church Education of the LDS Church. During his tenure, he also bore the title \"Administrator–Chancellor of the Unified Church Schools System\". On April 21, 1966, Wilkinson gave an address to the student body of BYU, entitled \"The Changing Nature of American Government from a Constitutional Republic to a Welfare State.\" This was published in booklet form by Deseret Book Company. After President McKay died in 1970, Neal A. Maxwell was named the new commissioner of the Church Educational System. Wilkinson relied on David O. McKay as a buffer in interacting with Harold B. Lee, a senior member of the Board of Trustee with whom Wilkinson differed greatly in educational and administrative philosophies. Sensing a lack of support among the church leaders, Wilkinson resigned from his position as BYU president in mid-1970 and was released at the beginning of 1971. Even though he was no longer president, Wilkinson hoped to be involved in the establishment of the J. Reuben Clark Law School. Due to his domineering reputation, school officials were unsure that he should continue to be so closely involved in administration of BYU, so they asked him to edit the university's official centennial history. Published in 1976, \"Brigham Young University: The First One Hundred Years\" was composed of four volumes.\n\nErnest L. Wilkinson died of a heart attack April 6, 1978. Before he died, he had been supervising the work on his biography, \"Ernest L. Wilkinson: Indian Advocate and University President\".\n\nIn the early 1930s, Ernest L. Wilkinson served as branch president in New York and Queens, and later, bishop of the Queens Ward. His colleagues in the Hughes law firm called him the \"Bishop of Wall Street\". In 1940, he served as second counselor to Ezra Taft Benson in the Washington Stake Presidency and as first counselor from 1944 to 1948. He represented the Church on the General Commission for Chaplains of the Army and Navy.\n\nDuring the twenty years of Wilkinson's presidency at Brigham Young University, the student body increased from 4,004 students in 1951 to over 25,000 in 1971. The university went from having five colleges with 37 departments to 13 colleges with 71 departments. The number of faculty members increased by from 244 to 932, while the number of them holding a doctoral degree increased from 50 to more than 500. The first associate and doctoral programs were organized. The quarter system was changed to the semester system. The number of resources in the library increased by 500%. The number of buildings increased from six permanent buildings to 254 permanent buildings and 85 temporary buildings, an increase from 800,000 to 5 million square feet of floor space. After 1972, student housing could accommodate almost 6,000 students, an increase from the 1,200 student accommodations in 1951. The achievement Wilkinson was most proud of was the creation of student wards and stakes. In 1951, there was one branch for LDS students and in 1971, there were 98 wards and 10 stakes for LDS students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4002861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4002861", "title": "Francis Burns", "text": "Francis Burns\n\nFrancis Burns (1809 – 1863) was an American Methodist minister who served as a missionary in Liberia. He was the first Missionary Bishop, and the first African-American Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church (elected in 1858).\n\nBurns was born 5 December 1809 in Albany, New York. He was said to be \"thoroughly African in his complexion.\" New York was still a slave state at this time. His parents were so poor, such that at the age of four they placed their son in service with a farmer in Greene County, New York. At the age of eight, he was indentured to a Mr. Atwood (a farmer) to learn the farming business.\n\nHe was permitted to attend school with the other children of the neighborhood, during the winter season (which is when most early schools were open, the farm chores being fewer during the winter). Two years later, however, his health becoming poor, he was sent to the district school during the entire summer.\n\nThe Atwood family was respectable and eminently pious, living in Ashland, New York, in a house now owned by Samuel Creech. Burns attended the North Settlement Methodist Church, County Route 10 Ashland. Mrs. Atwood was a Methodist class-leader. One who knew her said she was \"a holy and zealous woman.\" At fifteen years of age Francis was converted to the Christian faith under the influence of Miss Stewart, a white teacher, the daughter of a Baptist preacher. At seventeen Francis felt that God required him to preach. Yet he refrained from doing so because he was bound to his master until the age of twenty-one.\n\nHis education was insufficient from Burns's own perspective, and there appeared no field in which he might labor to answer his calling. When the way finally opened, he felt unwilling to enter it. But possessing an unquenchable thirst for knowledge, he employed all his efforts to obtain it. While attending a high school he began to hold religious meetings, and to exhort. He also began to teach school. Indeed, he is said to have been \"the first colored student in a white school,\" the Academy at Lexington Heights, New York. He is also said to have been \"the first colored teacher in a white school,\" in his own community, where he received marked respect. He was subsequently licensed as a local preacher on the Windham circuit.\n\nBishop Matthew Simpson said of Francis Burns, in reflection:\n\nBy his intelligence, his consistent piety, and by the force of his character, he rose above the disabilities of his color, and commanded the respect of all that knew him.\n\nThe Rev. Francis Burns became noticed as a pastor and a preacher. A Dr. Terry of the Mission Rooms was chiefly instrumental in leading him into missionary work. He encouraged Francis to enter upon a course of study, that he might be ready to go to Liberia or elsewhere, should the door open. In 1833 Dr. Terry secured for Francis an interview with Bishop Hedding. In 1834, when the Rev. John Seys was about to sail for Liberia, it was arranged that the Rev. Burns should accompany him as a Missionary Teacher. Sailing in September of that year, they arrived in Monrovia 18 October.\n\nThe Rev. Burns' first appointment in Liberia was as at Cape Palmas. For two years he suffered from the dreaded fever. He joined the Liberia Annual Conference in 1838, and in 1840-42 was an assistant Preacher on the Bassa Circuit. During 1843 and the early part of 1844 he was appointed to Monrovia. In due course he was elected to orders. Then ten years after arriving in Liberia, returning to New York, Francis Burns was ordained by Bishop Janes.\n\nThe Rev. Burns performed hard and difficult work in the missionary field. He also occasionally occupied the post of teacher in the Monrovia Seminary. He served as Editor of the \"Africa's Luminary,\" doing so with marked ability.\n\nThe Rev. Francis Burns returned to the U.S. in 1844. He was ordained Deacon 16 June 1844 in Brooklyn, N.Y.. He was ordained Elder in the Mulberry Street Church in New York City the same day, with Bishop Janes officiating at both services. The Rev. Burns returned to Liberia later that year.\n\nWhen, at the 1849 session of the Mission Conference, the work in Liberia was divided into districts, the Rev. Burns was appointed Presiding Elder of the Cape Palmas District. For six years of the ten that he was Presiding Elder, he also served as President of the Conference, reporting clearly and comprehensively the business of the mission to the Missionary Board in New York. In 1851, Burns also was sent to open an academy in Monrovia and to superintend the Mission there.\n\nThe 1856 General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church made provision for the first time for the election and consecration of a Missionary Bishop (for the African work). Accordingly, in January 1858 the Liberia Annual Conference elected the Rev. Francis Burns as their first Bishop. He returned to the US for consecration. This took place 14 October 1858 at the session of the Genesee Annual Conference, meeting in Perry, Wyoming County, New York. Bishops Janes and Baker presided at the consecration.\n\nBishop Simpson, quoting Dr. John Robie (who was present at the Conference), described the proceedings:\n\nThough of ebony complexion, he had gained wonderfully on the affection and respect of all who had made his acquaintance, and especially of those privileged to an intimate association with him. His manner is exceedingly pleasant, and his spirit is as kind, sweet, and good as ever beamed from human heart or disposition. He seems to be lacking in none of the qualifications of the gentleman and Christian minister. He possesses also an intelligent and cultivated mind, speaks readily and fluently, and even eloquently, and is in all respects a model African. Such is the man whom the Liberian Conference has selected for a bishop, and such the one the highest authorities of one American church have set apart for the sacred and responsible position.\n\nBishop Burns returned to Africa almost immediately following his consecration, where he devoted himself to the work which devolved upon him for the next nearly five years.\n\nBishop Burns' health began to fail. He was therefore directed to take a sea voyage. On the advice of his physician, Bishop Burns then returned to the U.S.A. He died 18 April 1863 within three days of his arrival in Baltimore, Maryland, a mere three months after Emancipation in the United States. Bishop Burns was buried in Monrovia, Liberia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14727796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14727796", "title": "General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen of the City of New York", "text": "General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen of the City of New York\n\nThe General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen of the City of New York, was founded on November 17, 1785, by 22 men who gathered in Walter Heyer's public-house on Pine Street in Lower Manhattan. The aims of the General Society were to provide cultural, educational and social services to families of skilled craftsmen. The General Society during this early period celebrated the mutuality and centrality of the craft community. Besides its charitable activities, the society played a prominent part in the festivities that marked patriotic holidays, carrying banners emblazoned with its slogan 'By hammer and hand all arts do stand', echoing the motto of the Worshipful Company of Blacksmiths.\n\nThe city of New York and the Society both benefited from the decision to make New York the seat of the Federal Government. In 1789, legislators and their assistants and families began to pour into the city. Business prospects brightened considerably. In 1792, the Society attained a membership of 413, and received a charter of incorporation. Old documents reveal that the Society was quite active in the last years of the 18th century, corresponding with other business related associations, and petitioning the state legislature in the interests of industrial progress.\n\n In 1820, The General Society opened one of the city's first free schools. During the early 1800s, New York had no public school system. Only two free schools were to be found in the whole city – one in the almshouse, and the other open only to the children of freed slaves. The school opened with 70 students. Children of members were admitted free of charge, and a small fee was required from all others. Later that same year the Society added a separate school for girls. The school, which became the Mechanics Institute in 1858, continues to provide tuition-free evening instruction in trades-related education. Currently, it is the oldest privately endowed tuition-free technical school in the city of New York, with more than 180,000 alumni.\n\nAlso founded in 1820, the General Society Library is the second oldest in New York City. The Library's main reading room—which houses The Crouse Library for Publishing Arts—soars to a height of three stories topped by a magnificent skylight. The establishment of the Apprentices' Library put the Society well in the forefront of social reform. Later in the century there would be a great boom in libraries, and much thought would be directed toward public education, but in 1820 such ideas were still new, and the Apprentices' Library was one of the first public libraries in the city of New York. Its aim was to provide good and instructive reading for apprentice boys who worked all day, and had no other access to books and the library therefore kept evening hours.\n\nIn 1833, by amendment to its charter, the Society was authorized to increase its usefulness by reserving a portion of its income for the purposes of \"promoting and disseminating literary and scientific knowledge,\" which was determined could be best done by means of lectures, and more recently, through the cultural and educational activities of the New York Center for Independent Publishing. The lecture series, which began in 1837—and continues today—featured such illuminaries as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Ward Beecher, Horace Greeley, Wendell Phillips, and Rear – Admiral Robert E. Peary. Known today as the Labor, Landmarks and Literature Lecture Series, the series continues the Society's long tradition of public lectures.\n\nIndividual Society members must have been prospering during these years, too. It was during the 1830s that the French observer Chevalier made this comment about the American mechanic and tradesmen: \"He dresses like a member of Congress, and his women-folk dress the same as those of a wealthy New York merchant. His house is warm, neat, and comfortable; his table almost as plentifully provided as that of the wealthiest fellow-citizen.\"\n\nIn 1878, the General Society opened an Apprentices' Library at its headquarters \"on Sixteenth-street, near Union-square\" to house its collection of 60,000 books, mostly \"practical works in serviceable bindings\" of use to its 8,000 members. These members of the Apprentices' Library included about 4,000 apprentices and 3,000 \"girls in shops\", along with members of the general public, who paid $2 per year, and General Society members. The building had room for up to 100,000 books and featured an on-site residence for the librarian and janitor.\n\nDuring the 1840s the Society also provided college scholarships. It was decided that each year two students from Mechanics Institute would attend the University of the City of New York, free of charge. In addition, the society paid to send certain students to other schools.\n\nThe library continued to be well patronized during these years, and in 1845, Benjamin DeMilt a watchmaker and former president of the Society, bequeathed his entire personal library to the Society, adding 1,800 volumes to the collection.\n\nThe Society continued in its role as a pioneer in social reform by maintaining separate courses for women. In 1887, these classes for young women included stenography and typewriting – a very innovative idea at a time when few women were integrated into the office work force.\n\nIn 1861, when the Civil War broke out, the Society placed itself firmly behind the government of Abraham Lincoln. About $8,000 in government bonds were purchased and many Society members enlisted in the Volunteer Engineer Regiment.\n\nIn 1885, the Society celebrated a landmark 100th birthday. A banquet was held at Delmonico's Restaurant and it was well attended both by Society members and by public officials. The Society's growth continued, and in 1899 the organization moved to the current home at 20 West 44th Street.\n\nBetween 1899 and 1908, Andrew Carnegie, a Society member, contributed over half a million dollars to the Society. Generous gifts came in from other members as well, and by 1913 attendance at Mechanics Institute had reached 2,300. The curriculum now included such \"mechanical age\" courses as automobile drafting and industrial electricity.\n\nLocated today at 20 West 44th Street, across from the Harvard Club of New York, the building is the fifth home of the General Society and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Originally designed by Lamb and Rich and constructed as the Berkeley School for Boys, the building was acquired by The General Society in 1899. Member and steel magnate Andrew Carnegie provided the funds to significantly expand the building in 1903. In order to accommodate more students, two wings were added to the rear and three new upper stories replaced an original fourth-floor gymnasium. The expansion was designed by Ralph S. Townsend and blends monumental Beaux Arts classicism with Renaissance elements.\n\nThe Society is also home to the John M. Mossman Lock Museum. The Mossman collection represents one of the most complete anthologies of bank and vault locks in the world, with more than 370 locks, keys and tools dating from 4000 BC to the modern 20th-century. The museum is open to the public.\n\nNotable General Society members include Duncan Phyfe (furniture maker), James Harper (publisher, 66th mayor of NYC), Peter Cooper (inventor, industrialist), Nathaniel Currier (lithographer), John Bishop Putnam (printer and publisher), Andrew Carnegie (industrialist and philanthropist), Abram S. Hewitt (Glue Manufacturer, 87th mayor of NYC) and former presidents of the society: Stephen Allen (sailmaker, 55th mayor of NYC), Gideon Lee (shoemaker, 61st mayor of NYC), and Jacob Aaron Westervelt (shipbuilder, 72nd mayor of NYC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42915614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42915614", "title": "Goldhaber fellows", "text": "Goldhaber fellows\n\n\"Goldhaber fellows\" are the recipients of the Gertrude and Maurice Goldhaber Dinstinguished Fellowship. The fellowship programs are governed by Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL). In 2001, BNL has created the Fellowships Program in honor of Gertrude Goldhaber and Maurice Goldhaber, long-time scientists at the lab. The funds of fellowship comes from Battelle Memorial Institute and Stony Brook University, partners in Brookhaven Science Associates. Each year, three to four Goldhaber Fellows are chosen from many nominations in all areas of science performed in the lab. These prestigious Fellowships are awarded to candidates with exceptional talent and credentials who have a strong desire for independent research at the frontiers of their fields. The fellowships are three-year appointments. Candidates should be less than three years past receipt of the Ph.D. at the time of the application. The intention of the program is to select individuals who will qualify for scientific staff positions at BNL upon completion of the appointment. Some Fellows stay on as new BNL scientific staff. Some move on to contribute to faculty positions at other institutions around the world.\n"}
{"id": "30237837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30237837", "title": "Gunhild Rosén", "text": "Gunhild Rosén\n\nGunhild Rosén (7 December 1855, Norrköping - 1928) was a Swedish ballerina, choreographer and a ballet master of the Royal Swedish Ballet in Stockholm.\n\nGunhild Rosén was a student of Anders Selinder. She became a figurant dancer at the Ballet of the Royal Swedish Opera in 1872, second dancer in 1875 and premier dancer in 1881; she was a vice ballet master in 1894, and ballet master from 1922 to 1926.\n\nShe composed the ballet \"I Ungern\" (\"In Hungary\") and the balett part for the opera \"Brudköpet\" (\"Bride purchase\"). She performed in Copenhagen in 1878, 1879 and 1890 and in Oslo in 1880, 1881 and 1890. Her most famous parts was Valse brillante and Svanilda in \"Coppelia\" as well as parts in \"Aufforderung z. Tanz\", \"Skugg-balett\" and \"Blomsterfesten i Genzano\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4750965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750965", "title": "Gwynneth Coogan", "text": "Gwynneth Coogan\n\nGwynneth \"Gwyn\" Coogan (born Gwynneth Hardesty; August 21, 1965 in Trenton, New Jersey) is an American former Olympic athlete, educator and mathematician.\n\nHardesty attended Phillips Exeter Academy for two years, where she played squash and field hockey. She then attended Smith College, graduating in 1987, where she majored in math and took up running for the first time, and became the two-time NCAA Division III champion in the 3,000 meters. She qualified for the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, where she competed in the 10,000 meters. Four years later, she was an alternate for the women's marathon for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. She was the 1998 United States National Champion in the Marathon.\n\nCoogan went on to earn her Ph.D. in math from the University of Colorado in 1999, working primarily in number theory. She did post-doctorate work with Ken Ono at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, taught at Hood College, and currently teaches math at Phillips Exeter Academy. She was married to fellow Olympian Mark Coogan.\n"}
{"id": "17974170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17974170", "title": "Higher education policy", "text": "Higher education policy\n\nHigher education policy refers to how higher education institutions like universities are organised, funded and operated in a society. According to Ansell (2006) there are \"three different institutional forms of higher education provision: the Anglo-Saxon, Continental and the Scandinavian education system.\"\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Anglo-Saxon education system leads to a mass, partially private and publicly inexpensive system\". The Anglo-Saxon system is sometimes described as an Anglo-American education system.\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Continental educational system leads to an elite, fully public and inexpensive system\".\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Scandinavian education system leads to a mass, fully public, but highly expensive system\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27773802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27773802", "title": "InsideTrack", "text": "InsideTrack\n\nInsideTrack supports colleges and universities in increasing student enrollment, persistence, and graduation rates. The company was founded in 2001 by Alan Tripp, who also founded SCORE! Educational Centers, and is based in San Francisco, California, with additional operations in Portland, Oregon and Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nThey were named one of the 10 most innovative companies in education by Fast Company (magazine) in 2013. Also in 2013, a study documenting the impact of their work, conducted by professor Eric Bettinger of the Stanford Graduate School of Education and Rachel Baker of University of California Irvine was published by the American Educational Research Association.\n\nThe company provides coaching programs, analytics, technology and management consulting services to many types of educational institutions including public and private universities, community colleges and distance education programs.\n"}
{"id": "34066240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34066240", "title": "International Academic Association for the Enhancement of Learning in Higher Education", "text": "International Academic Association for the Enhancement of Learning in Higher Education\n\nThe Institute for Learning in Higher Education (LiHE) was set up in 2007 to advance learning centred higher education. It functions a network bringing together international researchers and practitioners within higher education, to further advance research in this area. LiHE is voluntarily run by a group of co-directors, all serving as professors at various universities and business schools.\n\nThe executive director of LiHE is Professor Dr. Claus Nygaard (Copenhagen Business School, Denmark). Co-directors are Professor Dr. John Branch (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor); Professor Dr. Paul Bartholomew (Aston University, Birmingham). Previous co-directors are Dr. Nigel Courtney (Cass Business School, London ); Professor Clive Holtham (Cass Business School, London ).\n"}
{"id": "49078161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49078161", "title": "International Conference on Sociolinguistics", "text": "International Conference on Sociolinguistics\n\nThe International Conference on Sociolinguistics (\"ICS\") is a new forum for sociolinguistics research'. It aims to function as a dissemination platform as well as a research hub, bringing together academics working in diverse subfields of sociolinguistics. The inaugural conference (ICS-1)', entitled \"Insights from Complexity, Superdiversity and Multimodality\" will be hosted by Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest, 1-3 September, 2016.\n\nICS-2 will be hosted by Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest, 6-8 September, 2018, after which ICS will become itinerant.\nICS-3 venue application is open.\n"}
{"id": "49589960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49589960", "title": "Jahrom university", "text": "Jahrom university\n\nJahrom University is a public university in Jahrom, Fars Province, Iran. This university is depended to the \"Ministry of Science, Research and Technology\" (the government ministry of science, research and technology in Iran). In 1973, Jahrom University had first started its activities as an adjunct university in the form of Faculty of Basic Sciences for Shiraz University. This university then started its activities separately as a public university in 2006. The current president of the university is Dr. Masoud Naderian Jahromi.\n\nThe university offers undergraduate and graduate programs in a variety of disciplines.\n\nToday the university has the following faculties:\n\n1- Faculty of Basic Sciences\n\n2- Faculty of Engineering and Technology\n\n3- Faculty of Agriculture\n\n4- Faculty of Literature and Humanities\n"}
{"id": "32393941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32393941", "title": "Joey Reiman", "text": "Joey Reiman\n\nJoseph Alden Reiman (born March 31, 1953) is an American advertising businessman and author.\n\nJoseph Alden Reiman was born to a Jewish family in New York City on March 31, 1953, to businessman Henri Reiman and astrologer Phyllis Joy. He is a graduate of Brandeis University with a bachelor's degree in American Studies.\nAfter graduation, Reiman interned under director Federico Fellini in Rome, Italy. While in Italy, Reiman was a passenger in a car accident where he was partially paralyzed, losing the use of his right arm.\nSix months after his accident Reiman entered the world of advertising.\n\nReiman was chairman of one of the advertising agency, Babbitt & Reiman, before its acquisition by London-based GGT in the early 1990s. He went on to become the founder and CEO of the Joey Reiman Agency, where he remained until 1995. BrightHouse has worked on campaigns for clients such as The Coca-Cola Company, Procter & Gamble, McDonald’s, Pepperidge Farm and Newell Brands.\n\n\nReiman is married Cynthia Good, founder and owner of Little Pink Book. Together the couple has two sons Alden and Julien. Reiman is an adjunct marketing professor at the Goizueta Business School of Emory University. He leads workshops for fortune 500 companies. Joey is also a frequent marketing and branding guest expert on CNN.\n\n"}
{"id": "26677281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26677281", "title": "List of multilingual presidents of the United States", "text": "List of multilingual presidents of the United States\n\nOf the 44 men who have served as Presidents of the United States, at least half have displayed proficiency in speaking or writing a language other than English. Of these, only one, Martin Van Buren, learned English as his second language; his first language was Dutch. Four of the earliest Presidents were multilingual, with John Quincy Adams and Thomas Jefferson demonstrating proficiency in a number of foreign languages.\n\nJames A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur knew Ancient Greek and Latin, but it was Garfield's ambidextrous ability that would lead to rumors that he could write both at the same time. Both Theodore and Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke French, and Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke German. Herbert Hoover spoke some Mandarin Chinese.\n\nJohn Adams, the second president of the United States, learned to read Latin at a young age. In preparation for attending Harvard University, Adams attended a school for improving his Latin skills. While posted in France, Adams became fluent in French.\n\nThomas Jefferson spoke and read multiple languages, which included French. After his death, a number of other books, dictionaries, and grammar manuals in various languages were found in Jefferson's library, suggesting that he studied additional languages beyond those he spoke and wrote well. Among these were books in Italian, Arabic, Irish, Welsh and Dutch. Regarding Spanish, Jefferson told John Quincy Adams that he had learned the language over the course of nineteen days while sailing from the United States to France. He had borrowed a Spanish grammar and a copy of \"Don Quixote\" from a friend and read them on the voyage. Adams expressed skepticism, noting Jefferson's tendency to tell \"large stories\".\n\nJames Madison began his studies of Latin at the age of twelve and had mastered Greek and Latin by the time he entered the College of New Jersey, later Princeton University. He produced many translations of Latin orations of Grotius, Pufendorf, and Vattel. He also studied Horace and Ovid. He learned Greek as an admissions requirement for higher college learning.\n\nWhile in college, Madison learned to speak and read Hebrew. When he could have graduated, Madison remained at college for an additional year to study ethics and Hebrew in greater depth.\n\nJames Monroe adopted many French customs while a diplomat in Paris, including learning fluent French. The entire Monroe family knew the language, and often spoke it with one another at home.\n\nJohn Quincy Adams went to school in both France and the Netherlands, and spoke fluent French and conversational Dutch. Adams strove to improve his abilities in Dutch throughout his life, and at times translated a page of Dutch a day to help improve his mastery of the language. Official documents that he translated were sent to the Secretary of State of the United States, so that Adams' studies would serve a useful purpose as well. When his father appointed him United States Ambassador to Prussia, Adams dedicated himself to becoming proficient in German in order have the tools to strengthen relations between the two countries. He improved his skills by translating articles from German to English, and his studies made his diplomatic efforts more successful.\n\nIn addition to the two languages he spoke fluently, he also studied Italian, but he admitted to making little progress in it since he had no one with whom to practice speaking and hearing the language, as well as Russian, but never achieved fluency. Adams also read Latin very well, translated a page a day of Latin text, and studied classical Greek in his spare time.\n\nMartin Van Buren was the only American president who did not speak English as his first language. He was born in Kinderhook, New York, a primarily Dutch community, spoke Dutch as his first language, and continued to speak it at home. He learned English as a second language while attending Kinderhook's local school house. He obtained a small understanding of Latin while studying at Kinderhook Academy and solidified his understanding of English there.\n\nAt Hampden–Sydney College, William Henry Harrison spent a considerable time learning Latin, and favored reading about the military history of ancient Rome and Julius Caesar from Latin histories. While there, he also learned a small amount of French.\n\nJohn Tyler excelled at school, where he learned both Latin and Greek.\n\nAlthough James K. Polk had no background in foreign languages upon entering college, he proved a quick learner. Upon graduating from the University of North Carolina, he was asked to give the welcoming address at graduation; he chose to do so in Latin. He proved very proficient in classical languages, and received honors in both Greek and Latin on his degree.\n\nJames Buchanan studied a traditional classical curriculum, which included Latin and Greek, at the private Old Stone Academy before transferring to Dickinson College. He excelled in both subjects.\n\nRutherford B. Hayes studied Latin and Greek at the Isaac Webb school in Middletown, Connecticut. He initially struggled with the languages, but soon became proficient in them. He also briefly studied French there.\n\nJames A. Garfield knew and taught both Latin and Greek, and he was the first President to campaign in two languages (English and German). He was also ambidextrous. Stories emerged to the effect that Garfield would entertain his friends by having them ask him questions, and then writing the answer in Latin with one hand while simultaneously writing the answer in Greek with the other. However, specifics of these stories are not documented.\n\nChester A. Arthur was known to be comfortable enough in Latin and Greek to converse with other men who knew the languages.\n\nA foreign correspondent noted that although Roosevelt spoke clearly and quickly, he had a German accent while speaking in French. He read both German and French very well and kept a good number of books written in these languages in his personal library. He quite often read fiction, philosophy, religion, and history books in both French and German. He was most comfortable with informal discussions in French, but he made two public addresses in the West Indies in French in 1916. He recognized that, while he spoke French rapidly and was able to understand others, he used unusual grammar \"without tense or gender\". John Hay, secretary of state under Roosevelt, commented that Roosevelt spoke odd, grammatically incorrect French, but was never difficult to understand.\n\nThough he could read and understand the language thoroughly, Roosevelt struggled to speak German. When Roosevelt attempted to speak with a native German, he had to apologize after botching the attempt. While not fluent in the language, Roosevelt was also able to read Italian. Though he at one point studied Greek and Latin, Roosevelt found both languages a \"dreary labor\" to translate.\n\nRoosevelt understood some of the Dutch language and taught songs in Dutch to his children and grandchildren, as is documented in a letter in English that he wrote to the painter Nelly Bodenheim in Amsterdam.\n\nWoodrow Wilson learned German as part of earning his Ph.D. in history and political science from Johns Hopkins University. However, he never claimed proficiency in the language. While he did read German sources when they were available, he often complained about the amount of time and effort it took him.\n\nHerbert Hoover and his wife, Lou Hoover, once translated a book from Latin to English. The pair took five years, and sacrificed much of their spare time, to translating the Latin mining tract \"De re metallica\". While at Stanford University, Hoover had access to the extensive library of John Casper Branner, where he found the important mining book which had never been fully translated into English. For years, five nights of the week were spent translating the book, including naming objects that the author had merely described. The Hoovers also spoke Mandarin Chinese, having lived in China from April 1899 until August 1900. Lou Hoover studied the language daily in China but Herbert Hoover confessed that he \"never absorbed more than a hundred words.\" Still, the two would converse in their limited Mandarin when they wanted to keep their conversations private from guests or the press.\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt spoke both German and French. He was raised speaking both, as his early education consisted of governesses from Europe preparing him for boarding school in his teens. In particular, he had a German governess and a French governess who taught him their respective languages. A Swiss governess, Jeanne Sandoz, furthered his studies in both languages, particularly stressing French. Roosevelt spent one summer of his schooling in Germany; both his time with his instructors and his frequent trips abroad allowed him to master both German and French, though he always spoke them with a distinct New England accent. Though he never had a mastery of the language, his governesses also taught him a limited amount of Latin.\n\nRoosevelt gave a bilingual speech (in English and French) during a 1936 visit to Quebec City. \n\nJimmy Carter has a functional command of Spanish, but has never been grammatically perfect. Carter studied the language at the United States Naval Academy and continued his studies while an officer of the United States Navy. Carter sometimes spoke Spanish in 1976 television campaign advertisements, but in his native South Georgia accent.\n\nHe could speak fairly fluently, but joked about his sometimes flawed understanding of the language while discoursing with native speakers. Carter has written and given a number of addresses in the Spanish language and sometimes spoke to constituents in Spanish. To practice his Spanish, he and his wife Rosalynn read the Bible in Spanish to each other every night.\n\nWhile a freshman at Georgetown University, Bill Clinton was required to choose a foreign language to study, and chose German because he was \"impressed by the clarity and precision of the language\". He is able to hold casual conversation in the language. Later, while giving a speech at the Brandenburg Gate, he gave part of a speech in German, pledging to the 50,000 Germans gathered there that \"\" (\"America stands on your side, now and forever\").\n\nGeorge W. Bush speaks some Spanish and has delivered speeches in the language. His speeches in Spanish have had English interspersed throughout.\n\nFrom age six to ten (1967-1971), Barack Obama lived in Jakarta, Indonesia and attended local Indonesian-language schools: as a result he was able to speak Indonesian fluently as a child. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "322791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322791", "title": "List of universities in Guatemala", "text": "List of universities in Guatemala\n\nThis is a list of universities in Guatemala.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6909566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6909566", "title": "Lucian Athanasius Reinhart", "text": "Lucian Athanasius Reinhart\n\nBrother Lucian Athanasius Reinhart, F.S.C. was an American De La Salle Brother who was last assigned to the De La Salle Brothers in the Philippines and was a President of De La Salle College in Manila.\n\nHe was born James Hyde Reinhart on May 24, 1911, in Kansas City, Missouri and entered the novitiate of the Brothers of the Christian Schools at the La Salle Institute in Glencoe, Missouri, and received the religious habit in 1926, at which time he was given the religious name Lucian Athanasius. In 1929 he was assigned to the St. George High School in Evanston, Illinois, and two years later, he would earn his Master of Arts degree from DePaul University in Chicago. In 1933, he was assigned to the De La Salle Institute, also in Chicago, and finally to the Christian Brothers College in St. Louis in 1934.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, brother Reinhart volunteered for mission work and was sent to the Philippines, arriving in Manila on October 30, 1936. Upon his arrival, he was assigned as Pro-Director of the Brothers' Community and concurrent principal of the College's High School Department. He was also the first American Brother in the Philippines to earn a Doctor of Philosophy Degree, after writing a dissertation on the Educational Philosophy of John Baptist de La Salle at the University of Santo Tomas.\n\nDuring World War II, Reinhart was interned at Los Baños, Laguna, with the rest of the American Brothers. He would be freed by American troops in 1945 but would refuse to be returned to the United States.\n\nReinhart stayed in the Philippines to rehabilitate De La Salle College and was appointed its President in 1945. It was also during this time that he was forced to return to the United States due to health reasons. In July 1946, he returned to Manila and formed new Faculty and Brother missionaries.\n\nHe died on May 27, 1950. The gym (on which lot the Don Enrique T. Yuchengco Hall now stands) of the De La Salle College was named in his memory as well as De La Salle University's Sports Complex, now the Enrique M. Razon Sports Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "34955083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34955083", "title": "Magna Charta Universitatum", "text": "Magna Charta Universitatum\n\nThe Magna Charta Universitatum is a document to celebrate university traditions and encourage bonds among European universities, but it also serves as a universal inspiration and is open to universities throughout the world. It was founded by the University of Bologna and the European Rectors' Conference (now EUA) in 1988 and has been signed by 889 universities from 88 countries.\n\nThe \"Magna Charta Universitatum Europaeum\" was formally signed by 430 university rectors on September 18, 1988 at Piazza Maggiore in Bologna, to commemorate the 900th anniversary of the founding of the University of Bologna. The final text of the document was drafted in January 1988 in Barcelona.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6407386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6407386", "title": "Margaret Scott (dancer)", "text": "Margaret Scott (dancer)\n\nDame Catherine Margaret Mary Scott (born 26 April 1922) is a South African ballet dancer who found fame as a teacher, choreographer, and school administrator in Australia. As the first director of the Australian Ballet School, she is recognized as one of the founders of the strong ballet tradition of her adopted country.\n\nCatherine Margaret Mary Scott was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. As a child, she was encouraged by her free-spirited family to pursue her interest in dance, which had developed early in her girlhood. Throughout her youth, she attended ballet classes at the Conmee School of Dancing, where, under the direction of London-trained Ivy Conmee, instruction was given according to the syllabus of the Royal Academy of Dancing. Upon graduation from the Parktown Convent School, Scott went with her mother to London in 1939, when she was 17, and auditioned successfully for entrance to the Sadler's Wells Ballet School. There she polished her classical technique under the demanding tutelage of Ninette de Valois and a faculty of renowned teachers.\n\nDespite the outbreak of war with Germany in September 1939, soon after her arrival in England, Scott decided to remain in London and continue her dance training. After some months at the Sadler's Wells school, she joined the Sadler's Wells Ballet and began her professional career. She stayed with the company only a year. Attracted by the more adventurous repertory of Ballet Rambert, she applied to Marie Rambert and was engaged as a soloist with her company.\n\nPromoted to principal dancer in 1943, Scott spent five more years with Ballet Rambert, dancing leading and supporting roles in the repertory, including audience favorites such as Michel Fokine's \"Les Sylphides\" and Antony Tudor's \"Jardin aux Lilas\" as well as new works by Andrée Howard, Frank Staff, and Walter Gore. The war years were difficult ones for the Rambert company, but it began to recover its strength and its popularity in the postwar years. In 1947, Ballet Rambert went overseas, to Australia, under the auspices of D. D. O'Connor and the British Council. The company's immensely successful tour was extended several times until eighteen months had been spent away from home. When the tour finally ended, some dancers, including Sally Gilmour and Maggie Scott, chose to remain in Australia.\n\nIn 1949, Scott was a founding member of Gertrude Johnson's National Theatre Ballet, based in Melbourne and directed by Joyce Graeme, a former principal dancer with Ballet Rambert. During the Christmas season of 1949, Scott appeared in a featured role in \"The Glass Slipper\", a retelling of the Cinderella story, and early in 1950 she danced the barefoot role of the Thipa Thipa Bird in \"Corroboree\", choreographed by Rex Reid to music by John Antill. Later that year she restaged Frank Staff's charming \"Peter and the Wolf\", which he had created in 1940 for Ballet Rambert. In 1951, she tried her hand at original choreography, setting \"Apollon Musagète\" to the Igor Stravinsky score for Laurel Martyn's Victorian Ballet Guild. She returned to London in 1952 and was one of six dancers invited by John Cranko to perform his works at the Kenton Theatre in Henley-on-Thames and at the Aldeburgh Festival. She then rejoined the Rambert company as ballet mistress and assistant to Madam Rambert, in which roles she was responsible for directing the company on tour. \n\nIn March 1953, Scott married Derek Denton, an Australian medical doctor and researcher and subsequently returned with him to Australia, which she had found so congenial on her previous visit. For the next two years she taught classes and managed the school of Paul Hammond and his wife Peggy Sager while they were on tour with the Borovansky Ballet. She then opened her own school in a church hall in Toorak, a prestigious suburb of Melbourne. In the late 1950s, she participated in negotiations with the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust that led to the formation of the Australian Ballet in 1962 under the direction of Peggy van Praagh.\n\nScott then undertook planning for the foundation of the Australian Ballet School, which was realized in 1964. Appointed by Van Praagh as the first director of the school, she remained in this post for 26 years, until she retired in 1990. During her long tenure, she exerted a powerful influence on the development of the school and its students, many of whom became remarkable dancers, choreographers, directors, and teachers. Marilyn Rowe, celebrated ballerina and former director of the Australian Ballet School, and Graeme Murphy, former director of the Sydney Dance Company and internationally known choreographer, are only two of Dame Maggie's successful protégés.\n\nDuring her years as director and administrator of the Australian Ballet School, Scott also choreographed several ballets, notably \"Recollections of a Beloved Place\", set to music by Tchaikovsky, for Ballet Victoria in 1975. She expanded her activities in the performing arts as representative of Australia on the Council of the World Dance Alliance, as a jurist at international ballet competitions in Moscow, and as leader of a group of teachers at ballet companies in Beijing and Shanghai. During the 1990s, Dame Margaret returned to the stage on a number of occasions. In 1990, she danced as Aunt Sophy in a gala performance of \"The Nutcracker\", produced in her honour by Robert Ray, and she showed herself to be a talented actress in a non-dancing role in the play \"In the Body of the Son\" by Nicholas Rowe, presented at the Darwin Festival in 1995. Her greatest triumph, however, came in 1992, when, at the age of 70, she appeared as Clara the Elder in \"Nutcracker: The Story of Clara\", Graeme Murphy's imaginative reinterpretation of the Christmas classic. She repeated the role during the 1994 and 2000 seasons of the Australian Ballet. \n\nScott was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1976, Dame Commander (DBE) in 1981, and Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) in 2005. She has been the recipient of many other honours and awards, including an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University of Melbourne in 1989 and an award for lifetime achievement at the Australian Dance Awards in 1998. Over the years, Scott had been a part-time student of teaching methods at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT), where she eventually gained a graduate diploma in visual and performing arts in 2000. She was granted an honorary degree of Doctor of Education from her alma mater in 2001. In 2007, she was the recipient of the James Cassius Williamson Award, given by Live Performance Australia in recognition of \"individuals who have made an outstanding contribution in the Australian live entertainment and performing arts industry and shaped the future of the industry for the better.\"\n\nScott met Derek Denton, a doctor at the Royal Melbourne Hospital, in 1947, when she and her friend Sally Gilmour went there to deliver flowers received after the triumphant opening night of Ballet Rambert. They married in 1953 and had two sons. Dr. Denton, who founded the Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, is considered one of Australia's greatest scientific minds. After their marriage, he continued to publish his research into the nature of consciousness in animals, and she remained actively engaged in the dance world. Late in life, she established the Dame Margaret Scott Fund for Choreography, which assisted the creation of Alexei Ratmansky's surrealistic \"Cinderella\", an outstanding success that played to sold-out houses in Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide in 2013 and 2014. She has also had significant input into the choreographic initiatives of the Australian Institute of Classical Dance. She is the subject of a biography by Michelle Potter, \"Dame Maggie Scott: A Life in Dance\" (2014).\n"}
{"id": "41082372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41082372", "title": "McMullen Naval History Symposium", "text": "McMullen Naval History Symposium\n\nThe McMullen Naval History Symposium is a biennial international academic conference held at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland devoted to the history of the world's navies. It has become the \"largest regular meeting of naval historians in the world\" and has been described as the U.S. Navy's \"single most important interaction with [an] academic historical audience\"\n\nThis regular biennial series of symposia began as the U.S. Naval Academy Naval History Symposium. The first regular symposium was held in Annapolis on 27–28 April 1973, following a successful 1971 conference that had been conceived as an annual event and on a smaller scale with limited, invited participation. In 1977 for the Third Symposium, the Naval Academy History Department decided to expand the concept and model it along the lines of the academic conferences sponsored by the American Historical Association and the Organization of American Historians\n\nThe conference that had been planned to open on 12 September 2001 was abruptly cancelled by the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C., on September 11, 2001 and left the future of the conference in grave doubt. It took four years for the Naval Academy's leadership to approve the resumption of the conference on a biennial schedule, but with strong support the series resumed with the Fifteenth Conference in 2007. Facilitating this, in 2006 the U.S. Naval Academy Alumni Foundation granted funds from the estate of Bill Daniels and the McMullen Seapower Lecture gift funds to support the symposium and to name it the McMullen Naval History Symposium in memory of Dr. John J. McMullen, Naval Academy Class of 1940, a naval architect, engineer, and sports club owner. Dr McMullen is also commemorated through a keynote McMullen Seapower lecture given at the symposium by the holder of the Class of 1957 Distinguished Chair of Naval Heritage.\n\nThe symposium has shown strength and growth in recent years. Despite the economic recession, more than two-hundred participants from seventeen countries attended the 2009 symposium. and the 2011 symposium had over 250 in attendance over 125 papers presented.\n\nIn 2009, the McMullen Seapower Fellowship was established for U.S Naval Academy faculty members to research, write, and deliver Seapower lectures at the biennial naval history symposium.\n\nMcMullen Seapower Fellows\n\nMcMullen Post Doctoral Fellows\nIn 2012, a postdoctoral fellowship was created and is to be filled biennially:\n\n\nNo symposia were held in 2003 and 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "48246808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48246808", "title": "Open Contracting Data Standard", "text": "Open Contracting Data Standard\n\nThe Open Contracting Data Standard is a standards development initiative issued by the Omidyar Network and the World Bank which commenced in November 2014.\n\nAn early version 1.0 was released in July 2015 and version 1.1 is being developed in Q 3 and 4 2015. OCDS was designed with a focus on public procurement of goods, works and services, but can be extended for use in other contexts. Extensions for Public Private Partnership (PPP) and Extractives concessions are under development.\n\nAdoption of the standard requires publishers to release data under an open license. Publishers are encouraged to use a scale of publishing complexity, from basic which features just tender notices, to advanced and extended data, which features contract award notices, contract details and persistent URIs.\n\nOpen Contracting claim that the use of the standard will reduce costs, create more competitive contracting and prevent fraud and corruption.\n\nPilot implementations are underway in the following countries:\n\nColombia, Costa Rica and Paraguay have also expressed interest in adopting the standard.\n\nPrivate sector companies using the standard:\n\nProject website: http://standard.open-contracting.org\n\n"}
{"id": "31868616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31868616", "title": "Panyaden International School", "text": "Panyaden International School\n\nPanyaden International School is an international bilingual school for both preschool (nursery and kindergarten) and primary children south of Chiang Mai (north Thailand). The school was founded to deliver a holistic education that integrates Buddhist principles and green awareness with the International Primary Curriculum (IPC). Panyaden School was certified as an international school using the British curriculum alongside the IPC in August 2016. All other elements, such as Thai language and culture, remain the same.\n\nPanyaden International School is registered with the Thai Ministry of Education Its curriculum is taught in both Thai (50 percent) and English (50 percent) from nursery to Year 6/7 (the end of primary school). Each class has a Thai teacher and fluent English-speaking teacher.\n\nThe kindergarten curriculum focuses on the development of four areas: physical, emotional, moral/social, and intellectual through activity and play-based learning.\n\nThe primary school curriculum integrates Buddhist principles and green awareness with the International Primary Curriculum (IPC) which emphasizes learning through experience, within the National Curriculum for England framework developing enquiring minds and independent thinking.\n\nThe school uses a subject integration approach that supports deeper understanding of each subject and the natural interconnectivity between them. It stimulates the ability to look at situations and problems from different angles. Additional \"life skills\" classes cover topics such as valuing nature, healthy eating, and respect for others and give opportunities to practise core subjects through a variety of methods and activities.\n\nThe staff consists of both Thai and native English teachers from Canada, the US, Australia, and the UK.\n\nThe school is an example for eco-friendly architecture and as such it has received both local as well as international recognition. The buildings that make up the school fall into two categories. The classrooms and offices were built with load bearing walls made of rammed earth which carry bamboo roofs, cladding as well as structural elements. Due to the high thermal mass of rammed earth walls, temperature variations are moderated, thus eliminating the need for air conditioning. In addition, rammed earth walls keep humidity at specific levels which are ideal for asthma sufferers. The several open pavilions (which are called \"sala\" in Thai) that house the assembly hall, the Buddhist chapel, the school canteen, and a covered play area next to the swimming pool, are completely made out of bamboo, also using bamboo set on large boulders of natural stone for the structural supports. \"24H Architecture\" from the Netherlands was responsible for the initial design. with the construction and subsequent designs of additional buildings by Chiangmai Life Construction.\n\nAlso in adherence to the concepts behind sustainable architecture, waste water is treated before its re-entry into the environment, and food waste is recycled to produce biogas for cooking in the school kitchen, and as organic fertilizer for use on the school grounds. To minimise the need for artificial lighting, skylights are incorporated into the roofs of the buildings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55718325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55718325", "title": "Paradise Papers", "text": "Paradise Papers\n\nThe Paradise Papers are a set of 13.4 million confidential electronic documents relating to offshore investments that were leaked to the German reporters Frederik Obermaier and Bastian Obermayer from the newspaper\" Süddeutsche Zeitung\". The newspaper shared them with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, and a network of more than 380 journalists. Some of the details were made public on 5 November 2017 and stories are still being released.\n\nThe documents originate from legal firm Appleby, the corporate services providers Estera and Asiaciti Trust, and business registries in 19 tax jurisdictions. They contain the names of more than 120,000 people and companies. Among those whose financial affairs are mentioned are, separately, AIG, Prince Charles and Queen Elizabeth II, President of Colombia Juan Manuel Santos, and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross. At 1.4 terabytes in size, this is second only to the Panama Papers of 2016 as the biggest data leak in history.\n\nOn 20 October 2017, an anonymous Reddit user hinted at the existence of the Paradise Papers. Later that month, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) approached the offshore law firm Appleby with allegations of wrongdoing. Appleby said that some of its data had been stolen in a cyberattack the previous year, and denied the ICIJ's allegations. After media outlets started reporting on the documents, the company said that there was \"no evidence of wrongdoing\", that they \"are a law firm which advises clients on legitimate and lawful ways to conduct their business\", and that they \"do not tolerate illegal behaviour\".\n\nAppleby stated the firm \"was not the subject of a leak but of a serious criminal act\" and that \"this was an illegal computer hack\". \"Our systems were accessed by an intruder who deployed the tactics of a professional hacker\", the company said.\n\nThe documents were acquired by the German newspaper \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", which had also obtained the Panama Papers in 2016. According to the BBC, the name \"Paradise Papers\" reflects \"the idyllic profiles of many of the offshore jurisdictions whose workings are unveiled\", so-called tax havens, or \"tax paradises\".\n\nThe data breach comprises some 13.4 million documents—totaling about 1.4 terabytes—from two offshore service providers, Appleby and Asiaciti Trust, and from the company registers of 19 tax havens. \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" journalists contacted the ICIJ, which has been investigating the documents with 100 media partners. The consortium made the data available to these media partners using Neo4j, a graph-database platform made for connected data, and Linkurious, graph-visualization software. This allowed journalists across the globe to undertake collaborative investigative work. The documents were released by the consortium on 5 November 2017.\n\nAccording to the papers, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, Disney, Uber, Nike, Walmart, Allianz, Siemens, Global Vantedge, McDonald's, and Yahoo! are among the corporations that own offshore companies, as well as Allergan, the manufacturer of Botox. According to \"The Express Tribune\", \"Apple, Nike, and Facebook avoided billions of dollars in tax using offshore companies.\"\n\nApple criticised the reports as inaccurate and misleading, saying that it is the largest taxpayer in the world and that it \"pays every dollar it owes in every country around the world\".\nAmong the Indian companies listed in the papers are Apollo Tyres, the Essel Group, D S Construction, Emaar MGF, GMR Group, Havells, Hinduja Group, the Hiranandani Group, Jindal Steel, the Sun Group and Videocon.\n\nA great deal of the company's intangible property was exposed around the time of an internal Apple Inc. reorganization of three Irish subsidiaries. The company's 2015 gross domestic product showed a 26% increase, and close to $270 billion of intangible assets suddenly appeared in Ireland as the year began – more than the entire value of all residential property in Ireland. This may indicate that Apple took advantage of a tax incentive known as a capital allowance, which gives Irish companies generous tax breaks for buying intangible property – essentially intellectual property like patents. In other words, Apple (some suggest) transferred them to a subsidiary located in Ireland for the tax incentives, and didn't have to pay any tax on the transaction in Bermuda either, on the value it declared on the property when it sold them to itself.\n\nFollowing a 2013 US Senate investigation, which featured testimony by CEO Tim Cook, Ireland announced that henceforth Irish companies would be required to declare tax residency somewhere in the world. Apple had been paying a lower rate of corporate taxes in Ireland in a so-called sweetheart deal. This attracted the attention of EU regulators as many multinationals were doing the same thing. As the tax break in the Netherlands came to a scheduled end, Apple's law firm, Baker McKenzie, researched island tax havens, asking Appleby officials in numerous jurisdictions to confirm \"that an Irish company can conduct management activities ... without being subject to taxation in your jurisdiction.\" Two of the subsidiaries moved to Jersey and took intellectual property with them. The third is receiving tax breaks in Ireland for buying Apple IP from another Apple subsidiary.\n\nThe Jersey Financial Services Commission (JFSC) issued a Statement re Apple on 7 November 2017. The JFSC confirmed that the two Apple subsidiaries referred to by the media are not Jersey-registered companies and their understanding is that Apple funds relating to these entities have not been remitted to or held in the Island.\n\nThe JFSC states that it has not seen any of the documentation that the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) claims to hold following the Appleby data breach. If the ICIJ possesses data of a criminal or regulatory nature which relates to business activities in Jersey then the JFSC requested that this information is shared with them and, if there is any evidence of regulatory wrongdoing, then they would investigate and take action if appropriate.\n\nThe Government of Jersey (States of Jersey) also issued a statement of similar effect on 7 November 2017.\n\nIt is of further note that the jurisdiction of Jersey has recently been independently assessed as fully compliant with international regulatory guidelines on tax transparency.\n\nThe EU, under the leadership of Jean-Claude Juncker, threatened to sue Ireland over its tax deals, although Juncker himself had approved similar tax deals in his own country, Luxembourg. Apple paid all of its taxes in Ireland as required by that country so Ireland is appealing the EU decision. HP, Nike, Microsoft and others use the same tax arrangements in Ireland, Luxembourg and other countries, but Apple is frequently cited as a media example. Irish companies are required to pay taxes in Ireland, but if they convince authorities that they are \"managed and controlled\" from abroad, the companies may win an exemption.\n\nApple now holds $252 billion offshore. However, Apple has previously publicly stated that it reinvests post-tax earnings (generated outside the US) into the global economy via investment funds held offshore.\n\nGermán Efromovich, founder of Synergy Group, is linked to an offshore conglomerate used for the aerocommercial holding business with ramifications in Bermuda, Panama, and Cyprus. Efromovich used a Panamanian offshore that hid more than 20 firms located in tax havens. The conglomerate was used by Synergy Group's subsidiary Avianca Holdings in the purchase of MacAir Jet, now Avianca Argentina, aircraft company owned by Macri Group, for an amount of $10 million. Allowing Avianca to make headway in the low-cost carrier business in Argentina. The Argentine government accepted this offshores as a financial guarantee to assign air routes to Avianca. The whole operation of assigning air routes is investigated by the Argentine federal justice system in a case called \"Avianca\" in which the President of Argentina Mauricio Macri and other officials were imputed.\n\nA Kremlin-owned firm, VTB Bank, put $191 million into DST Global, an investment firm part of Mail.ru Group and founded by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, which used it to buy a large share of Twitter in 2011. A subsidiary of the Kremlin-controlled Gazprom funded an investment company that partnered with DST Global to buy shares in Facebook, reaping millions when the social media giant went public in 2012. Twitter similarly went public in 2013. The US government sanctioned VTB in 2014 because of the Russian military intervention in Crimea, but DST Global had by then sold its stake in Twitter. Four days after the Facebook IPO, a DST Global subsidiary sold more than 27 million shares of Facebook for approximately $1 billion.\n\nIn 2009, Glencore, an Anglo–Swiss multinational commodity trading and mining company, loaned $45 million to Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler in exchange for his help with officials of the Democratic Republic of Congo in negotiations over a joint venture with state-owned Gécamines at the Katanga copper mine. The current DRC president, Joseph Kabila, the son of Laurent Kabila, who sold Congolese diamond rights to Gertler, then used the proceeds to take power in a \"coup\".\n\nOne of the Katanga board members was Glencore major shareholder Telis Mistakidis, a former employee whose stock options made him a billionaire in the IPO. Glencore, which had effectively taken over Katanga, agreed to vote for the joint venture. The loan document specifically provided that repayment would be owed if agreement was not reached within three months. Gertler and Glencore each have denied wrongdoing. Appleby had worked for Glencore and its founder Marc Rich on major projects in the past, even after his indictment in 1983. Rich was indicted in the United States on federal charges of tax evasion and making controversial oil deals with Iran during the Iran hostage crisis. He received a controversial presidential pardon from U.S. President Bill Clinton on 20 January 2001, Clinton's last day in office.\n\nA separate ICIJ project found that tax auditors in Burkina Faso accused a Glencore subsidiary of deducting from its taxes \"fictitious\" payments to other Glencore subsidiaries, and of selling the zinc from its mine (to another Glencore compary) in unrefined form to minimize its revenue, which it publicly said in 2015 had not recovered from a 2017 downturn. Its CEO told shareholders before this that it expected a spike in demand, which did materialize. The mine is owned by Nantou Mining SA, which is owned by Merope Inc, a Bermuda shell company set up by Appleby with directors provided by the firm. Glencore sold Merope in April 2017 but before that it was 100% owned by Glencore Finance (Bermuda) Ltd, which was, according to a document from the Paradise Papers leaks, 100% owned by Glencore Group Funding Ltd of the United Arab Emirates, an entity in turn 100% owned by Swiss firm Glencore International AG, itself a wholly owned subsidiary of Glencore plc, registered in Jersey.\n\nDocuments were also discovered discussing Glencore's desire to keep its substantial stake in SwissMarine a secret, and that although the subsidiary's annual report showed revenues of $1.9 billion in 2014, Glencore does not mention it in its disclosures to the London Stock Exchange or any other public filing because, it said, it did not consider this a significant investment.\n\nThe Australian branch of Glencore has been demonstrated to have carried out some $25 billion in cross-currency interest rate swaps, complex financial instruments the Australian Taxation Office suspects of being used to avoid paying taxes in Australia.\n\nAppleby documents detail how Nike boosted its after-tax profits by, among other maneuvers, transferring ownership of its Swoosh trademark to a Bermudian subsidiary, Nike International Ltd. This transfer allowed the subsidiary to charge royalties to its European headquarters in Hilversum, Netherlands, effectively converting taxable company profits to an account payable in tax-free Bermuda. Although the subsidiary was effectively run by executives at Nike's main offices in Beaverton, Oregon – to the point where a duplicate of the Bermudian company's seal was needed – for tax purposes the subsidiary was treated as based in Bermuda. Its profits were not declared in Europe and came to light only because of a mostly unrelated case in US Tax Court, where papers filed by Nike briefly mention royalties in 2010, 2011 and 2012 totaling $3.86 billion. Under an arrangement with Dutch authorities, the tax break was to expire in 2014, so another reorganization transferred the intellectual property from the Bermudian company to a Dutch \"commanditaire vennootschap\" or limited partnership, Nike Innovate CV.\n\nDutch law treats income earned by a CV as if it had been earned by the principals, who owe no tax in the Netherlands if they do not reside there. One in six dollars of foreign profit earned by US multinationals was earned, at least on paper, through a Dutch CV subsidiary. Companies with similar structures include Tesla, NetApp and Uber.\n\nAppleby managed 17 offshore companies for Odebrecht, a Brazilian conglomerate, and at least one of them was used as a vehicle for paying bribes in the Operation Car Wash. Some of these offshore companies are publicly known to operate for Odebrecht in Africa and be involved in bribes. Among those involved in the operation who also are named in the papers are Marcelo Odebrecht, Brazilian businessman and former Odebrecht' CEO, his father Emílio Odebrecht and his brother Maurício Odebrecht.\n\nAppleby and various banks in the Isle of Man, including Conister Bank which is owned by Arron Banks and Jim Mellon, had business with PokerStars and its founders, Mark Scheinberg and his father Isai Scheinberg, until it was sold for $4.9 billion in 2014 to The Stars Group, formerly known as Amaya. PokerStars and its founders were pursued by the US Department of Justice for allegedly money laundering billions until they negotiated a settlement in 31 July 2012. The Stars Group along with its former member of board of directors Wesley Clark and former CEO David Baazov also did business with Appleby. In March 2016, David Baazov and other executives were charged by Canadian regulators with multiple securities fraud charges related to the acquisition of PokerStars.\n\nSaadi Yacef, freedom fighter, author, and politician, appears in the Papers in connection with a trust in the Cayman Islands, along with a former energy minister, the family of a former foreign minister and their South Pacific holdings.\n\nAn opposition party, UNITA, called for an investigation into alleged diversions from the country's sovereign wealth fund. Jean-Claude Bastos de Morais, a close associate of the son of former long-term president José Eduardo dos Santos, has invested over $2 billion from the country's sovereign wealth fund in Mauritius, according to Appleby documents. In a 20-month period he was paid over $41 million in management fees, and invested much of the money in his own projects.\n\nIbrahim Mahama, brother of former president of Ghana John Mahama, registered a company in the Isle of Man to hold the registration for his private jet, according to Appleby documents. Mahama, the CEO of Engineers & Planners Company Limited, is also under investigation for allegedly issuing bad checks. In 2016, Ghanaian authorities took his company to court for allegedly not making social security payments. The case was later settled. Ghanaian Finance Minister Ken Ofori-Atta was identified as a co-director of an offshore company with outgoing president of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.\n\nSally Kosgei, member of parliament 2008–2013 and minister of agriculture 2010 to March 2013, owned a million-dollar flat near Harrods in London through an offshore she told Appleby was funded by her flower-export company.\n\nLiberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is listed in the papers as a director of the Bermuda company Songhai Financial Holdings Ltd. a subsidiary of Databank's finance, fund management and investment company Databank Brokerage Ltd., from April 2001 until September 2012. The Ghanaian Minister for Finance and Economic Planning, Ken Ofori-Atta, was a co-founder of Databank and a co-director, with Johnson Sirleaf, of Songhai Financial Holdings.\n\nAliko Dangote, Africa's richest man with an estimated wealth of 12.1 billion, is also mentioned\nPresident of the Nigerian Senate Bukola Saraki is listed in the papers as a director and a shareholder of Tenia Ltd., a company established in the Cayman Islands in April 2001.\n\nForeign Minister Sam Kutesa is listed as beneficiary, along with his daughter, of a trust which holds the Seychelles-based Katonga Investments Ltd. Katonga gave as its source of income Enhas Uganda, another Kutesa-owned company criticized in a parliamentary committee as part of a privatization it said had been \"manipulated and taken advantage of by a few politically powerful people who sacrifice the people's interests\". Kutesa was also president of the United Nations General Assembly in 2014–2015.\n\nKutesa told the Daily Monitor he had never done anything with the company.\n\nIndia ranks 19th out of the 180 countries represented in the data in terms of the number of names. In all, there are 714 Indians in the tally, including noted political leaders. Jayant Sinha, Others named are Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan (a shareholder in a Bermuda-based digital media company), former Member of Parliament of the Rajya Sabha Vijay Mallya, son of businessman Vittal Mallya. The papers revealed that Mallya sold United Spirits to Diageo in 2013, which it later approached London-based law firm Linklaters to restructuring the group structure created by Mallya. With three other subsidiaries based in the UK, United Spirits was allegedly involved with diverting funds amounting to $1.5 billion.\n\nTwo children of deceased former president Suharto, Tommy and in addition to opposition party leader Prabowo Subianto (Suharto's former son-in-law) are listed in the papers. The Directorate General of Taxes released a statement that they will follow up the information provided on Indonesian taxpayers.\n\nFormer Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama is listed in the papers. The Bermuda-incorporated company, Hoifu Energy Group, is listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and appointed Hatoyama honorary chairman in 2013 because of his \"amicable relationship\" with the oil industry, a sector in which Hoifu planned to expand. The principal shareholder of the company was Hui Chi Ming. Neil Bush, brother of George W. Bush, was a director (deputy chairman) of the company.\n\nFormer Minister of Oil and Gas Sauat Mynbayev is listed as an original shareholder of Meridian Capital Ltd. Former BTA Bank Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov is documented for his ownership of Cayman Island-registered CFJ Star Trust, which may have been used in his alleged embezzlement and mismanagement of $10 billion of BTA money. The embezzlement is one of the largest cases of financial fraud in history.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz is listed in the papers, having set up a trust called the Antarctic Trust owned by a Delaware corporation. Aziz, a former Citibank executive, told the ICIJ he had set the trust up for estate planning purposes and that the funds had come from his employment at Citibank. An internal Appleby document raised concerns about warrants issued for him in connection with the killing of a local leader. Aziz dismissed both the murder charge and the allegations of financial impropriety.\n\nAlfred Gusenbauer was head of the Social Democratic Party of Austria from 2000 to 2008 and Austria's chancellor from January 2007 to December 2008. He is listed as a director for Novia Management, a Maltese company listed as a shareholder in Novia Funds Sicav Plc, also Malta-based, which includes among its other shareholders , who was arrested in 2017 with Beny Steinmetz on charges of money laundering, then released. Silberstein had served as Gusenbauer's campaign advisor.\n\nThe French filmmaker Jean-Jacques Annaud is listed in the papers. As a result of the investigation, according to his lawyer, the filmmaker informed French tax authorities in the month preceding the release of the papers about his offshore holdings.\n\nMareva Grabowski is listed in the Paradise Papers. She is the wife of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is leader of the opposition and president of the New Democracy political party. She owns 50% of an offshore company, Eternia Capital Management in the Cayman Islands. This match is verified in Appleby and on listed in Cayman records on 30 March 2010.\n\nIn total, 2.829 Greek names are listed in the papers.\n\nU2 lead singer Bono is listed in the papers as an investor in a Lithuanian shopping centre via a Malta-based company.\n\nAntanas Guoga, a Member of the European Parliament, is named in the papers.\n\nAna Kolarević, sister of the former Montenegrin Prime Minister and President Milo Đukanović, who was in power from 1991 to 2016, is listed in the Paradise Papers.\n\nNenad Popovic, Serbian Minister for Innovation and Technology and owner of the Russian conglomerate ABS Electro has a residence in a wealthy Zürich suburb, known for its tax shelters. The residence application and tax returns were initiated by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which handles offshore companies owned by Popovic. Those entities were also implicated in money laundering and tax evasion accusations, explicitly mentioned in the Paradise Papers.\n\nIn Spain, the first political authority that appears is the former mayor of Barcelona and current councilor, Xavier Trias, artist José María Cano and billionaire Daniel Maté. Businessman Juan Villalonga, CEO of Telefónica 1996 to 2000, registered two companies in tax havens.\n\nQuantum Global Group, an investment bank owned by Jean-Claude Bastos de Morais, managed the Angolan wealth fund invested in seven investment funds in Mauritius and received an annual fee of 2 percent to 2.5 percent of capital under management per year.\n\nThe sons of Turkey's Prime Minister, Binali Yıldırım, are listed in the papers. The sons, both doing maritime business, have officially set up their 2 companies in Malta, in order to avoid high Turkish tax rates. Both of the companies are registered under the names of the two sons, with the older son Erkam Yıldırım having more shares than the younger son Bülent Yıldırım in both companies. Companies, named Hawke Bay Marine Co. Ltd.(founded in 2004) and Black Eagle Marine Co. Ltd.(founded in 2007) are seen as \"active\" in the available detailed data.\n\nThe papers show that the Duchy of Lancaster, a private estate of Queen Elizabeth II, held investments in two offshore financial centres, the Cayman Islands and Bermuda. Both are British Overseas Territories of which she is monarch, and nominally appoints governors. Britain handles foreign policy for both islands to a large extent, but Bermuda has been self-governing since 1620. The Duchy's investments included First Quench Retailing off-licences and rent-to-own retailer BrightHouse. Labour Party Leader Jeremy Corbyn posited whether the Queen should apologize, saying anyone with money offshore for tax avoidance should \"not just apologise for it, [but] recognise what it does to our society\". A spokesman for the Duchy said that all of their investments are audited and legitimate and that the Queen voluntarily pays taxes on income she receives from Duchy investments.\n\nThe papers also show that in June 2007, the Duchy of Cornwall, a possession of Prince Charles, invested $113,500 via in Sustainable Forestry Management, a Bermuda-based carbon credits trading company run by Hugh van Cutsem.\n\nFour weeks after the Duchy of Cornwall purchased shares in Sustainable Forestry Management, Prince Charles made a speech criticising the European Union Emission Trading Scheme and the Kyoto Protocol for excluding carbon credits from rainforests, and called for change.\n\nJames Meyer Sassoon, the 2007 president of the international Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering, said that his $236 million trust revealed in the papers had been established years before by his grandmother with funds that had not been earned in the UK and therefore were not subject to tax there. He said he had first disclosed the trust when he joined the Treasury in 2002, where he was Commercial Secretary from 2010 to 2013.\n\nAn article published by the ICIJ detailing the use of ambiguous VAT policies on the Isle of Man highlights the $27 million Bombardier Challenger 605 private jet that Lewis Hamilton registered there, apparently to become eligible for a $5.2 million VAT refund.\n\nThe BBC also noted questions about investments by Conservative Party donor Michael Ashcroft and Farhad Moshiri, owner of Everton Football Club.\n\nAppleby has taken legal action against \"The Guardian\" and the \"BBC\" and this is widely seen as an attack on press freedom. For example, Jeremy Corbyn stated, \"The Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers shone a powerful light on the absolute scandal of tax dodging. Knowledge is power and investigative reporters and whistleblowers bring into the open information that strengthens democratic debate about the type of society we want to live in. The more we know about the scale of, and techniques used for, tax dodging, the more we can develop policies to tackle this immoral scourge.\"\n\nUkrainian President Petro Poroshenko is named in the papers.\n<br>\nGennadiy Trukhanov, mayor of Odessa with Russian and Greece citizenships is named as part of a crime gang.\n\nJonathan Kolber, former CEO of Koor Industries and the beneficiary of the Kolber Trust and son of former Canadian senator Leo Kolber, who set the fund up in 1991, is named.\n\nDan Gertler, Israeli billionaire businessman in natural resources and the founder and President of the DGI (Dan Gertler International) Group of Companies appears in 120 documents regarding his relationship with Glencore.\n\nQueen Noor of Jordan is listed in the papers as the beneficiary of two trusts registered in Jersey. One of the trusts, the Valentine 1997 Trust, was valued at more than $40 million in 2015, and its income is to be paid to the queen during her lifetime. The trust also owns property in southern England adjacent to Buckhurst Park, Sussex. The other trust, the Brown Discretionary Settlement, is the beneficial owner of a Jersey-incorporated investment holding company with assets worth c. $18.7 million in 2015.\n\nPrince Khaled bin Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, a former deputy minister of defense for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, is given as the owner of at least eight companies in Bermuda between 1989 and 2014, some of them apparently formed for purposes of owning yachts and airplanes.\n\nRami Makhlouf, reportedly Syria's wealthiest man, is listed in the papers.\n\nThree former Canadian Prime Ministers are named in the Paradise Papers: Jean Chrétien, Paul Martin, and Brian Mulroney. According to the papers, Stephen Bronfman, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's adviser and close friend, a Liberal Party fundraiser credited with putting Trudeau into office, moved millions of dollars offshore for former Liberal Party Senator Leo Kolber. The offshore maneuvers may have avoided taxes in Canada, the United States and Israel, according to experts who reviewed some of the 3,000-plus files detailing the trust's activities.\n\nFormer president José María Figueres sat on the board of energy company Energia Global International, along with his brother and Timothy Phillips. The company was bought in 2001 by Enel SpA, an Italian power company, for $73 million, plus $37 million in debt cancellation. Figueres resigned from the board that year, at the annual EF meeting in Davos. He was also CEO of World Economic Forum from 2000 to 2004, and resigned as a result of allegations he called \"unfounded\" about $900,000 in consulting fees from a French telecommunications firm.\n\nAccording to the files, trade union leader and politician Joaquín Gamboa Pascoe had investments worth $15.5 million; other mentioned politicians are Pedro Aspe Armella, Alejandro Gertz Manero, and officials from PEMEX. High-profile Mexicans in the files include billionaire Carlos Slim, priest Marcial Maciel known as \"the greatest fundraiser of the modern Roman Catholic church\", and Ricardo Salinas Pliego. In an interview with \"Proceso\", Gertz Manero, formerly National Security Secretary, denied all knowledge of the company, of which he was vice-president, and which was started by his brother, its president.\n\nAccording to the papers, United States Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross holds stakes in businesses which deal with Russian oligarchs Leonid Mikhelson and Gennady Timchenko who are subject to U.S. sanctions, as well as Russian president Vladimir Putin's son-in-law, Kirill Shamalov. Other members of the Trump administration that appear in the documents include former United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and former director of the National Economic Council Gary D. Cohn. Offshore ties of more than a dozen Trump advisers, Cabinet members and major donors appear in the leaked data.\n\nTillerson, while CEO of Exxon Yemen, was a director of a company with a joint venture agreement with a Yemeni state-owned company. He sued when Yemen ended the joint venture and turned over operations to a Yemeni company, and lost. He was still a company director and the offshore company was still active as recently as 2015.\n\nThe documents also revealed that Russian state organizations with ties to Putin pursued between 2009 and 2011 large investments in Facebook and Twitter via an intermediary—Russian-American entrepreneur Yuri Milner, who befriended Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and was a business associate of Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump's son-in-law.\n\nAmerican singer Madonna, Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, American billionaire George Soros, founder of Open Society Foundations, and former NATO supreme commander in Europe General Wesley Clark are also named in the papers.\n\nThis list includes some of President Donald Trump's foremost donors, who together funneled nearly $60 million to organizations supporting his campaign and transition. They include casino magnate Sheldon Adelson; resort owner Steve Wynn; hedge fund managers Robert Mercer and Paul Singer; and private equity investors Tom Barrack, Stephen Schwarzman, and Carl Icahn.\n\nProminent Democratic donors also appear in the law firm's files. Questions have arisen about Democratic Party donor Penny Pritzker's compliance with federal ethics rules. She had pledged to divest from more than 200 firms when she was confirmed as President Barack Obama's commerce secretary in 2013, but records show that she transferred assets to a company owned by her children's trusts, which shared the same address as her office.\n\nEconomist Gabriel Zucman and his colleagues estimate that 63% of foreign profits made by American multinational corporations are stored in subsidiaries and offshore accounts, depriving the country of about $70 billion in tax revenue each year.\n\nArgentine Finance Minister Luis Caputo managed at least two offshore wealth funds. Neither firm, the Cayman Islands–based Alto Global Fund, nor its Miami-based parent company Noctua Partners LLC, were listed in Caputo's financial disclosure statement, a statement that all public officials and candidates for office are required to make. Caputo is a first cousin of local industrialist and construction tycoon Nicolás Caputo, best friend of Argentine President Mauricio Macri. He told Argentine members of the ICIJ team that \"it was an investment fund for friends and family.\" The funds, opened in 2009 and with over $100 million under management, remained under Caputo's management until December 2015, when Macri named him Finance Secretary, a post upgraded to Finance Minister this January.\n\nArgentine Energy Minister Juan José Aranguren managed two offshore companies, Shell Western Supply and Trading Limited and Sol Antilles y Guianas Limited, both subsidiaries of Royal Dutch Shell. One is the main bidder for the purchase of diesel oil by the current government through the state owned CAMMESA (Compañía Administradora del Mercado Mayorista Eléctrico).\n\nAccording to the papers, Argentine hotelier and real estate developer Alan Faena was director and CEO of half a dozen companies in the Cayman Islands and British Virgin Islands. Faena also appears with bank accounts in Luxembourg and the Isle of Man, linked to different hotels and real estate projects in Puerto Madero. In the offshore firms he was associated with different investors such as Soviet-born British-American businessman Leonard Blavatnik; American billionaire J. Christopher Burch and his brother Robert Burch; American business and media executive John Augustine Hearst; and French designer Philippe Starck.\n\nAgriculture Minister Blairo Borges Maggi is mentioned in the papers. His company, Amaggi and LD Commodities, was first registered about five months after Maggi ended a term as governor of Mato Grosso. Maggi told Brazilian outlet \"Poder360\" that he was not a direct beneficiary of the company and he had never received money from it.\n\nHenrique de Campos Meirelles, the current Brazilian Minister of Finance, told \"Poder360\" that he does not report income from his Sabedoria Foundation because it was set up to perform charitable functions after his death and therefore he receives no income from it.\n\nAlsacia-Express, which runs the debt-ridden public transit system of Santiago, holds assets in a Bermuda bank, according to the Appleby documents.\n\nPresident of Colombia (2010–2018) Juan Manuel Santos is mentioned in the investigation. He was part of two offshore societies.\n\nThe singer Shakira, while living in Barcelona, is a resident of the Bahamas and sends her authors' rights revenue to Malta.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the public reaction to the Paradise Papers has been relatively muted compared to similar leaks in the past, such as the Panama Papers. Possible reasons include the absence of overt illegality in the information; most media sources are careful to point out that the schemes in the Paradise Papers are generally lawful. A statement on behalf of Queen Elizabeth confirmed that the Royal Estate paid full UK tax on her offshore investments. Other public comments by notable popular public figures who appeared in the Papers may also play a part; Bono stated \"I've been assured by those running the company that it is fully tax compliant, but if that is not the case, I want to know as much as the tax office does, and so I also welcome the audit they have said they will undertake.\" Jack Peat has suggested that much of the media has ignored the story of the Paradise Papers because those media organisations are owned by individuals implicated in the papers, such as \"Daily Telegraph\" owners David and Frederick Barclay, \"Daily Mail\" owner Jonathan Harmsworth, and \"The Sun\" and \"The Times\" owner Rupert Murdoch.\n\nAfter the leak, more than 30 Members of the European Parliament issued an open letter criticizing the British government for failing to take action against the offshore tax industry.\n\nGavin St Pier, an elected Deputy of the tax haven Guernsey, stated that the \"coverage was part of a well-orchestrated, ongoing campaign\". He also averred that despite having the information since 2016, the timing of the release was deliberately delayed to coincide with the meeting of EU Finance Ministers ahead of the proposed discussion of a tax haven blacklist.\n\nCommenting on the Paradise Papers leak, United States Senator and 2016 presidential candidate Bernie Sanders warned of \"rapid movement toward international oligarchy\", saying, \"The Paradise Papers shows how these billionaires and multinational corporations get richer by hiding their wealth and profits and avoid paying their fair share of taxes.\" The Democratic leader in the US Senate, Chuck Schumer, and the ranking Democratic member of the Senate finance committee, Ron Wyden, issued a joint statement accusing Republicans of \"pushing a reform of the tax code that fails to close egregious loopholes revealed by the leaks.\"\n\nOn 18 December 2017 it was reported that Appleby had issued legal proceedings against the BBC and \"The Guardian\" for breach of confidence. The BBC and \"The Guardian\" said they would \"vigorously\" defend the action.\n\nAppleby released a media statement to explain the necessity to seek legal action, and provided subsequent update. \"The Guardian\" and the BBC settled the dispute with Appleby in May 2018.\n\nIn October 2018, Swiss-based multinational Glencore lodged a writ with the Australian High Court to prevent the use of Paradise Papers documents by the Australian Taxation Office in any legal action against the miner. Glencore asserted that the documents in question are subject to legal professional privilege. Glencore’s writ has four plaintiffs: Glencore International AG (an intermediate holding company resident in Switzerland), Glencore Investment Pty Ltd (a company incorporated in Australia), Glencore Australia Holdings Pty Ltd (a company incorporated in Australia) and Glencore Investment Holdings Australia Ltd (a company incorporated in Bermuda).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41705100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41705100", "title": "Password Hashing Competition", "text": "Password Hashing Competition\n\nThe Password Hashing Competition was an open competition announced in 2013 to select one or more password hash functions that can be recognized as a recommended standard. It was modeled after the successful Advanced Encryption Standard process and NIST hash function competition, but directly organized by cryptographers and security practitioners. On 20 July 2015, Argon2 was selected as the final PHC winner, with special recognition given to four other password hashing schemes: Catena, Lyra2, yescrypt and Makwa.\n\nOne goal of the Password Hashing Competition was to raise awareness of the need for strong password hash algorithms, hopefully avoiding a repeat of previous password breaches involving weak or no hashing, such as the ones involving\nRockYou (2009),\nJIRA,\nGawker (2010),\nPlayStation Network outage,\nBattlefield Heroes (2011),\neHarmony,\nLinkedIn,\nAdobe,\nASUS,\nSouth Carolina Department of Revenue (2012),\nEvernote,\nUbuntu Forums (2013),\netc.\n\nThe organizers were in contact with the NIST, expecting an impact on its recommendations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14349542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14349542", "title": "Quality Reform", "text": "Quality Reform\n\nThe Quality Reform was a reform initialized by the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research after recommendation from the \"Mjøs committee\" (1998–2000). It was introduced in 2002–03 and changed the entire system of higher education in Norway to comply with the Bologna process. This process is intended to take place throughout Europe to better integrate the higher educations systems, and Norway is among the first to implement this process. The Norwegian approach was a quick and brutal removal of the old system and replacement to the new instantly.\n\nThe main changes included a switch from the old system of Latin degrees to the international Bachelor, Master and Philosophiae Doctor degrees. This replaced the former system of three and a half or four year cand.mag. degrees followed by one and a half or two year \"hovedfag\" degrees. The system abolished many old master-level degree titles, including cand.scient. (sciences), cand.polit. (social sciences), cand.philol. (humanities), cand.oecon. (economics), cand.agro. (agronomy), cand.jur. (law), cand.theol. (theology), \"sivilingeniør\" (engineering) and \"siviløkonom\" (management). The length varied, and depended on the area of study, ranging from four to six years. The cand.psychol. (clinical psychology), cand.med. (medicine) and cand.med.vet. titles have been retained as six-year studies in clinical psychology, medicine and veterinary medicine. All master-level titles are now awarded as Master of Science, Master of Technology or Master of Philosophy, all taking five years.\n\nOther changed included replacing the former number scale (from 1.0 to 4.0) grades to A to F letter scale, reducing the number of passing grades from 41 to five. It also changed the former system credits of \"vekttall\" (with nominal 10 \"vekttall\" per semester) to the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) with nominal 30 credits per semester. The reform set new requirements to the follow-up on students, forcing universities and colleges to spend more resources per credit, specially on demands related to assignments.\n"}
{"id": "42523254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42523254", "title": "Ralph R. Teetor Educational Award", "text": "Ralph R. Teetor Educational Award\n\nEstablished in 1963, the Ralph R. Teetor Educational Award recognizes and honors those young educators who are successfully preparing engineers for meeting the challenges that face society. Reflecting the firm belief of its donor that engineering educators are the most effective link between engineering students and their future careers, the SAE Ralph Teetor Educational Fund's major program is focused on younger engineering educators.\n"}
{"id": "4936198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4936198", "title": "Richard E. Mayer", "text": "Richard E. Mayer\n\nRichard E. Mayer (born 1947) is an American educational psychologist who has made significant contributions to theories of cognition and learning, especially as they relate to problem solving and the design of educational multimedia. Mayer's best known contribution to the field of educational psychology is multimedia learning theory, which posits that optimal learning occurs when visual and verbal materials are presented together simultaneously. He is the year 2000 recipient of the E. L. Thorndike Award for career achievement in educational psychology, and the winner of 2008 Distinguished Contribution of Applications of Psychology to Education and Training Award from the American Psychological Association. He was ranked #1 as the most productive educational psychologist in the world for 1997-2001. He is the author of more than 390 publications including 23 books on education and multimedia. He received a PhD in psychology from the University of Michigan (1973), and served as a Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology at Indiana University from 1973-1975. Mayer is Professor of Psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) where he has served since 1975.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172828", "title": "Scientific citation", "text": "Scientific citation\n\nScientific citation is providing detailed reference in a scientific publication, typically a paper or book, to previous published (or occasionally private) communications which have a bearing on the subject of the new publication. The purpose of citations in original work is to allow readers of the paper to refer to cited work to assist them in judging the new work, source background information vital for future development, and acknowledge the contributions of earlier workers. Citations in, say, a review paper bring together many sources, often recent, in one place.\n\nTo a considerable extent the quality of work, in the absence of other criteria, is judged on the number of citations received, adjusting for the volume of work in the relevant topic. While this is not necessarily a reliable measure, counting citations is trivially easy; judging the merit of complex work can be very difficult.\n\nPrevious work may be cited regarding experimental procedures, apparatus, goals, previous theoretical results upon which the new work builds, theses, and so on. Typically such citations establish the general framework of influences and the mindset of research, and especially as \"part of what science\" it is, and to help determine who conducts the peer review.\n\nDisciplined citation of prior works in mathematics and science is known at least as far back as Euclid. Late in the first millennium, Islamic scholars developed their practice of isnad, or \"backing\", which established the validity of sayings of Muhammad in the hadith. The Asharite school of early Muslim philosophy extended this into fiqh or jurisprudence, while the Mutazilite school used the traditional methods and applied them to science.\n\nIn some form, then, achieving authority for new work by citing accepted authorities is a near-universal idea among the peoples of the Mediterranean, whose educated people were exposed to one or other of these practices well before the European Renaissance and the emergence of the formal scientific method.\n\nIn patent law the citation of previous works, or prior art, helps establish the uniqueness of the invention being described. The focus in this practice is to claim originality for commercial purposes, and so the author is motivated to avoid citing works that cast doubt on its originality. Thus this does not appear to be \"scientific\" citation. Inventors and lawyers have a legal obligation to cite all relevant art; not to do so risks invalidating the patent. The patent examiner is obliged to list all further prior art found in searches.\n\nModern scientists are sometimes judged by the number of times their work is cited by others—this is actually a key indicator of the relative importance of a work in science. Accordingly, individual scientists are motivated to have their own work cited early and often and as widely as possible, but all other scientists are motivated to eliminate unnecessary citations so as not to devalue this means of judgment. A formal citation index tracks which referred and reviewed papers have referred which other such papers. Baruch Lev and other advocates of accounting reform consider the number of times a patent is cited to be a significant metric of its quality, and thus of innovation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18571062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18571062", "title": "Secular Homeschooling", "text": "Secular Homeschooling\n\nSecular Homeschooling was an American magazine for people who homeschool for reasons other than religion. It began as a quarterly, but became a bimonthly in July 2009. The magazine is no longer published and the final issue was released in 2011.\n\nBecause the magazine was written (and, presumably read) by people who consider religious belief a personal matter rather than a prerequisite of homeschooling, it might be seen as reflecting the diversity of the homeschooling community.\n\nAs a specifically non-religious magazine, \"Secular Homeschooling\" discussed some topics differently from other homeschooling magazines. For example, one article discussed the particular difficulties of discussing and dealing with death for the non religious. In the article \"The Most Difficult Subject\", the author writes that death is, to religious families \"less threatening as a concept, it’s also much more frequent and natural a subject of conversation and thought\" because some of their religious beliefs focus on death (Jesus' death and resurrection, for example).\n\nThe magazine occasionally ran humor as well. One piece, \"The Bitter Homeschooler's Wish List\" – \"a wish list from one homeschooler to other parents who ask annoying and inappropriate questions about the decision to homeschool\" – has been described as a \"legendary Internet screed\". The list bitterly points out that not all homeschoolers are religious or homeschool for religious reasons, and that homeschoolers of all types tire of being criticized.\n\n"}
{"id": "22103875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22103875", "title": "Senior Secondary Certificate of Education", "text": "Senior Secondary Certificate of Education\n\nThe Senior Secondary Certificate of Education (SSCE) is the graduation certificate awarded to most students in Australian high schools, and is equivalent to the Advance Placement in North America and the GCE A-Levels of the United Kingdom. Students completing the SSCE are usually aged 16 to 18 and study full-time for two years (years 11 and 12 of schooling). In some states adults may gain the certificate through a Technical and Further Education college or other provider.\n\nThe curriculum, assessment and name of the SSCE is different in each state and territory. The government of each determines these themselves, although the curriculum must address mutually agreed national competencies.\n\nUniversities Australia generates a nationally standardised final score for each SSCE exam student called the Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR). Universities and other Higher Education providers typically use this mark as the main criterion in selecting domestic students. Most States and Territories in Australia uses the ATAR system with the exemption of Queensland. Queensland has its own ranking system called Overall Position (OP).\n"}
{"id": "43788676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43788676", "title": "The Stanford Prison Experiment (film)", "text": "The Stanford Prison Experiment (film)\n\nThe Stanford Prison Experiment is a 2015 American thriller film directed by Kyle Patrick Alvarez, written by Tim Talbott, and starring Billy Crudup, Michael Angarano, Ezra Miller, Tye Sheridan, Keir Gilchrist, Olivia Thirlby, and Nelsan Ellis. The plot concerns the 1971 Stanford prison experiment, conducted at Stanford University under the supervision of psychology professor Philip Zimbardo, in which students play the role of either a prisoner or prison guard.\n\nThe project was announced in 2002 and remained in development for twelve years, with filming beginning on August 19, 2014, in Los Angeles. The film was financed and produced by Sandbar Pictures and Abandon Pictures, and premiered at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival on January 26, before beginning a limited theatrical release on July 17, 2015. The film received mostly positive reviews from critics.\n\nStanford University psychology professor Philip Zimbardo conducts a psychological experiment to test the hypothesis that the personality traits of prisoners and guards are the chief cause of abusive behavior between them. In the experiment, Zimbardo selects fifteen male students to participate in a 14-day prison simulation to take roles as prisoners or guards. They receive $15 per day. The experiment is conducted in a mock prison located in the basement of Jordan Hall, the university's psychology department building. The students who are guards become abusive, as does Zimbardo himself, as they immerse themselves in their assigned roles. Two students who play the role of prisoners quit the experiment early due to psychological meltdowns, and, only after being chastised and roughly brought back to reality by his girlfriend, Christina Maslach, Zimbardo abruptly stops the entire experiment after only six days.\n\n\nA film about the Stanford prison experiment was first announced in 2002, when producer Brent Emery signed Tim Talbott to write the script for the film. Problems beset and delayed the project for twelve years, including financing and the 2007 writers' strike. In 2006, two competing films about the experiment were in development, one at Maverick Films and the other Inferno's \"The Experiment\". Maverick Films, having an ownership break up in August 2008, continued on as Imprint Entertainment. Imprint was expected to start filming in January 2009 under producer Christopher McQuarrie.\n\nOn August 19, 2014, Sandbar Pictures and Abandon Pictures came on board to finance the film. Kyle Patrick Alvarez was set to direct, and producers were Brent Emery, Lizzie Friedman, Greg Little, Lauren Bratman and Brian Geraghty.\n\nOn August 19, 2014, it was announced that Billy Crudup, Ezra Miller and Michael Angarano would play lead roles. On August 26, Jack Kilmer joined the cast to play Jim, one of the student prisoners whose personality makes him a perfect subject to comply. On August 28, Nicholas Braun joined the film to play Vandy, an abusive and sadistic guard. On September 4, Brett Davern was added to the cast, playing Hubbie Whitlow, an affable young participant whose failed escape attempt leads to grueling humiliation at the hands of sadistic guards. On September 9, Jesse Carere joined the cast to play Paul, Prisoner 5704, a gangly man who counts smoking as his only vice. On October 10, more of the ensemble cast was announced, including Olivia Thirlby as Christina Maslach, professor Zimbardo's future wife and fellow academic, Nelsan Ellis as Jesse Fletcher, Tye Sheridan as prisoner Peter Mitchell, James Frecheville as guard Townshend, Johnny Simmons as prisoner Jeff Jansen, and Ki Hong Lee as prisoner Gavin Chan.\n\nPrincipal photography began on August 19, 2014, in Los Angeles, and lasted 21 days.\n\nThe film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 26, 2015. By coincidence, \"Experimenter\", a film about another notorious psychological experiment, the Milgram experiment, had premiered at Sundance the day before.\n\nIFC Films acquired the US rights to the film on March 5, 2015. The film was theatrically released on July 17, 2015, by IFC Films, and on Blu-Ray and iTunes on November 17, 2015.\n\nUpon its premiere at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival, \"The Stanford Prison Experiment\" received a positive response from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a \"certified fresh\" rating of 83%, based on reviews from 90 critics, with an average score of 6.9/10. The site's consensus states: \"As chillingly thought-provoking as it is absorbing and well-acted, \"The Stanford Prison Experiment\" offers historical drama that packs a timelessly relevant punch.\" On the review site Metacritic, the film has a score of 67 out of 100, based on 26 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nLeslie Felperin of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave the film a positive review, writing \"For all its flaws it's a rich, thought-provoking film which, while challenging, is not without humor and visual pleasures.\" Kyle Smith of the \"New York Post\" felt that \"Tim Talbott's dense script provides much to discuss and argue about, providing both left and right with talking points.\" Jordan Hoffman of \"The Guardian\" gave the film four out of five stars and judged that \"Director Kyle Patrick Alvarez deserves all the praise in the world for the way he cranks up this pressure cooker script.\" Edward Douglas in his review for ComingSoon praised the film, remarking \"While this is going to be a polarizing and divisive film, it's one that people will talk about after seeing it, almost as if it was made as an experiment itself.\"\n\nHowever, Justin Chang of \"Variety\" criticized the film, saying \"The combination of relentless forward drive and gruesomely fastidious detail, while audacious and admirable in theory, begins to pay dwindling returns in a picture that feels rather longer than its 122-minute running time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16990303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16990303", "title": "Thomas A. Scott Fellowship in Hygiene", "text": "Thomas A. Scott Fellowship in Hygiene\n\nThe Thomas A. Scott Fellowship in Hygiene was a competitive academic grant made at the University of Pennsylvania for the study of scientific hygiene and sanitary science, the precursors of the modern science of pathology. It was established in 1892 in the name of late railroad executive and financier Thomas Alexander Scott by his widow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14578266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14578266", "title": "Tutor expertise in adult education", "text": "Tutor expertise in adult education\n\nTutor expertise in adult education, through the use of content and process experts, is important in the successful delivery of adult education. Each has a specific role and a particular set of attributes which they bring to the classroom. Content experts are those who are well acquainted with the subject. Either through years of practical experience or involvement with research, these individuals fully understand the topic they are discussing. On the other hand, the process expert is trained in the art of teaching. These individuals have a working knowledge of the subject for discussion but they will also have a concrete knowledge of facilitation and how to direct the student to assess their knowledge gaps and seek out answers on their own. Tutors may be totally content focused, totally process focused or some combination of the two, bringing with them prior personal and professional experience.\n\nThe work of Malcolm Knowles discusses which type of tutor is better suited to address the needs of adult learners. Knowles work assumes basic concepts about adult learners:\n\nGerald Grow developed the Staged Self Directed Learning Model (SSDLM) as a tool to assist teachers to help learners work toward more self-directed learning. Phillip Candy also studied ways to assist learners to be self-directed. Process experts would be guided by these educational theorists.\n\nResearch on the topic of content expertise has been done in the field of medical education. Traditionally, medical education was delivered in large lecture format by content experts. In the 1960s, Problem-based learning was first introduced at McMaster University in Ontario, Canada. Problem-based learning involves small groups working within a tutorial system. Students are encouraged to brainstorm within the group and generate questions based on the scenario they are working on. Problem-based learning fosters self-directed learning, with the teacher taking on a new role as a facilitator, using their expertise only subtly and sparingly. This style of learning is built on collaborative learning work theory. Students with a common interest are encouraged to reflect, share their thoughts with their peers and develop analytical thinking and communication skills during the process. The break from the true collaborative approach is in having an authority figure present.\n\nSupporters of the truly collaborative approach feel that there is no need for that authority to be a content expert. However, studies conducted at several medical schools across Canada, the USA and Europe dispute this idea. For example, in an analysis of student performance following small group experiences with experts and non expert tutors, students at the University of Michigan Medical School rated their experiences with content experts significantly higher than those led by non-experts. They felt that even though an expert tutor may ask the same questions as a non-expert tutor, that the expert was more inclined to ask the questions at the most opportune time and was better able to reframe the question in a way that was more valuable to the students. Ultimately, the students who were assigned to the groups led by content experts scored significantly higher on their final exam. In another study, conducted at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Canada, it was determined that expert tutors use their knowledge to ask more effective questions and are better equipped to keep the groups from floundering. This raises the question of whether a process expert can adequately assess student progress and determine when intervention is optimal and beneficial.\n\nWhile ongoing debate and research on this topic continues, several common threads have evolved and opinions on the effectiveness of this approach include: \nGiven these determinants, one dares to ask if the issue is actually content expertise versus process expertise or rather what is the minimum requirement of each component which would produce the most effective tutor? \n"}
{"id": "9003895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9003895", "title": "University of Economics in Bratislava", "text": "University of Economics in Bratislava\n\nUniversity of Economics in Bratislava () is the oldest university of economics in Slovakia.\n\nThe university was established in 1940 as a private university under the name \nVysoká obchodná škola v Bratislave (College of Commerce in Bratislava), because of the situation in German-occupied Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia where college and universities were closed down, where also many Slovak students were studying. It was nationalized in 1945 and renamed to \"Slovenská vysoká škola obchodná\" (Slovak College of Commerce). It was renamed again in 1949 to \"Vysoká škola hospodárskych vied\" (College of Business / Economic Sciences) and once again in 1952 to \"Vysoká škola ekonomická\" (College of Economics). The current name is used since 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "33807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33807", "title": "Walter Gropius", "text": "Walter Gropius\n\nWalter Adolph Georg Gropius (18 May 1883 – 5 July 1969) was a German architect and founder of the Bauhaus School, who, along with Alvar Aalto, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Le Corbusier and Frank Lloyd Wright, is widely regarded as one of the pioneering masters of modernist architecture. Gropius was also a leading architect of the International Style.\n\nBorn in Berlin, Walter Gropius was the third child of Walter Adolph Gropius and Manon Auguste Pauline Scharnweber (1855–1933), daughter of the Prussian politician Georg Schwarnweber (1816-1894). Walter's uncle Martin Gropius (1824-1880) was the architect of the Kunstgewerbemuseum in Berlin and a follower of Karl Friedrich Schinkel, with whom Walter's great-grandfather Carl Gropius, who fought under Field Marshal Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher at the Battle of Waterloo, had shared a flat as a bachelor.\n\nIn 1915 Gropius married Alma Mahler (1879–1964), widow of Gustav Mahler. Walter and Alma's daughter, named Manon after Walter's mother, was born in 1916. When Manon died of polio at age 18, in 1935, composer Alban Berg wrote his Violin Concerto in memory of her (it is inscribed \"to the memory of an angel\"). Gropius and Alma divorced in 1920. (Alma had by that time established a relationship with Franz Werfel, whom she later married.) On 16 October 1923, Gropius married Ilse (later changed to Ise) Frank, and they remained together until his death in 1969. They adopted a daughter together, Beate Gropius, known as Ati. Ise Gropius died on 9 June 1983 in Lexington, Massachusetts.\nWalter's only sister Manon Burchard, née Gropius, is the great-grandmother of the German film and theater actresses Marie Burchard and Bettina Burchard and of the curator and art historian Wolf Burchard.\n\nGropius could not draw, and was dependent on collaborators and partner-interpreters throughout his career. In school he hired an assistant to complete his homework for him. In 1908, after studying architecture in Munich and Berlin for four semesters, Gropius joined the office of the renowned architect and industrial designer Peter Behrens, one of the first members of the utilitarian school. His fellow employees at this time included Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Le Corbusier, and Dietrich Marcks.\n\nIn 1910 Gropius left the firm of Behrens and together with fellow employee Adolf Meyer established a practice in Berlin. Together they share credit for one of the seminal modernist buildings created during this period: the Faguswerk in Alfeld-an-der-Leine, Germany, a shoe last factory. Although Gropius and Meyer only designed the facade, the glass curtain walls of this building demonstrated both the modernist principle that form reflects function and Gropius's concern with providing healthful conditions for the working class. The factory is now regarded as one of the crucial founding monuments of European modernism. Gropius was commissioned in 1913 to design a car for the Prussian Railroad Locomotive Works in Königsberg. This locomotive was unique and the first of its kind in Germany and perhaps in Europe.\nOther works of this early period include the office and factory building for the Werkbund Exhibition (1914) in Cologne.\n\nIn 1913, Gropius published an article about \"The Development of Industrial Buildings,\" which included about a dozen photographs of factories and grain elevators in North America. A very influential text, this article had a strong influence on other European modernists, including Le Corbusier and Erich Mendelsohn, both of whom reprinted Gropius's grain elevator pictures between 1920 and 1930.\n\nGropius's career was interrupted by the outbreak of World War I in 1914. He was drafted August 1914 and served as a sergeant major at the Western front during the war years (getting wounded and almost killed) and then as a lieutenant in the signal corps. Gropius was awarded he Iron Cross twice<ref name=\"http://www.architectural-review.com\">Paul Davies (30 April 2013) \"Walter Gropius\". architectural-review.com.</ref> (\"when it still meant something,\" he confided to his friend Chester Nagel) after fighting for four years. Gropius then, like his father and his great-uncle Martin Gropius before him, became an architect.\n\nGropius's career advanced in the postwar period. Henry van de Velde, the master of the Grand-Ducal Saxon School of Arts and Crafts in Weimar was asked to step down in 1915 due to his Belgian nationality. His recommendation for Gropius to succeed him led eventually to Gropius's appointment as master of the school in 1919. It was this academy which Gropius transformed into the world-famous Bauhaus, attracting a faculty that included Paul Klee, Johannes Itten, Josef Albers, Herbert Bayer, László Moholy-Nagy, Otto Bartning and Wassily Kandinsky. In principle, the Bauhaus represented an opportunity to extend beauty and quality to every home through well designed industrially produced objects. The Bauhaus program was experimental and the emphasis was theoretical. One example product of the Bauhaus was the armchair F 51, designed for the Bauhaus's directors room in 1920 – nowadays a re-edition in the market, manufactured by the German company TECTA/Lauenfoerde.\n\nIn 1919, Gropius was involved in the Glass Chain utopian expressionist correspondence under the pseudonym \"Mass.\" Usually more notable for his functionalist approach, the \"Monument to the March Dead,\" designed in 1919 and executed in 1920, indicates that expressionism was an influence on him at that time.\n\nIn 1923, Gropius designed his famous door handles, now considered an icon of 20th-century design and often listed as one of the most influential designs to emerge from Bauhaus. Walter Gropius designed the newly constructed school building in 1925 on behalf of the city of Dessau. Gropius collaborated with Carl Fieger, Ernst Neufert and others within his private architectural practice. He also designed large-scale housing projects in Berlin, Karlsruhe and Dessau in 1926–32 that were major contributions to the New Objectivity movement, including a contribution to the Siemensstadt project in Berlin.\n\nGropius left the Bauhaus in 1928 and moved to Berlin. Hannes Meyer took over the role of Bauhaus director.\n\nThe rise of Hitler in the 1930s would soon drive Gropius out of Germany. Before that, however, he did accept an invitation in early 1933 to compete for the design of the new Reichsbank building and submitted a detailed plan.\n\nWith the help of the English architect Maxwell Fry, Gropius was able to leave Nazi Germany in 1934, on the pretext of making a temporary visit to Italy for a film propaganda festival; he then fled to Britain to avoid the fascist powers of Europe. He lived and worked in the artists' community associated with Herbert Read in Hampstead, London, as part of the Isokon group with Fry and others for three years, before moving on to the United States with his family. Gropius and his second wife, Ise Gropius, arrived in the United States in February 1937, while their twelve-year-old daughter, Ati, finished the school year in England. Though built in 1938, the Gropiuses believed their house could embody architectural qualities similar to those practiced today, such as simplicity, economy, and aesthetic beauty. In designing his house, Gropius used the approach developed at the Bauhaus. The house the Gropiuses built for themselves in Lincoln, Massachusetts (now known as Gropius House), was influential in bringing International Modernism to the U.S., but Gropius disliked the term: \"I made it a point to absorb into my own conception those features of the New England architectural tradition that I found still alive and adequate.\" Helen Storrow, a banker's wife and philanthropist, became Gropius's benefactor when she invested a portion of her land and wealth for the architect's home. She was so satisfied with the result that she gave more land and financial support to four other professors, two of whom Gropius designed homes for. With the Bauhaus philosophy in mind, every aspect of the homes and their surrounding landscapes was planned for maximum efficiency and simplicity. Gropius's house received a huge response and was declared a National Landmark in 2000.\nGropius and his Bauhaus protégé Marcel Breuer both moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts, to teach at the Harvard Graduate School of Design (1937–1952) and collaborate on projects including The Alan I W Frank House in Pittsburgh and the company-town Aluminum City Terrace project in New Kensington, Pennsylvania, before their professional split. In 1938 he was appointed Chair of the Department of Architecture, a post he held until his retirement in 1952.<ref name=\"http://www.britannica.com\">\"Walter Gropius\". Encyclopædia Britannica.</ref> Gropius also sat on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Visiting Committee at the end of his career. The well-known architect designed the Richards and Child residence halls on the Harvard campus that were built in the 1950s. In 1944, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States.\n\nIn 1946, Gropius founded the young architects' association, The Architects' Collaborative (TAC), a manifestation of his lifelong belief in the significance of teamwork, which he had already successfully introduced at the Bauhaus. Based in Cambridge with a group of younger architects, which the original partners included Norman C. Fletcher, Jean B. Fletcher, John C. Harkness, Sarah P. Harkness, Robert S. MacMillan, Louis A. MacMillen, and Benjamin C. Thompson. One work produced by this office is the Graduate Center of Harvard University in Cambridge (1949/50).<ref name=\"http://bauhaus-online.de\">\"Walter Gropius\" . bauhaus-online.de.</ref> TAC would become one of the most well-known and respected architectural firms in the world. TAC went bankrupt in 1995.\n\nIn 1967, Gropius was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate member and became a full Academician in 1968.\n\nGropius died on July 6, 1969, in Boston, Massachusetts, aged 86. Walter Gropius was diagnosed with an illness that consisted of an inflammation of the glands, and was admitted to the hospital on 7 June. After a necessary operation performed on 15 June ended successfully there was hope of a full recovery. Gropius described himself as a \"tough old bird\" and continued to make progress for about a week. His lungs became congested and could not supply proper amounts of oxygen to the blood and brain and he lost consciousness and died in his sleep early Sunday morning.\n\nToday, Gropius is remembered not only by his various buildings but also by the district of Gropiusstadt in Berlin. In the early 1990s, a series of books entitled The Walter Gropius Archive was published covering his entire architectural career. The CD audiobook \"Bauhaus Reviewed 1919–33\" includes a lengthy English Language interview with Gropius.\n\nUpon his death his widow, Ise Gropius, arranged to have his collection of papers divided into early and late papers. Both parts were photographed with funds provided by the Thyssen Foundation. The late papers, relating to Gropius's career after 1937, and the photos of the early ones, then went to the Houghton Library at Harvard University; the early papers and photos of the late papers went to the Bauhaus Archiv, then in Darmstadt, since reestablished in Berlin. Mrs. Gropius also deeded the Gropius House in Lincoln to Historic New England in 1980. The Gropius house was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1988 and is now available to the public for tours.\n\nBauhaus Center Tel Aviv in the White City recognizes the greatest concentration of Bauhaus buildings in the world.\n\nIn 1959 he received the AIA Gold Medal.\n\n\nThe building in Niederkirchnerstraße, Berlin, known as the Gropius-Haus is named for Gropius's great-uncle, Martin Gropius, and is not associated with Bauhaus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1093601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1093601", "title": "Wardell Pomeroy", "text": "Wardell Pomeroy\n\nWardell Baxter Pomeroy (December 6, 1913 – September 6, 2001) was an American sexologist and co-author with Alfred C. Kinsey.\n\nPomeroy was born in Kalamazoo, Michigan. He graduated from Indiana University (BA, 1935; MA, 1942) and earned a Ph.D. in psychology in 1954 from Columbia University. While working as a psychologist in an Indiana state hospital, he met Kinsey and came to work on his seminal sex-research project. Pomeroy personally recorded approximately 6,000 sexual histories. He was co-author with Kinsey on the landmark books \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\" (1948) and \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\" (1953). He went into the private practice of sex therapy in New York City in 1963 and wrote books about adolescent sexuality for popular consumption. In 1976, he became dean of the Institute for the Advanced Study of Human Sexuality and an adjunct professor at California Medical School and California State University at Northridge. Pomeroy retired due to declining health in 1983 and died in Bloomington, Indiana of Lewy body dementia.\n\nPomeroy was portrayed in the 2004 theatrical film \"Kinsey\" by Chris O'Donnell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32627794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32627794", "title": "Western Upper Nile University", "text": "Western Upper Nile University\n\nWestern Upper Nile University is a proposed university in South Sudan.\n\nThe public university, when established, will maintain its main campus in the town of Bentiu, in \"Rubkona County\", Unity State, in northern South Sudan, close to the International border with the Republic of Sudan.\n\nWhen established, the university will be the seventh (7th) public university in South Sudan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9122673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9122673", "title": "William Ward (missionary)", "text": "William Ward (missionary)\n\nWilliam Ward (1769–1823) was an English pioneer Baptist missionary, author, printer and translator. On 10 May 1802 he was married at Serampore to the widow of John Fountain, another missionary, by whom he left two daughters.\n\nWard was born at Derby on 20 October 1769, and was the son of John Ward, a carpenter and builder of that town, and grandson of Thomas Ward, a farmer at Stretton, near Burton in Staffordshire. His father died while he was a child, and the care of his upbringing fell to his mother. He was placed with a schoolmaster named Mr Congreve, near Derby, and afterwards with another named Mr Breary.\n\nOn leaving school he was apprenticed to a Derby printer and bookseller Mr Drewry, with whom he continued two years after the expiry of his indentures, assisting him to edit the Derby Mercury. He then removed to Stafford, where he assisted Joshua Drewry, a relative of his former master, to edit the Staffordshire Advertiser and in either 1794 or 1795 proceeded to Hull, where he followed his business as a printer, and was for some time editor of the Hull Advertiser.\n\nWard early in life became an Anabaptist, and on 26 August 1796 he was baptised at Hull. Preaching constantly in the neighbouring villages, he became known as a man of promise, and, with the assistance of a member of the baptist community named Mr Fishwick, he proceeded in August 1797 to Ewood Hall, near Halifax in Yorkshire, the theological academy of John Fawcett (1740–1817), where he studied for a year and a half.\n\nIn the autumn of 1798, the baptist mission committee visited Ewood, and Ward offered himself as a missionary, influenced perhaps by a remark made to him in 1793 by William Carey concerning the need for a printer in the Indian mission field.\n\nWard sailed from England in the Criterion in May 1799, in company with Joshua Marshman. On arriving at Calcutta he was prevented from joining Carey by an order from the Government, and was thereby obliged to proceed to the Danish settlement of Serampore, where he was then joined by Carey.\n\nIn India, Ward's time was chiefly occupied in overseeing the community's printing press, which was used to disseminate the scriptures, once they had been translated into Bengáli, Mahratta, Tamil, and twenty-three other languages. Numerous philological works were also issued and Ward still found time to both keep a copious diary and to preach the gospel to the natives.\n\nUntil 1806, he made frequent tours amongst the towns and villages of the province, but after that year the increasing claims of the press on his time, and the extension of the missionary labours in Serampore and Calcutta, prevented him quitting headquarters. In 1812 the printing office was destroyed by fire. It contained the types of all the scriptures that had been printed, to the value of at least ten thousand pounds. The moulds for casting fresh type, however, were recovered from the débris, and with the help of friends in Great Britain the loss was soon repaired.\n\nIn 1818, Ward, having been for some time in bad health, revisited England. Here he was entrusted with the task of pleading for funds with which to endow a new college at Serampore which he had founded along with Joshua Marshman & William Carey, for the purpose of instructing natives in European literature and science.\n\nHe undertook a series of journeys throughout England and Scotland, and also visited Holland and North Germany. In October 1820 he embarked for New York, and travelled through the United States, returning to England in April 1821. On 28 May he sailed for India in the Alberta, carrying funds for Serampore College; as a result, Ward, Marshman & Carey became known as the Serampore trio.\n\nWard died of cholera at Serampore on 7 March 1823, and was interred in the mission burial-ground.\n\nBesides his sermons, Ward was also the author of:\n\n\nHe was also the author of several sonnets and short poems which were printed as an appendix to a memoir of him by Samuel Stennett. A portrait, engraved by R. Baker from a painting by Overton, is prefixed to the same work.\n\n"}
