{"id": "21806594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21806594", "title": "A. Richard Caputo", "text": "A. Richard Caputo\n\nA. Richard Caputo (born 1938) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.\n\nBorn in Port Chester, New York, Caputo received an Artium Baccalaureus degree from Brown University in 1960 and an Bachelor of Laws from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1963. He was in private practice in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania from 1963 to 1964, and in the United States Air Force JAG Corps from 1964 to 1967. He was an assistant public defender in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania in 1968, returning to private practice in Kingston, Pennsylvania from 1968 to 1997.\n\nOn July 31, 1997, Caputo was nominated by President Bill Clinton to a seat on the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania vacated by Richard Paul Conaboy. Caputo was confirmed by the United States Senate on November 9, 1997, and received his commission on November 12, 1997. He assumed senior status on March 31, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "16867019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16867019", "title": "Anna Adams Gordon", "text": "Anna Adams Gordon\n\nAnna Adams Gordon (July 21, 1853 – June 15, 1931) was an American social reformer, songwriter, and, as national president of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union when the Eighteenth Amendment was adopted, a major figure in the Temperance movement.\n\nGordon was born in Boston, Massachusetts, to James M. and Mary Clarkson Gordon, both Christian abolitionists. When she was three, her family moved to Auburndale. She went on to attend Boston High School, Lasall Seminary, and Mount Holyoke College. She spent a year abroad in San Sebastián with her sister, Alice Gordon Gulick, who had started a school for girls there in 1871.\n\nIn 1877, Gordon met Frances E. Willard at a Dwight L. Moody revival meeting, in the building where Willard was holding temperance meetings. Gordon's younger brother Arthur had died just days before, a traumatic event which had, as Willard later wrote, driven Gordon \"Godward\". The two became close friends, with Gordon continuing to play organ for Willard's meetings. Gordon eventually moved into Willard's residence as her personal secretary. Gordon subsequently followed her employer on her travels through the United States, Canada and Europe, spending a year in England, mostly as the guests of Lady Henry Somerset.\n\nGordon and Willard remained close friends until Willard's death in 1898, at which time Lillian M. N. Stevens became president of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, with Gordon as vice-president. That same year, Gordon also wrote a memorial biography of Willard (expanded and reprinted in 1905). Upon Lillian Stevens' death in 1914, Anna Adams Gordon became president of the WCTU.\n\nDuring the First World War, Gordon was instrumental in convincing U.S. President Woodrow Wilson to harden the federal government's policies against the manufacture of alcoholic beverages, most notably by criminalizing the use of foodstuffs to make alcohol. Later, in 1919, temperance organizations scored a major victory with the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which fully established prohibition in the United States. After this success, the WCTU under Gordon's guidance began to turn more towards temperance enforcement, and causes peripheral to the temperance movement, such as citizenship for immigrants, women's rights in the workplace, and child protection.\n\nIn November 1922, she was elected president of the World Women's Temperance Union (WWCTU), and resigned her presidency of the national WCTU organization.\n\nShe died on June 15, 1931, in Castile, New York.\n\nDuring Gordon's career, she also became president of the World League Against Alcoholism, vice-president of the National Temperance Council, and vice-chairman of the Commission of Nineteen on the National Constitutional Prohibition Amendment. She was deeply involved in temperance work with the National Council of Women, the International Sunday-School Association, the World's Woman's Christian Temperance Union, the National Legislative Council, etc.\n\nAs a leader in the WCTU, Gordon was a staunch believer in the need to interest children in temperance at a very early age. To that end, she authored a number of books of stories, verse, and song aimed at children, as well as publications for adults. Sales of her books were said to have surpassed a million copies. Her temperance songs became especially successful and were translated into multiple languages. She was also the editor of the \"Union Signal\", the news organ of the WCTU, and \"The Young Crusader\", the newspaper of the Loyal Temperance Legion, the WCTU's children's branch.\n"}
{"id": "53207360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53207360", "title": "Backyard Worlds", "text": "Backyard Worlds\n\nBackyard Worlds: Planet 9 is a NASA-funded citizen science project which is part of the Zooniverse web portal. It aims to discover new brown dwarfs and other low-mass stars, some of which might be among the nearest neighbors of our solar system, and might conceivably detect Planet Nine. The project's principal investigator is Marc Kuchner, an astrophysicist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.\n\nBackyard Worlds was launched in February 2017 shortly before the 87th anniversary of the discovery of Pluto, which until its reclassification as a dwarf planet in 2006 was considered the Solar System's ninth major planet. Since that reclassification evidence has come to light that there may be another planet located in the outer region of the Solar System far beyond the Kuiper belt, most commonly referred to as Planet Nine. This hypothetical new planet would be located so far from the Sun that it would reflect only a very small amount of visible light, rendering it too faint to be detected in most astronomical surveys conducted to date. Models of the conjectured planet's atmosphere suggest however that methane condensation could in some cases make it detectable in infrared images captured by the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) space telescope. Due to the effects of proper motion and parallax Planet Nine would appear to move in a distinctive way between images taken of the same patch of sky at different times. In addition to Planet Nine other objects such as nearby brown dwarfs would also be seen to move.\n\nThe citizen scientists search through a flip book-style animation of specially processed infrared images captured by WISE, taken with filters at the wavelengths of 3.4 and 4.6 micrometers. The images contain instrumental artifacts and are noisy, which hampers the use of automated image processing software and makes the task ideal for exploiting human visual recognition capabilities.\n\nThe project has been awarded a grant from NASA's Astrophysics Data Analysis Program which will fund it until 2020.\n\nIn June 2017, it was announced that Backyard Worlds had made its first official discovery: a brown dwarf designated WISEA 1101+5400, of spectral type T5.5 and located 34 parsecs (111 light years) from Earth. A paper announcing the discovery was accepted for publication in \"Astrophysical Journal Letters\", and Backyard Worlds now holds the record among all Zooniverse projects as having the shortest time from project launch to first publication.\n\nIn December 2017, seven new brown dwarfs were confirmed, as well as two cool subdwarfs. The spectral types of the new brown dwarfs were T0, T2.8, T5, T6, T6.5, and two of type T8. In addition, there were 337 brown dwarf candidates awaiting spectra for confirmation.\n\nAs of the first anniversary of the project in February 2018, the project has so far discovered 17 brown dwarfs and two cool subdwarfs. The coldest object discovered is of spectral type T9, which raises hopes of discovering type Y dwarfs in the future. In addition, a spectrum was also taken of one possibly variable object of unknown type that does not actually exhibit proper motion. There are 432 objects of interest awaiting verification, of which 38 are Y dwarf candidates.\n\nIn July 2018 an update on the project's blog stated that in total 42 brown dwarfs have so far been spectroscopically confirmed from a list of 879 candidates. Fourteen of those confirmed are closer to the solar system than .\n\nZooniverse projects:\n"}
{"id": "44092272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44092272", "title": "Bajju Rajput", "text": "Bajju Rajput\n\nThe Bajju (also known as Baju and Baj) are a Rajput community from the Punjab region and Jammu and Kashmir in India and Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "54397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54397", "title": "Banawá", "text": "Banawá\n\nThe Banawá (also Banawa, Banavá, Jafí, Kitiya, Banauá) are an indigenous group living along the Banawá River in the Amazonas State, Brazil. Their territory is between the Juruá and Purus Rivers. Approximately 158 Banawá people live in one major village and two smaller settlements containing a single extended family each. The Banawá, who call themselves Kitiya, speak Banawá, a dialect of the Madi language.\n\nTheir territory was invaded at the end of the 19th century, during the rubber boom. In the 1990s, Brazil formally recognized their land rights.\n"}
{"id": "52336722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52336722", "title": "Cannabis in North Korea", "text": "Cannabis in North Korea\n\nThe status of cannabis in North Korea is unclear due to the lack of sources available to the outside world, with some observers stating that cannabis is effectively legal, or at least tolerated, in the country and others arguing that this is a misapprehension and that the drug is illegal.\n\nCannabis was an important crop in ancient Korea, with samples of hempen fabric discovered dating back as early as 3000 BCE. The traditional sambe cloth is made from hemp.\n\nIn 2010, the American NGO Open Radio for North Korea stated that their source informed them that a crackdown on meth had been announced in Hamkyungbuk-do, but that the crackdown was focused on methamphetamine, with opium and marijuana not being considered \"drugs\". In 2013, citing sources at NK News and Reddit, Vice News reported that cannabis was widely used and tolerated in North Korea, smoked as \"ipdambae\" (잎담배, \"leaf tobacco\") by the lower classes as a cheap alternative to cigarettes and to relax after a day of labor. According to Lexi De Coning of MassRoots, it is fairly common for North Koreans to grow their own marijuana, or to simply harvest marijuana plants which grow wild across the country.\n\nHowever, a reply by journalist Keegan Hamilton in a 2014 article in \"The Guardian\" sought to debunk these as rumors. He cited Matthew Reichel of the Pyongyang Project who notes that ipdambae is actually a mixture of herbs and tobacco, superficially resembling cannabis but unrelated. Cannabis is cultivated industrially, but in the form of low-THC hemp, and while some people may cultivate personal amounts of psychoactive cannabis, its use is not condoned, though it is also unlikely to be punished severely.\n\n"}
{"id": "29875101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29875101", "title": "Care work", "text": "Care work\n\nCare work is a sub-category of work that includes all tasks that directly involve care processes done in service of others. It is often differentiated from other forms of work because it is considered to be intrinsically motivated, meaning that people are motivated to pursue care work for reasons other than financial compensation. Another factor that is often used to differentiate caring labor from other types of work is the motivating factor. This perspective defines care labor as labor undertaken out of affection or a sense of responsibility for other people, with no expectation of immediate pecuniary reward. Regardless of motivation, care work includes care activities done for pay as well as those done without remuneration.\n\nCare work refers to those occupations that provide services that help people develop their capabilities, or the ability to pursue the aspects of their lives that they value. Examples of these occupations include child care, all levels of teaching (from preschool through university professors), and health care of all types (nurses, doctors, physical therapists and psychologists). Care work also includes the array of domestic unpaid work that is often disproportionately performed by women.\n\nCare work is frequently focused on the responsibility to provide for dependents, such as children, the sick, and the elderly. However, care work also refers to any work done in the immediate service of others, regardless of the recipient's dependent or nondependent status, and can even extend to \"animals and things.\"\n\nThe study of care work is closely linked with the fields of feminist economics and feminist legal theory, and is associated with scholars including Marilyn Waring, Nancy Folbre, Martha Albertson Fineman, Paula England, Maria Floro, Diane Elson, Caren Grown and Virginia Held.\n\nThe products of care work are essential to human well-being. Without genuine care and nurturing, it is thought that children cannot develop into high-functioning individuals, and adults have a hard time maintaining or expanding their well-being and productivity. Actively involved childcare, whether provided in the home or by the private sector, contributes to the development of healthy and productive children. Effective care for the sick allows recipients to remain productive and continue contributing to society. In this sense, care work is directly related to the health of a society as well as to the economic development of that society in that well-cared for people can more effectively contribute to the market. Care work is responsible for creating both social capital and human capital.\n\nCaring for others is often costly, which is why care work is associated with the “care penalty”. This penalty is so named because a person's work caring for others is often not compensated by any monetary means. It has been suggested that individuals who don’t take care of others—especially the next generation—will not be capable of reproducing themselves. The implication is that the receipt of care is often necessary for individuals to reach the stage of life where they can go on to care for others. This argument suggests that care is necessary for the development of human life and, on a larger scale, for functional societies. The target of teaching individuals to care for others may lead to forms of distributional struggle, particularly along gender lines.\n\nA popular belief in economics is that the household sector is a wealth spender rather than a wealth creator, although many argue that the household sector plays a very important role in wealth creation. Unlike the business sector, the wealth created by the household sector is not financial wealth, which is unsurprising in that much of the work done in the household sector is unpaid. The resulting wealth falls into the category of social wealth because the care work that parents perform in raising a child increases that child's ability to perform in society later. As a whole, the individuals who benefit from having received care perform better in academic and social settings, enabling them to create financial wealth later in life and to play a part in increasing social capital.\n\nSabine O’Hara offers an expanded concept of the role of care in the economy, arguing that not only people, but \"everything needs care.\" Foregrounding what is often treated as \"context\" and highlighting the sustaining nature of care services offered outwith the formal economy, she sees care as the basis of market economies.\n\nBefore the Industrial Revolution, care work (such as taking care of the household and raising children) was done by the entire family, and often involved the contributions of an entire community. In this sense, the core sphere was not seen as separate from daily business interactions, because the idea of the market did not yet exist as it does today. With the dawn of the Industrial Era, the core sphere became more separate from jobs and business, which were performed outside and away from the home. Largely as a product of patriarchal societies, men became the ones who left the home to do their work in factories and other non-domestic jobs. Women, who were considered better suited to nurturing, were left at home and expected to provide childcare and do the housework. This familial hierarchy persisted and has continued to show itself in the contemporary American family, with a breadwinner father, a homemaker mother, and their children. As women's duties in the home were not seen as part of any economic market, they were believed to be unimportant and were largely ignored.\n\nThis issue persists today in the field of economics. Acts performed in the home often carry considerable replacement costs but are not factored into productivity. It is possible to pay others to perform many of the tasks associated with care work, but to do so is often prohibitively expensive. When adding up the potential costs of work such as round-the-clock childcare, housekeeping, cooking, and the cost of a person such as a home health aide to provide care for elderly family members, it proves much more cost effective for families to substitute their time rather than pay the replacement cost. While paid care work is considered employment, work undertaken by family members is not counted as productive towards the economic market and is therefore overlooked when considering things such as employment status.\n\nDespite persisting complications regarding the perception of care work, the economic environment has changed from what it was a century ago. Many more women now participate in the labor force at least part-time, and many more believe that the \"cult of domesticity\" for women of the 19th and 20th centuries is a thing of the past. However, studies show that women have come to dominate caring professions - such as teaching, childcare, nursing, social work - and that most of these professions are paid considerably less than the occupations more frequently held by men. To add to this, women frequently are still expected to do the housework and to raise the children in many families. The persisting idea that care work is unimportant combined with these factors explains why care work continues to be ignored from an economic point of view, and why women still have a difficult time shirking gender roles.\n\nMany studies have shown that women provide the majority of unpaid childcare, while some have shown men to be more likely to support the elderly. The comparative willingness of women to perform unpaid care work has historically contributed to the poor compensation received by people in care-based professions. The historical and cultural pressure on women to provide these services without assurance of financial compensation has devalued care work, leading to these professions being heavily underpaid in comparison to professions which require a similar amount of training and work but are not equivalent to any domestically performed tasks.\n\nWomen also carry a heavier burden of care work in the home in comparison to men. This is largely due to both biological differences and historical and cultural traditions. The biological differences explain that women show more affection and love in performing care work when compared with men. Historical and cultural traditions explain the widely held ideology of women's role in caring for others. In Nepal women work 21 more hours each week than men, and in India, 12 more hours. In Kenya 8- to 14-year-old girls spend 5 hours more on household chores than boys. In all these cases most of these extra work hours for women are spent on care work. This poses a particular problem for women in that these extra hours of domestic care work translate into a difficult balance for women between market work and domestic work. Since the division of household labor women have not been given many choices other than care work as patriarchal systems have used their physical force, property rights, and cultural norms to force women to take over specializations that are deemed unfit for men.\n\nThe historical push of women into care work combined with the contemporary dominance of women in these fields, accounts for the modern conceptions that care work is inherently feminine work. However, care work is not naturally feminized. Instead, care work is only socialized into a feminine sphere, and is also done by males. Despite the social nature of the feminization of care work, it has become so feminized that there is often a stigma against men who engage in care work. This stigma may discourage men from entering care work as well as further propagate the belief that care work is inherently women's work.\n\nFurthermore, there are many differences in earning between high school graduates and college graduates. This difference is especially pertinent between male and female individuals searching for a job. If unemployed, the differences between the rates of high school graduates and college graduates may even be similar. However, women tend to find more opportunities in unpaid care work if they are unable to get into the paid work force. If individuals are unable to achieve a degree, they will not meet the threshold of what many jobs require. This inevitability is felt by much of the world population who are unable to attend school due to staying in their household to take care of elderly or sick family members.\n\nRecently, individual people are not the only ones who claim to provide care. An increasing number of companies are claiming that they will care for you in order to attract you into purchasing their services. For example, Lufthansa, an airline company, had an advertisement that read, \"Service as dependable as a shoulder to lean on.\" The accompanying picture displayed a woman leaning her head on a man's shoulder, with both sound asleep. In this case, the take-away message seems to be that a high degree of care translates into high quality. Another airline company, British Airways, had an ad that displayed the same message. It read, \"New Club World cradle seat. Lullaby not included.\" The image accompanying the statement showed a woman caring for a baby in her arms. The baby's head, however, was switched with that of a relaxed and content passenger. These are only a few of the companies that are now promoting themselves as care-oriented in order to gain customers.\n\nCaring for others has sparked a lot of controversy as the market prices of items that are required for care increase and just as many care opportunities continue to be non-paid. The costs are increasing and the relative rise of price for the services is not providing any substitutes; this is known as the Baumol Effect. William Baumol and William Bowen describe the Baumol Effect as when there is a relative rise of price of services without substitutes. For example, the costs of childcare and sending children to college have become notably higher than in recent years. To further the pressure on caregivers, elderly lives are increasing and there are fewer siblings to share elder care responsibilities as there were, for example, during the baby boom. However, one issue to note about this effect is people taking advantage of others due to rising costs of items needed for care. The Nice Person's Dilemma is a risk that opportunists will take when they seize advantage of those who are generous and cooperative. If the Baumol effect occurs, many will take advantage of these “Nice Persons” and act as if they will pay them back, but never do because of the higher prices. This dilemma proves why \"individuals\" are unable to make any change in community care. It takes \"whole communities\" to commit this change in order for the communities to gain from provided care and make sure that people do not cheat the system through the Nice Person's Dilemma.\n\nToday, there are four parts of the economy: Business, Household, Public, and Non-profit. Typically, we only think that the business sector creates any wealth, and that the other three serve the business sector and alongside it. The truth is that all four parts of the economy generate wealth, and that wealth flows over into other sections of the economy as well. Part of the reason that unpaid care work is largely ignored is because of this belief that the household does not form wealth. In reality, the household prepares children for the other parts of the economy, and without that, none of the other sectors would flourish.\n\nHistorically care work has largely been associated with domestic unpaid work, yet with the growth and changing nature of the market, care work is occurring more frequently in the paid sphere than it has in the past. This shift has dramatic implications on both care work itself and on society as a whole. As care work is increasingly marketized there is a possibility that those that need care—the sick, the elderly and children—will not be able to afford the care they need. Another concern is that the quality of care may decrease in response to the call for profit-making and efficiency.\n\nAs a consequence of these and other concerns, this marketization of care work is under much public and academic scrutiny. These discussions focus on an array of issues including explanations for the endemic low-pay of care work, the effects of the market on the quality of care work, and the implications of the market on care workers themselves. Five particularly prominent theories of care work includingdevaluation theory, public good theory, prisoner of love theory, commoditization of love theory and love and money theory are frameworks by which academics study and explain these phenomena. Each of these theories examines care work in relation to the market.\n\nDevaluation theory seeks to explain the low-wages that are typical of care work by focusing on the fact that many care workers are women and that gender-based biases remain in societies. In short, devaluation theory asserts that decision makers under- estimate the contribution of female dominated jobs to organizational goals, including profits, and therefore underpay these workers.\n\nThe devaluation theory is supported by sociological studies. In 2002, sociologist Paula England conducted a studying that revealed, even after controlling for skill demands, educational requirements, industry, and sex composition, a net penalty of 5%–10% for working in an occupation involving care was found (one exception was nursing, which did not seem to experience the pay penalty of other care work). Overall, the evidence suggests that care work pays less than would be expected, given its educational and other requirements. However, it is not necessarily clear that this relation is caused by discriminatory factors, although it is a likely explanatory factor.\n\nCare work has a multitude of indirect social benefits that associate it with a specific type of good known as a public goods; goods that have benefits that are impossible to deny to those who have not paid for them. Education, an example of care work, is a classic example of a public good. Care work is unique in the category of public goods, however, in that receiving care also helps recipients develop skills, values, and habits that benefit themselves and others. In short, care work, by developing peoples internal capacities, imbues them with future abilities to contribute to society in the form of a public good.\n\nThis theory may explain the low-wages characteristic of care work. The standard economic argument is that public goods will be underprovided by markets because there is no way to capture and turn into profits benefits that come through social interaction.\n\nCare work has been defined as work that provides services based on sustained personal interaction, and is motivated (at least in part) by concern about the recipient's welfare. This understanding of care work has distinct effects both on the nature and wages of care work. If care workers are actually motivated by an intrinsic value for the work which they do, then economic theory asserts that they will tolerate lower wages for their work. In this sense, the low-wages of care work may be explained. Further, the connection that these workers feel to their work puts them in a poor bargaining position. For example, nurses may be reluctant to strike because a strike would negatively affect their patients whom they care about.\n\nCommoditization of emotion theory focuses on the effects of marketized care work on the care workers’ personal experiences and individual well-being. The commoditization of emotion theory asserts that many jobs in the new service economy require workers to act emotions they do not really feel and that this process is harmful to workers. For example, the commoditization of childcare may be overly emotionally exhausting on childcare workers due to the conflict between the natural emotions of this job and these workers’ need for pay. Arlie Russell Hochschild explores this theory in .\n\nThe “Love and Money” theory attempts to reconcile the perceived divide between work done for intrinsic motivation and work done for pay. Theorists assert that because male and female are seen as opposite, and because gender schema organize so much of our thinking, we develop a dualistic view that “women, love, altruism, and the family are, as a group, radically separate and opposite from men, self-interested rationality, work, and market exchange.” This belief has led to the idea that care work should not be done for pay because pay will undermine the intrinsic motivations for this work. However, studies have shown that these divides may not be so stark. Instead, it has been found that acknowledging rewards send the message that the recipient is trusted, respected, and appreciated These results suggest that the more that pay is combined with trust and appreciation, the less it drives out genuine intrinsic motivation—especially important in care work. As a result, theorists argue that the central problem with care work is under-demand and that care work should be better compensated by the market.\n\nThe debate surrounding care work has specific policy implications ranging from issues of market structure, work environments, incentive schemes, regulatory requirements, adequate financial support for care. A second major policy area relating to care work involves the question of gender analysis in economic policy.\n\nFor example, The Unremunerated Work Act of 1993 would require the Bureau of Labor Statistics to conduct surveys that would measure unpaid labor and include these measures in the GDP. This bill was supported by many but not all feminist economists. Critics argue that this bill would romanticize care work and propagate gender biases in the field. Other critics argue that care work can be performed more efficiently outside the home. Finally, some critics believe that this would create a move for care givers to value efficiency over affection, quantity and quality.\n\nAccounting for time spent in unpaid care is extremely difficult because it is often an emotionally involved activity that isn't always reported as singular activities. This becomes even more difficult because there is a \"social desirability\" bias. For example, husbands will often report more time spent devoted to care work than their wives would report for them, and vice versa. People do this because providing care is considered praiseworthy. Thus, it is hard to make a survey that can get accurate results. However, most of the problems can be minimized through the use of a time diary. This method involves respondents describing the activities that they performed during the previous day. The responses are then standardized for analysis purposes. For example, \"eating sandwich\" and \"drinking juice\" would both be considered as \"eating.\"\n\nA second policy relating to care work is the push for higher wages in the sphere of paid care work. Advocates of this policy believe that individuals who respect and fulfill norms of care will be seen as losers in the competitive economic game, if wages are not increased. Due to this stigma, some economists argue that there may be a gradual erosion of the supply of unpaid care services in the system. Therefore, in order to encourage care work, these proponents advocate for higher wages for care work. However, not all feminist economists believe that higher wages would be appropriate for care work. For example, those who ascribe to the commoditization of emotion framework argue that higher wages may push out true caring emotions in care workers.\n\nA third policy debate surrounding care work involves the feminization of care work and focuses on an attempt to make care work more gender neutral, or at least, less disproportionately burdensome to women. One model set forth to address these disparities is the ‘‘universal-breadwinner model’’ which aims at achieving equity through women’s employment and parity with men. The ‘‘caregiver- parity model’’ promotes increased support for informal care work and on forms of employment for women, such as part-time employment, that would increase their time available to provide domestic care work. The first model shifts care and reproductive work to the market and the state, whereas the second keeps care work within the household with support from public funds. Yet both models, to an extent, lift the burden of care work off of women and transfer it either toward the state or toward men.\n\nAnother model is Shared Earning/Shared Parenting Marriage, which involves not transfer payments from taxpayers to women for women to do the care work, but men actually taking responsibility for half the care work themselves, and women taking half the financial responsibility of basic needs of the family. The fact that paternity is now inexpensively provable is used to support recognition of this model. This model is also focused on improving the experience of children and removing developmental distortions from the feminization of care, such as those that arise from symbiotic mothering or paternal neglect trauma.\n\nCare work, in that it is disproportionally done by women and is also often unpaid, highlights the importance of the larger issue of considering gender in economic policy. As a result, many economists argue that gender analysis should be an essential part in the consideration of any economic policy.\n\nCare work is a universal force, but it is manifested differently across the world due to differences in a number of factors including the availability of domestic service, the extent of the informal economy, and international migration. For this reason, economists argue that there are differences between Northern and Southern countries that would influence the effectiveness of certain policies in the South. Public policies suggested for these regions include increased availability of day care centers, greater access to schools, greater access to health care, improved public transportation, increased access to telephones and more.\n\nThe Care Penalty is the term for the sacrifices one makes when performing care work. Nancy Folbre describes the term care penalty in depth in her book The Invisible Heart. Care penalties can refer to an array of sacrifices, whether it's a loss of personal time, money, or experiences missed out on while providing care. The care work in question can be provided to children, animals, the elderly, the sick, the mentally challenged, the learning incapable, and others of like disability. Providing care work limits a person's ability to compete with those who don’t have to provide such care. For example, say a single woman with the responsibility of a child is in the cards for a job promotion, but so is a single, childless woman. There is a high chance the company will take this into account and give the job to the woman who isn’t tied down to a child, because she likely has far more time to devote to the position.\n\nFolbre points out that the concept of the care penalty leads to distributional struggles extremely relevant to gender roles (see 5.3). In situations like the Good Parent's Dilemma, this is made known. When two people choose to have a child, in most cases, one parent is forced to sacrifice far more than the other, so that the other can work and provide for the family. A vast majority of the time, the parent that ends up staying home and caring for the children is the mother. According to the U.S. Census Bureau report of 2012, there were only 189,000 homes run by stay-at-home dads, compared to 5,091,000 homes run by stay-at-home moms, meaning that roughly 4,902,000 more women are paying care penalties than men. When women make this sacrifice, it not only affects them in the moment, but it affects them even after the child is capable of being independent. By taking time off from their careers, these women are at a disadvantage in the work force for years to come.\n\nThis long term decline in earnings is referred to by Folbre as the “Family Gap or Motherhood Gap.” This reduction in compensation is not attributable to working fewer hours. Rather, mothers with families often are passed for advancement opportunities such as the promotion scenario described above. The motherhood penalty has been increasing in part due to increased parity of pay for men and women. In 1991 it was estimated that the “motherhood gap” accounted for 60% of the difference between men's and women's compensation. Additionally, tends to be more severe for women with higher levels of education.\n\nParenthood is seemingly the type of care work that evokes the most significant, and most common, care penalty. Since the mere cost in dollars of raising a child increases constantly, the sacrifices one has to make to raise children are increasing at the same rate. The amount of money parents give up to their children is only money they are taking away from themselves; this is an extreme care penalty. Separate from the issue of money, children tend to cause parents to make many other sacrifices. Being responsible for a child can dictate a person's decisions on where to live, what to do in their free time, and what jobs to take. There are opportunities that are necessary to turn down when one is held accountable for another person's well being, which is the perfect definition of the care penalty.\n\nAlthough parenthood may be the most common source of the care penalty, elder care also imposes costs upon the caregiver. Unlike parenthood which entails choice to some extent, an individual cannot choose whether to have elderly members of a family such as parents. Caring for elders is not legally required of a son or daughter in the same way that parents are legally bound to care for their children. There is a societal expectation, however, that adult children will provide care for their parents. In addition to societal expectations, research shows that an expectation of inheritance does have an effect on the behavior of adult children.\n\nThe care penalty suffered by caregivers of the elderly can be just as costly as the care penalty endured by parents of young children. The penalties can be both emotional and economic. Research has shown that over 60% of caregivers for the elderly experienced some depression. With regard to economic consequences, Brandeis University research demonstrated that approximately 66% of caregivers lost out on career opportunities such as training in due to care obligations. Similarly to the childcare, the caregivers for the elderly are largely female. The burden of eldercare is expected to increase due to shifting demographics which render the elderly an increasing percentage of the population. The number of persons over the 85 is expected to increase especially and this group often requires high levels of care.\n\nThe care penalty is commonly a necessary evil. If someone is in need of supervision, there are not many options to give him or her the care they require. If a person didn’t want to or for some reason could not care for this person on their own, the only other course of action would be to pay someone else to provide them with the care they need. This is sometimes impossible, since professional care can be extremely costly and can seem inefficient. With professional care there also comes moral issues; it's likely that a person wouldn’t trust a stranger to care for someone they love, and would find more peace of mind in taking on the responsibility themselves. For this reason, some victims of the care penalty have actually chosen the position, though they are aware of the sacrifices that come with it.\n\nThe Care penalty to some degree is shaped by public policy. In the United States, the Family Medical Leave Act provides that mothers are entitled to 24 weeks of leave and must be permitted to return to their same position. The Family Medical Leave Act, however, only provides for unpaid leave and it does not address long term reduction in earnings or career advancement. Additionally the prevalence of part-time employment often influences the severity of the care penalty. For example, the care penalty is more severe in the United Kingdom since part-time employment is more common.\n\nMany benefits arise when parents raise successful children. Not only do the children themselves benefit, but employers benefit from new, productive employees. Also, the elderly benefit from the Social Security taxes paid by the younger generations. Parents benefit because of reciprocity, with the child in the care-giving role and the parents in the care-receiving role. These positive externalities make it hard for those who provide the care services to charge a price that would reflect the true value of their services. Thus, the care penalty exists to this day.\n\nTheories of evolutionary biology explain females’ investment in care as rational response to ensure the benefits of their investment (i.e. the maturity of their pregnancy and child). On the other hand, men simply need to diversify their opportunities, by distributing their seed widely enough, to ensure their genes are cared for and carried forth by invested females. Institutional economics responds to this framework by emphasizing how these analyses ignore the power of social institutions that exaggerate biologically explained male power, including brute strength and freedom from childbearing and child rearing activities. The social arrangements perpetuated by these institutions are deemed to be internalized as individual preferences. Women's “overspecialization” in child rearing is understood has an outgrowth of the institution of patriarchy, rather than an absolutely biologically determined phenomenon.\n\nGerda Learner's research on the history of women has identified patriarchy, men's control over women, as a human-devised social institution dating back to the Bronze Age. Learner argues that the “production of the idea system” itself, including our recorded history, was constructed within and therefore imbued with the patriarchical system that underemphasizes women's contributions to public society. Learner asserts that this misrepresentation of women in history not only underemphasizes women's role outside of domestic work, but also works to dampen future women's ambitions outside of the home, thereby reinforcing this misrepresentation.\n\nInstitutionalized male dominance (patriarchy) has not only excluded women from written history, but also worked to limit their political representation, education and property rights. There are distinct examples of United States law and public policies that have reinforced the patriarchical structure. Until the 19th constitutional amendment provided women the right to vote, women's interests were deemed to be represented through men's political participation. Further, women only began to secure property rights on a state by state basis after the civil war and still women continued to lack any legal claim to their husband's income at this time.\n\nInstitutionalized patriarchy has worked to limit women's agency in the public sector by concentrating political and economic power in men. cite Gary Becker's Rotten Kid Theorem as a disruption to the idea that a woman's interests can be adequately represented by their husband. If individual family members consistently acted in the collective interest of the entire unit, it would be in the interest of individual family members to act in coordination with the family, which is not always the case as demonstrated by children's rebellion. This recognition of what Braunstein & Folbre (2001) term the “non-benevolent patriarch” debunks the idea that women can be adequately represented by a single head of household and contend that families represent a myriad of interests that are not always manifested in one member's actions.\n\nBraunstein & Folbre assert that the hierarchical relationship produced from the patriachical system over allocates care work to women. Understanding that economic resources translate to increased bargaining power, Braunstein & Folbre contend that men (who historically control the resources) encourage women's specialization in care work in order to limit their economic activity, thereby limiting women's bargaining power, in an effort to preserve their own authority. Therefore, the individual controlling the influx of financial resources is seen as more profoundly interested in preserving their control and power, than in preserving the well being of the entire family. In fact, Braunstein & Folbre demonstrate that more egalitarian families, where men and women are holding comparable economic resources, distribute care work more efficiently that patriarchy structures that have asymmetrical concentrations of power.\n\nModern public policy can be interpreted as covertly enforcing patriarchy by discriminating against single parent households and encouraging the patriarchical family structure that relies on a primary income earner and an unpaid care laborer. For example, the welfare law Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 cites among its goals to end pregnancy out of marriage and to promote two parent households. In addition, United States tax law imposes a lower tax rate on families that have earners with a wide income disparity than the rate applied to families with adults earning a similar income.\n\n"}
{"id": "33440372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33440372", "title": "Civil Society Coordination 2.0", "text": "Civil Society Coordination 2.0\n\nCivil Society Coordination 2.0 refers to the strong coordination achieved through the online Virtual community and the Web 2.0 phenomenon over the World Wide Web; Civil Society Coordination 2.0 basically refers to the new organizational strengths the Internet has afforded to the 21st century Civil Society.\n\nThe Civil Society Coordination 2.0 was coined by Chika Sylva-Olejeme, Founder of the Center for Diplomacy and Development (CDD) and proponent of the Oxford-Nigeria Training and Research Project, the term was first used in the context of Politics and Government on the Facebook page of Patience Jonathan Institute for Creativity and Entrepreneurship.\n\n“It is our duty to monitor, evaluate and direct the activities of our governments \nIt is our duty to ensure that governments provides adequate mentoring for their citizens \nOur method is “Government Mentoring and Monitoring System (GMMS)”\nOur platform will be the Mentorship Advocate (MA) website; created and managed by the Civil Society Coordination 2.0”\n\nThe importance Civil Society Coordination 2.0 is based on the Key principle that large groups of people are smarter than an elite few, no matter how brilliant, organised groups of people are better at solving problems, fostering innovation, coming to wise decisions, even predicting the future. It is perceived that some emerging Government policies are leveraging on the social web, it might be considered as a successful type of community organizing\n\nCivil Society Coordination 2.0 is playing a remarkable role in Governance and transparency, Nations of the world are yielding to its dictates. Examples of Civil Society Coordination 2.0 influence and control include the official government presence in social networking sites, blogs, and video sharing sites,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18739742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18739742", "title": "Crime in Benin", "text": "Crime in Benin\n\nCrime in Benin is high and especially targets visitors. Petty crime is common throughout the country. Street robbery is a significant problem in Cotonou. Robbery and mugging occur along the Boulevard de France (the beach road by the Marina and Novotel Hotels) and on the beaches near hotels frequented by international visitors. Most of the reported incidents involve the use of force, often by armed persons, with occasional minor injury to the victim. Even in daylight hours, foreigners on the beach near Cotonou are frequent victims of robberies.\n\nThere has been a continued increase in the number of robberies and carjacking incidents after dark, both within metropolitan Cotonou and on highways and rural roads outside of major metropolitan areas. Overland travel to Nigeria is dangerous near the Benin/Nigeria border due to unofficial checkpoints and highway banditry.\n\nDrug trafficking in Benin is increasing, due mainly to the porous borders and lack of government intervention of the illegal drug trafficking. While neighboring countries are making a concerted effort to fight the drug trade, the traffickers are using Benin to traffic drugs from South America into the United States and Europe. Drug use within Benin is low, with marijuana being the drug of choice. Marijuana is grown in the central region of Benin.\n\nThere is a high rate of credit card and automated teller machine (ATM) fraud, largely targeting foreigners.\n\nIn 2011, Transparency International ranked Benin as 100th of 182 countries on perceived corruption. Benin's score was 3 with 10 being the best possible score.\n"}
{"id": "1939546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939546", "title": "Croatian Canadians", "text": "Croatian Canadians\n\nCroatian Canadians are Canadian citizens who are of Croatian descent. The community exists in major cities including the Greater Toronto Area, Hamilton, Ottawa, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, Windsor, and Montreal.\n\nPopular events celebrated in the Croatian-Canadian community include the Canadian-Croatian Folklore Festival (held in eastern and western Canada) and the Croatian-North American Soccer Tournament.\n\nThere were approximately 114,880 Canadians of Croatian ethnic origin as reported in the 2011 Census compiled by Statistics Canada, rising to 133,965 by the 2016 Census. Although predominantly found in Ontario, Croatian Canadians are present in most major Canadian cities throughout the country. The ten largest Croatian communities are found in the following cities:\n\n\nThe town with the largest percentage of people of Croatian ethnic origin is Kenaston, Saskatchewan - 17.5% of its 285 inhabitants claim Croatian ethnic origin.\nStatistics Canada also designates Census Metropolitan Areas in the collection of its data. The ten Census Metropolitan Areas with the highest concentration of Croatian Canadians are:\n\n\nMost Croatian Canadians are Roman Catholic who follow the Latin Rite of their ancestors in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. A very small minority of Croatians are Byzantine Rite Roman Catholics. There is also a community of Croats who follow Islam, the descendants of those who converted after the 16th century, after the conquest of much of Croatia by the Ottomans. Communities of Protestants have historically been negligible in Croatia.\n\nIn Canada, the first ethnic Croatian parish was established in Windsor in 1950. Soon, parishes were established in Toronto (1951), Hamilton (1958), Vancouver (1967). Today there are ethnic Croatian parishes and missions in seventeen cities in Canada. In addition, previously unorganized Croats of the Muslim faith, with the arrival of eminent physician Asaf Duraković founded the Croatian Islamic Centre on June 23, 1973 in Etobicoke (75 Birmingham Street, Etobicoke, ON M8V 2C3), helped by the Croatian Catholic community. An old Catholic school was bought for 75,000 CAD and readjusted into masjid. There was also a community of Bosnian Muslims of Yugoslav option, but the Croat option of Bosnian Muslims never cooperated with them, since Muslim Croats considered all Yugoslavs and Communists as chetniks and as their worst enemies. Since the old building was in catastrophic condition, a new mosque was built on the site of the old one in 1983. Today, given changing political affiliations and political pressures from 1990's, and influx of non-Croat option of Bosnian Muslims,the center is now known as the Bosnian Islamic Centre. Despite that, today 4 out of 64 Canadian mosques have the attribute \"Croatian\". In Croatian Islamic Centre the children are taught the Croatian and Arabic languages, but there also Croatian Islamic newspapers, books, brochures, etc. Croatian Islamic Center called on Muslim governments, organisations, and individuals to press the Yugoslav regime, to end the persecution of Islam and to grant genuin equality of Muslims in Yugoslavia. The director of Centre Kerim Reis wanted that Belgrade releases the Muslim prisoners of conscience and to end to restrictions on the building of mosques. During Yugoslavia, this group often spoke accused Tito's Yugoslavia for practising discrimination both Muslim and Catholic Croats.\nWhile an overwhelming percentage of Croatians in Canada remain Roman Catholic, there are significant non-Catholic populations, including Protestants (most of whom have been in Canada for more than one generation) and Eastern Orthodox (the majority of whom are of mixed ethnic background).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4770000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4770000", "title": "Czech national identity card", "text": "Czech national identity card\n\nThe Czech national identity card (, \"citizen card\", literally \"civic certificate\"; ) is the identity document used in the Czech Republic (and formerly in Czechoslovakia), in addition to the Czech passport. It is issued to all citizens, and every person above 15 years of age permanently living in the Czech Republic is required by law to hold a valid identity card.\n\nIt is possible to use the ID card for travel within Europe (except Belarus, Kosovo (requires biometric IDs), Russia, Ukraine) as well as Georgia and Montserrat instead of a passport.\n\nThe first mandatory identity document was introduced during the German occupation, on 17 March 1939 in a decree made by \"Reichsprotektor\" Konstantin von Neurath. This document was based on the model of a similar document already in use in the Third Reich and included a photograph. Known as a \"legitimace\", it was often nicknamed \"kennkarta\".\n\nDuring the communist regime (1948–89) this simple card developed into a booklet dozens of pages long. It contained such personal details as employment history and vaccination records.\n\nTo acquire the machine-readable version of the card, a citizen must present either a currently valid card (in case of renewals), or a birth certificate and proof of citizenship. A photograph is made at the premises of the issuing authority; the form is filled out by an employee of the issuing authority and only requires the signature of the applicant.\n\nTo acquire the non-machine-readable version, a citizen must present a filled out application, two photographs, and either a currently valid card (in case of renewals) or a birth certificate and proof of citizenship.\n\nThe photograph(s) must be 35x45 mm, correspond to the current look of the person, show the person looking forwards with the distance from the eyes to the chin at least 13 mm, in civil clothes, without dark glasses (except the blind), without any head cover (except for health/religious reasons, which may not cover the face in a way that makes the person difficult to distinguish). The photograph must be smooth.\n\n\n\nThe following information is printed if requested by the applicant (who must provide proof if necessary):\n\n\nThe following information is printed unless the applicant explicitly opts out:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "571012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=571012", "title": "Dan Gillmor", "text": "Dan Gillmor\n\nDan Gillmor is an American technology writer and columnist. He is director of the Knight Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship at Arizona State University's Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication and a fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University.\n\nGillmor is also the author of a popular weblog covering technology news and the Northern California technology business sector, criticizing rigid enforcement of copyrights, and commenting on politics from a liberal perspective.\n\nBefore becoming a journalist, Gillmor worked as a musician for seven years. During the 1986–87 academic year he was a Michigan Journalism Fellow at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, where he studied history, political theory and economics. Gillmor worked at the \"Kansas City Times\" and several newspapers in Vermont, followed by six years at the \"Detroit Free Press\".\n\nFrom 1994 to 2005, Gillmor was a columnist at the \"San Jose Mercury News\", Silicon Valley’s daily newspaper, during which time he became a leading chronicler of the dot-com boom and its subsequent bust. Starting in October 1999, he wrote a weblog for \"The Mercury News\", which is believed to have been the first by a journalist for a traditional media company. Gillmor's \"eJournal\" archives were believed to be lost but have been found in the Internet Archive and are now restored at Bayosphere.com.\n\nGillmor left \"The Mercury News\" in January 2005 to work on a start-up venture in citizen journalism called \"Bayosphere\", which aimed to \"make it easier for the public to report and publish on the Internet.\" Launched in May 2005, \"Bayosphere\" closed in January 2006.\n\nAfter closing \"Bayosphere\", Gillmor moved on to a new project, the Center for Citizen Media, a non-profit organization affiliated with the University of California, Berkeley's Graduate School of Journalism and the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University Law School.\n\nIn 2007, Gillmor co-founded Dopplr, an online travel application project.\n\nIn November 2007, Gillmor was named founding director of Arizona State University's new Knight Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication. Dan Gillmor is a board member of the Global Editors Network since its creation in April 2011.\n\nGillmor won the EFF Pioneer Award in 2002.\n\nDan Gillmor is the author of \"We the Media\" (2004), which describes the Internet as an opportunity for independent journalists to challenge the consolidation of traditional media and contains Gillmor's widely cited realization: \"my readers know more than I do.\" The book offers a guide to new internet tools for journalists, including weblogs, RSS, SMS, peer-to-peer, and predicts how these tools will change journalism. In 2010, Gillmor published \"Mediactive\", a book on digital media literacy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6128566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6128566", "title": "Derde", "text": "Derde\n\nThe derde (derda, derdai, dardai) is the title held by the highest religious and political authority among the Toubou Teda of the Tibesti, in north-western Chad. He is elected among the three most prominent families of the Tomagra clan, and at the death of the \"derde\" the title never passes to the son of the deceased, but to a member of the other two families.\n\nThe \"derde\" exercises judicial rather than executive power, arbitrating conflict and levying sanctions based on a code of compensations. He is assisted in the exercise of his role by a council of nobles.\n\nIt appears that already in the 17th century the \"derde\" of the Tomagra had already established its preeminence over much of the Tibesti, through the lines of succession still valid today. The Teda of the Tibesti in the 17th and 18th centuries distinguished themselves for their raids from the Fezzan to the north and to Borno to the south.\n\nIn 1842 century Tibesti found itself attacked by the Awlad Sulayman Arabs, who had been expelled from the Fezzan by the Ottoman forces in Libya; but the key event of the century for the Teda of the Tibesti was the birth of the Senussi, a Muslim political-religious order. They were invited by the \"derde\", and with his encouragement at the end of the 19th century a Senussi zaouia was established in Bardaï, the most strategically situated oasis in Tibesti. This brought to the full Islamization of the Toubou, that until then had been quite superficial.\n\nWhen the French colonial forces in 1907 made the first raids in northern Chad, the \"derde\" asked for the help of the Ottomans, who responded by establishing a few garrisons in Tibesti; but they were evacuated when the Ottomans were forced to cede Libya to Italy. The first French troops arrived later in 1914, but a moderate degree of control was exercised only from the 1930s. The \"derde\" collaborated with the French, retaining or even increasing this way their political and religious authority.\n\nChad became independent in 1960, and in 1965 the Chadian administration settled itself in Tibesti. The \"derde\", Oueddei Kichidemi, saw himself stripped of his powers by the new government, provoking him in going in exile in 1966, an event considered the signal of the start of the Chadian Civil War in the north. The \"derde\" became now for the first time a national symbol through his opposition to the government, a role that after 1975, when the \"derde\" returned in Chad, was never to be recovered again.\n\n"}
{"id": "27870769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27870769", "title": "Federal parole in the United States", "text": "Federal parole in the United States\n\nFederal parole in the United States is a system that is implemented by the United States Parole Commission. Persons eligible for federal parole include persons convicted under civilian federal law before November 1, 1987, persons convicted under District of Columbia law, \"transfer treaty\" inmates, persons who violated military law who are in federal civilian prisons, and persons who are defendants in state cases and who are under the U.S. Marshals Service Witness Protection Program.\n\nIn general, federally sentenced inmates were eligible to participate prior to the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. Parole of federal prisoners began after enactment of legislation on June 25, 1910. Under parole, prisoners were eligible for release before their sentences were complete. Parole boards under the United States Parole Commission determines whether a prisoner should be released and whether or not a parolee who violated parole should be sent back to prison. For persons convicted under civilian federal law after November 1, 1987, federal parole has been abolished, but the parole statutes continue to apply to prisoners who were grandfathered in.\n\n"}
{"id": "40638331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40638331", "title": "Filipinos in Poland", "text": "Filipinos in Poland\n\nFilipinos in Poland, the citizens of the Philippines as well as their descendants who are currently living in Poland, are mostly residing in the country on a temporary basis. , there were an estimated 525 Filipinos across the country. \n\nAlthough Filipinos in Poland are spread throughout the country, they are mostly concentrated in urban centers, with Filipino communities in cities like Warsaw, Kraków, Poznań, and Łódź. Most Filipinos in Poland are employed either in the banking sector, in the hospitality industry, as domestic helpers, or as Catholic clergy. Some are employed also as computer programmers, while a number are also students: twelve Filipinos have studied at the University of Warsaw from 2010 to 2013 under the European Union's Erasmus Mundus program.\n\nThe Filipino community in Poland regularly organizes events, at times with the participation of the Philippine Embassy in Warsaw. Filipinos are a fixture at Warsaw's only English-language Catholic Mass, where many are active in church services, and around 100 people also gather every first Sunday of the month to hear a separate community Mass at the in the Mokotów district of Warsaw.\n\nLikewise, the Philippine Embassy organizes events around major Philippine holidays such as Independence Day and the People Power Revolution. In 2011, the Philippine Embassy organized a Marian pilgrimage to Domacyno, its first outreach project outside of Warsaw.\n\nThere has also been interest in organizing an Association of Filipinos in Poland.\n\nFilipinos have appeared on Polish television shows such as \"Dzień Dobry TVN\", \"Pytanie na śniadanie\" and other programs. Notably, Filipinos who joined Polish talent shows on television have done well: these include Christina Bien winning \"Szansa na sukces\" in 2008, Alexander Martinez placing third in the second season of \"Mam talent!\" in 2009, and Conrado Yanez placing second in the Polish version of \"Must Be the Music\" in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "32469842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32469842", "title": "History of radiation therapy", "text": "History of radiation therapy\n\nThe history of radiation therapy or radiotherapy can be traced back to experiments made soon after the discovery of x-rays (1895), when it was shown that exposure to radiation produced cutaneous burns. Influenced by electrotherapy and escharotics — the medical application of caustic substances — doctors began using radiation to treat growths and lesions produced by diseases such as lupus, basal cell carcinoma, and epithelioma. Radiation was generally believed to have bactericidal properties, so when radium was discovered, in addition to treatments similar to those used with x-rays, it was also used as an additive to medical treatments for diseases such as tuberculosis where there were resistant bacilli.\n\nAdditionally, because radiation was found to exist in hot spring waters which were reputed for their curative powers, it was marketed as a wonder cure for all sorts of ailments in patent medicine and quack cures. It was believed by medical science that small doses of radiation would cause no harm and the harmful effects of large doses were temporary.\n\nThe widespread use of radium in medicine ended when it was discovered that physical tolerance was lower than expected and exposure caused long term cell damage that could appear in carcinoma up to 40 years after treatment. The use of radiation continues today as a treatment for cancer in radiation therapy.\n\nThe imaging properties of x-rays were discovered, their practical uses for research and diagnostics were immediately apparent, and soon their use spread in the medical field. X-rays were used to diagnose bone fractures, heart disease, and phthisis. Inventive procedures for different diagnostic purposes were created, such as filling digestive cavities with bismuth, which allowed them to be seen through tissue and bone.\n\nDuring early practical work and scientific investigation, experimenters noticed that prolonged exposure to x-rays created inflammation and, more rarely, tissue damage on the skin. The biological effect attracted the interest of Léopold Freund and Eduard Schiff, who, only a month or two after Röntgen's announcement, suggested they be used in the treatment of disease. At approximately the same time, Emil Grubbe, of Chicago was possibly the first American physician to use x-rays to treat cancer, beginning in 1896, began experimenting in Chicago with medical uses of x-rays. Escharotics by this time had already been used to treat skin malignancies through caustic burns, and electrotherapy had also been experimented with, in the aim to stimulate the skin tissue.\n\nThe first attempted x-ray treatment was by Victor Despeignes, a French physician who used them on a patient with stomach cancer. In 1896, he published a paper with the results: a week-long treatment was followed by a diminution of pain and reduction in the size of the tumor, though the case was ultimately fatal. The results were inconclusive, because the patient was concurrently being given other treatments. Freund's first experiment was a tragic failure; he applied x-rays to a naevus in order to induce epilation and a deep ulcer resulted, which resisted further treatment by radiation. The first successful treatment was by Schiff, working with Freund, in a case of lupus vulgaris. A year later, in 1897, the two published a report of their success and this provoked further experimentation in x-ray therapies. Thereafter they did a successful treatment of lupus erythematosus in 1898. The lesion took a common form of a 'butterfly-patch' which appeared on both sides of the face, and Schiff applied the irradiation to one side only, in order to compare the effects.\n\nWithin a few months, scientific journals were swamped with accounts of the successful treatment of different types of skin tissue malignancies with x-rays. In Sweden, Thor Stenbeck published results of the first successful treatments of rodent ulcer and epithelioma in 1899, later that year confirmed by Tage Sjögren. Soon afterwards, their findings were confirmed by a number of other physicians.\n\nThe nature of the active agent in therapeutic treatment was still unknown, and subject to wide dispute. Freund and Schiff believed it to because of electrical discharge, Nikola Tesla argued they were because of the ozone generated by the x-rays, while others argued that it was the x-rays themselves. Tesla's position was soon refuted, and only the other two theories remained. In 1900, Robert Kienböck produced a study based on a series of experiments that demonstrated that it was the x-rays themselves. Studies published in 1899 and 1900 suggested that the rays varied in penetration according to the degree of vacuum in the tube.\n\nNiels Finsen, a Faroese-Danish physician, had by that time already pursued interest in the biological effects of light. He published a paper, \"Om Lysets Indvirkninger paa Huden\" (\"On the effects of light on the skin\") in 1893. Inspired by the discovery that x-rays could have therapeutic effects, he extended his research to examine directed light rays. In 1896, he published a paper on his findings, \"Om Anvendelse i Medicinen af koncentrerede kemiske Lysstraaler\" (\"The use of concentrated chemical light rays in medicine\"). Finsen discovered that lupus was amenable to treatment by ultraviolet rays when separated out by a system of quartz crystals, and thereafter created a lamp to sift out the rays. The so-called Finsen lamp became widely used in for phototherapy, and derivatives of it became used when experimenting with other types of radiotherapy. Modifications were made to Finsen's original design, and it found its most common forms in the Finsen-Reyn lamp and Finsen-Lomholt lamp .\n\nBy 1905, it was estimated that fully 50 percent of the cases of lupus were successfully healed by Finsen's methods. Finsen was soon awarded a Nobel prize for his research.\n\nFrom initial therapeutic experiments, a new field of x-ray therapy was born, referred to as \"röntgenotherapy\" after Wilhelm Röntgen, the discoverer of x-rays. It was still unclear how the x-rays acted on the skin; however, it was generally agreed upon that the area affected was killed and either discharged or absorbed.\n\nBy 1900, there were four well established classes of problems that were treated by x-ray, based on a set of five classes initially outlined by Freund: \"1.\" in hypertrichosis, for the removal of unwanted hair; \"2.\" in the treatment of disease of hair and hair follicles in which it was necessary to remove hair; \"3.\" in the treatment of inflammatory affections on the skin like eczema and acne; \"4.\" and in the treatment of malignant affections on the skin in cases like lupus and epithelioma.\n\nAdditionally, x-rays were successfully applied to other appearances of carcinoma, trials were done in treating leukemia, and because of the supposed bactericidal properties, there were suggestions it could be used in diseases such as tuberculosis. Experiments were also done using x-rays to treat epilepsy, which had previously also experimentally been treated with electrical currents.\n\nBecause of the excitement over the new treatment, literature about the therapeutic effects of x-rays often exaggerated the propensity to cure different diseases. Reports of the fact that in some cases treatment worsened some of the patients' conditions were ignored in favor of hopeful optimism. Henry G. Piffard referred to these practitioners as \"radiomaniacs\" and \"radiografters\". It was found that x-rays were only capable of producing a cure in certain cases of the basal cell type of epithelioma and exceedingly unreliable in malignant cancer, not making it a suitable replacement for surgery. In many cases of treatment, the cancer recurred after a period of time. X-ray experiments in pulmonary tuberculosis proved useless. Aside from the medical profession losing faith in the ability of x-ray therapy, the public increasingly viewed it as a dangerous type of treatment. This resulted in a period of pessimism about the use of x-rays, which lasted from about 1905 to 1910 or 1912.\n\nSoon after the discovery of radium in 1898 by Pierre and Marie Curie, there was speculation in whether the radiation could be used for therapy in the same way as that from x-rays. The physiological effect of radium was first observed in 1900 by Otto Walkhoff, and later confirmed by what famously known as the \"Becquerel burn\". In 1901, Henri Becquerel had placed a tube of radium in a waistcoat pocket where it had remained for several hours; a week or two after which there was severe inflammation of his skin underneath where the radium had been kept. Ernest Besnier, a dermatologist, examined the skin and expressed the opinion that it was due to the radium, leading to experiments by Curie which confirmed it. Besnier suggested the use of radium for therapy along the same purposes as x-rays and ultraviolet rays.\n\nBecquerel for this purpose loaned some radium to Henri-Alexandre Danlos of the hôpital St. Louis in Paris in 1901. Danlos successfully treated a few cases of lupus with an admixture of radium and barium chloride. Further trials of radium therapy began, though at a much slower pace than did those using x-rays because radium was expensive and difficult to obtain.\n\nRadium was soon seen as a way to treat disorders that were not affected enough by x-ray treatment because it could be applied in a multitude of ways in which x-rays could not. Different methods of applying radium had been tested, which fell into two categories: the use of radium emanation (now referred to as radon), and the use of radium salts.\n\nOne method using emanation was through inhalation, where it was mixed with air. Radium inhalation had been most studied in Germany, where regular inhalation institutes were established, and the goal was to target the lungs. That was done either to treat lung diseases, like tuberculosis, or to be absorbed through the surface of the lung to the blood, where it could circulate through the body. It was claimed that the beneficial effects produced by radium water baths were the result of inhalation of the vapors.\n\nAnother method of treatment was to condense the emanation at liquid air temperature on substances such as vasoline, glycerine, and lanoline, to apply externally to the part affected; or on quinine, bismuth, subnitrate, and arsenic, to be consumed or applied internally.\n\nRadium emanation was also passed into glass or metal tubes or flat glass-tight applicators and applied in the same way as radium tubes. In other cases was also deposited on metal points or flat surfaces of metal using electrical devices, which had the same level of radioactivity as the parent radium, but lasted a shorter duration. One way of treatment was to then drive the deposits of radioactive material into tissue using galvanic current. It was also a method of applying radium emanation to a specially designed applicator constructed to suit the needs of the patient, who could later take it home.\n\nDilute solutions of radium salts were also made, meant to be used internally. Patients would be prescribed regular dosages. More rarely, the salts were also suspended in liquids to be injected in subcutaneous treatments, which could be applied locally to affected tissues. That was considered the most expensive method, because the radium used was irreparably lost.\n\nAs with radium emanation, solutions of free radium salts were also placed in tubes; in this case, the tubes were made from platinum. In metal tubes, the radium could be employed in a number of ways: externally; to the interior of the body in places like the mouth, nose, esophagus, rectum and vagina; and into the substance of a tumor through incisions.\n\nIn 1903, the discoverer of the electron, J. J. Thomson, wrote a letter to the journal \"Nature\" in which he detailed his discovery of the presence of radioactivity in well water. Soon after, others found that the waters in many of the world's most famous health springs were also radioactive. This radioactivity is due to the presence of radium emanation produced by the radium that is present in the ground through which the waters flow. In 1904, \"Nature\" published a study on the natural radioactivity of different mineral waters.\n\nInspired by this, using preparations of radium salt in bath water was suggested as a way for patients to be treated at home, as the radio-activity in the bathwater was permanent. Radium baths became used experimentally to treat arthritis, gout, and neuralgias.\n\nX-rays and radium were noted by physicians to have different advantages in different cases. The most marked effects produced with radium therapy were with lupus, ulcerous growths, and keloid, particularly because they could be applied more specifically to tissues than with x-rays. Radium was generally to be preferred when a localized reaction was desired, while for x-rays when a large area needed to be treated. Radium was also believed to be bactericidal, while x-rays were not. Because they could not be applied locally, x-rays were also found to have worse cosmetic effects than radium when treating malignancies. In certain cases, a combination of x-ray and radium therapy was suggested. In many skin diseases, the ulcers would be treated with radium and the surrounding areas with x-rays so it would positively affect the lymphatic systems.\n\nAfter using radium in the surgical treatment of tuberculosis, researchers including Béla Augustin and A. de Szendeffy soon developed a treatment using radioactive metholated iodine, which was patented under the name \"dioradin\" (formed from \"iodine and radium\") in 1911. Application of this treatment was referred to as \"iodo-radium therapy\", and involved injecting dioradin intramuscularly. It seemed promising to the developers, because in several cases, fever and hemoptysis had disappeared. Inhalation of iodine alone had been an experimental treatment for tuberculosis in France between 1830 and 1870.\n\nWidespread commercial exploitation of radium only began in 1913, by which time more efficient methods of extracting radium from pitchblende had been discovered and the mining of radium had taken off.\n\nThe radium commonly used in bath salts, waters, and muds was in low-grade preparations, due to the expense, and their usefulness in curative solutions was questioned, since it had been agreed upon by physicians that radium could only be used successfully in high doses. It was believed that even radiation emanation at higher doses that were useful would cause no harm, because the radioactive deposits were found to have been absorbed and released in urine and waste within a period of three hours.\n\n\"Radium emanation activators\", apparatuses that would apply radium emanation to water, started being produced and marketed. Scientifically constructed emanators were sold to hospitals, universities, and independent researchers. Certain companies advertised that they would only give them out to others on a medical prescription and would guarantee the strength of radium in each dose.\n\nMany products which imitated emanation activators were more broadly marketed to the public. One such product was the \"Revigator\", a \"radioactive water crock.\" A dispensing jar made of radium-containing ore, the idea was that radon produced by the ore would dissolve in the water overnight. It was advertised: \"Fill jar every night. Drink freely . . . when thirsty and upon arising and retiring, average six or more glasses daily.\" The American Medical Association (AMA) was concerned that the public was being fleeced by charlatans. In response, the AMA established guidelines (in effect from 1916 to 1929) that emanators seeking AMA approval had to generate more than 2 μCi (74 kBq) of radon per liter of water in a 24-hour period. Most devices on the market, including the \"Revigator\" did not meet that standard.\n\nMany other quack cures and patent medicines were sold on the market. Radithor, a solution of radium salts, was claimed by its developer William J. A. Bailey to have curative properties. Many brands of toothpaste were laced with radium that was claimed to make teeth shine whiter, such as Doramad Radioactive Toothpaste. Ostensibly, this would be because the radium would kill the bacteria in a person's mouth. One item, called \"Degnen's Radio-Active Eye Applicator\" manufactured by the Radium Appliance Company of Los Angeles, California, was sold as a treatment for myopia, hypermetropia, and presbyopia. Face creams and powders were sold, with names like 'Revigorette' and 'Tho-radia'. It was also sold as a supplement to smoking cigarettes. Companies also marked radioactive pads and compresses for the treatment of illnesses.\n\nIn light of the supposed curative properties of radioactivity, a spa was opened up in Joachimsthal, the place at which Madame Curie gathered some of her original samples of radium from spring waters. Radon inhalation rooms were set up, where air tubes carried the gas up from a processing tank in the basement; the visitor would then use it through an inhalation apparatus. Baths were set up which were also irradiated, and irradiated air was also filtered through a trumpet-like pipe for inhalation.\n\nConcerns about radium were brought up before the United States Senate by California Senator John D. Works as early as 1915. In a floor speech he quoted letters from doctors asking about the efficacy of the products that were marketed. He stressed that radiation had the effect of making many cancers worse, many doctors thought the belief that radium could be used to cure cancers at that stage of the development of therapy was a \"delusion\" — one doctor quoted cited a failure-to-success rate of 100 to 1 — and the effects of radium water were undemonstrated.\n\nAround the start of the 1920s, new public health concerns were sparked by the deaths of factory workers at a radioluminescent watch factory. In 1932, a well-known industrialist, Eben Byers died of radiation poisoning from the use of Radithor, a radium water guaranteed by the manufacturer to contain 2 μCi of radium. Cases sprung up of the development of carcinoma in patients who had used conventional radium therapy up to 40 years after the original treatments.\n\nRobley D. Evans made the first measurements of exhaled radon and radium excretion from a former dial painter in 1933. At MIT he gathered dependable body content measurements from 27 dial painters. This information was used in 1941 by the National Bureau of Standards to establish the tolerance level for radium of 0.1 μCi (3.7 kBq).\n\nAt the International Congress of Oncology in Paris in 1922, Henri Coutard, a French radiologist working with the Institut Curie, presented evidence that laryngeal cancer could be treated without disastrous side-effects. Coutard was inspired by the observations of Claudius Regaud, who found that a single dose of x-rays sufficient enough to produce severe skin damage and tissue destruction in a rabbit, if administered in fractions, over a course of days, would sterilize the rabbit but have no effect on subcutaneous tissues.\n\nBy 1934, Coutard had developed a protracted, fractionated process that remains the basis for current radiation therapy. Coutard's dosage and fractionation were designed to create a severe but recoverable acute mucosal reaction. Unlike previous physicians, who believed that cancerous cells were more affected by radiation, he assumed that the population of cancerous cells had the same sensitivity for regeneration as normal cells. Coutard reported a 23% cure rate in the treatment of head and neck cancer. In 1935, hospitals everywhere began following his treatment plan.\n\nTreatments of cancer by x-ray today generally follows Coutard's fractionated process, while radiated rods are used in brachytherapy.\n\nThe three main divisions of radiation therapy are external beam radiation therapy or teletherapy, brachytherapy or sealed source radiation therapy, and systemic radioisotope therapy or unsealed source radiotherapy. The differences relate to the position of the radiation source; external is outside the body, brachytherapy uses sealed radioactive sources placed precisely in the area under treatment, and systemic radioisotopes are given by infusion or oral ingestion.\n\nParticle therapy is a special case of external beam radiation therapy where the particles are protons or heavier ions.\n\nIntraoperative radiation therapy or IORT is a special type of radiation therapy that is delivered immediately after surgical removal of the cancer. This method has been employed in breast cancer (TARGeted Introperative radiation therapy or TARGIT), brain tumors and rectal cancers.\n\nRadioactive iodine, as developed in 1911, survives today primarily in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis (hyperthyroidism) and some types of thyroid cancer that absorb iodine. Treatment involves the important iodine isotope iodine-131 (I), often simply called \"radioiodine\" (though technically all radioisotopes of iodine are radioiodines; see isotopes of iodine).\n\n"}
{"id": "31172966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31172966", "title": "History of the Industrial Workers of the World", "text": "History of the Industrial Workers of the World\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) is a union of wage workers which was formed in Chicago in 1905. The IWW experienced a number of divisions and splits during its early history.\n\nWhen the office of the IWW president was abolished at the convention in 1906, deposed President Sherman and his supporters, many from the Socialist Party and the Western Federation of Miners, formed a rump IWW, which ceased to exist after about a year.\n\nAfter the 1908 convention of the original IWW, at which Socialist Labor Party (SLP) head Daniel DeLeon was barred from voting via credentials challenges, DeLeon and the SLP bolted to form another rump IWW, which came to be called the Detroit IWW. In 1915, the Detroit IWW changed its name to the Workers' International Industrial Union (WIIU). The WIIU continued its close relationship with the SLP, but ceased to exist in 1924.\n\nThere was another division within the original Chicago IWW which caused political infighting for many years, and finally split the organization in 1924. This time, the two groups were referred to as the centralizers and the decentralizers. This split was in part responsible for a serious decline in membership — a decline from which the organization has never fully recovered. The decentralizers' faction ceased to exist as a separate group in 1931.\n\nFor the existing IWW, the results of the splits were, in part, the abolition of the office of president; the departure of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Labor Party; a constitutional provision barring alliance with any political party; a reliance on direct (economic) action rather than political petition; and a focus on using creative tactics to organize low-wage, itinerant, unskilled, migratory, and immigrant workers.\n\nThe divisions in the early days of the IWW were based upon differing philosophies and ideologies, and to a considerable extent these differences could be traced to regional particulars.\n\nThe Western Wobblies were often casual workers from the mines, mills, lumber camps, and agricultural regions of the West and Midwest. These were largely male, unattached, footloose, and open to adventure. In 1918, just after the United States had entered World War I and the government charged IWW leaders with violation of the espionage law for their anti-war expressions, Robert W. Bruere wrote in \"Harper's Magazine\" that,\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World are most numerous among the migratory workers of the West; among the homeless, wayfaring men who follow the harvests from Texas across the Canadian border; among the lumberjacks who pack their quilts from camp to distant camp in the fir and pine and spruce forests of the Northwest; and among the metalliferous miners of Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, and Old Mexico. In other words, they are strongest among the men upon whom the nation depends for three of its basic raw materials—materials of fundamental importance at all times; of crucial importance in time of war.\n\nAccording to our best information, approximately four-fifths of these migratory workers are men whose family ties have been broken—\"womanless, voteless, and jobless men.\" Competent authorities estimate that about one-half of them are native Americans, and the other half men who have been uprooted by labor brokers and padrones from their native ethnic and social environments; voluntary or forced immigrants from the agricultural districts of Ireland, from the Welsh and Cornish mines, from the hungry hills of Italy, Serbia, Greece, and Turkish Asia Minor.\n\nBruere wrote of a \"pernicious system of sabotage\" by railroad corporations and other business interests, creating \"hobos, vagabonds, wayfarers—migratory and intermittent workers, outcasts from society and the industrial machine, ripe for the denationalized fellowship of the I. W. W.\"\n\nTypical IWW tactics in the West were soap boxing and, where they found it necessary, the free speech fight. As a direct result of their working class experiences in western states, Western Wobblies developed a bitter hostility toward political parties. The most conspicuous example of these anarchistic sentiments among Western Wobblies was the Overalls Brigade, who were suspicious of all political parties; believed voting and legislating a ritual aimed at deluding workers; were antagonistic toward craft unions, referring to them as coffin societies; and, were generally opposed to leaders of any kind, even within the IWW.\n\nIn the East, the IWW became the champion of ethnic solidarity and the focus of immigrant discontent, during a strike of women mill workers in Lawrence, Massachusetts, and elsewhere. One notable struggle in Paterson, New Jersey involved the production of a pageant in Madison Square Garden, performed by the strikers themselves. Many Eastern IWW members tended to be more supportive of radical state socialist principles of the Socialist Labor Party variety. They did not care for anarchy, and tended to dismiss the Socialist Party's reformist philosophy. According to Brissenden, Eastern Wobblies were \"revolutionary Marxists — doctrinaire to the bone — saturated with the dialectic.\"\n\nFrom 1905 on, many workers in the West were unable to vote. This created a different dynamic from the experiences of early IWW supporters in the East. However, by the time the IWW began to organize textile workers in Lawrence, Massachusetts in 1912, the IWW would confront the same circumstance in the East. In 1913, IWW organizer Bill Haywood would declare, \"I advocate the industrial ballot alone when I address the workers in the textile industries of the East where a great majority are foreigners without political representation. But when I speak to American workingmen in the West I advocate both the industrial and the political ballot.\" But by this time, regional differences had already exerted a significant impact on the organization.\n\nIn some sense, the Western Wobblies would evolve into the Chicago IWW after the split of 1908. The Eastern Wobblies, whom Brissenden believed held most closely to the ideals of the first convention, became the Detroit IWW after the same division.\n\nThese two factions became the most visible manifestations of a divided IWW. The Chicago, or \"Red IWW\" was referred to variously as the direct action, the economic, the bummery, or the anarchist faction. The Detroit, or \"Yellow IWW\" faction was called the doctrinaire, the political, or the socialist faction. However, there were other splits, both before and after this most significant split, in which some of the same philosophical differences played a role.\n\nFor the first several years the differences between those who favored political action via electoral politics, and those who believed that working people could never obtain justice through political action, played out within the IWW.\n\nHowever, other divisions wracked the young organization, initially over the leadership style and practices of President Charles O. Sherman, the first (and only) president of the IWW. Sherman, a failed AFL union leader who sought redemption in the IWW, was accused of expensive habits and financial improprieties, but was also faulted for favoring \"pure and simple unionism\" of the AFL variety. IWW organizer James P. Cannon observed that members questioned Sherman's commitment to revolutionary principles espoused at the organization's founding:\n\nCharles O. Sherman, the first general president of the IWW, was an exponent of the industrial-union form of organization. But that apparently was as far as he wanted to go, and it wasn’t far enough for those who took the revolutionary pronouncements of the First Convention seriously.\n\nAccording to Melvyn Dubofsky, Sherman was duplicitous, and used his position as president of the IWW \"to increase his power and line his own pockets.\"\nSherman was supported by conservative elements in the WFM. He was opposed by IWW Secretary Treasurer William Trautmann, Vincent St. John, and Daniel DeLeon, head of the Socialist Labor Party, who averred that they sought to rescue the organization's stated purpose and philosophy—revolutionary working class solidarity. The more \"radical\" element within the IWW — composed of those referred to as \"beggars, tramps, and proletarian rabble\" — specifically, those who favored direct action, some organization leaders, plus DeLeon's group — adopted a member's proposal published in the \"Industrial Worker\" which called for abolishing the office of president. The proposal was agreed to at the 1906 convention.\nPaul Brissenden believed, however, that the issues behind divisions in the first two years were more personality than principle, complicated by intrigue on the part of individuals in the two socialist parties. Brissenden weighed the arguments of the two sides, and concluded that neither side acted charitably toward the other. Furthermore, Bill Haywood, writing from prison in Idaho before his acquittal, emphatically condemned \"Shermanism\", but then chided that with a bit of diplomacy, the troubles could have been smoothed over. However, with Big Bill's charismatic leadership skills temporarily unavailable, the die had been cast. Haywood would later write (in his autobiography, published in 1929), \"Sherman had proved incapable, and if not actually dishonest, he had used an enormous amount of the funds for unnecessary purposes.\"\nAfter the Sherman faction was outvoted at the 1906 convention, they took their argument to the largest organization within the IWW, the Western Federation of Miners (WFM). There, the questions of propriety and organizational philosophy raged for the next eighteen months, with the WFM ultimately taking a conservative turn under WFM President Charles Moyer. Moyer was incarcerated along with Haywood in Idaho, but was freed without a trial. Haywood's radicalism was affirmed by imprisonment, while Moyer, sharing the same cell, was a changed man. He supported those who were already seeking to withdraw the organization from the IWW and, in spite of the fact that Haywood and St. John were likewise officials in the WFM, Moyer was successful.\n\nHistorian Joseph Rayback traces the conservative turn of the WFM to the loss of a strike in Goldfield, Nevada, where many of the Cripple Creek miners had migrated after their defeat in the Colorado Labor Wars. While the Colorado governor had mobilized the national guard, the governor of Nevada called for federal troops, which this time \"reduced leadership to despair\" and forced the WFM rank and file to finally give up its radical leanings. By 1911, the WFM once again affiliated with the AFL. Thus ended the WFM's decade long flirtation with revolutionary sentiments.\n\nThe departure of deposed President Sherman and his supporters from the 1906 convention resulted in the first of several occasions that members found themselves with a choice between two IWWs. While the so-called \"beggars, tramps, and proletarian rabble\" — the Trautmann-DeLeon-St. John faction — finished the convention with theoretical control of the organization, Sherman benefited from \"the manipulations of a socialist lawyer\" to gain possession of the office, the records, and the resources to publish the \"Industrial Worker\", which he continued to publish for a year thereafter. Sherman took the smaller share of union locals, but retained some support within the soon-to-depart Western Federation of Miners. Each side claimed to be the real IWW, while simultaneously disparaging the other side.\n\nFor approximately a year, the Trautmann-DeLeon-St. John faction fought for control, and eventually prevailed. During this time they published a newspaper called the \"Industrial Union Bulletin\" instead of the \"Industrial Worker\", only reviving that instrument in 1909.\n\nSherman's supporters held a convention of the \"Sherman IWW\" in the summer of 1907, but there seem to be no records of the event. It appeared to be their last gasp as a rump IWW.\n\nAlthough the 1907 convention of the Trautmann-DeLeon-St. John IWW was relatively peaceful, the earlier departures of the WFM and the Sherman crowd didn't bring an end to dissension within the organization.\n\nWhile DeLeon had helped to rescue the radical character of the organization from what was alleged to be a conservative and corruptive element, his own beliefs and practices soon became an issue for those same \"beggars and tramps\" with whom he'd previously allied. DeLeon's history and personality made him a fairly easy target for dissenters. DeLeon was head of the Socialist Labor Party, which Paul Brissenden described as \"always ... emphatically Marxian and its leaders have been so decidedly doctrinaire in their interpretation of Marxian socialism ... that they have been not unjustly called impossibilists.\" DeLeon's enemies commonly referred to him as the \"Pope of the S.L.P.\"\nDeLeon believed that a rise in wages for workers resulted in a rise in price, so that workers obtained no worthwhile gain from seeking higher wages. This argument suggested that one of the most significant immediate goals of unions was not worthwhile. James P. Thompson and James Connolly expressed the opposite viewpoint, grounding their writings in the work of Ricardo and Marx. When DeLeon launched a secret hearing against Connolly for \"economic heresy\" in 1907, the issue of politics vs. the economic class struggle came to the attention of the entire union, including branches of the organization in Britain and Australia.\n\nDeLeon possessed \"a supreme confidence in himself and his views,\" and was \"highly impatient\" with those who did not agree. A prolific writer, he hammered away at theory in Socialist Labor Party publications, emphasizing the importance of the IWW's participation in the \"political\" fight, and \"making it unmistakably clear that this meant helping to build\" the Socialist Labor Party.\n\nThe stage was set for a showdown.\n\nOut of the West came the overalls brigade, a group of Wobblies who wore blue denim overalls covering jet black shirts, with red bandannas around their necks. They wore IWW buttons, and they were proud of their organization. They were nineteen men and one woman, and they referred to themselves as \"red blooded working stiffs.\" They rode the rails from Portland to the IWW convention in Chicago, stopping in working class communities along the way. They held propaganda meetings at each stop, singing IWW songs and selling literature to finance their trip. Led by capable Wobbly organizer James H. Walsh, they traveled over 2,500 miles in their \"Red Special\" cattle car, ate in hobo jungles, and preached revolution in prairie towns.\n\nThese were itinerant workers from the West — representing farm hands, miners, sailors, dock workers, and \"timber beasts\" who traveled with the job, and spent much of their time unemployed. They couldn't rely upon the vote, because many of them didn't reside in one location long enough to register. They likewise didn't trust that votes counted by \"some Citizens' Alliance disciple or the Mine Owners Association\" could ever usher in the revolution.\n\nAt the convention, DeLeon criticized the newer IWW members \"for their crudities, their rawness, and their inability to perceive the more 'civilized' methods\" that he had long recommended to the organization. Historian Rayback comments, \"It was an ill-advised attack.\"\n\nThe 1905 Preamble to the IWW Constitution had stated,\nBetween these two classes a struggle must go on until all the toilers come together \"on the political\", as well as on the industrial field, and take and hold that which they produce by their labor through an economic organization of the working class without affiliation with any political party. \"[emphasis added]\"\nAt the 1908 convention, members of the IWW, led by the overalls brigade, first challenged DeLeon's credentials, declaring that he didn't actually work in the Industrial Union with which he was registered. Then they removed the Preamble language about \"struggle [on] the political, as well as on the industrial field,\" which DeLeon had made a condition of his participation at the founding convention in 1905. The IWW was left with only the industrial struggle delineated in the Preamble. DeLeon and his SLP followers walked out of the convention, never to return.\n\nCannon wrote that St. John, in his capacity as the leader of the early IWW, \"judged socialist 'politics' and political parties by the two examples before his eyes — the Socialist Party bossed by Berger and Hillquit and the Socialist Labor Party of De Leon — and he didn’t like either of them.\" Labor historian Melvyn Dubofsky weighs in on the rejection of the SLP,\n\nDeLeon was among the first to attack the \"new\" IWW (on the grounds of becoming an anarchist organization) ... But DeLeon and others misunderstood what the convention had done ... [delegates] recognized ... that political debates between socialist factions wrecked union locals and undermined labor's morale. Hence, the Wobblies decided to keep political debate within the party, where it belonged, and to promote industrial action within the IWW, whereby workers could improve their lives.\n\nTo Foner, the new orientation of the IWW was a mixed result because,\n\n[T]he program virtually guaranteed the isolation of the I.W.W. from vast numbers of American workers who knew from experience that political action was a necessary weapon in the class struggle, and that, indeed, the existence of many unions, threatened by injunctions and other court decisions, could only be preserved by labor's effectiveness at the ballot box ... [Yet] there were still fertile fields for organizing ... [and in the following years the IWW would] bring the principles of industrial unionism to the attention of hundreds of thousands of American workers, including even many of the A.F. of L.\n\nAfter the Socialist Labor Party withdrew from the IWW in 1908, it formed an offshoot of the \"Chicago IWW\" in Detroit which also adopted the name Industrial Workers of the World. (It changed its name to Workers' International Industrial Union in 1915). Robert Hoxie, author of \"Trade Unionism in the United States\", referred to the Detroit IWW as \"socialistic\", and the Chicago IWW as \"quasi anarchistic\". Hoxie, who was writing in the 1913-14 time-frame (his book was a joint effort published in 1921), wrote that socialistic unions (some of which were AFL unions) \"look forward to a state of society which, except for common ownership and control of industry and strong centralized government in the hands of the working class, does not differ essentially from our own.\" Although they were \"revolutionary,\" they would attain their goals by peaceful means, both political and industrial. The quasi anarchistic unionists, on the other hand, envision an industrial society in which the unions would act as the government.\n\nHoxie believed that quasi anarchistic unions were abhorrent of political action. Other authors have a different interpretation. Quoting passages from \"Bread and Roses Too\", Verity Burgmann has written,\nthe Chicago IWW was 'non-political' rather than 'anti-political'. J.R. Conlin insists too much has been made of the deletion of the political clause in 1908; equally significant was the rejection without discussion by the 1911 Chicago IWW Convention of an amendment to the Preamble that referred to 'the futility of political action'.\n\nWriting decades earlier, Brissenden had already taken up this question:\n\nThe \"constitution\" of the I. W. W. is not anti-political. It is merely non-political. Any wage-earner is admitted regardless of creed, race, or political opinion. But it is also true that in actual practice, as Levine remarks, \"the Industrial Workers have played and are playing the game of antipolitics.\" \"Their spokesmen,\" he says, \"ridicule the 'politicians'; severely criticize the Socialist party and insult its most prominent leaders. The non-political portion of the I. W. W. is therefore practically anti-political.\"\n\nBrissenden then elaborates on the animosity between the two IWW organizations. However, he follows with the observation,\n\nThe break was not, however, entirely caused by disagreement over political and economic principles. It was partly a matter of personal temperament—and primarily the personal temperament of Daniel DeLeon...\n\nBrissenden notes that the organizations which were run by Daniel DeLeon reflected DeLeon's character. He quotes Socialist Labor Party journalist Louis C. Fraina's evaluation of the SLP to assess that character:\n\nThe S. L. P. ignored the psychology of struggling workers [he says]. Its propaganda was couched in abstract formulas; just as its sectarian spirit developed a sort of subconscious idea that revolutionary activity consisted in enunciating formulas. This sectarian spirit produced dogmas, intemperate assertions, and a general tendency toward caricature ideas and caricature action; and discouraged men of ability from joining the S. L. P.\n\nBecause IWW President Sherman and some of his followers, who left as a result of the 1906 split, had been associated with the Socialist Party, a member of the Chicago IWW expressed the impression that they had purged the Socialist Party during the 1906 split, and then the Socialist Labor Party during the 1908 split. Thus, the non-political, direct action focus of the surviving organization evolved over a period of time.\n\nThe Detroit IWW (which became the WIIU) created an industrial union structure that was similar to that of the IWW. The split between the Chicago IWW and the Detroit IWW was replicated in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Britain.\n\nIn 1909, the Detroit IWW reported 23 local organizations. In the United States, the areas represented were mostly in the East, including Philadelphia, Boston, Bridgeport, Brooklyn, and Paterson.\n\nUnlike the IWW, which from 1908 onwards constitutionally restricted itself from political alliances, the WIIU advocated political associations, and maintained its close association with the SLP, although (as of 1922) it declined to openly affirm this association. Like the IWW, the WIIU advocated use of the general strike.\n\nThe WIIU was criticized for focusing more on party propaganda than on organizing workers. From 1908 to 1922, the relationship between the IWW and the WIIU was characterized as \"bitter\". When the WIIU reported its routine labor statistics to \"The American Labor Year Book\" for 1916 (shortly after changing its name), it included — along with its declaration of principles and its membership stats — an editorial comment on the perceived practices of the \"Chicago IWW\",\n\nThe Workers' International Industrial Union is the new name adopted in 1915 to designate the socialist industrial class union, which was organized in 1905 under the name of the Industrial Workers of the World. The change of name was deemed advantageous to distinguish the Socialist organization from the one which follows the tenets of anarchy, advocates \"sabotage,\" and so-called \"direct action,\" usually denoting non-political action. The career of the so-called Industrial Workers of the World was started at the fourth convention of the I. W. W. in 1908 with the slogan: \"Strike at the ballot box with an ax.\"\n\nThe WIIU shared much of its membership with the SLP, and struggled after DeLeon's death in 1914. According to labor historian Philip Foner, the WIIU never did conduct a strike of any importance. It disbanded in 1924.\n\nThe Detroit IWW, which became the Workers' International Industrial Union in 1916, published the \"Industrial Union News\".\n\nThe Chicago IWW is the organization that survives as the modern Industrial Workers of the World. After the 1908 split, the Chicago IWW began to refer to itself as the Red IWW, and the Detroit group as the Yellow IWW. Daniel DeLeon's followers referred to the Chicago IWW, who ultimately retained the mantle, if not the founding philosophy of the IWW, as \"the bummery\".\n\nIn 1909, the Chicago IWW reported 100 local organizations. From 1908 onwards, the more energetic Chicago IWW could take credit for far the greatest share of organizing and propagandizing.\n\nHoxie observed that quasi anarchistic unionists like those in the Chicago IWW have a different goal than the socialistic unionists such as the Detroit IWW:\nThey look forward to the \"complete\" abolition of the state and of existing governmental machinery. They visualize, not a political, but an industrial society, where the \"unions\" would be the government. All political action is abhorrent to them, partly because the state is outside their scheme of things and political action is a recognition of a compromise with it, but largely because they believe that experience has proved it to be not only useless as a working-class weapon but positively harmful to working class interests.\nHoxie continues,\n[The Chicago IWW unionists] have noted that political associations and political gains make the workers soft, conservative, and nonrevolutionary. Revolution degenerates into mere reform, and political preferment makes traitors of working-class leaders . . . Direct action, therefore, has become their slogan, that is, the making and enforcing of demands upon the enemy directly by the workers, through demonstrations, strikes, sabotage and violence. At this point, however, the quasi anarchistic revolutionary unionists themselves split into two camps, centralizers and decentralizers.\nThe IWW newspaper that focused most specifically on the Western United States (and which continues to be published today) is the \"Industrial Worker\" (which, for a time after the 1906 split, was duplicated and/or replaced by the \"Industrial Union Bulletin\"). In the East, the IWW newspaper of record for the Chicago IWW was \"Solidarity\".\n\nFoner identified a schism within the Chicago IWW in addition to the east/west divide, consisting of those who wanted a labor union with a revolutionary program, and those who merely wanted to be a revolutionary cadre leading the working class to revolution via propaganda and agitation. Many other analysts, however, identified two contesting groups essentially according to what they called themselves — centralizers and decentralizers.\n\nOf the centralizers, Hoxie observes,\nThe centralizers believe that the actual building up of the industrial organization will train and educate the workers in the conduct, not only of industry, but of all social affairs, so that when the organization has become universalized it can perform all the necessary functions of social control now exercised by the state in its legislative, executive and judicial capacities. This universal organization of the workers will then displace the state, government and politics in the present sense; private ownership, privilege and exploitation will be forever abolished. The one big union will have become the state, the government, the supreme organic and functional expression of society; its rules and decisions will be the law.\n\nHoxie explains the decentralizers,\nThe decentralizers look forward to what they call a free industrial society. Each local group of workers is to be a law to itself. They are to organize as they please. The present industrial and social arrangements are to be overthrown simply by making it unprofitable for the employing class to own and operate industries. Future society is to consist of independent groups of workers freely exchanging their products. The proper proportions of investments and production, the ratio of exchange of goods, etc., will automatically be determined, just as they are under competitive industry, only then the competition will be between groups of workers, instead of between individuals. Universal knowledge and a superior morality, which will spring up as soon as capitalist society is abolished, will take the place of our present complicated system of social control and do away with the necessity of government in the present sense.\nBeyond the described differences, Hoxie concludes, the theories, methods, and policies of the centralizers and the decentralizers were much the same. But historian Philip S. Foner described the decentralizers as \"the most vehement and noisiest of the anti-leadership element.\" They wanted to remove all officers of the union, and replace them with a stenographer. They also sought to abolish the union's General Executive Board and the annual convention. In 1913 a majority of delegates rejected the goals of the decentralizers, yet they continued their efforts for years afterward.\n\nIn 1924 (three years after Hoxie's analyses were published), as the Detroit IWW languished, the Chicago IWW was once again split by a division between centralizers and decentralizers.\n\nIn 1919 Paul Brissenden wrote that while the departure of Sherman and the Western Federation of Miners in 1906, and the DeLeon faction in 1908, meant the loss of its \"most reputable, best financed, and most respectable elements, their loss tended to give sharp definition and emphatic impulse toward a more revolutionary policy.\" As a result, the IWW became the champion of unskilled and migratory workers, including workers facing frequent unemployment, during the decade that followed. Brissenden commented in 1919 that,\n\n[The Wobblies] were able to develop great strength because they had modified their theories to the extent necessary to make some appreciable application of them to the actual conditions of economic life. They were confronted by conditions and met them at the cost of doctrinal consistency. They were unconscious pragmatists and the result is that they have made themselves felt to a much greater extent than the doctrinaires [of the Detroit IWW]. They have been strikingly successful as gadflies—stinging and shocking the \"bourgeoisie\" into the initiation of reforms.\n\nYet Brissenden wrote that the question of decentralization was \"perhaps the most fundamental [issue] ever given wide discussion by the I.W.W. membership.\" Brissenden, acknowledging in 1919 that the decentralization forces within the IWW had not dissipated, had a sense of foreboding about the future of that organization. He wrote, \"the doctrine was not annihilated in 1913; it was merely smothered. The I.W.W. may yet be 'unscrambled'.\"\n\nIn spite of \"anti-radical hysteria\" during and just after the war years, the IWW continued to grow. The IWW's peak membership probably occurred in 1923. 1924 would see the beginning of a dramatic decline, and the recent repression would work to exacerbate the internal tensions responsible for that decline.\n\nThere were a number of reasons that the IWW faced division in 1924. Wobbly leaders who had been arrested and imprisoned during or after World War I on espionage charges (for opposing the war) had just been released in two groups; some, in mid-1923, agreed to a pardon that stipulated they must refrain from activities related to their former union activism. Their decision was viewed with suspicion by the IWW, and by those who refused the pardon. Those who chose to stay in prison were released in December 1923, but their circumstances were likewise divisive.\n\nThe IWW reacted to the repression commencing in 1917, in part, by making all former leaders of the IWW ineligible for office. Ralph Darlington observed that this \"effectively severed the organization from its past, decapitating the IWW even more ruthlessly than the government had been able to.\"\n\nSome former leaders, including John Reed, James P. Cannon, and William Z. Foster, had joined the Communist Party, and disagreement over bolshevism created additional dissension. One IWW leader, George Williams, had been in Moscow in 1921, and formed a bad opinion of the political situation in the Soviet Union. He warned against possible Communist influence in the IWW, stating that it would endanger both the principles of the IWW, and the organization itself. Acting upon Williams' recommendation, the IWW chose to oppose Bolshevism. But Bolshevism was only a complicating factor. The centralist-decentralist split would play the decisive role in the future of the IWW.\n\nThe modern IWW website describes a historical offshoot led by James Rowan of the Lumber Workers Industrial Union (LWIU), who invoked the E-P (Emergency Program). The other faction was sometimes called the \"Four Trey\" group, taking their name from the address of the IWW headquarters at 3333 W. Belmont in Chicago. Once again, the question of politics played a significant role between union factions. At the 1924 IWW convention, decentralist Rowan scheduled a session in parallel with the official session controlled by the leadership. The result was two competing factions who, as in 1906, fought in the streets and in the courts for control of IWW headquarters. In his book about the IWW \"We Shall Be All\", Melvyn Dubofsky concluded that the IWW had torn itself apart through internal conflict, and that the result was \"total collapse\". Rowan formed an \"emergency program\" (the \"E-P\") from his base in Washington state, in an effort to save the IWW. \"The E-Pers believed that the administration of the IWW was too strongly emphasizing 'Political Action' as opposed to Organizing on the Job. The E-P claimed to oppose 'centralism' in favor of 'decentralism', but the E-P sought to centralize power within individual Industrial Unions.\"\n\nArchie Green attributed the decline of the IWW to the 1924 split, which was exacerbated by government persecution, and the defection of many members to the Communist Party. At the 1925 convention, there were only eleven delegates. There were no conventions in 1926 and 1927. During this period, in some parts of the country, there were two IWW halls, some of them very near to each other, each following one faction or the other. By 1930, Rowan's separatist movement was bankrupt and had about two hundred followers. By 1931 the E-P, which had been the smaller of the two factions, ceased to exist. Presumably, many in the E-P group began to drift back into the main IWW faction. However, a significant number of members \"dropped out the middle\" during the period of infighting.\n\nIn the 2009 book \"Labor, industry, and regulation during the progressive era\", Daniel Earl Saros concluded that however one characterizes its successes and failures, the IWW \"demonstrates that strong challenges were being made to the ideology of social responsibility and that the defenders of that ideology had much to gain from the suppression of radical alternatives.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "914343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914343", "title": "House system", "text": "House system\n\nThe house system is a traditional feature of schools in England, originating in England. This nomenclature may apply to similar schools in the United States. The school is divided into subunits called \"houses\" and each student is allocated to one house at the moment of enrollment. Houses may compete with one another at sports and maybe in other ways, thus providing a focus for group loyalty.\n\nDifferent schools will have different numbers of houses: some might have more than 10 houses (with as few as 50 students in each house) or as few as four or fewer (with as many as 200 students in each). In some cases, individual houses can be even larger, as in McCracken County High School in the U.S. state of Kentucky, whose five houses have nearly 400 students each. Facilities, such as pastoral care, may be provided on a house basis to a greater or lesser extent depending on the type of school. Historically, the house system was associated with established public schools in England, especially full boarding schools, where a \"house\" referred to a boarding house at the school. In modern times, in both day and boarding schools, the word \"house\" may refer only to a grouping of pupils, rather than to a particular building.\n\nHouses may be named after saints, famous historical alumni or notable regional topics (e.g. in international schools, houses are sometimes named in honor of local celebrities). Other more arbitrary names—animal names or colours, for example—are also often used. Houses are also often referred to by the original name of the building or by the name or initials of the teacher in charge of the house (housemistress or housemaster). Each house will usually also be identified by its own symbol, logo, or colours.\n\nAt co-educational boarding schools, there may be separate houses for boys and girls, as at the Lawrenceville School, whose house system is itself based on that of Rugby School. Students may also be grouped by year groups or status as boarders or day students. At Winchester College and Eton College, there is a separate house for foundation scholars. Where the school has boarders and day pupils like the King's School, Canterbury or Shrewsbury School, they will often be allocated to separate houses. There have also been cases, for example at Cheltenham College, of pupils being allocated to different houses according to their religion. At traditional full boarding schools such as Radley College and Harrow School, students are grouped by boarding house.\n\nEspecially at a boarding school, one of the main purposes of the house system is to provide pastoral care to the students. With parents absent, children are likely to depend on the school to look after their basic physical, social and emotional needs.\n\nA secondary feature of house systems is the competition between houses. For example, the traditional school sports day is usually an inter-house competition. Debating competitions and charity drives are also often organised along inter-house lines. Merit points for behaviour and academic achievement may also be totalled up for comparison between houses.\n\nSome schools have a year-long programme of inter-house events, in which each house \"hosts\" an event at which all houses compete, with points contributing to the award of the House Cup at the end of the year.\n\nShrewsbury School and Eton College still maintain an annual bumps race between houses, which was carried on by old boys to Oxford and Cambridge colleges, both of which still race in bumps; Shrewsbury and Eton race in fours, whilst Oxford and Cambridge race in eights.\n\nPupils are usually assigned to houses randomly, perhaps with the aim of balancing the houses in order to increase competition. Sometimes the assignment is based on the social and emotional needs of the student and to ensure proper peer mentoring is enhanced with the right fit of students within a house. Traditionally, however, once a pupil has been assigned to a house, any younger siblings he or she has may automatically become members of that house when they arrive at the school, but this varies from school to school. (This tradition sometimes extends to the children of former pupils.) Once a pupil has been allocated to a house they stay with that house as they move up through the year groups.\n\nOne notable feature of the house system is the appointment of \"house captains\", and maybe other house prefects, who exercise limited authority within the house and assist in the organisation of the house. Large schools may have a house captain for each year group (with vice-captains in the largest schools).\n\nIn boarding schools, the term \"housemaster\" or \"housemistress\" is the title held by the member of staff responsible for pupils living in a particular house (or dormitory). In state schools, members of staff are appointed as (or volunteer to become) \"head of house\". However, both terms can be used at either style of school for the sake of formality.\n\nIn some cases, houses may have their own staff members other than housemaster or housemistress. For example, at the aforementioned McCracken County High School, each house has its own principal, guidance counselor, and teachers.\n\nThe term \"house system\" is also used to refer to the residential college systems found in some US colleges and universities, such as Rice University, Caltech, Yale College, Harvard College, Notre Dame, and University of Chicago. These systems are based on the college systems of Oxford and Cambridge Universities in the United Kingdom, which in turn share many similarities with the house systems of British secondary schools.\n\nThe first boarding-school story was Sarah Fielding's \"The Governess, or The Little Female Academy\", published in 1749. The genre did not become popular until 1857, with Thomas Hughes' novel \"Tom Brown's School Days\". The house system has since featured prominently in thousands of school stories books, with many authors writing a whole series of books such as Chalet School and Malory Towers which have been published around the world and translated into several languages. The \"Harry Potter\" books and films (re)popularized this genre, and resulted in unprecedented awareness of British boarding schools (and their house system) in countries where they were previously unknown.\n\nThese stories depict the popular conception of a British boarding school rather than how modern boarding schools work in reality, and often focus on the most positive aspects. For example, loyalty to one's house is very important in real-life houses, and features prominently in many of these books. The \"Harry Potter\" books have updated the boarding school to 21st-century values, for example by depicting mixed-sex education houses. Most Britons never went to a boarding school, but have integrated their values by reading these books.\n\nThe translators of some foreign editions of the \"Harry Potter\" books had difficulties conveying the \"house\" concept in languages like Russian or German, because there was no word that could adequately convey the importance of belonging to a certain house, the loyalty owed to one's house, and the pride in the prizes won by one's own house. This forces translators to insert extra explanations in the dialogue, making foreign readers think that the house and boarding systems were a special feature of the fantasy setting rather than a real-world feature which would not need to be explained to a typical British child.\nThe French translation does not explain the differences between the French and English real-world boarding schools, instead having the house system and the head boys explained as peculiarities of Hogwarts.\n\n"}
{"id": "31516779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31516779", "title": "Human trafficking in the Dominican Republic", "text": "Human trafficking in the Dominican Republic\n\nHuman trafficking in the Dominican Republic is the third largest international crime enterprise in the Caribbean, generating 9.5 billion U.S, dollars annually. Local women and children are reportedly subjected to forced sex in the country and throughout the Caribbean, Europe, South America, and the United States. Women from other countries are also brought to the Dominican Republic for prostitution, and an unknown number may have subsequently become trafficking victims, even if they came voluntarily at first. The large population of undocumented or stateless persons of Haitian descent in the country is particularly vulnerable to trafficking.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe United Nations defines trafficking as \"the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring, or receipt of persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability, or of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation.\" United Nations has reported on forced prostitution of Dominican women in brothels in Haiti frequented by MINUSTAH Peacekeepers.\n\nDominican men and women have been subjected to sex forced labor in the United States and Argentina. Most trafficked victims are sent to Western Europe, and some are sent to North America. Out of all areas in the Caribbean, the Dominican Republic has the highest amount of trafficked persons; women are trafficked to Costa Rica and Panama as well as to Western Europe. There are over one thousand Dominican commercial sex workers in Spain and 3,675 in Switzerland. While the Ministry of Labor reported that sugar plantations no longer use child labor, the sugar industry has been cited as vulnerable for possible use of forced labor. A 2009 NGO study found of some 500 male Haitian construction workers interviewed, 21 percent reported experiencing forced labor in the Dominican Republic at some point, although not in their current jobs as construction workers. However, the December 2014 \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" reported 5 agricultural goods produced under such working conditions in the Dominican Republic, all of them involving child labor and one involving both child labor and forced labor. Street children and undocumented or stateless Haitian people – including the Dominican-born children and grandchildren of Haitian migrants – were vulnerable groups to trafficking. Child sex tourism is a problem, particularly in coastal resort areas, with child sex tourists arriving year-round from various countries.\n\nThe Government of the Dominican Republic does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so. The government has not convicted any trafficking offenders, including officials possibly complicit in trafficking, since 2007. Results in the areas of victim protection, and trafficking prevention were also limited.\n\nUnemployment, poverty, illiteracy, history of abuse, drug use, and gang membership are all individual causes of rising human trafficking within the Caribbean. Oftentimes, traffickers will work along the border between Haiti and the Dominican Republic and trick fathers and mothers into letting their children leave, resulting in the exploitation of their children. There are external and global factors as well, some of which include the global demand for domestic servants, agricultural workers, and factory labor; political, social, or economic crises; natural disasters, the machismo attitude which causes men to discriminate against the female gender, public corruption, lack of government interest, and the limited economic opportunities. Most trafficked individuals often are never able to pay off their remittances which equates to about an estimated amount of 325 billion U.S. dollars; resulting in a lack of development to his or her said country.\n\nMore specifically, in the Dominican Republic, 38% of the 784 Dominican and Haitian children questioned worked in the agricultural sector, as domestic workers in family homes and other informal activities such as street selling. Most children work six or seven days a week because they are required to take care of themselves.\n\nTwo groups that are currently of specific concern are irregular migrants and deportees. Irregular migrants are those that move illegally across borders, those who enter a country legally but then stay beyond the limits of his or her visas, and people whose residency or citizenship status is modified because of changes in laws and regulations. Irregular migrants often enter into a vulnerable state where they suffer from both physical and emotional abuse. They do not want to leave the country and so suffer extortion and exploitation as a result. Many are promised that they will gain employment and then are sold by trafficking gangs.\n\nIt is difficult to deduce the exact impact of trafficking or the number of women and children who have been affected because of circumstances such as violence, abuse, coercion, trauma and stigma associated with being a victim of trafficking. The language barrier can sometimes be a problem; especially when some words in the English language are not in the Spanish vocabulary. Another reason why it is difficult to obtain an exact number of people who are being trafficked is because there are no registers or indicators, no legal processes on the matter, and there are seldom complaints and reports of this type of offense.\n\nDominican law prohibits all forms of trafficking through its comprehensive anti-trafficking Law 137-03, which prescribes penalties of up to 20 years’ imprisonment. The government reported 36 persons “currently in preventive detention” under Law 137-03, but these data conflate trafficking and smuggling, as Law 137-03 covers both. Authorities reported the government may prosecute trafficking offenders under other statutes; NGO observers have said corruption on the part of authorities is a problem. The government reported it provided training for officials posted abroad on identifying and assisting trafficking victims, and each year, judges take an online course on trafficking, available through the National Magistrates School. The government has claimed to have made several efforts to identify and protect trafficking victims, but results were limited. The government has not clarified whether it has a formal mechanism to guide officials in proactively identifying victims among vulnerable groups and refer them to available services offered by NGOs. The government provided $13,500 in support for an NGO-run shelter and religious order that assisted adult, female victims.\n\nA government agency, which is reportedly underfunded, managed shelters for children that assisted child trafficking victims during the reporting period. While the government did not provide formal long-term reintegration assistance programs for trafficking victims, the First Lady’s office facilitated victims’ access to psychological and financial support, and another government agency offered skills training to some victims during the reporting period. The Dominican government claimed to have encouraged victims to assist with the investigation and prosecution of their traffickers, but few elected to do so. Another NGO reported an instance where several victims were willing to assist with a prosecution but claimed there had been no progress in four years. Some officials and an NGO reported some alleged trafficking offenders made deals to compensate victims in lieu of criminal prosecution.\n\nThe government did not implement a national public awareness campaign during the reporting period, though there were several campaigns on raising anti-trafficking awareness targeted toward at-risk populations and tourist areas. A national interagency anti-trafficking commission chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs facilitated inter-agency cooperation and oversaw implementation of a national action plan, which remained reliant on donor funding but was hampered by lack of participation of the prosecution service. The government did not undertake efforts to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts during the reporting period. Since 2001, the U.S. government has given over four hundred million dollars in foreign assistance to help combat and eliminate human trafficking and the U.S. government has funded 42 task forces on human trafficking between 2004 and 2006. However, on July 16, 2012, the Dominican Republic signed three agreements dealing with human trafficking within the United States.\n\nThe Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act was enacted by the United States in 2000 and was created to establish minimum standards to combat human trafficking applicable to countries that have significant trafficking problems. The Secretary of State was to provide reports each year about countries that do not follow the minimum standards for eliminating trafficking. Each country is part of a Tier group; 1-3 with 3 being the worst. The Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2003 was created much like the VTVPA however it also addressed the top countries to be keeping a close eye on. The William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Reauthorization Act of 2008 gave more freedom to monitor and evaluate all assistance given under the previous laws. Other countries were also required to undergo inspections in critical areas where trafficking is most likely. Lastly, there also need to be better indicators for human trafficking. Data needs to describe the international population movements and provide governments with a solid basis for policy formulation and implementation. One of the greatest needs is to provide technical and financial assistance to developing countries in order to enable them to collect better migration data.\n\nThere are many economic, societal, health, and other impacts on human trafficking.\n\nTrafficking results in a transfer of money to developing countries because the trafficked individuals have to pay off the debt that he or she has for being trafficked.\n\nTrafficking reduces extended family ties and the forced absence of females leads to a breakdown of families and neglect of children and the elderly members of the family. The victims of trafficking are often ignored and shunned once he or she returns to the community and then this individual gets involved with criminal activity. Children who are trafficked are seen as forever damaged and these children suffer from trauma and psychological problems.\n\nTransporting individuals can result in injury and for some even death before he or she reaches their intended destination. Certain diseases can be a result because the transportation devices are overcrowded and unsanitary. Many individuals who are trafficked for the sex industry may also develop HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases; many times the victims are not given the option to use condoms.\n\nWomen and children are the main vulnerable groups of exploitation. These people who are trafficked no longer have human rights; these people lose the right and opportunity to grow up in a protected environment. These people also lose the right to healthcare, education, work, and other freedoms. Many governments are unable to protect women and children who are kidnapped and many government officials are bribed by the traffickers and therefore cannot combat against the rugs human trafficking.\n"}
{"id": "51093670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51093670", "title": "Human uses of living things", "text": "Human uses of living things\n\nHuman uses of living things, including animals plants, fungi, and microbes, take many forms, both practical, such as the production of food and clothing, and symbolic, as in art, mythology, and religion. The skills and practices involved are transmitted by human culture through social learning.\n\nPlants provide the greater part of the food for people and their domestic animals: much of human culture and civilisation came into being through agriculture. While a large number of plants have been used for food, a small number of staple crops including wheat, rice, and maize provide most of the food in the world today. In turn, animals provide much of the meat eaten by the human population, whether farmed or hunted, and until the arrival of mechanised transport, terrestrial mammals provided a large part of the power used for work and transport. A variety of living things serve as models in biological research, such as in genetics, and in drug testing. Until the 19th century, plants yielded most of the medicinal drugs in common use, as described in the 1st century by Dioscorides. Plants are the source of many psychoactive drugs, some such as coca known to have been used for thousands of years. Yeast, a fungus, has been used to ferment cereals such as wheat and barley to make bread and beer; other fungi such as \"Psilocybe\" and fly agaric mushrooms have been gathered as psychoactive drugs.\n\nMany species of animal are kept as pets, the most popular being mammals, especially dogs and cats. Plants are grown for pleasure in gardens and greenhouses, yielding flowers, shade, and decorative foliage; some, such as cactuses, able to tolerate dry conditions, are grown as houseplants.\n\nAnimals such as horses and deer are among the earliest subjects of art, being found in the Upper Paleolithic cave paintings such as at Lascaux.\n\nLiving things further play a wide variety of symbolic roles in literature, film, mythology, and religion. Sometimes a major disease like tuberculosis, caused by a bacterium, plays a role in culture, in its case being associated for some reason with artistic creativity.\n\nCulture consists of the social behaviour and norms found in human societies and transmitted through social learning. Cultural universals in all human societies include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material culture covers physical expressions such as technology, architecture and art, whereas immaterial culture includes principles of social organization, mythology, philosophy, literature, and science. The term \"bioculture\" has been proposed to cover all the practical uses (but not the symbolic ones) of living things in culture, including agriculture, production of food and clothing, forestry, animal breeding and training, the pet trade, use of living things in science, zoos and aquariums, animal sports, and the raising of game animals for sport hunting. \nAnthropology has traditionally studied the roles of animals and of plants in human culture in two opposed ways: as physical resources that humans used; and as symbols or concepts through totemism and animism. More recently, anthropologists have also seen living things as participants in human social interactions.\nThis article describes the roles played by living things in human culture, so defined.\n\nThe human population exploits and depends on a large number of animal and plant species for food, mainly through agriculture, an essential component of human culture, but also by exploiting wild populations, notably of marine fish. Livestock animals are raised for meat across the world; they include (2011) around 1.4 billion cattle, 1.2 billion sheep and 1 billion domestic pigs.\n\nPlants provide the greater part of food for humans, and for their domestic animals. They have played a key role in the history of world civilizations. Agriculture includes agronomy for arable crops, horticulture for vegetables and fruit, and forestry for timber. About 7,000 species of plant have been used for food, though most of today's food is derived from only 30 species. The major staples include cereals such as rice and wheat, starchy roots and tubers such as cassava and potato, and legumes such as peas and beans. Vegetable oils such as olive oil provide lipids, while fruit and vegetables contribute vitamins and minerals to the diet.\n\nPlants grown as industrial crops are the source of a wide range of products used in manufacturing, sometimes so intensively as to risk harm to the environment. Nonfood products include essential oils, natural dyes, pigments, waxes, resins, tannins, alkaloids, amber and cork. Products derived from plants include soaps, shampoos, perfumes, cosmetics, paint, varnish, turpentine, rubber, latex, lubricants, linoleum, plastics, inks, and gums. Renewable fuels from plants include firewood, peat and other biofuels. The fossil fuels coal, petroleum and natural gas are derived from the remains of aquatic organisms including phytoplankton in geological time.\nStructural resources and fibres from plants are used to construct dwellings and to manufacture clothing. Wood is used not only for buildings, boats, and furniture, but also for smaller items such as musical instruments and sports equipment. Wood is pulped to make paper and cardboard. Cloth is often made from cotton, flax, ramie or synthetic fibres such as rayon and acetate derived from plant cellulose. Thread used to sew cloth likewise comes in large part from cotton.\nPlants are a primary source of basic chemicals, both for their medicinal and physiological effects, and for the industrial synthesis of a vast array of organic chemicals.\n\nTextiles are made from both animal fibres, including wool and silk, and plant fibres, including cotton and flax. Dyestuffs too are made both from animals, including carmine from the bodies of insects, and from plants, including indigo, [madder], and lichens.\n\nWorking domestic animals including cattle, horses, yaks, camels, and elephants have been used for work and transport from the origins of agriculture, their numbers declining with the arrival of mechanised transport and agricultural machinery. In 2004 they still provided some 80% of the power for the mainly small farms in the third world, and some 20% of the world's transport, again mainly in rural areas. In mountainous regions unsuitable for wheeled vehicles, pack animals continue to transport goods.\n\nBiology studies the whole range of living things.\n\nAnimals such as the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\", the zebrafish, the chicken and the house mouse, serve a major role in science as experimental models, both in fundamental biological research, such as in genetics, and in the development of new medicines, which must be tested exhaustively to demonstrate their safety. Millions of mammals, especially mice and rats, are used in experiments each year.\nKnockout mice are used to help discover the functions of genes.\n\nBasic biological research has often been done with plants. In genetics, the breeding of pea plants allowed Gregor Mendel to derive the basic laws governing inheritance, and examination of chromosomes in maize allowed Barbara McClintock to demonstrate their connection to inherited traits. The plant \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" is used in laboratories as a model organism to understand how genes control the growth and development of plant structures. Space stations or space colonies may one day rely on plants for life support.\n\nVaccines have been made using animals since their discovery by Edward Jenner in the 18th century. He noted that inoculation with live cowpox afforded protection against the more dangerous smallpox. In the 19th century, Louis Pasteur developed an attenuated (weakened) vaccine for rabies. In the 20th century, vaccines for the viral diseases mumps and polio were developed using animal cells grown in vitro.\n\nAn increasing variety of medicinal drugs are based on toxins and other molecules of animal origin. The cancer drug Yondelis was isolated from the tunicate \"Ecteinascidia turbinata\". One of dozens of toxins made by the deadly cone snail \"Conus geographus\" is used as Prialt in pain relief.\n\nSince classical times and possibly much earlier, hundreds of species of plants have provided drugs to treat a wide range of conditions. Dioscorides's \"De Materia Medica\", written by 70 AD, listed some 600 medicinal plants and around 1000 drugs made from them, including substances known to be effective such as aconite, aloes, colocynth, colchicum, henbane, opium and squill. The book remained a standard reference for nearly two thousand years, and was the basis of the European pharmacopoeia until the end of the 19th century.\n\nAlso since the earliest times, people have exploited some of the many psychoactive substances manufactured by plants in religious rituals and for pleasure. Among the most widely used throughout history are alcohol, produced by fermenting cereals with yeast (a fungus), tobacco, coffee, tea, chocolate, cannabis, coca (used as leaf for some 8,000 years in Peru,\nand in recent times also purified to cocaine), mescaline (from a cactus) and psilocybin (from a fungus).\n\nBoth animals and plants are used to provide pleasure, through a range of activities including keeping pets, hunting, fishing, and gardening.\n\nA wide variety of animals are kept as pets, from invertebrates such as tarantulas and octopuses, insects including praying mantises, reptiles such as snakes and chameleons, and birds including canaries, parakeets and parrots all finding a place. Mammals are the most popular pets in the Western world, with the most kept species being dogs, cats, and rabbits. For example, in America in 2012 there were some 78 million dogs, 86 million cats, and 3.5 million rabbits. There is a tension between the role of animals as companions to humans, and their existence as individuals with rights of their own.\n\nMany animals are hunted for sport.\nThe aquatic animals most often hunted for sport are fish, including many species from large marine predators such as sharks and tuna, to freshwater fish such as trout and carp.\nBirds such as partridges, pheasants and ducks, and mammals such as deer and wild boar, are among the terrestrial game animals most often hunted.\n\nThousands of plant species are cultivated for aesthetic purposes as well as to provide shade, modify temperatures, reduce wind, abate noise, provide privacy, and prevent soil erosion. Plants are the basis of a multibillion-dollar per year tourism industry, which includes travel to historic gardens, national parks, rainforests, forests with colorful autumn leaves, and festivals such as Japan's and America's cherry blossom festivals. While some gardens are planted with food crops, many are planted for aesthetic, ornamental, or conservation purposes. Arboretums and botanical gardens are public collections of living plants. In private outdoor gardens, lawn grasses, shade trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, vines, herbaceous perennials and bedding plants are used. Gardens may cultivate the plants in a naturalistic state, or may sculpture their growth, as with topiary or espalier. Gardening is the most popular leisure activity in the U.S., and working with plants or horticulture therapy is beneficial for rehabilitating people with disabilities. Plants may also be grown or kept indoors as houseplants, or in specialized buildings such as greenhouses that are designed for the care and cultivation of living plants. Venus Flytrap, sensitive plant and resurrection plant are examples of plants sold as novelties. There are also art forms specializing in the arrangement of cut or living plant, such as bonsai, ikebana, and the arrangement of cut or dried flowers. Ornamental plants have sometimes changed the course of history, as in tulipomania.\n\nBoth animals and plants are significant in art, whether as background or as main subjects.\n\nAnimals, often mammals but including fish and insects among other groups, have been the subjects of art from the earliest times, in both early history as in Ancient Egypt, and prehistory, as in the cave paintings at Lascaux and other sites in the Dordogne, France and elsewhere. Major artistic depictions of animals include Albrecht Dürer's 1515 \"The Rhinoceros\", and George Stubbs's c. 1762 horse portrait \"Whistlejacket\".\n\nPlants appear in art, either to illustrate their botanical appearance, or for the purposes of the artist, which may include decoration or religious symbolism. For example, the Virgin Mary was compared by the Venerable Bede to a lily, the white petals denoting purity of body, while the yellow anthers signified the radiant light of the soul; accordingly, European portraits of the Virgin's Annunciation may depict a vase of white lilies in her room to indicate her attributes. Plants are also often used as backgrounds or features in portraits, and as main subjects in still lifes.\n\nBoth animals and plants appear in literature and film.\n\nAnimals as varied as bees, beetles, mice, foxes, crocodiles and elephants play a wide variety of roles in literature and film.\nA genre of films has been based on oversized insects, including the pioneering 1954 \"Them!\", featuring giant ants mutated by radiation, and the 1957 \"The Deadly Mantis\".\nBirds have occasionally featured in film, as in Alfred Hitchcock's 1963 \"The Birds\", loosely based on Daphne du Maurier's story of the same name, which tells the tale of sudden attacks on people by violent flocks of birds. Ken Loach's admired 1969 \"Kes\", based on Barry Hines's 1968 novel \"A Kestrel for a Knave\", tells a story of a boy coming of age by training a kestrel. Parasitoids have inspired science fiction authors and screenwriters to create disgusting and terrifying parasitic alien species that kill their human hosts, such as in Ridley Scott's 1979 film \"Alien\". \n\nPlants too, both real and invented, play many roles in literature and film. Plants' roles may be evil, as with the triffids, carnivorous plants with a whip-like poisonous sting as well as mobility provided by three foot-like appendages, from John Wyndham's 1951 science fiction novel \"The Day of the Triffids\", and subsequent adaptations for film and radio. J. R. R. Tolkien's fictional world Middle-earth features many named kinds of plant, including the healing herb \"athelas\" the yellow star-flower \"elanor\" which grows in special places such as Cerin Amroth in Lothlórien, and the tall \"mallorn\" tree of the elves. Tolkien names several individual trees of significance in the narrative, including the Party Tree in the Shire with its happy associations, and the malevolent Old Man Willow in the Old Forest.\nTrees feature in many of Ursula K. Le Guin's books, including the forest world of Athshe and the Immanent Grove on Roke in the Earthsea series, to such an extent that in her introduction to her collection \"The Wind's Twelve Quarters\", she admits to \"a certain obsession with trees\" and describes herself as \"the most arboreal science fiction writer\". James Cameron's 2009 film \"Avatar\" features a giant tree named Hometree, the sacred gathering place of the humanoid Na'vi tribe; the interconnected tree, tribe and planet are threatened by mining: the tribe and the film's hero fight to save them. Trees are common subjects in poetry, including Joyce Kilmer's 1913 lyric poem named \"Trees\". Flowers, similarly, are the subjects of many poems by poets such as William Blake, Robert Frost, and Rabindranath Tagore.\n\nThe bacterial disease tuberculosis played a role in culture, associated for some reason with artistic creativity. It was known as \"the romantic disease\". Many artistic figures including the poet John Keats, the composer Frederic Chopin and the artist Edvard Munch either had the disease or were close to others who did. Tuberculosis played prominent and recurring roles in diverse fields. These included literature, as in Thomas Mann's \"The Magic Mountain\", set in a sanatorium; in music, as in Van Morrison's song \"T.B. Sheets\"; in opera, as in Puccini's \"La bohème\" and Verdi's \"La Traviata\"; in art, as in Monet's painting of his first wife Camille on her deathbed; and in film, such as the 1945 \"The Bells of St. Mary's\" starring Ingrid Bergman as a nun with tuberculosis.\n\nAnimals including many insects and mammals feature in mythology and religion; indeed, animals and plants appear in what has been suggested to be the world's first religion in the Paleolithic era.\nAmong the insects, in both Japan and Europe, as far back as ancient Greece and Rome, a butterfly was seen as the personification of a person's soul, both while they were alive and after their death. The scarab beetle was sacred in ancient Egypt, while the praying mantis was considered a god in southern African Khoi and San tradition for its praying posture. \nAmong the mammals, cattle, deer, horses, lions and wolves (and werewolves), are the subjects of myths and worship.\nOf the twelve signs of the Western zodiac, six—Aries (ram), Taurus (bull), Cancer (crab), Leo (lion), Scorpio (scorpion), and Pisces (fish)—are animals, while two others, Sagittarius (horse/man) and Capricorn (fish/goat) are hybrid animals; the name \"zodiac\" indeed means a circle of animals. All twelve signs of the Chinese zodiac are animals.\n\nPlants including trees are important in mythology and religion, where they symbolise themes such as fertility, growth, immortality and rebirth, and may be more or less magical. Thus in Latvian mythology, Austras koks is a tree which grows from the start of the Sun's daily journey across the sky. A different cosmic tree is Yggdrasil, the World tree of Norse mythology, on which Odin hung. Different again is the barnacle tree, believed in the Middle Ages to have barnacles that opened to reveal geese, a story which may perhaps have started from an observation of goose barnacles growing on driftwood. Greek mythology mentions many plants and flowers, where for example the lotus tree bears a fruit that causes a pleasant drowsiness, while moly is a magic herb mentioned by Homer in the \"Odyssey\" with a black root and white blossoms. Magic plants are found, too, in Serbian mythology, where the raskovnik is supposed to be able to open any lock. In Buddhist symbolism, both the lotus and the Bodhi Tree are significant. The lotus is one of the Ashtamangala (eight auspicious signs) shared between Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism, representing the primordial purity of body, speech, and mind, floating above the muddy waters of attachment and desire. The Bodhi Tree is the sacred fig tree under which the Buddha is said to have attained enlightenment; the name is also given to other Bodhi trees thought to have been propagated from the original tree.\n"}
{"id": "24301648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24301648", "title": "Ibrahim al-Asiri", "text": "Ibrahim al-Asiri\n\nIbrahim Hassan Tali al-Asiri (April 18, 1982–2017) was a citizen of Saudi Arabia suspected of being chief bomb-maker of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.\nHe was reported to have been responsible for making the bombs used by his brother Abdullah al-Asiri in his suicide bombing, the 2009 Christmas Day bomb plot, the 2010 cargo plane bomb plot, and the May 8th 2012 Terror Plot.\n\nLittle is known about al-Asiri’s early life; he was born in 1982 into a religious and military family in Riyadh with four brothers and three sisters. Al-Asiri's father is a retired soldier. As of September 2009, he had two surviving brothers.\n\nThe \"Saudi Gazette\" reported that al-Asiri had been imprisoned and released. His imprisonment was a result of an attempt to enter Iraq to join Islamist insurgents. He reportedly left Saudi Arabia for Yemen together with his brother Abdullah al-Asiri — whom he had recruited to al-Qaeda — to join up with al-Qaeda members.\n\nOn February 3, 2009, al-Asiri and Abdullah were named on a list of Saudi Arabia's most wanted terrorist suspects. The list published by the Government of Saudi Arabia listed 85 individuals, 83 of whom were Saudis, and 2 were from Yemen.\n\nOn August 27, 2009, Abdullah blew himself up at the Jeddah palace of Saudi Arabia's Deputy Minister of the Interior prince Mohammed bin Nayef, in attempt to assassinate him after posing as a repentant militant. Abdullah, who had been recruited by Ibrahim as a suicide bomber, used a pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) bomb that his brother had hidden in his rectum. Abdullah died in the attempt, but bin Nayef survived with minor injuries.\n\nal-Asiri is suspected of being the main explosives expert for Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and the bomb-maker responsible for building the bombs in the 2010 cargo plane bomb plot. He is a likely suspect due to his history of creating explosive devices using PETN, including his involvement in the failed Christmas Day bomb plot. Evidence suggested the same person constructed both the Yemen parcel bombs and the device worn by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Nigerian who attempted to ignite the Christmas Day bomb on a plane in 2009. One of the detonators was nearly identical to the one used in the Christmas Day attack.\n\nIn May 2012, American security officials leaked their acquisition of a document describing how to prepare and use liquid explosive implants (surgically implanted explosive devices). The implants would contain no metal parts, making them virtually undetectable by x-rays. Al-Asiri was reported to have been responsible for the development of the new weapon.\n\nIn September 2011, al-Asiri was reported to have possibly been killed by a drone strike together with other AQAP suspects, including American-Yemeni cleric Anwar al-Awlaki. A Yemeni official denied that al-Asiri was killed. On August 13, 2013, it was reported that Al-Asiri may have been seriously wounded by a drone strike which occurred on August 10. A Yemeni official denied that al-Asiri was wounded. Al-Asiri was thought to have possibly been killed in a fire fight on April 20, 2014. Yemeni troops recovered bodies to run DNA tests, but the tests were not a match.\n\nAl-Asiri appeared in a 2016 video making references to Saudi Arabia's recent executions of al-Qaeda militants, thus confirming that he remained alive.\n\nOn August 20, 2018, United States officials announced they were confident that Al-Asiri had been killed by a drone strike in late 2017.\n\nOn 24 March 2011, al-Asiri was added to the U.S. list of terrorists. He was wanted by the government of Saudi Arabia and was the subject of an Interpol Orange Notice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21772022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21772022", "title": "Kaba languages", "text": "Kaba languages\n\nThe Kaba languages, also called \"Sara Kaba\" but not to be confused with the Sara languages, comprise three to five languages of Chad and the Central African Republic. They are Bongo–Bagirmi languages of the Central Sudanic language family. \n\nThe most populous Kaba languages are Kaba Deme and Kaba Naa (Kaba Na, Kaba Nar), spoken by about forty thousand people apiece. Others are Kaba proper (Ta Sara), Kaba/Sara Dunjo, and Kulfa (Kaba So, Kurmi). It is not clear that Naa, Dunjo, and Kaba proper (Ta Sara) are actually distinct languages. Kulfa speakers are ethnically distinct. \n\nThe terms \"Kaba\" and \"Sara\" are generic and often interchangeable, and do not correspond to the somewhat arbitrarily named Kaba and Sara branches of Central Sudanic. Kabba and Kabba Laka, for example, are Sara languages, and many of the Kaba languages go under the names \"Kaba\", \"Sara\", and \"Kaba Sara\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36080259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36080259", "title": "Karagounides", "text": "Karagounides\n\nKaragounides (Greek: Καραγκούνηδες; Singular: Karagounis Greek: Καραγκούνης) is the name of the native people of the western plains of Thessaly, Greece. More specifically, the term is used to refer to the inhabitants of the lowland farming communities of the Karditsa and Trikala regions, and the area around the city of Farsala. \n\nThe older Karagounides still speak the Aeolic dialect of the Greek language.\n"}
{"id": "35921971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35921971", "title": "LGBT liaison officer", "text": "LGBT liaison officer\n\nAn LGBT liaison is any individual employed by an organization or institution as a point of contact, serving as both a spokesperson for the organization to a local LGBT demographics as well as a representative of LGBT interests to the leaders of the organization. LGBT liaisons typically play an advisory role to organizations or government branches.\n\nLGBT Liaison Officers have been appointed since at least 1962, when San Francisco Police Department appointed Elliott Blackstone as the United States' first liaison officer to the \"homophile community\". A pioneer of community policing, Blackstone worked within the police department to change policy and procedures directed against the LGBT community, such as entrapment of gay men in public restrooms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "806238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806238", "title": "Latgalians", "text": "Latgalians\n\nLatgalians, sometimes also Ancient Latvians (, , modern ; variant translations also include Latgallians, Lettigalls or Lettigallians), were an ancient Baltic tribe. \n\nThey likely spoke the Latvian language, which probably became the \"lingua franca\" in present-day Latvia during the Northern Crusades due to their alliance with the crusaders. Latgalians later assimilated the neighbouring tribes, forming the core of modern Latvians.\n\nThe Latgalians were an Eastern Baltic tribe whose origin is little known. In the 5th and 6th centuries they lived in the eastern part of present-day Vidzeme (westwards from the Aiviekste River), and later on in nearly all the territory of that region. In written sources they are mentioned from the 11th century. In the first two decades of the 13th century the (Western) Latgalians allied with German (mainly Saxon) crusaders. Their lands (Eldership of Tālava, Principality of Jersika, Principality of Koknese) as vassal states were incorporated into Livonia.\nIn the 11th century Eastern orthodoxy started to spread in Latgalian lands from Polotsk and Pskov. In 12th century Latgalian lands and their rulers paid tribute to dukes of Polotsk. In 13th century during the Livonian crusade Latgalian elders changed their Eastern orthodoxy for Roman Catholicism and became vassals of Livonian Order. \n\nDue to crusade many regions of Semigallia and Courland were left depopulated so already during the war and also after it part of the Latgalians migrated to those regions. Subsequently between 13th and 16th centuries, they gradually assimilated other Baltic tribes Selonians, Semigallians and Curonians who thus became a part of today's ethnic Latvians.\n\nIn the lands of the Western and the Eastern Latgalians, about 80 flat cemeteries of Western Latgalian origin have been excavated, with more than 2,000 burials uncovered. The first large scale excavations took place in Ludza Odukalns Cemetery in Latgale (1890–1891), where 339 Late Iron Age burials were uncovered. In the excavations at Pildas Nukši Cemetery (in Latgale, 1947–1948), 218 burials were uncovered, dated to the 9th–12th century. \n\nAt the Zvirgzdenes Kivti Cemetery (in Latgale: 1948, 1955–1958) 175 burials from the 7th–12th century were excavated. 315 burials were found at Aglonas Kristapiņi Cemetery (in Latgale; 1928, 1938, 1977–1980, 1984–1987, 1999–2000), in use from the late 8th to 12th century. \n\nĒrgļu Jaunāķēni Cemetery was totally excavated in 1971–1972, with 89 burials being found. At Koknese Cemetery 102 burials from the Late Iron Age were uncovered (1986–1989). In the area of Gauja's Latgallians two cemeteries, Drabešu Liepiņas and Priekuļu Ģūģeri are well excavated too. \n\nArchaeological excavations have also been carried out on the hillforts of Ķente, Koknese, Sārumkalns, Tanīskalns, as well as on other Latgalian sites. Only a few (Western) Latgalian settlements have been excavated. Large scale excavations (1960s–1970s) and reconstruction has been done at the Āraiši lake dwelling site (9th century).\n\nIn Latgale, dating from the 6th–7th centuries, there were flat cemeteries as well as barrow cemeteries. In the 9th–10th century the transition started from flat graves to barrows. There are about 15 excavated Eastern Latgalian barrow cemeteries, but usually only a small number of barrows were investigated. \n\nArchaeologically identified dwelling-sites in Latgale include hill forts, settlements and lake dwellings. Among hillforts, well researched is Jersika Hillfort (excavated in 1939 and from 1990 onwards), forming complex together with Dignāja Hillfort, on the opposite bank of Daugava. Jersika was occupied in the 10th–14th century, probably after the decline of Dignāja, which had been inhabited since the 6th century.\n\nIt is possible that ancestors of the so-called Eastern Latgalians migrated to the territory of present-day Latgale in the 7th and 10th–11th centuries, pushed from their previously inhabited territory by Slavic migration; some archaeologists also believe that the Eastern Latgalians formed from the most ancient East-Baltic inhabitants of Latvia, who lived in central and Eastern parts of Latvia in the \"Roman\" Iron age (1st–4th centuries).\n"}
{"id": "28104599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28104599", "title": "London Anti-Street Harassment campaign", "text": "London Anti-Street Harassment campaign\n\nThe London Anti-Street Harassment campaign (or LASH campaign) is a campaign against the sexual harassment of women on the streets of London.\n\nFounded in 2010 by a 25-year-old named Vicky Simister, the campaign aims to reduce street harassment by calling for a public debate about the issue. It calls for the education of the perpetrators and encourages women to stand up for themselves.\n\nThe main tool of the campaign is its website where it asks people to take action by adding their name to the campaign.\n\nPoliticians such as Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, Diane Abbott, have lent their names to the campaign. It has also garnered media attention, including articles in \"The Observer\" and on BBC Radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "6904344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6904344", "title": "Marinaleda", "text": "Marinaleda\n\nMarinaleda is a Spanish municipality of the province of Seville that belongs to the region of Sierra Sur, located in the basin of Genil, in the autonomous community of Andalusia. It has an area of 24.8 km ² and a population of 2,778 inhabitants according to the 2011 census, with a population density of 112.01 hab./km². It belongs to the judicial party of Estepa.\n\nMarinaleda is a predominantly agricultural municipality and this makes up the bulk of its economy. It is noted for its left-leaning principles based on a leftist ideology led by Juan Manuel Sánchez Gordillo, mayor since 1979 and a member of the Unitarian Candidacy of Workers (CUT). Local workers and peasants, organised in a common struggle, have achieved a high rate of development and practically full employment for all its people. The development of an alternative economic model to capitalism has achieved notable results, even during the economic crisis that began in 2008.\n\nCritics claim that this economic and social progress is due in part to the fact that almost 66% of the income received by the City of Marinaleda is from administrative superiors such as the state, the autonomous community, and the Provincial Council of Seville. In reality, Marinaleda receives less than the average remittance received by municipalities in Andalusia (in 2011 it received around 6.61% less than the regional average).\n\nMarinaleda is part of the \"Network of Municipalities for the Third Republic\" and the tricolor flag is present in civil buildings.\n\nThe town is located at an altitude of 205 meters and lies 108 kilometers east of the provincial capital, Seville. Marinaleda belongs to the comarca of Estepa and is situated between this latter town and Écija, in the eastern part of the province of Seville, in the basin of the Genil river. Its geographical coordinates are .\n\nThe first indications of human settlement in the territory now covered by the Marinaleda municipality go back to the late Neolithic and Chalcolithic periods, about 5,000 years ago. Stone tools and traces of seeds and dwelling places have been found.\n\nThere was a major Roman presence, and some date the foundation of the village to this period. The Roman road connecting the villages of Astigi (present-day Écija) and Ostippo (Estepa) ran by Marinaleda, and there have been many discoveries from the period.\n\nThe Arab presence is visible in monuments such as the Towers of Gallape and the fortress of Alhonoz. The region was conquered by the Christian monarchs in the 13th century, and Marinaleda came under the rule of the religious Order of Santiago. Philip II granted the village to the first Marquess of Estepa, and it would remain under this ownership until manors were dissolved in the 19th century.\n\nMarinaleda then grew as a population centre due to the influx of day labourers working for large landowners, especially the Marquesses of Estepa. There is evidence that, in 1751, there were 60 houses lived in by landless labourers, who earned two reals for a full day's work.\n\nIn the 18th century, Marinaleda had three clergymen and a shop belonging to the Marquess of Peñaflor, who lived in Écija. The main economic activity was rain-fed agriculture.\n\nDuring the 19th century in Marinaleda and neighbouring territories, there were several groups of bandits involving residents of the municipality. Notable groups include those commanded by José María Hinojosa Cobacho, \"\", \"El Pernales\", and Juan Caballero.\n\nIn 1931, the population of Marinaleda was 2,318, of whom only 317 were entitled to vote. The elections of 12 April that year were won by monarchist supporters, whereas those of 31 May were won by republicans. The final elections of the Republican period, on 16 February 1936, were won by the Popular Front.\n\nAt the start of the Civil War, troops supporting the coup assassinated the mayor, Vicente Cejas Moreno, his son, and at least 30 other residents. In the postwar period, the population suffered great poverty, hunger, and repression. The poor survived by gleaning olives and acorns from the fields of the estates.\n\nThe industrialization of Spain beginning in the 1960s encouraged emigration from Marinaleda to industrial areas, especially Catalonia, as well as to other countries such as Germany, France, and Switzerland.\n\nUpon the death of Francisco Franco in 1975, the dictatorship he had established in Spain gave way to a representative democracy. In 1977, the (Union of Farm Workers) was founded in Marinaleda. The following year, a struggle for land began with a two-day occupation of the Bocatinaja estate, between Osuna and Los Corrales.\n\nThe first post-Franco municipal elections were held in 1979. The (Workers' Unity Collective) won in Marinaleda, gaining 9 of the 11 council seats. The new council replaced street names associated with the victors of the Civil War by names of left-wing heroes. For example, Muñoz Grandes street became Che Guevara street, the Plaza of Spain became the People's Plaza, and the Plaza of Francisco Franco was renamed after Salvador Allende.\n\nIn 1980, 700 people staged a 13-day hunger strike, demanding better pay and stricter regulation of the old system of employment. The success of this action led to intensification of the land struggle, with further occupations of large landowners' estates under the slogan \"Land to those who work on it\". In 1984, the Cordobilla marsh was occupied for 30 days to demand irrigation for a farm called , property of the Duke of Infantado, facilitating its later expropriation.\n\nIn 1985, the occupation of estates increased in number by at least 100, as well as in length, extending to over 90 days. This led to many legal actions.\n\nIn 1991, a 1,200-hectare tract of El Humoso farm was handed over to Marinaleda for the use of the population. Demonstrations demanding a life of dignity increased between 1992 and 1994, with many occupations of government buildings and institutions.\n\nIn 1997, irrigation was extended to the whole of the El Humoso, and the Marinaleda S.C.A. A cooperative was founded to cultivate the farm collectively. Three years later, a food processing plant was set up, supplied by the raw materials of the cooperative: piquillo pepper, beans, artichokes, and olives. An oil press was also built. Production continued to increase, and employment along with it.\n\nThe economic crisis that began in 2008 affected the European Union by 2010, particularly its southern countries. While 30% of the active population in Andalusia was without work, Marinaleda had full employment.\n\nThe social and political system that has been implemented in the community, and the good results obtained in terms of economic development and well-being of the inhabitants, has brought Marinaleda to the attention of the media in Spain and abroad.\n\nThe \"Social Democracy\" tab on the town's website states the following:\n\nFor over 30 years, the mayor of Marinaleda has been Juan Manuel Sánchez Gordillo of the United Left Party. Gordillo has anointed Marinaleda a \"utopia for peace\", which has no municipal police (saving $350,000 a year). Additionally, political murals and revolutionary slogans adorn the town's whitewashed walls and streets are named after Latin American leftists. Every few weeks, the town hall declares a Red Sunday over a bullhorn and volunteers clean the streets or do odd jobs.\n\nMarinaleda has a long tradition of sociopolitical struggle by agricultural labourers, which has decisively influenced the attainment of diverse political and social advances. Marinaleda was ruled by CUT-BAI (Collective for the Unity of Workers - Andalusian Left Bloc) from 1979 until 1986, when CUT-BAI joined United Left (IU), which has since been the ruling party, although most of the members of IU's local branch are basically members of CUT-BAI.\n\nIzquierda Unida (IU)\n\n\nPartido Socialista Obrero Español-Andalucía (PSOE-A)\n\n\nThe town operates a farming cooperative with 2,650 workers. Marinaleda is surrounded by sloping olive groves and features a farm. The farm is located seven miles (11 km) north of Marinaleda, and grows labour-intensive crops like artichokes, hot peppers, broccoli, and broad beans, as well as wheat.\n\nMarinaleda represents a local exception of the national housing crisis caused by real estate speculation. The municipality was the subject of national news when it became known that one could own a house in this town for no more than 15 euros per month through the self-building program.\n\nThe Ayuntamiento (local government) of Marinaleda bought and expropriated thousands of square metres of land, now communal property, for the construction of new houses. Land, building materials, and architectural plans are provided to the self-builder through public grants. Free assistance from professional builders is also provided. The hours spent by the resident on construction (if any) are deducted from the total cost. Prospective owners usually donate about 450 days of their work to the construction. Finally, a monthly payment of up to 15,52 euros is arranged with the contractors and the government for the resident to achieve ownership. To prevent speculation, citizens are prohibited from selling their homes.\n\nMarinaleda's citizens reside in a colony of neat houses, each with three bedrooms, one bathroom, and a garden of 100 m, allowing for future expansions. In recent years 350 single-family homes have been built according to this scheme, even though the town has fewer than 3,000 inhabitants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3336451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3336451", "title": "Nung Rawang", "text": "Nung Rawang\n\nThe Rawang people are an ethnic group who inhabit far northern Kachin State of Burma (Myanmar). There are one D'rung family and several Anung families found among Lisu tribe people in Arunachal Pradesh in India. However,Nung rawang people and Anung (Lisu) people are two different groups. Anung people speak and write in their own language. The Anung population mixed with Lisu tribe people in China is estimated about 20000. According to cultural research and their own oral traditions, the Nung-Rawang are most likely Mongolian descendants who moved south from the Mongolian steppes to the 3 river region (Mekong,Yantzi,Salween)of China. During the second millennium,the Nung-Rawang migrated south west into the Himalayas at the top of Burma, seeking fertile farm lands. They settled in some of the most remote valleys and mountains in all of Burma. The Nung-Rawang are a proud, peaceful, industrious, agriculturally based mountain people known for their stability, hospitality, and colourful traditions. Living in the beautiful and isolated regions of northern Burma, they have also become prosperous through the plentiful supplies of jade and gold in their region. During the British colonial period, their very existence was thought to be a myth, as incoherent reports of \"pygmy tribes\" in the mountains of north Burma surfaced from time to time. The Drung, a sub tribe of the Nung-Rawang are short in stature, and are known for their crossbow hunting skills, and an extensive anthropological study has been initiated on this remote ethnic group by Dr. P. Christiaan Klieger of the California Academy of Sciences, since 2001.\n\nNung Rawang and Rawang are different, presently. Both the Nung and Rawang have their own dialects. Nung is not usually associated with the Rawang, as they have different cultures.Most of Nung tribe people live closely with Lisu tribe people. There are a few Nung families living in India together with the Lisu tribe people and about 2000 population in Myanmar among Lisu villages. They have no their own churches even thought they now possess their own bible book in their own language.\n"}
{"id": "16039511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16039511", "title": "Prostitution in Afghanistan", "text": "Prostitution in Afghanistan\n\nProstitution in Afghanistan is illegal, with punishments ranging from 5 to 15 years imprisonment. The country is deeply religious and one of the most conservative countries in the world, where sex outside marriage is against the law. Despite the restrictions prostitution activities are reported to be thriving in the capital Kabul as well as in the Mazar-e-Sharif area in the north of the country. Mazar-e-Sharif has become unofficial capital of prostitution in Afghanistan. So much so that 'going to Mazar' has become a byword for Afghan men looking to pay for sex.\n\nSmall number of women from Iran, Pakistan, Philippines, Tajikistan, China, and Uganda and other countries are imported for prostitution into Afghanistan. According to the Afghan Interior Ministry's department of sexual crimes, about 2 to 3 prostitution arrests were made each week in Afghanistan between 2007 and 2008.\n\nUnder the former Taliban regime, prostitution existed clandestinely in Kabul, despite being outlawed due to the government following a very strict interpretation of the Islamic Sharia law. Melissa Ditmore reports in \"Encyclopedia of Prostitution and Sex Work\" that during their rule the traffic in women for prostitution thrived. Prostitutes mostly worked from their houses termed as Qalas and in Kabul there were 25 to 30 hidden brothels.\n\nThe practice of prostitution in Afghanistan is illegal, with punishments ranging from 5 to 15 years imprisonment and 80 lashes if unmarried. Married prostitutes are considered adulterers under the Afghan penal code and subject to execution. Prostitution was even more strictly prohibited under the rule of the Taliban, with those thought of having extramarital sex risking extrajudicial killing by cultural fundamentalists and Islamists.\n\n\nProstitution in the country is mostly driven by poverty and displacement. Prohibition for women to work under Taliban rule meant some street children were forced into the trade in order to make a living. According to the 2010 Trafficking in Persons Report from the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, females from Iran, Tajikistan, China, and possibly Uganda and other places are forced into prostitution in Afghanistan.\n\nWomen from Tajikistan are believed to be trafficked through Afghanistan to other countries for prostitution. Trafficked Iranian women transit Afghanistan en route to Pakistan. Afghan women as well as boys and girls among recently returned refugees from neighboring countries were reported to be forced into prostitution, a number of children were also reported being sold into it by their family.\n\nThe number of prostitutes in Afghanistan is small. A 2007 University of Manitoba report suggests that there may be about 900 female prostitutes in Kabul, which is a city with a population of over 3 million. UNAIDS estimated there were 12,500 prostitutes in the country in 2016. About two to three prostitution arrests were made between 2007 and 2008 each week in Afghanistan, according to the Afghan Interior Ministry's department of sexual crimes.\n\nAccording to Afghan traditions, the shame of prostitution is so intense that sometimes those involved in such activities are assassinated by the many religious extremists found throughout the country or in some cases by family members.\n\nBrothels, sometimes run by foreigners, sometimes with links to larger criminal networks, manage to exist in several cities of the country by paying bribes to police officers who come to raid them. There are reports of a couple of brothels in northern Afghanistan, in and around the Mazar-i-Sharif area of Balkh Province.\n\nThe capital Kabul saw an extraordinary number of Chinese brothels (\"Chinese restaurants\") opened in the four years following the fall of the Taliban regime. Four years later a series of police raids reduced the brothels to 3 which caters, according to Reuters, to a mainly high-income international clientele as Afghan aren't generally accepted in or, according to USA Today, to mostly Afghan men. \n\"Nikah mut'ah\" is a fixed-term marriage practiced mainly in Shia Islam, but is rejected by the majority Sunni Muslims (see misyar marriage, nikah urfi, nikah halala). There are also some recent reports about \"Mut'ah\" (\"Fegha\" in Persian language) beginning to be practiced in Mazar-i-Sharif. \n\nLike in many other Islamic countries, it is a major taboo in Afghan culture for women to dance in front of men. Males and females are segregated during weddings and other parties. As a form of adult entertainment, young males dress as females and dance in front of men to make money. \"Bacha bereesh\" (meaning \"boys without beards\" in Persian language) occasionally dance to entertain men at certain parties, especially in the north parts of Afghanistan. Powerful patrons sometimes sexually exploit the dancers.\n\nThe 'Curse of 39' refers to the belief in some parts of Afghanistan that the number 39 is cursed or a badge of shame as it is purportedly linked with prostitution.\n\nThe cause of the number's undesirability is unclear, but it has widely been claimed to have been associated with a pimp, allegedly living in the western city of Herat, who was nicknamed \"39\" after the registration plate of his expensive car and the number of his apartment. The number is said to translate into \"morda-gow\", literally meaning \"dead cow\" but a well-known slang term for a pimp. Others have blamed corrupt police officials for spreading the rumour in order to charge between $200–$500 to change a \"39\" plate.\n\nVehicle registration plates incorporating the number are seen as so undesirable that vehicles and apartments bearing the numerals are said to be virtually unsellable in the capital, Kabul. The drivers of such vehicles have reported receiving abuse and derision from pedestrians and other drivers, and some have had their registration plates altered to disguise the numbers. One such driver, Zalmay Ahmadi, told \"The Guardian\": \"When I drive around all the other cars flash their lights, beep their horns and people point at me. All my classmates now call me Colonel 39.\"\n\nAfghanistan is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Internal trafficking is more prevalent than transnational trafficking. Some Afghan families knowingly sell their children into sex trafficking, including for bacha bazi, including some government officials and security forces. There are reports that some law enforcement officials, prosecutors, and judges accept bribes from or use their relationships with perpetrators of bacha bazi to allow them to escape punishment. Afghan returnees from Pakistan and Iran and internally displaced Afghans are vulnerable to exploitation in sex trafficking.\n\nMen, women, and children in Afghanistan often pay intermediaries to assist them in finding employment, primarily in Iran, Pakistan, India, Europe, or North America; some of these intermediaries force Afghans into prostitution. Afghan women and girls are subjected to sex trafficking primarily in Pakistan, Iran, and India. There were reports of women and girls from the Philippines, Pakistan, Iran, Tajikistan, Sri Lanka, and China subjected to sex trafficking in Afghanistan.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Afghanistan as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "23744482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23744482", "title": "Public Health Act 1866", "text": "Public Health Act 1866\n\nThe Public Health Act 1866 was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom. The Act allowed the formation of drainage districts and enabled the provision of better house drainage. The second part of the Act dealt with nuisances and stated that it was the duty of councils to locate nuisances and remove them.\n"}
{"id": "11303444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11303444", "title": "Romani diaspora", "text": "Romani diaspora\n\nThe Roma people have a number of distinct populations, the largest being the Roma and the Iberian Calé or Caló, who reached Anatolia and the Balkans about the early 12th century, from a migration out of northwestern India beginning about 600 years earlier. They settled in present-day Turkey, Greece, Serbia, Romania, Croatia, Moldova, Bulgaria, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Hungary and Slovakia, by order of volume, and Spain. From the Balkans, they migrated throughout Europe and, in the nineteenth and later centuries, to the Americas. The Romani population in the United States is estimated at more than one million.\n\nThere is no official or reliable count of the Romani populations worldwide. Many Romani refuse to register their ethnic identity in official censuses for fear of discrimination. Others are descendants of intermarriage with local populations and no longer identify only as Romani, or not at all.\n\nAs of the early 2000s, an estimated 4 to 9 million Romani people lived in Europe and Asia Minor. although some Romani organizations estimate numbers as high as 14 million.\nSignificant Romani populations are found in the Balkan peninsula, in some Central European states, in Spain, France, Russia, and Ukraine. The total number of Romani living outside Europe are primarily in the Middle East and North Africa and in the Americas, and are estimated in total at more than two million. Some countries do not collect data by ethnicity.\n\nThe Romani people identify as distinct ethnicities based in part on territorial, cultural and dialectal differences, and self-designation. The main branches are:\n\n\nThe Romani have additional internal distinctions, with groups identified as Bashaldé; Churari; Luri; Ungaritza; Lovari (Lovara) from Hungary; Machvaya (Machavaya, Machwaya, or Macwaia) from Serbia; Romungro from Hungary and neighbouring Carpathian countries; Erlides (also \"Yerlii\" or \"Arli\"); Xoraxai (Horahane) from Greece/Turkey; Boyash (Lingurari, Ludar, Ludari, Rudari, or Zlătari) from Romanian/Moldovan miners; Ursari from Romanian/Moldovan bear-trainers; Argintari from silversmiths; Aurari from goldsmiths; Florari from florists; and Lăutari from singers.\n\nThis is a table of Romani people by country.\nThe list does include the Dom people, who are often subsumed under \"gypsies\".\n\nThe official number of Romani people is disputed in many countries; some do not collect data by ethnicity; in others, Romani individuals may refuse to register their ethnic identity for fear of discrimination, or have assimilated and do not identify exclusively as Romani. In some cases, governments consult Romani organizations for data.\n\nA significant proportion of the world's Romanies live in Central and Eastern Europe, often in squatter communities with very high unemployment, while only some are fully integrated in the society. However, in some cases—notably the Kalderash clan in Romania, who work as traditional coppersmiths—they have prospered. Some Romani families choose to immigrate to Western Europe now that many of the former Communist countries like the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria have entered the European Union and free travel is permitted. During the 1970s and 1980s many Romanies from former Yugoslavia migrated to Western European countries, especially to Austria, Germany and Sweden.\n\nRomani people constitute the third largest ethnic group (after Bulgarians and Turks) in Bulgaria, they are referred to as \"цигани\" (\"cigani\") or \"роми\" (\"romi\"). According to the 2001 census, there were 370,908 Roma in Bulgaria, equivalent to 4.7% of the country's total population.\n\nThe Romani people of Greece are called Arlije or Erlides. The number of Roma in Greece is currently estimated to be between 200,000 and 350,000 people.\n\nIn the 2011 census, 315,583 people called themselves Roma. Various estimations put the number of Roma people to be between 500,000 and 1,000,000 people, or 8-10% of Hungary's population.\n\nThere is a sizable minority of Romani people in Romania, known as \"Ţigani\" in Romanian and, recently, as \"Rromi\", of 621,573 people or 3.3% of the total population (2011 census). There exist a variety of governmental and non-governmental programs for integration and social advancement, including the National Agency for the Roma and Romania's participation in the Decade of Roma Inclusion. Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, and Spain participate in these programs. As an officially recognized ethnic minority, the Romani people also have guaranteed representation in Parliament.\n\nIn Russian the Romani people are referred to as \"tzigane\". The largest ethnic group of Romani people in Russia are the Ruska Roma. They are also the largest group in Belarus. They are adherents of the Russian Orthodox faith.\n\nThey came to Russia in the 18th century from Poland, and their language includes Polish, German, and Russian words.\n\nThe Ruska Roma were nomadic horse traders and singers. They traveled during the summer and stayed in cottages of Russian peasants during the winter. They paid for their lodging with money, or with the work of their horses.\n\nIn 1812, when Napoleon I invaded Russia, the Romani diasporas of Moscow and Saint Petersburg gave large sums of money and good horses for the Russian army. Many young Romani men took part in the war as uhlans.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, Rusko Rom Nikolai Shishkin created a Romani theatre troupe. One of its plays was in the Romani language.\n\nDuring World War II some Ruska Roma entered the army, by call-up and as volunteers. They took part in the war as soldiers, officers, infantrymen, tankmen, artillerymen, aviators, drivers, paramedical workers, and doctors. Some teenagers, old men and adult men were also partisans. Romani actors, singers, musicians, dancers (mostly women) performed for soldiers in the front line and in hospitals. A huge number of Roma, including many of the Ruska Roma, died or were murdered in territories occupied by the enemy, in battles, and in the blockade of Leningrad.\n\nAfter World War II, music of the Ruska Roma became very popular. Romen Theatre, Romani singers and ensembles prospered. All Romanies living in the USSR began to perceive Ruska Roma culture as the basic Romani culture.\n\nRomanies in Spain are generally known as \"Gitanos\" and tend to speak Caló which is basically Andalusian Spanish with a large number of Romani loanwords. Estimates of the Spanish Gitano population range between 600,000 and 1,500,000 with the Spanish government estimating between 650,000 and 700,000. Semi-nomadic Quinqui consider themselves apart from the Gitanos.\n\nThe Romanies in Portugal are known as \"Ciganos\", and their presence goes back to the second half of the 15th century. Early on, due to their socio-cultural difference and nomadic style of live, the Ciganos were the object of fierce discrimination and persecution.\n\nThe number of \"Ciganos\" in Portugal is difficult to estimate, since there are no official statistics about race or ethnic categories. According to data from Council of Europe's European Commission against Racism and Intolerance there are about 40,000 to 50,000 spread all over the country. According to the Portuguese branch of Amnesty International, there are about 30,000 to 50,000.\n\nRomanies are generally known in spoken French as \"Manouches\" or \"Tsiganes\". \"Romanichels\" or \"Gitans\" are considered pejorative and \"Bohémiens\" is outdated. The French National Gendarmerie tends to refer to \"MENS\" (\"Minorités Ethniques Non-Sédentarisées\"), a neutral administrative term meaning Traveling Ethnic Minorities. Traditionally referred to as \"gens du voyage\" (\"traveling people\"), a term still occasionally used by the media, they are today generally referred to as Rroms. By law, French municipalities over 5,000 inhabitants have the obligation to allocate a piece of land to Romani travellers when they arrive.\n\nApproximately 500,000 Roma live in France as part of established communities. Additionally, the French Roma rights group FNASAT reports that there are at least 12,000 Roma, primarily from Romania and Bulgaria, living in illegal urban camps throughout the country. French authorities often close down these encampments. In 2009, the government returned more than 10,000 Roma illegal immigrants to Romania and Bulgaria. In the Summer of 2012, with mounting criticism of their treatment of the Roma, French key ministers met for emergency talks on the handling of an estimated 15,000 Roma living in camps across France. They proposed to lift restrictions on migrants (including Roma) from Bulgaria and Romania who were working in France.\n\nRomani in Italy are generally known as \"zingaro\" (with the plural \"zingari\"), a word also used to describe a scruffy or slovenly person or a tinker. The word is likely of Greek origin meaning \"untouchables\", compare the modern Greek designations Τσιγγάνοι (Tsingánoi), Αθίγγανοι (Athínganoi). People often use the term \"Rom\", although the people prefer \"Romani\" (in Italian \"Romanì\"), which is little used. They are sometimes called \"nomads,\" although many live in settled communities.\n\nThe Kale (or \"Kaale\") Romani of Finland are known in Finnish as \"mustalaiset\" ('blacks', cf. , 'black') or \"romanit\". Approximately 10,000 Romani live in Finland, mostly in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. In Finland, many Romani people wear their traditional dress in daily life.\n\nRomani in Sweden were formerly known as \"zigenare\" for Roma and \"tattare\" for Scandinavian travellers. More recently the term \"romer\" has been adopted as a collective designation referring to both groups, with \"resande\" (travellers) also referring to the latter only. Approximately 120,000 Romani live in Sweden, many of them descended from Finnish Kale who immigrated in the 1960s. The latter, particularly the women, often wear traditional dress.\n\nThe Romani in Sweden have periodically suffered discrimination at the hands of the state. For example, the state has taken children into foster care, or sterilised Romani women without their consent. Prejudice against Romanies is widespread, with most stereotypes portraying the Romani as welfare cheats, shoplifters, and con artists. For example, in 1992, Bert Karlsson, a leader of Ny Demokrati, said, \"Gypsies are responsible for 90% of crime against senior citizens\" in Sweden. He had earlier tried to ban Romani from his \"Skara Sommarland\" theme park, as he thought they were thieves. Some shopkeepers, employers and landlords continue to discriminate against Romani.\n\nThe situation is improving. Several Romani organisations promote education about Romani rights and culture in Sweden. Since 2000, Romani \"chib\" is an officially recognised minority language in Sweden. The Swedish government has established a special standing Delegation for Romani Issues. A Romani folk high school has been founded in Gothenburg.\n\nRomani in England are generally known as \"Romanichals\" or Romani Gypsies, while their Welsh equivalent are known as \"Kale\". They have been recorded in the UK since at least the early 16th century. Records of Romani people in Scotland date to the early 16th century. Some emigrated to the British colonies and to the United States during the centuries. They may number up to 120,000. There is also a sizable population of East European Roma, who immigrated into the UK in the late 1990s/early 2000s, and also after EU expansion in 2004.\n\nThe first recorded reference to \"the Egyptians\" appeared to be in 1492, during the reign of James IV, when an entry in the Book of the Lord High Treasurer records a payment \"to Peter Ker of four shillings, to go to the king at Hunthall, to get letters subscribed to the 'King of Rowmais'\". Two days after, a payment of twenty pounds was made at the king's command to the messenger of the 'King of Rowmais'.\n\nAccording to the Scottish Traveller Education Programme, an estimated 20,000 Scottish Gypsies/Travellers live in Scotland. It is not known how many of this number are ethnic Romani, rather than other Travellers. The society and government recognize that there are several ethnic groups, each with different histories and cultures.\n\nThe term \"gypsy\" in the United Kingdom has come to mean anyone who travels with no fixed abode (regardless of ethnic group). This use has often been synonymous with \"\" , now considered a derogatory term. In some parts of the UK, the Romani are commonly called \"tinkers\" because of their traditional trade as tinsmiths.\n\nOne route taken by the medieval proto-Romani cut across Persia and Asia Minor to Europe. Numerous Romani continue to live in Asia Minor. Other Romani populations in the Middle East are the result of modern migrations from Europe. Also found in the Middle East are various groups of the Dom people, often identified as \"gypsies.\" They are derived from a migration out of northwestern India beginning about 600 years earlier.\n\nHistorians estimate that the first immigrants came between 1322 and 1400, when Cyprus was under the rule of the Lusignan (Crusader) kings. These Roma were part of a general movement from Asia Minor to Europe. Those who landed on Cyprus probably came across from the Crusader colonies on the eastern Mediterranean coast (present-day Lebanon and Israel).\n\nThere is no evidence suggesting one cause for the Roma to leave mainland Asia, but historical events caused widespread upheaval and may have prompted a move to the island. In 1347 the Black Death had reached Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire; in 1390 the Turks defeated the Greek kingdom in Asia; and ten years later, the Battle of Aleppo marked the advance of the Mongols under Tamerlane.\n\nThe first surviving written record of Roma in Cyprus is from 1468. In the \"Chronicle of Cyprus\" compiled by Florio Bustron, the Cingani are said to have paid tax to the royal treasury, at that time under King James II. Later, in 1549, the French traveler Andre Theret found \"les Egyptiens ou Bohemiens\" in Cyprus and other Mediterranean islands. He noted their simple way of life, supported by the production of nails by the men and belts by the women, which they sold to the local population.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Cyprus was on a regular shipping route from Bari, Italy to the Holy Land. A second immigration likely took place some time after the Turks dominated the island in 1571. Some Kalderash came in the 19th century.\n\nCurrently, Roma in Cyprus refer to themselves as Kurbet, and their language as \"Kurbetcha\", although most no longer speak it. Christian or Greek-speaking Roma are known as Mantides.\n\nAccording to the Council of Europe there are 1000-1500 (0,16%) Romanis living in Cyprus .\n\n(\"For additional names of Roma in Greek-speaking Cyprus, see Roma in Greece\")\n\nSome Eastern European Romani are known to have arrived in Israel in the late 1940s and early 1950s. The Romani community in Israel has grown since the 1990s, as some Roma immigrated from states of the former Soviet Union.\n\nA community anciently related to the Romani are the Dom people. Some live in Israel, the Palestinian territories and in neighboring countries.\n\nIt is estimated that there are 5,000 Romanis or Domaris in Lebanon . The language of Romanis is called Domari in Lebanon and neighboring countries. There is evidence that child labor was prevalent in Romani communities in Lebanon.\n\nRomani people in Turkey are generally known as \"Çingene\", \"Çingen\", or \"Çingan\", as well as \"Çingit\" (West Black Sea region), Cono (South Turkey), \"Kıptî\" (meaning Coptic), Şopar (Kırklareli), \"Roman\" (İzmir) and \"Gipleri\" (derived from the term \"Egyptian\"). Since the late twentieth century, some have started to recognize and cherish their Romani background as well. Music, blacksmithing and other handicrafts are their main occupations.\n\nMost Romani populations overseas were founded in the 19th century by emigration from Europe.\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century, the first major Romani group, the Romanichal from Great Britain, arrived in North America, although some had also immigrated during the colonial era. They settled primarily in the United States, which was then more established than most English-speaking communities in Upper Canada. Later immigrants also settled in Canada.\n\nThe ancestors of the majority of the contemporary local Romani population in the United States, who are Eastern European Roma, started to immigrate during the second half of the century, drawn by opportunities for industrial jobs. Among these groups were the Romani-speaking peoples such as the Kalderash, Machvaya, Lovari and Churari, as well as groups who had adopted the Romanian language, such as the Boyash (Ludari). Most arrived either directly from Romania after their liberation from slavery between 1840 and 1850, or after a short-period in neighboring states, such as Russia, Austria-Hungary, or Serbia. The Bashalde arrived from what is now Slovakia (then Austria-Hungary) about the same time. Many settled in the major industrial cities of the era.\n\nImmigration from Eastern Europe decreased drastically in the post-World War II era, during the years of Communist rule. It resumed in the 1990s after the fall of Communism. Romani organizations estimate that there are about one million Romani in the United States.\n\nAccording to the 2006 Canadian census, there were 2,590 Canadians of full or partial Romani descent.\n\nAccording to data collected by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía, the Romani in Mexico numbered 15,850, however, the total number is likely larger.\n\nThe Romani people in Argentina number more than 300,000. They traditionally support themselves by trading used cars, and selling their jewelry, while traveling all over the country.\n\nRomani groups settled the Brazilian states of Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais primarily in the late 19th century. The Machvaya came from present-day Serbia (then Austria-Hungary), the Kalderash from Romania, the Lovari from Italy, and the Horahane from Greece and Turkey. Initially, the Romani in Brazil were believed to be descended from ancestors who were exiled in the colony by the Portuguese Inquisition but more has been learned about the peoples. The current population of ethnic Romani is estimated at 600,000. Most are descended from ethnic Kalderash, Macwaia, Rudari, Horahane, and Lovara.\n\nA sizeable population of Romani people live in Chile. As they continue their traditions and language, they are a distinct minority who are widely recognized. Many continue semi-nomadic lifestyles, traveling from city to city and living in small tented communities. A Chilean telenovela called \"Romane\" was based on the Romani. It portrayed their lifestyles, ideas and occasionally featured the Chilean-born actors speaking in the Romani language, with subtitles in Spanish.\n\nThe first Romani in Colombia are thought to have come from Spain and were formerly known as \"Egipcios\" settling primarily in the Departments of Santander, Norte de Santander, Atlántico, Tolima, Antioquia, Sucre, Bogotá D.C. and in smaller numbers in the Departments of Bolívar, Nariño and Valle del Cauca.\n\nIn 1999, the Colombian Government recognized the Romani people as a national ethnic minority, and today, around 8,000 Roma are present in Colombia. Their language has been officially recognized as a minority language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24135980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24135980", "title": "Rural Sociological Society", "text": "Rural Sociological Society\n\nThe Rural Sociological Society (RSS), is a professional social science association that promotes the generation, application, and dissemination of sociological knowledge. The Society seeks to enhance the quality of rural life, communities, and the environment. It was officially established on December 29, 1937 in order to promote the development of rural sociology through teaching, research and extension. Membership in the RSS includes persons professionally employed in the field of rural sociology, or those interested in the objectives of the Society. RSS holds annual meetings in different locations every year.\n\nThe core activities of the Rural Sociological Society are our peer-reviewed journal, Rural Sociology, our annual conference, and support for communities of scholars concerned with specific rural topics. Through these activities, the RSS has provided leadership in scholarship, policies, and advocacy. Since its founding in 1937, the RSS has traced changes in rural life and livelihoods, demography, community structures and economies, technologies, environmental conditions, and agriculture and food systems.\n\nBefore the RSS, those interested in the discipline met as the Rural Sociology Section of the American Sociological Society, which later became the American Sociological Association. The meeting at which the formation of the RSS was approved had not started with that in mind. Rather, a committee of section members appointed previously presented a report that supported continued association with the parent organization, although one of the five members submitted a minority report calling for separation. After substantial discussion, a vote to establish a separate organization carried. That same day, a provisional constitution and by-laws were established by the founding RSS members; they still guide activities, although both have been amended through the years as membership and issues have changed.\n\nThe decision to form the Rural Sociological Society in 1937 was not totally unexpected. Discussion of sponsoring an organization of rural sociologists occurred in the 1920s and was widespread in the mid-1930s. Indeed, concerns with opportunities to bring topics related to rural issues before larger audiences led to the publication of the first volume of the quarterly journal, \"Rural Sociology\", in 1936. This had come about only because of the support of members of the Rural Sociology Section, both in terms of financing and editing; issues in the first two volumes had \"Published by the Rural Sociology Section [of the] American Sociological Society\" on the covers. That changed in 1938, when Rural Sociology became the official journal of the RSS; it has been published continuously since.\n\n"}
{"id": "6808269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6808269", "title": "Saraveca language", "text": "Saraveca language\n\nSaraveca is an extinct Arawakan language once spoken in Bolivia by the Sarave. It is said to be the only language with a numeral system based exclusively on five, although quinary systems exist. To some extent this is also an areal feature of other South American languages; many form their numbers 6–9 as \"five + one\", \"five + two\" and so on.\n"}
{"id": "6274529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6274529", "title": "Serbs of Romania", "text": "Serbs of Romania\n\nThe Serbs of Romania (, ) are a recognized ethnic minority numbering 18,076 people (0.1%) according to the 2011 census. The community is concentrated in western Romania, in the Romanian part of the Banat region (divided with Serbia), where they constitute absolute majority in two communes and relative majority in one other.\n\nSlavic presence is attested in Romania since the Early Middle Ages. The Avar Khaganate was the dominant power of the Carpathian Basin between around 567 and 803. Most historians agree that Slavs and Bulgars, together with the remnants of the Avars, and possibly with Vlachs (or Romanians), inhabited the Banat region after the fall of the khaganate. Place names of Slavic origin recorded already in the Middle Ages show the early presence of a Slavic-speaking population.\n\nFrom the late 14th- to the beginning of the 16th century a large number of Serbs lived in Wallachia and Moldavia. Following Ottoman expansion in the 15th century, Serb mass migrations ensued into Pannonia. Serbian Orthodox monasteries began to be built in the area from the 15th century, including Kusić and Senđurađ built by \"despot\" Jovan Branković, and in the 16th century including Bezdin and Hodoš built by the Jakšić family. In the Ottoman period, some thirty Serbian Orthodox monasteries were built in the territory of Romania.\n\nOttoman pressure traditionally forced members of several South Slavic communities to seek refuge in Wallachia - although under Ottoman rule as well, the latter was always subject to less requirements than regions to south of the Danube.\n\nThe Serbian Uprising in Banat (1594) included territories that are part of modern Romania. There were reprisals, contemporary sources speaking of \"the living envied the dead\". After the crushing of the uprising in Banat, many Serbs migrated to Transylvania under the leadership of Bishop Teodor; the territory towards Ineu and Teiuș was settled, where Serbs had lived since earlier – the Serbs had their eparchies, opened schools, founded churches and printing houses.\n\nSerbs-proper probably constituted the vast majority of mercenary troops known as \"seimeni\", given that their nucleus is attested to have been formed by \"Serb \"seimeni\"\" (as it was during their revolt in 1655), and that the rule of Prince Matei Basarab had witnessed the arrival of a large group of Serb refugees.\n\nThe Great Migrations of the Serbs in 1690 and 1737–39 led to additional settlement of Serbs.\n\nThese groups are, however, hard to distinguish one from another in early Wallachian references, as the term \"Serbs\" is regularly applied to all Southern Slavs, no matter where they might have originated. This only changed in the 19th century, through a transition made clear by an official statistic of 1830, which reads \"census of how many Serbs are resident here in the town of Ploiești, all of them Bulgarians\" (Giurescu, p. 269).\n\nThe Bărăgan deportations (1951–56) saw minorities (including Serbs) from the Banat region bordering Yugoslavia deported to south-eastern Romania due to the deteriorating Yugoslav–USSR relations and the perceived \"elements who present a danger through their presence in the area\" to the Romanian Communist regime.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, there was 18,076 people of the Serb minority, down from 22,561 people in 2002.\n\nIn Caraș-Severin County, the Serbs constitute an absolute majority in the commune of Pojejena (52.09%) and a plurality in the commune of Socol (49.54%). Serbs also constitute absolute majority in the municipality of Svinița (87.27%) in the Mehedinți County. The region where these three municipalities are located is known as \"Clisura Dunării\" in Romanian or \"Banatska Klisura\" (Банатска Клисура) in Serbian.\n\nThe following localities had a Serb population greater than 1% according to the 2011 census. Serbian placenames are included in brackets.\n\n\nMost of the Serbs in Romania are Orthodox Christians; the vast majority belong to Serbian Orthodox Church Eparchy of Timișoara.\n\nList of Serbian Orthodox monasteries in Romania:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48863280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48863280", "title": "Sex differences in emotional intelligence", "text": "Sex differences in emotional intelligence\n\nEmotional intelligence (EI) involves using cognitive and emotional abilities to function in interpersonal relationships, social groups as well as manage one's emotional states. It consists of abilities such as social cognition, empathy and reasoning about the emotions of others.\n\nCurrent literature finds women have higher emotional intelligence ability than men based on common ability tests such as MSCEIT and the newer Test of Emotional Intelligence. Reviews, meta-analysis and studies of physiological measures, behavioral tests and brain neuroimaging also support such findings. However, the field of emotional intelligence is relatively new because it has only existed since the late 1990s, and therefore the literature has not built up everything known about sex differences in emotional intelligence.\n\nEmotional intelligence (EI) involves using cognitive and emotional abilities to function in interpersonal relationships, social groups as well as manage one's emotional states. A person with high EI ability can perceive, comprehend and express emotion accurately, and also has the ability to access and generate feelings when needed to improve one's self and relationships with others. According to the ability model, there are four abilities that exist for emotional intelligence:\n\nSocial cognition – Psychological processes that allow individuals to interpret and adapt to a social group. Social cognition is an important part of emotional Intelligence and incorporates social skills such as processing facial expressions, body language and other social stimulus.\n\nEmpathy – Emotional intelligence includes key aspects of empathy especially that part of empathy having to do with recognizing others’ feelings which falls under the \"Perception\" facet in the ability model of emotional intelligence\n\nA 246 university sample study published in the 2004 journal \"Personality and Individual Differences\" found women scored significantly higher than men on all scales of the MSCEIT. Another 330 sample study published in the same year and same journal also found women scored significantly higher in emotional intelligence ability than men. A 2006 sample study of 946 participants involving the University of Málaga and Yale University as well as researcher Peter Salovey found significantly higher scores obtained by women on overall scale and branches. A 2010 meta-analysis published in the \"Journal of Applied Psychology\" by researchers Dana L. Joseph and Daniel A. Newman found that women scored higher than men by around half a deviation which amounts to 6–7 points difference. A 2013 study published in the \"Journal of Personality Assessment\" by researchers Antonietta Curci and Tiziana Lanciano found that results are in line with those of previous studies showing that women consistently expressed higher emotional intelligence abilities than men (Brackett et al., 2004; Extremera et al., 2006; Salguero et al., 2012). A 2014 study published in the journal \"PLoS ONE\" by researchers Jerzy Wojciechowski, and Maciej Stolarski found differences favoring women for performance-based EI ability tests supporting the held common hypothesis that women have higher EI scores than men do. A 2016 study by researcher Tiziana Quarto published in the journal \"PLoS ONE\" found women had higher EI abilities among a group of 63 participants.\n\nA 2014 study plus meta-analysis published in the journal \"PLoS ONE\" with a sample size of 8979 participants found higher overall score by females on all facets of ability emotional intelligence. The analysis was conducted by researchers Magdalena Śmieja, Jarosław Orzechowski and Maciej S. Stolarski in various universities across Poland. They also found in another study that although genders were equally adept at detecting consistency with basic emotions, women were superior at detecting deception in both basic emotion and inconsistent emotions conditions or in other words complex and subtle emotions. The deviation size differences were 0.32 and the researchers attributed this to women's greater emotional intelligence.\n\nA 2011 study published in the journal \"Sex Roles\" by researchers Matthew J. Hertenstein and Dacher Keltner found that within a behavioral experiment study of 212 participants, women shared more emotions, felt more prosocial emotions and communicated much more happiness levels in one on one dyadic interaction. Results also found that 79% of female decoders accurately identified male emotions and 96% accurately identified female emotions (both \"p\"s < .01). For male decoders, 70% (\"p\" = .052) correctly identified male encoders and 81% (\"p\" < .01) correctly identified female encoded emotions. Results conformed with findings from past literature.\n\nA 2012 review published in the journal \"Neuropsychologia\" found that women are better at recognizing facial effects, expression processing and emotions in general. Men were only better at recognizing specific behaviour which includes anger, aggression and threatening cues. A 2012 study published in the journal \"Neuropsychology\" with a sample of 3500 individuals from ages 8–21, found that females outperformed males on face memory and all social cognition tests. Another 2014 study published in the journal \"Cerebral Cortex\" found that females had larger activity in the right temporal cortex, an essential core of the social brain connected to perception and understanding the social behaviour of others such as intentions, emotions, and expectations. In 2014, a meta-analysis of 215 study sample by researcher A.E. Johnson and D Voyeur in the journal \"Cognition and Emotion\" found overall female advantage in emotional recognition. Other studies have also indicated greater female superiority to discriminate vocal and facial expression regardless of valence, and also being able to accurately process emotional speech. Studies have also found males to be slower in making social judgements than females. Structural studies with MRI neuroimaging has also shown that women have bigger regional grey matter volumes in a number of regions related to social information processing including the inferior frontal cortex and bigger cortical folding in the Inferior frontal cortex and parietal cortex. Researchers have indicated that these sex differences in social cognition predisposes to high rates of autism spectrum disorders among males which is characterized by lower social cognition. Two 2015 reviews published in the journal \"Emotion review\" also found that adult women are more emotionally expressive, especially for positive emotions.\n\nA 2006 meta-analysis by researcher Rena A Kirkland in the \"North American Journal of Psychology\" found significant sex differences favoring females in \"Reading of the mind\" test. \"Reading of the mind\" test is an advanced ability measure of cognitive empathy in which Kirkland's analysis involved 259 studies across 10 countries. Another 2014 meta-analysis in \"Cognition and Emotion\", found overall female advantage in non-verbal emotional recognition across 215 samples.\n\nIn a study published in 2006, neuroscientist Tania Singer showed that empathy-related neural responses are significantly lower in males when observing an \"unfair\" person experiencing pain. Another 2014 study by researchers Chiyoko Kobayashi Frank, Simon Baron-Cohen and Barbara L. Ganzel found that on average women use networks in the brain associated with both cognitive empathy ( higher activity in mPFC) and emotional empathy (non-activity in the vmPFC) more than men, in which they inferred can somewhat explain why women have better performance in theory of mind or cognitive empathy skills. A 2014 analysis from the journal \"Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews\" also found that there are sex differences in empathy from birth, growing larger with age and which remains consistent and stable across lifespan. Females were found to have higher empathy than males at all ages, and children with higher empathy regardless of gender continue to possess high empathy throughout development in life. Further analysis of brain tools such as event related potentials found that females who viewed human suffering had higher ERP waveforms than males, an indication of greater empathetic response. Another investigation with similar brain tools such as N400 amplitudes found higher N400 in females in response to social situations which then positively correlated with self-reported empathy. Structural fMRI studies have also found females to have larger grey matter volumes in posterior inferior frontal and anterior inferior parietal cortex areas which have been correlated with mirror neurons indicated by the fMRI literature. Mirror neurons are crucial for many if not most aspects of empathy. Females were also found to have stronger link between emotional and cognitive empathy. The researchers found that the stability of these sex differences in development are not likely explained by any environmental influences but instead might have some roots in human evolution and sex biased genetic inheritance.\n\nThroughout prehistory, females nurtured and were the primary caretakers of children, so this might have led to an evolved neurological adaptation for women to be more aware and responsive to non-verbal human expressions. According to the \"Primary Caretaker Hypothesis\", prehistoric males did not have the same selective pressure as primary caretakers and therefore this might explain modern day sex differences in emotion recognition and empathy.\n"}
{"id": "7079911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7079911", "title": "Shurugwi Rural Areas", "text": "Shurugwi Rural Areas\n\nShurugwi Rural Areas, also known as Shurugwi District, is a rural area around Shurugwi, Zimbabwe, mainly to the east, beginning from the town centre. The area between the town and the rural areas was mainly occupied by white commercial farmers. It is thought that at one time, these farms were owned by three families who were all related. The total area of these farms is approximately 60 km x 40 km similar to an area that was occupied by more than 4,000 African families. Most of the black families are subsistence farmers. Maize is generally grown by the majority.\n\nThere are a number of primary schools in Shurugwi Rural. Most of them, like Vungwi Primary School, were built as far back as 1905. The list includes: Banga,Bokai, Chekenyu, Chikato, Dombwe, Hanke, Makonde (St Monica),Makotore, Matamba, Mavedzenge (St Peter), Mhangami (St Pius), Ndaora (St Paul), Nhema (St Francis), Pakame,Rusike Shamba, Tumba, Vungwi,Gundura, Banga, Wida,Sibolise, Charles Wreath and Zvishazha.\n\nThere are a number of secondary schools in Shurugwi Rural, notably Sibolise Secondary School,Mupangai Secondary School, Chivakanenyanga Secondary School, Batanai Secondary School, Rusungunuko Secondary School, Dombotombo Secondary School, Chironde-Kwagweya Secondary School, and Bokai Secondary School, among others. The academic results from year to year are generally poor and below par which is generally blamed on the teachers.\n\nThere are only three boarding schools in Shurugwi which are all in rural areas:\n\nHanke Adventist High School, a Seventh-day Adventist school which traditionally offered up to 0-Levels and was called Hanke Adventist Secondary School. It was recently upgraded to offer all levels through A-Levels and changed its name to reflect that. As it is a mission school, both the primary school and the high school are on the same campus which can cause confusion between them.\n\nTongogara High School, only 10 km from Hanke, is a government-run high school. The boarding facilities are generally reserved for A-Levels students while the Form 1s to Form 4s are general day-schoolers (although a limited number of lower grade students have been admitted into boarding since 1990). Tongogara was founded as a secondary school in the early 1980s and A-Level was only introduced in 1989. It is the biggest high school in Shurugwi by student population.\n\nPakame Mission, about 40 km to the southwest, is a Methodist-run mission. Like Hanke, it traditionally offered classes up to form 4 (O-Levels), but was recently upgraded to offer up to A-Levels. Pakame is considered the best of the three in terms of O-Level pass rate.Rusununguko is now a high school offering A levels as well.\n\nRusununguko High School which is 4 km was of late upgraded to offer A levels, this is the only non boarding high school in Shurugwi. This schools caters for talented students from disadvantaged families mainly from its neighboring secondary schools such as Mupangai, Bokai. The pass rate from Rusununguko is not bad, most students walk +/- 15 km to and from school. Most students who come through these walls normally fails to progress with their education because of university fees challenges\n\nZvamavande Rural Hospital is the only hospital in Shurugwi Rural. It is located 2 km southeast of Cha Cha Cha Township, 2 km southwest of Vungwi Primary School and 7 km northeast of Rusununguko Secondary School.\n\nThere are a number of rural clinics in Shurugwi Rural. Notable clinics include Hanke Clinic, on the same campus as Hanke Mission; Saint Francis Clinic, near the residence of Chief Nhema and facilitated by his politician son, Francis Nhema, about 40 km northeast of Cha Cha Cha Township and 20 km northeast of Hanke Adventist Secondary School; and Tongogara Clinic, situated at Tongogara Shopping Centre. There is also Gundura clinic, about 5 km from Pakame Mission.There is also Rusike clinic about 15 km south of Cha Cha Cha.\n\nZvamavande Hospital is the referral centre for all other clinics in the region which often transfers patients to Shurugwi Hospital in Shurugwi.\n\nPeople still walk long distances to health centres. Serious cases are sometimes transported up to 10 km by ox-drawn carts. This happens especially to those that are from areas that are not easily accessed by cars such as resettlement areas commonly known as \"minda murefu\" (literally, \"long fields\").\n\nLike other rural areas, Shurugwi Rural Areas has suffered the wrath of HIV and AIDS, partly because of unawareness and poverty. Sex is considered the only form of entertainment in rural areas, given that many families do not have televisions and there are no cinemas to watch movies. Due to an unexpected number of deaths between the middle 1990s and the early 2000s, people have been frightened by the consequences of AIDS and the HIV rate in the area has recently declined.\n\nThere has been considerable resettlement, since 80% of the area around Shurugwi was owned by commercial farmers (generally Caucasians) who lost their farms because of the domestic land policy of President Mugabe. The people who claimed these farms (mostly black families without land) have struggled to survive due to lack of knowledge regarding good agricultural methods. Most of the beneficiaries are not originally from Shurugwi.\n\nHome to the late freedom fighter and Commander in Chief of Zanla forces, Josiah Magama Tongogara, other notable politicians include late Midland governor and resident minister Herbert S.M Mahlaba, Francis Nhema, the Minister of Tourism in the Mugabe cabinet and an MP of Shurugwi, first Shurugwi MP at independence and now Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Simbarashe Mumbengegwi, Dr Lucia Matibenga, and Emmerson Mnangagwa, by virtue of marriage to Tongogara's sister and coming from Chirumhanzu, and Dr Frank Mbengo.\n\nFrank Mbengo is an academic from Mbengo Village, situated 1 km southwest of Vungwi Primary School, 1 km northwest of Zvamabande Hospital, and 1 km from Cha Cha Cha Township. He ran several times as an independent but was not elected. Some reports say he was offered a cabinet post by Mugabe but declined. Another notable personnel include Dr Anderson Chimusoro who once served as the Midlands Province provincial medical officer and Tinotenda Weiss Chimusoro(son of Charles Chimusoro) who is a journalist by profession and has worked beyond borders particularly in SADC countries(Times Of Swaziland).\n\nDue to patronage, MPs have since independence come from the north (15 km north of Cha Cha Cha Township), an area under the guardianship of Chief Nhema, as opposed to the south which is under Chief Ndanga. David Ruzive, a former MP who has been heavily criticized, was also from Nhema. This has caused more development in the Nhema area than in the Ndanga Area.\n\nCha Cha Cha Township is the best-located township in Shurugwi Rural because it is where major roads meet. Unfortunately it has been neglected and the growth point was placed at Tongogara Township.\n\nThe district is located on the mineral-rich belt, commonly known as the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe,known ocally as Chironde Mountain range, making it one of the most mineral-rich areas in the country. Chromite,Platinum, Gold and Nickel are all mined around Shurugwi. This mountain range stretches all the way from Cape Town through to the copper belt regions of Zambia. Places of interest include Wolfshall Pass, commonly known as Boterekwa due to the winding of the road as it negotiates its way up and between mountains. Midway through Boterekwa, there is Dun raven Falls which is about 100m from the road. Boterekwa is very similar to the pass close to Louis Trichardt in South Africa since both were constructed by an Italian firm, the difference only being there are tunnels in Louis Trichardt. It has been a scene of many road accidents with most of them fatal.The most notable of these accidents occurred in 1976 when a bus load of students from Chrome Secondary School overturned. Only three teachers survived the crash. Almost every year, a serious accident do occur at Boterekwa, this is attributted to narrow road, steep slopes and sharp curves.\n\nAnother place of interest can be the Guruguru (which means very huge) mountain, the mountain is a bare granite rock which a few kilometers east of Pakame High School. Getting to the top of this mountain can be a mission due to the absence of supporting trees and slippery rock surfaces.\n\nGenerally, Shurugwi is very scenic districts which a sizeable hills all over the place, this include Bokai, Chikomo Chirefu, Magomana, Shamba, Rasha close to Chachacha and Gururuguru. Unfortunately due to resettlement in the area, most of wild animals have been driven away or killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "56878275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56878275", "title": "Smuggling in pre-revolutionary France", "text": "Smuggling in pre-revolutionary France\n\nSmuggling in pre-revolutionary France was a reaction to the economic hardships and internal taxations throughout the country. Though the trade of contraband was lucrative throughout Europe, it was especially so in France and contributed to national tensions. While tobacco was commonly smuggled, common items such as salt and calico were carried across provincial borders to avoid high taxes. The smuggling trade was very profitable, and it allowed families to increase their income while subverting corrupt tax farmers. The prevalence of smuggling and the economic motivations surrounding the trade helped lead France towards revolution.\n\nSeveral economic factors contributed to the prevalence of smuggling in the second half of the eighteenth century. Of the twenty-six million people in France, twenty-one million worked within the agricultural sector. However, most peasants who owned land held less than twenty acres, enough to support a single family. France strongly relied on its agricultural sector, and this over dependence left the population susceptible to draughts and other natural disasters. Urban peasants faced similar problems, as most of Paris’s population served as manual workers. The census of 1791 revealed that there were 118,784 paupers, unskilled laborers, and beggars in Paris, about a quarter of the population. Therefore, most of the urban and rural populations were limited to lower-class occupations. There was also economic disparity between the sexes. A male servant might earn 90 livres a year while a woman earned 35-50 livres. Peasants dedicated half of their household income to food, leaving little money for other expenses.\n\nDespite this wealth inequality, French foreign trade was widely successful until the beginning of the revolution, as the sugar trade in the West Indies brought great wealth to France’s elite. The monarchy capitalized on this wealth by imposing trade monopolies with its Caribbean colonies. However, the Eden Treaty with England of May 1787 hindered the French manufacturing sector, as the agreement lowered internal tariffs on English goods. This trade agreement outraged French merchants because they couldn’t compete with British prices. Such trade agreements contributed to poverty within France and encouraged illicit economic activity.\n\nSmuggling within France was an extremely lucrative business due to high demand for expensive products, specifically tobacco, salt, and calico. Smugglers devised means of subverting the authorities. For example, female smugglers would often stuff salt into their dresses. Smugglers also trained dogs to carry salt, though no records exist on their prevalence or incarceration rates. In addition, many smuggling bands formed; French authorities were aware of at least 38 large smuggling bands in the second half of the eighteenth century. As indirect taxes were uniform throughout France, certain provinces charged vastly more for some items. For example, 49 kilos of salt cost 31 sous in Brittany but 591 sous in Anjoy. Crossing he Loire River, which separated the two territories, became a common means of transporting contraband. Salt smuggling was particularly problematic for the authorities, as smugglers abused the gabelle, or salt tax. Many provinces mandated that every citizen buy at least seven pounds of salt per year. This salt could only be used for cooking, so many would have been required to buy more. As a result, many relied on purchasing contraband salt to escape these heavy fines. Calico was also a popular contraband item, as the French prized genuine Indian calico. Although calico’s prohibition ended in 1759, calico’s taxation remained high enough to justify smuggling. France’s public monopoly and internal tax system also upset foreigners. Irish lawmaker Edmund Burke stated that the system was “unwisely, with being ill-contrived, [and] oppressive.” Burke’s views show an international disapproval of France’s practices and an awareness that smuggling would be the taxes’ unintended consequence.\n\nSmuggling posed a significant problem for authorities. French law considered smuggling a direct offense against the King; smugglers avoided paying indirect taxes which composed 47% of the government’s income, so it was as if they were stealing from the monarch. Smugglers also undermined the ferme générale, or the “Five Great Farms.” This was a tax farming institution which collected and profited off indirect taxes. Therefore, the law dealt harshly with offenders to discourage further smuggling. Punishments for smuggling varied across France’s provinces but always worsened with repeat offenses. Offenders were always fined and often served additional time depending on the region. In Provence, smuggling bands of five and larger received fines of 500 livres and served nine years in galleys for a first offense. The law was especially harsh on nobles who dealt in contraband; commonly, those elites who were caught were stripped of their titles and their houses were raised. The severe punishment of the contraband industry shaped France’s prison infrastructure. From 1685 to 1791, over 100,000 men went to the galleys for illegal trade. The government needed to build more prisons to meet demands, and this influx of prisoners would lead the French government to create the modern French prison.\n\nFrench authorities also reacted by imposing increased regulations on the business practices and movements of peasants. Officers viewed travelers with suspicion and demanded that merchants show their paperwork to prove the legitimacy of their wares. The government also increased the Farm police to 20,000 guards which became the largest paramilitary force of the time in Europe. They patrolled the Loire River and prohibited fishing at night. Officers would also physically search any suspects. For example, they would squeeze women where salt could be hidden, often the padding within their dresses.\n\nDue to the heightened repression on underground trade, smugglers often played integral roles in inciting armed rebellions against taxation officers. From 1660-1789, tax rebellion was the primary form of revolt within France. Notably, these rebellions were larger than the bread riots which propelled the beginning of the French Revolution. The most prominent of these revolts occurred from July 11 to 14 in 1789, when smugglers and common workers destroyed forty customs gates. Occurring before the Storming of the Bastille, this was one of the first demonstrations of popular support for the French Revolution.\n\nSmugglers garnered large public support, and influential revolutionary figures and liberals defended these rebellions. Mirabeau, a noble and leader of the Revolution, argued that the true antagonist wasn’t the smuggling trade but the Farm; he called these men “vampires” who control a system which “bleeds the people at the throat.” These smuggler’s rebellions also influenced physiocrats, liberal economic supporters for fair trade; they advocated for a completely altered fiscal system which replaced taxes on goods with other taxes. Others such as the President of the Paris “cour des aides” Malesherbes asserted in 1775 that this crime didn’t warrant such severe punishment. He argued that the King could resolve this form of despotism by calling the Estates General, an institution last seen in 1614. Louis XVI would form the Estates General four years later.\n"}
{"id": "33134540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33134540", "title": "Southern Peninsular Malaysian Hokkien", "text": "Southern Peninsular Malaysian Hokkien\n\nSouthern Malaysia Hokkien () is a local variant of the Min Nan Chinese variety spoken in Central and Southern Peninsular Malaysia as well as in the Eastern Malaysian state of Sarawak. (Klang, Melaka, Muar, Tangkak, Segamat, Batu Pahat, Pontian, Johor Bahru and Kuching), Singapore, Riau and Riau Islands.\n\nThis dialect is based on the Quanzhou dialect. It is markedly distinct from Penang Hokkien and Medan Hokkien, which are based on Zhangzhou dialect.\n\nSimilar to the situation in Singapore, the term Hokkien is generally the used by the Chinese in South-east Asia to refer Min Nan Chinese (闽南语). Southern Malaysia Hokkien is based on Quanzhou dialect with some influence from Amoy.\n\nSouthern Malaysia Hokkien is also subjected to influence from various languages or dialects spoken in Malaysia. This is influenced to a certain degree by Teochew dialect and is sometimes being regarded to be a combined Hokkien-Teochew speech (especially in Muar, Batu Pahat, Pontian and Johor Bahru). It has many loan words from Malay and English.\n\n"}
{"id": "10281551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10281551", "title": "Spite house", "text": "Spite house\n\nA spite house is a building constructed or substantially modified to irritate neighbors or any party with land stakes. Spite houses may create obstructions, such as blocking out light or blocking access to neighboring buildings, or can be flagrant symbols of defiance. Because long-term occupation is at best a secondary consideration, spite houses frequently sport strange and impractical structures.\n\nSpite houses are considerably rarer than spite fences. This is partially attributable to the fact that modern building codes often prevent the construction of houses likely to impinge on neighbors' views or privacy, but mostly because fence construction is far cheaper than home construction. There are also similar structures known as spite wall or blinder wall.\n\n\nIn 1839 or 1840, Edgar Allan Poe, in his story \"The Business Man\", wrote the following passage in the voice of Peter Proffit, a man who imagines himself a legitimate businessman although the reader realizes that he is a con man. Proffit's attempted scam in this passage is to build a spite house and extort his neighbors to pay him to tear it down. (He calls this line of business 'the Eye-Sore trade'.)\n\nWhenever a rich old hunks, or prodigal heir, or bankrupt corporation, gets into the notion of putting up a palace, there is no such thing in the world as stopping either of them, and this every intelligent person knows. The fact in question is indeed the basis of the Eye-Sore trade. As soon, therefore, as a building project is fairly afoot by one of these parties, we merchants secure a nice corner of the lot in contemplation, or a prime little situation just adjoining or tight in front. This done, we wait until the palace is half-way up, and then we pay some tasty architect to run us up an ornamental mud hovel, right against it; or a Down-East or Dutch Pagoda, or a pig-sty, or an ingenious little bit of fancy work, either Esquimau, Kickapoo, or Hottentot. Of course, we can't afford to take these structures down under a bonus of five hundred per cent upon the prime cost of our lot and plaster. Can we? I ask the question. I ask it of business men. It would be irrational to suppose that we can.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23459050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23459050", "title": "Tahitians", "text": "Tahitians\n\nThe Tahitians, or Maohis, are a nation and Polynesian ethnic group native to Tahiti and thirteen other Society Islands in French Polynesia, as well as the modern population of these lands of multiracial, primarily Polynesian-French, ancestry (). The Tahitians are one of the largest indigenous Polynesian ethnic groups, behind the Māori, Samoans and Hawaiians.\n\nThe first Polynesian settlers arrived in Tahiti around 400AD by way of Samoan navigators and settlers via the Cook Islands. Over the period of half a century there was much inter-island relations with trade, marriages and Polynesian expansion with the Islands of Hawaii and through to Rapanui.\n\nThe original Tahitian society was unaware of metal as it was based on Stone Age technology. However, it enabled Tahitians to clear land for cultivation on the fertile volcanic soils and build fishing canoes, their two basic subsistence activities. The tools of the Tahitians when first discovered were made of stone, bone, shell or wood.\n\nThe Tahitians were divided into three major classes (or castes): \"ari'i\", \"ra'atira\" and \"manahune\". \"Ari'i\" were relatively few in number while \"manahune\" constituted the bulk of population and included some members who played essential roles in the society. It is estimated that by the first contact with Europeans in 1767 the population of Tahiti was no more than 40,000 while other Society Islands held probably 15,000-20,000 natives.\n\nTahitians divided the day into the periods of daylight (\"ao\") and darkness (\"pō\"). There was also a concept of irrational fear called \"mehameha\", translated as uncanny feelings. The healers, familiar with herbal remedies, were called \"ta'ata rā'au\" or \"ta'ata rapa'au\". In the 19th century Tahitians added the European medicine to their practice. The most famous Tahitian healer Tiurai, of \"ari'i\", died aged 83 during the influenza outbreak on Tahiti in 1918.\n\nWhen British Captain Samuel Wallis \"discovered\" Tahiti on 18 June 1767, the natives were eager to trade, especially in iron nails unknown to them. Philibert Commerçon (1727–1773) in his \"The Tahitian Savage to the French\" wrote: \"They have a fruit instead of bread. Their other foods are equally simple\". Commerçon also described the practice of public sex, which he said Tahitians engaged in while being cheered on by applause and musical instruments. In the marital relationships Tahitians closely approached the situation where all women were the wives of men and the wife of every man was also the wife of his friend. Louis Antoine de Bougainville described a scene, where a young girl came on board, placed herself upon the quarter deck and carelessly dropt the cloth. Charles Darwin also wrote on Tahitians during the voyage on the \"Beagle\": \"There is a mildness in the expression of their countenances, which at once banishes the idea of a savage; and an intelligence, which shows they are advancing in civilization\".\n\nThe European ships however brought such diseases for which Tahitians had little or no immunity, such as dysentery, smallpox, scarlet fever, typhoid fever and tuberculosis. As a result of these changes by 1797 the population of Tahiti decreased to 16,000 from estimated 40,000 in 1767, when the first European ship HMS \"Dolphin\" touched on the island. The 1881 census enumerated about 5,960 native Tahitians. The recovery continued in spite of a few more epidemics.\n\nThree hundred Tahitian volunteers fought in the European theatre of World War II with the Free French Forces.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s Tahitian poets Henri Hiro, Charles Manutahi, Vaitiare and Turo Raapoto spearheaded the anticolonial writing in Tahiti. Hiro's \"God of Culture\" implores Oihanu, the Tahitian god of culture and husbandry, to empower the 'new generation'. Three women writers - Michou Chaze, Chantal Spitz and Vaitiare explore the problems of Tahitian identification in contemporary French Polynesia. Tahitian peasants and workers call themselves the 'true Tahitians' (\"Ta'ata Tahiti Mau\") to distinguish from part-Europeans (\"Ta'ata 'afa Popa'a\"). At the same time demis quite frequently identify themselves as indigenous people in terms of culture and political affiliation. Such Tahitian activists as Pouvanaa a Oopa, Francis Sanford and Charlie Ching and Catholic bishops Michel-Gaspard Coppenrath and Hubert Coppenrath are of \"demi\" ancestry.\n\nMany natives were painted from life by Paul Gauguin, who gave Tahitian titles to his works. In \"Ea haere ia oe\" (\"Where Are You Going?\"), for example, a pensive young girl wears the white flower \"tiare\" behind her left ear, signifying readiness to take a lover.\n\nTahitians are French citizens and are represented by two elected deputies to the French National Assembly and one representative in the French Senate. Tahitians vote by universal adult suffrage in all major French elections.\n"}
{"id": "1563770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1563770", "title": "Tarkani", "text": "Tarkani\n\nThe Tarkani ( '; ) or Tarkalani ( '; ) is a Pashtun tribe mainly settled in Bajaur Agency, Lower Dir district of Pakistan, and in Kunar province of Afghanistan but originally hailed from the Laghman province of modern-day Afghanistan.\n\nThe Tarkani is split into four clans. These include Mamund (Kakazai and Wur), Salarzai, Isazai, and Ismailzai.\n"}
{"id": "53838094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53838094", "title": "Ted Chiricos", "text": "Ted Chiricos\n\nTed Chiricos is an American criminologist and the William Julius Wilson Professor of Criminology at Florida State University.\n"}
{"id": "4527648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4527648", "title": "Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma", "text": "Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma\n\nThe Three Turnings of the Wheel (of Dharma) refers to a framework for understanding the sutra stream of the teachings of the Buddhism originally devised by the Yogachara school. It later became prevalent in modified form in Tibetan Buddhism and related traditions.\n\nThe distinction is, on the one hand, a historic or quasi-historic scheme by which the Buddha's first sermons, as recorded in the Pali Canon and the tripitakas of other early schools, constitute the First Turning, and the later Mahayana sutras comprise the Second and Third turnings. The schema appears in the Samdhinirmochana Sutra, a central Yogachara text, although it may predate it.\n\nThe model of three turnings of the 'Wheel' is an attempt to categorize the content, philosophical view, and practical application of the whole array of Buddhist sutrayana teachings. That is to say that the concept of three turnings exclusively belongs to the Himalayan Buddhist teachings ('Tibetan'). All other Buddhist traditions speak of one turning only, that in Mrigadaye, the Deer Park, in Sarnath, India.\n\nThe basic content and audience of the three turnings of the wheel can be summarized as follows:\n\nThe first turning is traditionally said to have taken place at Deer Park in Sarnath near Varanasi in northern India, to an audience of shravakas. It consisted of the teaching of the Four Noble Truths (Sanskrit: \"catvāry āryasatyāni\") and the other elements of the Tripitaka – the Abhidharma, Sutrapitaka and Vinaya. The Abhidharma referred to is the Abhidharma Pitaka of the Sarvastivada school, which is a later composition not taught by the Buddha, and contains philosophy which is antithetical, one may say, to the early teachings.\n\nThe second turning is said to have taken place at Vulture Peak Mountain in Rajagriha, in Bihar, India. The audience comprised bodhisattvas; in some telling there were also shravaka arhats there as well, who promptly had heart attacks and died from the shock of the new teachings. In the second turning, the emphasis is on emptiness (Skt: \"śūnyatā\") as epitomized in the Prajnaparamita sutras, and on compassion (Skt: \"\"). These two elements form bodhicitta, the epitome of the second turning. The Madhyamika school that Nagarjuna founded arose from his exegesis of the early texts and is included under the second turning. Nagarjuna attacked the metaphysics of the Sarvastivada school and a school which broke away from it called Sautrantika, and promoted, among other things, the classical emphasis on the dependent arising of phenomena of the early texts.\n\nThe third turning was also delivered to an audience of bodhisattvas in Shravasti and other Indian locations (e.g. in Kusinagara, to Bodhisattvas and onlooking Buddhas, in the Mahaparinirvana Sutra) – or even in transcendental Buddhic realms (in the Avatamsaka Sutra). The focal point of the third turning is Buddha nature and particularly the Tathāgatagarbha doctrine. This was elaborated on in great detail by Maitreya via Asanga in the Five Treatises of Maitreya, which are also generally grouped under the third turning. The Yogachara school reoriented later refinements, in all their complexity, so as to accord with the doctrines of earliest Buddhism.\n\nThe Huayen school of Chinese Buddhism considered the Tathāgatagarbha doctrine a fourth turning, with the third turning comprising only the Yogachara school. In addition, Vajrayana schools sometimes refer to tantra as the \"fourth turning.\"\n\nThe schema of the three turnings is found in Yogachara and Tathāgatagarbha texts such as the Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra and the Srimala Sutra and likely originated in the Yogachara literature. Naturally, they identify themselves as definitive. However, the schema was later adopted more widely, and different sects and schools of Buddhism, as well as individual Buddhist teachers and philosophers give different explanations as to whether the second or third turnings is 'definitive' (Skt: \"nitartha\") or 'provisional' (Skt: \"neyartha\") or requiring interpretation. In the Tibetan tradition, the Gelug school considers the second turning definitive, as do some scholars in other schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34359271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34359271", "title": "Transition scenario", "text": "Transition scenario\n\nTransition scenarios are descriptions of future states which combine a future image with an account of the changes that would need to occur to reach that future. These two elements are often created in a two-step process where the future image is created first (envisioning) followed by an exploration of the alternative pathways available to reach the future goal (backcasting). Both these processes can use participatory techniques (Raskin et al., 2002) where participants of varying backgrounds and interests are provided with an open and supportive group environment to discuss different contributing elements and actions.\n\nTransition scenarios are unique in type not only in terms of how they are created (process) but also their content. Their requirements are guided by transition management concepts and consider the \"fundamental and irreversible change in the culture, structure and practices of a system\" (Sondeijker, 2009:52,). Transition scenarios are emerging as a scenario type which is more applicable to the context of sustainable development based on their abilities to capture the complexities of system structure and innovation (Loorbach, 2007; Rotmans, 2005,).\n\nThere are various types of scenarios that can be used for a range of purposes and are predominantly split between first, second and third generation scenarios.\n\nFirst generation scenarios are intended to predict the future as accurately as possible, for instance by extrapolating trends. Examples of these scenarios are weather predictions, forecasts for a wide range of topics such as economic growth, population, building volume etc. They are predominantly based on the quantitative / econometric extrapolation of trends. Another part is based on qualitative \"trend watching methods\" (e.g. fashion).\n\nSecond generation scenarios have a more explorative character. Scenarios can be intended to explore possibilities for the future, without pronouncing upon their probability or desirability. Scenarios can then be defined as \"a tool for ordering alternative future environments in which one's decision may be played out\" (Peter Schwartz, 1991,). These scenarios are based on the presumption that nobody can predict, and therefore should not try to predict the future. \"The only relevant discussions about the future are those where we succeed from shifting from the question \"whether something will happen\" to the question \"what will we do IF something happens\" (Arie de Geus, 1998,). An example of this type of scenario was developed by Shell (The Shell scenario method).\n\nThird generation scenarios focus on long time spans and preferred societal systems which are normative and explorative in nature and reflective of the structural and societal changes required in pursuing sustainability (Sondeijker, 2009; Edquist 2005,). These scenarios are intended to produce a picture of the future we want. The question then is: \"what do we actually want the future to look like?\", examples of these scenarios are based, amongst others, on the European Awareness method and include the use of energy in urban environments, sustainable production and consumption, and normative \"factor 4\" studies. These scenarios were devised based on the claim that scenarios active in first and second generation scenario methods cannot live up to the challenge of imagining, contributing and preparing for the dynamic processes of transformative change. Transitions are complex interactions which need system approaches to define paths towards a sustainable future and transition scenarios are set to address these concerns by providing a method to handle these issues.\n\nThe creation of transition scenarios has two basic objectives. To ensure that the scenario created is relevant to the concepts of transition management to allow the system to be systematically analysed and to contribute to social learning. These objectives are encapsulated in the content and process, respectively, of transition scenario creation.\n\nTransition scenarios are informed by transition management concepts and theories which it uses as a basis for its contents. In particular, transition scenarios consider long time frames and are both normative and explorative in nature. Their contents are predominantly centred on the following elements (Sondeijker 2009; Geels, F. W, 2002, Kemp et al. 1998,):\n\nMulti-level criteria relate to elements of change (weak signals) that can be identified in present structures occurring at different levels of the system. These provide the opportunity to recognise and investigate levers than can be used for long run transitions. Weak signals combined with uncertain developments can produce the appropriate climate for structural change. Anticipation of weak signals is essential if the development of scenarios beyond the scope of current developments is to be reached.\n\nMulti-pattern criteria describe the interaction between actors and structure of the system being analysed. This includes action derived from bottom-up initiatives which are built up from actor groups which are involved in niche-based innovation activities which infiltrate and eventually change the dominant regimes. Equally important are actors across and between levels which can support and further accelerate change. This ensures that practices and habits in the system are transformed through the replacement of the old dominant regime with the new desired future state.\n\nMulti-phase criteria refer to the different timings of the alternating stages involved in transition management: predevelopment phase, take-off phase, acceleration phase and the stabilisation phase. The nature and speeds of these phases inform the character of the transition highlighting the importance of the barriers and drivers identified. In the take-off phase the point of no return is reached followed by the acceleration phase where cultural, structural and practice changes occur most visibly.\n\nTransition scenarios are also process orientated focusing on the ability of different stakeholders and participants to communicate and imagine their desired future within the discussion groups. Through this participatory process participants are encouraged to change mind set and attitude to think from a long-term perspective. Specific focus on various feasible topics will increase participants' knowledge of the topic area and the alternatives available in its context. These lessons may eventually be internalised within participants resulting in a social learning process (Social Learning Group, 2001,).\n\nEurope, along with the rest of the world, is facing the challenge of climate change and its impacts on the environment, economy and society. In order to address these concerns and to adopt a proactive approach in finding solutions, the European Commission launched its Europe 2020 Strategy in 2010 followed by its Roadmap for 2050. The 2020 strategy puts forward a vision of a Europe which has increased employment, invests in research and development, ensures more young people finish school and obtain university degrees, has fewer people threatened by poverty, has a reduced greenhouse gas level of 20% compared with 1990 level, has an increased contribution of renewable energy to reach 20% of total energy consumption and has increased efficiency by 20%. The 2050 Roadmap sets forward possibilities to reaching the more stringent 80% reduction target of greenhouse gases in 2050 by considering various scenarios and setting milestones for a 40% reduction by 2030 and 60% by 2040.\n\nIt is clear from this strategy and roadmap that Europe needs to transition to a future which is quite different from the one which follows a \"business as usual\" trajectory. This need formed the basis from which the EU Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) under its call \"Foresight to enhance behavioural and societal changes enabling the transition towards sustainable paths in Europe\" was created. Three projects focusing on transition scenarios and management were selected to provide range in application and context. These projects are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "7096842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7096842", "title": "Trique", "text": "Trique\n\ntriques ciudades of Oaxaca of Juárez México \n\nThe Trique () or Triqui () are an indigenous people of the western part of the Mexican state of Oaxaca, centered in the municipalities of Juxtlahuaca, Tlaxiaco and Putla. They number around 23,000 according to Ethnologue surveys. The Trique language is a Mixtecan language of Oto-Manguean genetic affiliation. Trique peoples are known for their distinctive woven huipiles, baskets, and \"morrales\" (handbags). \n\nTrique people live in a mountainous region, called \"La Mixteca Baja\", in the southwestern part of the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. The elevation within the Trique region varies between . This high elevation permits low-lying cumulus clouds to envelop entire towns during the afternoons and evenings.\n\nLike many other southern Mexicans, many Trique men travel to Oaxaca City, Mexico City, or the United States as day labourers or migrant workers. As the average daily salary of a rural Oaxacan is less than $5 (U.S.) and La Mixteca is the poorest region of Oaxaca, migration and remittances sent back to Oaxaca confer economic benefits to both migrant Triques and their families in Oaxaca. Trique women are more likely to remain in the Trique region and do not travel as often as Trique men do.\n\nOne of the notable customs of Trique people is the practice of bride price. During pre-colonial and colonial times, this was a common practice amongst Native Americans in Mesoamerica, other groups like the Mixtecs of Oaxaca continue practicing a bride price based marriage. It is typical in Trique culture for a man to offer a bride's family money, food, and other products in exchange for the bride's hand in marriage. Generally, the husband and wife know each other prior to this arrangement and there is no arrangement without consent. Those opposed to this custom argue that it appears to them to be like slavery or prostitution. Those opposed to intervening in this custom argue that consent is required and that this Trique custom is not conceived of as immoral.\n\nThe Trique economic income comes through the cultivation of various crops such as corn, beans, pumpkin, chili peppers, quelite, and lima beans among others. But the most important crops are both the banana, and the coffee bean. The products are sold in tianguis (open-air markets) found in Chicahuaztla, Copala, San Martín, Itunyoso, Tlaxiaco, Putla, or Juxtlahuaca.\n\nThe Triques practice the slash and burn cultivation system. Due to the peculiar form of cultivating the earth, the work is done by various families (between 20-30 people) in order to plant Milpa (corn fields) throughout large terrains. This type of collaborate work is known as «mipa colectiva» or «milpa en compañía»\n\nAnother source of income for the Trique families is the raising of animals. Mainly they raise cattle, bovines, sheep, goats, pigs and horses. On a smaller scale, they also raise chicken, turkey and duck. In the lower lands, they also practice beekeeping.\n\nThe main sport practiced by the Trique people is basketball, and as such, a basketball court can be found in all their surrounding communities. Tournaments are held during local festivals where all the athletes participate. The various institutes of education also hold basketball tournaments among all the surrounding schools. Gaining in popularity, although not widely practiced among the Trique is Soccer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "792022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=792022", "title": "United Nations Information and Communication Technologies Task Force", "text": "United Nations Information and Communication Technologies Task Force\n\nThe United Nations Information and Communication Technologies Task Force (UN ICT TF) was a multi-stakeholder initiative associated with the United Nations which is \"intended to lend a truly global dimension to the multitude of efforts to bridge the global digital divide, foster digital opportunity and thus firmly put ICT at the service of development for all\".\n\nThe UN ICT Task Force was created by United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan in November 2001, acting upon a request by the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) dated July 11, 2000, with an initial term of mandate of three years (until the end of 2004). It followed in the footsteps of the World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Digital Divide Initiative (GDDI), and the Digital Opportunities Task Force (DOT Force), established in 2000 by the G8 at their annual summit in Okinawa, Japan. By providing it with a home in the United Nations, this accorded the UN ICT Task Force, in the eyes of many developing countries, a broader legitimization than the previous WEF and G8 initiatives, even if these previous initiatives also included a multi-stakehoder approach with broad participation by stakeholders from industrialized and developing countries.\n\nThe Task Force's principal aim was to provide policy advice to governments and international organizations for bridging the digital divide. In addition to supporting the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) and leading the UN in developing ICT strategies for development, the Task Force's objective was to form partnerships between the UN system and states, private industry, trusts, foundations and donors, and other stakeholders.\n\nThe UN ICT Task Force has included the top ranks of the computer industry (Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Nokia, SAP, Siemens, Sun Microsystems), together with global NGOs (e.g., the Association for Progressive Communications), governments and international agencies. Its coordinating body was a multi-stakeholder bureau, assisted by a small secretariat at UN headquarters in New York. Technical advice was provided by a high-level panel of technical advisors.\n\nWithin the Report of the high-level panel of experts on information and communication technology (22 May 2000) suggesting a UN ICT Task Force, the panel welcomed the establishment of a United Nations Information Technology Service (UNITeS), suggested by Kofi Annan in \"We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the 21st century\" (Millennium Report of the Secretary-General). The panel made suggestions on its configuration and implementation strategy, including that ICT4D volunteering opportunities make mobilizing \"national human resources\" (local ICT experts) within developing countries a priority, for both men and women. The initiative was launched at the United Nations Volunteers under the leadership of Sharon Capeling-Alakija and was active from February 2001 to February 2005. Initiative staff and volunteers participated in the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Geneva in December 2003.\n\nIn November 2002 Kofi Annan issued a Challenge to Silicon Valley to create suitable systems at prices low enough to permit deployment everywhere, whether through international aid programs, NGOs, charities, or microcredit support. The call has been answered, but only a few UN programs were actively using computers and communications in developing countries in 2004. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ran a refugee camp in Tanzania where the Global Catalyst Foundation had placed computers and communications equipment for the use of the Burundian refugees confined there. The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) worked with the Kingdom of Bhutan on a Simputer project.\n\nThe Task Force was active, inter alia, in the process leading to the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Geneva in December 2003 and WSIS II in Tunis, Tunisia, in November 2005. In order to participate in the second phase of the WSIS, the Task Force's original three-year mandate was extended by another year and expired on 31 December 2005, with no further extension.\n\nThe Task Force's stakeholders, members and the experts on the panel of technical advisors, were active in working groups organized around four broad themes:\n\n\nRegional activities were carried out in five regional networks—Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia, Arab States, and Europe and Central Asia.\n\n2002, June 17–18: A session of the General Assembly of the United Nations was devoted to information and communication technologies for development, addressing the digital divide in the context of globalization and the development process. The session promoted coherence and synergies between various regional and international information and communication technologies initiatives. The meeting also contributed to the preparation of WSIS. Many countries were represented by high-level officials responsible for communications and for development.\n\nThe Task Force held 10 semi-annual meetings in various places that served as important venues for exchange of best practices, and to bring the various stakeholders together to work on common themes. Most successful, in the eyes of the participants, were those meetings that were held in conjunction with a series of Global Forums:\n\nIn addition, a Global Roundtable Forum on \"Innovation and Investment: Scaling Science and Technology to Meet the MDGs\" was held in New York City, 13 September 2005. The primary focus of the Forum was on the critical role of science, technology and innovation, especially information and communication technologies, in scaling-up grassroots, national and global responses to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nParallel to the booth at the ICT4ALL exhibition, a series of events was held under the auspices of the UN ICT Task Force and its members:\n\nThe Partnership for Measuring ICT for Development involves 11 organizations—Eurostat, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the United Nations ICT Task Force, the five United Nations Regional Commissions and the World Bank.\n\nKey parliament leaders presented their views on the role that national and regional assemblies can play in building the information society at a “High-level Dialogue on Governance, Global Citizenship and Technology”, on 16 November.\n\nAt this workshop, the Global e-School Initiative presented the Total Cost of Ownership Calculator—a framework for identifying and selecting the right ICT for schools by assessing their benefits, feasibility and costs.\n\nTwo high-level round tables on 16 November focused on “Regional Perspectives for the Global Information Society” and on “Women in the Information Society: Building a Gender Balanced Knowledge-based Economy”.\n\nThe 17 November round table examined how ICT can be applied to the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, and discussed ways to raise awareness of ICT as an enabler of development.\n\nThe 17 November panel demonstrated the potential of ICT to improve quality and cost efficiency of key public services, with specific focus on education and health care.\n\nThe 17 November round table focused on the critical role that broadband wireless infrastructure deployments play in bridging the digital divide.\n\nOne of the notable outcomes of the work of the UN ICT Task Force was the creation in 2003 of the Global E-Schools and Communities Initiative (GESCI), an international NGO initially located in Dublin, Ireland, to improve education in schools and communities through the use of information and communication technologies. GESCI was officially launched during the WSIS.\n\nToday GESCI (www.gesci.org) is located in Nairobi, Kenya. It has evolved into an organization engaging with governments and ministries, development partners, the private sector and communities to provide strategic advice, coordinate policy dialogue, conduct research and develop and implement models of good practice for the widespread use and integration of ICTs in formal education and other learning environments, within the context of supporting the development of inclusive knowledge societies and the achievement of the SDGs.\n\nAnother outcome is the Global ePolicy Resource Network (ePol-NET), designed to marshal global efforts in support of national e-strategies for development. The network provides ICT policymakers in developing countries with the depth and quality of information needed to develop effective national e-policies and e-strategies. The network was first proposed by the members of the Digital Opportunities Task Force (DOT Force), who merged their activities with the UN ICT Task Force in 2002. The ePol-Net was also officially launched during the WSIS.\n\nAnother outcome of the WSIS is the Global Centre for ICT in Parliament. Launched by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) in cooperation with the Inter-parliamentary Union (IPU) on the occasion of the World Summit of the Information Society (WSIS) in Tunis in November 2005, the Global Centre for Information and Communication Technologies in Parliament responds to the common desire to build a people-centred, inclusive and development-oriented information society, where legislatures are empowered to better fulfill their constitutional functions through Information and Communication Technologies (ICT).\n\nThe Global Centre for ICT in Parliament acts as a clearing house for information, research, innovation, technology and technical assistance, and promotes a structured dialogue among parliaments, centres of excellence, international organizations, the civil society, the private sector and the donor community, with the purpose to enhance the sharing of experiences, the identification of best practices and the implementation of appropriate solutions.\n\nThe task of bridging the digital divide is yet unfinished. The WSIS has called for an Internet Governance Forum to allow for a global multi-stakeholder discussion of issues related to the governance of the global resource that the Internet represents. The WSIS also called for a follow-up and implementation process, for which the principles embodied in the multi-stakeholder composition and workings of the UN ICT TF can provide a useful model.\n\nWork is also being carried on by the UN Group on the Information Society (UN GIS), with a focus on the UN System, and the successor to the UN ICT TF, the Global Alliance for ICT and Development (GAID), with an international development emphasis.\n\n\nAs part of its work, the Task Force and its members have published a series of books on various topics related to the work of the Task Force. These books are available in the UN bookstore, at Amazon (partially), or in PDF form:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23725157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23725157", "title": "Upward communication", "text": "Upward communication\n\nUpward Communication is the process of information flowing from the lower levels of a hierarchy to the upper levels. This type of communication is becoming more popular in organizations as traditional forms of communication are becoming less popular. The more traditional organization types such as a hierarchy, places people into separate ranks.\n\nUpward communication helps employees to express their requirements, ideas, and feelings. For the top management, upward communication is an important source of information for business decisions. It helps in alerting top management about the requirement of changes in an organisations. Upward contribution is the core contributor of business process re-engineering in many organisations.\n\nUpward communication is widely used as part of whistleblowing policy in many large organisations. Under whistle blowing policy, each employee is permitted to directly communicate with top management about matters requiring examination on vigilance angle. Hence it is used as a fraud prevention tool as well.\n\nUpward communication keeps managers aware of how employees feel about their jobs, policies and procedures, and the business in general. It consists of methods like Feedback from employees, helps in bringing Mutual Trust and helps the organization to determine, implement or decide upon new policies. It keeps the organization updated or prone to upcoming challenges.\n\nUpward communication is not free from disadvantages too. It suffers from problems like information can be changed during transmission, unwillingness to participate, fear of inefficiency, bypassing and flattery too. Sometimes top level executives discourage the upward flow of information and neglect the constructive suggestions and opinions about the work related issues of the organization. It is a time taking process and is comparatively slow too.\n"}
{"id": "8785216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8785216", "title": "Victorious Youth", "text": "Victorious Youth\n\nThe Victorious Youth, also known as the Getty Bronze or Atleta di Fano, is a Greek bronze sculpture, made between 300 and 100 BCE, in the collections of the J. Paul Getty Museum, Pacific Palisades, California. On its first rediscovery Bernard Ashmole and other scholars attributed it to Lysippos, a grand name in the history of Greek art; modern concerns are less with such traditional attributions than with the original social context: where the sculpture was made, for what context and who he might be.\n\nThe sculpture was found in the summer of 1964 in the sea off Fano on the Adriatic coast of Italy, snagged in the nets of an Italian fishing trawler, the \"Ferri Ferruccio\". After some furtive offering on the antiquities gray market and vigorous competition with the Metropolitan Museum of Art, it was acquired by the Getty Museum in 1977.\n\nThe sculpture may have been part of the crowd of sculptures of victorious athletes at Panhellenic Greek sanctuaries like Delphi and Olympia. His right hand reaches to touch the winner's olive wreath on his head. The powerful head has led viewers to see it as a portrait; the head was cast separately from the lithe body. The athlete's eyes were once inlaid, probably with bone, and his nipples are in contrasting copper.\n\nThe precise location of the shipwreck, which preserved this object from being melted down like all but a tiny fraction of Greek bronzes, has not been established; it seems most likely that a Roman ship carrying looted objects was on its way to Italy when it foundered. The statue has been roughly broken off its former base, breaking away at the ankles.\n\nThe Italian government has made claims for the return of the sculpture, which the museum has rejected as unfounded.\n\nThe Getty Museum is involved in a controversy regarding proper title to some of the artwork in its collection. The Museum's previous curator of antiquities, Marion True, was indicted in Italy in 2005 along with Robert E. Hecht on criminal charges relating to trafficking in stolen antiquities. The primary evidence in the case came from the 1995 raid of a Geneva, Switzerland warehouse which had contained a fortune in stolen artifacts. Italian art dealer Giacomo Medici was eventually arrested in 1997; his operation was thought to be \"one of the largest and most sophisticated antiquities networks in the world, responsible for illegally digging up and spiriting away thousands of top-drawer pieces and passing them on to the most elite end of the international art market\".\n\nIn a letter to the J. Paul Getty Trust on December 18, 2006, True stated that she is being made to \"carry the burden\" for practices which were known, approved, and condoned by the Getty's Board of Directors. True is currently under investigation by Greek authorities over the acquisition of a 2,500-year-old funerary wreath.\n\nOn November 20, 2006, the Director of the museum, Michael Brand, announced that twenty-six disputed pieces were to be returned to Italy, but not the \"Victorious Youth\".\n\nIn an interview to the Italian national newspaper \"Corriere della Sera\" on December 20, 2006 the Italian Minister of Cultural Heritage declared that Italy would place the museum under a cultural embargo if all the 52 disputed pieces would not return home overseas. On August 1, 2007 an agreement was announced providing that the museum would return 40 pieces to Italy out of the 52 requested, among which the Venus of Morgantina, which was returned in 2010, but not the Victorious Youth, whose outcome will depend upon the results of the criminal proceedings pending in Italy. On the very same day the public prosecutor of Pesaro formally requested that the statue be confiscated as it was unlawfully exported out of Italy, giving rise to a dispute that came to the Constitutional Court.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2508609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508609", "title": "World Roma Festival", "text": "World Roma Festival\n\nThe World Roma Festival or Khamoro is an international Romani festival held annually in the city of Prague, Czech Republic. It belongs to the most prestigious Roma projects on an international level with top international Roma musicians performing. The five-day-long festival is held in May on the streets of Prague and in a number of the city's clubs. The festival is divided into three sections: the Expert Section, which includes seminars, Culture Section, which consists of music, dancing, and parades, and Media Section, which provides the information leading up to the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "35248081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35248081", "title": "Yobe language", "text": "Yobe language\n\nThe Bijobe language, Miyobe, is a Gur language of Benin and Togo.\n"}
