{"id": "16424249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16424249", "title": "7742 Altamira", "text": "7742 Altamira\n\n7742 Altamira, provisional designation , is a Henan asteroid from the central region of the asteroid belt, approximately 7 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered by Czech astronomer Antonín Mrkos at the South Bohemian Kleť Observatory in the Czech Republic, on 20 October 1985. It was named for the Cave of Altamira in Spain.\n\n\"Altamira\" is a member of the Henan family (), a large asteroid family in the intermediate main-belt, named after 2085 Henan. It orbits the Sun in the central asteroid belt at a distance of 2.5–2.9 AU once every 4 years and 6 months (1,639 days; semi-major axis of 2.72 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.08 and an inclination of 4° with respect to the ecliptic. The body's observation arc begins at Palomar Observatory in May 1988, two and a half years after its official discovery observation at Klet.\n\n\"Altamira\" has been characterized as an L-type asteroid by Pan-STARRS photometric survey, which agrees with the overall spectral type for members of the Henan family.\n\nIn January 2014, a rotational lightcurve of \"Altamira\" was obtained from photometric observation by astronomers at the Palomar Transient Factory in California. Lightcurve analysis gave a short rotation period of hours with a brightness amplitude of 0.11 magnitude ().\n\nAccording to the survey carried out by the NEOWISE mission of NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, \"Altamira\" measures 6.5 kilometers in diameter, and its surface has an albedo of 0.184. The \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes a standard albedo for carbonaceous asteroids of 0.057 and consequently calculates a larger diameter of 8.7 kilometers.\n\nThis minor planet was named after the famous Cave of Altamira, located in northern Spain. Discovered in 1879, its prehistoric cave paintings feature drawings of wild bison, deer, horses and boar, as well as handprints of the artists who created them. The cave with its paintings has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The asteroid's name was proposed by Czech astronomer Miloš Tichý. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 24 June 2002 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "531176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531176", "title": "A71 road", "text": "A71 road\n\nThe A71 is a major road in Scotland linking Edinburgh with Lanarkshire and Ayrshire. It adjoins the Livingston Bypass A899.\n\nIt runs south west from Edinburgh for approximately 70 miles, through Saughton, Wilkieston and south of Livingston, Whitburn and Wishaw, then by way of Overtown, Garrion Bridge, Stonehouse, Strathaven, Darvel, Newmilns, Galston, Hurlford and Kilmarnock to Irvine on the North Ayrshire coast.\n\nFormerly a trunk route from the east to the west coast of Scotland it has since been downgraded to a mix of primary and secondary routes. From Edinburgh to Darvel, it is now a secondary route,in a poor state of repair in some places. But, from Darvel to Irvine, it has retained its primary route status.\n\nThe A71 almost parallels the M8 between the A720 (Edinburgh City Bypass) and the junction with the A73 at Newmains. It passes through the village of Wilkieston and onto the Mid Calder bypass, which leads the route to the south of Livingston. The A71 follows a very straight course through Livingston with several grade separated junctions.\n\nWest of Livingston, the A71 turns sharply south west, bypassing Shotts, Newmains and Wishaw then descends steeply into the Clyde Valley, over Garrion Bridge at the junction with the A72. The A71 climbs steeply up the western side of the Clyde valley on a road which it shares for a very short section with the A72.\n\nWhen the A71 peaks at the top of the valley, it goes under the M74 at Jct 8 (a junction known locally as Canderside Toll), before turning towards the village of Stonehouse, where a bypass takes traffic to the north of the narrow village roads, before descending into the Avon valley and into Strathaven. This village, at a meeting of the A71, A723 and A726, provides a link to East Kilbride and Paisley, as well as to Lanark, Hamilton and Motherwell.\n\nThe A71 then becomes a narrow and winding road across moorland, as the road ascends to the head of the Avon valley. At the highest point is Loudoun Hill, an ancient site of human occupation, and the road here follows the route of a minor Roman road which once linked the Clyde Valley and the coast. The road descends into the Irvine Valley, going through the towns of Darvel and Newmilns, and bypassing Galston and then through Hurlford. At Darvel, the A71 becomes a primary route for the rest of its length to Irvine, and widens slightly, with a straighter alignment until its junction with the A77, south of Kilmarnock. The A71 remains as a dual-carriageway until its terminus in Irvine town centre. A crash barrier runs along the central reservation of the dual-carriageway from the A77 to the boundary with North Ayrshire at Dreghorn.\n\nIn mid 2014, the road began to subside between Darvel and Newmilns, with the westbound lane being affected near to the entrance to Gowanbank House. Traffic lights were put in place while a solution was sought, however as of January 2017, a solution has been found and the traffic lights have been lifted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2020757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2020757", "title": "American Memorial Park", "text": "American Memorial Park\n\nAmerican Memorial Park on the island of Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands, was created as a living memorial honoring the sacrifices made during the Marianas Campaign of World War II. Recreational facilities, a World War II museum, and flag monument keep alive the memory of over 4,000 United States military personnel and local islanders who died in June 1944.\n\nThe park has baseball, bicycling, running, tennis, picnicking, and swimming.\n\nThe park is owned by the Government of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and is managed in cooperation with the National Park Service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14146903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14146903", "title": "Arkansas Delta", "text": "Arkansas Delta\n\nThe Arkansas Delta is one of the six natural regions of the state of Arkansas. Willard B. Gatewood Jr., author of \"The Arkansas Delta: Land of Paradox\", says that rich cotton lands of the Arkansas Delta make that area \"The Deepest of the Deep South.\"\n\nThe region runs along the Mississippi River from Eudora north to Blytheville and as far west as Little Rock. It is part of the Mississippi embayment, itself part of the Mississippi River Alluvial Plain. The flat plain is bisected by Crowley's Ridge, a narrow band of rolling hills rising above the flat delta plains. Several towns and cities have been developed along Crowley's Ridge, including Jonesboro. The region's lower western border follows the Arkansas River just outside Little Rock down through Pine Bluff. There the border shifts to Bayou Bartholomew, stretching south to the Arkansas-Louisiana state line.\n\nWhile the Arkansas Delta shares many geographic similarities with the Mississippi Delta, it is distinguished by its five unique sub-regions: the St. Francis Basin, Crowley's Ridge, the White River Lowlands, the Grand Prairie and the Arkansas River Lowlands (also called \"the Delta Lowlands\"). Much of the region is within the Mississippi lowland forests ecoregion.\n\nThe Arkansas Delta includes the entire territories of 15 counties: Arkansas, Chicot, Clay, Craighead, Crittenden, Cross, Desha, Drew, Greene, Lee, Mississippi, Monroe, Phillips, Poinsett, and St. Francis. It also includes portions of another 10 counties: Jackson, Lawrence, Prairie, Randolph, White, Pulaski, Lincoln, Jefferson, Lonoke and Woodruff counties.\n\nThe Delta is subdivided into five unique sub-regions, including the St. Francis Basin, Crowley's Ridge, the White River Lowlands, the Grand Prairie, and the Arkansas River Lowlands (also called \"the Delta Lowlands\").\n\nThe underlying impermeable clay layer in the Stuttgart soil series that allowed the region to be a flat grassland plain initially appeared to stunt the region's growth relative to the rest of the Delta. But in 1897, William Fuller began cultivating rice, a crop that requires inundation, with great success. Rice cultivation still features prominently in the region's economy and culture today. Riceland Foods, the world's largest rice miller and marketer, is based in Stuttgart, Arkansas on the Grand Prairie.\n\nIn the earth's history, after the Gulf of Mexico withdrew from what was Missouri, many floods occurred in the Mississippi River Delta, building up alluvial deposits. In some places the deposits measure deep.\n\nThe region was occupied by succeeding cultures of indigenous peoples for thousands of years. Some cultures built major earthwork mounds, with evidence of mound-building cultures dating back more than 12,000 years. These mounds have been preserved in three main locations: the Nodena Site, Parkin Archaeological State Park, and Toltec Mounds Archeological State Park.\n\nFrench explorers and colonists encountered the historic Quapaw people in this region, who lived along the Arkansas River and its tributaries. The first European settlement in what became the state was the French trading center, Arkansas Post. The post was founded by Henri de Tonti while searching for Robert de La Salle in 1686. The commerce in the area was initially based on fishing and wild game. The fur trade and lumber later were critical to the economy.\n\nEarly European-American settlers crossed the Mississippi and settled among the swamps and bayous of east Arkansas. Frontier Arkansas was a rough, lawless place infamous for violence and criminals. Settlers, who were mostly French and Spanish colonists, generally engaged in a mutually beneficial give-and-take trading relationship with the Native Americans. French trappers often married Quapaw women and lived in their villages, increasing their alliances for trade.\n\nAround 1800 United States settlers gradually entered this area. In 1803 the US acquired the territory from France by the Louisiana Purchase. As settlers began to acquire and clear land, they encroached on Quapaw territory and traditional hunting and fishing practices. The two cultures had divergent views of property. Relations deteriorated further after the 1812 New Madrid earthquake, which was felt throughout the region and taken as a portent. Some Native Americans considered the earthquake to be a sign of punishment for trading with the European settlers.\n\nThe beginning point of all subsequent surveys of the Louisiana Purchase was placed in the Arkansas Delta near Blackton. In 1993 this site was named a National Historic Landmark and later preserved as Louisiana Purchase State Park. A granite marker, accessible via a boardwalk through a swamp, marks the starting point of the survey.\n\nDuring the antebellum era, American settlers used enslaved African Americans as laborers to drain swamps and clear forests along the river to cultivate the rich alluvial plain. They began to develop cotton plantations, which produced the chief commodity crop of the region.\n\nAfter achieving territorial status in 1819, Arkansas reneged on an 1818 treaty with the Quapaw. Territory officials began removing the Quapaw from their fertile homeland in the Arkansas delta. The Quapaw had inhabited lands along the Arkansas River and near its mouth at the Mississippi River for centuries.\n\nThe invention of the cotton gin had made short-staple cotton profitable, and the Deep South was developed for cotton cultivation. It grew well in fertile delta soils. Settlers took these fertile lands for agriculture and pushed the Quapaw south to Louisiana in 1825-1826. The Quapaw returned to southeast Arkansas by 1830, but were permanently relocated to Oklahoma in 1833 under the Indian Removal Act passed by Congress. \n\nHigh cotton prices encouraged many planters to concentrate on cotton as a commodity crop, and the large plantations were dependent on slave labor. The plantation economy and a slave society were developed in the Arkansas Delta, with black slaves forming the majority of the population in these counties. This region developed political interests different from outlying areas where yeomen farmers were concentrated.\n\nMany African Americans were brought into the Delta throughout the early-to-mid-19th century through the domestic slave trade, transported from the Upper South. The counties with the largest populations of slaves by 1860 included Phillips (8,941), Chicot (7,512), and Jefferson (7,146). Prior to the U.S. Civil War, numerous Delta counties had majority-black and enslaved populations. As Arkansas was developed later than some other areas of the Deep South, its wealthy planters did not construct as many grand plantation mansions as in other states. The American Civil War ended that prosperous antebellum period.\n\nThe Civil War resulted in destruction to the river levees and other property damage. Expensive investment was required to repair the levees. The region's continued reliance on agriculture kept wages low, and the cotton market did not recover. Many freedmen stayed in the area, working by sharecropping and tenant farming as a way of life.\n\nLike other states of the former Confederacy, the state legislature of Arkansas passed laws to disenfranchise most blacks and many poor whites, in an effort to suppress Republican voting. It passed the Election Law of 1891, which required secret ballots, and standardized ballots, eliminating many illiterate voters. It also created a centralized election board, providing for consolidation of Democratic political power. Having reduced voter rolls, in 1892 the Democrats passed a poll tax amendment to the constitution, creating another barrier to voter registration for struggling white and black workers alike, many unable to pay such fees in a cash-poor economy. These two measures caused sharp declines in the number of African-American and white voters; by 1895 no African-American members were left in the General Assembly. The Republican Party was hollowed out, and the farmer-labor alliance collapsed. Most blacks were kept off the rolls and out of electoral politics for more than six decades, until after Congressional passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, although a concerted effort in the 1940s increased voter registration.\n\nSocial tensions rose in the area after World War I, as black veterans pushed for better conditions. Unlike other mass riots of Red Summer 1919, when whites attacked blacks in numerous northern and midwestern cities because of labor and social competition, the Elaine Race Riot, now known as the \"Elaine Massacre\", was the result of rural forces. It occurred near Elaine, Arkansas in the Delta, where local planters were trying to discourage the formation of an agricultural union among blacks. White mobs killed an estimated 237 blacks; five whites were killed in the unrest.\n\nThe area suffered extensively during the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927, which put tens of thousands of acres underwater, caused extensive property damage, and left many people homeless.\n\nIn the 1940s the mechanized cotton picker was introduced into regional agriculture. This led to a significant decline in demand for manual labor. During World War II, the defense industry in California and other western locations attracted many African-American workers from Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas in a second wave of the Great Migration, resulting in a marked population decrease in the Delta. The lack of jobs continued to cause a decline. Charles Bowden of \"National Geographic\" wrote, \"By 1970 the sharecropping world was already disappearing, and the landscape of today—huge fields, giant machines, battered towns, few people—beginning to emerge.\"\n\nThe Arkansas Delta is known for its rich musical heritage. While defined primarily by its deep blues/gospel roots, it is distinguished somewhat from its Mississippi Delta counterpart by more intricately interwoven country music and R&B elements. Arkansas blues musicians have defined every genre of blues from its inception, including ragtime, hokum, country blues, Delta blues, boogie-woogie, jump blues, Chicago blues, and blues-rock. Eastern Arkansas' predominantly African-American population in cities such as Helena, West Memphis, Pine Bluff, Brinkley, Cotton Plant, Forrest City and others has provided a fertile backdrop of juke joints, clubs and dance halls which have so completely nurtured this music. Many of the nation's blues pioneers were either born in the Arkansas Delta or lived in the region. \n\nToday the region hosts several blues events throughout the year, culminating in the Arkansas Blues and Heritage Fest. The festival attracts an average of about 85,000 people per day over its three-day run; it is rated in the top 10 music events in the nation by festivals.com.\n\nGospel music, the mother of Delta Blues, is enshrined in the lives and social fabric of residents. Many popular Delta artists in all other genres had their start singing or playing in church choirs and quartets. Given the historic racism and entrenched segregation in the Delta, the African-American church and, by extension, its music, have taken on a central role in the lives of residents. African-American gospel music's roots are deep in the Delta. Unlike the blues, which has been historically dominated by men throughout the Delta, women established a pioneering role in gospel music. From the quartet traditions that dominate south Arkansas, to the classic and contemporary solo artists who have found national prominence in the east, gospel music in the Delta has made and continues to make a significant mark on the cultural landscape.\n\nThe Arkansas Delta's country music roots have depth, with legendary performers coming from the area. While more geographically dispersed throughout the region, these artists represent the very best in country genres, including bluegrass, rockabilly, folk music, and alternative country. This music expresses the long-standing relationship between blues and country. As young country musicians continue to develop in the Delta, they continue to help the genre grow and evolve.\n\nR&B music has also had a presence as an outgrowth of the strong blues and gospel traditions. The East Central Delta area has produced a small number of talented and influential R&B artists.\n\nArkansas's blues Influence, shares a rich heritage with Mississippi and Memphis, Tennessee. Arkansas was home to numerous blues masters, who are held in high esteem by newer generations learning blues history. Arkansas blues artists influenced decades of pop culture music by such artists as Muddy Waters, Little Milton, B.B. King, Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, Joe Bonamassa, Stevie Ray Vaughan, George Harrison and the Rolling Stones. Some of the most notable Arkansas Delta born or affiliated blues/gospel artists include: Albert King, Big Bill Broonzy, Sippie Wallace, George Thomas, Bobby Rush, Eb Davis, Frank Frost, George Harmonica Smith, Hollis Gillmore, Howlin’ Wolf, Hubert Sumlin, James Cotton, Johnny Shines, Junior Walker, Sonny Boy Williamson II, Junior Wells, Larry Davis, Louis Jordan, Luther Allison, Michael Burks, Robert Johnson, Robert Lockwood Jr., Al Bell, J. Mayo \"Ink\" Williams, Robert Nighthawk, Sam Carr, Houston Stackhouse, James Cotton, Johnny Taylor, Shirley Brown, William \"Petey Wheatstraw\" Bunch, Son Seals, Luther Allison, Sister Rosetta Tharpe, Al Green, and others. Country/ Americana artists Johnny Cash and Levon Helm were also born and raised in the Arkansas Delta.\n\nThe Arkansas Delta economy is still dominated by agriculture. The main commodity crop is cotton; other crops include rice and soybeans. Catfish farming has been developed as a new source of revenue for Arkansas Delta farmers, along with poultry production.\n\nThe Delta has some of the lowest population densities in the American South, sometimes fewer than 1 person per square mile. Slightly more than half the population is African American, reflecting their deep history in the area. Eastern Arkansas has the most cities in the state with majority African-American populations. Urbanization and the shift to mechanization of farm technology during the past 60 years has sharply reduced jobs in the Delta. People have followed jobs out of the region, leading to a declining tax base. This hampers efforts to support education, infrastructure development, community health and other vital aspects of growth. The region's remaining people suffer from unemployment, extreme poverty, and illiteracy.\n\nThe Delta Cultural Center in Helena seeks to preserve and interpret the culture of the Arkansas Delta along with the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff's University and Cultural Museum. The Arts and Science Center for Southeast Arkansas in Pine Bluff is charged with highlighting and promoting works of Delta artists.\n\nThe ivory-billed woodpecker, which had not been sighted since 1944 and is believed to be extinct, was reportedly seen in a swamp in east Arkansas in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2143658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2143658", "title": "Cerrado", "text": "Cerrado\n\nThe Cerrado (, ) is a vast tropical savanna ecoregion of Brazil, particularly in the states of Goiás, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Tocantins and Minas Gerais. The Cerrado biome core areas are the plateaus in the center of Brazil. The main habitat types of the Cerrado include: forest savanna, wooded savanna, park savanna and gramineous-woody savanna. Savanna wetlands and gallery forests are also included. The second largest of Brazil's major habitat types, after the Amazonian rainforest, the Cerrado accounts for a full 21 percent of the country's land area (extending marginally into Paraguay and Bolivia).\n\nThe first detailed account of the Brazilian cerrados was provided by Danish botanist Eugenius Warming (1892) in the book Lagoa Santa, in which he describes the main features of the cerrado vegetation in the state of Minas Gerais.\n\nSince then vast amounts of research have proved that the Cerrado is one of the richest of all tropical savanna regions and has high levels of endemism. Characterized by enormous ranges of plant and animal biodiversity, World Wide Fund for Nature named it the biologically richest savanna in the world, with about 10,000 plant species and 10 endemic bird species. There are nearly 200 species of mammal in the Cerrado, though only 14 are endemic.\n\nThe Cerrado's climate is typical of the rather moister savanna regions of the world, with a semi-humid tropical climate. The Cerrado is limited to two dominant seasons throughout the year, wet and dry. Annual temperatures for the Cerrado average between 22 and 27 °C and average precipitation between 800–2000 mm for over 90% of the area. This ecoregion has a very strong dry season during the southern winter (approx. April–September).\n\nThe Cerrado is characterized by unique vegetation types. It is composed of a shifting mosaic of habitats, with the savanna-like \"cerrado\" itself on well-drained areas between strips of gallery forest (closed canopy tall forest) which occur along streams. Between the \"cerrado\" and the gallery forest is an area of vegetation known as the wet \"campo\" with distinct up- and downslope borders where tree growth is inhibited due to wide seasonal fluctuations in the water table.\n\nThe savanna portion of the Cerrado is heterogeneous in terms of canopy cover. Goodland (1971) divided the Cerrado into four categories ranging from least to most canopy cover: \"campo sujo\" (herbaceous layer with occasional small trees about 3 m tall), \"campo cerrado\" (slightly higher density of trees about 4 m tall on average), \"cerrado sensu stricto\" (orchard-like vegetation with trees about 6 m high) and \"cerradao\" (canopy cover near 50% with general height 9 m).\n\nProbably around 800 species of trees are found in the Cerrado. Among the most diverse families of trees in the Cerrado are the Leguminosae (153), Malpighiaceae (46), Myrtaceae (43), Melastomataceae (32) and Rubiaceae (30). Much of the Cerrado is dominated by the Vochysiaceae (23 species in the Cerrado) due to the abundance of three species in the genus \"Qualea\". The herbaceous layer usually reaches about 60 cm in height and is composed mainly of the Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Leguminosae, Compositae, Myrtaceae and Rubiaceae. Much of the vegetation in the gallery forests is similar to nearby rainforest; however, there are some endemic species found only in the Cerrado gallery forests.\n\nSoil fertility, fire regime and hydrology are thought to be most influential in determining Cerrado vegetation. Cerrado soils are always well-drained and most are oxisols with low pH and low calcium and magnesium. The amount of potassium, nitrogen and phosphorus has been found to be positively correlated with tree trunk basal area in Cerrado habitats. Much as in other grasslands and savannas, fire is important in maintaining and shaping the Cerrado's landscape; many plants in the Cerrado are fire-adapted, exhibiting characters like thick corky bark to withstand the heat.\n\nCerrado vegetation is believed to be ancient, stretching back perhaps as far in a prototypic form during the Cretaceous before Africa and South America separated. A dynamic expansion and contraction between cerrado and Amazonian rainforest has probably occurred historically, with expansion of the Cerrado during glacial periods like the Pleistocene. These processes and the resulting fragmentation have probably contributed to the high species richness both of the Cerrado and of the Amazonian rainforest.\n\nThe insects of the Cerrado are relatively understudied. A yearlong survey of the Cerrado at one reserve in Brazil found that the orders Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Diptera and Isoptera accounted for 89.5% of all captures. The Cerrado also supports high density of leaf cutter ant (\"saúvas\") nests (up to 4000 per hectare) which are also very diverse. Along with termites, leaf cutter ants are the primary herbivores of the Cerrado and play an important role in consuming and decomposing organic matter, as well as constituting an important food source to many other animal species. The highest diversity of galling insects (insects that build galls) in the world is also found in the Cerrado, with the most species (46) found at the base of the Serro do Cipó in southeast Brazil.\n\nThe Cerrado has a high diversity of vertebrates; 150 amphibian species, 120 reptile species, 837 bird species, and 161 mammal species have been recorded. Lizard diversity is generally thought to be relatively low in the Cerrado compared to other areas like \"caatinga\" or lowland rainforest although one recent study found 57 species in one cerrado area with the high diversity driven by the availability of open habitat. \"Ameiva ameiva\" is among the largest lizards found in the Cerrado and is the most important lizard predator where it is found in the Cerrado. There is a relatively high diversity of snakes in the Cerrado (22–61 species, depending on site) with Colubridae being the richest family. The open nature of the \"cerrado\" vegetation most likely contributes to the high diversity of snakes. Information about Cerrado amphibians is extremely limited, although the Cerrado probably has a unique assemblage of species with some endemic to the region.\nMost birds found in the Cerrado breed there although there are some Austral migrants (breed in temperate South America and winter in the Amazon basin) and Nearctic migrants (breed in temperate North America and winter in the Neotropics) that pass through. Most breeding birds in the Cerrado are found in more closed canopy areas like gallery forests although 27% of the birds breed only in open habitats and 21% breed in either open or closed habitats. Many of the birds in the Cerrado, especially those found in closed forest, are related to species from the Atlantic rainforest and also the Amazon rainforest. The crowned solitary eagle, hyacinth macaw, toco toucan, buff-necked ibis, dwarf tinamou, and Brazilian merganser are examples of birds found in the Cerrado.\n\nGallery forests serve as primary habitat for most of the mammals in the Cerrado, having more water, being protected from fires that sweep the landscape and having a more highly structured habitat. Eleven mammal species are endemic to the Cerrado. Notable species include large herbivores like the Brazilian tapir and Pampas deer and large predators like the maned wolf, cougar, jaguar, giant otter, ocelot and jaguarundi. Although the diversity is much lower than in the adjacent Amazon and Atlantic Forest, several species of monkeys are present, including black-striped capuchin, black howler monkey and black-tufted marmoset.\n\nTaking advantage of the sprouting of the herbaceous stratum that follows a burning in the Cerrado, the aboriginal inhabitants of these regions learned to use the fire as a tool, to increase the fodder to offer to their domesticated animals.\n\nXavantes, Tapuias, Karajás, Avá-Canoeiros, Krahôs, Xerentes, Xacriabás were some of the first indigenous peoples occupying different regions in the Cerrado. Many groups among the indigenous were nomads and explored the Cerrado by hunting and collecting. Others practiced coivara agriculture, an itinerant type of slash-and-burn agriculture. The mixing of indigenous, quilombola maroon communities, extractivists, geraizeiros (living in the drier regions), riverbank dwellers and vazanteiros (who live on floodplains) shaped a diverse local population that relies heavily on the resources of their environment.\n\nUntil the mid-1960s, agricultural activities in the Cerrado were very limited, directed mainly at the extensive production of beef cattle for subsistence of the local market, since cerrado soils are naturally infertile for agricultural production. After this period, however, the urban and industrial development of the Southeast Region has forced agriculture to the Central-West Region. The transfer of the country's capital to Brasília has been another focus of attraction of population to the central region. From 1975 until the beginning of the 1980s, many governmental programs have been launched with the intent of stimulating the development of the Cerrado region, through subsidies for agriculture. As a result, there has been a significant increase in agricultural and cattle production.\n\nOn the other hand, the urban pressure and the rapid establishment of agricultural activities in the region have been rapidly reducing the biodiversity of the ecosystems, and the population in the Cerrado region more than doubled from 1970 to 2010, going from 35.8 million to 76 million.\n\nThe Cerrado was thought challenging for agriculture until researchers at Brazil's agricultural and livestock research agency, Embrapa, discovered that it could be made fit for industrial crops by appropriate additions of phosphorus and lime. In the late 1990s, between 14 million and 16 million tons of lime were being poured on Brazilian fields each year. The quantity rose to 25 million tons in 2003 and 2004, equalling around five tons of lime per hectare. This manipulation of the soil allowed for industrial agriculture to grow exponentially in the area. Researchers also developed tropical varieties of soybeans, until then a temperate crop, and currently, Brazil is the world's main soyabeans exporter due to the boom in animal feed production caused by the global rise in meat demand.\n\nToday the Cerrado region provides more than 70% of the beef cattle production in the country, being also a major production center of grains, mainly soya, beans, maize and rice. Large extensions of the Cerrado are also used for the production of cellulose pulp for the paper industry, with the cultivation of several species of \"Eucalyptus\" and \"Pinus\", but as a secondary activity. Coffee produced in the Cerrado is now a major export.\n\nCharcoal production for Brazil's steel industry comes in second to agriculture in the Cerrado. They actually are quite intertwined. When land is being cleared to make more land for agriculture, the tree's trunks and roots are often used in the production of charcoal, helping to make money for the clearing. The Brazilian steel industry has traditionally always used the trunks and roots from the Cerrado for charcoal but now that the steel mills in the state of Minas Gerais are the world's largest, it has taken a much higher toll on the Cerrado. However, recently because of the conservation efforts and the diminishing vegetation in the Cerrado, they now are receiving some charcoal from the eucalyptus plantations and these efforts are growing.\n\nThe Cerrado is the second largest biome in South America and the most biodiverse savanna in the world. However, it is not currently recognized by the Brazilian Constitution as a National Heritage. It is also home to the Guarani Aquifer, stores the largest fresh water underground reservoirs in South America, and supplies water to a third of the Amazon river and the largest basins in the continent.\n\nBrazilian agriculturalists and ministers regard it as it has no conservation value, and the government has protected merely 1.5% of the Cerrado biome in Federal Reserves. By 1994, an estimated 695,000 km of cerrado (representing 35% of its area) had been converted to 'anthropic landscape'. In total, 37.3% of the Cerrado has already been totally converted to human use, while an additional 41.4% is used for pasture and charcoal production. The gallery forests in the region have been among the most heavily affected. It is estimated that only about 432,814 km2, or 21.3% of the original vegetation, remains intact today.\n\nDuring the last 25 years this biome has been increasingly threatened by industrial single-crop monoculture farming, particularly soybeans, the unregulated expansion of industrial agriculture, the burning of vegetation for charcoal and the development of dams to provide irrigation are drawing criticisms and have been identified as potential threats to several Brazilian rivers.\n\nThis industrial farming of the Cerrado, with the clearing of land for Eucalyptus and Soya plantation, has grown so much because of various forms of subsidy, including very generous tax incentives and low interest loans, this has caused an enormous establishment of highly mechanized, capital intensive system of agriculture. There is also a strong agribusiness lobby in Brazil and in particular, the production of soybeans in the Cerrado is influenced by large corporations such as ADM, Cargill and Bunge, these latter two directly associated with the mass deforestation of this biome.\n\nOne issue with expanding this reserve is that research needs to be done to choose the location of these reserves because the Cerrado biome is floristically very heterogeneous and constitutes a biological mosaic. Teams from the University of Brasília, CPAC and the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh have been collaborating on this project for a number of years funded by Brazilian, European Community and British funds. The project has recently been expanded into a major Anglo-Brazilian initiative, Conservation and Management of the Biodiversity of the Cerrado Biome, with UK Overseas Development Administration funding1. Its aim is to survey the floristic patterns of Cerrado vegetation and to discover representative areas and biodiversity `hot-spots'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32008128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32008128", "title": "Chandradwip", "text": "Chandradwip\n\nChandradwip or Chandradvipa is a small region in Barisal District, Bangladesh. It was once the ancient and medieval name of Barishal.\n\nThehHistory of Chandradwip goes back to the Pre-Pala Period.\n\nChandradwip was successively ruled by the Mauryas, Guptas and the Palas. Towards the end of the 10th century A.D., the Chandra Dynasty gave this region a \"distinct political identity.\"\n\nThe Chandras were succeeded by the Deva Dynasty. After a brief period of confusion, the Deva Dynasty occupied this region and established their capital at Kachua. They were followed by the Basu and Mitra Mazumdar families. During the latter's rule, Chandradwip was auctioned off.\n\nUntil the 18th century A.D., the Hindu rulers of Chandradwip were independent. After that this kingdom became a Zamindari, while the greater part of Chandradwip was named Bakerganj after a Muslim adventurer, Bakar Khan.\n\nChandradwip was one of the Hindu Kingdoms that survived the Muslim Invasion and Conquest. The presence of mighty rivers and canals prevented the Muslims from conquering this region. It maintained its independence under the Kayastha rulers.\n\nThe prosperity of this kingdom reached its zenith during the time of Kandarpanarayan Rai. Many Chinese and European travelers left interesting accounts about this kingdom. The earliest Chinese accounts describe this region as \" a famous place for the worship of the Hindu-Bauddha-Tantrik deity Tara\" The Temple of Tara was situated near the seashore. It was visible from the sea. Chandragomin, the famous grammarian of the 6th century, wrote his hymns on Tara from this place. In a manuscript of 1015 A.D., the region of Chandradwip was mentioned with the Tara-Temple. It was there during the rule of the Chandra kings.\n\nDuring the Mughal Period, this region came to be known as Bakla-Chandradwip.\n\nRabindranath Tagore wrote \"Bou Thakuranir Haath,\" a famous book about the Basu Maharani of Chandradwip which was latter filmed as Bou Thakuranir Haat.\n\nThis region was famous for its \"paddy, rivers and canals\".\n"}
{"id": "675395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675395", "title": "Conrad Malte-Brun", "text": "Conrad Malte-Brun\n\nConrad Malte-Brun (12 August 177514 December 1826), born Malthe Conrad Bruun, and sometimes referred to simply as Malte-Brun, was a Dano-French geographer and journalist. His second son, Victor Adolphe Malte-Brun, was also a geographer. Today he is perhaps best remembered for coining the name for the geographic region Oceania (French \"Océanie\") around 1812.\n\nBorn in Thisted to an administrator of Danish crown lands, Malte-Brun was originally destined for a career as a pastor, but chose instead to attend classes at the University of Copenhagen, and became a supporter of the French Revolution and an activist in favor of freedom of the press. Following the harsh censorship laws instituted by the Danish ruler crown prince Frederick in September 1799, he was indicted because of his many pamphlets which contained outright criticism of the government, which the new censorship laws forbade. A particular cause for offence was a pamphlet he published in 1795 entitled \"Catechism of the Aristocrats.\"\n\nThe case of Peter Andreas Heiberg, who for similar crimes had been sentenced to exile at Christmas of 1799, did not make Malte-Brun optimistic about his prospects. He had already left the country prior to the court sentence (which was first carried late 1800) and had settled first in Sweden, later in the Free City of Hamburg.\n\nAt some point during his exile, he started using his , Malthe, as part of his surname, Bruun.\n\nMalte-Brun arrived in France in November 1799, and began work on a geography treatise meant as a gift to his adoptive country. A poem on the death of Andreas Peter Bernstorff which he published during his exile procured for him permission to return to Denmark. But another pamphlet against the aristocracy subjected him to a new prosecution, and he left his country, and finally took up his residence in Paris. In December 1800, the Danish courts pronounced sentence of perpetual banishment against him, which was rescinded about the time of his death. Malte-Brun's geography treatise was written with the help of Edme Mentelle, a professor at the École Normale; together, they produced \"Géographie mathématique, physique et politique de toutes les parties du monde\" (6 vols., published between 1803 and 1812).\n\nHe was a regular contributor to \"Journal des Débats\". He at first opposed the consular government, but subsequently became a zealous imperialist, and after the fall of Napoleon an equally zealous monarchist, publishing in 1824 \"Traité de la légitimité considérée comme base du droit public de l'Europe chrétienne\".\n\nAside from his political writings, he devoted himself especially to geographical studies. He was the founder of \"Les Annales des Voyages\" (in 1807) and \"Les Annales des Voyages, de la Géographie et de l'Histoire\" (in 1819), which encouraged observations and reports as a basis for research. He became well known after contributing \"Tableau de la Pologne\", a treatise on the geography of Poland (in 1807, as the First Empire troops established French tutelage in the region). In 1822-1824, he served as the first general secretary of the newly founded \"Société de Géographie\". Malte-Brun was the first person to suggest importing camels into Australia. See Australian feral camel.\n\nHe died in Paris in 1826, as he was drafting the final version of his major work, the \"Précis de Géographie Universelle ou Description de toutes les parties du monde\". This appeared in eight volumes (1810–29), the last two volumes being by Huot. Malte-Brun's name was given to streets in both Paris (20th arrondissement) and Thisted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11177996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11177996", "title": "Controlled source electro-magnetic", "text": "Controlled source electro-magnetic\n\nThe controlled source electromagnetic (CSEM) method is an offshore geophysical technique, employing electromagnetic remote-sensing technology to indicate the presence and extent of hydrocarbon below the seabed, but often noise perturbs the delineation and quantification.\n\nThe CSEM survey uses a dipole source that is towed just above the seafloor to transmit a time-varying electromagnetic field into the earth. This field is modified by the presence of subsurface resistive layers and these changes are detected and logged by an array of receivers placed on the seabed. Because hydrocarbon-bearing formations are highly resistive compared with surrounding formations, a CSEM survey can indicate the presence of oil and gas in offshore situations.\n\n"}
{"id": "3394642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3394642", "title": "Dioptra", "text": "Dioptra\n\nA dioptra (sometimes also named dioptre or diopter from ) is a classical astronomical and surveying instrument, dating from the 3rd century BCE. The dioptra was a sighting tube or, alternatively, a rod with a sight at both ends, attached to a stand. If fitted with protractors, it could be used to measure angles.\n\nGreek astronomers used the dioptra to measure the positions of stars; both Euclid and Geminus refer to the dioptra in their astronomical works. By the time of Ptolemy (2nd century CE), it was obsolete as an astronomical instrument, having been replaced by the armillary sphere.\n\nIt continued in use as an effective surveying tool. Adapted to surveying, the dioptra is similar to the theodolite, or surveyor's transit, which dates to the sixteenth century. It is a more accurate version of the groma.\n\nThe dioptra may have been sophisticated enough, for example, to construct a tunnel through two opposite points in a mountain. There is some speculation that it may have been used to build the Eupalinian aqueduct. Called \"one of the greatest engineering achievements of ancient times,\" it is a tunnel 1,036 meters (4,000 ft) long, \"excavated through Mount Kastro on the Greek island of Samos, in the 6th century BCE\" during the reign of Polycrates. Scholars disagree whether the dioptra was available that early.\n\nAn entire book about the construction and surveying usage of the dioptra is credited to Hero of Alexandria (also known as Heron; a brief description of the book is available online; see Lahanas link, below). Hero was \"one of history’s most ingenious engineers and applied mathematicians.\"\n\nThe dioptra was used extensively on aqueduct building projects. Screw turns on several different parts of the instrument made it easy to calibrate for very precise measurements\n\nThe dioptra was replaced as a surveying instrument by the theodolite.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50013640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50013640", "title": "Elwak–Mandera Road", "text": "Elwak–Mandera Road\n\nThe Elwak–Mandera Road, is a rural road in Kenya. The road links Elwak, to the town of Mandera, in the country's extreme northeast, near the tri-point where the borders of Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia meet.\n\nThe road starts at Elwak, Mandera County, at the border with the town of El Wak, Somalia. It travels in a general northerly direction through a village called \"Warankara\", continuing north to the town of Rhamu, at the border with Ethiopia, a distance of approximately . At Rhamu, the road turns east for another to end at Mandera, the headquarters of Mandera County, for a total distance of .\nThis road is an important transport corridor for traffic from Mombasa and Nairobi destined for Mandera. It also facilitates trade between Kenya and her neighbors to the north and northeast; Ethiopia and Somalia respectively. Travel along this road, although safer compared to a shorter route through Lafey, is longer in distance and bumpier, due to the rough condition of the road.\n\nIn March 2016, the government of Kenya publicly committed to upgrading this gravel-surfaced road to class II bitumen surface with culverts, drainage channels and shoulders, before the end of 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27616141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27616141", "title": "Error analysis for the Global Positioning System", "text": "Error analysis for the Global Positioning System\n\nThe analysis of errors computed using the Global Positioning System is important for understanding how GPS works, and for knowing what magnitude of errors should be expected. The Global Positioning System makes corrections for receiver clock errors and other effects but there are still residual errors which are not corrected. The Global Positioning System (GPS) was created by the United States Department of Defense (DOD) in the 1970s. It has come to be widely used for navigation both by the U.S. military and the general public.\n\nGPS receiver position is computed based on data received from the satellites. Errors depend on geometric dilution of precision and the sources listed in the table below.\n\nUser equivalent range errors (UERE) are shown in the table. There is also a numerical error with an estimated value, formula_1, of about 1 meter. The standard deviations, formula_2, for the coarse/acquisition (C/A) and precise codes are also shown in the table. These standard deviations are computed by taking the square root of the sum of the squares of the individual components (i.e., RSS for root sum squares). To get the standard deviation of receiver position estimate, these range errors must be multiplied by the appropriate dilution of precision terms and then RSS'ed with the numerical error. Electronics errors are one of several accuracy-degrading effects outlined in the table above. When taken together, autonomous civilian GPS horizontal position fixes are typically accurate to about 15 meters (50 ft). These effects also reduce the more precise P(Y) code's accuracy. However, the advancement of technology means that in the present, civilian GPS fixes under a clear view of the sky are on average accurate to about 5 meters (16 ft) horizontally.\n\nThe term user equivalent range error (UERE) refers to the error of a component in the distance from receiver to a satellite. These UERE errors are given as ± errors thereby implying that they are unbiased or zero mean errors. These UERE errors are therefore used in computing standard deviations. The standard deviation of the error in receiver position,\nformula_3, is computed by multiplying PDOP (Position Dilution Of Precision) by\nformula_2, the standard deviation of the user equivalent range errors.\nformula_2 is computed by taking the square root of the sum of the squares of the individual component standard deviations.\n\nPDOP is computed as a function of receiver and satellite positions. A detailed description of how to calculate PDOP is given in the section, geometric dilution of precision computation (GDOP).\n\nformula_2 for the C/A code is given by:\n\nThe standard deviation of the error in estimated receiver position formula_3, again for the C/A code is given by:\n\nThe error diagram on the left shows the inter relationship of indicated receiver position, true receiver position, and the intersection of the four sphere surfaces.\n\nThe position calculated by a GPS receiver requires the current time, the position of the satellite and the measured delay of the received signal. The position accuracy is primarily dependent on the satellite position and signal delay.\n\nTo measure the delay, the receiver compares the bit sequence received from the satellite with an internally generated version. By comparing the rising and trailing edges of the bit transitions, modern electronics can measure signal offset to within about one percent of a bit pulse width, formula_10, or approximately 10 nanoseconds for the C/A code. Since GPS signals propagate at the speed of light, this represents an error of about 3 meters.\n\nThis component of position accuracy can be improved by a factor of 10 using the higher-chiprate P(Y) signal. Assuming the same one percent of bit pulse width accuracy, the high-frequency P(Y) signal results in an accuracy of formula_11 or about 30 centimeters.\n\nInconsistencies of atmospheric conditions affect the speed of the GPS signals as they pass through the Earth's atmosphere, especially the ionosphere. Correcting these errors is a significant challenge to improving GPS position accuracy. These effects are smallest when the satellite is directly overhead and become greater for satellites nearer the horizon since the path through the atmosphere is longer (see airmass). Once the receiver's approximate location is known, a mathematical model can be used to estimate and compensate for these errors.\nIonospheric delay of a microwave signal depends on its frequency. It arises from ionized atmosphere (see Total electron content). This phenomenon is known as dispersion and can be calculated from measurements of delays for two or more frequency bands, allowing delays at other frequencies to be estimated. Some military and expensive survey-grade civilian receivers calculate atmospheric dispersion from the different delays in the L1 and L2 frequencies, and apply a more precise correction. This can be done in civilian receivers without decrypting the P(Y) signal carried on L2, by tracking the carrier wave instead of the modulated code. To facilitate this on lower cost receivers, a new civilian code signal on L2, called L2C, was added to the Block IIR-M satellites, which was first launched in 2005. It allows a direct comparison of the L1 and L2 signals using the coded signal instead of the carrier wave.\n\nThe effects of the ionosphere generally change slowly, and can be averaged over time. Those for any particular geographical area can be easily calculated by comparing the GPS-measured position to a known surveyed location. This correction is also valid for other receivers in the same general location. Several systems send this information over radio or other links to allow L1-only receivers to make ionospheric corrections. The ionospheric data are transmitted via satellite in Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) such as Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) (available in North America and Hawaii), EGNOS (Europe and Asia) or Multi-functional Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) (Japan), which transmits it on the GPS frequency using a special pseudo-random noise sequence (PRN), so only one receiver and antenna are required.\n\nHumidity also causes a variable delay, resulting in errors similar to ionospheric delay, but occurring in the troposphere. This effect is more localized than ionospheric effects, changes more quickly and is not frequency dependent. These traits make precise measurement and compensation of humidity errors more difficult than ionospheric effects.\n\nThe Atmospheric pressure can also change the signals reception delay, due to the dry gases present at the troposphere (78% N2, 21% O2, 0.9% Ar...). Its effect varies with local temperature and atmospheric pressure in quite a predictable manner using the laws of the ideal gases.\n\nGPS signals can also be affected by multipath issues, where the radio signals reflect off surrounding terrain; buildings, canyon walls, hard ground, etc. These delayed signals cause measurement errors that are different for each type of GPS signal due to its dependency on the wavelength.\n\nA variety of techniques, most notably narrow correlator spacing, have been developed to mitigate multipath errors. For long delay multipath, the receiver itself can recognize the wayward signal and discard it. To address shorter delay multipath from the signal reflecting off the ground, specialized antennas (e.g., a choke ring antenna) may be used to reduce the signal power as received by the antenna. Short delay reflections are harder to filter out because they interfere with the true signal, causing effects almost indistinguishable from routine fluctuations in atmospheric delay.\n\nMultipath effects are much less severe in moving vehicles. When the GPS antenna is moving, the false solutions using reflected signals quickly fail to converge and only the direct signals result in stable solutions.\n\nWhile the ephemeris data is transmitted every 30 seconds, the information itself may be up to two hours old. Variability in solar radiation pressure has an indirect effect on GPS accuracy due to its effect on ephemeris errors. If a fast time to first fix (TTFF) is needed, it is possible to upload a valid ephemeris to a receiver, and in addition to setting the time, a position fix can be obtained in under ten seconds. It is feasible to put such ephemeris data on the web so it can be loaded into mobile GPS devices. See also Assisted GPS.\n\nThe satellites' atomic clocks experience noise and clock drift errors. The navigation message contains corrections for these errors and estimates of the accuracy of the atomic clock. However, they are based on observations and may not indicate the clock's current state.\n\nThese problems tend to be very small, but may add up to a few meters (tens of feet) of inaccuracy.\n\nFor very precise positioning (e.g., in geodesy), these effects can be eliminated by differential GPS: the simultaneous use of two or more receivers at several survey points. In the 1990s when receivers were quite expensive, some methods of \"quasi-differential\" GPS were developed, using only \"one\" receiver but reoccupation of measuring points. At the TU Vienna the method was named \"qGPS\" and post processing software was developed.\n\nThe concept of geometric dilution of precision was introduced in the section, \"error sources and analysis\". Computations were provided to show how PDOP was used and how it affected the receiver position error standard deviation.\n\nWhen visible GPS satellites are close together in the sky (i.e., small angular separation), the DOP values are high; when far apart, the DOP values are low. Conceptually, satellites that are close together cannot provide as much information as satellites that are widely separated. Low DOP values represent a better GPS positional accuracy due to the wider angular separation between the satellites used to calculate GPS receiver position. HDOP, VDOP, PDOP and TDOP are respectively Horizontal, Vertical, Position (3-D) and Time Dilution of Precision.\n\nFigure 3.1 Dilution of Precision of Navstar GPS data from the U.S. Coast Guard provide a graphical indication of how geometry affect accuracy.\n\nWe now take on the task of how to compute the dilution of precision terms. As a first step in computing DOP, consider the unit vector from the receiver to satellite i with components formula_12, formula_13, and formula_14 where the distance from receiver to the satellite, formula_15, is given by:\nwhere formula_17 and formula_18 denote the position of the receiver and formula_19 and formula_20 denote the position of satellite \"i\". These \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" components may be components in a North, East, Down coordinate system a South, East, Up coordinate system or other convenient system. Formulate the matrix \"A\" as:\n\nThe first three elements of each row of \"A\" are the components of a unit vector from the receiver to the indicated satellite. The elements in the fourth column are c where c denotes the speed of light. Formulate the matrix, \"Q\", as\n\nThis computation is in accordance with Chapter 11 of The global positioning system by Parkinson and Spilker where the weighting matrix, \"P\", has been set to the identity matrix. The elements of the \"Q\" matrix are designated as:\n\nThe Greek letter formula_24 is used quite often where we have used \"d\". However the elements of the \"Q\" matrix do not represent variances and covariances as they are defined in probability and statistics. Instead they are strictly geometric terms. Therefore, d as in dilution of precision is used. PDOP, TDOP and GDOP are given by\n\nin agreement with \"Section 1.4.9 of PRINCIPLES OF SATELLITE POSITIONING\".\n\nThe horizontal dilution of precision, formula_26, and the vertical dilution of precision, formula_27, are both dependent on the coordinate system used. To correspond to the local horizon plane and the local vertical, \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" should denote positions in either a North, East, Down coordinate system or a South, East, Up coordinate system.\n\nThe equations for computing the geometric dilution of precision terms have been described in the previous section. This section describes the derivation of these equations. The method used here is similar to that used in \"Global Positioning System (preview) by Parkinson and Spiker\"\n\nConsider the position error vector, formula_28, defined as the vector from the intersection of the four sphere surfaces corresponding to the pseudoranges to the true position of the receiver.formula_29 where bold denotes a vector and formula_30, formula_31, and formula_32 denote unit vectors along the x, y, and z axes respectively. Let formula_33 denote the time error, the true time minus the receiver indicated time. Assume that the mean value of the three components of formula_34 and formula_33 are zero.\n\nwhere formula_37, formula_38, formula_39, and formula_40 are the errors in pseudoranges 1 through 4 respectively. This equation comes from linearizing the Newton-Raphson equation relating pseudoranges to receiver position, satellite positions, and receiver clock errors. Multiplying both sides by formula_41 there results\n\nTransposing both sides:\nPost multiplying the matrices on both sides of equation (2) by the corresponding matrices in equation (3), there results\n\nTaking the expected value of both sides and taking the non-random matrices outside the expectation operator, E, there results:\nAssuming the pseudorange errors are uncorrelated and have the same variance, the covariance matrix on the right side can be expressed as a scalar times the identity matrix. Thus\n\nsince formula_47\n\nNote: formula_48 since formula_49\n\nSubstituting for formula_50 there follows\n\nFrom equation (7), it follows that the variances of indicated receiver position and time are\n\nThe remaining position and time error variance terms follow in a straightforward manner.\n\nGPS included a (currently disabled) feature called \"Selective Availability\" (\"SA\") that adds intentional, time varying errors of up to 100 meters (328 ft) to the publicly available navigation signals. This was intended to deny an enemy the use of civilian GPS receivers for precision weapon guidance.\n\nSA errors are actually pseudorandom, generated by a cryptographic algorithm from a classified \"seed\" key available only to authorized users (the U.S. military, its allies and a few other users, mostly government) with a special military GPS receiver. Mere possession of the receiver is insufficient; it still needs the tightly controlled daily key.\n\nBefore it was turned off on May 2, 2000, typical SA errors were about 50 m (164 ft) horizontally and about 100 m (328 ft) vertically. Because SA affects every GPS receiver in a given area almost equally, a fixed station with an accurately known position can measure the SA error values and transmit them to the local GPS receivers so they may correct their position fixes. This is called Differential GPS or \"DGPS\". DGPS also corrects for several other important sources of GPS errors, particularly ionospheric delay, so it continues to be widely used even though SA has been turned off. The ineffectiveness of SA in the face of widely available DGPS was a common argument for turning off SA, and this was finally done by order of President Clinton in 2000.\n\nDGPS services are widely available from both commercial and government sources. The latter include WAAS and the U.S. Coast Guard's network of LF marine navigation beacons. The accuracy of the corrections depends on the distance between the user and the DGPS receiver. As the distance increases, the errors at the two sites will not correlate as well, resulting in less precise differential corrections.\n\nDuring the 1990–91 Gulf War, the shortage of military GPS units caused many troops and their families to buy readily available civilian units. Selective Availability significantly impeded the U.S. military's own battlefield use of these GPS, so the military made the decision to turn it off for the duration of the war.\n\nIn the 1990s, the FAA started pressuring the military to turn off SA permanently. This would save the FAA millions of dollars every year in maintenance of their own radio navigation systems. The amount of error added was \"set to zero\" at midnight on May 1, 2000 following an announcement by U.S. President Bill Clinton, allowing users access to the error-free L1 signal. Per the directive, the induced error of SA was changed to add no error to the public signals (C/A code). Clinton's executive order required SA to be set to zero by 2006; it happened in 2000 once the U.S. military developed a new system that provides the ability to deny GPS (and other navigation services) to hostile forces in a specific area of crisis without affecting the rest of the world or its own military systems.\n\nOn 19 September 2007, the United States Department of Defense announced that future GPS III satellites will not be capable of implementing SA, eventually making the policy permanent.\n\nAnother restriction on GPS, antispoofing, remains on. This encrypts the \"P-code\" so that it cannot be mimicked by a transmitter sending false information. Few civilian receivers have ever used the P-code, and the accuracy attainable with the public C/A code was much better than originally expected (especially with DGPS). So much so that the antispoof policy has relatively little effect on most civilian users. Turning off antispoof would primarily benefit surveyors and some scientists who need extremely precise positions for experiments such as tracking tectonic plate motion.\n\nA number of sources of error exist due to relativistic effects that would render the system useless if uncorrected. Three relativistic effects are the time dilation, gravitational frequency shift, and eccentricity effects. Examples include the relativistic time \"slowing\" due to the speed of the satellite of about 1 part in 10, the gravitational time dilation that makes a satellite run about 5 parts in 10 \"faster\" than an Earth-based clock, and the Sagnac effect due to rotation relative to receivers on Earth. These topics are examined below, one at a time.\n\nAccording to the theory of relativity, due to their constant movement and height relative to the Earth-centered, non-rotating approximately inertial reference frame, the clocks on the satellites are affected by their speed. Special relativity predicts that the frequency of the atomic clocks moving at GPS orbital speeds will tick more slowly than stationary ground clocks by a factor of formula_54, or result in a delay of about 7 μs/day, where the orbital velocity is v = 4 km/s, and c = the speed of light. The time dilation effect has been measured and verified using the GPS.\n\nThe effect of gravitational frequency shift on the GPS due to general relativity is that a clock closer to a massive object will be slower than a clock farther away. Applied to the GPS, the receivers are much closer to Earth than the satellites, causing the GPS clocks to be faster by a factor of 5×10^(−10), or about 45.9 μs/day. This gravitational frequency shift is noticeable.\n\nWhen combining the time dilation and gravitational frequency shift, the discrepancy is about 38 microseconds per day, a difference of 4.465 parts in 10. Without correction, errors in the initial pseudorange of roughly 10 km/day would accumulate. This initial pseudorange error is corrected in the process of solving the navigation equations. In addition the elliptical, rather than perfectly circular, satellite orbits cause the time dilation and gravitational frequency shift effects to vary with time. This eccentricity effect causes the clock rate difference between a GPS satellite and a receiver to increase or decrease depending on the altitude of the satellite.\n\nTo compensate for the discrepancy, the frequency standard on board each satellite is given a rate offset prior to launch, making it run slightly slower than the desired frequency on Earth; specifically, at 10.22999999543 MHz instead of 10.23 MHz. Since the atomic clocks on board the GPS satellites are precisely tuned, it makes the system a practical engineering application of the scientific theory of relativity in a real-world environment. Placing atomic clocks on artificial satellites to test Einstein's general theory was proposed by Friedwardt Winterberg in 1955.\n\nTo calculate the amount of daily time dilation experienced by GPS satellites relative to Earth we need to separately determine the amounts due to special relativity (velocity) and general relativity (gravity) and add them together.\n\nThe amount due to velocity will be determined using the Lorentz transformation. This will be:\nFor small values of \"v/c\", by using binomial expansion this approximates to:\n\nThe GPS satellites move at relative to Earth's center. We thus determine:\nThis difference below 1 of represents the fraction by which the satellites' clocks move slower than Earth's. It is then multiplied by the number of nanoseconds in a day:\n\nThat is, the satellites' clocks lose 7,214 nanoseconds a day due to special relativity effects.\n\nThe amount of dilation due to gravity will be determined using the gravitational time dilation equation:\n\nFor small values of \"M/r\", by using binomial expansion this approximates to:\n\nWe are again only interested in the fraction below 1, and in the difference between Earth and the satellites. To determine this difference we take:\n\nEarth has a radius of 6,357 km (at the poles) making \"R\" = 6,357,000 m and the satellites have an altitude of 20,184 km making their orbit radius \"R\" = 26,541,000 m. Substituting these in the above equation, with \"M\" = , \"G\" = , and \"c\" = (all in SI units), gives:\nThis represents the fraction by which the satellites' clocks move faster than Earth's. It is then multiplied by the number of nanoseconds in a day:\n\nThat is, the satellites' clocks gain 45,850 nanoseconds a day due to general relativity effects. These effects are added together to give (rounded to 10 ns):\n\nHence the satellites' clocks gain approximately 38,640 nanoseconds a day or 38.6 μs per day due to relativity effects in total.\n\nIn order to compensate for this gain, a GPS clock's frequency needs to be slowed by the fraction:\n\nThis fraction is subtracted from 1 and multiplied by the pre-adjusted clock frequency of 10.23 MHz:\n\nThat is, we need to slow the clocks down from 10.23 MHz to 10.22999999543 MHz in order to negate the effects of relativity.\n\nGPS observation processing must also compensate for the Sagnac effect. The GPS time scale is defined in an inertial system but observations are processed in an Earth-centered, Earth-fixed (co-rotating) system, a system in which simultaneity is not uniquely defined. A coordinate transformation is thus applied to convert from the inertial system to the ECEF system. The resulting signal run time correction has opposite algebraic signs for satellites in the Eastern and Western celestial hemispheres. Ignoring this effect will produce an east–west error on the order of hundreds of nanoseconds, or tens of meters in position.\n\nSince GPS signals at terrestrial receivers tend to be relatively weak, natural radio signals or scattering of the GPS signals can desensitize the receiver, making acquiring and tracking the satellite signals difficult or impossible.\n\nSpace weather degrades GPS operation in two ways, direct interference by solar radio burst noise in the same frequency band or by scattering of the GPS radio signal in ionospheric irregularities referred to as scintillation. Both forms of degradation follow the 11 year solar cycle and are a maximum at sunspot maximum although they can occur at any time. Solar radio bursts are associated with solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) and their impact can affect reception over the half of the Earth facing the sun. Scintillation occurs most frequently at tropical latitudes where it is a night time phenomenon. It occurs less frequently at high latitudes or mid-latitudes where magnetic storms can lead to scintillation. In addition to producing scintillation, magnetic storms can produce strong ionospheric gradients that degrade the accuracy of SBAS systems.\n\nIn automotive GPS receivers, metallic features in windshields, such as defrosters, or car window tinting films can act as a Faraday cage, degrading reception just inside the car.\n\nMan-made EMI (electromagnetic interference) can also disrupt or jam GPS signals. In one well-documented case it was impossible to receive GPS signals in the entire harbor of Moss Landing, California due to unintentional jamming caused by malfunctioning TV antenna preamplifiers. Intentional jamming is also possible. Generally, stronger signals can interfere with GPS receivers when they are within radio range or line of sight. In 2002 a detailed description of how to build a short-range GPS L1 C/A jammer was published in the online magazine Phrack.\n\nThe U.S. government believes that such jammers were used occasionally during the War in Afghanistan, and the U.S. military claims to have destroyed six GPS jammers during the Iraq War, including one that was destroyed with a GPS-guided bomb. A GPS jammer is relatively easy to detect and locate, making it an attractive target for anti-radiation missiles. The UK Ministry of Defence tested a jamming system in the UK's West Country on 7 and 8 June 2007.\n\nSome countries allow the use of GPS repeaters to allow the reception of GPS signals indoors and in obscured locations; while in other countries these are prohibited as the retransmitted signals can cause multi-path interference to other GPS receivers that receive data from both GPS satellites and the repeater. In the UK Ofcom now permits the use of GPS/GNSS Repeaters under a 'light licensing' regime.\n\nDue to the potential for both natural and man-made noise, numerous techniques continue to be developed to deal with the interference. The first is to not rely on GPS as a sole source. According to John Ruley, \"IFR pilots should have a fallback plan in case of a GPS malfunction\". Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring (RAIM) is a feature included in some receivers, designed to provide a warning to the user if jamming or another problem is detected. The U.S. military has also deployed since 2004 their Selective Availability / Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM) in the Defense Advanced GPS Receiver (DAGR). In demonstration videos the DAGR was shown to detect jamming and maintain its lock on the encrypted GPS signals during interference which caused civilian receivers to lose lock.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37949107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37949107", "title": "Gard (Slavic toponymy)", "text": "Gard (Slavic toponymy)\n\nGard or Gord (archaeology). A Slavic term for \"town\", \"city\" or \"castle.\" It's of Pomeranian origin and is in use in contemporary Kashubian language. It survived in such Pomeranian geographical names as:\n\n"}
{"id": "58921461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58921461", "title": "Geology of Croatia", "text": "Geology of Croatia\n\nThe geology of Croatia includes Precambrian rocks, covered over by younger sedimentary rocks and deformed or superimposed by tectonic activity. \n\nPrecambrian rocks only outcrop in the north in between the Sava River and Drava River and include amphibolite schist, micaschist, gneiss and granites. Early Paleozoic rocks include clastic rocks with calcareous intercalations near the Pannonian region and along the Inner Hinterland. Only Ordovician, Silurian and Devonian rocks have been confirmed with fossil evidence. Conglomerate, shale and sandstone are typical of the late Paleozoic. Inliers and overthrusts from this period (Carboniferous-Permian) are up to 3.5 kilometers thick in the Main Dinaric Ridge.\n\nA gap in sedimentation defines the boundary between the Permian and beginning of the Mesozoic in the Triassic. Allochthon dolomite and clastic rocks are common. Early Triassic rocks include siltite, mica, shale, thin limestone, gypsum and dolomite, while shelf limestone, dolomite and ammonite nests are typical of the Middle Triassic. Platy limestone, tuff and andesite from igneous activity are also common in this time frame. \n\nUp to 2.5 kilometers of reef limestone deposited in the Dinaric and Adriatic areas in the Jurassic and Malmian pelagic chert outcrops in the Main Dinaric Ridge. Oceanic rock appears in the Dogger-Malm time with green sandstone, peridotite, serpentinite, spilite, diabase and melaphyre. Platy limestone and chert deposited widely, up to four kilometers thick in the Cretaceous. \n\nCenozoic Paleogene rocks unconformably overlie Cretaceous rocks with bauxite, coal and freshwater limestone, overlain by marine limestone from the Eocene and flysch formed in a trough between two carbonate platforms. Sandstone, marl and limestone deposited in basins now beneath the Adriatic Sea during the Neogene. In the Pannonian area, Neogene material lies on top of older bedrock, emplaced on the periphery of the Paratethys Ocean. Neogene rocks include marl, conglomerate, sandstone, as well as andesite and tuff. In the Drava River valley, the Neogene is seven kilometers thick. Many units contain lignit and oil is found in lower units. Sand and clay from the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary unconformably overlies Neogene rocks beneath the Adriatic. Karst rivers often contain glacial sediments and terra rossa is common both offshore and on the Main Dinaric Ridge. \n\nCroatia is part of the Dinarides. Early tectonic evolution in the Precambrian or Paleozoic is difficult to determine due to reworking in subsequent orogenies. The region's carbonate platform was split by an open sea belt in the Triassic, creating the Adriatic and Dinaric platforms. It resulted in local, intense continental subduction. Ultramafic ophiolite formed with the opening of a branch of the Tethys Ocean in the Cretaceous, followed by magmatic activity. With continued continental subduction in the Paleogene, uplift and the formation of tectonic windows began. The Adriaticum is a carbonate platform structural belt with Mesozoic-Paleogene flysch, chert and limestone superimposed on it. The Supradinaricum forms a nappe on the Dinaricum and are tectonically complex with oceanic rocks underlain by platform deposits. \n\nEvidence of the Carboniferous Variscan orogeny remains in Mt. Papuk in the east. \n\nCoal, oil, gas and water are the leading natural resources in Croatia. The carbonate platform karst landscape of Croatia helped to create the weathering conditions to form bauxite. Anhydrite, gypsum, clay, sand amphibolite, granite, spilite, gabbro, diabase and limestone are all quarried for building. \n"}
{"id": "57127212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57127212", "title": "Geology of Guyana", "text": "Geology of Guyana\n\nGuyana occurs within the northern part of the Guiana Shield.The Guiana Shield forms the northern part of the Amazonian Craton, the core of the South American continent.\n\nMost of the geology of northern Guyana consists of Palaeoproterozoic Orosirian greenstone belts (Barama and Mazaruni Supergroups) intruded by granites. These are overlain unconformably by the Statherian Burro-Burro Group, which consist of the Muruwa Formation sandstones and Iwokrama Formation felsic volcanics. Both are intruded by granites associated with the Iwokrama Formation. Some folding occurred before these were overlain by the locally unconformable almost flat lying Roraima Group.\n\nMajor mafic sills and dykes of the Avanavero Suite intrude all of the older rocks, and are part of a Large Igneous Province (LIP). Numerous mafic dykes intruded the basement in the late Permian and Early Jurassic, associated with the start of the separation of Africa from South America. These are part of the Central Atlantic Magmatic Province (CAMP).\n\nThe northern Guiana Shield, including Guyana is separated from Southern Guiana Shield by ENE to NE trending Tumbes /Guayaquil - Tacutu Tectonic Lineament. This is a major regional pre-Cambrian shear zone / mega-shear which is believed to have been re-activated several times. At the beginning of the Mesozoic when Africa and South America started to separate this re-activated again and was involved in formation of the Takutu Graben in the lower Rupununi area and the Guyana-Suriname basin near the coast and offshore. Both these sedimentary basins have oil potential, and in 2015 significant oil was been found in a deep water area off Guyana. During the Mesozoic the headwaters of the Upper Orinoco and Rio Branco flowed through the Takutu Graben via the Essequibo either to the current river mouth, to the Corentyne, the Berbice or the Canje Rivers. Tilting associated with rifting of the Atlantic Ocean resulted in complex patterns of river capture, so now the headwaters of the Rio Branco flow to the south via the Amazon, and the headwaters of the Upper Orinoco flow to the west and north. Water and sediment volumes directly flowing east are now much reduced.\n"}
{"id": "3793760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793760", "title": "Geology of the Netherlands", "text": "Geology of the Netherlands\n\nThe geology of the Netherlands describes the geological sequence of the Netherlands. Large parts of the Netherlands today are below sea level and have in the past been covered by the sea or flooded at regular intervals. The modern Netherlands formed as a result of the interplay of the four main rivers (Rhine, Meuse, Schelde and IJssel) and the influence of the North Sea. The Netherlands is mostly composed of deltaic, coastal and eolian derived sediments during the Pleistocene glacial and interglacial periods.\n\nFairly all of the west Netherlands is composed of the Rhine-Meuse river estuary, but human intervention greatly modified the natural processes at work. Most of the western Netherlands is below sea level due to the human process of turning standing bodies of water into usable land, a polder.\n\nIn the east of the Netherlands, remains are found of the last ice age, which ended approximately ten thousand years ago. As the continental ice sheet moved in from the north, it pushed moraine forward. The ice sheet halted as it covered the eastern half of the Netherlands. After the ice age ended, the moraine remained in the form a long hill-line. The cities of Arnhem and Nijmegen are built upon these hills.\n\nRocks from the Carboniferous period (360 - 299 mya) outcrop in the southeastern province of Limburg, e.g. in the Heimans quarry. Younger sediments (Permian in age) are not exposed at surface. The subsurface of the Netherlands (including the Dutch sectors of the North Sea) is geologically far more significant especially with respect to the occurrence of oil and gas resources. The Slochteren reservoir rock in Groningen is an eolian sandstone from the Rotliegend (lower Permian). This reservoir has excellent porosity and permeability characteristics and supplies the vast majority of the Dutch natural gas reserves. The lateral equivalent of this reservoir comes at surface near the German town of Bad Bentheim.\n\nThe latest Permian deposits in the area of northwestern Europe was characterised by the laying down of thick successions of rocksalt and anhydrite. This Zechstein stage also comprises dolomites and limestones. The salt is mined in the east of the Netherlands (in villages as Boekelo) and forms an excellent seal over the deeper North Sea reservoirs.\n\nMesozoic rocks are exposed in the Netherlands in the quarry near Winterswijk (Triassic \"Muschelkalk\" limestones). The Jurassic Posidonia Shale is well developed but is buried deep in the West and under the North Sea. It acts as source rock for oil fields in the West Netherlands Basin. During late Jurassic times the Zuidwal volcano was active in a now submerged part of the Netherlands known as the Wadden Sea.\n\nDuring Cretaceous times, most of the Netherlands was covered by a warm shallow (inland) sea in which thick successions of chalk were deposited. This is in places chert-bearing; chalk is mined near the southern city of Maastricht and the Maastrichtian stage was named after this locality. Here a number of mosasaur-fossils have been excavated as well. The Schoonebeek oil-bearing sandstones are Early Cretaceous in age and underlain by hydrocarbon-rich Lower Cretaceous lacustrine Coevorden Formation which forms the source rock for the east Netherlands oil.\n\nThe Cenozoic is characterised by a further shallowing and erosion of earlier sediments. In places a reasonable thickness of Paleocene and Eocene sediments is reached, but most of the subsurface of the Netherlands lack deposits of this age.\n\nThe recent Netherlands is formed by Pleistocene and Holocene age sediments as result of (glacio)-fluvial, eolian and marine sedimentation. Eolian dunes characterise the North Sea coast, a horseshoe-shaped moraine forms the Utrecht Hill Ridge (Dutch: Utrechtse Heuvelrug) and the river influence is still visible all over the Netherlands.\n\nAlthough the Netherlands seems to be a tectonically quiet area, a number of fault activities have been shown in the past. The latest strong earthquake, the 1992 Roermond earthquake (5.4 on Richter scale), had its epicenter close to the Limburg city of Roermond. The south of the Netherlands is topographically higher and is linked to the geology of the Ardennes and the London-Brabant Massif. The Lower Rhine Graben, part of the European Cenozoic Rift System, which has been tectonically active since the Oligocene, affects the southwestern part of the Netherlands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7316314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7316314", "title": "Greater Indonesia", "text": "Greater Indonesia\n\nGreater Indonesia, or in Indonesian and Malaysian, Indonesia Raya or Melayu Raya, was a political concept that sought to bring the so-called Malay race, only part of which were the actual Malays, together by uniting the British territories of Malaya and Borneo with the Dutch East Indies. It was espoused by students and graduates of Sultan Idris Training College for Malay Teachers in the late 1920s, and individuals from Sumatra and Java including Muhammad Yamin and Sukarno in the 1950s. \"Indonesia Raya\" (\"Greater Indonesia\") is also the name of the Indonesian national anthem.\n\nThe Pan-Malay union was based on understandings on similarities in race, shared language, religion and culture among ethnic groups in Maritime Southeast Asia. The ancient concept of \"Alam Melayu\" or \"Nusantara\" advocates an historical awareness that the territory of British Malaya, British Borneo and the Dutch East Indies were once united, to a degree, under native empires such as Srivijaya, Majapahit, the Malacca Sultanate, Johor-Riau Sultanate and various other sultanates in Borneo island.\n\nAt the end of the 1920s, the idea to form a new independent nation grew among the people of Dutch East Indies, especially among educated pribumi (native Indonesian). While in the Malay peninsula, the idea of Greater Malay was proposed. In the Dutch East Indies, the activist youth of Indonesian nationalists were more interested in forming an independent Indonesia. In 1928 the Youth Pledge was declared in Batavia (today Jakarta) by Indonesian nationalist youth activists proclaiming three ideals; one motherland, one nation, and support one unifying language.\n\nThe Malay nationalist Kesatuan Melayu Muda group, founded in 1938 by Ibrahim Hj Yaacob, was one of the more notable entities that embraced the concept as part of its goals.\n\nDuring World War II advocates of Greater Indonesia collaborated with the Japanese against the British and the Dutch. The co-operation was based on the understanding that Japan would unite the Dutch East Indies, Malaya and Borneo and grant them independence. It was understood that under a unified Japanese occupation of these areas, the formation of Greater Indonesia was possible.\n\nIn January 1942, Kesatuan Melayu Muda (KMM) requested the Japanese to grant Malaya the independence the Japanese had promised earlier. This was the first request for Malayan independence by a Malaya-wide political body. The request however was turned down. The Japanese authorities instead disbanded Kesatuan Melayu Muda and established the \"Pembela Tanah Ayer\" (also known as the \"Malai Giyu Gun\" or by its Malay acronym PETA) militia in its stead.\n\nIn July 1945 the KRIS (\"Kesatuan Rakyat Indonesia Semenanjung\") or Indonesian Peninsular People Union, that later the name would be changed to \"Kekuatan Rakyat Indonesia Istimewa\" (Special Indonesian People Force) was formed in British Malaya under the leadership of Ibrahim Yaacob and Dr. Burhanuddin Al-Hemy with the aim to achieve independence from Great Britain and union with Republic of Indonesia. This plan has been consulted with Sukarno and Hatta.\n\nOn 12 August 1945, Ibrahim Yaacob met with Sukarno, Hatta and Dr. Radjiman in Taiping, Perak. Sukarno transited in Taiping airport on his flight back from Saigon back to Jakarta. Previously Sukarno was summoned by Field Marshal Hisaichi Terauchi in Dalat to discuss about the Indonesian independence and to receive direct statement from Terauchi that Japanese Empire permitted the independence of Indonesia. During this meeting Yaacob expressed his intention to unite Malay Peninsula into independent Indonesia. It was in this short conference that Sukarno, flanked by Hatta, shook hands with Ibrahim Yaacob and said, 'Let us form one single Motherland for all the sons of Indonesia'.\n\nHowever, on 15 August 1945 Emperor Hirohito declared the surrender of Japanese Empire through radio broadcast. Promptly, Sukarno and Hatta proclaimed Indonesian Republic independence on 17 August 1945. Accused as collaborator, on 19 August Ibrahim Yaacob flew in Japanese military aeroplane to Jakarta. Yaacob sought refuge in Jakarta with his wife Mariatun Haji Siraj, his in-law Onan Haji Siraj and Hassan Manan. Ibrahim Yaacob that fought for the unity of Malay Peninsula into Indonesia then resides in Jakarta until his death in 1979.\n\nWith the surrender of Japan in August 1945, former Kesatuan Melayu Muda cadres formed the nucleus of the emerging political movements like the Malay Nationalist Party, Angkatan Pemuda Insaf, and Angkatan Wanita Sedar. With the fall of Japanese power in August 1945, and its key advocates are accused as traitors and Japanese collaborators in Malaya, the ideas of the union between the peninsula with Indonesia were faded and almost forgotten in Malay peninsula.\n\nOn the other hand, after the Proclamation of Indonesian Independence, through armed battles in Indonesian National Revolution between 1945–1949, the Republic of Indonesia finally gained recognition of sovereignty from the Netherlands during Dutch–Indonesian Round Table Conference in 1949. While across the straits after Japanese occupation the Malay Peninsula returned to British control.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, the idea of Greater Indonesia was little heard until more than ten years later. In the late 1950s, Sukarno strongly opposed the British decolonisation initiative involving the formation of the Federation of Malaysia that would comprise the Malay Peninsula and North Borneo. That hostile political stance led to the Indonesia–Malaysia Confrontation in the early 1960s that was manifested in an undeclared war with small scale transborder battles and military infiltration in Borneo. Sukarno accused the new nation of Malaysia of being a British puppet state aimed at establishing neo-imperialism and neo-colonialism in Southeast Asia, and also at containing Indonesian ambition to be the regional hegemonic power. However, it was also suggested that Sukarno's campaign against the formation of Malaysia was actually motivated by a desire to unite the Malay Peninsula to complete the previously abandoned idea of Greater Indonesia.\n\nIn late 1965, the failed 30 September Movement coup attempt caused Sukarno to fall from power and General Suharto to seize power in Indonesia. Because of this internal conflict, Indonesia lost its desire to continue its hostile policy against Malaysia, and therefore the war ended. On 28 May 1966, a conference held in Bangkok secured an agreement between the Federation of Malaysia and Republic of Indonesia to resolve the conflict. The violence ended in June, and the peace deal was signed on 11 August and officially recognised two days later. With this treaty, Indonesia and Malaysia officially agreed to be two separate national entities that mutually recognised each other's existence and sovereignty.\n\nAfter the Indonesia-Malaysia peace deal, Indonesia was occupied with its own domestic problems building its economy while tried to maintain its unity as a diverse and plural nation. As a result, during the reign of Suharto freedom and democracy were sacrificed in the name of national stability and unity. In 1975 Indonesia annexed the former Portuguese colony of East Timor that finally achieved independence from Indonesia in 1999. Indonesia suffered various problems ranging from economic crisis, separatist movements in Aceh and Papua, to the problem of terrorism. Indonesia is more interested in defining itself as Indonesian by trying to develop national character building, to define themselves as pluralist nation encapsulated in Bhinneka Tunggal Ika (unity in diversity) under Pancasila as national ideology with territorial claim only spanned from Sabang in Aceh to Merauke in Papua. As the largest nation in Southeast Asia, Indonesia seems to be satisfied on channelling its regional ambition through assuming leadership role among ASEAN countries.\n\nOn the other side, Malaysia was struggling on national building and facing problems regarding the national format alternatives; between leftist republic fighter and rightist traditional royalist. The remnants of Kesatuan Melayu Muda — the advocate of unification with Indonesia, which had been fighting for the independence for Malaya, aspired for the formation of Greater Indonesia or Greater Malay, to join the republic and encourage to overthrow the monarchy. However, at that time the majority of Malays supported the traditional institution of the Malay rulers (Malay Kingship) and Islam as national ideology; which led to the prominence of United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), which fought to uphold the traditional institution of the Malay Rulers and the special status of Islam.\n\nThe national unity issues in Malaysia also has been aggravated with inter-racial tensions, especially between the Malay majority with Chinese and Hindu Indian minorities, the problem that plagued Malaysian politics up until now. The racial issue and the disagreement on citizenship and privileged issues between Bumiputra and Chinese and Indian Malaysian is the very problems that has caused the separation of Singapore from Malaysia back in the 1960s. By the end of the 1960s, UMNO gained domination in Malaysian politics, while their rival, the advocate of the republic and the union with Greater Indonesia, are stigmatised as leftists, communists or even traitors. In North Borneo, the Brunei royals chose not to follow Sarawak and Sabah on forming the Malaysia and remained under British protection until 1984.\n\nWith both parties kept busy and being occupied in their own problems, taking their own path of national systems; the ideal of a grand union that united the whole so-called Malay race under one great national entity called Greater Malay or Greater Indonesia has finally faded away, ceased to exist and remain irredentist.\n\n"}
{"id": "295410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295410", "title": "Index of Albania-related articles", "text": "Index of Albania-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Albania include:\n\n"}
{"id": "233958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233958", "title": "Index of Mongolia-related articles", "text": "Index of Mongolia-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Mongolia include:\n\n\"Individual administrative districts are listed in Sums of Mongolia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54711355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54711355", "title": "John Francon Williams", "text": "John Francon Williams\n\nJohn Francon Williams FRGS (1854 – 4 September 1911) was a Welsh writer, geographer, historian, journalist, cartographer and inventor, born in Llanllechid, Caernarvonshire. His seminal work was \"The Geography of the Oceans\".\n\nJohn Francon Williams was the second son of Richard Williams (b. 1818 Llanllechid) and his wife Mary (b. 1822 Denbighshire). Richard and Mary were blessed with two further sons William (b. 1843) and Henry (b. 1858), and two daughters, Mary Jr. (b. 1857) and Grace (b. 1862). All the siblings were born in Llanllechid, North Wales. The Williams family first lived at Cenfaes Terrace and then, as the family grew larger, moved to a stone cottage at 5 Pencennant (\"Pen-y-ceunant\"), one of a row of traditional terraced stone cottages in Llanllechid, where all their immediate neighbours were also named Williams. The cottages positioned on a gentle slope had views directly overlooking the Ogwen Valley and the Snowdonian Mountains in the distance. Richard worked nearby as a slate quarryman (most probably) in Penrhyn Quarry located north of Bethesda overlooking the River Ogwen. The Quarry was owned and run by the wealthy Dawkins-Pennant family, who also owned Penrhyn Castle and most of the land in the area. Over time, Richard Williams was promoted to the role of 'Overlooker' (a term used in the 19th century for a superintendent or overseer) at the slate quarry where he worked. \n\nDuring the next decade an increase of population in the area arose due to the extension of slate and stone quarrying. In the Imperial Gazetteer of England and Wales (published in 1870-2), Llanllechid is described as thus: \"Llanllechid, a village, a parish, and a sub-district in Bangor district, Carnarvon. The village stands near the river Ogwen, 3½ miles SW by S of Aber r. station, and 3½ SE of Bangor; and has a post office under Bangor, and a fair on 29 October.\"\n\nJohn and his two brothers and two sisters all attended the local school, where John showed a particularly strong aptitude and interest in Geography and History. By the mid-1870s, as a young adult, John moved away from Wales to Northampton where he took up a post as a school teacher. It was in Northampton that John met his future wife, Barbara.\n\nOn 8 July 1876, John married Barbara Balmain Dougall at St. Giles Church, Northampton. The newlyweds first home together was at Palmerston Road, Northampton. Over the succeeding years John and Barbara had five children: four sons; John Balmain, (b. 1877, Northampton), Aeneas Francon Williams (b. 1886, Liscard, Cheshire), David Dougal Williams (b. 1888, Liscard), and George Stanley (b. 14 April 1890, at Hope Place in the Georgian Quarter of Liverpool) – and one daughter; Margaret Mary Ann (b. 1891, Liscard.) George was baptised on 25 May 1890. During this period the family moved house frequently and resided at Hope Place, Liverpool and in Liscard at 2 Massey Park, Wallasey, Chester, in order to remain close to Liverpool where John had begun a career as a journalist and as a subsequent editor on a local Liverpool newspaper. Also during the early 1880s, John's sister Mary and his brother Henry left the Williams' family home in Llanllechid. Only John's sister Grace, who now had a career as a dressmaker, remained living with her parents at the family home. In 1885, Grace married Welsh-born Robert William Williams (1861-1931) in Bethesda, North Wales, hence Grace and her future siblings retained the Williams surname. \nIn 1891, John's father, mother and a brother died (most probably due to the influenza epidemic that spread across Wales and Northern England), and in December that same year John and Barbara's young daughter Margaret Mary Ann Williams also died and was buried on 30 December at Massey Park. In late 1891, Grace and Robert and their two young children, Robert Henry (b. 1886) and William John (b. 1888) emigrated to the USA arriving in New York in January 1892. The family settled in Granville, Washington, New York.\nBarbara Balmain Dougall was born in 1851 in Dunning, Perthshire, Scotland. She was one of seven children (Aeneas, David, Margaret, Isabella, Ann, Mary and Barbara) to John and Ann Dougall. John Dougall was a handloom weaver and his wife Ann was a cotton winder. Though most of the Dougall children entered the weaving trade, Aeneas became a teacher.\n\nJohn Francon Williams worked as a journalist and editor on various newspapers and journals in Liverpool. In 1876 Williams was elected a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nWilliams started his publishing career in Liverpool under the guidance of the renowned cartographer and map publisher George Philip. George Philip & Son published maps and educational books, and in 1881 they published Williams's first book, \"A Class-Book of Modern Geography\", with examination questions, notes & index. The book was written in collaboration with cartographer Professor William Hughes (geographer) FRGS, and became the first publication in a successful run of works over the coming two decades by Williams for the publishing house George Philip & Son. Between 1881 and 1893, George Philip & Son published twelve English editions of \"A Class-Book of Modern Geography\".\nGeorge Philip (1800–1882) and his son George Jr (1823–1902), ran George Philip & Son, and when George Philip Sr retired on 1 July 1879 George Philip Jr took control of the business. The publishing house produced geographical and educational publications and operated from Caxton Buildings in Liverpool, and from 30–32 Fleet Street in London.\n\n\"Further expansion was prompted by the demand from board schools established after 1870 for general textbooks, school stationery and equipment, and specialist atlases and wall maps. The firm also supplied atlases and textbooks for many overseas countries in several languages.\"\nGeorge Philip Jr spotted a gap in the market for quality school textbooks, and over the following two decades Williams wrote and edited over forty books that sold worldwide.\n\nThe Geography of the Oceans\n\nIn 1881, Williams's seminal book \"The Geography of the Oceans\" was published.\n\"The Geography of the Oceans\" focuses on topics such as: General Geography of the Oceans, Physical Geography of the Oceans, the Geography of Particular Oceans. The various sections focus on: the distribution of land and water, oceanic river-systems, the salts of the sea, the density, color and phosphorescence of the sea, distribution of marine life, temperature of the ocean, movements of the ocean, sidereal movements or tides, of the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Antarctic and the Arctic Ocean. It was the first book to cover with such intensity the geography of the oceans. 'A valuable little book entitled \"The Geography of the Oceans\", which may be regarded almost as a new departure in geographical science,' claimed the book reviewer in \"The Cornish Telegraph\", who continued, \"I have found the book as fascinating as one of Jules Verne's novels.\" The \"Daily Gazette\" called it, \"A new geographical work of great importance\".\n\nIn 1881, Williams and his family moved to West Derby in Lancashire, where they lived at 52 Bonsall Road.\n\nGeorge Philip & Son employed three in-house cartographers: John Bartholomew the elder, William Hughes (geographer) and August Petermann. They were regarded as Europe's finest cartographers. As well as being a good friend of John Bartholomew J., Williams was also a friend of the Scottish journalist and writer John Geddie. In June 1882 Williams, with cartographer John Bartholomew junior, nominated Geddie as a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society. Williams was also acquainted with Edwin Ransom, owner of Kempston Mill, Bedford, Mayor of Bedford 1855–56, and proprietor of the \"Bedfordshire Times\" 1872–79. Ransom nominated Williams as a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in March 1876.\n\nWilliams also tried his hand as an inventor. One of his inventions (of which there were two different designs) was a new spaced measuring rule or scale, registered and patented on 21 April 1884. The measuring rule was applicable in printing, painting, embossing or similar. He also patented several other inventions including, ‘pencils with moveable leads’ and ‘pen-and-ink holders’ registered in 1883, ‘letter clips and files’ and additional ‘pencils with moveable leads’ registered in 1884, and ‘educational appliances’ in 1885 \n\nOn 29 December 1885, John F. Williams attended the first annual children's Athletic Fete and Industrial Exhibition, held at the Liverpool Gymnasium in Myrtle Street under the auspices of the Liverpool Council of Education and School Board. Williams judged the Map Drawing category and the Penmanship category. Over 900 entries were received for the different categories, and many of the books and paint-box prizes were gifted by George Philip & Son, Liverpool.\n\nIn 1887, Philips published \"Philip's Handy Volume Atlas of the World\" by William Hughes (geographer) and John Francon Williams. The pocket book contained 110 maps and plans all finely tinted, accompanied by statistical notes and other information. The \"Leeds Mercury\" said; \"It would hardly be possible to find greater excellence in so convenient a form as we have in \"Philip's Handy Volume Atlas of the World.\"\" ‘The volume deserves to have a wide circulation,’ stated the \"Liverpool Mercury\", and declared, \"In fact, it is quite a little geographical library in itself.\" Williams dedicated the book to the President of the Royal Geographical Society, Lord Aberdare, Henry Austin Bruce, 1st Baron Aberdare. A glowing review of \"Philips' Handy Volume and Atlas of the World\" appeared in the \"West London Observer\" on Saturday 23 July 1887: \"In days when the facilities of locomotion are such that everybody runs about the world, and the process of what popularly known as 'globe-trotting' goes on to an extraordinary extent and in a systematic manner, a comprehensive volume, small, compact, admirably arranged, clearly printed and well bound, and which can be carried in the pocket, like that published by Messrs. Philip & Son of Liverpool and London, is entitled to be regarded as a special boon. Containing more than a hundred maps with brief but succinct notes and a capital index, the different countries of the world are revealed in all essential particulars with luminous perspicacity. The maps are fine specimens of engraving, and the letterpress clear and distinct. The author is Mr. J. Francon Williams FRGS and his name will be a sufficient guarantee for the correctness of the data furnished up to the period of publication. The production of this most useful work must have entailed a large outlay, but it cannot be doubted that, as it will supply a popular want, the sale will be enormous, and fully compensate the enterprising publishers for the cost and trouble incurred. We earnestly recommend the 'Handy Volume', not alone to travellers, but to all who have occasion in connection with literary pursuits, or the prosecution of business, 'to survey mankind from China to Peru,' or over those wider districts, which a century ago were practically beyond even a poets pen.\"\n\nIn the late 1880s, Williams worked in conjunction with the publisher and editor George Newnes (Sir George Newnes, 1st Baronet) – now regarded as the founding father of popular journalism – during the years when Newnes was building his publishing empire. It was during this period that Williams also founded his own publication.\n\nIn 1887, Williams founded and edited the monthly magazine, \"Stories Illustrated\".\n\nIn 1888, Philips' published several geographical atlases they named 'Handy-Volumes' compiled and written by Williams that were distributed widely worldwide; ‘All these compact and clearly-printed miniature works, suitable for pocket or desk, and rightly named ‘Handy-Volumes’ are supplied with indexes, and geographical, statistical and historical notes, carefully gathered by Mr. J. Francon Williams FRGS.’ \n\nIn America, John’s history books were introduced into the school curriculum where they remained for many years. Forever the businessman, on 4 July 1888, Williams wrote a letter from Liverpool to the politician and educator Hon. George William Ross in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, in which Williams included as a gift a copy of his recently published \"Atlas of British America\". Williams was hoping to break into the Canadian market. Ross was at that time the Minister of Education for Ontario in the Liberal government of Sir Oliver Mowat and oversaw the purchase of schoolbooks for the province. In the letter, Williams writes, ‘Permit me to beg your kind acceptance of the accompanying copy of our little \"Atlas of British America\", and also to ask you to examine it with a view to its authorization for use in the public schools and colleges of your province.’ In 1899, Ross became the Premier of Ontario. Whether, Ross ordered a shipment of \"Atlas of British America\" is not documented, but Williams’ attraction to Canada appears to have commenced from around this period.\n\nIn November 1889, John Francon Williams was introduced to HRH Albert Edward, Prince of Wales. During their meeting Williams presented the Prince of Wales with a copy of his 1887 book, \"Philips' Handy-volume Atlas of the British Empire\". The copy is housed in The Royal Collection Trust at Windsor Castle, along with other John Francon Williams books.\nOn 15 December 1890, the Council of the London branch of the Froebel Society – (established in 1874 to teach and validate school examinations and teaching training courses at kindergarten level, applying German educator Friedrich Frobel’s methods) – passed a resolution to publish a new monthly journal titled \"Child Life,\" dedicated to kindergarten education. The first publication priced at three pence was issued in January 1891. John Francon Williams was one of the first contributors to the journal writing articles in the January and February editions covering the tutoring of geography. In his articles Williams emphasizes the importance of maps in the study of geography and accents the necessity for children to learn the art of map reading. ‘Geography for all practical purposes of life is embodied in maps,’ and follows on by declaring, ‘Maps are to geography what notation is to music.’ He advises the prospective teacher that; ‘Every lesson must be thoughtfully and thoroughly prepared, and the more elementary the lesson the greater, and really, the need of careful preparation. Not everyone is a born teacher, but everyone engaged in teaching may, by diligent study and perseverance, gain by art what he has not by nature, and no subject affords such opportunities for the exercise and display of skill in the art of teaching as geography.’ George Philip & Son were the appointed publishers of the journal, an association that continued until 1934, after which the Froebel Society published the journal in house. Original copies of \"Child Life\" are housed at the University of Roehampton, London, and can be accessed via their Froebel Archive Digital Collection. The journal is now regarded as a significant and rich source of material for its era regarding the influencing of kindergarten study and policy making, and for researchers interested in the Froebel Society and the Froebel Movement.\n\nDuring 1891, Philip’s issued a series of Map-Drawing Books titled appropriately, \"Philips’ Series of Map-Drawing Books\" written and compiled by J. Francon Williams. A series of 24 books in two different editions were published; the Imperial at 13 in. by 11 in. priced at 6d, or the slightly smaller Crown edition at 10 in. by 8 in. priced at 3d. Each book contained a complete full-coloured map and an uncoloured map for the student to colour in and to complete names etc., an outline map with coastlines and lines of latitude and longitude, and a blank sheet with the border of only the map. The books allowed the student to draw the maps repeatedly. During the same year, Philip’s also published a completely new set of three Grammar School Atlases edited by Williams: \"Philip’s Grammar School Atlas No. 1\", for preparatory students with 15 full-coloured maps, \"Philip’s Grammar School Atlas No. 2\", for junior students with 30 full-coloured maps, and \"Philip’s Grammar School Atlas No. 3\" for senior students containing 75 full-coloured maps. The atlases were referred to as being, ‘undoubtedly the finest examples of small atlases for ordinary school use ever issued.’\n\nAlso in 1891, Philip's published, \"Philips’ Picturesque History of England\" (with notes and three hundred illustrations and maps) by J. Francon Williams. The book retailed at 5s. A review in the \"Scotsman\" praised Williams for his ‘unflagging vivacity and narrative power. Incidents and characters are depicted in their true proportions.’ ‘The book is appropriately named in more ways than one. It tells the story of the English people - their growth, the development of their national institutions, the establishment of their worldwide empire, the achievements of their great monarchs, warriors, statesmen and writers, the social and economic conditions of the nation at various epochs. A distinctive feature of the work is the number and excellence of the illustrations.’\nIn 1893, George Philip & Son published the 866-page tome, \"A Compendium of Modern Geography - Physical - Political - Commercial\", by William Hughes and John Francon Williams. Williams writes in the preface of the book, ‘This work, as the tile implies, is designed for the use of advanced students, and also as a work of reference for those who are engaged in teaching geography.’ Compiling the book was a mammoth undertaking. ‘All the Countries of the World, as well as the Continents, are described in a sufficiently exhaustive manner to meet the requirements of almost all examinations in geography. Due prominence has been given to the Mountain and River Systems and other natural features; the present political condition of each State is indicated and, bearing in mind the fact the study of Commercial geography is daily becoming of greater importance, the Industry and Trade of the principal countries are dealt with in considerable detail.’ Williams goes on to assure the reader, 'In the preparation of this work the best and most recent British and foreign authorities have been consulted, and no pains have been spared to make the book a reliable exponent of the geographical knowledge of the present day.' It was Williams that compiled, edited and wrote the majority of the book as William Hughes (geographer) had passed away seventeen years earlier in 1876.\n\nIn the decade prior to the arrival of \"Pears' Cyclopaedia\" (1897), a much smaller work measuring 135 x 105 mm was available. It sold for sixpence in cloth, or one shilling in leather hardback, and was extremely popular, selling 800,000 copies by 1896. Eli Lemon Sheldon (pen-name Dom Lemon) compiled the book. Its success led its publisher to create a series of similar little books that sold equally well. Number 36 in the series was \"A World Gazetteer\" compiled by John Francon Williams. Williams' revised version had the same atlas, with slightly larger maps. George Philip & Son printed the book.\n\nIn 1896, with Williams' increase in wealth he moved his family yet again, this time to a freehold property in Mount Pleasant Road in Wallasey, which he named Balmain, after his wife, whose middle name was Balmain.\n\nBy late 1898, the Williams family had moved yet again and were now living in a detached house, \"Fairlight\", in Forest Avenue, Chingford, London.\n\nIn later life John Francon Williams focused his career on being a Publishers Representative (Agent). He would travel to Edinburgh, Birmingham, Liverpool, Leicester, Manchester, London and also abroad, primarily the United States and Canada, pursuing and securing contracts for publishing houses. One of the houses he acted for in Edinburgh was John Bartholomew and Son, which now belonged to his longtime friend, John George Bartholomew. Williams' eldest son, John Jr, would accompany his father on some of these trips. John Jr, was noted as being a sickly child, \"who is much troubled with asthma and bronchitis.\" In 1899, Williams’s friend Sir Alfred Lewis Jones of Messrs Elder, Dempster & Co., (a Liverpool, ship-owner) kindly gave Williams’s son John Jr a voyage on one of his steamers to New Orleans, in the hope that it would help with his medical condition.\n\nOne of the prime reasons why Williams travelled to the United States was to try and set up an Anglo-American Syndicate, which would help promote publishers, publishing houses and their products. Williams discusses this matter in a handwritten letter to his friend John George Bartholomew. Here he mentions his \"unavoidable connection\" with map-maker George Washington Bacon, with whom he is working with on several projects, both editorial and administrative, and hopes that his friend Sir Alfred Lewis Jones (the millionaire ship-owner) might be interested in becoming a financial partner in the Syndicate. Williams was particularly keen to publish a Physical Atlas worldwide through the syndicate.\n\nIn 1899, Williams was commissioned by Mazawattee (publishers) to write a Gazetteer Pocket Atlas containing 9,000 to 10,000 places. Williams was also commissioned by Alfred Harmsworth, (later 1st Viscount Northcliffe), founder of the \"Harmsworth Magazine\" (later known as the \"London Magazine\"), to write a series of articles. His first article, published at the start of 1900, was entitled \"Then and Now: 1800–1900, Why This is the Most Wonderful Century in Time\". It was written to commemorate the advancement in engineering during the 19th century and to welcome in the 20th century.\n\nOn 20 July 1900, John Francon Williams travelled to Boston, Massachusetts, from Liverpool aboard the SS \"Winifredian\".\n\nIn 1901, by the time George Philip Jr had retired from George Philip & Son, Williams had moved his family yet again, to 22 Queens Grove Road, Chingford in Essex.\n\nIn 1901/02, the Williams family relocated yet again, this time to Clackmannan in Scotland, possibly for Barbara to be closer to her sisters, Ann and Margaret Dougall, along with whom they resided in Clackmannan at Mains House. Both were spinsters and died within a few days of one another, Ann Dougall on 17 March 1903 and Margaret Dougall three days later on 20 March 1903 (one day after her sister's burial). The sisters are buried next to each other in the old cemetery in Clackmannan. The sisters brother Aeneas Dougall (who died on 24 March 1897) is also buried there.\n\nJohn Francon Williams travelled to New York City, leaving on 19 March 1904 from Liverpool aboard the SS \"Etruria\". He travelled as a representative for various publishing houses.\n\nJohn's wife Barbara died in Clackmannan on 24 November 1909 at the family home, Mains House. She was buried alongside her sisters and brother in the old cemetery in Clackmannan. She died from cancer of the liver.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, 24 December 1910, the overnight express train from London to Glasgow departed at midnight from St Pancras Station, with scheduled stops at Manchester, Leeds, Skipton, etc. The train consisted of four timber-bodied coaches, two sleeping cars and two brake vans and a locomotive. John Francon Williams and his eldest son John Williams Jr. happened to be in Manchester attending to publishing business on 24 December and had arranged to spend Christmas Day with relatives and friends in Clackmannan in the Central Lowlands of Scotland. They decided to catch the overnight express train at Manchester, so that they could enjoy Christmas festivities in Clackmannan.\n\nAt 19 minutes to six in the morning, close to Hawes Junction, the express train travelling at high speed smashed into an oncoming locomotive. The express train concertina'd and careered off the tracks. Except for two electrically lit sleeping cars, the coaches were lit by the Pintsch oil gas system. The impact broke the gas pipe in one of the front carriages and an explosion followed. Fire spread quickly through the wooden carriages killing twelve trapped and injured passengers.\n\nThe \"Dundee Courier\" on Tuesday 27 December in their coverage of the Hawes Junction rail crash reported: \"The news of the disaster occasioned considerable anxiety to the relatives of Mr John Francon Williams, a prominent and highly-respected resident of Clackmannan. Mr Williams and his eldest son Mr John Williams, were in business in Manchester, and had sent word to their friends in Clackmannan that they intended to travel North with the night express so as to arrive home on Saturday morning for Christmas. The fact that they did not put in an appearance in Clackmannan on Saturday, coupled with the news of the disaster, naturally aroused fears for their safety in the minds of their waiting relatives. Telegraphic communication was opened up with the hotel in Manchester where Mr Williams had been staying, and yesterday (26 December) it was ascertained that, though the father and son had fully intended travelling with the ill-fated express, through pressure of business they had been compelled to postpone their departure till Monday evening, an arrangement, which, in the light of what subsequently occurred, may be regarded as providential.\" \n\nBy 1911 John's landscape had changed dramatically. He was now boarding at 25 St. Stephen's Road, Leicester, with the Grimsley family; widow Fanny Grimsley and her three unmarried daughters, Eliza aged 37, Jane aged 25, and Martha aged 21. Also boarding at the handsome 7-roomed property were four female lodgers. John was at this point in his career working as a Publishers Representative (agent) and still traveling extensively. \n\nJohn Francon Williams died from a brain haemorrhage on 4 September 1911 in the County Hospital, Alloa, and is buried in an unmarked grave beside his wife in Clackmannan Cemetery in Clackmannanshire, Scotland.\nHe is identified as having had 42 published works in 79 publications in the World Catalogue (WorldCat).\n\nDuring World War I, John Francon Williams' eldest son, John Balmain Williams, enlisted in the Royal Scots (Lothian Regiment) 12th Battalion and was killed in action on 25 April 1918 at the 2nd Battle of Kemmel at Lagache Farm, west of Wytschaete in Flanders, Belgium, along with 100 men of the 12th Battalion Royal Scots. John B. Williams is remembered in the Roll of Honour at the Royal Scots Memorial in the Hall of Honour at The Scottish National War Memorial located in Edinburgh Castle, Edinburgh, and at Tyne Cot Cemetery and Memorial located at West-Vlaanderen, in Belgium.\n\nJohn Francon Williams is also the father of George Stanley Williams (died 23 July 1954, Dundee District, Angus, Scotland), Aeneas Francon Williams (missionary, writer, poet, etc.), and David Dougal Williams (artist and art teacher), and the great-grandfather of writer Iain Cameron Williams.\n\nIn 2016, the independent Australian retailer \"Readings\" said of Williams’ \"The Geography of the Oceans\"; ‘This work has been selected by scholars as being culturally important, and is part of the knowledge base of civilization as we know it.’\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29653568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29653568", "title": "Karl Kořistka", "text": "Karl Kořistka\n\nKarl Kořistka (also Carl Kořistka, in Czech: Karel Kořistka, 7 February 1825 – 18 January 1906) was a Czech geographer, cartographer, mathematician and professor.\n\nKořistka studied geography and mathematics in Vienna, and at an early age became a student at the school of mining and forestry at Banská Štiavnica. In 1851, he became professor of mathematics and geodesy in the German polytechnical school at Prague. He exerted a wide influence in the development of the technical and professional schools of Austria. He was also much occupied in orographical and hypsometrical studies and explored several of the mountainous regions of Europe, where he obtained a large number of levels and heights.\nFrom 1867 to 1869, he was a representative in the Diet of Bohemia and in the Vienna Reichsrat.\n\nBesides numerous memoirs, mostly written in German and in French, he wrote for many reviews and journals. Among his principal works may be mentioned:\n"}
{"id": "15638441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15638441", "title": "Lewiston–Clarkston metropolitan area", "text": "Lewiston–Clarkston metropolitan area\n\nThe Lewiston–Clarkston metropolitan area, officially the Lewiston, ID–WA Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the United States Census Bureau, is an area consisting of two counties – one in the Idaho Panhandle and the other in eastern Washington, anchored by the cities of Lewiston, Idaho and Clarkston, Washington. As of the 2010 census, the MSA had a population of 60,888 (though a July 1, 2011 estimate placed the population at 61,476), making it the 3rd smallest metropolitan area in the United States.\nThe cities of Lewiston and Clarkston are named after Meriwether Lewis and William Clark (of the Lewis and Clark expedition), respectively.\n\n\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 57,961 people, 23,650 households, and 15,803 families residing within the MSA. The racial makeup of the MSA was 93.01% White, 0.25% African American, 3.88% Native American, 0.60% Asian, 0.06% Pacific Islander, 0.55% from other races, and 1.66% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.94% of the population.\n\nThe median income for a household in the MSA was $34,903, and the median income for a family was $42,402. Males had a median income of $35,249 versus $24,616 for females. The per capita income for the MSA was $18,146.\n\n"}
{"id": "35813415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35813415", "title": "List of French art works in the National Museum of Serbia", "text": "List of French art works in the National Museum of Serbia\n\nThe French Art Collection in National Museum of Serbia consists of more than 250 paintings and more than 400 graphics and drawings, from the 16th to early 20th century, including the \"Šlomović Collection\" (58 paintings and over 200 graphics). Among the French painters represented in the collection are Robert Tournières, Hubert Robert, Sébastien Bourdon, Eugène Delacroix, Gauguin, Renoir, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Matisse, Monet, Cézanne, Degas, Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, Mary Cassatt, Paul Signac, Maurice Utrillo, Auguste Rodin, Georges Rouault, Pierre Bonnard, Pissarro, Odilon Redon, Gustave Moreau, Honoré Daumier, Eugène Carrière, Maurice de Vlaminck, André Derain, Raoul Dufy, Suzanne Valadon, Eugène Fromentin, Émile Bernard, Forain, André Dunoyer de Segonzac, Robert Delaunay, Pascin, Rosa Bonheur, Marie Laurencin, Georges Dufrénoy. The graphic and etching collection includes work by Charles Le Brun, Sébastien Bourdon, Jacques Callot, Charles-François Daubigny, Degas, Delacroix, Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, Le Corbusier (3 graphic), Renoir, Jean Cocteau, Eugène Carrière, etc. .\n\nSome of the works are:\n\n"}
{"id": "49605639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49605639", "title": "List of Pig Goat Banana Cricket episodes", "text": "List of Pig Goat Banana Cricket episodes\n\n\"Pig Goat Banana Cricket\" is an American animated television series on Nickelodeon. Created by Dave Cooper and Johnny Ryan, the series follows the adventures of the eponymous characters Pig (Matt L. Jones), Goat (Candi Milo), Banana (Thomas F. Wilson), and Cricket (Paul Rugg). Most episodes present the escapades of the four characters separately until they meet at the end. The first season premiered on July 16, 2015. Nickelodeon has commissioned a second season.\n\nThe second season of the show were moved to sister network Nicktoons. The show ended on August 11, 2018.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nThe episodes below are listed in the order they were originally broadcast.\n\nThis season aired on Nicktoons.\n\n"}
{"id": "40092608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40092608", "title": "List of Polish supercentenarians", "text": "List of Polish supercentenarians\n\nThis list includes Polish supercentenarians (people from Poland who have attained the age of at least 110 years). As of , there is one living supercentenarian in Poland. The oldest verified person ever in Poland is Tekla Juniewicz of Silesian Voivodeship who was born on 10 June 1906 and is still living at the age of .\n\nThis is a list of supercentenarians who have died or are living in present-day Poland.<br>\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "22067883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22067883", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Botswana", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Botswana\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Botswana excluding honorary consulates. The capital Gaborone currently hosts 19 embassies and 3 consulates. The city is also host to several international organizations. Most of the diplomatic missions that cover Botswana are in South Africa.\n\nMost of the accredited embassies to Botswana are in Pretoria, South Africa. However, some are in Zimbabwe, Zambia, Ethiopia or Namibia. Some of the following may have honorary consulates in Botswana.\n\n"}
{"id": "51443485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51443485", "title": "List of lighthouses in Aruba", "text": "List of lighthouses in Aruba\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Aruba.\n\n"}
{"id": "7293290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7293290", "title": "List of quaternary mammalian fauna of China", "text": "List of quaternary mammalian fauna of China\n\nList of mammalian fauna of China\n\nA list of archaeologically important quaternary mammalian fauna of Northern China:\n\n\n\"Zhongguo da baike quanshu: Kaoguxue\" [Big Chinese Encyclopedia, vol.: Archaeology], Beijing: Zhongguo da baike quanshu, 1986\n"}
{"id": "22194368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22194368", "title": "List of turtles of Africa", "text": "List of turtles of Africa\n\nThis is an incomplete list of turtles and tortoises found in Africa.\n"}
{"id": "4055380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4055380", "title": "Mameria", "text": "Mameria\n\nMameria is an area of high-altitude jungle to the northeast of the Paucartambo range in southeast Peru, drained by the Mameria river, an affluent of the Nistrón river. Until the 1960s this remote and sparsely populated area would have been considered a part of the Callanga jungle area. Machiguenga peoples, fleeing the slavery that they were subject to along the Yavero river, fled to this area which acquired its current name from the Machiguenga observing that \"mameri,\" which means \"there are none,\" regarding the lack of fish in the river.\n\nMameria has pre-Columbian stone ruins that are the remains of ancient Incan coca plantations, some of which were sacked by the Peruvian helicopter-borne General Ludwig Essenwanger in 1980, a year after the area was first brought to the attention of the outside world by the also helicopter-borne expedition made by French-Peruvian explorers Herbert and Nicole Cartagena, guided by Peruvian campesino/adventurer Goyo Toledo. The Cartagena's book, \"Paititi, dernier refuge des Incas\" (1981) recounts their expedition of their search for the lost city of Paititi.\n\nIn 1980 Goyo Toledo returned—on foot—to Mameria, the first known person since the ancient Incans to do so. The next year his brother Gabino, and Guillermo Mamani, made their way to Mameria to look for, and find, Goyo. In 1983 an architect/adventurer from Cusco, César Vilchez, his nephew César Medina, Carlos Cartagena, and Manuel Guevarra found their way to Mameria in a grueling two-month journey during which they nearly perished from hunger. Between 1984 and 1989 the American explorer Gregory Deyermenjian made five expeditions to Mameria—for three of which he was accompanied by Peruvian explorer Paulino Mamani H.—conducting anthropological as well as archaeological research concerning the area's Machiguenga inhabitants and ancient archaeological remains.\n\nIn the mid-1990s the Peruvian adventurer Darwin Moscoso made a long journey to Mameria, later producing a fine map of the area. An in-depth review of the history and archaeology of Mameria can be found in Deyermenjian's article \"Mameria: An Incan Site Complex in the High-Altitude Jungles of Southeast Peru\", in the Volume 3 Number 4 (2003) issue of Athena Review. Deyermenjian sees Mameria as having functioned as an Incan frontier settlement, providing coca to the Incas of the highlands in pre-Conquest times, which became totally forgotten after the fall of the highland Incas to the Spaniards, protected until even now by its remote location, difficulty of access, and the difficulty of life there.\n"}
{"id": "10397282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10397282", "title": "Metres above sea level", "text": "Metres above sea level\n\nMetres above mean sea level (MAMSL) or simply metres above sea level (MASL or m a.s.l.) is a standard metric measurement in metres of the elevation or altitude of a location in reference to a historic mean sea level. Mean sea levels are affected by climate change and other factors and change over time. For this and other reasons, recorded measurements of elevation above sea level might differ from the actual elevation of a given location over sea level at a given moment.\n\nMetres above sea level is the standard measurement of the elevation or altitude of:\n\nThe elevation or altitude in metres above sea level of a location, object, or point can be determined in a number of ways. The most common include:\n\nAccurate measurement of historical mean sea levels is complex. Land mass subsidence (as occurs naturally in some islands) can give the appearance of rising sea levels. Conversely, markings on land masses that are uplifted due to geological processes can suggest a lowering of mean sea level.\n\nFeet above sea level is the most common analogue for metres above sea level in the US customary measurement system.\n\nMetres above sea level is commonly abbreviated mamsl or MAMSL, based on the abbreviation AMSL for above mean sea level. Other abbreviations are m.a.s.l. and MASL.\n\n"}
{"id": "50927102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50927102", "title": "Meulen", "text": "Meulen\n\nMeulen is a Dutch toponymic surname meaning \"mill\" (modern Dutch \"molen\"). Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34593162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34593162", "title": "Ndesha", "text": "Ndesha\n\nNdesha is a commune of the city of Kananga in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "38334360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38334360", "title": "Odikyo", "text": "Odikyo\n\nOdikyo is a GPS based real-time runner tracking service for family and friends. Odikyo means 'to run' in the South Indian language, Malayalam. User's operate Odikyo using a device-specific application while running. Friends and family can view the user in real-time via runner ID on the Odikyo website. The use of Odikyo is not limited to marathon running as it can be used for other activities like jogging, walking, or cycling. The unique runner id is shared privately with friends and family, users can also post this on Twitter and Facebook directly from the app.\n\nOdikyo create individual webpages for various marathons integrating information about marathon routes, mile markers, start and finish points and other important locations like water stations and toilets along the marathon route. The map interface provide information about the runner's current location and real-time stats provide information about runner's pace, expected finish time, and distance remaining. Odikyo also does marathon photography and provides the photos on the Odikyo website and the Odikyo Facebook page where the users are free to view and download.\n\nTo help friends and family see the location and other relevant information about the runner as the marathon is happening in real-time.\n\nOdikyo can be downloadable from Google Play Store.\n\nThe application will soon be uploaded at iPhone & iPod App Store.\n\n"}
{"id": "21890955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21890955", "title": "Outline of Bermuda", "text": "Outline of Bermuda\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Bermuda:\n\nBermuda – a British overseas territory located in the North Atlantic Ocean. Located off the east coast of the United States, it is situated around 1770 km (1,100 mi) northeast of Miami, Florida, and 1350 km (840 mi) south of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. The nearest landmass is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, about 1030 km (640 mi) west-northwest. Bermuda is the oldest and most populous remaining British overseas territory, having been settled by English forces a century before the Acts of Union created the Kingdom of Great Britain. Bermuda has a highly affluent economy, with a large financial sector and tourism industry giving it the world's highest GDP per capita in 2005. It has a subtropical climate, beaches with pink sand, and cerulean blue ocean.\n\n\nGeography of Bermuda\n\n\n\nRegions of Bermuda\n\nList of ecoregions in Bermuda\n\nAdministrative divisions of Bermuda (9 Parishes)\n\nMunicipalities of Bermuda\n\nDemographics of Bermuda\n\nPolitics of Bermuda\n\nGovernment of Bermuda\n\n\nCourt system of Bermuda\n\nForeign relations of Bermuda\n\nThe government of the Bermuda Islands is a member of:\n\nLaw of Bermuda\n\nMilitary of Bermuda\n\nLocal government in Bermuda\n\nHistory of Bermuda\n\nCulture of Bermuda\n\n\nSports in Bermuda\n\nEconomy of Bermuda\n\nEducation in Bermuda\n\nBermuda\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3996332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3996332", "title": "Plunge pool", "text": "Plunge pool\n\nA plunge pool (or plunge basin or waterfall lake) is a deep depression in a stream bed at the base of a waterfall or shut-in. It is created by the erosional forces of cascading water on the rocks at formation's base where the water impacts. The term may refer to the water occupying the depression, or the depression itself.\n\nPlunge pools are formed by the natural force of falling water, such as at a waterfall or cascade; they also result from man-made structures such as some spillway designs. Plunge pools are often very deep, generally related to the height of fall, the volume of water, the resistance of the rock below the pool and other factors. The impacting and swirling water, sometimes carrying rocks within it, abrades the riverbed into a basin, which often features rough and irregular sides. Plunge pools can remain long after the waterfall has ceased flow or the stream has been diverted. Several examples of former plunge pools exist at Dry Falls in the Channeled Scablands of eastern Washington.\n\nPlunge pools are fluvial features of erosion which occur in the youthful stage of river development, characterized by steeper gradients and faster water flows. Where softer or fractured rock has been eroded back to a knickpoint, water continues to bombard its base. Because this rock is often less resistant than overlying strata, the water from the higher elevation continues eroding downward until an equilibrium is achieved.\n\nA somewhat similar bowl-shaped feature developed by flowing water, as opposed to falling water, is known as a scour hole. These occur both naturally and as a result of bridge building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127684", "title": "Polar ice cap", "text": "Polar ice cap\n\nA polar ice cap or polar cap is a high-latitude region of a planet, dwarf planet, or natural satellite that is covered in ice.\n\nThere are no requirements with respect to size or composition for a body of ice to be termed a polar ice cap, nor any geological requirement for it to be over land; only that it must be a body of solid phase matter in the polar region. This causes the term \"polar ice cap\" to be something of a misnomer, as the term ice cap itself is applied more narrowly to bodies that are over land, and cover less than 50,000 km: larger bodies are referred to as ice sheets.\n\nThe composition of the ice will vary. For example, Earth's polar caps are mainly water ice, whereas Mars's polar ice caps are a mixture of solid carbon dioxide and water ice.\n\nPolar ice caps form because high-latitude regions receive less energy in the form of solar radiation from the Sun than equatorial regions, resulting in lower surface temperatures.\n\nEarth's polar caps have changed dramatically over the last 12,000 years. Seasonal variations of the ice caps takes place due to varied solar energy absorption as the planet or moon revolves around the Sun. Additionally, in geologic time scales, the ice caps may grow or shrink due to climate variation.\n\nEarth's North Pole is covered by floating pack ice (sea ice) over the Arctic Ocean. Portions of the ice that do not melt seasonally can get very thick, up to 3–4 meters thick over large areas, with ridges up to 20 meters thick. One-year ice is usually about 1 meter thick. The area covered by sea ice ranges between 9 and 12 million km. In addition, the Greenland ice sheet covers about 1.71 million km and contains about 2.6 million km³ of ice. When the ice breaks off (calves) it forms icebergs scattered around the northern Atlantic.\n\nAccording to the National Snow and Ice Data Center, \"since 1979, winter Arctic ice extent has decreased about 4.2 percent per decade\". Both 2008 and 2009 had a minimum Arctic sea ice extent somewhat above that of 2007. At other times of the year the ice extent is still sometimes near the 1979–2000 average, as in April 2010, by the data from the National Snow and Ice Data Center. Still, between these same years, the overall average ice coverage appears to have declined from 8 million km to 5 million km.\n\nEarth's south polar land mass, Antarctica, is covered by the Antarctic ice sheet. It covers an area of about 14.6 million km and contains between 25 and 30 million km of ice. Around 70% of the fresh water on Earth is contained in this ice sheet.\n\nData from the National Snow and Ice Data Center shows that the sea ice coverage of Antarctica has a slightly positive trend over the last three decades (1979–2009).\n\nOver the past several decades, Earth’s polar ice caps have gained significant attention because of the alarming decrease in land and sea ice. NASA reports that since the late 1970s, the Arctic has lost an average of 20,800 square miles (53,900 square kilometers) of ice per year while the Antarctic has gained an average of 7,300 square miles (18,900 km) of ice per year. On September 19, 2014, for the first time since 1979, Antarctic sea ice extent exceeded 7.72 million square miles (20 million square kilometers), according to the National Snow and Ice Data Center. The ice extent stayed above this benchmark extent for several days. The average maximum extent between 1981 and 2010 was 7.23 million square miles (18.72 million square kilometers). The single-day maximum extent in 2014 was reached on Sept. 20, according to NSIDC data, when the sea ice covered 7.78 million square miles (20.14 million square kilometers). The 2014 five-day average maximum was reached on Sept. 22, when sea ice covered 7.76 million square miles (20.11 million square kilometers), according to NSIDC.\n\nThe current rate of decline of the ice caps has caused many investigations and discoveries on glacier dynamics and their influence on the world’s climate. In the early 1950s, scientists and engineers from the US Army began drilling into polar ice caps for geological insight. These studies resulted in “nearly forty years of research experience and achievements in deep polar ice core drillings... and established the fundamental drilling technology for retrieving deep ice cores for climatologic archives.” Polar ice caps have been used to track current climate patterns but also patterns over the past several thousands years from the traces of CO2 and CH4 found trapped in the ice. In the past decade, polar ice caps have shown their most rapid decline in size with no true sign of recovery. Josefino Comiso, a senior research scientist at NASA, found that the “rate of warming in the Arctic over the last 20 years is eight times the rate of warming over the last 100 years.” In September 2012, sea ice reached its smallest size ever. Journalist John Vidal stated that sea ice is \"700,000 sq km below the previous minimum of 4.17m sq km set in 2007\". In August 2013, Arctic sea ice extent averaged 6.09m km, which represents 1.13 million km below the 1981–2010 average for that month.\n\nIn addition to Earth, the planet Mars also has polar ice caps. They consist of primarily water-ice with a few percent dust. Frozen carbon dioxide makes up a small permanent portion of the Planum Australe or the South Polar Layered Deposits. In both hemispheres a seasonal carbon dioxide frost deposits in the winter and sublimes during the spring.\n\nData collected in 2001 from NASA missions to Mars show that the southern residual ice cap undergoes sublimation inter-annually. The most widely accepted explanation is that fluctuations in the planet's orbit are causing the changes.\n\nOn April 29, 2015, NASA stated that its New Horizons missions had discovered a feature thought to be a polar ice cap on the dwarf planet Pluto. The probe's flyby of Pluto in July 2015 allowed the \"Alice\" ultraviolet imaging spectrometer to confirm that the feature was in fact an ice cap composed of methane and nitrogen ices.\n\n"}
{"id": "412343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412343", "title": "Provinces of Afghanistan", "text": "Provinces of Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan is made up of 34 provinces ( \"wilåyat\"). The provinces of Afghanistan are the primary administrative divisions. Each province encompasses a number of districts or usually over 1,000 villages. \n\nProvincial governments are led by a governor who is appointed by the President of Afghanistan. Each province is represented in the government of Afghanistan by two members in the House of Elders. One is elected by the provincial council to a four-year term while the second is elected by the district councils to a three-year term. Representation in the House of the People is directly from the districts, although in each province, two or more of the representatives must be women. They are appointed by the President of Afghanistan. \n\nProvincial governors have played a critical role in the reconstruction of the Afghan state following the creation of the new government under Hamid Karzai. According to international security scholar, Dipali Mukhopadhyay, many of the provincial governors are former warlords who have been incorporated into the political system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14579135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14579135", "title": "Retail geography", "text": "Retail geography\n\nRetail geography is the study of where to place retail stores based on where their customers are. The use of retail geography has grown significantly in the past decade as a result of the use of geographic information systems (GIS).\n\n"}
{"id": "4804597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804597", "title": "Retreat of glaciers since 1850", "text": "Retreat of glaciers since 1850\n\nThe retreat of glaciers since 1850 affects the availability of fresh water for irrigation and domestic use, mountain recreation, animals and plants that depend on glacier-melt, and, in the longer term, the level of the oceans. Studied by glaciologists, the temporal coincidence of glacier retreat with the measured increase of atmospheric greenhouse gases is often cited as an evidentiary underpinning of global warming. Mid-latitude mountain ranges such as the Himalayas, Alps, Rocky Mountains, Cascade Range, and the southern Andes, as well as isolated tropical summits such as Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa, are showing some of the largest proportionate glacial losses.\n\nGlacier mass balance is the key determinant of the health of a glacier. If the amount of frozen precipitation in the accumulation zone exceeds the quantity of glacial ice lost due to melting or in the ablation zone a glacier will advance; if the accumulation is less than the ablation, the glacier will retreat. Glaciers in retreat will have negative mass balances, and if they do not find an equilibrium between accumulation and ablation, will eventually disappear.\n\nThe Little Ice Age was a period from about 1550 to 1850 when the world experienced relatively cooler temperatures compared to the present. Subsequently, until about 1940, glaciers around the world retreated as the climate warmed substantially. Glacial retreat slowed and even reversed temporarily, in many cases, between 1950 and 1980 as global temperatures . Since 1980, a significant global warming has led to glacier retreat becoming increasingly rapid and ubiquitous, so much so that some glaciers have disappeared altogether, and the existences of many of the remaining glaciers are threatened. In locations such as the Andes of South America and Himalayas in Asia, the demise of glaciers in these regions has the potential to affect water supplies in those areas.\n\nThe retreat of mountain glaciers, notably in western North America, Asia, the Alps and tropical and subtropical regions of South America, Africa and Indonesia, provide evidence for the rise in global temperatures since the late 19th century. The acceleration of the rate of retreat since 1995 of key outlet glaciers of the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets may foreshadow a rise in sea level, which would affect coastal regions.\n\nThe mass balance, or difference between accumulation and ablation (melting and sublimation), of a glacier is crucial to its survival. Climate change may cause variations in both temperature and snowfall, resulting in changes in mass balance. A glacier with a sustained negative balance loses equilibrium and retreats. A sustained positive balance is also out of equilibrium and will advance to reestablish equilibrium. Currently, nearly all glaciers have a negative mass balance and are retreating.\n\nGlacier retreat results in the loss of the low-elevation region of the glacier. Since higher elevations are cooler, the disappearance of the lowest portion decreases overall ablation, thereby increasing mass balance and potentially reestablishing equilibrium. If the mass balance of a significant portion of the accumulation zone of the glacier is negative, it is in disequilibrium with the climate and will melt away without a colder climate and or an increase in frozen precipitation.\n\nMethods for measuring retreat include staking terminus location, global positioning mapping, aerial mapping and laser altimetry. The key symptom of disequilibrium is thinning along the entire length of the glacier. This indicates a diminishment of the accumulation zone. The result is marginal recession of the accumulation zone margin, not just of the terminus. In effect, the glacier no longer has a consistent accumulation zone and without an accumulation zone cannot survive. For example, Easton Glacier in Washington state, U.S. will likely shrink to half its size but at a slowing rate of reduction and stabilize at that size despite the warmer temperature over a few decades. However, the Grinnell Glacier in Montana, U.S. will shrink at an increasing rate until it disappears. The difference is that the upper section of Easton Glacier remains healthy and snow-covered, while even the upper section of the Grinnell Glacier is bare, is melting and has thinned. Small glaciers with minimal altitude range are most likely to fall into disequilibrium with the climate.\n\nMiddle latitude glaciers are located either between the Tropic of Cancer and the Arctic Circle, or between the Tropic of Capricorn and the Antarctic Circle. Both areas support glacier ice from mountain glaciers, valley glaciers and even smaller icecaps, which are usually located in higher mountainous regions. All are located in mountain ranges, notably the Himalayas; the Alps; the Pyrenees; Rocky Mountains and Pacific Coast Ranges of North America; the Patagonian Andes in South America; and mountain ranges in New Zealand. Glaciers in these latitudes are more widespread and tend to be greater in mass the closer they are to the polar regions. They are the most widely studied over the past 150 years. As with examples located in the tropical zone, virtually all the glaciers in the mid-latitudes are in a state of negative mass balance and are retreating.\n\nIn France all six of the major glaciers in that country are in retreat. On Mont Blanc, the highest peak in the Alps, the Argentière Glacier has receded since 1870. Other Mont Blanc glaciers have also been in retreat, including the Mer de Glace, which is the largest glacier in France at in length but retreated between 1994 and 2008. The glacier has retreated since the end of the Little Ice Age. The Bossons Glacier once extended from the summit of Mont Blanc at to an elevation of in 1900. By 2008 Bossons Glacier had retreated to a point that was above sea level.\n\nOther researchers have found that glaciers across the Alps appear to be retreating at a faster rate than a few decades ago. In a paper published in 2009 by the University of Zurich, the Swiss glacier survey of 89 glaciers found 76 retreating, 5 stationary and 8 advancing from where they had been in 1973. The Trift Glacier had the greatest recorded retreat, losing of its length between the years 2003 and 2005. The Grosser Aletsch Glacier is the largest glacier in Switzerland and has been studied since the late 19th century. Aletsch Glacier retreated from 1880 to 2009. This rate of retreat has also increased since 1980, with 30%, or , of the total retreat occurring in the last 20% of the time period. The Morteratsch Glacier in Switzerland has had one of the longest periods of scientific study with yearly measurements of the glacier's length commencing in 1878. The overall retreat from 1878 to 1998 has been with a mean annual retreat rate of approximately per year. This long-term average was markedly surpassed in recent years with the glacier receding per year during the period between 1999–2005. Similarly, of the glaciers in the Italian Alps, only about a third were in retreat in 1980, while by 1999, 89% of these glaciers were retreating. In 2005, the Italian Glacier Commission found that 123 glaciers in Lombardy were retreating. A random study of the Sforzellina Glacier in the Italian Alps indicated that the rate of retreat from 2002 to 2006 was much higher than in the preceding 35 years. To study glaciers located in the alpine regions of Lombardy, researchers compared a series of aerial and ground images taken from the 1950s through the early 21st century and deduced that between the years 1954-2003 the mostly smaller glaciers found there lost more than half of their area. Repeat photography of glaciers in the Alps indicates that there has been significant retreat since studies commenced.\n\nThough the glaciers of the Alps have received more attention from glaciologists than in other areas of Europe, research indicates that glaciers in northern Europe are also retreating. Since the end of World War II, Storglaciären in Sweden has undergone the longest continuous mass balance study in the world conducted from the Tarfala research station. In the Kebnekaise Mountains of northern Sweden, a study of 16 glaciers between 1990 and 2001 found that 14 glaciers were retreating, one was advancing and one was stable. In Norway, glacier studies have been performed since the early 19th century, with systematic surveys undertaken regularly since the 1990s. Inland glaciers have had a generally negative mass balance, whereby during the 1990s, maritime glaciers showed a positive mass balance and advanced. The maritime advances have been attributed to heavy snowfall in the period 1989-1995. However, reduced snowfall since has caused most Norwegian glaciers to retreat significantly. A survey of 31 Norwegian glaciers in 2010 indicated that 27 were in retreat, one had no change and three advanced. Similarly, in 2013, of 33 Norwegian glaciers surveyed, 26 were retreating, four showed no change and three advanced. Engabreen Glacier in Norway, an outlet glacier of the Svartisen ice cap, had several advances in the 20th century, though it retreated between 1999 and 2014. Brenndalsbreen glacier retreated between the years 2000 and 2014, while the Rembesdalsskåka glacier, which has retreated since the end of the Little Ice Age, retreated between 1997–2007. The Briksdalsbreen glacier retreated between 1996 and 2004 with of that in the last year of that study; the greatest annual retreat recorded on that glacier since studies began there in 1900. This figure was exceeded in 2006 with five glaciers retreating over from the fall of 2005 to the fall of 2006. Four outlets from the Jostedalsbreen ice cap, the largest body of ice in continental Europe, Kjenndalsbreen, Brenndalsbreen, Briksdalsbreen and Bergsetbreen had a frontal retreat of more than . Overall, from 1999 to 2005, Briksdalsbreen retreated . Gråfjellsbrea, an outlet glacier of the Folgefonna ice cap, had a retreat of almost .\n\nIn the Spanish Pyrenees, recent studies have shown important losses in extent and volume of the glaciers of the Maladeta massif during the period 1981–2005. These include a reduction in area of 35.7%, from to , a loss in total ice volume of and an increase in the mean altitude of the glacial termini of . For the Pyrenees as a whole 50–60% of the glaciated area has been lost since 1991. The Balaitus, Perdigurero and La Munia glaciers have disappeared in this period. Monte Perdido Glacier has shrunk from 90 hectares to 40 hectares.\n\nAs initial cause for glacier retreat in the alps since 1850, a decrease of the glaciers albedo, caused by industrial black carbon can be identified. According to a report, this may have accelerated the retreat of glaciers in Europe which otherwise may have continued to expand until approximately the year 1910.\n\nSiberia is typically classified as a polar region, owing to the dryness of the winter climate and has glaciers only in the high Altai Mountains, Verkhoyansk Range, Cherskiy Range and Suntar-Khayata Range, plus possibly a few very small glaciers in the ranges near Lake Baikal, which have never been monitored and may have completely disappeared since 1989. Between the years 1952 and 2006, the glaciers found in the Aktru Basin region shrank by 7.2 percent. This shrinkage has been primarily in the ablation zone of the glaciers, with recession of several hundred meters being observed for some glaciers. The Altai region has also experienced an overall temperature increase of 1.2 degrees Celsius in the last 120 years according to a report from 2006, with most of that increase occurring since the late 20th century.\n\nIn the more maritime and generally wetter Russian Far East, Kamchatka, exposed during winter to moisture from the Aleutian Low, has much more extensive glaciation totaling around with 448 known glaciers as of 2010. Despite generally heavy winter snowfall and cool summer temperatures, the high summer rainfall of the more southerly Kuril Islands and Sakhalin in historic times melt rates have been too high for a positive mass balance even on the highest peaks. In the Chukotskiy Peninsula small alpine glaciers are numerous, but the extent of glaciation, though larger than further west, is much smaller than in Kamchatka, totalling around .\n\nDetails on the retreat of Siberian and Russian Far East glaciers less adequate than in most other glaciated areas of the world. There are several reasons for this, the principal one being that since the collapse of Communism there has been a large reduction in the number of monitoring stations. Another factor is that in the Verkhoyansk and Cherskiy Ranges it was thought glaciers were absent before they were discovered during the 1940s, whilst in ultra-remote Kamchatka and Chukotka, although the existence of glaciers was known earlier, monitoring of their size dates back no earlier than the end of World War II. Nonetheless, available records do indicate a general retreat of all glaciers in the Altai Mountains with the exception of volcanic glaciers in Kamchatka. Sakha’s glaciers, totaling seventy square kilometers, have shrunk by around 28 percent since 1945 reaching several percent annually in some places, whilst in the Altai and Chukotkan mountains and non-volcanic areas of Kamchatka, the shrinkage is considerably larger.\n\nThe Himalayas and other mountain chains of central Asia support large glaciated regions. An estimated 15,000 glaciers can be found in the greater Himalayas, with double that number in the Hindu Kush and Karakoram and Tien Shan ranges, and comprise the largest glaciated region outside the poles. These glaciers provide critical water supplies to arid countries such as Mongolia, western China, Pakistan, Afghanistan and India. As with glaciers worldwide, those of the greater Himalayan region are experiencing a decline in mass, and researchers claim that between the early 1970s and early 2000s, there had been a 9 percent reduction in ice mass. Change in temperature has led to melting and the formation and expansion of glacial lakes which could cause an increase in the number of glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs). If the present trends persist the ice mass will gradually be reduced, and will affect the availability of water resources, though water loss is not expected to cause problems for many decades.\n\nIn the Wakhan Corridor of Afghanistan 28 of 30 glaciers examined retreated significantly between 1976–2003, with an average retreat of per year. One of these glaciers, the Zemestan Glacier, retreated during this period, not quite 10% of its length. In examining 612 glaciers in China between 1950 and 1970, 53% of the glaciers studied were retreating. After 1990, 95% of these glaciers were measured to be retreating, indicating that retreat of these glaciers was becoming more widespread. Glaciers in the Mount Everest region of the Himalayas are all in a state of retreat. The Rongbuk Glacier, draining the north side of Mount Everest into Tibet, has been retreating per year. In the Khumbu region of Nepal along the front of the main Himalaya of 15 glaciers examined from 1976–2007 all retreated significantly and the average retreat was per year. The most famous of these, the Khumbu Glacier, retreated at a rate of per year from 1976–2007. In India, the Gangotri Glacier retreated between the years 1936 and 1996 with of that retreat occurring in the last 25 years of the 20th century. However, the glacier is still over long. In Sikkim, 26 glaciers examined between the years 1976 and 2005 were retreating at an average rate of per year. \nOverall, glaciers in the Greater Himalayan region that have been studied are retreating an average of between annually. The only region in the Greater Himalaya that has seen glacial advances is in the Karakoram Range and only in the highest elevation glaciers, but this has been attributed possibly increased precipitation as well as to the correlating glacial surges, where the glacier tongue advances due to pressure build up from snow and ice accumulation further up the glacier. Between the years 1997 and 2001, long Biafo Glacier thickened mid-glacier, however it did not advance.\n\nWith the retreat of glaciers in the Himalayas, a number of glacial lakes have been created. A growing concern is the potential for GLOFs researchers estimate 21 glacial lakes in Nepal and 24 in Bhutan pose hazards to human populations should their terminal moraines fail. One glacial lake identified as potentially hazardous is Bhutan's Raphstreng Tsho, which measured long, wide and deep in 1986. By 1995 the lake had swollen to a length of , in width and a depth of . In 1994 a GLOF from Luggye Tsho, a glacial lake adjacent to Raphstreng Tsho, killed 23 people downstream.\n\nGlaciers in the Ak-shirak Range in Kyrgyzstan experienced a slight loss between 1943 and 1977 and an accelerated loss of 20% of their remaining mass between 1977 and 2001. In the Tien Shan mountains, which Kyrgyzstan shares with China and Kazakhstan, studies in the northern areas of that mountain range show that the glaciers that help supply water to this arid region, lost nearly of ice per year between 1955 and 2000. The University of Oxford study also reported that an average of 1.28% of the volume of these glaciers had been lost per year between 1974 and 1990.\n\nThe Pamirs mountain range located primarily in Tajikistan, has approximately eight thousand glaciers, many of which are in a general state of retreat. During the 20th century, the glaciers of Tajikistan lost of ice. The long Fedchenko Glacier, which is the largest in Tajikistan and the largest non-polar glacier on Earth, retreated between the years 1933 and 2006, and lost of its surface area due to shrinkage between the years 1966 and 2000. Tajikistan and neighboring countries of the Pamir Range are highly dependent upon glacial runoff to ensure river flow during droughts and the dry seasons experienced every year. The continued demise of glacier ice will result in a short-term increase, followed by a long-term decrease in glacial melt water flowing into rivers and streams.\n\nNorth American glaciers are primarily located along the spine of the Rocky Mountains in the United States and Canada, and the Pacific Coast Ranges extending from northern California to Alaska. While Greenland is geologically associated with North America, it is also a part of the Arctic region. Apart from the few tidewater glaciers such as Taku Glacier, in the advance stage of their tidewater glacier cycle prevalent along the coast of Alaska, virtually all of those in North America are in a state of retreat. This rate has increased rapidly since around 1980, and overall each decade since has seen greater rates of retreat than the preceding one. There are also small remnant glaciers scattered throughout the Sierra Nevada mountains of California and Nevada.\n\nThe Cascade Range of western North America extends from southern British Columbia in Canada to northern California. Excepting Alaska, about half of the glacial area in the U.S. is contained within the over 700 glaciers of the North Cascades, a portion of those located between the Canada–US border and I-90 in central Washington. These contain much water as is found in all the lakes and reservoirs in the rest of the state, and provide much of the stream and river flow in the dry summer months, approximating some .\nAs recently as 1975 many North Cascade glaciers were advancing due to cooler weather and increased precipitation that occurred from 1944 to 1976. By 1987 the North Cascade glaciers were retreating and the pace had increased each decade since the mid-1970s. Between 1984 and 2005 the North Cascade glaciers lost an average of more than in thickness and 20–40 percent of their volume.\n\nGlaciologists researching the North Cascades found that all 47 monitored glaciers are receding while four glaciers—Spider Glacier, Lewis Glacier, Milk Lake Glacier and David Glacier—have disappeared completely since 1985. The White Chuck Glacier (near Glacier Peak) is a particularly dramatic example. The glacier area shrank from in 1958 to by 2002. Between 1850 and 1950, the Boulder Glacier on the southeast flank of Mount Baker retreated . William Long of the United States Forest Service observed the glacier beginning to advance due to cooler/wetter weather in 1953. This was followed by a advance by 1979. The glacier again retreated from 1987 to 2005, leaving barren terrain behind. This retreat has occurred during a period of reduced winter snowfall and higher summer temperatures. In this region of the Cascades, winter snowpack has declined 25% since 1946, and summer temperatures have risen 0.7 °C (1.2 °F) during the same period. The reduced snowpack has occurred despite a small increase in winter precipitation—thus, it reflects warmer winter temperatures leading to rainfall and melting on glaciers even during the winter. As of 2005, 67% of the North Cascade glaciers observed are in disequilibrium and will not survive the continuation of the present climate. These glaciers will eventually disappear unless temperatures fall and frozen precipitation increases. The remaining glaciers are expected to stabilize, unless the climate continues to warm, but will be much reduced in size.\n\nOn the sheltered slopes of the highest peaks of Glacier National Park in Montana, the eponymous glaciers are diminishing rapidly. The area of each glacier has been mapped for decades by the National Park Service and the U.S. Geological Survey. Comparing photographs from the mid-19th century with contemporary images provides ample evidence that they have retreated notably since 1850. Repeat photography since clearly show that glaciers such as Grinnell Glacier are all retreating. The larger glaciers are now approximately a third of their former size when first studied in 1850, and numerous smaller glaciers have disappeared completely. Only 27% of the area of Glacier National Park covered by glaciers in 1850 remained covered by 1993. Researchers believe that by the year 2030, the vast majority of glacial ice in Glacier National Park will be gone unless current climate patterns reverse their course. Grinnell Glacier is just one of many glaciers in Glacier National Park that have been well documented by photographs for many decades. The photographs below clearly demonstrate the retreat of this glacier since 1938.\n\nThe semiarid climate of Wyoming still manages to support about a dozen small glaciers within Grand Teton National Park, which all show evidence of retreat over the past 50 years. Schoolroom Glacier is located slightly southwest of Grand Teton is one of the more easily reached glaciers in the park and it is expected to disappear by 2025. Research between 1950 and 1999 demonstrated that the glaciers in Bridger-Teton National Forest and Shoshone National Forest in the Wind River Range shrank by over a third of their size during that period. Photographs indicate that the glaciers today are only half the size as when first photographed in the late 1890s. Research also indicates that the glacial retreat was proportionately greater in the 1990s than in any other decade over the last 100 years. Gannett Glacier on the northeast slope of Gannett Peak is the largest single glacier in the Rocky Mountains south of Canada. It has reportedly lost over 50% of its volume since 1920, with almost half of that loss occurring since 1980. Glaciologists believe the remaining glaciers in Wyoming will disappear by the middle of the 21st century if the current climate patterns continue.\n\nIn the Canadian Rockies, glaciers are generally larger and more widespread than to the south in the Rocky Mountains. One of the more accessible in the Canadian Rockies is the Athabasca Glacier, which is an outlet glacier of the Columbia Icefield. The Athabasca Glacier has retreated since the late 19th century. Its rate of retreat has increased since 1980, following a period of slow retreat from 1950 to 1980. The Peyto Glacier in Alberta covers an area of about , and retreated rapidly during the first half of the 20th century, stabilized by 1966, and resumed shrinking in 1976.\nThe Illecillewaet Glacier in British Columbia's Glacier National Park (Canada), part of the Selkirk Mountains (west of the Rockies) has retreated since first photographed in 1887.\n\nIn Garibaldi Provincial Park in Southwestern British Columbia over , or 26%, of the park, was covered by glacier ice at the beginning of the 18th century. Ice cover decreased to by 1987–1988 and to by 2005, 50% of the 1850 area. The loss in the last 20 years coincides with negative mass balance in the region. During this period all nine glaciers examined have retreated significantly.\n\nThere are thousands of glaciers in Alaska but only few have been named. The Columbia Glacier near Valdez in Prince William Sound has retreated in the last 25 years. Its calved icebergs partially caused the Exxon Valdez oil spill, when the tanker changed course to avoid the ice tips. The Valdez Glacier is in the same area, and though it does not calve, has also retreated significantly. \"A 2005 aerial survey of Alaskan coastal glaciers identified more than a dozen glaciers, many former tidewater and calving glaciers, including Grand Plateau, Alsek, Bear, and Excelsior Glaciers that are rapidly retreating. Of 2,000 glaciers observed, 99% are retreating.\" Icy Bay in Alaska is fed by three large glaciers—Guyot, Yahtse, and Tyndall Glaciers—all of which have experienced a loss in length and thickness and, consequently, a loss in area. Tyndall Glacier became separated from the retreating Guyot Glacier in the 1960s and has retreated since, averaging more than per year.\n\nThe Juneau Icefield Research Program has monitored outlet glaciers of the Juneau Icefield since 1946. On the west side of the ice field, the terminus of the Mendenhall Glacier, which flows into suburban Juneau, Alaska, has retreated . Of the nineteen glaciers of the Juneau Icefield, eighteen are retreating, and one, the Taku Glacier, is advancing. Eleven of the glaciers have retreated more than since 1948 — Antler Glacier, ; Gilkey Glacier, ; Norris Glacier, and Lemon Creek Glacier, . Taku Glacier has been advancing since at least 1890, when naturalist John Muir observed a large iceberg calving front. By 1948 the adjacent fjord had filled in, and the glacier no longer calved and was able to continue its advance. By 2005 the glacier was only from reaching Taku Point and blocking Taku Inlet. The advance of Taku Glacier averaged per year between 1988 and 2005. The mass balance was very positive for the 1946–88 period fueling the advance; however, since 1988 the mass balance has been slightly negative, which should in the future slow the advance of this mighty glacier.\n\nLong-term mass balance records from Lemon Creek Glacier in Alaska show slightly declining mass balance with time. The mean annual balance for this glacier was − each year during the period of 1957 to 1976. Mean annual balance has been increasingly negatively averaging − per year from 1990 to 2005. Repeat glacier altimetry, or altitude measuring, for 67 Alaska glaciers find rates of thinning have increased by more than a factor of two when comparing the periods from 1950 to 1995 ( per year) and 1995 to 2001 ( per year). This is a systemic trend with loss in mass equating to loss in thickness, which leads to increasing retreat—the glaciers are not only retreating, but they are also becoming much thinner. In Denali National Park, all glaciers monitored are retreating, with an average retreat of per year. The terminus of the Toklat Glacier has been retreating per year and the Muldrow Glacier has thinned since 1979. Well documented in Alaska are surging glaciers that have been known to rapidly advance, even as much as per day. Variegated, Black Rapids, Muldrow, Susitna and Yanert are examples of surging glaciers in Alaska that have made rapid advances in the past. These glaciers are all retreating overall, punctuated by short periods of advance.\n\nA large region of population surrounding the central and southern Andes of Argentina and Chile reside in arid areas that are dependent on water supplies from melting glaciers. The water from the glaciers also supplies rivers that have in some cases been dammed for hydroelectric power. Some researchers believe that by 2030, many of the large ice caps on the highest Andes will be gone if current climate trends continue. In Patagonia on the southern tip of the continent, the large ice caps have retreated a since the early 1990s and since the late 19th century. It has also been observed that Patagonian glaciers are receding at a faster rate than in any other world region. The Northern Patagonian Ice Field lost of glacier area during the years between 1945 and 1975, and from 1975 to 1996, which indicates that the rate of retreat is increasing. This represents a loss of 8% of the ice field, with all glaciers experiencing significant retreat. The Southern Patagonian Ice Field has exhibited a general trend of retreat on 42 glaciers, while four glaciers were in equilibrium and two advanced during the years between 1944 and 1986. The largest retreat was on O'Higgins Glacier, which during the period 1896–1995 retreated . The Perito Moreno Glacier is long and is a major outflow glacier of the Patagonian ice sheet, as well as the most visited glacier in Patagonia. Perito Moreno Glacier is in equilibrium, but has undergone frequent oscillations in the period 1947–96, with a net gain of . This glacier has advanced since 1947, and has been essentially stable since 1992. Perito Moreno Glacier is one of three glaciers in Patagonia known to have advanced, compared to several hundred others in retreat. The two major glaciers of the Southern Patagonia Icefield to the north of Moreno, Upsala and Viedma Glacier have retreated in 21 years and in 13 years respectively. In the Aconcagua River Basin, glacier retreat has resulted in a 20% loss in glacier area, declining from to . The Marinelli Glacier in Tierra del Fuego has been in retreat since at least 1960 through 2008.\n\nIn New Zealand, mountain glaciers have been in general retreat since 1890, with an acceleration since 1920. Most have measurably thinned and reduced in size, and the snow accumulation zones have risen in elevation as the 20th century progressed. Between 1971–75 Ivory Glacier receded from the glacial terminus, and about 26% of its surface area was lost. Since 1980 numerous small glacial lakes formed behind the new terminal moraines of several of these glaciers. Glaciers such as Classen, Godley and Douglas now all have new glacial lakes below their terminal locations due to the glacial retreat over the past 20 years. Satellite imagery indicates that these lakes are continuing to expand. There has been significant and ongoing ice volume losses on the largest New Zealand glaciers, including the Tasman, Ivory, Classen, Mueller, Maud, Hooker, Grey, Godley, Ramsay, Murchison, Therma, Volta and Douglas Glaciers. The retreat of these glaciers has been marked by expanding proglacial lakes and terminus region thinning. The loss in Southern Alps total ice volume from 1976–2014 is 34 percent of the total.\n\nSeveral glaciers, notably the much-visited Fox and Franz Josef Glaciers on New Zealand's West Coast, have periodically advanced, especially during the 1990s, but the scale of these advances is small when compared to 20th-century retreat. Both are more than shorter than a century ago. These large, rapidly flowing glaciers situated on steep slopes have been very reactive to small mass-balance changes. A few years of conditions favorable to glacier advance, such as more westerly winds and a resulting increase in snowfall, are rapidly echoed in a corresponding advance, followed by equally rapid retreat when those favorable conditions end. The glaciers that have been advancing in a few locations in New Zealand have been doing so due to transient local weather conditions, which have brought more precipitation and cloudier, cooler summers since 2002.\n\nTropical glaciers are located between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, in the region that lies 23° 26′ 22″ north or south of the equator. Strictly, a tropical glacier is located within the astronomical tropics; the area where the annual temperature variation is less than the daily variation, and is within the oscillation area of the Intertropical Convergence Zone.\n\nTropical glaciers are the most uncommon of all glaciers for a variety of reasons. Firstly, the regions are the warmest part of the planet. Secondly, the seasonal change is minimal with temperatures warm year round, resulting in a lack of a colder winter season in which snow and ice can accumulate. Thirdly, few taller mountains exist in these regions upon which enough cold air exists for the establishment of glaciers. Overall, tropical glaciers are smaller than those found elsewhere and are the most likely glaciers to show rapid response to changing climate patterns. A small temperature increase of only a few degrees can have almost immediate and adverse effect on tropical glaciers.\n\nNear the Equator, ice is still found in East Africa, the Andes of South America and New Guinea. The retreat of equatorial glaciers has been documented via maps and photographs covering the period from the late 1800s to nearly the present. 99.64% of tropical glaciers are in Andean mountains of South America, 0.25% on the African glaciers of Rwenzori, Mount Kenya and Kilimanjaro, and 0.11% in the Irian Jaya region in New Guinea.\n\nAlmost all Africa is in tropical and subtropical climate zones. Its glaciers are found only in two isolated ranges and the Ruwenzori Range. Kilimanjaro, at , is the highest peak on the continent. Since 1912 the glacier cover on the summit of Kilimanjaro has apparently retreated 75%, and the volume of glacial ice is now 80% less than it was a century ago due to both retreat and thinning. In the 14-year period from 1984 to 1998, one section of the glacier atop the mountain receded . A 2002 study determined that if current conditions continue, the glaciers atop Kilimanjaro will disappear sometime between 2015 and 2020. A March 2005 report indicated that there is almost no remaining glacial ice on the mountain, and it is the first time in 11,000 years that barren ground has been exposed on portions of the summit. Researchers reported Kilimanjaro's glacier retreat was due to a combination of increased sublimation and decreased snow fall.\n\nThe Furtwängler Glacier is located near the summit of Kilimanjaro. Between 1976 and 2000, the area of Furtwängler Glacier was cut almost in half, from to . During fieldwork conducted early in 2006, scientists discovered a large hole near the center of the glacier. This hole, extending through the remaining thickness of the glacier to the underlying rock, was expected to grow and split the glacier in two by 2007.\n\nTo the north of Kilimanjaro lies Mount Kenya, which at is the second tallest mountain on the continent. Mount Kenya has a number of small glaciers that have lost at least 45% of their mass since the middle of the 20th century. According to research compiled by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), there were eighteen glaciers atop Mount Kenya in 1900, and by 1986 only eleven remained. The total area covered by glaciers was in 1900, however by the year 2000 only about 25%, or remained. To the west of Mounts Kilimanjaro and Kenya, the Ruwenzori Range rises to . Photographic evidence indicates a marked reduction in glacially covered areas over the past century. In the 35-year period between 1955 and 1990, glaciers on the Rwenzori Mountains receded about 40%. It is expected that due to their proximity to the heavy moisture of the Congo region, the glaciers in the Ruwenzori Range may recede at a slower rate than those on Kilimanjaro or in Kenya.\n\nA study by glaciologists of two small glaciers in South America reveals another retreat. More than 80% of all glacial ice in the northern Andes is concentrated on the highest peaks in small plains of approximately in size. A 1992 to 1998 observation of the Chacaltaya Glacier in Bolivia and Antizana Glacier in Ecuador indicate that between and of ice was lost per year on each glacier. Figures for Chacaltaya show a loss of 67% of its volume and 40% of its thickness over the same period. Chacaltaya Glacier has lost 90% of its mass since 1940 and was expected to disappear altogether sometime between 2010 and 2015. Antizana is also reported to have lost 40% of its surface area between 1979 and 2007. Research also indicates that since the mid-1980s, the rate of retreat for both of these glaciers has been increasing. In Colombia, the glaciers atop Nevado del Ruiz have lost more than half their area in the last 40 years. Further south in Peru, the Andes are at a higher altitude overall, and there are approximately 722 glaciers covering an area of .\n\nResearch in the region has been less extensive but indicates an overall recline of 7% between 1977 and 1983. The Quelccaya Ice Cap is the second largest tropical icecap in the world after the Coropuna ice cap, and all of the outlet glaciers from the icecap are retreating. In the case of Qori Kalis Glacier, which is one of Quelccayas' outlet glaciers, the rate of retreat had reached per year during the three-year period of 1995 to 1998. The melting ice has formed a large lake at the front of the glacier since 1983, and bare ground has been exposed for the first time in thousands of years.\n\nJan Carstensz's 1623 report of glaciers covering the equatorial mountains of New Guinea was originally met with ridicule, but in the early 20th century at least five subranges of the Maoke Mountains (meaning \"Snowy Mountains\") were indeed still found to be covered with large ice caps. Due to the location of the island within the tropical zone, there is little to no seasonal variation in temperature. The tropical location has a predictably steady level of rain and snowfall, as well as cloud cover year round, and there has been no noticeable change in the amount of moisture which has fallen during the 20th century.\n\nIn 1913, high Prins Hendrik peaks (now Puncak Yamin) was named and reported to have \"eternal\" snow, but this observation was never repeated. The ice cap of Wilhelmina Peaks, which reached below in 1909, vanished between 1939 and 1963. The Mandala / Juliana ice cap disappeared in the 1990s. and the Idenburg glacier on Ngga Pilimsit dried up in 2003. This leaves only the remnants of the once continuous icecap on New Guinea's highest mountain, Mount Carstensz with the high Puncak Jaya summit, which is estimated to have had an area of in 1850.\n\nFor this mountain there is photographic evidence of massive glacial retreat since the region was first extensively explored by airplane in 1936 in preparation for the peak's first ascent. Between then and 2010, the mountain lost 80 percent of its ice — two-thirds of which since another scientific expedition in the 1970s. That research between 1973 and 1976 showed glacier retreat for the Meren Glacier of while the Carstensz Glacier lost . The Northwall Firn, the largest remnant of the icecap that once was atop Puncak Jaya, has itself split into two separate glaciers after 1942. IKONOS satellite imagery of the New Guinean glaciers indicated that by 2002 only glacial area remained, that in the two years from 2000 to 2002, the East Northwall Firn had lost 4.5%, the West Northwall Firn 19.4% and the Carstensz 6.8% of their glacial mass, and that sometime between 1994 and 2000, the Meren Glacier had disappeared altogether. An expedition to the remaining glaciers on Puncak Jaya in 2010 discovered that the ice on the glaciers there is about thick and thinning at a rate of annually. At that rate, the remaining glaciers were expected to last only to the year 2015.\n\nDespite their proximity and importance to human populations, the mountain and valley glaciers of tropical and mid-latitude glaciers amount to only a small fraction of glacial ice on the Earth. About 99 percent of all freshwater ice is in the great ice sheets of polar and subpolar Antarctica and Greenland. These continuous continental-scale ice sheets, or more in thickness, cap much of the polar and subpolar land masses. Like rivers flowing from an enormous lake, numerous outlet glaciers transport ice from the margins of the ice sheet to the ocean.\n\nThe northern Atlantic island nation of Iceland is home to Vatnajökull, which is the largest ice cap in Europe. The Breiðamerkurjökull glacier is one of Vatnajökull's outlet glaciers, and receded by as much as between 1973 and 2004. In the early 20th century, Breiðamerkurjökull extended to within of the ocean, but by 2004 its terminus had retreated further inland. This glacier retreat exposed a rapidly expanding lagoon, Jökulsárlón, which is filled with icebergs calved from its front. Jökulsárlón is deep and nearly doubled its size between 1994 and 2004. Mass-balance measurements of Iceland's glaciers show alternating positive and negative mass balance of glaciers during the period 1987–95, but the mass balance has been predominantly negative since. On Hofsjökull ice cap, mass balance has been negative each year from 1995–2005.\n\nMost of the Icelandic glaciers retreated rapidly during the warm decades from 1930 to 1960, slowing down as the climate cooled during the following decade, and started to advance after 1970. The rate of advance peaked in the 1980s, after which it slowed down until about 1990. As a consequence of rapid warming of the climate that has taken place since the mid-1980s, most glaciers in Iceland began to retreat after 1990, and by 2000 all monitored non-surge type glaciers in Iceland were retreating. An average of 45 non-surging termini were monitored each year by the Icelandic Glaciological Society from 2000–2005.\n\nThe Canadian Arctic islands contain the largest area and volume of land ice on Earth outside of the Greenland and Antarctic Ice Sheets and is home to a number of substantial ice caps, including Penny and Barnes ice caps on Baffin Island, Bylot Ice Cap on Bylot Island, and Devon Ice Cap on Devon Island. Glaciers in the Canadian Arctic were near equilibrium between 1960 and 2000, losing 23 Gt of ice per year between 1995 and 2000. Since this time, Canadian Arctic glaciers have experienced a sharp increase in mass loss in response to warmer summer temperature, losing 92 Gt per year between 2007 and 2009 .\n\nOther studies show that between 1960 and 1999, the Devon Ice Cap lost of ice, mainly through thinning. All major outlet glaciers along the eastern Devon Ice Cap margin have retreated from to since 1960. On the Hazen Plateau of Ellesmere Island, the Simmon Ice Cap has lost 47% of its area since 1959. If the current climatic conditions continue, the remaining glacial ice on the Hazen Plateau will be gone around 2050. On August 13, 2005, the Ayles Ice Shelf broke free from the north coast of Ellesmere Island. The ice shelf drifted into the Arctic Ocean. This followed the splitting of the Ward Hunt Ice Shelf in 2002. The Ward Hunt has lost 90% of its area in the last century.\n\nArctic islands north of Norway, Finland and Russia have all shown evidence of glacier retreat. In the Svalbard archipelago, the island of Spitsbergen has numerous glaciers. Research indicates that Hansbreen (Hans Glacier) on Spitsbergen retreated from 1936 to 1982 and another during the 16-year period from 1982 to 1998. Blomstrandbreen, a glacier in the King's Bay area of Spitsbergen, has retreated approximately in the past 80 years. Since 1960 the average retreat of Blomstrandbreen has been about a year, and this average was enhanced due to an accelerated rate of retreat since 1995. Similarly, Midre Lovenbreen retreated between 1977 and 1995. In the Novaya Zemlya archipelago north of Russia, research indicates that in 1952 there was of glacier ice along the coast. By 1993 this had been reduced by 8% to of glacier coastline.\n\nIn Greenland, glacier retreat has been observed in outlet glaciers, resulting in an increase of the ice flow rate and destabilization of the mass balance of the ice sheet that is their source. The net loss in volume and hence sea level contribution of the Greenland Ice Sheet (GIS) has doubled in recent years from per year in 1996 to per year in 2005. Researchers also noted that the acceleration was widespread affecting almost all glaciers south of 70 N by 2005. The period since 2000 has brought retreat to several very large glaciers that had long been stable. Three glaciers that have been researched—Helheim Glacier, Kangerdlugssuaq Glacier, and Jakobshavn Isbræ—jointly drain more than 16% of the Greenland Ice Sheet. In the case of Helheim Glacier, researchers used satellite images to determine the movement and retreat of the glacier. Satellite images and aerial photographs from the 1950s and 1970s show that the front of the glacier had remained in the same place for decades. In 2001 the glacier began retreating rapidly, and by 2005 the glacier had retreated a total of , accelerating from per day to per day during that period.\n\nJakobshavn Isbræ in west Greenland, a major outlet glacier of the Greenland Ice Sheet, has been the fastest moving glacier in the world over the past half century. It had been moving continuously at speeds of over per day with a stable terminus since at least 1950. In 2002 the long floating terminus of the glacier entered a phase of rapid retreat, with the ice front breaking up and the floating terminus disintegrating and accelerating to a retreat rate of over per day. On a shorter timescale, portions of the main trunk of Kangerdlugssuaq Glacier that were flowing at per day from 1988 to 2001 were measured to be flowing at per day in the summer of 2005. Not only has Kangerdlugssuaq retreated, it has also thinned by more than .\n\nThe rapid thinning, acceleration and retreat of Helheim, Jakobshavns and Kangerdlugssuaq glaciers in Greenland, all in close association with one another, suggests a common triggering mechanism, such as enhanced surface melting due to regional climate warming or a change in forces at the glacier front. The enhanced melting leading to lubrication of the glacier base has been observed to cause a small seasonal velocity increase and the release of meltwater lakes has also led to only small short term accelerations. The significant accelerations noted on the three largest glaciers began at the calving front and propagated inland and are not seasonal in nature. Thus, the primary source of outlet glacier acceleration widely observed on small and large calving glaciers in Greenland is driven by changes in dynamic forces at the glacier front, not enhanced meltwater lubrication. This was termed the \"Jakobshavns Effect\" by Terence Hughes at the University of Maine in 1986. Indeed, a study published in 2015 on glacial underwater topography at 3 sites found cavities, due to warm subglacial water intrusion, which has been identified as a possible dominant force for ablation (surface erosion). Thus, suggests ocean temperature controls ice sheet surface runoff at specific sites. These findings also show that models underestimate the sensitivity of Greenland glaciers to ocean warming and resulting ice sheet runoff. Hence, without better modelling, new observations suggest that past projections of sea level rise attribution from the Greenland Ice Sheet require upward revision.\n\nAntarctica is intensely cold and arid. Most of the world's freshwater ice is contained within its sheets. Its most dramatic example of glacier retreat is the loss of large sections of the Larsen Ice Shelf on the Antarctic Peninsula. The recent collapse of Wordie Ice Shelf, Prince Gustav Ice Shelf, Mueller Ice Shelf, Jones Ice Shelf, Larsen-A and Larsen-B Ice Shelf on the Antarctic Peninsula has raised awareness of how dynamic ice shelf systems are.\n\nThe Antarctic sheet is the largest known single mass of ice. It covers almost 14 million km and some 30 million km of ice. Around 90% of the fresh water on the planet's surface is held in this area and if melted would raise sea levels by 58 metres. The continent-wide average surface temperature trend of Antarctica is positive and significant at >0.05 °C/decade since 1957.\n\nThe Antarctic sheet is divided by the Transantarctic Mountains into two unequal sections known as the East Antarctic ice sheet (EAIS) and the smaller West Antarctic Ice Sheet (WAIS). The EAIS rests on a major land mass but the bed of the WAIS is, in places, more than 2,500 metres below sea level. It would be seabed if the ice sheet were not there. The WAIS is classified as a marine-based ice sheet, meaning that its bed lies below sea level and its edges flow into floating ice shelves. The WAIS is bounded by the Ross Ice Shelf, the Ronne Ice Shelf, and outlet glaciers that drain into the Amundsen Sea.\n\nIce shelves are not stable when surface melting occurs, and the collapse of Larsen Ice Shelf has been caused by warmer melt season temperatures that have led to surface melting and the formation of shallow ponds of water on the ice shelf. The Larsen Ice Shelf lost of its area from 1995 to 2001. In a 35-day period beginning on January 31, 2002, about of shelf area disintegrated. The ice shelf is now 40% the size of its previous minimum stable extent. In 2015 a study concluded that the remaining \"Larsen B\" ice-shelf will disintegrate by the end of the decade, based on observations of faster flow and rapid thinning of glaciers in the area. Jones Ice Shelf had an area of in the 1970s but by 2008 it had disappeared. Wordie Ice Shelf has gone from an area of in 1950 to in 2000. Prince Gustav Ice Shelf has gone from an area of to in 2008. After their loss the reduced buttressing of feeder glaciers has allowed the expected speed-up of inland ice masses after shelf ice break-up. The Ross Ice Shelf is the largest ice shelf of Antarctica (an area of roughly and about across: about the size of France). Wilkins Ice Shelf is another ice shelf that has suffered substantial retreat. The ice shelf had an area of in 1998 when was lost that year. In 2007 and 2008 significant rifting developed and led to the loss of another of area and some of the calving occurred in the Austral winter. The calving seemed to have resulted from preconditioning such as thinning, possibly due to basal melt, as surface melt was not as evident, leading to a reduction in the strength of the pinning point connections. The thinner ice then experienced spreading rifts and breakup. This period culminated in the collapse of an ice bridge connecting the main ice shelf to Charcot Island leading to the loss of an additional between February and June 2009.\n\nDakshin Gangotri Glacier, a small outlet glacier of the Antarctic ice sheet, receded at an average rate of per year from 1983 to 2002. On the Antarctic Peninsula, which is the only section of Antarctica that extends well north of the Antarctic Circle, there are hundreds of retreating glaciers. In one study of 244 glaciers on the peninsula, 212 have retreated an average of from where they were when first measured in 1953. Pine Island Glacier, an Antarctic outflow glacier that flows into the Amundsen Sea. A study from 1998 concluded that the glacier thinned ±  per year and retreated a total of in 3.8 years. The terminus of the Pine Island Glacier is a floating ice shelf, and the point at which it starts to float retreated per year from 1992 to 1996. This glacier drains a substantial portion of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet.\n\nA study published in 2014 found, rapid grounding line retreat in the years 1992-2011. Based on a study from 2005, the greatest retreat was seen in Sjogren Glacier, which is now further inland than where it was in 1953. There are 32 glaciers that were measured to have advanced; however, these glaciers showed only a modest advance averaging per glacier, which is significantly smaller than the massive retreat observed. Thwaites Glacier, which has also shown evidence of thinning, has been referred to as the weak underbelly of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. A study published in 2014 found rapid grounding line retreat in the years 1992–2011. Totten Glacier, is a large glacier draining a major portion of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet. A study in 2008 concluded that Totten Glacier is currently losing mass. A study published in 2015 concluded that Totten Glacier, has the largest contribution of ice thinning rate on the East Antarctic continent, and that the thinning is driven by enhanced basal melting, because of ocean processes, and affected by polynya activity. Additionally, warm Circumpolar Deep Water, has been observed during summer and winter months at the nearby continental shelf below 400 to 500 meters of cool Antarctic Surface Water.\n\nThe continued retreat of glaciers will have a number of different quantitative effects. In areas that are heavily dependent on water runoff from glaciers that melt during the warmer summer months, a continuation of the current retreat will eventually deplete the glacial ice and substantially reduce or eliminate runoff. A reduction in runoff will affect the ability to irrigate crops and will reduce summer stream flows necessary to keep dams and reservoirs replenished. This situation is particularly acute for irrigation in South America, where numerous artificial lakes are filled almost exclusively by glacial melt. Central Asian countries have also been historically dependent on the seasonal glacier melt water for irrigation and drinking supplies. In Norway, the Alps, and the Pacific Northwest of North America, glacier runoff is important for hydropower.\n\nSome of this retreat has resulted in efforts to slow down the loss of glaciers in the Alps. To retard melting of the glaciers used by certain Austrian ski resorts, portions of the Stubai and Pitztal Glaciers were partially covered with plastic. In Switzerland plastic sheeting is also used to reduce the melt of glacial ice used as ski slopes. While covering glaciers with plastic sheeting may prove advantageous to ski resorts on a small scale, this practice is not expected to be economically practical on a much larger scale.\n\nMany species of freshwater and saltwater plants and animals are dependent on glacier-fed waters to ensure the cold water habitat to which they have adapted. Some species of freshwater fish need cold water to survive and to reproduce, and this is especially true with salmon and cutthroat trout. Reduced glacial runoff can lead to insufficient stream flow to allow these species to thrive. Alterations to the ocean currents, due to increased freshwater inputs from glacier melt, and the potential alterations to thermohaline circulation of the World Ocean, may affect existing fisheries upon which humans depend as well.\n\nOne major concern is the increased risk of Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOF), which have in the past had great effect on lives and property. Glacier meltwater left behind by the retreating glacier is often held back by moraines that can be unstable and have been known to collapse if breached or displaced by earthquakes, landslides or avalanches. If the terminal moraine is not strong enough to hold the rising water behind it, it can burst, leading to a massive localized flood. The likelihood of such events is rising due to the creation and expansion of glacial lakes resulting from glacier retreat. Past floods have been deadly and have resulted in enormous property damage. Towns and villages in steep, narrow valleys that are downstream from glacial lakes are at the greatest risk. In 1892 a GLOF released some of water from the lake of the Glacier de Tête Rousse, resulting in the deaths of 200 people in the French town of Saint-Gervais-les-Bains. GLOFs have been known to occur in every region of the world where glaciers are located. Continued glacier retreat is expected to create and expand glacial lakes, increasing the danger of future GLOFs.\n\nThe potential for major sea level rise depends mostly on a significant melting of the polar ice caps of Greenland and Antarctica, as this is where the vast majority of glacial ice is located. If all the ice on the polar ice caps were to melt away, the oceans of the world would rise an estimated . Although previously it was thought that the polar ice caps were not contributing heavily to sea level rise (IPCC 2007), recent studies have confirmed that both Antarctica and Greenland are contributing a year each to global sea level rise. The fact that the IPCC estimates did not include rapid ice sheet decay into their sea level predictions makes it difficult to ascertain a plausible estimate for sea level rise but recent studies find that the minimum sea level rise will be around by 2100.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49520686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49520686", "title": "Serpong–Balaraja Toll Road", "text": "Serpong–Balaraja Toll Road\n\nThe Serpong-Balaraja is a toll road extended from the Jakarta–Serpong Toll Road. It crosses one city and a regency. The project costs RP 3.7 billion and its expected completion is 2018. This will provide access from Serpong to Merak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54893561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54893561", "title": "Sugar Loaf (Freetown)", "text": "Sugar Loaf (Freetown)\n\nSugar Loaf is a forested mountain in the Western Area of Sierra Leone in west Africa. The capital city of Freetown is built around its lower slopes. Parts of the mountain are protected as the Western Area Forest Reserve.\n\nThe 19th-century British missionary George Thompson documented his ascent of Sugar Loaf in his 1859 book \"The Palm Land; Or, West Africa, Illustrated\".\n\nOn Monday 14 August, 2017 in the 2017 Sierra Leone mudslides a landslide triggered by heavy rains swept down one of its flanks and inundated a part of the urban area of Regent with mud with many deaths reported.\n"}
{"id": "919779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919779", "title": "Three Sisters (Australia)", "text": "Three Sisters (Australia)\n\nThe Three Sisters are an unusual rock formation in the Blue Mountains of New South Wales, Australia, on the north escarpment of the Jamison Valley. They are close to the town of Katoomba and are one of the Blue Mountains' best known sites, towering above the Jamison Valley. Their names are Meehni (922 m), Wimlah (918 m), and Gunnedoo (906 m).\n\nThe Sisters were formed by land erosion. The sandstone of the Blue Mountains was eroded over time by wind, rain and rivers, causing the cliffs surrounding the Jamison Valley to be slowly broken up.\n\nThe commonly told legend of the Three Sisters is that three sisters, Meehni, Wimlah and Gunnedoo, lived in the Jamison Valley as members of the Katoomba tribe. They fell in love with three men from the neighbouring Nepean tribe, but marriage was forbidden by tribal law. The brothers were not happy to accept this law and so decided to use force to capture the three sisters. A major tribal battle ensued, and the sisters were turned to stone by an elder to protect them, but he was killed in the fighting and no one else could turn them back. This legend is claimed to be an Indigenous Australian Dreamtime legend.\n\nThe Aboriginal traditional owners, the Gundungurra, have a legend that includes the Sisters rock formation.\n\nFrom nearby Echo Point, a bushwalking trail leads to the Three Sisters and down to the valley floor via more than 800 well-maintained steel and stone steps called \"the Giant Stairway\". Then a 1.5-hour walk on The Federal Pass trail leads to the base of Katoomba Falls and the Katoomba Scenic Railway. Walkers who don't wish to climb back to the top can take the Scenic Railway back to the plateau for a fee.\n\n"}
{"id": "13064314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13064314", "title": "Timeline of Colombian history", "text": "Timeline of Colombian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Colombian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Colombia and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Colombia. See also the list of Presidents of Colombia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3213456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3213456", "title": "Trešnjevka – jug", "text": "Trešnjevka – jug\n\nTrešnjevka – jug (, \"Trešnjevka – south\") is one of the districts of Zagreb, Croatia. It is located in the western part of the city and has 66,674 inhabitants (2011 census).\n\nThe district encompasses the southern () part of the traditional Trešnjevka neighbourhood, separated from the northern part () by the Zagrebačka Avenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5126582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5126582", "title": "Wiktor Ormicki", "text": "Wiktor Ormicki\n\nWiktor Ormicki (born \"Wiktor Rudolf Nusbaum\", 1898–1941) was a Polish geographer and cartographer, a university professor of Jewish descent. A specialist in economical geography and demography, he served at various posts in the Jagiellonian University, Wolna Wszechnica, Higher Trade School of Kraków and Lwów University. Arrested by the Germans during World War II, he was murdered in the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp.\n"}
{"id": "15462443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15462443", "title": "William Libbey", "text": "William Libbey\n\nWilliam A. Libbey III (March 27, 1855 – September 6, 1927) was an American professor of physical geography at Princeton University. He was twice a member of the U.S. Olympic Rifle Team, and rose to the rank of colonel in the New Jersey National Guard. He is also known for his first ascent of Mount Princeton in 1877.\n\nHe was born in Jersey City, New Jersey to William Libbey, Jr., a wealthy New York City merchant, and Elizabeth Marsh (Libbey). As an undergraduate at Princeton Libbey was responsible for the adoption of orange and black as the school colors. During his freshman year he wore a tie, on a dare from classmate Melanchthon Jacobus, with the colors of William III of England, Prince of Orange-Nassau, after whom Nassau Street had been named in 1724, and later Nassau Hall in 1756. The next year he arranged for the manufacture of 1,000 yards of orange and black ribbon and proceeded to sell it, from the Grand Union Hotel, at an intercollegiate regatta in Saratoga, New York as \"Princeton's colors.\" After the Princeton crew team won, he sold out and orange and black have been Princeton's definitive colors ever since.\n\nLibbey graduated from Princeton in 1877 and that summer went on the Princeton scientific expedition to the West. It was there that on the afternoon of July 17, 1877, at 12:30 pm he reached the summit of Mount Princeton. Following his summer in the West, Libbey studied in Berlin and Paris.\n\nLibbey returned and received his doctorate in geology in 1879, the first awarded by Princeton. In 1880 he was appointed as director of the Elizabeth Marsh Museum of Geology and Archaeology as well as an associate professor to teach physical geography. In 1883 he was appointed as a full professor and continued to teach the physical geography classes.\n\nIn 1897 Libbey was involved with the controversy concerning whether the Acoma people had once lived on Enchanted Mesa. After great exertion, he spent a couple of hours on the mesa top and concluded that nothing was there and that it had never been occupied. Subsequent work by archaeologists have shown that Libbey's conclusion was hasty.\n\nAt the 1912 Summer Olympics he won the silver medal as a member of the American team in the team running deer, single shots competition.\n\nLibbey died in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "54977793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54977793", "title": "Yandex Maps", "text": "Yandex Maps\n\nYandex Maps is a Russian web mapping service developed by Yandex. The service provides detailed maps of the whole world. It includes a search, information about traffic jams, routing and street panoramas. The service was launched in 2004.\n\nYandex Maps is the most popular cartographic service in Russia. It has about 11.5 million users in Russia per month, and over 20 million worldwide.\n\nThe service initially had maps only of Russia and Ukraine, but now includes world maps.\n\nMaps are available in four versions: maps, satellite images, satellite images with captions, and legend (hybrid).\n\nUsers can measure distance and get directions by dragging between spots on a map. The search is available by both geographical objects (addresses, streets, cities, regions and countries) and by organizations. The illumination of the district, city or region is available after searching the organization on the site.\n\nYandex Maps has a mobile application for iOS, Android and Windows phones.\n\nOn Yandex Maps it is possible to view street panoramas. There are street view even of Pripyat and Chernobyl. In 2016 a \"street view\" of Everest was photographed.\n\nUsers can make new data on the map with the help of the Yandex.Map editor.\n\nYandex Traffic is a feature on Yandex Maps that displays traffic conditions in real time on major roads and highways. It can be viewed at the Yandex Maps website, or via the app.\n\nYandex Traffic works by analyzing the GPS-determined locations transmitted to Yandex by a large number of mobile phone users. By calculating the speed of users along a length of road, Yandex is able to generate a live traffic map. It processes the incoming raw data about mobile phone device locations, and then excludes anomalies such as a postal vehicle that makes frequent stops. When a threshold of users in a particular area is noted, the overlay along roads and highways on the map changes color.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47914", "title": "Zealand", "text": "Zealand\n\nZealand (, ), at 7,031 km, is the largest and most populous island in Denmark proper (thus excluding Greenland and Disko Island, which are larger). Zealand has a population of 2,302,074 (as of 1 January 2018).\n\nIt is the 13th-largest island in Europe by area and the 4th most populous. It is connected to Funen by the Great Belt Fixed Link, to Lolland, Falster (and Germany from 2028) by the Storstrøm Bridge and the Farø Bridges. Zealand is also linked to Amager by several bridges. Zealand is linked indirectly, through intervening islands by a series of bridges and tunnels, to southern Sweden.\n\nCopenhagen, the capital of Denmark, is located partly on the eastern shore of Zealand and partly on the island of Amager. Other cities on Zealand include Roskilde, Hillerød, Næstved and Helsingør. \n\nDespite their identical names, the island is not connected historically to the Pacific nation of New Zealand, which is named after the Dutch province of Zeeland.\n\nThe exact origin of the Danish name \"Sjælland\" is controversial. \"Sjæl\" in Danish today means \"soul\", but based on older records one can exclude this interpretation. Even a derivation derived from \"siô / sæ\" (meaning \"sea\") corresponding closely to the English name is today largely rejected. The prevailing view today is: The Old Danish form \"Siâland\" comes from a composition of the word *\"selha-\" with the ending *\"wundia-\". The latter means \"indicates, resembles\". The word *\"selha-\" can have two different meanings: it can mean on the one hand \"seal\" (in modern Danish \"sæl\") and on the other hand mean \"deep bay, fjord\". Since the main settlement on Zealand was previously Roskilde, which is only accessible by sea through the narrow Roskilde Fjord (branched from the Ise Fjord), it is usually assumed that the sailors named the island after this.\n\nIn Norse mythology as told in the \"Gylfaginning\", the island was created by the goddess Gefjun after she tricked Gylfi, the king of Sweden. She removed a piece of land and transported it to Denmark, which became Zealand. The vacant area was filled with water and became Mälaren. However, since modern maps show a similarity between Zealand and the Swedish lake Vänern, it is sometimes identified as the hole left by Gefjun.\n\nZealand is the most populous Danish island. It is irregularly shaped, and is north of the islands of Lolland, Falster, and Møn. The small island of Amager lies immediately east.\n\nCopenhagen is mostly on Zealand but extends across northern Amager. A number of bridges and the Copenhagen Metro connect Zealand to Amager, which is connected to Scania in Sweden by the Øresund Bridge via the artificial island of Peberholm. Zealand is joined in the west to Funen, by the Great Belt Fixed Link, and Funen is connected by bridges to the country's mainland, Jutland.\n\nOn June 5, 2007, the regional subsidiary of national broadcaster DR reported that Kobanke in the southeast near the town Rønnede in Faxe Municipality, with a height of , was the highest natural point on Zealand. Gyldenløveshøj, south of the city Roskilde, has a height of , but that is due to a man-made hill from the 17th century and its highest natural point is only .\n\nZealand gives its name to the Selandian era of the Paleocene.\n\nUrban areas with 10,000+ inhabitants:\n\n"}
