{"id": "5276530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5276530", "title": "After the Hole", "text": "After the Hole\n\nAfter the Hole (1993) is a psychological horror novel by Guy Burt. It won a Betty Trask Award in 1994. The 2001 film \"The Hole\" was based on this book.\n\nAt an English public school, five students – Liz (the narrator of many flash backs), Mike (the protagonist of most of the student's time in the titular \"hole\"), Alex, Frankie and Geoff – are lured into an abandoned cellar by a malevolent prankster named Martyn. All is well for the three days, in which they socialise and get to know each other better; but when three days pass and Martyn is nowhere to be seen, the group must face the possibility that they are trapped indefinitely.\n\nFlash forwards of a \"dream summer\" section punctuate the story, narrated by Liz, reveal that most of them got out of the hole (Liz interacts awkwardly with Alex at one point) and Mike and Liz are now living together while Liz writes a book based on everything that happened within the Hole. Liz also keeps tapes of interviews with a girl named \"Lisa\" who talks of her romantic relationship with Martyn.\n\nIn the Hole, they become increasingly desperate for food, beginning to face up to the fact that Martyn's experiment was really to play God with all of them. Mike and Liz meet at night in the small bathroom section and talk a lot. At one point Mike believes he sees the keyhole of the trapdoor locking them in the Hole \"winking\" at him, but dismisses this on grounds that he is hallucinating, or so he thinks.\n\nThe water supplies go off. Mike tells Liz his experience with the \"winking\" keyhole and from this she decides that Martyn must have bugged the main room but not the bathroom area where Mike and Liz have been talking. Liz formulates a plan to test their theory, by saying how lucky they are to have light, and see if Martyn turns off the electricity. They then sleep together.\n\nLiz follows through with it, and everything goes to plan. The electricity goes off. Liz tells the others that a friend of hers knows about the prank and if she doesn't return he will come and rescue them. Everyone rejoices, but Mike is suspicious.\n\nLisa's story goes on in parallel to this, via the tapes Liz has made of \"interviews\" she had with Lisa. On the same day Liz plots this, Lisa goes over to Martyn's house and tries to break up with him. Martyn barely listens and, in anger, rapes Lisa. After this, he walks out and supposedly never returns. Lisa goes into his office, searching for him, and sees the tapes of The Hole. She realises everything that has gone on and goes to the Hole, rescuing everyone.\n\nAt this point, Liz's narrative ends and there is an extremely ambiguous epilogue written by Dr. Phillippa Horwood, who casts the whole of Liz's testimony in doubt by saying that Michael (\"Mike\") Rollins died on the sixteenth day in the Hole, that Liz was the \"sole survivor\" and that no records of the infamous Martyn exist, heavily implying that Liz created Martyn to place blame on someone other than herself. It is also heavily implied – but never actually decided – that Liz and Lisa are the same person.\n"}
{"id": "18505697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18505697", "title": "Alcoholism in family systems", "text": "Alcoholism in family systems\n\nAlcoholism in family systems refers to the conditions in families that enable alcoholism, and the effects of alcoholic behavior by one or more family members on the rest of the family. Mental health professionals are increasingly considering alcoholism and addiction as diseases that flourish in and are enabled by family systems. Family members react to the alcoholic with particular behavioral patterns. They may enable the addiction to continue by shielding the addict from the negative consequences of their actions. Such behaviors are referred to as codependence. In this way, the alcoholic is said to suffer from the disease of addiction, whereas the family members suffer from the disease of codependence. While it is recognized that addiction is a family disease, affecting the entire family system, \"the family is often ignored and neglected in the treatment of addictive disease.\" Each individual member is affected and should receive treatment for their own benefit and healing, but in addition to benefitting the individuals themselves, this also helps to better support the addict/alcoholic in his/her recovery process. \"The chances of recovery are greatly reduced unless the co-dependents are willing to accept their role in the addictive process and submit to treatment themselves.\" \"Co-dependents are mutually dependent on the addict to fulfill some need of their own.\" For example, if the \"Chief Enabler\" (the main enabler in the family) will often turn a blind eye to the addict's drug/alcohol use as this allows for the enabler to continue to play the victim and/or martyr role, while allowing the addict to continue his/her own destructive behavior. Therefore, \"the behavior of each reinforces and maintains the other, while also raising the costs and emotional consequences for both.\" \n\nAlcoholism is one of the leading causes of a dysfunctional family. \"About one-fourth of the U.S. population is a member of family that is affected by an addictive disorder in a first-degree relative.\" As of 2001, there were an estimated 26.8 million children of alcoholics (COAs) in the United States, with as many as 11 million of them under the age of 18. Children of addicts have an increased suicide rate and on average have total health care costs 32 percent greater than children of nonalcoholic families.\n\nAccording to the American Psychiatric Association, physicians stated three criteria to diagnose this disease: (1) physiological problems, such as hand tremors and blackouts, (2) psychological problems, such as excessive desire to drink, and (3) behavioral problems that disrupt social interaction or work performance.\n\nAdults from alcoholic families experience higher levels of state and trait anxiety and lower levels of differentiation of self than adults raised in non-alcoholic families. Additionally, adult children of alcoholics have lower self-esteem, excessive feelings of responsibility, difficulties reaching out, higher incidence of depression, and increased likelihood of becoming alcoholics.\n\nParental alcoholism may affect the fetus even before a child is born. In pregnant women, alcohol is carried to all of the mother’s organs and tissues, including the placenta, where it easily crosses through the membrane separating the maternal and fetal blood systems. When a pregnant woman drinks an alcoholic beverage, the concentration of alcohol in her unborn baby’s bloodstream is the same level as her own. A pregnant woman who consumes alcohol during her pregnancy may give birth to a baby with Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS). FAS (fetal alcohol syndrome) is known to produce children with damage to the central nervous system, general growth and facial features. The prevalence of this class of disorder is thought to be between 2–5 per 1000.\n\nAlcoholism does not have uniform effects on all families. The levels of dysfunction and resiliency of the non-alcoholic adults are important factors in effects on children in the family. Children of untreated alcoholics score lower on measures of family cohesion, intellectual-cultural orientation, active-recreational orientation, and independence. They have higher levels of conflict within the family, and many experience other family members as distant and non-communicative. In families with untreated alcoholics, the cumulative effect of the family dysfunction may affect the children's ability to grow in developmentally healthy ways.\n\nThe role of the \"Chief Enabler\" is typically the spouse, significant other, parent, or eldest child of the alcoholic/addict. This person demonstrates \"a strong tendency to avoid any confrontation of the addictive behavior and a subconscious effort to actively perpetuate the addiction.\" The \"Chief Enabler\" also often doubles as the \"Responsible One,\" or \"Family Hero\" another role assumed by family members of the alcoholic/addict. Both the \"Chief Enabler\" and \"Responsible One\" (aka \"Model Child\") will take \"over [the alcoholic/addict's] roles and responsibilities.\" For example, a parent might pay for expenses and take over responsibilities (i.e. car payments, the raising of a grandchild, provide room and board, etc.), while a child may provide care for their siblings, become the \"peace keeper\" in the home, take on all the chores and cooking, etc. A spouse or significant other may overcompensate by providing all the care to the children, being the sole financial contributor to the household, covering up or hiding the addiction from others, etc. This role often receives the most praise from non-family members, causing the individual to struggle to see that it is an unhealthy role which contributes to the addict/alcoholic's disease as well as the family's disfunction.\n\nAnother role is that of the \"Problem Child\" or \"Scapegoat.\" This person \"may be the only [one] clearly seen as having a problem\" outside of the actual addict/alcoholic. These children (or adult children of the alcoholic(s)) \"gets blamed for everything; they have problems at school, exhibit negative behavior, and often develope drug or alcohol problems as a way to act out. Their behavior demands whatever attention is available from parents and siblings.\" This often \"takes the focus off the parental alcohol problem,\" and the child can be the \"scapegoat\" under the myth that his/her behavior fuels the parent's drinking/using. However, this child draws attention from outsiders which may contribute to the recognition of the family alcohol problem by outsiders.\n\nThe \"Lost Child\" role is identified in this system through children that are \"withdrawn, 'spaced-out,' and disconnected from the life and emotions around them.\" They often avoid \"any emotionally confronting issues, [and so are] unable to form close friendships or intimate bonds with others.\" \n\nOther children, \"trivialize things by minimizing all serious issues as an avoidance strategy [and] are well liked and easy to befriend but are usually superficial in all relationships, including those with their own family members.\" These children are known as the \"Mascot\" or \"Family Clown.\" \n\nBased on the number of children with parents meeting the DSM-V criteria for alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence, in 1996 there were an estimated 26.8 million children of alcoholics (COAs) in the United States of which 11 million were under the age of 18. As of 1988, it was estimated that 76 million Americans, about 43% of the U.S. adult population, have been exposed to alcoholism or problem drinking in the family, either having grown up with an alcoholic, having an alcoholic blood relative, or marrying an alcoholic. While growing up, nearly one in five adult Americans (18%) lived with an alcoholic. In 1992, it was estimated that one in eight adult American drinkers were alcoholics or experienced problems as consequences of their alcohol use.\n\nChildren of alcoholics (COAs) are more susceptible to alcoholism and other drug abuse than children of non-alcoholics. Children of alcoholics are four times more likely than non-COAs to develop alcoholism. Both genetic and environmental factors influence the development of alcoholism in COAs.\n\nCOAs perceptions of their parents drinking habits influence their own future drinking patterns and are developed at an early age. Alcohol related expectancies are correlated with parental alcoholism and alcohol abuse among their offspring. Problem solving discussions in families with an alcoholic parent contained more negative family interactions than in families with non-alcoholics parents. Several factors related to parental alcoholism influence COA substance abuse including stress, negative affect and decreased parental monitoring. Impaired parental monitoring and negative affect correlate with COAs associating with peers that support drug use.\n\nAfter drinking alcohol, sons of alcoholics experience more of the physiological changes associated with pleasurable effects compared with sons of non-alcoholics, although only immediately after drinking.\n\nCompared with non-alcoholic families, alcoholic families demonstrate poorer problem-solving abilities, both among the parents and within the family as a whole. These communication problems many contribute to the escalation of conflicts in alcoholic families. COAs are more likely than non-COAs to be aggressive, impulsive, and engage in disruptive and sensation seeking behaviors.\nAlcohol addiction is a complex disease that results from a variety of genetic, social, and environmental influences. Alcoholism affected approximately 4.65 percent of the U.S. population in 2001–2002, producing severe economic, social, and medical ramifications (Grant 2004). Researchers estimate that between 50 and 60 percent of alcoholism risk is determined by genetics (Goldman and Bergen 1998; McGue 1999).This strong genetic component has sparked numerous linkage and association studies investigating the roles of chromosomal regions and genetic variants in determining alcoholism susceptibility.\n\nAlcoholism usually has strong negative effects on marital relationships. Separated and divorced men and women were three times as likely as married men and women to say they had been married to an alcoholic or problem drinker. Almost two-thirds of separated and divorced women, and almost half of separated or divorced men under age 46 have been exposed to alcoholism in the family at some time.\n\nExposure was higher among women (46.2 percent) than among men (38.9 percent) and declined with age. Exposure to alcoholism in the family was strongly related to marital status, independent of age: 55.5 percent of separated or divorced adults had been exposed to alcoholism in some family member, compared with 43.5 percent of married, 38.5 percent of never married, and 35.5 percent of widowed persons. Nearly 38 percent of separated or divorced women had been married to an alcoholic, but only about 12 percent of currently married women were married to an alcoholic.\n\nOver one million children yearly are confirmed as victims of child abuse and neglect by state child protective service agencies. Substance abuse is one of the two largest problems affecting families in the United States, being a factor in nearly four-fifths of reported cases. Alcoholism is more prevalent among child abusing parents. Alcoholism is more strongly correlated to child abuse than depression and other disorders.\n\nAdoption plays only a slight role in alcoholism in the family. Studies were done comparing children who were born into a family with an alcoholic parent and raised by adoptive (non-alcoholic) parents as compared to children born to non-alcoholic parents and raised by adopted alcoholic parents. The results (in US and Scandinavian studies) were that those adopted children born of an alcoholic parent (and adopted by non-alcoholic parents ) developed alcoholism at higher rates as adults.\n\nChildren of alcoholics exhibit symptoms of depression and anxiety more than children of non-alcoholics. COAs have lower self-esteem than non-COAs from childhood through young adulthood. Children of alcoholics show more symptoms of anxiety, depression, and externalizing behavior disorders than non-COAs. Some of these symptoms include crying, lack of friends, fear of going to school, nightmares, perfectionism, hoarding, and excessive self-consciousness.\n\nMany children of alcoholics score lower on tests measuring cognitive and verbal skills than non-COAs. Lacking requisite skills to express themselves can impact academic performance, relationships, and job interviews. The lack of these skills do not, however, imply that COAs are intellectually impaired. COAs are also shown to have difficulty with abstraction and conceptual reasoning, both of which play an important role in problem-solving academically and otherwise.\n\nIn her book \"Adult Children of Alcoholics\", Janet G. Woititz describes numerous traits common among adults who had an alcoholic parent. Although not necessarily universal or comprehensive, these traits constitute an \"adult children of alcoholics syndrome\" (cf. the work of Wayne Kritsberg).\n\nSuggested practices to mitigate the impact of parental alcoholism on the development of their children include:\n\nProfessor and psychiatric Dieter J. Meyerhoff state that the negative effects of alcohol on the body and on health are undeniable, but we should not forget the most important unit in our society that this is affects the family and the children. The family is the main institution in which the child should feel safe and have moral values. If a good starting point is given, it is less likely that when a child becomes an adult, has a mental disorder or is addicted to drugs or alcohol. According to the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) children are in a unique position when their parents abuse alcohol. The behavior of a parent is the essence of the problem, because such children do not have and do not receive support from their own family. Seeing changes from happy to angry parents, the children begin to think that they are the reason for these changes. Self-accusation, guilt, frustration, anger arises because the child is trying to understand why this behavior is occurs. Dependence on alcohol has a huge harm in childhood and adolescent psychology in a family environment. Psychologists Michelle L. Kelley and Keith Klostermann describe the effects of parental alcoholism on children, and describe the development and behavior of these children. Alcoholic children often face problems such as behavioral disorders, oppression, crime and attention deficit disorder, and there is a higher risk of internal behavior, such as depression and anxiety. Therefore, they are drinking earlier, drinking alcohol more often and are less likely to grow from moderate to severe alcohol consumption. Young people with parental abuse and parental violence are likely to live in large crime areas, which may have a negative impact on the quality of schools and increase the impact of violence in the area. Paternity alcoholism and the general parental verbal and physical spirit of violence witnessed the fears of children and the internalization of symptoms, greater likelihood of child aggression and emotional misconduct.\nResearch on alcoholism within families has leaned towards exploring issues that are wrong in the community rather than potential strengths or positives. When researchers conduct research that helps communities, it can be easier for community members to identify with the positives and work towards a path of resilience. Flawed research design in adult children of alcoholics (ACOA) research showed ACOAs were psychologically damaged. Some flawed research designs include using ACOAs as part of the control group and comparing them to other ACOAs within the same study. This may have caused some limitations in the study that were not listed. When comparing ACOAs to other ACOAs, it is difficult to interpret accurate results that show certain behaviors in the group studied. Research that has been conducted more recently has used control groups with non-ACOAs to see whether the behaviors align with prior research. This research has shown that behaviors were similar between non-ACOAs and ACOAs. An 18-year-long study compared children of alcoholics (COA) to other COAs. In failing to use non-COAs as controls, we miss an opportunity to see if the negative aspects of a person are related to having an alcoholic parent, or are they just simply a fact of life. For example, in Werner’s study, he found that 30% of COAs were committing serious delinquencies. This data would have been more usable if they had viewed the percentage of those committing crimes when compared to non-ACOAs. In a study conducted in a midwestern university, researchers found that there was no significant difference between ACOA and non-ACOA students. One of the main differences was the student’s views on how they connect their past experiences with their current social-emotional functioning. Students who were ACOAs did not demonstrate issues with their perspective on their interpersonal issues any more than the non-ACA students. However, this study did show that there were other underlying problems in the family structure that may attribute to the perception of not being well adjusted in life.\n\nDue to the flawed research that has been conducted in the past, many stereotypes have followed ACOAs. ACOAs have been identified as having a variety of emotional and behavioral problems, such as sleep problems, aggression and lowered self-esteem. When it comes to being a COA or ACOA, there is still hope. Results showed that a supportive and loving relationship with one of the parents can counterbalance the possible negative effects of the relationship with the alcoholic parent. When there is one alcoholic parent in the household, it helps if the child relies on other family members for support. It may be the second parent, siblings or members of the extended family. Having other supportive family members can help the child feel like s/he is not alone. Younger generations of ACOAs scored more positively, in terms of coping mechanisms. This may be due to fact that alcoholism is seen more as an illness nowadays, rather than a moral defect. There has been less victim blaming of alcoholism on parent’s, because it has now been declared a disease rather than a behavioral problem. Studies show that when ACOAs use positive coping mechanisms, it is related to more positive results. When an ACOA approaches their issues, rather than avoids them, it often relates to having a positive outlook. Studies have shown that ACOAs and COAs have more compulsive behaviors that may cause the need for higher achievement. Some ACOAs have shown that the only way to survive is to fend for themselves. This causes a sense of independence that helps them become more self-reliant. Because they perceive that independence and hard work as necessary, ACOAs develop a sense of survival instinct.\n\nCounselors serving ACOAs need to be careful to not assume that the client’s presenting problems are due solely to the parent’s alcoholism. Exploring the ACOAs life events, such as the number of alcoholic parents, length of time the client lived with the alcoholic parent, past interventions, and the role of extended family may help in determining what the correct method of intervention may be.\n\nMany factors can affect marital and/or parenting difficulties, but there has not been any evidence found that can link these issues specifically to ACOAs. Research has been conducted to try to identify issues that arise when someone is a COA. It has been hard to isolate these issues solely to the fact that the child’s parents are alcoholics. Other behaviors need to be studied, like dysfunctional family relationships, childhood abuse and other childhood stressors and how they may contribute to things like depression, anxiety and bad relationships in ACOAs.\n\nCounselors serving ACOAs can also help by working on building coping mechanisms such as creating meaningful relationships with other non-alcoholic family members. Having other family members who are supportive can help the ACOA feel like they are not alone. Counselors can also provide some psycho-education on alcoholism and its effects on family members of alcoholics. Research shows that ACOAs feel less like blaming their parents for their alcoholism after learning that alcoholism is a disease, rather than a behavior.\n\nPrenatal alcohol-related effects can occur with moderate levels of alcohol consumption by non-alcoholic and alcoholic women. Cognitive performance in infants and children is not as impacted by mothers who stopped alcohol consumption early in pregnancy, even if it was resumed after giving birth.\n\nAn analysis of six-year-olds with alcohol exposure during the second-trimester of pregnancy showed lower academic performance and problems with reading, spelling, and mathematical skills. 6% of offspring from alcoholic mothers have Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS). The risk an offspring born to an alcoholic mothers having FAS increases from 6% to 70% if the mother's previous child had FAS.\n\nPeople diagnosed with FAS have IQs ranging from 20–105 (with a mean of 68), and demonstrate poor concentration and attention skills. FAS causes growth deficits, morphological abnormalities, mental retardation, and behavioral difficulties. Among adolescents and adults, those with FAS are more likely to have mental health problems, dropping out or be suspended from schools, problems with the law, require assisted living as an adult, and problems with maintaining employment.\n"}
{"id": "256799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256799", "title": "Aphorism", "text": "Aphorism\n\nAn aphorism (from Greek ἀφορισμός: \"aphorismos\", denoting \"delimitation\", \"distinction\", and \"definition\") is a concise, terse, laconic, and/or memorable expression of a general truth or principle. They are often handed down by tradition from generation to generation. The concept is distinct from those of an adage, brocard, chiasmus, epigram, maxim (legal or philosophical), principle, proverb, and saying; some of these concepts are species of aphorism.\n\nThe word was first used in the \"\" of Hippocrates, a long series of propositions concerning the symptoms and diagnosis of disease and the art of healing and medicine. The often cited first sentence of this work (see Ars longa, vita brevis) is:\nThis aphorism was later applied or adapted to physical science and then morphed into multifarious aphorisms of philosophy, morality, and literature. Presently an aphorism is generally understood to be a concise and eloquent statement of truth.\n\nAphorisms are distinct from axioms. Aphorisms generally originate from experience and custom, whereas axioms are self-evident truths and therefore require no additional proof. Aphorisms have been especially used in subjects to which no methodical or scientific treatment was originally applied, such as agriculture, medicine, jurisprudence and politics.\n\nA famous example is:\n\nAphoristic collections, sometimes known as wisdom literature, have a prominent place in the canons of several ancient societies, such as the Sutra literature of India, the Biblical Ecclesiastes, Islamic hadiths, the golden verses of Pythagoras, Hesiod's \"Works and Days\", the Delphic maxims, and Epictetus' Handbook. Aphoristic collections also make up an important part of the work of some modern authors. A 1559 oil–on–oak-panel painting, \"Netherlandish Proverbs\" (also called \"The Blue Cloak\" or \"The Topsy Turvy World\") by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, artfully depicts a land populated with literal renditions of Flemish aphorisms (proverbs) of the day.\n\nThe first noted published collection of aphorisms is \"Adagia\" by Erasmus. Other important early aphorists were Baltasar Gracián, François de La Rochefoucauld and Blaise Pascal.\n\nTwo influential collections of aphorisms published in the twentieth century were \"The Uncombed Thoughts\" by Stanisław Jerzy Lec (in Polish), and \"Itch of Wisdom\" by Mikhail Turovsky (in Russian and English).\n\nMany societies have traditional sages or culture heroes to whom aphorisms are commonly attributed, such as the Seven Sages of Greece, Confucius or King Solomon.\n\nMisquoted or misadvised aphorisms are frequently used as a source of humour; for instance, wordplays of aphorisms appear in the works of P. G. Wodehouse, Terry Pratchett and Douglas Adams. Aphorisms being misquoted by sports players, coaches, and commentators form the basis of Private Eye's Colemanballs section.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24190634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24190634", "title": "Athenaeum (ancient Rome)", "text": "Athenaeum (ancient Rome)\n\nThe Athenaeum was a school (\"ludus\") founded by the Emperor Hadrian in Rome, for the promotion of literary and scientific studies (ingenuarum artium) and called Athenaeum from the town of Athens, which was still regarded as the seat of intellectual refinement. The Athenaeum was situated near the Capitoline Hill: its site was discovered in 2009 during excavation for the construction of the Rome Metro C Line, in the middle of what is now Piazza Venezia.\n\nA staff of professors, for the various branches of study, was regularly engaged. Under Theodosius II, for example, there were three orators, ten grammarians, five sophists, one philosopher, two lawyers, or jurisconsults. Besides the instruction given by these magistri, poets, orators, and critics were accustomed to recite their compositions there, and these prelections were sometimes honoured with the presence of the emperors themselves. There were other places where such recitations were made, as the Library of Trajan; sometimes also a room was hired, and made into an auditorium.\n\nThe Athenaeum seems to have continued in high repute till the sixth century. Little is known of the details of study or discipline in the Athenaeum, but in the constitution of the year 370, there are some regulations respecting students in Rome, from which it would appear that it must have been a very extensive and important institution. And this is confirmed by other statements contained in some of the Fathers and other ancient authors, from which we learn that young men from all parts, after finishing their usual school and college studies in their own town or province, used to resort to Rome as a sort of higher university, for the purpose of completing their education.\n\nAfter the moving of the capital city to Milan and Constantinople similar schools were opened also in these cities, as well as in the other main cities of the Empire, like Carthage.\n\nIn the modern period, the term \"Athenaeum\" is widely used in various countries for schools, libraries, museums, cultural centers, performance halls and theaters, periodicals, clubs and societies - all aspiring to fulfill a cultural function similar to that of the ancient Roman school. \n"}
{"id": "33712804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33712804", "title": "Before We Forget", "text": "Before We Forget\n\nBefore We Forget is a 2011 observational documentary film about two women with dementia, who live in an Asian society where terminal illnesses and dying remain taboo. It is directed by Singaporean first-time filmmakers Jeremy Boo and Lee Xian Jie, who have also started an online platform that encourages people in Asia to share their experiences about dementia.\n\nThe film tells the story of Joyce Fernandez, a 50-year-old woman caring for her mother, Celine Fernandez, who has had Alzheimer's Disease for 7 years. When Celine suffers a mild stroke and is hospitalized for over three months, Joyce attempts to keep herself together, especially after Celine loses all of what little speech and she originally had. The duo, staunch Catholics, keep their heads above the emotional turmoil through daily prayer.\n\nThe documentary also captures frank interviews with Dr Irene Giam (PhD), a former mathematics tutor and atheist, with strong views about death in the face of terminal illness. She is first filmed after being diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment, likely due to systemic fibrosis, an autoimmune disorder which affects her breathing. After she is warded in a hospice because of her rapidly worsening health, vascular dementia causes her to forget the frequent visits by her husband and deepens her feelings of loneliness.\n\n"}
{"id": "21848311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21848311", "title": "Beyond Baroque Literary Arts Center", "text": "Beyond Baroque Literary Arts Center\n\nBeyond Baroque Literary Arts Center is a literary arts center located at 681 Venice Boulevard, Venice, Los Angeles, California, founded in 1968.\n\nGeorge Drury Smith started publishing the magazine \"Beyond Baroque\" in 1968 from a storefront in Venice, which soon became a meeting place with workshops and space for readings, art, and music. Although 10,000 copies of the first issue were printed offset, subsequent issues were printed in-house using a four-color process. Later the magazines were printed on bound newsprint and distributed free. The workshops, over the years, have generated numerous writers, presses, and some of the leading poets in Los Angeles. The facilitators have included founders Joseph Hansen and John Harris, Leland Hickman, Bob Flanagan, John Thomas, Will Alexander, Jeff McDaniel, Philomene Long, Simone Forti, Sarah Maclay, liz gonzalez, and others. The Center’s first librarian was Exene Cervenka of the \"X\", which was formed when Exene and John Doe met at the Wednesday Night Poetry Workshop. Some of the LA artist Mike Kelley’s first performances were at the Center, and the cover of one of the Center’s early issues of \"Beyond Baroque\", featuring an array of experimental filmmakers, was displayed in the Pompidou’s 2006 show on LA art. The Center's reading series, featuring over 200 writers a year, has included such names as John Ashbery; Amiri Baraka; Raymond Carver; Jerry Casale from the band Devo; Wanda Coleman; Ed Dorn; Allen Ginsberg; Leland Hickman; Philip Levine; Lewis MacAdams; Viggo Mortensen; Harry Northup, original member of the Wednesday night poetry workshop; Alice Notley; Graeme Revell, from the band SPK; Patti Smith; James Tate; V Vale, who formed a tabloid format zine focusing on various counterculture and underground topics named RE/Search Publications documenting punk subculture; and CK Williams, among thousands of others both famous and infamous.\n\nBeyond Baroque archives and sells chapbooks, small press poetry and experimental fiction. An index of the chapbook archive is online. Center series include experimental music, film screenings, and visual art, including the Les Femmes Underground International Film Festival. Beyond Baroque has facilitated or organized festivals, including the citywide World Beyond Festivals, with the World Stage and other LA organizations, and the Beyond Text Festivals, with LACMA and others. Its yearly event with the LA Poetry Festival, the \"Younger Poets\", has consistently presented the best emerging voices from around the Los Angeles region at the Downtown Central Library In addition to on-site work, the Center has curated and organized permanent public art projects highlighting Los Angeles poets, including the Poetry Walls on the Venice Boardwalk and the lobby of the Junipero Serra State Office Building downtown.\n\nPublications that have come out of the Center, some originally through its typesetting facilities, include Momentum Press, edited by Bill Mohr; \"Little Caesar\", edited by programs curator Dennis Cooper; a series edited by David Trinidad; the magazine \"FOREHEAD\", edited by Benjamin Weissman; a readings curator; and more. The Center’s imprint was launched in 1998 by Fred Dewey and has published fourteen books, including works by Nancy Agabian, Ammiel Alcalay, April Durham, Simone Forti, Benjamin Hollander, Philomene Long, K. Curtis Lyle, Olive Martin, Majid Naficy, and Eve Wood, along with anthologies from both the Wednesday Workshop, the World Stage, and several magazines featuring challenging writing and art from around the country and the world, including the recent \"TRUTH ETC\", with works by Ammiel Alcalay, Wanda Coleman, Christoph Dreager, Sesshu Foster, Jean-Luc Godard, Jack Hirschman, Yan Li, David Meltzer, Diane di Prima, and more.\n\nThe Center’s staff and board have historically included writers and artists, from the organization's founding by Smith, an experimental fiction writer, in 1968, through key programming figures, including Dennis Cooper, Manazar Gamboa, Amy Gerstler, Dennis Philips, Benjamin Weissman, Tosh Berman and the current director, Richard Modiano.\n\nThe Center is based near the beach in Los Angeles’s old Venice City Hall, built in 1906. It offers an extensive program of public readings, free workshops, a project room, bookstore, publications, and chapbook/small press archive.\n\nThe Center launched its own imprint, Beyond Baroque Books, in 1998, dedicated to emerging, overlooked, out of print, and experimental writing, as well as the history and legacy of experimental and alternative writing, poetry, and the arts in Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "57293012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57293012", "title": "Bon pour l'Orient", "text": "Bon pour l'Orient\n\nBon pour l'Orient (good enough for the Orient) is a French condescending term that refers to the stamps affixed in the 19th century to the diplomas of students coming from colonial or Ottoman territories. These students were subjected to a less intensive level of education in Western educational institutions and obtained degrees which despite being useless in Europe, were deemed good enough to secure employment in the colonies.\n\nIn modern use, the phrase pejoratively describes practices which although unacceptable in advanced Western countries, might be thought appropriate for less developed countries.\n"}
{"id": "23782532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23782532", "title": "Cache-cœur", "text": "Cache-cœur\n\nA Cache-cœur (French for \"hide the heart\") is a top for women, composed of two finished triangular parts, each having a strap. It is closed by overlapping the two segments and tying the straps behind the back or along the side, depending on the length. The triangular shape of the sides makes the garment a type of V-neck.\n"}
{"id": "2376278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376278", "title": "Centring", "text": "Centring\n\nCentring, centre, centering, or center is a type of falsework: the temporary structure upon which the stones of an arch or vault are laid during construction. Until the keystone is inserted an arch has no strength and needs the centring to keep the voussoirs in their correct relative positions. A simple centering without a truss is called a common centering. A cross piece connecting centering frames is called a lag or bolst.\n\nThe centring is normally made of wood timbers, which was a relatively straightforward structure in a simple arch or vault, but with more complex shapes, involving double curvature, such as a small dome or the bottle-shaped flues of the kitchens of some Norman-period houses; clay or sand bound by a weak lime mortar mix could be used. The shaping of this sort of centring would probably be done by eye, perhaps with the help of a template and the stone or brick structure laid against it. On bigger work, like a 19th-century commercial pottery kiln, this was impractical. The structure would be built round a post acting as a datum, and each course of stonework would be set at a distance from the datum as measured by a stick or string.\n\nOn completion of the intended structure, the centring of whichever sort is removed called \"...\"striking the centering\"...\", and work on pointing and other finishing continued.\n"}
{"id": "6158741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6158741", "title": "Classificatory disputes about art", "text": "Classificatory disputes about art\n\nArt historians and philosophers of art have long had classificatory disputes about art regarding whether a particular cultural form or piece of work should be classified as art. Disputes about what does and does not count as art continue to occur today.\n\nDefining art can be difficult. Aestheticians and art philosophers often engage in disputes about how to define art. By its original and broadest definition, art (from the Latin \"ars\", meaning \"skill\" or \"craft\") is the product or process of the effective application of a body of knowledge, most often using a set of skills; this meaning is preserved in such phrases as \"liberal arts\" and \"martial arts\". However, in the modern use of the word, which rose to prominence after 1750, “art” is commonly understood to be skill used to produce an aesthetic result (Hatcher, 1999).\n\nBritannica Online defines it as \"the use of skill or imagination in the creation of aesthetic objects, environments, or experiences that can be shared with others\". But how best to define the term “art” today is a subject of much contention; many books and journal articles have been published arguing over even the basics of what we mean by the term “art” (Davies, 1991 and Carroll, 2000). Theodor Adorno claimed in 1969 “It is self-evident that nothing concerning art is self-evident any more.” It is not clear who has the right to define art. Artists, philosophers, anthropologists, and psychologists all use the notion of art in their respective fields, and give it operational definitions that are not very similar to each other's.\n\nThe second, more narrow, more recent sense of the word “art” is roughly as an abbreviation for creative art or “fine art.” Here we mean that skill is being used to express the artist’s creativity, or to engage the audience’s aesthetic sensibilities. Often, if the skill is being used to create objects with a practical use, rather than paintings or sculpture with no practical function other than as an artwork, it will be considered it as falling under classifications such as the decorative arts, applied art and craft rather than fine art. Likewise, if the skill is being used in a commercial or industrial way, it will be considered design instead of art. Some thinkers have argued that the difference between fine art and applied art has more to do with value judgments made about the art than any clear definitional difference (Novitz, 1992). The modern distinction does not work well for older periods, such as medieval art, where the most highly regarded art media at the time were often metalwork, engraved gems, textiles and other \"applied arts\", and the perceived value of artworks often reflected the cost of the materials and sheer amount of time spent creating the work at least as much as the creative input of the artist.\n\nIn the Zhou dynasty of ancient China, excellence in the \"liù yì\" (六藝), or \"Six Arts\", was expected of the \"junzi\" (君子), or \"perfect gentleman\", as defined by philosophers like Confucius. Because these arts spanned both the civil and military aspects of life, excelling in all six required a scholar to be very well-rounded and polymathic. The Six Arts were as follows:\n\n\nLater in the history of imperial China, the Six Arts were pared down, creating a similar system of Four Arts for the scholar-official caste to learn and follow:\n\n\nAnother attempt to systematically define art as a grouping of disciplines in antiquity is represented by the ancient Greek Muses. Each of the standard nine Muses symbolized and embodied one of nine branches of what the Greeks called \"techne\", a term which roughly means \"art\" but has also been translated as \"craft\" or \"craftsmanship\", and the definition of the word also included more scientific disciplines. These nine traditional branches were:\n\nIn medieval Christian Europe, universities taught a standard set of seven liberal arts, defined by early medieval philosophers such as Boethius and Alcuin of York and as such centered around philosophy. The definitions of these subjects and their practice was heavily based on the educational system of Greece and Rome. These seven arts were themselves split into two categories:\n\nAt this time, and continuing after the Renaissance, the word \"art\" in English and its cognates in other languages had not yet attained their modern meaning. One of the first philosophers to discuss art in the framework we understand today was Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, who described in his \"Lectures on Aesthetics\" a ranking of the five major arts from most material to most expressive:\n\nHegel's listing of the arts caught on particularly in France, and with continual modifications the list has remained relevant and a subject of debate in French culture into the 21st century. This classification was popularized by Ricciotto Canudo, an early scholar of film who wrote \"Manifesto of the Seventh Art\" in 1923. The epithets given to each discipline by its placement of the list are often used to refer to them through paraphrase, particularly with calling film \"the seventh art\". The French Ministry of Culture often participates in the decision making for defining a \"new\" art. The ten arts are generally given as follows:\n\nThe ongoing dispute over what should constitute the next form of art has been fought for over a century. Currently, there are a variety of contenders for \"le onzième art\", many of which are older disciplines whose practitioners feel that their medium is underappreciated as art. One particularly popular contender for the 11th is multimedia, which is intended to bring together the ten arts just as Canudo argued that cinema was the culmination of the first six arts. Performance art, as separate from the performing arts, has been called \"le douzième\", or \"twelfth\", art.\n\nThe traditional Western classifications since the Renaissance have been variants of the hierarchy of genres based on the degree to which the work displays the imaginative input of the artist, using artistic theory that goes back to the ancient world. Such thinking received something of a boost with the aesthetics of Romanticism. A similar theoretical framework applied in traditional Chinese art; for example in both the Western and Far Eastern traditions of landscape painting (see literati painting), \"imaginary\" landscapes were accorded a higher status than realistic depictions of an actual landscape view - in the West relegated to \"topographical views\".\n\nMany have argued that it is a mistake to even try to define art or beauty, that they have no essence, and so can have no definition. Often, it is said that art is a cluster of related concepts rather than a single concept. Examples of this approach include Morris Weitz and Berys Gaut.\nAnother approach is to say that “art” is basically a sociological category, that whatever art schools and museums, and artists get away with is considered art regardless of formal definitions. This institutional theory of art has been championed by George Dickie. Most people did not consider a store-bought urinal or a sculptural depiction of a Brillo Box to be art until Marcel Duchamp and Andy Warhol (respectively) placed them in the context of art (i.e., the art gallery), which then provided the association of these objects with the values that define art.\n\nProceduralists often suggest that it is the process by which a work of art is created or viewed that makes it, art, not any inherent feature of an object, or how well received it is by the institutions of the art world after its introduction to society at large. For John Dewey, for instance, if the writer intended a piece to be a poem, it is one whether other poets acknowledge it or not. Whereas if exactly the same set of words was written by a journalist, intending them as shorthand notes to help him write a longer article later, these would not be a poem.\n\nLeo Tolstoy, on the other hand, claims that what makes something art or not is how it is experienced by its audience, not by the intention of its creator. Functionalists, like Monroe Beardsley argue that whether a piece counts as art depends on what function it plays in a particular context. For instance, the same Greek vase may play a non-artistic function in one context (carrying wine), and an artistic function in another context (helping us to appreciate the beauty of the human figure).\n\nPhilosopher David Novitz has argued that disagreements about the definition of art are rarely the heart of the problem, rather that “the passionate concerns and interests that humans vest in their social life” are “so much a part of all classificatory disputes about art” (Novitz, 1996). According to Novitz, classificatory disputes are more often disputes about our values and where we are trying to go with our society than they are about theory proper. For example, when the \"Daily Mail\" criticized Damien Hirst and Tracey Emin’s work by arguing \"For 1,000 years art has been one of our great civilising forces. Today, pickled sheep and soiled beds threaten to make barbarians of us all\" they are not advancing a definition or theory about art, but questioning the value of Hirst’s and Emin’s work.\n\nOn the other hand, Thierry de Duve argues that disputes about the definition of art are a necessary consequence of Marcel Duchamp's presentation of a readymade as a work of art. In his 1996 book \"Kant After Duchamp\" he reinterprets Kant's \"Critique of Judgement\" exchanging the phrase \"this is beautiful\" with \"this is art\", using Kantian aesthetics to address post-Duchampian art.\n\nThe work of the French artist Marcel Duchamp from the 1910s and 1920s paved the way for the conceptualists, providing them with examples of prototypically conceptual works (the readymades, for instance) that defied previous categorisations. Conceptual art emerged as a movement during the 1960s. The first wave of the \"conceptual art\" movement extended from approximately 1967 to 1978. Early \"concept\" artists like Henry Flynt, Robert Morris and Ray Johnson influenced the later, widely accepted movement of conceptual artists like Dan Graham, Hans Haacke, and Douglas Huebler.\n\nMore recently, the “Young British Artists” (YBAs), led by Damien Hirst, came to prominence in the 1990s and their work is seen as conceptual, even though it relies very heavily on the art object to make its impact. The term is used in relation to them on the basis that the object is not the artwork, or is often a found object, which has not needed artistic skill in its production. Tracey Emin is seen as a leading YBA and a conceptual artist, even though she has denied that she is and has emphasised personal emotional expression.\n\n1991: Charles Saatchi funds Damien Hirst and the next year in the Saatchi Gallery exhibits his \"The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living\", a shark in formaldehyde in a vitrine.\n\n1993: Vanessa Beecroft holds her first performance in Milan, Italy, using young girls to act as a second audience to the display of her diary of food.\n\n1999: Tracey Emin is nominated for the Turner Prize. Part of her exhibit is \"My Bed\", her dishevelled bed, surrounded by detritus such as condoms, blood-stained knickers, bottles and her bedroom slippers.\n\n2001: Martin Creed wins the Turner Prize for \"The Lights Going On and Off\", an empty room where the lights go on and off.\n\n2002: Miltos Manetas confronts the Whitney Biennial with his Whitneybiennial.com.\n\n2005: Simon Starling wins the Turner Prize for \"Shedboatshed\", a wooden shed which he had turned into a boat, floated down the Rhine and turned back into a shed again.\n\nThe Stuckist group of artists, founded in 1999, proclaimed themselves \"pro-contemporary figurative painting with ideas and anti-conceptual art, mainly because of its lack of concepts.\" They also called it pretentious, \"unremarkable and boring\" and on July 25, 2002, in a demonstration, deposited a coffin outside the White Cube gallery, marked \"The Death of Conceptual Art\". In 2003, the Stuckism International Gallery exhibited a preserved shark under the title \"A Dead Shark Isn't Art\", clearly referencing the Damien Hirst work (see disputes above).\n\nIn a BBC2 \"Newsnight\" programme on 19 October 1999 hosted by Jeremy Paxman with Charles Thomson attacking that year's Turner Prize and artist Brad Lochore defending it, Thomson was displaying Stuckist paintings, while Lochore had brought along a plastic detergent bottle on a cardboard plinth. At one stage Lochore states, \"if people say it's art, it's art\". Paxman asks, \"So you can say anything is art?\" and Lochore replies, \"You could say everything is art...\" At this point Thomson, off-screen, can be heard to say, \"Is my shoe art?\" while at the same time his shoe appears in front of Lochore, who observes, \"If you say it is. I have to judge it on those terms.\" Thomson's response is, \"I've never heard anything so ludicrous in my life before.\"\n\nIn 2002, Ivan Massow, the Chairman of the Institute of Contemporary Arts branded conceptual art \"pretentious, self-indulgent, craftless tat\" and in \"danger of disappearing up its own arse ... led by cultural tsars such as the Tate's Sir Nicholas Serota\". Massow was consequently forced to resign. At the end of the year, the Culture Minister, Kim Howells, an art school graduate, denounced the Turner Prize as \"cold, mechanical, conceptual bullshit\".\n\nIn October 2004, the Saatchi Gallery told the media that \"painting continues to be the most relevant and vital way that artists choose to communicate.\" Following this, Charles Saatchi began to sell prominent works from his YBA (Young British Artists) collection.\n\nComputer games date back as far as 1947, although they did not reach much of an audience until the 1970s. It would be difficult and odd to deny that computer and video games include many kinds of art (bearing in mind, of course, that the concept \"art\" itself is, as indicated, open to a variety of definitions). The graphics of a video game constitute digital art, graphic art, and probably video art; the original soundtrack of a video game clearly constitutes music. However it is a point of debate whether the video game as a whole should be considered a piece of art of some kind, perhaps a form of interactive art.\n\nFilm critic Roger Ebert, for example, has gone on record claiming that video games are not art, and for structural reasons will always be inferior to cinema, but then, he admits his lack of knowledge in the area when he affirmed that he \"will never play a game when there is a good book to be read or a good movie to be watched.\". Video game designer Hideo Kojima has argued that playing a videogame is not art, but games do have artistic style and incorporate art. Video game designer Chris Crawford argues that video games are art.\nEsquire columnist Chuck Klosterman also argues that video games are art. Tadhg Kelly argues that play itself is not art and that fun is a constant required for all games so the art in games is the art of location and place rather than interaction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23506972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23506972", "title": "Cyneweard of Laughern", "text": "Cyneweard of Laughern\n\nCyneweard of Laughern or simply Cyneweard (died 1079 x 1086) was a mid-11th century Anglo-Saxon thegn and sheriff in Worcestershire, England. Probably the son of Æthelric Kiu and grand-nephew of Wulfstan Lupus, Archbishop of York (1003–1023), he was one of the leading nobles of the county at the Norman Conquest of England. On the death of Edward the Confessor he held lands in Gloucestershire and Warwickshire as well as Worcestershire.\n\nA vassal of the bishops of Worcester, he was sheriff in the county until 1069. He lost this after the arrival of Urse d'Abetot, and it was Urse and his brother Robert Despenser who deprived Cyneweard and his family of many of their holdings in the region. Cyneweard's other holding were taken by this family after his own death, which occurred sometime between 1079 and 1086.\n\nCyneweard's name was uncommon in Anglo-Saxon England. It occurs only seven times in the \"Domesday Book\", and it is probable that all references are to Cyneweard of Laughern. From the evidence in \"Domesday\", Cyneweard held under the Bishop of Worcester half a hide at Laughern, Wichenford, five hides at Wyre Piddle, two hides at Elmley Castle, and along with his probable vassal Ulfkil, a manor of three hides at Hanley. \n\nIn Warwickshire Cyneweard possessed, along with a thegn named Beorhtric, six hides at Stretton-on-Fosse. In Gloucestershire, he held a manor of two hides at Duntisbourne Abbots, and in the same county in the vill of Coates he held one of three manors; his manor was worth one hide, with another one-hide manor being held by Beorhtric, and a third manor worth half a hide being held by a thegn named Leofwine. It is likely that Cyneweard held in 1066 the five hide manor of Duntisbourne Abbots later given by the mother of Roger de Lacy to Gloucester Abbey.\n\nCyneweard was probably the son of Æthelric Kiu, a relative of Wulfstan (nicknamed \"Lupus\"), Archbishop of York (1003–1023) and Bishop of Worcester (1003–1016). Archbishop Wulfstan's sister Wulfgifu had married a Worcester thegn named Wulfric. It is known that Wulfgifu (presumably with Wulfric) had a son named Beorhtheah, who himself became Bishop of Worcester (1033–1038); it is likely that they had another son called Æthelric, as Hemming describes Æthelric and Beorhtheah as brothers.\n\nHistorian Ann Williams argued that, on the evidence land-holdings, Cyneweard was the son of this Æthelric. This argument has been accepted by other historians, such as the historian of the earldom of Mercia, Stephen Baxter. A thegn named Godric is known directly to have been the son of this Æthelric too, and thus Cyneweard's brother. They had a sister named Eadgyth, who became a nun and was still living in 1086.\n\nBeorhtheah used his position as bishop to lease to his brother Æthelric, Cyneweard's probable father, manors at Alton, Himbleton, Lower Wolverton and Whittington. Æthelric complemented the family's landholdings by receiving more leased land from his brother's successor Lyfing, bishop of Worcester with a little interruption from 1038 or 1039 until 1046. This included Elmley Castle held by Cyneweard in 1066, as well as Armscote, Bentley-in-Holt and Hill Croome. These bishops leased out other lands to other members of this family, meaning that in 1066 Cyneweard was a leading member of a kin-group, closely related to the famous bishop, strongly entrenched and dominant in the region. Not associated (unlike some thegns in the region) with the family of the Earl of Mercia, Williams describes Cyneweard and his kindred as \"in the \"mouvance\" of the bishops of Worcester just as much if not more than the king\".\n\nIt is clear from a document dating to 1079 x 1089 that Cyneweard held, at an earlier date, the position of sheriff of Worcester. Records are poor, and it is unclear when he obtained this position, but he probably held it until the arrival of the Norman knight Urse d'Abetot in 1069. He had survived the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, and however he lost this position to Urse in 1069 (it is not known), he was still alive in 1072 when he witnessed a charter [as \"Kineward de Lauro\"] of Robert de Stafford. He was the last Anglo-Saxon sheriff of the county.\n\nHe probably survived for some time after that, as he was present at a plea between the church of Worcester and Evesham Abbey regarding the estates of Bengeworth and Hampton heard at an unknown date between 1079 and 1083. These manors were held by Evesham but Worcester claimed them as part of the triple hundred of the Oswaldslow. The suit was between Bishop Wulfstan (II) of Worcester and Walter, Abbot of Evesham, and Cyneweard's appearance was made, along with other Worcestershire notables, to substantiate Wulfstan's claim, a claim to which Abbot Walter yielded. \n\nAccording to Hemming, after Cyneweard's death his manors of Laughern and Elmley Castle were seized by Urse d'Abetot's brother Robert Despenser. This must have occurred before 1086, when it was recorded in \"Domesday Book\" that they were in Robert's possession. Cyneweard's brother Godric had lost his land at Alton to William fitz Osbern sometime in or before 1071, the year of William's death, though despite this Godric was still alive in 1086.\n\n"}
{"id": "9408966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9408966", "title": "Eclecticism in music", "text": "Eclecticism in music\n\nIn music, eclecticism is the conscious use of styles alien to the composer's own nature, or from a bygone era. The term is also used pejoratively to describe music whose composer, thought to be lacking originality, appears to have freely drawn on other models . This word can also be used to describe the music of composers who combine multiple styles, such as using a whole-tone variant of a pentatonic folksong over chromatic counterpoint, or a tertian arpeggiating melody over quartal or secundal harmonies. Eclecticism can also be through quotations, whether of a style (e.g., Shostakovich: Symphony No. 9), direct quotations of folksongs/variations of them (e.g., Mahler: Symphony No. 1; II and III) or direct quotations of other composers (e.g., Berio: Sinfonia; III) .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3333758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3333758", "title": "Educational stage", "text": "Educational stage\n\nEducational stages are subdivisions of formal learning, typically covering early childhood education, primary education, secondary education and tertiary (or higher) education. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) recognizes seven levels of education in its International Standard Classification of Education system (ISCED, from Level 0 (pre-primary education) through Level 6 (second stage of tertiary education)). UNESCO's International Bureau of Education maintains a database of country-specific education systems and their stages.\n\nEducation during childhood and early adulthood is typically provided through either a two- or three-stage system of childhood school, followed by additional stages of higher education or vocational education for those who continue their formal education:\n\nThe following table introduces the main concepts, although terms and ages may vary in different places:\n\nFor additional ISCED stages of education, see ISCED.\n\nSudbury schools do not use formal grade levels or educational stages. Instead, students ages 4 through 18 are intermingled in a democratic educational system, relying on a series of certifications to use equipment that may require specialized knowledge or safety procedures. These certifications are not typically restricted by age, but rather by demonstrated ability.\n\nIn Australia, children undergo thirteen years of formal education (plus non-compulsory preschool or kindergarten), usually starting at age 4, 5 or 6, and finishing at age 16, 17 or 18. The years are numbered from \"Prep/Kindergarten\" to 12.\n\nIn New South Wales (NSW), Western Australia (WA), Queensland (QLD) and Victoria (VIC), primary school is Kindergarten (NSW)/Prep (Vic & Qld)/Pre-primary (WA) and Years 1–6, and secondary school, Years 7–12 (see table below).\n\nIn the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) and Tasmania (TAS), primary school is Kindergarten (ACT)/Prep (Tas) and years 1–6, secondary school is years 7–10 and college or Senior Secondary is years 11 and 12 (see table below).\n\nIn South Australia, primary school is Reception and Years 1–7, and secondary school is Years 8–12 (see table below).\n\nIn Belarus, education is guaranteed for everyone. Primary school lasts for 4 years, but some psycho-physically challenged children study for 5 years according to a special standard. Forms 1 to 9 are considered compulsory. After completing general basic school a person can study in a special establishment to get a job. To enter a higher educational establishment a person must complete general secondary school (all 11 forms) and pass three centralized tests.\n\nIn Brazil, there are three levels of basic education: \"Educação Infantil\" (preschool), \"Ensino Fundamental\" (primary school) and \"Ensino Médio\" (high school), which are generally completed by age eighteen. Basic education is designed to provide the necessary minimum knowledge for the exercise of citizenship. It also serves to develop consciousness for choosing future professions. In Brazil, after the name of the grade one may use the names \"série\" or \"ano.\" The educational stages in Brazil are divided as follows:\n\nIn Canada, schooling officially begins at Kindergarten (or Maternelle in Quebec), followed by \"grades\", with some variations for certain levels in certain provinces/territories. When referred to as a grade, school years are usually referred to by their cardinal number (\"Grade Three\").\n\nAt the post-secondary level in (Anglophone) Canada, a student is usually referred to by the year of study they are in (i.e. First Year, Second Year, etc.). If they are pursuing something higher than an undergraduate degree, the designation usually refers to what year of study they are in since entering Graduate studies (i.e. First Year Graduate Student, etc.). Any student who has completed their first year of undergraduate studies is considered to be an Upper Year Student.\n\nEach province and territory has its own autonomous education system. As such, the name of each level of education and what year each level begins at will vary across the country (as will the curriculum itself).\n\nThe following table shows how grades are organized in various provinces. Often, there will be exceptions within each province, both with terminology for groups, and which grades apply to each group.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China (excluding Hong Kong and Macau), the years are organized in three stages and renumbered within each stage: 6 years in elementary school (小学) years 1 to 6, then 3 years in lower secondary (初级中学, abbreviated 初中) years 7 to 9, then 3 years in higher secondary (高级中学, abbreviated 高中) years 1 to 3. The first nine years (elementary 1–6 and junior secondary 1–3) are compulsory, and the years in higher secondary school are voluntary. Completing higher secondary education or attaining an equivalent level is required before one may receive higher education (高等教育) at universities.\n\nThe Hong Kong system was based on the United Kingdom system, with an optional year at kindergarten, six years of primary school (小學) and six years of secondary school (中學), followed by four years at university. Primary 1 – 6 (小一 – 小六) corresponds to Years 1 – 6 in the UK, and Forms 1 – 6 (中一 – 中六) correspond to Years 7 – 12. Usually students begin Primary 1 at age 5 or 6 and complete Form 6 at age 17 or 18.\n\nIn Hong Kong, international schools follow the system of the country they are based upon, for example the English Schools Foundation uses the UK year system, and French International Schools use the French collège, école, lycée system. Also, the English term \"form\" followed by the English number is common usage even in otherwise Cantonese conversations.\n\nEducation is compulsory from age 6 to age 14 or 16.\nAt the end of the \"lycée\" cursus, is the French Baccalaureat exam.\nIt is possible in France to fail a year, and need to resit (\"redoubler\").\n\nThe central and most state boards uniformly follow the \"10+2+3\" pattern of education. In this pattern, study of 10 years is done in schools and 2 years in Junior colleges,and then 3 years of graduation for a bachelor's degree. The first 10 years is further subdivided into 4 years of primary education, 6 years of High School followed by 2 years of Junior colleges. This pattern originated from the recommendation of the Education Commission of 1964–66.\n\n\nThe Indian government lays emphasis on primary education, also referred to as elementary education, to children aged 6 to 14 years old. Because education laws are given by the states, duration of primary school visit alters between the Indian states. The Indian government has also banned child labour in order to ensure that the children do not enter unsafe working conditions.However, both free education and the ban on child labour are difficult to enforce due to economic disparity and social conditions.80% of all recognised schools at the elementary stage are government run or supported, making it the largest provider of education in the country.\n\nSecondary education covers children aged 12 to 18, a group comprising 8.85 crore children according to the 2001 Census of India. The final two years of secondary is often called Higher Secondary (HS), Senior Secondary, or simply the \"+2\" stage. The two halves of secondary education are each an important stage for which a pass certificate is needed, and thus are affiliated by central boards of education under HRD ministry, before one can pursue higher education, including college or professional courses.\n\nUGC, NCERT, CBSE and ICSE directives state qualifying ages for candidates who wish to take board exams. Those at least 15 years old by 30 May for a given academic year are eligible to appear for Secondary board exams, and those 17 by the same date are eligible to appear for Higher Secondary certificate board exams. It further states that upon successful completion of Higher Secondary, one can apply to higher education under UGC control such as Engineering, Medical, and Business Administration.\n\nIn Indonesia, children spend 12 years of formal education, but some children attend nursery playgroup (called Kelompok Belajar in 2 years) and attend kindergarten (Called Taman Kanak-Kanak in 2 years).\nThe Iranian system has experienced several changes in the last seven to eight decades. Prior to 1940–1950, the education system had consisted of three levels, called in order: an optional year in kindergarten, six years of primary school, finally followed by six years of secondary school ending up with a diploma. After some improvements during Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi, the system was changed to four consecutive periods: two optional years in kindergarten and pre-primary school, primary school consisting of 5 years, 3 years in middle school, and finally four years in high school. The system ended up by honoring a diploma in certain majors, e.g. math and physics.\n\nAround 1996–1997, one year was reduced from the entire education system and one was honored with a diploma after three years in high school. However, if one would have liked to continue her/his education towards university degrees, one would have been required to take the last year, so called pre-university year. This year had been a requirement to participate in the Iranian University Entrance Exam for high school students. Again, around 2012, the system turned back to its previous system, consisting of two 6-year periods.\n\nThere are 2 formal stages of education in Iran: primary school (دبستان, \"Dabestãn\") and high school (دبیرستان, \"Dabirestãn\"). The high school itself is broken into 2 parts: A and B. Preschool educations are informal, therefore Grade 1 is the first year. In Grade 1 (پایه‌ی 1, \"Paye 1\") also known as the 1st class (کلاس اوّل, \"Klãs Avval\"), children learn the basics of reading and writing.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, there are two levels of compulsory education; primary school (\"ca.\"5–12 years of age) and secondary school (\"ca.\"12–18 years). The names of each class are as follows:\n\n\nAfter Sixth Class, students move to secondary school, entering;\n\nJunior Cycle:\n\nSenior Cycle:\n\nIn some schools, Transition Year is compulsory, in others it is optional, and in others is not available.\n\nIn Italy, education is compulsory from the age of 6 to the age of 16. On parents' demand, children can start the \"Scuola primaria\" (see below) one year earlier.\n\n\"Educazione Infantile\":\n\n\n\"Scuola primaria\" (informally: \"Scuola Elementare)\":\n\"Scuola secondaria di primo grado\" (informally: \"Scuola Media\"):\n\"Scuola secondaria di secondo grado\" (informally: \"Scuola Superiore)\":\n\nIn Japan, the years are organized in three stages and renumbered within each stage: 6 years in elementary school (小学校, \"shōgakkō\") years 1 to 6, then 3 years in lower secondary (中学校, \"chūgakkō\") years 1 to 3, then 3 years in higher secondary (高等学校, \"kōtōgakkō\", abbreviated 高校, \"kōkō\") years 1 to 3. The first nine years (elementary 1–6 and lower secondary 1–3) are compulsory, and the years in higher secondary school are voluntary. Completing higher secondary education or attaining an equivalent level is required before one may receive higher education at universities (大学, \"daigaku\").\n\nCompulsory education in Malaysia spans a period of 11 years and comprises both primary and secondary education. Kindergarten is optional.\n\nMalaysian primary school consists of six years of education, referred to as Year 1 to Year 6 (formerly Standard 1 to Standard 6). Year 1 – 3 are classified as Level One (\"Tahap Satu\" in Malay) while Year 4 – 6 make up Level Two (\"Tahap Dua\"). Primary schooling usually begins at the age of 7 and ends at 12. Students take their first national examination, the UPSR, towards the end of the Year 6 school year. Performance in the UPSR has no effect on their resuming schooling; all students continue with their secondary education after leaving primary school.\n\nSecondary schooling usually begins at age 13. Secondary schools offer education for a total of five years, starting with Form 1 and finishing at Form 5. Forms 1 – 3 are grouped together into the \"Lower Form\" and Forms 4 & 5 are considered the \"Upper Form\". Students in Form 3 will have to sit for their second national exam, the PT3. They are then streamed into sciences or humanities classes for the Upper Form according to their performance in this exam. At age 17 students in Form 5 sit for the final level of national examinations, the SPM (Malaysian Certificate of Education). Achieving a passing grade in the \"Bahasa Melayu\" (Malay Language) portion of the exams is compulsory; failure results in an automatic failing grade for all subjects taken in the examination and the student is held back to repeat Form 5. Completion of the examination signifies that the student has completed formal education in Malaysia; an SPM certificate remains the base requirement to secure most jobs in Malaysia.\n\nAfter the SPM, students have a choice of either continuing with Form 6 (which comprises 2 years, Lower and Upper Six) or entering matriculation (pre-university programs). If they opt for Form 6, they will be required to take the STPM examination. Although generally taken by those desiring to attend public universities in Malaysia, an STPM certification is internationally recognized and may also be used, though rarely required, to enter private local universities for undergraduate courses.\n\nIn Mexico, grades 1 through 12 can be divided into two stages: \"Educación Básica,\" and \"Educación Media Superior\". \"Educación Básica\" covers pre-primary education to the equivalent of eighth grade. \"Educación Media Superior\" covers ninth through twelfth grade, and students' levels are identified by their current semester, not by their grade.\n\n In Nepal, the stages of education are primary education, secondary education, and higher secondary. Pre-primary education is also found in some areas. Generally, the pre-primary level covers nursery and kindergarten. Primary education consists of grades one through five, while lower secondary education covers grades six through eight and secondary education covers grades nine through ten. Higher secondary covers grades eleven and twelve. Students get Secondary Education Examination certificate in grade ten. According to the new Education Act, the national grade 12 Examination will result in the School Leaving Certificate (SLC).\n\nIn New Zealand children are required by law to attend 10 years of educational instruction, from the age of 6 to 16. The law also provides in the same legislation that all people are allowed to attend free education to the age of 18, this legislation is the Education Act 1989. Children can enroll at primary school when they turn five years old, and must be enrolled by the time they turn six years old. From years 1–6 students attend primary school. In years 7 and 8 students attend intermediate, or a joint school (years 1–8 or years 7–13). The final years of free education are spent in secondary school (years 9–13). New Zealand also has two older educational stage-numbering systems; standards 5 & 6 were largely unused with the introduction of intermediate schools in the 1950s, while \"primmer\" numbering was in use well into the 1970s, and some academically focused secondary schools still use \"form\" numbering.\n\nIn Norway children start school at the age of six; before that kindergarten is voluntary. This school is called \"barneskole\" (childrenschool):\n\n\nThe second school is \"ungdomsskole\" (youth-school). At this level the students are rated with grades in each subject, in addition to behavior and orderliness:\n\n\nThe last school before higher education is called \"videregående skole\" (ongoing school) and is voluntary, though most choose to attend. At this level students decide among separate career-related schools. The most popular such school is designed to prepare one for further education, while others prepare students for such as mechanics, electricians, cooks and so on. Educational stages in these schools begin again at \"one\" and are named Vg1, Vg2, Vg3 and Vg4. Some of the more practical schools last only two years, and some students may choose to attend an extra year to study higher education. The typical duration is three years, though some schools offer a four-year program to enable students to engage in more athletics or gather real work experience.\n\n\nPreviously in the Philippines, there are only ten years of compulsory education. School starts on the first or second week of June, while school ends in the last week of March or first week of April. There are three stages of education in the Philippines — elementary, junior high school, and senior high school. The original ten years of compulsory education, was raised to twelve years of education. This policy was implemented in June, 2012. Here is the table:\n\nIn Russia, compulsory education lasts eight or nine years and begins the year the child turns seven (8 years) or, sometimes, six (9 years). The first stage of elementary school can last either 3 years (so called 1–3 programme for children starting at the age of 7) or 4 years (so called 1–4 programme for children starting at the age of 6). After of the first stage all pupils enter 5th grade, thus pupils that started at the age of 7 do not attend the 4th grade.\n\nWhile it is not compulsory to remain in school after graduating from middle school, a student cannot progress to tertiary school without graduating from high school or vocational school.\n\nIn Singapore, compulsory education lasts ten years and begins the year the child turns seven. However, most children receive a preschool education spanning two to three years before entering primary school after which they will move on to a secondary school, where Sec 5 is only made compulsory for students who have achieved a determined score for their PSLE. For Secondary School, there are two (some) or three streamings: Express (Exp), Normal Academic (NA), and Normal Technical (NT), among which Exp and NT students study for four years while NA students need to study for five years. Depending on which stream one is in, and whether the school's scoring requirement is met, a student may be retained/transferred to NA/NT.\nWhile it is not compulsory to remain in school after graduating from secondary school, most go on to receive their tertiary education at a junior college, a polytechnic, or an institute of technical education (ITE) before moving on to university.\n\nIn Sweden children start school at the age of seven; before that preschool is voluntary. It is unusual to skip a year of \"preschool class\", with most children attending at age six.\n\n\nFirst set of grades are called \"lågstadiet\" (low grades).\n\nSecond set of grades are called \"mellanstadiet\" (middle grades).\n\nThird set of grades are called \"högstadiet\" (high grades).\n\nThe last school before higher education is called \"gymnasiet\" (ongoing school) and is voluntary, though most choose to attend. At this level students decide among separate career-related schools. Some of the more practical schools last only two years, and some students may choose to attend an extra year to study higher education. The typical duration is three years, though some schools offer a four-year program to enable students to engage in more athletics or gather real work experience.\n\n\nIn England and Wales education is divided into two stages: primary education and secondary education. Required assessment within the National Curriculum takes place in years 2 and 6 (National Curriculum assessments) and Year 11 (GCSEs). School education is generally followed by two years of further education – often in a 6th form or 6th form college and then three or four years at university by those who decide to stay in education.\n\nChildren begin school either in the school year or school term in which they reach their fifth birthday. Primary schools educate children from Reception through to Year 6, and may be subdivided into infant and junior schools. Alternatively, children may attend private prep schools.\n\nSecondary education is compulsory to the age of 16. However, in England you will be required to return to full time education, take on an apprenticeship or internship or work or volunteer at least 20 hours a week while part time studying until the age of 18. Schools have various possible names, such as grammar, comprehensive and secondary schools, which may or may not indicate selective admission or tuition fees (see main article). 6th form|6th form education is not compulsory at present, and not all secondary schools have a 6th form. There are also 6th form colleges just for Year 12 and 13 students.\n\nSome secondary schools still use the 'form' system, with Year 7 being 1st Form (or '1st year'), Year 8 being Second Form, et cetera, up until Year 12 and Year 13, which together make up the 6th Form (namely lower and upper sixth form). Some independent schools use other naming systems.\n\nIn some areas in England, a three-tier system of education is used, in which students pass through three stages: First school/Lower school (Reception to Year 3/4), Middle school (Year 4/5 to Year 7/8) and finally High or Upper School (Year 8/9–Year 13)\n\nIn Scotland, education is divided into two stages: primary education and secondary education. Primary education is delivered almost exclusively through primary schools which offer education for pupils aged between 4 and 12. Children are entitled to pre-school education from their third birthday, and must enter compulsory education from the August after their 5th birthday. There is some leeway in the starting date or pupils.\nEducation lasts 7 years in the primary school, before pupils move to a secondary school for between 4 and 6 years, the last two being optional.\nThere is some variation in the phasing of education in more remote areas of Scotland, where provision may be made in a through school, or in other combinations of institutes.\n\nIn the United States (U.S.), the \"grades\" traditionally begin at 1 and run to 12; they are referred to by ordinal number (e.g. first grade, or 3rd grade to 12th grade). An additional preceding level called kindergarten (\"K\") is now standard in most areas, and a further preceding level called preschool education or nursery school is not uncommon. In some parts of the state of Wisconsin, kindergarten is split further into junior and senior kindergarten.\n\nBefore the term \"middle school\" became much more commonly applied, grades 7–8 were placed in \"junior high school\" (with grade 6 in some schools).\n\nAt the secondary school level (\"high school\"), grades 9–12 are also known as freshman (or \"first-year\"), sophomore, junior, and senior. At the post-secondary level (college or university), these terms are used almost exclusively to refer to what would otherwise be grades 13–16, ending denoted as \"college senior\". Then come post-graduate levels.\nThe Table US (\"at left)\" outlines the ages, in years, of each grade level in the US. However, students are sometimes older because of grade retention or younger because of grade skipping.\n\nIn some classes, students from various grades might attend together as a multi-grade class, to offer more variety in course subjects, rather than have only a single grade attend those classes.\n"}
{"id": "3547357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3547357", "title": "Environmental art", "text": "Environmental art\n\nEnvironmental art is a range of artistic practices encompassing both historical approaches to nature in art and more recent ecological and politically motivated types of works. Environmental art has evolved away from formal concerns, worked out with earth as a sculptural material, towards a deeper relationship to systems, processes and phenomena in relationship to social concerns. Integrated social and ecological approaches developed as an ethical, restorative stance emerged in the 1990s. Over the past ten years environmental art has become a focal point of exhibitions around the world as the social and cultural aspects of climate change come to the forefront.\n\nThe term \"environmental art\" often encompasses \"ecological\" concerns but is not specific to them. It primarily celebrates an artist's connection with nature using natural materials. The concept is best understood in relationship to historic earth/Land art and the evolving field of ecological art. The field is interdisciplinary in the fact that environmental artists embrace ideas from science and philosophy. The practice encompasses traditional media, new media and critical social forms of production. The work embraces a full range of landscape/environmental conditions from the rural, to the suburban and urban as well as urban/rural industrial.\n\nIt can be argued that environmental art began with the Paleolithic cave paintings of our ancestors. While no landscapes have (yet) been found, the cave paintings represented other aspects of nature important to early humans such as animals and human figures. \"They are prehistoric observations of nature. In one-way or another, nature for centuries remained the preferential theme of creative art.\" More modern examples of environmental art stem from landscape painting and representation. When artists painted onsite they developed a deep connection with the surrounding environment and its weather and brought these close observations into their canvases. John Constable's sky paintings \"most closely represent the sky in nature\". Monet's London Series also exemplifies the artist's connection with the environment. \"For me, a landscape does not exist in its own right, since its appearance changes at every moment; but the surrounding atmosphere brings it to life, the air and the light, which vary continually for me, it is only the surrounding atmosphere that gives subjects their true value.\"\nContemporary painters, such as Diane Burko represent natural phenomena—and its change over time—to convey ecological issues, drawing attention to climate change. Alexis Rockman's landscapes depict a sardonic view of climate change and humankind's interventions with other species by way of genetic engineering.\n\nThe growth of environmental art as a \"movement\" began in the late 1960s and early 1970s. In its early phases it was most associated with sculpture—especially Site-specific art, Land art and Arte povera—having arisen out of mounting criticism of traditional sculptural forms and practices that were increasingly seen as outmoded and potentially out of harmony with the natural environment.\n\nIn October 1968, Robert Smithson organized an exhibition at Dwan Gallery in New York titled “Earthworks.” The works in the show posed an explicit challenge to conventional notions of exhibition and sales, in that they were either too large or too unwieldy to be collected; most were represented only by photographs, further emphasizing their resistance to acquisition. For these artists escaping the confines of the gallery and modernist theory was achieved by leaving the cities and going out into the desert.\n\n”They were not depiciting the landscape, but engaging it; their art was not simply of the landscape, but in it as well.” This shift in the late 1960s and 1970s represents an avant garde notion of sculpture, the landscape and our relationship with it. The work challenged the conventional means to create sculpture, but also defied more elite modes of art dissemination and exhibition, such as the Dawn Gallery show mentioned earlier. This shift opened up a new space and in doing so expanded the ways in which work was documented and conceptualized.\n\nIn Europe, artists such as Nils Udo, Jean-Max Albert, Piotr Kowalski, among others, had been creating environmental art such as Sculptures Bachelard since the 1960s.\n\nIn 1978 Barry Thomas and friends illegally occupied a vacant CBD lot in Wellington New Zealand. He dumped a truck load of topsoil then planted 180 cabbage seedlings in the shape of the word \"Cabbage\" for his 'vacant lot of cabbages. The site was then inundated with contributing artists' work - the whole event lasted 6 months and ended with a week long festival celebrating native trees and forests. In 2012, Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa—the country's largest cultural institution—purchased all of the cabbage patch archives citing it as 'an important part of our artistic and social history'.\n\nWhile this earlier work was mostly done in the deserts of the American west, the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s saw works moving into the public landscape. Artists like Robert Morris began engaging county departments and public arts commissions to create works in public spaces such as an abandoned gravel pit. Herbert Bayer used a similar approach and was selected to create his Mill Creek Canyon Earthworks in 1982. The project served functions such as erosion control, a place to serve as a reservoir during high rain periods, and a 2.5 acre park during dry seasons. Lucy Lippard's groundbreaking book, on the parallel between contemporary land art and prehistoric sites, examined the ways in which these prehistoric cultures, forms and images have \"overlaid\" onto the work of contemporary artists working with the land and natural systems.\n\nThe expanding term of environmental art also encompasses the scope of the urban landscape. Agnes Denes created a work in downtown Manhattan \"Wheatfield - A Confrontation\" (1982) in which she planted a field of wheat on the two-acre site of a landfill covered with urban detritus and rubble. The site is now Battery Park City and the World Financial Center: morphing from ecologic power to economic power.\n\nAlan Sonfist introduced the key environmentalist idea of bringing nature back into the urban environment with his first historical Time Landscape sculpture, proposed to New York City in 1965, and visible to this day at the corner of Houston and LaGuardia in New York City’s Greenwich Village. Today Sonfist is joining forces with the broad enthusiasm for environmental and green issues among public authorities and private citizens to propose a network of such sites across the metropolitan area, which will raise consciousness of the key role that nature will play in the challenges of the 21st century. The sacredness of nature and the natural environment is often evident in the work of Environmental Artists.\n\nJust as the earthworks in the deserts of the west grew out of notions of landscape painting, the growth of public art stimulated artists to engage the urban landscape as another environment and also as a platform to engage ideas and concepts about the environment to a larger audience. \"Many environmental artists now desire not merely an audience for their work but a public, with whom they can correspond about the meaning and purpose of their art.\" Andrea Polli's installation \"Particle Falls\" made particulate matter in the air visible in a way that passersby could see. For \"HighWaterLine\" Eve Mosher and others walked through neighborhoods in at-risk cities such as New York City and Miami, marking the projected flood damage which could occur as a result of climate change and talking with\nresidents about what they were doing.\n\nSuperstorm Sandy initiated numerous artists responses to New York City's forgotten waterfront and historical waterways. The exhibition, \"Silent Beaches, Untold Stories: New York City's Forgotten Waterfront\", curated by St. John's University professor, Elizabeth Alpert, presented a range of artists approaches to the urban environment and complex ecological systems of New York City.\n\nEcological art a.k.a. EcoArt is an artistic practice or discipline proposing paradigms sustainable with the life forms and resources of our planet. It is composed of artists, scientists, philosophers and activists who are devoted to the practices of ecological art. Historical precedents include Earthworks, Land Art, and landscape painting/photography. EcoArt is distinguished by a focus on systems and interrelationships within our environment: the ecological, geographic, political, biological and cultural. Ecoart creates awareness, stimulates dialogue, changes human behavior towards other species, and encourages the long-term respect for the natural systems we coexist with. It manifests as socially engaged, activist, community-based restorative or interventionist art. Ecological artist, Aviva Rahmani believes that \"Ecological Art is an art practice, often in collaboration with scientists, city planners, architects and others, that results in direct intervention in environmental degradation. Often, the artist is the lead agent in that practice.\" There are numerous approaches to EcoArt including but not limited to:\n\n• \"Representational Artworks\" - revealing information and conditions primarily through image-making and object-making with the intention of stimulating dialogue. <br>\n• \"Remediation Projects\" that reclaim or restore polluted and disrupted environments – these artists often work with environmental scientists, landscape architects and urban planners <br>\n• \"Activist Projects\" that engage, inform, energize and activate change of behaviors and/or public policy.<br>\n• \"Social Sculptures\" – socially engaged, time-based artwork that involves communities in monitoring their landscapes and taking a participatory role in sustainable practices and lifestyles. <br> \n• \"EcoPoetic\" approaches that initiate a re-envisioning and re-enchantment with the natural world, inspiring healing and co-existence with other species.<br> \n• \"Direct Encounters\" – artworks that bring into play natural phenomena such as water, weather, sunlight, plants, etc. <br>\n• \"Didactic or Pedagogical Works\" that share information about environmental injustice and ecological problems such as water and soil pollution and health hazards.<br> \n• \"Lived-and-relational Aesthetics\" involving sustainable, off-the-grid, permaculture existences.\n\nContributions by women in the area of EcoArt are significant, many are cataloged in WEAD, Women Environmental Artists Directory founded in 1995 by Jo Hanson, Susan Leibovitz Steinman and Estelle Akamine.\n\nEcoArt definition:\nThere is discussion and debate among Ecological Artists, if Ecological Art or EcoArt, should be considered a discrete discipline within the Arts, distinct from Environmental Art. A current definition of Ecological Art, drafted collectively by the EcoArtNetwork is \"Ecological Art is an art practice that embraces an ethic of social justice in both its content and form/materials. EcoArt is created to inspire caring and respect, stimulate dialogue, and encourage the long-term flourishing of the social and natural environments in which we live. It commonly manifests as socially engaged, activist, community-based restorative or interventionist art. \"Artists considered to be working within this field subscribe generally to one or more of the following principles:\n\n• Focus on the web of interrelationships in our environment—on the physical, biological, cultural, political, and historical aspects of ecological systems.<br>\n• Create works that employ natural materials or engage with environmental forces such as wind, water, or sunlight.<br>\n• Reclaim, restore, and remediate damaged environments.<br>\n• Inform the public about ecological dynamics and the environmental problems we face.<br>\n• Revise ecological relationships, creatively proposing new possibilities for coexistence, sustainability, and healing.\n\nWithin environmental art, a crucial distinction can be made between environmental artists who do not consider the possible damage to the environment that their artwork may incur, and those whose intent is to cause no harm to nature. For example, despite its aesthetic merits, the American artist Robert Smithson’s celebrated sculpture \"Spiral Jetty\" (1969) inflicted permanent damage upon the landscape he worked with, using a bulldozer to scrape and cut the land, with the spiral itself impinging upon the lake. Similarly, criticism was raised against the European sculptor Christo when he temporarily wrapped the coastline at Little Bay, south of Sydney, Australia, in 1969. Conservationists' comments attracted international attention in environmental circles and led contemporary artists in the region to rethink the inclinations of land art and site-specific art.\n\nSustainable art is produced with consideration for the wider impact of the work and its reception in relationship to its environments (social, economic, biophysical, historical, and cultural). Some artists choose to minimize their potential impact, while other works involve restoring the immediate landscape to a natural state.\n\nBritish sculptor Richard Long has for several decades made temporary outdoor sculptural work by rearranging natural materials found on site, such as rocks, mud and branches, which will therefore have no lingering detrimental effect. Chris Drury instituted a work entitled \"Medicine Wheel\" which was the fruit and result of a daily meditative walk, once a day, for a calendar year. The deliverable of this work was a mandala of mosaicked found objects: nature art as process art. Crop artist Stan Herd shows similar connection with and respect for the land.\n\nLeading environmental artists such as the Dutch sculptor Herman de Vries, the Australian sculptor John Davis and the British sculptor Andy Goldsworthy similarly leave the landscape they have worked with unharmed; in some cases they have revegetated damaged land with appropriate indigenous flora in the process of making their work. In this way the work of art arises out of a sensitivity towards habitat. Perhaps the most celebrated instance of environmental art in the late 20th century was \"7000 Oaks\", an ecological action staged at Documenta during 1982 by Joseph Beuys, in which the artist and his assistants highlighted the condition of the local environment by planting 7000 oak trees throughout and around the city of Kassel.\n\nOther artists, like eco-feminist artist Aviva Rahmani reflect on our human engagement with the natural world, and create ecologically informed artworks that focus on transformation or reclamation. In the last two decades significant environmentally concerned work has been made by Rosalie Gascoigne, who fashioned her serene sculptures from rubbish and junk she found discarded in rural areas. Similarly, Marina DeBris uses trash from the beach to create trashion, educating people about beach and ocean trash. Patrice Stellest created big installations with junk, but also incorporated pertinent items collected around the world and solar energy mechanisms. John Wolseley hikes through remote regions, gathering visual and scientific data, then incorporates visual and other information into complex wall-scale works on paper. Environmental art or \"Green art\" by Washington, DC based glass sculptors Erwin Timmers and Alison Sigethy incorporates some of the least recycled building materials; structural glass. EcoArt writer and theoretician Linda Weintraub coined the term, \"cycle-logical\" to describe the correlation between recycling and psychology. The 21st century notion of artists' mindful engagement with their materials harkens back to paleolithic midden piles of discarded pottery and metals from ancient civilizations. Weintraub cites the work of MacArthur Fellow Sarah Sze who recycles, reuses, and refurbishes detritus from the waste stream into elegant sprawling installations. Her self-reflective work draws our attention to our own cluttered lives and connection to consumer culture. Brigitte Hitschler's \"Energy field\" drew power for 400 red diodes from the to-be-reclaimed potash slag heap upon which they were installed, using art and science to reveal hidden material culture. Ecological artist and activist, Beverly Naidus, creates installations that address environmental crises, nuclear legacy issues, and creates works on paper that envision transformation. Her community-based permaculture project, \"Eden Reframed\" remediates degraded soil using phytoremediation and mushrooms resulting in a public place to grow and harvest medicinal plants and edible plants. Naidus is an educator having taught at the University of Washington, Tacoma for over ten years, where she created the Interdisciplinary Studio \"Arts in Community\" curriculum merging art with ecology and socially engaged practices. Naidus's book, \"Arts for Change: Teaching Outside the Frame\" is a resource for teachers, activists and artists. Sculptor and installation artist Erika Wanenmacher was inspired by Tony Price in her development of works addressing creativity, mythology, and New Mexico’s nuclear presence. Various artists, including Daniele Del Nero, have worked in different ways using living mold as an artistic element.\n\nRenewable energy sculpture is another recent development in environmental art. In response to the growing concern about global climate change, artists are designing explicit interventions at a functional level, merging aesthetical responses with the functional properties of energy generation or saving. Andrea Polli's \"Queensbridge Wind Power Project\" is an example of experimental architecture, incorporating wind turbines into a bridge's structure to recreate aspects of the original design as well as lighting the bridge and neighbouring areas. Ralf Sander's public sculpture, the World Saving Machine, used solar energy to create snow and ice outside the Seoul Museum of Art in the hot Korean summer. Practitioners of this emerging area often work according to ecologically informed ethical and practical codes that conform to Ecodesign criteria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1851103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1851103", "title": "Freedman–Diaconis rule", "text": "Freedman–Diaconis rule\n\nIn statistics, the Freedman–Diaconis rule can be used to select the width of the bins to be used in a histogram. It is named after David A. Freedman and Persi Diaconis. \n\nFor a set of empirical measurements sampled from some probability distribution, the Freedman-Diaconis rule is designed to minimize the difference between the area under the empirical probability distribution and the area under the theoretical probability distribution.\n\nThe general equation for the rule is:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the interquartile range of the data and formula_3 is the number of observations in the sample formula_4\n\nAnother approach is to use \"Sturges' rule\": use a bin so large that there are about formula_5 non-empty bins (Scott, 2009). This works well for \"n\" under 200, but was found to be inaccurate for large \"n\". \nFor a discussion and an alternative approach, see Birgé and Rozenholc.\n"}
{"id": "9173009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173009", "title": "Ger Brennan", "text": "Ger Brennan\n\nGer Brennan is an Irish Gaelic footballer who plays for St Vincents and formerly played for Dublin.\n\nFrom a family of nine, he attended Belvedere College. At Belvedere he played Rugby, soccer, hurling and Gaelic Football.\n\nGraduating from Maynooth College with undergraduate and master's degrees, he qualified as a school teacher and taught Irish and religion at St. Kevin's College, Ballygall Road, in Dublin 11. In November 2015 he was appointed Gaelic Games Executive at University College Dublin.\n\nBrennan won his first Dublin Senior Football Championship medal with St Vincents in 2007 in the final against St Brigids at Parnell Park. He then went on to win the Leinster Senior Club Football Championship final against Tyrrellspass of Westmeath. Brennan was chosen as the Leinster club player of the year for his performances in the Leinster club championship with St Vincents.\n\nBrennan won the 2008 All-Ireland Senior Club Football Championship with St Vincents in a hard fought game. He won the Dublin Senior Football Championship for St. Vincents, as captain, in 2013.\n\nBrennan madee his national league debut for Dublin against Tyrone on 3 February 2007. He was a member of Dublin team that won the 2007 O'Byrne Cup, playing against Laois at O'Connor Park in Offaly. The game finished on a scoreline of 1-18 to 2-13. He finished the tournament with a total of 0-04.\n\nIn 2008, he retired from Dublin's football panel, citing burnout and fatigue as his reasons. However, on July 30, 2008, he was named in Dublin's panel for the quarter-final and accepted a return. He was part of the victorious Dublin squad that won the 2011 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship. He won an All-Ireland with Dublin for a second time in 2013, scoring two points in the final against Mayo.\n\nIn October 2015, Brennan announced his retirement from Inter County football but will continue to play club football.\n\nBrennan is a Catholic who has spoken about his faith in God. He has stated that while non-denominational schools may teach subjects such as science, Catholic schools \"enable young students to have the skills to pray\".\n\nBrennan was praised for his \"nonchalant delivery\" of thanks to the \"girlfriends and boyfriends of the players\" after St Vincent's defeated Castlebar Mitchels in the 2014 All-Ireland Club Championship Final at Croke Park (a speech delivered in front of a live television audience). However just over a year later, Brennan wrote an op-ed for the \"Irish Independent\" arguing against the legalisation of same-sex marriage in that year's Marriage Equality referendum, which was ultimately carried in a 62% to 38% popular vote. His stance was criticised by others, including fellow GAA star Conor Cusack.\n"}
{"id": "52340390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52340390", "title": "Gold Key: Alliance", "text": "Gold Key: Alliance\n\nGold Key: Alliance is a comic book limited series published by Dynamite Entertainment, which ran from April 6 to August 17, 2016. The series featured five Gold Key Comics characters: Magnus, Mighty Samson, Solar, Doctor Spektor and Turok.\n\nIn a present day similar to the real world, there are alternate counterparts of four Gold Key original characters who co-exist but live different lives: Magnus is a secret agent monitoring the rise of military artificial intelligence and robotics around the globe, Turok is a reality television star and tribal park ranger in charge of some rare unique specimens, Samson is a homeless man ranting at unseen monsters on the streets of Manhattan, and Solar is a young female doctor on a mission of mercy in a impoverished part of Africa. But one day, each of them is hunted by an alternate counterpart of Doctor Spektor, who warns them about the upcoming destruction of the multiverse.\n\n"}
{"id": "794869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794869", "title": "Half-Life: Blue Shift", "text": "Half-Life: Blue Shift\n\nHalf-Life: Blue Shift is an expansion pack for Valve Software's science fiction first-person shooter video game \"Half-Life\". The game was developed by Gearbox Software with Valve Corporation and published by Sierra On-Line on June 12, 2001. \"Blue Shift\" is the second expansion for \"Half-Life\", originally intended as part of a Dreamcast version of the original game. Although the Dreamcast port was later cancelled, the PC version continued development and was released as a standalone product. The game was released on Steam on August 24, 2005.\n\nAs with Gearbox's previous expansion pack \"\", \"Blue Shift\" returns to the setting and events of the original game, but portrays the story through the eyes of another person. The protagonist in \"Blue Shift\" is a security guard, Barney Calhoun, employed by the Black Mesa Research Facility. After a scientific mishap causes Black Mesa to be invaded by aliens, Calhoun must fight his way to safety. The game received mostly positive reception. Many reviewers were critical of the short length of the game and the lack of new content, although the inclusion of a High Definition pack that upgraded the models and textures in both \"Blue Shift\" and the preceding \"Half-Life\" games was praised.\n\nAs an expansion pack for \"Half-Life\", \"Blue Shift\" is a first-person shooter. The overall gameplay of \"Blue Shift\" does not significantly differ from that of \"Half-Life\": players are required to navigate through the game's levels, fight hostile non-player characters and solve a variety of puzzles to advance. The game continues \"Half-Life\"s methods of an unbroken narrative. The player sees everything through the first person perspective of the protagonist and remains in control of the player character for almost all of the game. Story events are conveyed through the use of scripted sequences rather than cut scenes. Progress through the game's world is continuous; although the game is divided up into chapters, the only significant pauses are when the game needs to load the next part of an environment.\n\nThe player battles through the game alone, but is occasionally assisted by friendly non-player characters. Security guards and scientists will occasionally help the player in reaching new areas and convey relevant plot information. \"Blue Shift\" also includes a substantial section dedicated to keeping a major character in the story safe from enemy characters, and escorting him to a specific location. A selection of enemies from \"Half-Life\" populate the game, including alien creatures such as headcrabs and Vortigaunts. The player also encounters human opponents in the form of a detachment of US Marines who have been sent to eliminate the alien threat and silence any witnesses. \"Blue Shift\" does not elaborate on the storyline in \"\", the preceding expansion pack, and no enemy characters or weapons introduced in it appear in the game. The player is instead given access to a limited selection of \"Half-Life\"s original weaponry.\n\n\"Blue Shift\" is set in the same location and time frame as that of \"Half-Life\", taking place at a remote New Mexico laboratory called the Black Mesa Research Facility. In \"Half-Life\", the player takes on the role of Gordon Freeman, a scientist involved in an accident that opens an inter-dimensional portal to the borderworld of Xen, allowing the alien creatures of Xen to attack the facility. The player guides Freeman in an attempt to escape the facility and close the portal, ultimately traveling to Xen to do so. As in \"Opposing Force\", \"Blue Shift\" shows the events of \"Half-Life\" from the perspective of a different protagonist. The player assumes the role of Barney Calhoun, a security guard working near the labs where the accident takes place. Calhoun is responsible for the preservation of equipment and materials and the welfare of research personnel, and after the accident turns Black Mesa into a warzone, he must work with Dr. Rosenberg, a high-ranking scientist involved in the experiment, to evacuate the facility.\n\n\"Blue Shift\" begins in a similar manner to \"Half-Life\", as Barney Calhoun rides a train through the Black Mesa facility to reach his place of work. After reporting for duty, Calhoun is instructed to assist in maintenance on a malfunctioning elevator. As Calhoun finishes repairs, however, Freeman's experiment takes place and results in a \"resonance cascade\", causing massive damage to the facility and teleporting alien creatures into the base. The elevator is badly damaged and fails, sending Calhoun plummeting into the depths of Black Mesa.\n\nCalhoun regains consciousness at the bottom of the shaft and begins to fight his way to the surface to escape. Emerging near Black Mesa's classification yards, Calhoun learns that Dr. Rosenberg and his colleagues plan to escape the facility using teleportation technology. After freeing Rosenberg from the captivity of the US Marines detachment sent to silence the facility, Calhoun escorts him to a decommissioned prototype teleportation laboratory, where several Black Mesa employees have already gathered. Rosenberg then teleports Calhoun to the Xen border world to calibrate research equipment needed to pinpoint a teleport destination outside of Black Mesa. Upon his return, Rosenberg informs Calhoun that the teleporter's battery power has been exhausted, and contact has been lost with a team sent to acquire a new power cell.\n\nCalhoun travels to the power generators on a lower level to find a fresh power cell while firefights rage between the Marines and the forces of Xen. After returning with a new power cell, Calhoun assists Rosenberg in evacuating the few surviving personnel through the teleporter. Calhoun is the last to enter the portal and as he does so, Marines breach the laboratory and fire on him, causing the teleporter to explode. As a result of the teleporter's destruction, Calhoun enters a \"harmonic reflux\", causing him to be rapidly teleported to a variety of locations in Xen and Black Mesa. At one location, he witnesses Freeman's capture by Marines midway through \"Half-Life\", before eventually stabilizing at the intended teleport location with Rosenberg at the outskirts of Black Mesa, where they then escape the facility in a company SUV.\n\nA second \"Half-Life\" expansion pack, revolving around a security guard in the facility, was first announced in the second quarter of 2000 as part of an upcoming Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\", under the working title \"Half-Life: Guard Duty\". Although the main Dreamcast port was to be developed by Captivation Digital Laboratories, the new expansion was to be developed by Gearbox Software, the same studio who developed \"\". Publisher Sierra Entertainment later officially announced the expansion on August 30, 2000, revealing the name as \"Blue Shift\". As with \"Opposing Force\", the name \"Blue Shift\" has a double meaning, referring to both the blue shift light phenomenon, and the name of the shift that the protagonist is assigned to. The Dreamcast version of the game was set to include higher detail models and textures that were double the polygon count of Valve Software's original \"Half-Life\" models. At the European Computer Trade Show in September 2000, information about \"Blue Shift\"s story and development direction was revealed, along with a release date of November 1, 2000, for the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\". The game was delayed by Sierra to ensure the \"high expectations of consumers\" were met, anticipating release by the end of the year. Further media, gameplay and story information was released in the following weeks and months. Despite this, the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\" still did not emerge, and speculation in May 2001 suggested the game would be cancelled. On June 16, 2001, Sierra terminated development on the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\", citing \"changing market conditions\" in a press release. GamePro magazine, however, received and published a 2-page review of the game. A late stage build of the Dreamcast version was eventually leaked to the Internet, featuring essentially complete versions of both \"Half-Life\" and \"Blue Shift\".\n\nAlthough the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\" was cancelled, \"Blue Shift\" persevered. Prior to the cancellation of the Dreamcast version, Sierra announced on March 29, 2001, that \"Blue Shift\" would be released for PC as well. The game would be released as a standalone expansion pack, a product that does not require the original \"Half-Life\" to run. The new models developed for the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\" would also be included in the PC version as the \"Half-Life\" High Definition pack. In addition, Gearbox announced that the High Definition pack would not be exclusive for \"Blue Shift\", but could be applied to both \"Half-Life\" and \"Opposing Force\" as well. At the Electronic Entertainment Expo in 2001, Gearbox announced that development of \"Blue Shift\" had been completed, and exhibited a playable version of the end product. The game was released on June 12, 2001.\n\n\"Blue Shift\" and the High Definition pack were initially absent from the launch of Valve's content delivery system Steam in September 2003, despite the presence of both \"Half-Life\" and \"Opposing Force\" on the system. The game was released on Steam on August 29, 2005 along with the High Definition Pack. \"Blue Shift\" was also published as part of Sierra's \"Half-Life: Generation\" compilation in 2002, and as part of Valve Software and Electronic Arts' \"Half Life 1: Anthology\" on September 26, 2005.\n\n\"Blue Shift\" received a mixed reaction from critics, holding overall scores of 67.40% and 71/100 on the review aggregator sites GameRankings and Metacritic, respectively. The game has sold around 800,000 copies at retail (this figure does not include later sales on Steam). In a review for IGN, critic Tal Blevins noted that \"Blue Shift\"s gameplay \"is pretty much what we've come to expect out of \"Half-Life\"\" by blending action and puzzle solving, stating that the latter \"were all logical and well done, although some of the jumping puzzles were frustrating\". Though IGN praised the game for maintaining the \"epic\" feel of the original, Blevins was critical of the relatively short length of the game. GameSpot reviewer Greg Kasavin agreed with many of IGN's criticisms, stating that \"it's not that the game is easy so much that it's extremely short\" and that \"Blue Shift\" \"doesn't amount to much on its own terms\". In addition, Kasavin described the graphical enhancements brought about by the High Definition pack as \"helpful\", but noted that \"they still don't make \"Half-Life\" look like a new game—nor are many of the changes themselves very noticeable\".\n\nOther reviews echoed complaints about the similarity of \"Blue Shift\" to previous games. GameSpy's reviewer Jamie Madigan stated that \"what really pulls the game down is the 'more of the same' factor\". Although writing that the game \"feels like just a few more levels for the original game\", he noted that this is what \"Blue Shift\" was designed to be, given its origins as an add-on for a Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\". Madigan described the single-player campaign as \"decent\" and commented that the High Definition pack made the game \"worthy of consideration\". Eurogamer echoed criticism on the game's length; reviewer Tom Bradwell commented that \"although I'm hard pressed to criticize what you get, the complete absence of everything we've learnt from the likes of \"Counter-Strike\" and everything since is frankly bizarre\". Bradwell did, however, criticize the game's artificial intelligence and the occasional bug that caused a player to get stuck on a wall. \"PC Zone\"s Mark Hill was more lenient in his comments, praising the game's artificial intelligence as \"intelligent as you could hope an AI enemy to be\". In addition, Hill praised the game for showing more activity in the base, noting that \"a whole world goes on around you, with people eating at a cantina and scientists doing their laundry. The complex is more alive than ever before\". Hill also praised the focus \"on a greater interaction with scientists as proper people rather than the two or three models that were cloned throughout the facility who kept repeating the same phrases\", describing this as \"Blue Shift\"s \"greatest achievement\". \"PC Zone\"s review closed by commenting that \"as a Dreamcast extra it works perfectly, but as a standalone PC title there's not nearly enough to it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1744298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744298", "title": "Hegira (novel)", "text": "Hegira (novel)\n\nHegira is a 1979 science fiction novel by American writer Greg Bear. It deals with themes including cyclic time, artificial intelligence, artificial life, and artificial structures of planetary scale.\n\nIn the novel, \"young\" humans (recreations of the medieval originals) are transported through the Big Collapse, at the end of time, to seed the next cycle of the universe. They are transported to Hegira, an artificial environment of the scale of the planet Jupiter, which has habitats for several species on its surface. The habitats are protected and uncoupled from the universe's entropy by means of force fields projected by giant obelisks. In the human realm, these are inscribed with the recorded history of humankind, sorted chronologically from the bottom up, including the science that went with it. People try to understand and copy what they can read on the obelisks, using balloons in some places to reach higher points on the obelisks.\n\nA legend tells the protagonist that his beloved (frozen in stasis) will awaken if he goes on quest to the rim walls of the habitat, and he does so. On the way, he lands on an island with a good view of an obelisk (at least high) which is just tumbling down in the distance. Its fall causes a tsunami and devastates a continent. After the devastation, the inscriptions at the top of the fallen obelisk about human history are revealed. The hero's quest to the rim succeeds. He makes contact with an artificial intelligence guardian of Hegira, who tells him the story and advises him to go and populate the new universe since he has become part of the last one.\n"}
{"id": "31625074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31625074", "title": "Huayu Enrichment Scholarship", "text": "Huayu Enrichment Scholarship\n\nThe MOFA (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Huayu Enrichment Scholarship (HES), is a competitively awarded international scholarship for studying the Mandarin language in Taiwan. The award is not limited to countries with diplomatic ties with Taiwan.\n\nHuayu Scholars may study at any university or college-affiliated Mandarin training center. The scholarship may be awarded for a maximum of one year; although applications for shorter study periods of three, six and nine months are accepted.\n\nScholars receive a monthly maintenance stipend of NT$25,000 to cover accommodation and living expenses.\n\nThe program also aims to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312103", "title": "Hypocaust", "text": "Hypocaust\n\nA hypocaust (Latin \"hypocaustum\") is a system of central heating in a building that produces and circulates hot air below the floor of a room, and may also warm the walls with a series of pipes through which the hot air passes. This air can warm the upper floors as well. The word derives from the Ancient Greek \"hypo\" meaning \"under\" and \"caust-\", meaning \"burnt\" (as in \"caustic\"). The earliest reference to such a system suggests that the temple of Ephesus in 350 BC was heated in this manner, although Vitruvius attributes its invention to Sergius Orata in c.80 BC. Its invention improved the hygiene and living conditions of citizens, and was a forerunner of modern central heating.\n\nHypocausts were used for heating hot baths and other public buildings in Ancient Rome, but their use in homes was limited due to their high cost. The ruins of Roman hypocausts have been found throughout Europe (for example in Italy, England, Spain, France, Switzerland and Germany) and in Africa as well.\n\nThe ceiling of the hypocaust was raised above the ground by pillars, called pilae stacks, supporting a layer of tiles, followed by a layer of concrete, then the floor tiles of the rooms above. Hot air and smoke from the furnace would circulate through this enclosed area and then up through clay or tile flues in the walls of the rooms above to outlets in the roof, thereby heating the floors and walls of the rooms above. These tile flues were referred to as \"caliducts\". \n\nRooms intended to be the warmest were located nearest to the furnace below, the heat output of which was regulated by adjusting the amount of wood fed to the fire. It was expensive and labour-intensive to run a hypocaust, as it required constant attention to the fire and a lot of fuel, so it was a feature usually encountered only in large villas and public baths.\n\nVitruvius describes their construction and operation in his work \"De architectura\" in about 15 BC, including details about how fuel could be conserved by building the hot room (caldarium) for men next to that for women, with both adjacent to the tepidarium, so as to run the public baths efficiently. He also describes a device for adjusting the heat by a bronze ventilator in the domed ceiling.\n\nRemains of many Roman hypocausts have survived throughout Europe, western Asia, and northern Africa.\n\nExcavations at Mohenjo-daro in what is now Pakistan have unearthed what is believed to be a hypocaust lined with bitumen-coated bricks. If it fulfilled a similar role, the structure would pre-date the earliest Roman hypocaust by as much as 2000 years.\n\nIn 1984–1985, in the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, excavations in the ancient settlement of Dzalisi uncovered a large castle complex, featuring a well-preserved hypocaust built between 200–400 BC.\n\nDating back to 1000 BC, Korean houses have traditionally used \"ondol\" to provide floor heating on similar principles as the hypocaust, drawing smoke from a wood fire typically used for cooking. Ondol heating was common in Korean homes until the 1960s, by which time dedicated ondol installations were typically used to warm the main room of the house, burning a variety of fuels such as coal and biomass.\n\nOn a smaller scale, in Northern China the Kang bed-stove has a long history.\n\nWith the decline of the Roman Empire, the hypocaust fell into disuse, especially in the western provinces. In Britain, from c.400 until c.1900, it was thought that central heating did not exist, and hot baths were rare. However, an evolution of the hypocaust was used in some monasteries in calefactories, or warming rooms, which were heated via underground fires, as in the Roman hypocaust, but retained heat via granite stones. In Eastern Europe, the development of radiant ceramic or stone stoves were also used. In the Iberian Peninsula, the Roman system was adopted for the heating of Hispano-Islamic (Al Andalus) baths (hammams). A derivation of hypocaust, the gloria, was in use in Castile until the arrival of modern heating. After the fuel (mainly wood) was reduced to ashes, the air intake was closed to keep hot air inside and to slow combustion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33596709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33596709", "title": "Individualistic culture", "text": "Individualistic culture\n\nIndividualistic culture is a society which is characterized by individualism, which is the prioritization or emphasis, of the individual over the entire group. Individualistic cultures are oriented around the self, being independent instead of identifying with a group mentality. They see each other as only loosely linked, and value personal goals over group interests. Individualistic cultures tend to have a more diverse population and are characterized with emphasis on personal achievements, and a rational assessment of both the beneficial and detrimental aspects of relationships with others. Individualistic cultures have such unique aspects of communication as being a low power-distance culture and having a low-context communication style. Highly individualistic cultures include the U.S., Australia, Great Britain, Canada, the Netherlands, and New Zealand.\n\nPower distance is defined to be the degree to which unequal distribution of power is accepted in a culture. Low power distance cultures challenge authority, encourage a reduction of power differences between management and employees, and encourage the use of power legitimately. Low power distance is more likely to occur in an individualistic culture, because in a collectivist culture, people protect the well being of the group and established order so they would be less likely to challenge authority or people in power. Even though individualistic cultures are more likely to be low power distance, these cultures don't expect to completely eliminate power difference. People within this low power distance culture, however, are more likely to respond to such imbalances in power with more negative emotional responses than in the alternative, high power distance cultures. Low power distance cultures include Austria, Israel, Denmark, New Zealand, the Republic of Ireland, and Sweden. The U.S. ranks 38th on the scale.\n\nIndividualistic cultures are also more likely to have a low-context communication style. This means that communication is precise, direct, and specific. Unlike in high-context communication, reading between the lines is not necessary in low-context communication. This explicit communication is used in order to prevent any form of misunderstanding between cultures. The ability to articulate the thoughts and opinions one holds as well as to express them eloquently are encouraged, as is persuasive speaking. Low-context communication is all content and no relationship dimension.\n\nIndividualistic cultures tend to prioritize the individual person over the group, and this can be seen in how the display rules vary from a collectivist culture compared to an individualistic culture. Display rules are the rules that exist in different cultures that determine how emotion should be displayed publicly. In an individualistic culture, self-expression is highly valued, making the display rules less strict and allowing people to display intense emotion such as: happiness, anger, love, etc. While in a collectivist culture, moderation and self-control is highly valued for the well being of the group, and collectivist cultures therefore tend to restrain from showing emotion in public.\n\nConflict strategies are methods used to resolve different problems. There are different approaches to resolving conflict, and depending the culture a person is brought up in, the more likely it is for them to use a certain approach. Since individualistic culture sets greater value to personal achievement, contrary to collectivist cultures who value harmony, it is more likely for a person from an individualistic culture to use competition as their method of resolving conflict. When using competition as an approach to resolving conflict, a person is more confrontational and seeks to achieve his or her own goals with no regard of the goals of others. Using this approach a person seeks domination, which means to get others to do what the person wants instead of what they initially wanted. On the contrary, a collectivist culture would more likely use a less confrontational approach such as accommodation to end the conflict with compromise so that each party is benefited.\n\n"}
{"id": "489139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489139", "title": "Interactive communication", "text": "Interactive communication\n\nInteractive communication is an exchange of ideas where both participants, whether human, machine or art form, are active and can have an effect on one another. It is a dynamic, two-way flow of information. \n\nMany forms of communication previously thought one-way, like books and television, have become interactive with the rise of computers, the Internet, and digital and mobile devices. These developing collaborative technologies, or new media, have rapidly increased the opportunities for interactive communication across mediums, disciplines, cultures, social classes, locations, and even time. \n\nInteractive communication is a modern term that encompasses these evolving forms of conversation. It is a primary characteristic of the present Information Age. New experiments in interaction design are evolving on a daily basis. \n\nInteractive communication forms include basic dialogue and nonverbal communication, game-books, interactive fiction and storytelling, hypertext, interactive television and movies, photo and video manipulation, video sharing, video games, social media, user-generated content, interactive marketing and public relations, augmented reality, ambient intelligence, and virtual reality. \n\nInteractivity is rooted in basic communication, the development of rhetoric, and the evolution of social interface. Gesture, touch and body language were the earliest forms of communication. The time line of spoken and written language’s emergence is still under debate. Rhetoric is the effective use of language.\n\nOnce human cognition and thought evolved, varieties of language and communication increased exponentially. Braille and sign language are forms of interface, as are the arts of music, cooking, photography and fashion. Politics, trade, international relations, immigration and war are examples of group interaction. \n\nIndustrial design, the aesthetics and engineering of human and machine interface, arrived with the Industrial Revolution. Examples of perfected usability include the chopstick, the corkscrew and the paper clip. The automobile dashboard, the iconic Fender Stratocaster electrical guitar, and popular telephones from the Western Electric Model 302 rotary dial to the Apple iPhone multi-touch screen are examples of effective control panels. \n\nInterest in interactive communication has grown with the increase in human-computer interaction. Hardware peripherals include keyboards, mice, game controllers and webcams. Graphical user interface examples include the desktop metaphor, software programs like Microsoft Office and Adobe Photoshop, websites and web browsers, search engines, and the increasing number of smartphone mobile applications. \n\nAn important consideration in the development of any modern user interface is its interactivity.\n\n"}
{"id": "30207419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30207419", "title": "International Research Center for Traditional Polyphony", "text": "International Research Center for Traditional Polyphony\n\nThe International Research Center for Traditional Polyphony (IRCTP or Polyphonic Center) is an academic organization focused on the study of the phenomenon of traditional vocal polyphony. It is a part of Tbilisi Vano Sarajishvili State Conservatory. Establishment of IRCTP was announced during the First International Symposium of Traditional Polyphony in 2002, and it was logistically established by the order of the Rector of Tbilisi State Conservatory in February 2003. Its director is Rusudan Tsurtsumia. The head of its International Bureau is Joseph Jordania. Central activity of the Polyphonic Center is organizing biannual symposia, with subsequent publication of the presented papers, fostering dissemination of the knowledge on human musical cultures and establishing close professional contacts between ethnomusicologists interested in study of the phenomenon of traditional choral singing.\n\nGeorgia has been known among ethnomusicologists as the country with extremely rich traditions of vocal polyphony since the 1920s. Study of vocal polyphony has been one of the central issues for Georgian ethnomusicology from the second half of the 19th century. In 1972 Union of Composers of Soviet Union organized the conference dedicated to traditional polyphony in Georgia (this was the very first conference in the world, fully dedicated to traditional polyphony). The ongoing series of biannual conferences dedicated to the problems of traditional polyphony, with the wide participation of the experts from Soviet Union, Europe and America, were organized in 1984, 1986 and 1988. The following conference (scheduled in 1990) was initially postponed and later canceled due to the political instability in post-soviet Georgia. The series of biannual conferences on traditional polyphony were revived in 1998 and 2000, leading to the organizing of the First International Symposium on Traditional Polyphony in 2002. The first symposium was preceded by proclamation of Georgian traditional polyphony among the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO in 2001. Representative of UNESCO attended the Symposium, providing support of UNESCO. The Polyphonic Centre has been supported during the recent years by the Presidents of Georgia, Eduard Shevardnadze and Mikhail Saakashvili. For several years the Polyphonic Centre was also supported by the Japanese government.\nThere has been a steady increase in interest towards the study of traditional polyphony (choral singing) during the recent years. In the 1970s there were two initial conferences organized on this subject, in the 1980s four conference, in the 1990s three conferences, and during the first decade of the 21st century nine conferences had been organized in several countries (apart from Georgia, in Taiwan in 2002, in Austria in 2005 and 2008, in Portugal in 2007). A centre for the study of European traditional polyphony was established at Vienna University in 2005, and the study group on multipart music of ICTM was established in 2009 and organized a conference in Sardinia, Italy in 2010. The earliest international organization to dedicate its activity entirely to study of traditional choral singing was Polifonies Vivante, organized in France during the 1991-1994 by Simha Arom.\n\nInternational symposia on the problems of traditional polyphony had been organized biannually from 2002. The last one was held on September 26 - October 1, 2016. All of them had been organized in late September - early October, at the Tbilisi State Conservatory. The geography of representation of scholars from different countries of the world had been steadily increasing. A group of international expert-ethnomusicologists, including Simha Arom from France, Dieter Christensen from the United States, Franz Fodermayr from Austria, Polo Vallejo from Spain, had been participating in virtually every symposia, together with ethnomusicologists from different countries (including experts from China, Japan, Australia, Canada, eastern and western Europe, Turkey, Egypt. The general program of the symposia is stable and contains twelve themes, covering wide range of research topics, including problems of vocal and instrumental polyphony, folk and church music, regional styles, elements of musical language, social and gender aspects, history, links with popular musical styles. Participating scholars are traditionally provided by the hosts with hotel accommodation, internal transport and food during the Symposium. In 2010 for the first time a special theme was added (\"vocal polyphony is Asia\"). 2012 symposium (September 24–29) had the special theme \"comparative research in traditional polyphony\", 2014 Symposium main theme was \"Polyphony in Minority Music\" (September 22–26, 2014), and 2016 symposium was dedicated to the geographic dynamics of traditional polyphony (September 26 - October 1, 2016). Next symposium is planning to a later date: October 29 - November 3, 2018.\n\nThe most important publication of the IRCTP is the proceedings of the biannual symposia. They are usually prepared under the editorship of Rusudan Tsurtsumia and Joseph Jordania. All the papers of the previous symposia are freely available on the website of the IRCTP on both Georgian and English languages \n\nBulletins are another periodic publication of the IRCTP Centre also published several collections of the articles, including Seventeen Arguments on Georgian Polyphony and numerous audio and video materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24353804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24353804", "title": "Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths", "text": "Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths\n\nJustice League: Crisis on Two Earths is an original direct-to-video animated superhero film released on February 23, 2010. It is based on the abandoned direct-to-video feature \"Justice League: Worlds Collide\", which was intended as a bridge between the then-concluding \"Justice League\" animated television series and its then forthcoming sequel series \"Justice League Unlimited\". \"Crisis on Two Earths\" was reworked from the \"Worlds Collide\" script to remove references to the TV series' continuity. The film is directed by Lauren Montgomery & Sam Liu and written by Dwayne McDuffie.\n\nThe premise of \"Crisis on Two Earths\" is borrowed from the 1964 Gardner Fox-scripted \"Justice League of America\" #29–30 entitled \"Crisis on Earth-Three!\" and the 2000 Grant Morrison \"\" graphic novel, with a heroic Lex Luthor from an alternate universe coming to the Justice League's universe for help against the Crime Syndicate. The film is the seventh of the DC Universe Animated Original Movies released by Warner Premiere and Warner Bros. Animation. The two-disc special edition also includes an animated short .\n\nOn August 11, 2015, Warner Home Video re-released the film in a combo pack which includes a DVD and Blu-Ray copy, a digital copy, and the graphic novel on which it was based.\n\nIn an alternate universe where the roles of the heroes and villains are reversed from their counterparts in the mainstream DC Universe, heroic analogues of Lex Luthor and Joker (called the Jester) are stealing a device called the \"Quantum Trigger\" from the headquarters of the Crime Syndicate. When an alarm is tripped, the Jester sacrifices himself to allow Luthor to escape and kills J'edd J'arkus and Angelique (alternate versions of Martian Manhunter and Hawkgirl respectively) with a bomb. Luthor is nearly captured by the remaining Syndicate members (Ultraman, Superwoman, Power Ring, Johnny Quick and Owlman) but escapes to the Earth of the heroic Justice League by activating a dimensional travel device.\n\nLuthor locates a police station, but is mistaken for the evil Luthor and ends up strip-searched. The Justice League is summoned and Superman's x-ray vision confirms Luthor's reversed organs indicate that he is from a parallel Earth and that the evil Luthor is still incarcerated at Stryker's Island. The Justice League take the alternate Luthor to the Watchtower, where they learn of the Syndicate threat. As the Justice League debates the matter, Luthor hides the Quantum Trigger on the satellite. With the exception of Batman, the rest of the Justice League (Superman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, Flash and Martian Manhunter) travel to Luthor's Earth.\n\nArriving at the parallel Justice League's base, the heroes attack Syndicate targets. After a successful series of raids in which they capture Ultraman, the League confront United States President Slade Wilson, who releases Ultraman and explains that acceding to the Syndicate's demands saves millions of lives. His daughter, Rose, however, regards him as a coward. Martian Manhunter inadvertently reads her mind and explains that as a military man her father actually holds life more dear than others. Martian Manhunter later foils an assassination attempt on Rose, and the pair fall in love.\n\nOwlman has developed a weapon, the Quantum Eigenstate Device or Q.E.D., which the Syndicate intend to use as the equalizer to the threat of a nuclear reprisal. When pressed by Superwoman, Owlman reveals that he's secretly planning to overthrow Ultraman and take control of the Crime Syndicate. He also admits the weapon can destroy entire worlds. Believing there are many parallel Earths, and that each one develops from the choices that each person makes, Owlman becomes obsessed with the idea that nothing he does can possibly matter, as there will always be parallel worlds where he explored another option. As a result, he searches for Earth-Prime, the very first Earth from which all other universes originated, intending to use the Q.E.D. to destroy it and spark a chain reaction that will erase the entire multiverse, as it is the only action that would not result in the creation of another universe. Superwoman agrees to help him, as it would give her the power to kill everyone who's ever lived. Owlman sends Superwoman with three of her lieutenants to the League's dimension, and on the Watchtower they battle Batman, Aquaman, Black Canary, Black Lightning, Firestorm, and Red Tornado. Superwoman and one of her lieutenants escape with the Quantum Trigger, but are followed by Batman.\n\nBatman defeats Superwoman and summons the League. Johnny, hopeful to reinstate fear in the Syndicate, decides to come down to commit big crimes. Power Ring rejects this because Scarlet Archer had been arrested by J'onn. J'onn and Rose bond, and Rose decides to learn the location of the Syndicate base to allow the Justice League to confront them. The League arrive at the Crime Syndicate's moon-base with the captive Superwoman, and eventually battle the Syndicate. Owlman fights off Batman and takes the Q.E.D. bomb to Earth-Prime, finding it to be uninhabited and lifeless, having suffered an unknown cataclysm that caused it to leave solar orbit. Luthor speculates that a speedster might be able to vibrate and match the temporal vibration of the teleported Q.E.D. device and open a portal. Flash volunteers but Batman states that he isn't fast enough, only Johnny Quick is. Johnny agrees and opens a portal.\n\nBatman pursues Owlman to Earth-Prime and engages in a brutal battle with his doppelganger. Batman manages to teleport Owlman and the Q.E.D. device to another uninhabited Earth, and triggers the Q.E.D. Seeing what is about to happen, Owlman does not even attempt to defuse the bomb, simply saying \"It doesn't matter\" after realizing that an alternate Owlman in the multiverse would do the opposite action regardless of his choice. The bomb destroys the alternate Earth, killing Owlman in the process. Batman returns to the Syndicate's Earth, where the strain of acting as a vibratory conduit has aged Johnny Quick to near death. Before dying, Johnny correctly deduces Batman lied about Flash not being fast enough and knew what would happen. Despite this, he shows no ill will toward Batman, dying with a smile. Martian Manhunter returns, accompanied by President Wilson and the U.S. Marines, and together they arrest Ultraman, Superwoman, and Power Ring.\n\nWilson thanks the heroes for helping save their world and tells them he had ordered the Marines to support the local police forces and resume on arresting the remaining members of the Syndicate. Although Rose asks Martian Manhunter to remain with her, the group return to their dimension. Batman and Superman later discuss a membership drive with the five heroes summoned previously greeting the Justice League.\n\n\nIn 2004, Bruce Timm revealed that a DCAU direct-to-video \"Justice League\" feature was in development to connect \"Justice League\" and \"Justice League Unlimited\". The film was titled as \"Justice League: Worlds Collide\". One of the objectives of the film was to explain how Wonder Woman acquired her Invisible-Jet. However, the project was finally scrapped by Warner Bros. In 2008, however, Timm stated that \"Justice League: Worlds Collide\" could be released someday in the future.\n\nFinally, \"Worlds Collide\" was rewritten by the late Dwayne McDuffie for DC Universe Animated Original Movies as \"Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths\", but removing all connections with the animated series. Also, John Stewart's Green Lantern was changed with Hal Jordan's Green Lantern.\n\n\"Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths\" received positive reviews. \"The World's Finest\" stated \"...the film ranks up there as one of Dwayne McDuffie's better works in the animated DC world and even though it’s reminiscent of stories we’ve seen in animation before, the brilliant work done by Moi, the directing by Sam Liu and Lauren Montgomery, and story make it more than worth watching again.\"\nThe good performance of the \"Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths\" release led Warner Premiere and DC Universe to release the sequel \"\". The film is loosely based on \"\", a 2000 comic book storyline by writer Mark Waid. The film's script was adapted by writer Dwayne McDuffie, and it is directed by Lauren Montgomery. The film is dedicated to the memory of McDuffie, who died from complications following open heart surgery shortly after writing the film. IGN gave the film a 7 out of 10, calling it \"An immensely enjoyable thrill ride, but also an occasionally frustrating and short adaptation\". It earned $6,543,809 from domestic home video sales.\n\n"}
{"id": "1680901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1680901", "title": "Lancôme", "text": "Lancôme\n\nLancôme is a French luxury perfumes and cosmetics house that distributes products internationally. Lancôme is part of the L'Oréal Luxury Products division, which is its parent company and offers skin care, fragrances, and makeup at higher-end prices.\n\nFounded in 1935 by Guillaume d'Ornano and his business partner Armand Petitjean in France, as originally a fragrance house. The name \"Lancôme\" was inspired by the forest of Lancosme that lies in the Indre valley in the heart of France in the region of La Brenne - the name was chosen by Guillaume's wife Elisabeth d'Ornano. The roses in the area inspired the company's symbol of the single golden rose.\n\nLancôme launched its first five fragrances in 1935 at the World's Fair in Brussels: \"Tendre Nuit\", \"Bocages\", \"Conquete\", \"Kypre\" and \"Tropiques\". Petitjean entered into the luxury skincare market, launching Nutrix, his first \"all-purpose repair cream\" in 1936, followed by make-up, cosmetics, and skincare products. Lancôme was acquired by L'oreal in 1964, and quickly became part of its luxury products division.\n\nThe company provides fragrances, skin care, and makeup. Their most famous products include their mascaras, namely \"Hypnôse\", their Visionnaire Range which contains a patented ingredient, \"LR 2412\", aimed to improve skin texture qualities, especially in pore reduction, fine lines and uneven skin tone. Lancome has recently released a new serum called \"Dreamtone\", which claims to improve on colour irregularities including sun spots and blemish marks. The serum is available in three colour integrals, fair, medium and dark to match individual skin tones.\n\nLancôme fragrances are made in association with perfumers: Alain Astori, Annick Menardo, Daniela Roche-Andrier, Christian Biecher, Jacques Cavallier, Calice Becker, Pauline Zanoni, Maurice Roucel, Thierry Wasser, Christine Nage, Armand Petitjean, Gerard Goupy, Olivier Cresp, Harry Fremont, Alberto Morillas, Dominique Ropion, Olivier Polge, Francis Kurkdjian, Robert Gonnon, Nathalie Lorson, Sophia Grojsman, and Alienor Massenet.\n\nSince 2014, the fragrance La Vie Est Belle is the best-selling fragrance in Lancôme historic market, France.\n\nDespite founder Armand Petijean's assertion that Lancôme never advertise, today Lancôme is one of the top advertisers in the luxury beauty arena. Its ads can be seen in numerous publications worldwide, from \"Harper's Bazaar\" to French \"Vogue\". Lancôme's ads have been shot by the leading photographers, including Peter Lindbergh, Mario Testino, Mario Sorrenti, Nick Knight, Steven Meisel, Brigitte Lacombe, Patrick Demarchelier & Dusan Reljin.\n\nIn 2012 Lancôme premiered a TV advertisement featuring 1930s cartoon icon Betty Boop. Supermodel Daria Werbowy and Betty talk candidly as Betty gives Daria advice about how to find a role in her \"first big film\". This advertisement has been uploaded to YouTube by Sephora and has achieved more than 100000 views in 2018.\n\nThe brand is represented by actresses, global supermodels, makeup artists and perfumers. Emerging fashion designers have collaborated with the brand, including design duo Proenza Schouler, who created a dress inspired by Lancôme's Hypnôse fragrance, and Alber Elbaz who designed the packaging for a trio of mascaras.\n\nIn 1978, at the age of eighteen, Carol Alt became the youngest model to be the face of Lancôme. Nancy Dutiel also modeled for Lancôme during this period. More recently, models Shalom Harlow, Marie Gillain and Raica Oliveira have also been spokesmodels for Lancôme.\n\nOne of Lancôme's longest-running partnerships was with actress Isabella Rossellini. Signed in 1982, Rossellini was the international face of Lancôme for 14 years.\n\nUkrainian-Canadian model Daria Werbowy joined the brand in 2005, and has been featured in Lancôme ads. Spanish actress and model Inés Sastre has represented Lancôme as a global spokesmodel since 1996, appearing in dozens of Lancôme advertisements over the years.\n\nIn September 2008, Dominican model Arlenis Sosa became the spokesmodel for the brand.\n\nin 2009, Isabella Rossellini's daughter Elettra Rossellini Wiedemann became the new face of Lancôme.\n\nIn 2010, ipsy founder Michelle Phan signed a deal with Lancôme and became their first Vietnamese spokesperson.\n\nOther renowned actresses have also worked with the brand, including Juliette Binoche, Uma Thurman, Drew Barrymore, Mena Suvari, Laura Morante, Kate Winslet, Anne Hathaway, Julia Roberts, Penélope Cruz, Emma Watson, and currently Lily Collins and Lupita Nyong'o. Clive Owen was the first male spokesperson for Lancôme's Men's skincare range and the fragrance Hypnôse Homme.\n\nDigital marketing is used to build relationships with customers and interact with them on time. Lancôme targets women in their 40s and younger women have become its' new target market.\n\nIn 2014, Lancôme launched a marketing campaign which combines a loyalty program called 'Lancôme Elite Rewards' via social media platforms. This program gives points as the reward to members for sharing on social media. Members can earn points by sharing products or connecting with the brand on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram and they will get discount while getting enough points. Through the combination of giving rewards and social media platforms in this campaign, it would attract more engagement and word of mouth publicity that resulted in the increased effectiveness of digital marketing in Lancôme. \n\nIn 2017, Lancôme has partnership with Airbnb and Publicis Worldwide’s luxury agency 133SH to release a new social media campaign for promoting the new Lancôme’s UV expert aqua gel. This social media campaign aimed to reach more young female consumers. They cooperated with three top bloggers, Lancôme sent them to Airbnb homes in three different locations with extreme sun conditions and invited 133SH to film videos for bloggers. The video showcased the effectiveness of the products by the experience of one blogger who explored the effects of the extreme conditions to her skin when applying the products. To spread the message in a further way and interact with the targeted market of 18-25 young Chinese consumers, the campaign was released across different social media and e-commerce platforms like WeChat.\n\nLancôme has collaborated with several makeup artists. Fred Farrugia created 13 colour collections during his tenure as artistic makeup director (1997–2004). His \"Pollen\" collection in 2000 introduced the industry's first lip gloss in a tube: Juicy Tubes.\n\nLancôme has several top makeup artists representing it, Aaron De Mey and Sandy Linter. Sandy is Lancôme's \"Beauty At Every Age Expert\", and Aaron is Lancôme's National Artistic Director for Makeup. Aaron De Mey is no longer the Artistic Director for Lancome. Lancôme UK has recently signed Alex Babsky to be the brand's UK Make Up Ambassador.\n\nLancôme Makeup announced in January 2015 that UK makeup artist Lisa Eldridge has been appointed as its Global Creative Director.\n\nOn 5 June 2016, Lancôme canceled a promotional concert by Hong Kong pro-democracy singer Denise Ho that was scheduled to be held on 19 June in Sheung Wan. The cancellation was due to a boycott campaign launched by the Communist Party-controlled \"Global Times\", which denigrated the Cantopop star for supposedly advocating Hong Kong and Tibet independence. Lancôme posted on Facebook that Ho is not a spokesperson for the brand. The cancellation drew a heavy backlash in Hong Kong, resulting in some Lancôme shops in Hong Kong shutting down during the protests. Some Hong Kong merchants refused to accept the political pressure from the Chinese government. Listerine, another brand that Ho represents, retained the singer despite criticism from the \"Global Times\" for hiring Ho as its spokesperson.\n\nHo ended up playing the concert without Lancôme's support.\n\n"}
{"id": "7733852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733852", "title": "Laura Smith Haviland", "text": "Laura Smith Haviland\n\nLaura Smith Haviland (December 20, 1808- April 20, 1898) was an American abolitionist, suffragette, and social reformer. She was an important figure in the history of the Underground Railroad.\n\nLaura Smith Haviland was born on December 20, 1808, in Kitley Township, Ontario, Canada to American parents, Daniel Smith and Asenath \"Sene\" Blancher, who had immigrated shortly before her birth. Haviland wrote that Daniel was \"a man of ability and influence, of clear perceptions, and strong reasoning powers,\" while her mother Sene was \"of a gentler turn, ... a quiet spirit, benevolent and kind to all, and much beloved by all who knew her.\" The Smiths, farmers of modest means, were devout members of the Society of Friends, better known as Quakers. Haviland's father was a minister in the Society and her mother was an Elder.\n\nThough the Quakers dressed plainly, and strictly forbade dancing, singing, and other pursuits they deemed frivolous, many of their views were progressive by the standards of the day. The Quakers encouraged the equal education of men and women, an extraordinarily forward-thinking position in an age when most individuals were illiterate, and providing a woman with a thorough education was largely viewed as unnecessary. Quaker women as well as men acted as ministers. While most Quakers did not agitate vocally for abolition, the majority condemned slavery as brutal and unjust. It was in this atmosphere that Haviland was raised.\n\nIn 1815, her family left Canada and returned to the United States, settling in the remote and sparsely populated town of Cambria, in western New York. At the time there was no school near their home, and for the next six years Haviland's education consisted of little more than \"a spelling lesson\" given to her daily by her mother. Haviland described herself as an inquisitive child, deeply interested in the workings of the world around her, who at a young age began questioning her parents about everything from scripture to Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation. Once she had mastered spelling, Haviland supplemented her meager education by devouring every book she could borrow from friends, relatives, and neighbors, reading everything from religious material to serious historical studies.\n\nAt sixteen, Laura met Charles Haviland, Jr., a devout young Quaker, whose parents were both respected ministers. They were married on November 11, 1825, at Lockport, New York. According to Laura, Charles was a devoted husband and theirs was a happy marriage. They were the parents of eight children.\n\nThe Havilands spent the first four years of their marriage in Royalton Township, near Lockport, New York, before moving in September, 1829, to Raisin, Lenawee County in the Michigan Territory. They settled three miles (5 km) from the homestead her parents acquired four years earlier. Michigan was then a largely unsettled wilderness, but land was cheap, and there were a number of other Quakers in the vicinity.\n\nHaviland vividly recalled seeing African Americans verbally abused, and even physically assaulted, in Lockport, New York, when she was a child. These experiences, combined with the horrific descriptions in John Woolman's history of the slave-trade, made an indelible impression.\n\nThe pictures of these crowded slave-ships, with the cruelties of the slave system after they were brought to our country, often affected me to tears ... My sympathies became too deeply enlisted for the poor negroes who were thus enslaved for time to efface.\n\nHaviland and other members of the Raisin community helped Elizabeth Margaret Chandler organize the Logan Female Anti-Slavery Society in 1832. It was the first anti-slavery organization in Michigan. Five years later, in 1837, Haviland and her husband founded a \"manual labor school ... designed for indigent children,\" which was later known as the Raisin Institute. Haviland instructed the girls in household chores, while her husband and one of her brothers, Harvey Smith, taught the boys to perform farm work. At the Havilands' insistence, the school was open to all children, \"regardless of race, creed, or sex.\" It was the first racially integrated school in Michigan. Some of Haviland's white students, upon learning they were to study with African Americans, threatened to leave. Most were persuaded to remain, however, and Laura wrote that once the students were together in the classroom their prejudices \"soon melted away.\"\n\nIn 1838, Harvey Smith sold his farm, and the proceeds were used to erect accommodations for fifty students. The Havilands expanded the school's curriculum, operating it more closely along the lines of traditional elementary and secondary schools. They then hired a graduate of Oberlin College to serve as the school's principal. Due to their diligence, the Raisin Institute was soon recognized as one of the best schools in the Territory.\n\nAs the Havilands became more actively involved in anti-slavery work, tensions grew within the Quaker community. There was a split between the so-called \"radical abolitionists,\" like the Havilands, who wanted immediate emancipation, and the majority of Orthodox Quakers. Although the Quakers condemned slavery, most did not approve of active participation in abolitionist societies. By 1839, in order to continue with their abolitionist work, the Havilands, her parents, and fourteen other like-minded Quakers, felt compelled to resign their membership. They then joined a group of Methodists known as the Wesleyans, who were equally devoted to the abolitionist cause.\n\nIn the spring of 1845, an epidemic of erysipelas killed six members of Haviland's family, including both of her parents, her husband, and her youngest child. Haviland also fell ill, but survived. At thirty-six, Haviland found herself a widow with seven children to support, a farm to run, the Raisin Institute to manage, and substantial debts to repay. Sadly, just two years later tragedy struck again, when her eldest son died. Due to lack of funds, Haviland was forced to close the Raisin Institute in 1849.\n\nIn spite of her personal losses, she continued with her abolitionist work, and in 1851, she helped organize the Refugee Home Society in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Fugitive slaves were settled there, a church and school were erected for them, and each family was given twenty-five acres to farm. Laura remained on for several months as the settlement's teacher. She then traveled to Ohio, where, with her daughter Anna, she taught in a school founded for African American children in Cincinnati and Toledo, Ohio.\n\nBy 1856, she had raised enough funds to reopen the Raisin Institute, and returned to Michigan. The new curriculum included having former slaves give lectures about the realities of life on a slave plantation. The Institute closed once again in 1864, after most of the staff, and some of the students, enlisted to fight during the Civil War.\n\nDuring the 1830s, the Haviland family began hiding runaway slaves on their farm. Their home became the first Underground Railroad station established in Michigan. After her husband's death, Haviland continued to shelter fugitive slaves in her home, in some cases, personally escorting them to Canada. She played an important role in the Detroit branch of the group, where she was considered railroad \"superintendent\", with George DeBaptiste the \"president\"and William Lambert the \"vice president\" or \"secretary\".\n\nShe also traveled to the South on multiple occasions to aid escaped slaves. Her first trip was made in 1846, in an effort to free the children of fugitive slaves, Willis and Elsie Hamilton. The children were still in the possession of their mother's former slave owner, John P. Chester, a tavern-keeper in Washington County, Tennessee.\n\nChester had learned of the Hamilton's whereabouts and sent slave-catchers after them. When that failed, Chester attempted to lure the Hamiltons to his plantation with the promise that they would be treated as freedmen and reunited with their children. Suspecting a trap, Haviland went to Tennessee in their place, accompanied by her son Daniel and a student from the Raisin Institute, James Martin, who posed as Willis Hamilton. Mr. Chester became irate once he realized Willis Hamilton was not with Mrs. Haviland. He held the trio at gunpoint, threatening to murder them, kidnap James Martin, and enslave him in Willis Hamilton's stead. They managed to escape, but Mr. Chester did not forget Laura Haviland. His family would continue to haunt her for fifteen years, pursuing her legally in court and privately with slave catchers, while barraging her with derogatory letters. The following letter was sent by Chester's son, Thomas K. Chester, in February 1847. It's provides a good example of the tone which permeated the Chester family's correspondence with Haviland:\n\nHaviland responded, sarcastically thanking him for naming the child after her family and stating that she hoped \"like Moses, may he become instrumental in leading his people away from a worse bondage than that of Egypt.\" Enraged by what he deemed her insolence, Thomas Chester placed a bounty on Haviland's head. All throughout the South he circulated \"hand-bills\" (fliers) describing Mrs. Haviland, detailing her abolitionist work, naming her place of residence and offering $3000, a considerable sum at the time, to anyone willing to kidnap or murder her on his behalf.\n\nThree years later, after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, the Chester family attempted to have Haviland tried under the new statute for \"stealing\" their slaves. Haviland not only ran the risk of being physically harmed by angry slave-owners, like the Chesters, or their slave-catchers, if found guilty of violating the Fugitive Slave Law she would also be subject to hefty fines and imprisonment. Still, Haviland was determined to continue with her work, no matter what the personal cost:\n\n... I would not for my right hand become instrumental in returning one escaped slave to bondage. I firmly, believe in our Declaration of Independence, that all men are created free and equal, and that no human being has a right to make merchandise of others born in humbler stations, and place them on a level with horses, cattle, and sheep, knocking them off the auction-block to the highest bidder, sundering family ties, and outraging the purest and tenderest feelings of human nature.\n\nFortunately for Haviland, her case was brought before Judge Ross Wilkins, who sympathized with the abolitionists. The Chesters attempted to regain possession of the Hamiltons by force, but were prevented by Haviland and her neighbors. Judge Wilkins delayed her case, allowing Haviland to help the Hamiltons escape to Canada. In the end, Haviland evaded legal punishment.\n\nIn addition to another failed rescue attempt, detailed in her autobiography, Haviland later made other, more successful journeys south that went unmentioned in her memoirs. In the guise of a white cook, and once even posing as a fair skinned free person of color, she visited plantations and managed to help some slaves escape north.\n\n During the Civil War, Laura toured many refugee camps and hospitals, even venturing onto the frontlines, to distribute supplies to displaced citizens, freed slaves, and soldiers.\n\nIn the spring of 1865, the commissioner of the newly created Freedmen's Bureau, General Oliver O. Howard, named Haviland Inspector of Hospitals. Haviland's actual duties consisted of far more than inspecting hospitals. She spent the next two years traveling through Virginia, Tennessee, Kansas and Washington, D.C., distributing supplies, reporting on the living conditions of Freedmen and indigent whites, organizing refugee camps, establishing schools, working as a teacher, volunteering as a nurse at Freedmen's hospitals, and giving public lectures. In an effort to help whites understand what the Freedmen had endured under slavery, she toured abandoned plantations and collected chains, irons, restraints, and other implements which had been used on slaves. Haviland transported these items north and exhibited them during her lectures. She also met personally with President Andrew Johnson to petition for the release of former slaves still being held in Southern prisons for attempting years before to escape slavery.\n\nWhile working at the Freedmen's Hospital in Washington, D.C., Haviland met and befriended Sojourner Truth, who later recalled an incident that took place one day when they had gone into town to get supplies. Haviland suggested they take a street car back to the hospital. Truth described what happened next as follows:\n\nAfter the Civil War, the Freedmen's Aid Commission acquired the former Raisin Institute, renamed it the Haviland Home, and converted it into an orphanage for African American children. Its first residents were seventy-five homeless children brought by Haviland from Kansas. As other children joined their ranks, and their numbers increased, many whites in Michigan became unnerved. They claimed that Haviland was burdening white taxpayers and demanded that Haviland Home be closed. Matters came to a head in 1867, when the orphanage was purchased by the American Missionary Association, who closed the orphanage, and literally threw the orphans out into the street.\n\nHaviland abandoned her work in Washington, D.C., to return to Michigan and help the children. She managed to collect enough donations to purchase the orphanage and began to manage it herself. By 1870, funds were extremely scarce. The situation became so dire that, at Haviland's urging, the state took over the orphanage and it became the Michigan Orphan Asylum.\n\nWhen the Reconstruction ended in 1877, many African Americans fled the South, where they were subject to attacks by racist individuals and groups such as the Ku Klux Klan. Thousands of African American men, women and children, crowded into makeshift refugee camps in Kansas. Determined to help, Haviland set out with her daughter Anna for Washington, D.C., where she testified about the appalling conditions at the camps, before traveling to Kansas with supplies for the refugees. Using her personal savings, Haviland purchased in Kansas for the Freedmen at one of the refugee camps to live on and farm.\n\nDuring her life, Laura Haviland not only combated slavery and worked to improve the living conditions of Freedmen, she was also actively involved in other social causes, advocating for women's suffrage, and helping to organize the Women's Christian Temperance Union in Michigan.\n\nLaura Haviland died on April 20, 1898 in Grand Rapids, Michigan, at the home of her brother, Samuel Smith. She is buried next to her husband in the Raisin Valley Cemetery in Adrian, Michigan.\n\nSymbolically, at Haviland's funeral, hymns were sung by a choir of white and African American singers, and then her casket was carried to the grave by a group white and African American pall-bearers.\n\nIn recognition of her efforts, the town of Haviland, Kansas was named in her honor. A statue of Laura Haviland stands in front of the Lenawee County Historical Museum in Adrian, Michigan. The inscription on the statue reads:\n\nA Tribute to a Life Consecrated to the Betterment of Humanity.\n\nLaura Smith Haviland Elementary School in Waterford, Michigan is named in her honor.\n\nLaura Smith Haviland will be inducted into the National Abolition Hall of Fame in Peterboro, NY in October, 2018 (www.nationalabolitionhalloffameandmuseum.org) https://newyorkhistoryblog.org/2018/07/08/hall-of-fame-inducts-three-who-resisted-fugitive-slave-laws/\n\n\nA Woman's Life-Work : Labors and Experiences of Laura S. Haviland (1882) - Library of Congress call number 10101385 Internet Archive https://archive.org/details/womanslifeworkla01havi\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5527507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5527507", "title": "List of ISO 639-3 codes", "text": "List of ISO 639-3 codes\n"}
{"id": "41938833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41938833", "title": "LoliRock", "text": "LoliRock\n\nLoliRock is a French animated television series produced by Marathon Media and Zodiak Kids. It was created by Jean Louis-Vandestoc and written by Madellaine Paxson. It first aired in France on 18 October 2014 on France 3, and has expanded to television channels in Europe. It has also been licensed in United States, Canada, United Kingdom and Australia, with an English dub released to Netflix on 1 May 2016.\n\nIris is a teenage girl who likes to sing and help others. However, when she sings, strange events happen. Encouraged by her best friend Nathaniel, Iris auditions for a girl rock band, but her power destroys the room and she is later attacked by two strangers. The judges at the audition, Talia and Auriana, come to help her, and they explain to her that she is actually a princess with magical powers who must save her kingdom of Ephedia from the clutches of Gramorr, who has taken over. The only way to save it is to master her powers and to find the Oracle Gems of the Royal Crown of Ephedia, which are scattered across the Earth. Over the course of the series, the three girls try to live as both ordinary teenagers as well as rock stars of the all-girl band \"LoliRock\", while training Iris in secret and gathering the gems. But when Gramorr sends twin siblings Praxina and Mephisto to fight them and summon monsters to cause chaos, the girls must work together as magical girl warrior princesses.\n\nIn season 2, the three girls are joined by Ephedian girls Carissa and Lyna, who also transform into warrior princesses, but are not part of the band. The girls continue gathering Oracle Gems while helping those in need, but Gramorr and the evil twins continue to get stronger as well. When the last oracle gem is collected, Iris faces the reality of having to say goodbye to Nathaniel and returning to Ephedia, but when Gramorr claims the final gem and is freed, the girls work together to face him in one last battle.\n\n\n\nJean-Louis Vandestoc drew inspiration for \"LoliRock\" from watching anime in his childhood that was broadcast on the French channels, including \"Sherlock Hound\", \"Space Adventure Cobra\", \"The Mysterious Cities of Gold\" and \"Dragon Ball\", but his most influential title he watched was \"Magical Princess Minky Momo\". He wrote \"I loved the very core of it: a child transforming into an adult, helping people and making good deeds, the nice chara design, and finally the tone of the show: it could be funny and light, but also dramatic and tearful at other times. My soul was marked forever.\" After working on French cartoons \"Monster Buster Club\" and \"Rekkit Rabbit\" he wanted to make a magical girl show. He chose \"Sailor Moon\" and \"Pretty Cure\" as references for the magical girl part, and \"Jem and the Holograms\" for the music career part.\n\nThe producers at Marathon Media asked designers to draw Iris for a magical girl project as a teenage alien princess with ice/crystal powers. Character designer Bertrand Todesco drew inspiration from Betty Autier, a French fashion blogger of \"le blog de betty\". She had dark hair and straight bangs, but Todesco figured the producers wanted a blonde girl for a lead, so he went with the look of Jenny Humphrey of the TV series \"Gossip Girl\", portrayed by Taylor Momsen. The producers also wanted the girls' irises to be star-shaped. Autier's appearance as well as her wardrobe was retained for Talia.\n\nFollowing the initial picture, Todesco needed to design a princess/rockstar outfit, of which he chose a green dress worn by Blake Lively. The colour was changed to pink as green was not suitable for merchandising. Todeco added a magical pet creature in the custom of \"Sailor Moon\", which would later become Amaru. He designed in the hair streaks for when the girls were rock stars, and dresses that weren't so frilly that they would be complicated to draw.\n\nIn designing Talia and the then-named Aurora, Todesco originally started with a black girl and an Asian girl with typical hairstyles, but later changed his mind. He then found inspirations from other \"Gossip Girl\" characters as well as actresses Amber Stevens West and Ariana Grande, the latter of whom was how she acted in the teen sitcom \"Victorious\" rather than her current pop singer image. He also referenced Keri Hilson and Alicia Keys. \"Victorious\" was also the inspiration for some of the key visuals he used in promoting the series to get funding.\n\nEarly promotions of the series pictured the antagonist named Gromar to be an evil uncle of Iris who imprisoned the king and queen, and that he sent his two evil twin nephews to Earth to thwart Lolirock and take the gems. Paxson said that they abandoned the idea as it would have made him more of a stereotype. Todesco originally conceived of antagonists Praxina and Mephisto to have guitar playing sound powers that would counter the girls' singing voice powers but the idea was abandoned. After several iterations, Praxina's final design was approved where she would have a butterfly brooch and motif, while Mephisto's was approved later, after director Jean-Louis had suggested he have a snake motif and a half-covered face. Eventually Gramorr would have the covered face,\n\nThe design for the crystal magic circles and related animation was first done in 2D based off some reference pictures. Different colours and symbols were assigned to each character. It was later created in CGI. Animation tools used include Toon Boom Harmony, Adobe After Effects, and Blender.\n\nLyna and Carissa were created in response to a request from the producers when the writing for season 1 was nearing completion. The request was to add two new princesses to increase the member count to five. However, the LoliRock developers thought they already had too many characters so they made Lyna and Carissa supporting characters that were \"outside the main gang but always ready and willing to help when needed\". The two girls' transformations resemble Sailor Uranus and Sailor Neptune. The designers considered making one of the two girls look Asian to balance out the overall group's look; they applied the look to both girls, and chose Lyna. There was also a concern that Carissa might be confused with Auriana as the show's redhead, they decided to go with giving her an Irish redhead theme anyway.\n\n\"LoliRock\" head writer Madellaine Paxson, who had worked on children's shows \"Making Fiends\", \"Power Rangers RPM\" as well as the horror film \"Blood Punch\", described the themes of the show as: friendship and love, magic, singing / music, and good vs. evil. She said the hardest part in writing an episode is the beginning and also in integrating the themes along with a story with a person that needs help. Her favourite scenes from the show were where the princesses are together doing ordinary teenage girl things as they had opportunities for comedy. She summarised the show as having something for everybody, very girly, but good action too. In the press release, Zodiak Kids describe the show as having a \"cast of characters that are aspirational role models for a generation of children for whom justice has become a core value\". Jean-Louis Vandestoc chose a band concept for the series as it was different from his other shows which involved characters that went to school and then saved the world. The school part was replaced by the girls training or rehearsing for the concert. The developers later commented in their production blog FAQ that Iris was still attending school and that the episodes aren't all during summer vacation.\n\nAccording to posts on the production Tumblr, \"LoliRock\" is classified as somewhere between a script-driven and storyboard-driven show. They started with a full script and then recorded lines with scratch voices or final voices, as re-recording after storyboarding would be costlier. The storyboard is then worked on, and some of the storyboard artists and supervisor adding and changing things they felt were important such as with the kiss scene in the Shanila episode and the Iris becoming a dark princess. Storyboard stage also included fixes for continuity and plot holes.\n\nThe music score was composed and produced by Norbert \"Yellowshark\" Gilbert, with about 600 tracks over the course of the 52 26-minute episodes. Five recurring songs (including the theme song) were recorded for each season. Due to limited resources in production, the team posted that Iris would be the only one singing on those songs, so they recorded Yasmin Shah in English and then developed the music videos. After realising that it would be unnatural for the other girls to not sing, they designed Iris to have a microphone while the others would just sing along. They considered recording singing for Talia and Auriana but were constrained by budget. Cassandre Berger provided the singing on the French dub. The voices were then mixed. As the dialogue was done later, the voice actors only sang on the incidental bits such as rehearsals.\n\nThe episodes were written and dubbed in English first and then adapted into French. For season 1, the English voices were recorded at Vida Spark Productions in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, while the French voices were recorded at Lylo studios in Paris, France.\n\nZodiak Media announced \"LoliRock\" in April 2013 at the MIPTV event in Cannes, France. Early promotions included the idea of princesses with magical singing voices. The demographic target audience is girls ages 6 to 12, and the group has partnered with France Televisions and Disney Channel France. Marathon Media CEO Vincent Chalvron-Demersay and general manager David Michel said that \"LoliRock is a fresh, contemporary take on what it is to be a girl today, infused with music and magical adventures and the all-important notion of justice in today's teenage world. It's a perfect companion piece to \"Totally Spies!\", which has been so successful in this same space.\" In comparing the promotion of the show to that of \"Totally Spies!\", Zodiak senior vice-president Patricia de Wilde said that Zodiak made sure the premise was made clear for the new show.\n\nThe five songs were publicised as music videos on YouTube. Plans were also made to create live-action \"LoliRock\" bands in various markets, such as Super TV's contest held online and among major cities in Italy. A website was launched with videos, games, and message boards. Promotional toys were also offered at Quick restaurants as well as McDonald's. An app was developed for the music which Zodiak senior vice-president Patricia de Wilde said was a \"sort of cross between K-Pop and Katy Perry.\"\n\nThe show premiered on France 3 on 18 October 2014. running for 13 episodes until March 2015. On 26 January 2016, Zodiak Kids published an article officially announcing that BatteryPOP had acquired AVOD (streaming) rights to LoliRock for one year.\n\nOn 1 April, France Televisions announced the release of episodes on France 4, and Disney France. Zodiak also reported that Italy would launch LoliRock on De Agostini Editore's Super! DTT channel. France 4 began broadcasting the 13 episodes on 4 April 2016. On 1 May, the first season of the series was released on Netflix, in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nThe \"LoliRock\" producers pre-released the four episodes of season 2 on YouTube on December 2016. Netflix released the English dub of the season 2 episodes on 5 January 2017. It was broadcast on France 4 in February with two episodes per weekday.\n\nElla Anders of BSC Kids wrote that \"LoliRock\" \"plays it clear as a magical girl series and even nods other iconic shows in the genera\" such as \"Pretty Cure\" and \"Sailor Moon\", but that it is \"grand in its own right and should be held up as a great magical girl series\". She liked the diverse cast, plot, humor and background story, the last of which she had not seen since \"\", and that it was a type of show she would have loved growing up.\n\nHeather Newman of \"Forbes\" magazine described the series as \"A French animated series about an impossibly thin, stylish, magical girl who sings.\"\n\nWhen asked whether \"LoliRock\" would have a cross-over episode with French superhero show \"\" from Zagtoon, Thomas Astruc, who was the creator and director on \"Miraculous\" and a storyboarder on \"LoliRock\", said it was unlikely given they are from two different production companies, but that the animation community is small and that both companies share the same love of animation. He has posted about the two being cousin shows.\n\nA \"LoliRock\" video game, available on iOS and Android, was released by Bulkypix in 2014. The game lets players sing to the songs featured on the show, record performances, and customise a sound studio and pick the girls' outfits.\n\nZodiak has also worked a deal with publishing company Hachette Jeunesse to create novels, activity books, stationery, and e-books.\n\n"}
{"id": "13374092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13374092", "title": "Masgouf", "text": "Masgouf\n\nSemeç Masgûf (Arabic: سمچ مسگوف), or simply masgûf, is a Mesopotamian dish consisting of seasoned, grilled carp; it is often considered the national dish of Iraq.\n\nThe Iraqi capital city Baghdad prides itself of making the best masgûf, with the Ebû Newâs district on the shores of the Tigris river, \"dedicated\" to this dish, having more than two dozen fish restaurants. Nonetheless, one can find masgûf all over Iraq, especially near the Tigris-Euphrates Basin.\n\nOutside of Iraq, masgûf is more or less popular in the Jazīra as in the rural parts of Syria, especially in the regions bordering Iraq, such as in the Raqqa Governorate, which is crossed by the Euphrates. It is also seen, at a lesser scale, in the Jazīra areas located in Turkey, such as Nusaybin and Cizre, on the Iraqi border.\n\nMasgûf is now also found in Damascus due to a high number of Iraqis exiles living there since the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In the district of Jeremana alone, where most Iraqis live, more than ten masgûf restaurants, staffed by Iraqis. The fish is brought daily from the Syrian Euphrates to these restaurants, and is kept alive in a fishpond or a big aquarium until it is ordered.\n\nThe fish is caught alive and weighed. It is clubbed to kill it, then split lengthwise down the belly, cleaned and spread out into a single flat piece. It is then partially scaled, gutted and cut in two identical halves from the back while leaving the belly intact, opening the fish in the shape of a large, symmetrical circle. From there, the cook bastes the inside of the fish with a marinade of olive oil, rock salt, tamarind, and ground turmeric.\n\nThe fish is then either impaled on two sharp piles of wood, or placed in a big cast iron grill with a handle and a locking snare, designed specifically for this dish.\n\nThe fish, together with the grill or the piles, is then placed near the fire of the \"fire altar\", a feature shared by all masgûf restaurants. This \"altar\" typically consists of a big open-air area centered by a raised, podium-like sandbox that is either round, octagonal or sometimes rectangular, in the middle of which there is a large fire of apricot tree logs.\n\nCooking typically takes between one and three hours, until most of the fish's fat is burned off, during which time the guests will pick at their mezes.\nWhen the fish is well cooked and crispy on the outside, it is typically laid on a large tray garnished with lime (or lemon), slices of onion and Iraqi pickles. Sometimes, in Baghdad, a little [mango chutney]] is also spread on the inside. The tray is then covered by a large crispy flatbread straight of a clay oven to keep its contents hot until served to the client.\n\nThe Turkmens of Northern Iraq are known to prepare a similar recipe, often using a clay oven.\n\n\nMasgûf arguably being the most famous dish of Iraq, it is also the one that is always the foremost served to foreign delegations visiting the country by the Iraqi statesmen.\nTwo notable admirers of this dish are said to be the former President of France, Jacques Chirac and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the former chairman of the Russian Duma. Chirac apparently fell for masgûf during a visit to Iraq in a formal dinner given to his honor by Saddam Hussein.\n"}
{"id": "40088692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40088692", "title": "Meditation (writing)", "text": "Meditation (writing)\n\nA meditation (derived from the Latin \"meditatio\", from a verb \"meditari\", meaning \"to think, contemplate, devise, ponder\") is a written work or a discourse intended to express its author's reflections, or to guide others in contemplation. Often they are an author's musings or extended thoughts on deeper philosophical or religious questions.\n\nExamples of meditations are:\n"}
{"id": "34262906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34262906", "title": "Melmastia", "text": "Melmastia\n\nMelmastia, or hospitality, is the requirement Pashtunwali places on all its tribesmen towards others, whether they are strangers or members of one's own tribe. Melmastia requires hospitality and profound respect to be shown all visitors, regardless of distinctions of race, religion, national affiliation as well as economic status and doing so without any hope of remuneration or favour. Pashtuns will go to great extents to show their hospitality.\n\nElphinstone in 1815 observed: \"The most remarkable characteristic of the Afghans is their hospitality. The practice of this virtue is so much a point of national honor, that their reproach to an inhospitable man is that he has no Pushtunwali\". (Elphinston 1969: 226). \n\nHospitality to strangers is an obligation and is offered free, without expecting any reciprocity. But hospitality to one's kinsmen or tribesmen puts the recipient under reciprocal obligation, accompanied by the \"fear that he will not be in the position to return it adequately when the occasion demands\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32862044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32862044", "title": "National Archives of Gabon", "text": "National Archives of Gabon\n\nThe National Archives of Gabon were founded in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "925041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925041", "title": "Pedestrian malls in the United States", "text": "Pedestrian malls in the United States\n\nPedestrian malls, also known as pedestrian streets, are the most common form of pedestrian zone in large cities in the United States. They are typically streets lined with storefronts and closed off to most automobile traffic. Emergency vehicles may have access at all times and delivery vehicles may be restricted to either limited delivery hours or entrances on side streets.\n\n\"Pedestrian mall\" as a term is most often used in the United States and Australia. \"Pedestrian street\" and \"Pedestrian zone\" are the more common terms worldwide.\n\nIn the 1960s and early 1970s, many mid-sized U.S. cities installed pedestrian malls in their downtown areas, as a response to increasing traffic jams and the commercial success of self-contained edge-of-town shopping malls.\n\nIn 2009, there were at least 75 pedestrian malls in the U.S. Besides the Kalamazoo Mall, some notable examples are the Church Street Marketplace in Burlington, Vermont; the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Virginia; the Third Street Promenade in Santa Monica, California; the Fremont Street Experience in Las Vegas, Nevada; the Buffalo Place Main Street Pedestrian Mall in Buffalo, New York; Ithaca Commons in Ithaca, New York; the Pearl Street Mall in Boulder, Colorado; St. Charles, Missouri; Salem, Massachusetts; Ped Mall in Iowa City, Iowa; Lincoln Road in Miami Beach, Florida; the Fulton Mall in Fresno, California; the K Street Mall in Sacramento, California; the 16th Street Mall in Denver, Colorado; State Street in Madison, Wisconsin; Nicollet Mall in Minneapolis, Minnesota; The Grove in Los Angeles, California; Fort Street Mall in Honolulu, Hawaii; City Center in Oakland, California; Walnut Street in Des Moines, Iowa, Downtown Crossing and Faneuil Hall/Quincy Market in Boston; Washington Street Mall in Cape May, New Jersey; The Downtown Cumberland Mall in Cumberland, Maryland; and more recently former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg worked hard over his final term in office to create pedestrian malls in major tourist centers that had also been areas of severe automobile congestion such as Times Square and Herald Square, and many others around the country. Typically these downtown pedestrian malls were three or four linear blocks simply blocked off to private street traffic, with fountains, benches, planters that doubled as seating areas, bollards, playgrounds, interfaces to public transit and other amenities installed to attract shoppers.\n\nMany were later re-converted to accommodate automobile traffic within twenty years. However, most of these areas are still popular attractions today. The Pearl Street Mall in Boulder continues to thrive with its college crowd atmosphere and the Third Street Promenade in Santa Monica thrives on tourist traffic. The Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Virginia, now a vital business, entertainment, and retail area, spent roughly twenty years as a somewhat depressed stretch until an ice skating rink and multiplex opened on it in the mid-1990s. Broadway St. in Eugene, Oregon, is finally being developed with a hotel, movie theater, and retail after decades of limited economic activity following its experiment with a pedestrian mall. The Federal Plaza in Downtown Youngstown, Ohio is a similar case. Since the unsuccessful Federal Plaza has been ripped up and redesigned in 2004, the city of Youngstown has seen the development of a new entertainment district erupt. A new arena, two new courthouses, federal buildings, bistros and other new night-spots have placed themselves in Youngstown's core. Burlington, Vermont's Church Street Marketplace has been expanded from the original three blocks to four, encompassing the entirety of the city's commercial \"main street,\" and remains a thriving cultural center with shops, restaurants, vendor carts, sidewalk performers and special events which does not appear to be affected by the development of big box store farms in neighboring Williston. Poughkeepsie, New York, on the other hand, has reverted its Main Mall to vehicular traffic, having failed at maintaining a place pedestrians wanted to be (it was, at least in part, Poughkeepsie's initial success which convinced Burlington to proceed with its Marketplace project).\n\nThe San Antonio River Walk is a special-case pedestrian street, one level down from the automobile street. The River Walk winds and loops under bridges as two parallel sidewalks lined with restaurants and shops, connecting the major tourist draws from Alamo Plaza to Rivercenter, to HemisFair Plaza, to the Transit Tower. Most downtown buildings have street entrances and separate river entrances one level below. This separates the automotive service grid (delivery and ambulance/police vehicles) from pedestrian traffic below, provides bridges, walkways, and staircases, and attempts to balance retail, commercial, office, green space and cultural uses.\n\nIn the last decades of the 20th century many urbanists such as Jan Gehl and Peter Calthorpe have listed and explained what they see as the virtues of pedestrian streets. Urban renewal activists have often pushed for the creation of auto-free zones in parts or in all of the sectors of a metropolitan area.\n\nIn some locations, the definition of a pedestrian mall is codified. Examples include Las Vegas and Riverside, California.\n\nPedestrian malls are streets that have limited or prohibited motor vehicle access, with the intent to create a walking zone. This may be done to create a safer environment in areas that have high pedestrian traffic, to reduce the noise and pollution levels, or to increase exercise levels by encouraging walking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23263913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23263913", "title": "Performative turn", "text": "Performative turn\n\nThe performative turn is a paradigmatic shift in the humanities and social sciences that has affected such disciplines as anthropology, archaeology, linguistics, ethnography, history and the relatively young discipline of performance studies. Central to the performative turn is the concept of performance.\n\nPreviously used as a metaphor for theatricality, performance is now often employed as a heuristic principle to understand human behaviour. The assumption is that all human practices are 'performed', so that any action at whatever moment or location can be seen as a public presentation of the self. This methodological approach entered the social sciences and humanities in the 1990s but is rooted in the 1940s and 1950s.\nUnderlying the performative turn was the need to conceptualize how human practices relate to their contexts in a way that went beyond the traditional sociological methods that did not problematize representation. Instead of focusing solely on given symbolic structures and texts, scholars stress the active, social construction of reality as well as the way that individual behaviour is determined by the context in which it occurs. Performance functions both as a metaphor and an analytical tool and thus provides a perspective for framing and analysing social and cultural phenomena.\n\nPerformance is a bodily practice that produces meaning. It is the presentation or 're-actualization' of symbolic systems through living bodies as well as lifeless mediating objects, such as architecture. In the academic field, as opposed to the domain of the performing arts, the concept of performance is generally used to highlight dynamic interactions between social actors or between a social actor and his or her immediate environment. \n\nPerformance is an equivocal concept and for the purpose of analysis it is useful to distinguish between two senses of 'performance'. \nIn the more formal sense, performance refers to a framed event. Performance in this sense is an enactment out of convention and tradition. Founder of the discipline of performance studies Richard Schechner dubs this category 'is-performance'. In a weaker sense, performance refers to the informal scenarios of daily life, suggesting that everyday practices are 'performed'. Schechner called this the 'as-performance'.\nGenerally the performative turn is concerned with the latter, although the two senses of performance should be seen as ends of a spectrum rather than distinct categories.\n\nThe origins of the performative turn can be traced back to two strands of theorizing about performance as a social category that surfaced in the 1940s and 1950s. \nThe first strand is anthropological in origin and may be labelled the dramaturgical model. Kenneth Burke (1945) expounded a 'dramatistic approach' to analyse the motives underlying such phenomena as communicative actions and the history of philosophy. Anthropologist Victor Turner focussed on cultural expression in staged theatre and ritual. In his highly influential \"The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life\" (1959), Erving Goffman emphasized the link between social life and performance by stating that 'the theatre of performances is in public acts'. Within the performative turn, the dramaturgical model evolved from the classical concept of 'society as theatre' into a broader category that considers all culture as performance. \nThe second strand of theory concerns a development in the philosophy of language launched by John Austin in the 1950s. In \"How to do things with words\" he introduced the concept of the 'performative utterance', opposing the prevalent principle that sentences are always statements that can be either true or false. Instead he argued that 'to say something is to do something'. In the 1960s John Searle extended this concept to the broader field of speech act theory, where due attention is paid to the use and function of language. In the 1970s Searle engaged in polemics with postmodern philosopher Jacques Derrida, about the determinability of context and the nature of authorial intentions in a performative text.\n\nThe performative turn is anchored in the broader cultural development of postmodernism. An influential current in modern thought, postmodernism is a radical reappraisal of the assumed certainty and objectivity of scientific efforts to represent and explain reality. \nPostmodern scholars argue that society itself both defines and constructs reality through experience, representation and performance. From the 1970s onwards, the concept of performance was integrated into a variety of theories in the humanities and social sciences, such as phenomenology, critical theory (the Frankfurt school), semiotics, Lacanian psychoanalysis, deconstructionism and feminism. The conceptual shift became manifest in a methodology oriented towards culture as a dynamic phenomenon as well as in the focus on subjects of study that were neglected before, such as everyday life. For scholars, the concept of performance is a means to come to grips with human agency and to better understand the way social life is constructed.\n\nThe concept of performance has been developed by such scholars as Richard Schechner, Victor Turner, Clifford Geertz, Erving Goffman, John Austin, John Searle, Pierre Bourdieu, Stern and Henderson, and Judith Butler.\n\nPerformance studies emerged through the work of, among others, theatre director and scholar Richard Schechner, who applied the notion of performance to human behaviour beyond the performing arts. His interpretation of performance as non-artistic yet expressive social behaviour and his collaboration in 1985 with anthropologist Victor Turner led to the beginning of performance studies as a separate discipline. Schechner defines performance as 'restored behaviour', to emphasize the symbolic and coded aspects of culture. Schechner understands performance as a continuum. Not everything is meant to be a performance, but everything, from performing arts to politics and economics, can be studied as performance.\n\nA related concept that emphasizes the political aspect of performance and its exercise of power is performativity. It is associated with philosopher and gender theorist Judith Butler. It is an anti-essentialist theory of subjectivity in which a performance of the self is repeated and dependent upon a social audience. In this way, these unfixed and precarious performances come to have the appearance of substance and continuity. A key theoretical point that was most radical in regards to theories of subjectivity and performance is that there is no performer behind the performance. Butler derived this idea from Nietzsche's concept of \"no doer behind the deed.\" This is to say that there is no self before the performance of the self, but rather that the performance has constitutive powers. This is how categories of the self for Judith Butler, such as gender, are seen as something that one \"does,\" rather than something one \"is.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, Pierre Bourdieu introduced the concept of 'habitus' or regulated improvisation, in a reaction against the structuralist notion of culture as a system of rules (Bourdieu 1972). Culture in his perspective undergoes a shift from 'a productive to a reproductive social order in which simulations and models constitute the world so that the distinction between real and appearance becomes erased'. Though Bourdieu himself does not often employ the term 'performance', the notion of the bodily habitus as a formative site has been a source of inspiration for performance theorists.\nThe cultural historian Peter Burke suggested using the term 'occasionalism' to stress the implication of the idea of performance that '[...] on different occasions or in different situations the same person behaves in different ways'.\n\nWithin the social sciences and humanities, an interdisciplinary strand that has contributed to the performative turn is non-representational theory. It is a 'theory of practices' that focuses on repetitive ways of expression, such as speech and gestures. As opposed to representational theory, it argues that human conduct is a result of linguistic interplay rather than of codes and symbols that are consciously planned. Non-representational theory interprets actions and events, such as dance or theatre, as actualisations of knowledge. It also intends to shift the focus away from the technical aspects of representation, to the practice itself.\n\nDespite cogent attempts at definition, the concept of performance continues to be plagued by ambiguities. Most pressing seems to be the paradox between performance as the consequence of following a script (cf. Schechners restored behaviour) and performance as a fluid activity with ample room for improvisation. Another problem involves the discrepancy between performance as a human activity that constructs culture (cf. Butler and Derrida) on the one hand and performance as a representation of culture on the other (cf. Bourdieu and Schechner). Another issue, important to pioneers such as Austin but now deemed irrelevant by postmodernism, concerns the sincerity of the actor. Can performance be authentic, or is it a product of pretence?\nPerformance offers a tremendous interdisciplinary archive of social practices. It offers methods to study such phenomena as body art, ecological theatre, multimedia performance and other kinds of performance arts. \nPerformance also provides a new registry of kinaesthetic effects, enabling a more conscientious observation of the moving body. The changing experience of movement, for example as a result of new technologies, has become an important subject of research. \nMoreover, the performative turn has helped scholars to develop an awareness of the relations between everyday life and stage performances. For example, at conferences and lectures, on the street and in other places where people speak in public, performers tend to use techniques derived from the world of theatre and dance. \nPerformance allows us to study nature and other apparently 'immovable' and 'objectified' elements of the human environment (e.g. architecture) as active agents, rather than only as passive objects. Thus, in recent decades environmental scholars have acknowledged the existence of a fluid interaction between man and nature. \nThe performative turn has provided additional tools to study everyday life. A household for example may be considered as a performance, in which the relation between wife and husband is a role play between two actors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58520173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58520173", "title": "Peter Mancina", "text": "Peter Mancina\n\nPeter Anthony Mancina (December 2, 1981) is an American cultural and political anthropologist, ethnographer, historian, writer, and labor union researcher who writes about sanctuary city politics, immigration, governmental power, policy, social movements, and culture.\n\nMancina holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Economy and Social Movements from The Evergreen State College, as well as a Master of Arts degree and a Ph.D. in Anthropology from Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, United States. Mancina is a former United States National Science Foundation grantee and Wenner-Gren Foundation grantee. From 2013-2017, Mancina was Researcher for Service Employees International Union Local 1021 in San Francisco. Originally from Kansas City, Kansas, United States, Mancina lives in Budapest, Hungary with his partner Zina Bozzay, a musician and composer, and their two daughters.\n\nAs a graduate student in the Department of Anthropology at Vanderbilt University, Mancina was trained as a Mayanist under the supervision of cultural and economic anthropologist Edward F. Fischer and studied politics, social movements, and Maya culture in rural Tzeltal-Maya towns in Chiapas, Mexico. His first professional work examined the lives of Tzeltal-Maya migrants in San Francisco, California and returned migrants in Chiapas. This transnational work charted the effect of their migration and day labor incomes in the U.S. upon development and politics in their towns of origin in Mexico.\n\nMancina has conducted ethnographic field research and archival research on the creation and implementation of San Francisco, California's sanctuary city policies. This has included interviews with sanctuary movement leaders, organizers, activists, and public officials; and \"participant observation\" with sanctuary movement organizations and sanctuary city policy advocacy groups. Part of this work has included conducting research in San Francisco City Hall and working as a constituent services staff member for sanctuary city law author District Supervisor David Campos. In this capacity, his participant observation work has included assisting undocumented city residents in seeking city services in a manner which itself was governed by sanctuary city laws. His sanctuary city-focused research has also included assisting a coalition of immigrant-serving non-profits and legal organizations called the San Francisco Immigrant Rights Defense Committee, now renamed \nFREESF in drafting and advocating for sanctuary city laws. From this research, Mancina wrote a comprehensive history of San Francisco, California's sanctuary city laws.\n\nMancina has also been cited in media outlets covering sanctuary city and sanctuary state political and legal developments.\n\nMancina is heavily influenced by critical theory, continental philosophy, the work of Michel Foucault, governmentality studies, and anthropological work in subfields of political anthropology known as the \"anthropology of the state\" and the \"anthropology of policy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6880840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6880840", "title": "Possibilism (geography)", "text": "Possibilism (geography)\n\nPossibilism in cultural geography is the theory that the environment sets certain constraints or limitations, but culture is otherwise determined by social conditions.\nIn Cultural ecology Marshall Sahlins used this concept in order to develop alternative approaches to the environmental determinism dominant at that time in ecological studies. Theory by Strabo in 64 BC that humans can make things happen by their own intelligence over time. Strabo cautioned against the assumption that nature and actions of humans were determined by the physical environment they inhabited. He observed that humans were the active elements in a human-environmental partnership.\n\nThe controversy between geographical \"possibilism\" and \"determinism\" might be considered as one of (at least) three dominant epistemologic controversies of contemporary geography. The other two controversies are 1) the \"debate between neopositivists and neokantians about the \"exceptionalism\" or the specificity of geography as a science [and 2)] the contention between Mackinder and Kropotkin about what is—or should be—geography\".\n\n\"Possibilism\" in geography is, thus, considered as a distinct approach to geographical knowledge, directly opposed to geographical \"determinism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438533", "title": "Register (sociolinguistics)", "text": "Register (sociolinguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a register is a variety of a language used for a particular purpose or in a particular social setting. For example, when speaking in a formal setting, an English speaker may be more likely to use features of prescribed grammar than in an informal setting—such as pronouncing words ending in \"-ing\" with a velar nasal instead of an alveolar nasal (e.g. \"walking\", not \"walkin'\"), choosing more formal words (e.g. \"father\" vs. \"dad,\" \"child\" vs. \"kid,\" etc.), and refraining from using words considered nonstandard, such as \"ain't\".\n\nAs with other types of language variation, there tends to be a spectrum of registers rather than a discrete set of obviously distinct varieties—numerous registers could be identified, with no clear boundaries between them. Discourse categorisation is a complex problem, and even in the general definition of \"register\" given above (language variation defined by use not user), there are cases where other kinds of language variation, such as regional or age dialect, overlap. Consequent to this complexity, scholarly consensus has not been reached for the definitions of terms including \"register\", \"field\" or \"tenor\"; different scholars' definitions of these terms are often in direct contradiction of each other. Additional terms including diatype, genre, text types, style, acrolect, mesolect, basilect, sociolect and ethnolect among many others, may be used to cover the same or similar ground. Some prefer to restrict the domain of the term \"register\" to a specific vocabulary (Wardhaugh, 1986) (which one might commonly call slang, jargon, argot or cant), while others argue against the use of the term altogether. These various approaches with their own \"register\", or set of terms and meanings, fall under disciplines including sociolinguistics, stylistics, pragmatics or systemic functional grammar.\n\nThe term \"register\" was first used by the linguist in 1956 (Agha, 2008), and brought into general currency in the 1960s by a group of linguists who wanted to distinguish among variations in language according to the \"user\" (defined by variables such as social background, geography, sex and age), and variations according to \"use\", \"in the sense that each speaker has a range of varieties and choices between them at different times\" (Halliday et al., 1964). The focus is on the way language is used in particular situations, such as legalese or motherese, the language of a biology research lab, of a news report, or of the bedroom.\n\nM. A. K. Halliday and R. Hasan (1976) interpret \"register\" to be \"the linguistic features which are typically associated with a configuration of situational features – with particular values of the field, mode and tenor...\". Field for them is \"the total event, in which the text is functioning, together with the purposive activity of the speaker or writer; includes subject-matter as one of the elements\". Mode is \"the function of the text in the event, including both the channel taken by language – spoken or written, extempore or prepared – and its genre, rhetorical mode, as narrative, didactic, persuasive, 'phatic communion', etc.\" The tenor refers to \"the type of role interaction, the set of relevant social relations, permanent and temporary, among the participants involved\". These three values – field, mode and tenor – are thus the determining factors for the linguistic features of the text. \"The register is the set of meanings, the configuration of semantic patterns, that are typically drawn upon under the specified conditions, along with the words and structures that are used in the realization of these meanings.\" Register, in the view of M. A. K. Halliday and R. Hasan, is one of the two defining concepts of text. \"A text is a passage of discourse which is coherent in these two regards: it is coherent with respect to the context of situation, and therefore consistent in register; and it is coherent with respect to itself, and therefore cohesive.\"\n\nOne of the most analyzed areas where the use of language is determined by the situation is the formality scale. Especially in language teaching, the term \"register\" often forms a shorthand for formal/informal style, although this is an aging definition. Linguistics textbooks may use the term \"tenor\" instead (Halliday 1978), but increasingly prefer the term \"style\" – \"we characterise styles as varieties of language viewed from the point of view of formality\" (Trudgill, 1992) – while defining \"registers\" more narrowly as specialist language use related to a particular activity, such as academic jargon. There is very little agreement as to how the spectrum of formality should be divided.\n\nIn one prominent model, Martin Joos (1961) describes five styles in spoken English:\n\nThe ISO has defined standard ISO 12620 on Data Category Registry (ISO, 2018). This is a registry for registering linguistic terms used in various fields of translation, computational linguistics and natural language processing and defining mappings both between different terms and the same terms used in different systems. The registers identified are:\n\n\nThe term diatype is sometimes used to describe language variation which is determined by its social purpose (Gregory 1967). In this formulation, language variation can be divided into two categories: dialect, for variation according to \"user\", and diatype for variation according to \"use\" (e.g. the specialised language of an academic journal). This definition of diatype is very similar to those of \"register\".\n\nThe distinction between dialect and diatype is not always clear; in some cases a language variety may be understood as both a dialect and a diatype.\n\nDiatype is usually analysed in terms of \"field\", the subject matter or setting; \"tenor\", the participants and their relationships; and \"mode\", the channel of communication, such as spoken, written or signed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2319698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2319698", "title": "Ripieno", "text": "Ripieno\n\nThe ripieno (, Italian for \"stuffing\" or \"padding\") is the bulk of instrumental parts of a musical ensemble who do not play as soloists, especially in Baroque music. These are the players who would play in sections marked \"tutti\", as opposed to soloist sections. It is most commonly used in reference to instrumental music, although it can also be used in choral music. An individual member of the ripieno is called a ripienista.\n\nIn the concerto grosso, it refers to the larger of the two ensembles as opposed to the group of soloists called the \"concertino\". In a ripieno concerto, there is no dominant soloist, so it resembles an early symphony. It can also refer to the main body of orchestra in early orchestral music, although this use is today often disregarded.\n\nIn band music, the term (or its variant spellings \"repiano\" and \"ripiano\") is used similarly to designate the players not at the leading desk, especially the clarinet and cornet players in military bands.\n\nThe expression \"senza ripieni\" is an instruction to play without the ripienistas; this instruction is frequently found in works by George Frederick Handel.\n\nThe term can also be used to designate a pipe organ mixture stop.\n"}
{"id": "18774101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18774101", "title": "Room divider", "text": "Room divider\n\nA room divider is a screen or piece of furniture placed in a way that divides a room into separate areas. Room dividers are used by interior designers and architects as means to divide space into separate distinct areas.\n\nThere are a number of different types of room dividers such as cubicle partitions, pipe and drape screens, shoji screens, and walls. Room dividers can be made from many materials, including wood, fabric, plexiglass, framed cotton canvas, pleated fabric or mirrors. Plants, shelves or railings might also be used as dividers. Portable room dividers have folded wall panels supported on wheels.\n\nIn general, room dividers are used in one of these ways:\n\n\nRoom dividers differ in nature being either:\n\n\nThey may completely obscure as in floor to ceiling dividers, or may allow sight through as for example when plant pots are used to divide areas\n\nHouses, and other residences, use a room divider to divide the space more effectively or as a decorating focus point. There are many uses for a room divider including: dividing the room, adding privacy to any space, hiding clutter and increasing storage and accents to the room. Other uses include adding color, redirecting foot traffic, creating a foyer, adding a desk front modesty screen, creating coziness, or adding a decorative background.\n\nMost commonly used in the residence is a small room divider, sometimes called a folding shoji screen. Shoji screens are usually tri-fold walls. A shoji screen may also be used to section off part of a bedroom or family room as an office. Plants, bookshelves, railings, fireplaces, light fixtures, and drapes have all been used to effectively create distinct spaces in individuals apartments and homes.\n\nIn schools or religious facilities, room dividers primarily are used to create temporary classrooms for education in large open rooms. Since the rooms were designed originally to be open for other purposes, the most common type of room divider is a portable room divider on casters which can easily be moved from place to place. After class, the room divider is rolled back into its storage area for future use.\n\nHotels and restaurants use two different types of room dividers. Commonly, you will see floor-to-ceiling room dividers in banquet halls and meeting spaces. These fixed dividers can be used to divide a banquet room into smaller facilities. In areas where room dividers need more flexibility, hotels and restaurants might use portable partitions similar to those used in schools.\n\nIn offices, room dividers are typically more permanent in nature and attached directly to the floor. These office cubicles room dividers allow taking a large office space and breaking it into quieter and more focused subdivided offices.\n\nConvention centers, by their very nature, are large facilities with wide open internal spaces. Consequently, they often need to be broken down into smaller areas. The most common room divider used in convention center is pipe and drape. The convention center sets up frames made of plastic, metal, or wire tubing. Fabric material is then hung over the frame to create back drops and hide other unsightly places in addition to creating multiple subdivided rooms.\n\nThe folding room screens were found in China in the 7th century where they were mainly used by royalty. They were very heavy and ornate, and were not moved around. In the 8th century, the Japanese began using lighter, more portable room dividers for tea ceremonies, religious events and outdoor processions. European travelers developed their own version of Asian screen dividers using wood, leather, silk, mirrors and decoupage. Folding room dividers are now used in dwellings, hospitals, schools, restaurants, corporate offices and convention centers.\n\n"}
{"id": "17183579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17183579", "title": "Service-learning in engineering education", "text": "Service-learning in engineering education\n\nMany engineering educators see service-learning as the solution to several prevalent problems in engineering education today. In the past, engineering curriculum has fluctuated between emphasizing engineering science to focusing more on practical aspects of engineering. Today, many engineering educators are concerned their students do not receive enough practical knowledge of engineering and its context. Some speculate that adding context to engineering help to motivate engineering students' studies and thus improve retention and diversity in engineering schools. Others feel that the teaching styles do not match the learning styles of engineering students. \n\nMany engineering faculty members believe the educational solution lies in taking a more constructivist approach, where students construct knowledge and connections between nodes of knowledge as opposed to passively absorbing knowledge. Educators see service-learning as a way to both implement a constructivism in engineering education as well as match the teaching styles to the learning styles of typical engineering students. As a result, many engineering schools have begun to integrate service-learning into their curricula.\n\nThe end of World War II marked the beginning of a movement toward increased emphasis on engineering science in engineering education. Initially, this movement enhanced the quality of engineering education. However, after decades of rising focus on science engineering, undergraduate engineering education began to lack instruction on practical engineering applications. Concurrently, the undergraduate engineering experience became increasingly fragmented. As one author described it, \"Schools break knowledge and experience into subjects, relentlessly turning wholes into parts, flowers into petals, history into events, without ever restoring continuity.\"\n\nIn the 1980s, many different organizations, including both research institutions and professional associations, conducted studies in attempts to resolve the educational problems in the engineering field. Though they conducted their research independently, they arrived at several common conclusions. Researchers agreed that the engineering schools should continue to provide solid basic theory knowledge. However, they also called for added emphasis on synthesis and design understanding as well as increased exposure to societal context and interdisciplinary teamwork. Later reports reiterated the need for more exposure to engineering's context as well as a need to make engineering more attractive and relevant to students. Papers also reported the need for engineering students to develop professional and interpersonal skills.\n\nToday, requirements for engineering programs reflect a movement to resolve the engineering education problems found in past studies. Many engineering educators see service-learning as a way to enhance their programs by exposing students to engineering context while also giving them a chance to develop professional and interpersonal skills. These values are reflected in the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) standards for engineering schools. For an engineering program to maintain accreditation, ABET requires that they \"demonstrate that their students attain the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context\".\n\n\nThe service-learning method ties in well with a teaching philosophy known as constructivism. Constructivism is an educational theory rooted in psychology and sociology. It asserts that learners construct knowledge from previous knowledge rather than passively absorbing knowledge from outside sources. Furthermore, learning includes both creation of new factual knowledge and understanding the connections between different nodes of knowledge. Service-learning provides an environment where students can actively construct knowledge while engaging in actual projects. The reflection portion of service-learning gives students time to create connections between old and new knowledge. \n\nWhile accepted by many, some educators have criticized constructivism both epistemologically and pedagogically. Pedagogically, critics claim that a constructivist approach gives students in-depth knowledge but not breadth of knowledge. Since in a constructivist approach takes a significant amount of time to allow students to create new knowledge and relate it to previous knowledge through reflection, instructors usually cannot cover a large amount of material. However, while this may become a real concern for many courses, the specific role of service-learning plays in engineering school courses mitigates these concerns. Service-learning typically appears in introductory or optional courses in the engineering school. The goals of these courses is not so much to gain a detailed and broad understand of a field, but rather to have a real world engineering experience. This is notably different from courses where students must obtain vast amounts of accurate knowledge for precise calculations.\n\nCritics also worry that a constructivist approach to education leaves the learner too disconnected from reality since it constantly focuses on building new knowledge based on pre-existing knowledge. Thus, theoretically, as they continue building knowledge off of their pre-existing knowledge in isolation, their view of the world could slowly become skewed from reality. While this may be a weakness for many courses, in service-learning, students work to create real solutions for a real customer. Thus their ideas must be resolved, not only with fellow engineering team members, but also with reality. \n\n\nIn past years, studies on engineering education revealed the learning styles of most engineering students and the teaching styles of many engineering professors were incompatible. The five well known learning style dimensions include: sensing/intuitive, visual/auditory, inductive/deductive, active/reflective, and global/sequential. \n\nAccording to Richard Felder from North Carolina State University and Linda Silverman from the Institute for the study of Advanced Development, most engineering students are visual, sensing, inductive, and active learners. Also, many of the creative students are global learners. However, most engineering education is auditory, intuitive, deductive, passive and sequential.\n\nHowever, such conclusions are not well-supported by research. There is no evidence that identifying a student's learning style produces better outcomes, and there is significant evidence that the widespread \"meshing hypothesis\" (that a student will learn best if taught in a method deemed appropriate for the student's learning style) is invalid. Well-designed studies \"flatly contradict the popular meshing hypothesis\".\n\n\nThough the interest in service learning at educational institutions has increased, these projects are often very costly to students and universities. However, there have been some examples of successful service learning projects facilitated over the Internet.\n\nMany different universities have incorporated service-learning into their curricula to address the contextual, motivational, and multi-disciplinary team needs. Purdue University created the Engineering Projects in Community Service (EPICS) program in 1995. Under this program, freshman to senior undergraduate engineering students form multi-disciplinary teams to meet community needs. Students earn a variable number of credit hours based on their year in school and related contribution to the project. At Purdue, the service projects are long-term and students earn up to seven semesters worth of credit working on the service project. The program began with 40 students on 5 teams but has quickly grown to 400 students on 24 teams.\n\nThe EPICS program at Purdue as well as service-learning programs at other universities, have succeeded in offering students practical experience, context, and motivation for engineering. Seventy seven percent of the students who were able to come back to the EPICS program stayed for additional semesters. On student evaluations, 70% of students indicated that the program positively impacted their decision to stay in engineering; of the 30% that responded differently, several indicated they had previously decided to stay in the engineering before the program and thus, the program did not affect their decision to stay in engineering. Student responses also returned favorable results for the educational objectives. The table below summarizes the responses:\n\nOn evaluation comments, students also expressed that EPICS had completely changed their view of engineering, giving them both meaning and direction in all of their engineering studies.\n\nPenn State University has created a certificate program entitled 'Humanitarian Engineering'. The emphasis of the program is on relationship building – and are not simply project-driven exercises. Long-term, sustainable, collaborative partnerships are formed with host universities and marginalized communities. This enables development of outreach programs at the universities reaching into local communities. The Penn State program is vertically integrated across the four-year engineering program allowing students to form these long-term relationships with the host communities. This method allows for greater understanding of the cultural aspects of engineering design and its impact, as well as development of technical proficiency. There is also a very strong emphasis on entrepreneurship in the program. Engineering design solutions are developed and students are encouraged to develop business plans and implement them in the host community.\\\n\nClemson University also hosts Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries (CEDC), a multi-level immersive student-led organization and class that provides Clemson students of any major with service-learning and project experience. The focus of the program is to provide sustainable solutions aimed at improving the quality of life for those living in the emerging world while using students for all design, planning, and project implementation. CEDC has a student-led corporate organizational structure, including vertical integration from freshmen to graduate students and horizontal integration from over 30 majors, and works on between 15 and 20 projects per semester. The program also features multidisciplinary teams of 2–4 student interns who live in Haiti year- round, fall and spring break trips to Haiti for groups of 10–14 students to collect data for their projects, and a course at Clemson University for students to work on their multi-semester projects. The program has designed and managed over $2 million in construction projects in Haiti, all with direct oversight and management from the CEDC interns who are housed by Partners in Health. To date, CEDC students have implemented projects all over Haiti's rural Central Plateau (including several in Cange), which include several water systems, a fish hatchery, a biodigester system, and repairing public schools. \n\nThe ACM Code of Ethics lists contributing to society and human well-being as well as improving public understanding of an engineer's practice area. Through service-learning provides engineers with the opportunity to both contribute to society and educate the public. \n\nAlong with fostering a good community-university relationship, educators hope incorporating service-learning will increase diversity and retention in the engineering school. Diversifying the engineering population will allow engineering teams to maintain a better understanding of the needs in a society. So diversifying engineering teams will allow engineers to both meet real needs as well as provide interfaces to their solutions which the public can understand. Likewise, a society needs a vast population of engineers to meet the needs of a vast society.\n\n"}
{"id": "15582558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15582558", "title": "Sexual field", "text": "Sexual field\n\nA sexual field is an arena of social life wherein individuals seek intimate partners and vie for sexual status. Sexual fields emerge \"when a subset of actors with potential romantic or sexual interest orient themselves toward one another according to a logic of desirability imminent to their collective relations and this logic produces, to greater and lesser degrees, a system of stratification\" (Green 2014:27). The term builds on Pierre Bourdieu's (1980) concept of field and has been defined as a \"set of interlocking institutions\" (Martin and George 2006) and an \"institutionalized matrix of relations\" (Green 2005, 2008, 2011) that confers status upon sexual actors based on individual variation in sexual capital. Relative to those with a sexual capital deficit, actors in possession of sexual capital reap the rewards of the sexual field—including the ability to select desired sexual partners and the acquisition of social significance. \n\nSexual fields are themselves distinguished by distinct \"currencies of erotic capital\" (Green 2005, 2008), the latter which are quite variable, acquiring dominance in relation to the collective preferences of players. For example, Green (2005, 2008) argues that the characteristics which confer sexual capital in one field may not in another. Thus, in a gay leather bar, a bearded, stocky white man in his late-thirties dressed in Levi's jeans and a leather jacket will possess an optimal form of sexual capital, whereas the same man in a swanky Martini bar catering to a twenty-something, high-fashion, urban gay customer base will face a sexual capital deficit. This variation in power and status occurs because a gay leather bar and a gay Martini bar are physical sites organized by the logic of two distinct sexual fields with contrasting currencies of sexual capital (Green 2005, 2008)—i.e., distinct \"hegemonic systems of judgment\" (Martin and George 2006). \n\nFor sociological theory, the study of the sexual field in the sexual fields framework offers a framework for analyzing how collective attributions of desire and desirability are shaped by the sexual field itself. That is, rather than see desire and desirability as a simple function of individual wants and judgments, the sexual fields framework suggests that such wants and judgments are the consequence of sexual social life. In this approach, the sexual field acts back on what we find desirable such that desires and desirability are regarded as field effects (Green 2014). \n\nTo the extent that sexual stratification is related to but not isomorphic with the structure of alternative fields, so the study of sexual fields cannot be subsumed to the study of an economic or political field, for example. Nevertheless, to the extent that race, class, gender, ethnicity, age and ability, among others, are organizing features of sexual status within a given sexual field, so the relationship of sexual fields to broader historical systems of stratification requires consideration (Green 2005, 2008, 2011. 2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28617", "title": "Statue of Liberty", "text": "Statue of Liberty\n\nThe Statue of Liberty (Liberty Enlightening the World; ) is a colossal neoclassical sculpture on Liberty Island in New York Harbor in New York City, in the United States. The copper statue, a gift from the people of France to the people of the United States, was designed by French sculptor Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi and built by Gustave Eiffel. The statue was dedicated on October 28, 1886.\n\nThe Statue of Liberty is a figure of Libertas, a robed Roman liberty goddess. She holds a torch above her head with her right hand, and in her left hand carries a \"tabula ansata\" inscribed in Roman numerals with \"JULY IV MDCCLXXVI\" (July 4, 1776), the date of the U.S. Declaration of Independence. A broken chain lies at her feet as she walks forward. The statue became an icon of freedom and of the United States, a national park tourism destination, and is a welcoming sight to immigrants arriving from abroad.\n\nBartholdi was inspired by a French law professor and politician, Édouard René de Laboulaye, who is said to have commented in 1865 that any monument raised to U.S. independence would properly be a joint project of the French and U.S. peoples. Because of the post-war instability in France, work on the statue did not commence until the early 1870s. In 1875, Laboulaye proposed that the French finance the statue and the U.S. provide the site and build the pedestal. Bartholdi completed the head and the torch-bearing arm before the statue was fully designed, and these pieces were exhibited for publicity at international expositions.\n\nThe torch-bearing arm was displayed at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876, and in Madison Square Park in Manhattan from 1876 to 1882. Fundraising proved difficult, especially for the Americans, and by 1885 work on the pedestal was threatened by lack of funds. Publisher Joseph Pulitzer, of the \"New York World\", started a drive for donations to finish the project and attracted more than 120,000 contributors, most of whom gave less than a dollar. The statue was built in France, shipped overseas in crates, and assembled on the completed pedestal on what was then called Bedloe's Island. The statue's completion was marked by New York's first ticker-tape parade and a dedication ceremony presided over by President Grover Cleveland.\n\nThe statue was administered by the United States Lighthouse Board until 1901 and then by the Department of War; since 1933 it has been maintained by the National Park Service. Public access to the balcony around the torch has been barred for safety since 1916.\n\nAccording to the National Park Service, the idea for the Statue of Liberty was first proposed by Édouard René de Laboulaye, president of the French Anti-Slavery Society and a prominent and important political thinker of his time. The project is traced to a mid-1865 conversation between de Laboulaye, a staunch abolitionist, and Frédéric Bartholdi, a sculptor. In after-dinner conversation at his home near Versailles, Laboulaye, an ardent supporter of the Union in the American Civil War, is supposed to have said: \"If a monument should rise in the United States, as a memorial to their independence, I should think it only natural if it were built by united effort—a common work of both our nations.\" The National Park Service, in a 2000 report, however, deemed this a legend traced to an 1885 fundraising pamphlet, and that the statue was most likely conceived in 1870. In another essay on their website, the Park Service suggested that Laboulaye was minded to honor the Union victory and its consequences, \"With the abolition of slavery and the Union's victory in the Civil War in 1865, Laboulaye's wishes of freedom and democracy were turning into a reality in the United States. In order to honor these achievements, Laboulaye proposed that a gift be built for the United States on behalf of France. Laboulaye hoped that by calling attention to the recent achievements of the United States, the French people would be inspired to call for their own democracy in the face of a repressive monarchy.\"\n\nAccording to sculptor Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi, who later recounted the story, Laboulaye's comment was not intended as a proposal, but it inspired Bartholdi. Given the repressive nature of the regime of Napoleon III, Bartholdi took no immediate action on the idea except to discuss it with Laboulaye. Bartholdi was in any event busy with other possible projects; in the late 1860s, he approached Isma'il Pasha, Khedive of Egypt, with a plan to build \"Progress\" or \"Egypt Carrying the Light to Asia\", a huge lighthouse in the form of an ancient Egyptian female \"fellah\" or peasant, robed and holding a torch aloft, at the northern entrance to the Suez Canal in Port Said. Sketches and models were made of the proposed work, though it was never erected. There was a classical precedent for the Suez proposal, the Colossus of Rhodes: an ancient bronze statue of the Greek god of the sun, Helios. This statue is believed to have been over high, and it similarly stood at a harbor entrance and carried a light to guide ships. Both the khedive and Lesseps declined the proposed statue from Bartholdi, citing the expensive cost. The Port Said Lighthouse was built instead, by François Coignet in 1869.\n\nAny large project was further delayed by the Franco-Prussian War, in which Bartholdi served as a major of militia. In the war, Napoleon III was captured and deposed. Bartholdi's home province of Alsace was lost to the Prussians, and a more liberal republic was installed in France. As Bartholdi had been planning a trip to the United States, he and Laboulaye decided the time was right to discuss the idea with influential Americans. In June 1871, Bartholdi crossed the Atlantic, with letters of introduction signed by Laboulaye.\n\nArriving at New York Harbor, Bartholdi focused on Bedloe's Island (now named Liberty Island) as a site for the statue, struck by the fact that vessels arriving in New York had to sail past it. He was delighted to learn that the island was owned by the United States government—it had been ceded by the New York State Legislature in 1800 for harbor defense. It was thus, as he put it in a letter to Laboulaye: \"land common to all the states.\" As well as meeting many influential New Yorkers, Bartholdi visited President Ulysses S. Grant, who assured him that it would not be difficult to obtain the site for the statue. Bartholdi crossed the United States twice by rail, and met many Americans who he thought would be sympathetic to the project. But he remained concerned that popular opinion on both sides of the Atlantic was insufficiently supportive of the proposal, and he and Laboulaye decided to wait before mounting a public campaign.\n\nBartholdi had made a first model of his concept in 1870. The son of a friend of Bartholdi's, U.S. artist John LaFarge, later maintained that Bartholdi made the first sketches for the statue during his U.S. visit at La Farge's Rhode Island studio. Bartholdi continued to develop the concept following his return to France. He also worked on a number of sculptures designed to bolster French patriotism after the defeat by the Prussians. One of these was the \"Lion of Belfort\", a monumental sculpture carved in sandstone below the fortress of Belfort, which during the war had resisted a Prussian siege for over three months. The defiant lion, long and half that in height, displays an emotional quality characteristic of Romanticism, which Bartholdi would later bring to the Statue of Liberty.\n\nBartholdi and Laboulaye considered how best to express the idea of American liberty. In early American history, two female figures were frequently used as cultural symbols of the nation. One of these symbols, the personified Columbia, was seen as an embodiment of the United States in the manner that Britannia was identified with the United Kingdom and Marianne came to represent France. Columbia had supplanted the earlier figure of an Indian princess, which had come to be regarded as uncivilized and derogatory toward Americans. The other significant female icon in American culture was a representation of Liberty, derived from Libertas, the goddess of freedom widely worshipped in ancient Rome, especially among emancipated slaves. A Liberty figure adorned most American coins of the time, and representations of Liberty appeared in popular and civic art, including Thomas Crawford's \"Statue of Freedom\" (1863) atop the dome of the United States Capitol Building.\n\nArtists of the 18th and 19th centuries striving to evoke republican ideals commonly used representations of Libertas as an allegorical symbol. A figure of Liberty was also depicted on the Great Seal of France. However, Bartholdi and Laboulaye avoided an image of revolutionary liberty such as that depicted in Eugène Delacroix's famed \"Liberty Leading the People\" (1830). In this painting, which commemorates France's July Revolution, a half-clothed Liberty leads an armed mob over the bodies of the fallen. Laboulaye had no sympathy for revolution, and so Bartholdi's figure would be fully dressed in flowing robes. Instead of the impression of violence in the Delacroix work, Bartholdi wished to give the statue a peaceful appearance and chose a torch, representing progress, for the figure to hold.\n\nCrawford's statue was designed in the early 1850s. It was originally to be crowned with a \"pileus\", the cap given to emancipated slaves in ancient Rome. Secretary of War Jefferson Davis, a Southerner who would later serve as President of the Confederate States of America, was concerned that the \"pileus\" would be taken as an abolitionist symbol. He ordered that it be changed to a helmet.\nDelacroix's figure wears a \"pileus\", and Bartholdi at first considered placing one on his figure as well. Instead, he used a diadem, or crown, to top its head. In so doing, he avoided a reference to Marianne, who invariably wears a \"pileus\". The seven rays form a halo or aureole. They evoke the sun, the seven seas, and the seven continents, and represent another means, besides the torch, whereby Liberty enlightens the world.\n\nBartholdi's early models were all similar in concept: a female figure in neoclassical style representing liberty, wearing a \"stola\" and \"pella\" (gown and cloak, common in depictions of Roman goddesses) and holding a torch aloft. According to popular accounts, the face was modeled after that of Charlotte Beysser Bartholdi, the sculptor's mother, but Regis Huber, the curator of the Bartholdi Museum is on record as saying that this, as well as other similar speculations, have no basis in fact. He designed the figure with a strong, uncomplicated silhouette, which would be set off well by its dramatic harbor placement and allow passengers on vessels entering New York Bay to experience a changing perspective on the statue as they proceeded toward Manhattan. He gave it bold classical contours and applied simplified modeling, reflecting the huge scale of the project and its solemn purpose. Bartholdi wrote of his technique:\n\nBartholdi made alterations in the design as the project evolved. Bartholdi considered having Liberty hold a broken chain, but decided this would be too divisive in the days after the Civil War. The erected statue does stride over a broken chain, half-hidden by her robes and difficult to see from the ground. Bartholdi was initially uncertain of what to place in Liberty's left hand; he settled on a \"tabula ansata\", used to evoke the concept of law. Though Bartholdi greatly admired the United States Constitution, he chose to inscribe \"JULY IV MDCCLXXVI\" on the tablet, thus associating the date of the country's Declaration of Independence with the concept of liberty.\n\nBartholdi interested his friend and mentor, architect Eugène Viollet-le-Duc, in the project. As chief engineer, Viollet-le-Duc designed a brick pier within the statue, to which the skin would be anchored.\nAfter consultations with the metalwork foundry Gaget, Gauthier & Co., Viollet-le-Duc chose the metal which would be used for the skin, copper sheets, and the method used to shape it, repoussé, in which the sheets were heated and then struck with wooden hammers. An advantage of this choice was that the entire statue would be light for its volume, as the copper need be only thick. Bartholdi had decided on a height of just over for the statue, double that of Italy's Sancarlone and the German statue of Arminius, both made with the same method.\n\nBy 1875, France was enjoying improved political stability and a recovering postwar economy. Growing interest in the upcoming Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia led Laboulaye to decide it was time to seek public support. In September 1875, he announced the project and the formation of the Franco-American Union as its fundraising arm. With the announcement, the statue was given a name, \"Liberty Enlightening the World\". The French would finance the statue; Americans would be expected to pay for the pedestal. The announcement provoked a generally favorable reaction in France, though many Frenchmen resented the United States for not coming to their aid during the war with Prussia. French monarchists opposed the statue, if for no other reason than it was proposed by the liberal Laboulaye, who had recently been elected a senator for life. Laboulaye arranged events designed to appeal to the rich and powerful, including a special performance at the Paris Opera on April 25, 1876, that featured a new cantata by composer Charles Gounod. The piece was titled \"La Liberté éclairant le monde\", the French version of the statue's announced name.\nInitially focused on the elites, the Union was successful in raising funds from across French society. Schoolchildren and ordinary citizens gave, as did 181 French municipalities. Laboulaye's political allies supported the call, as did descendants of the French contingent in the American Revolutionary War. Less idealistically, contributions came from those who hoped for American support in the French attempt to build the Panama Canal. The copper may have come from multiple sources and some of it is said to have come from a mine in Visnes, Norway, though this has not been conclusively determined after testing samples. According to Cara Sutherland in her book on the statue for the Museum of the City of New York, was needed to build the statue, and the French copper industrialist Eugène Secrétan donated of copper.\n\nAlthough plans for the statue had not been finalized, Bartholdi moved forward with fabrication of the right arm, bearing the torch, and the head. Work began at the Gaget, Gauthier & Co. workshop. In May 1876, Bartholdi traveled to the United States as a member of a French delegation to the Centennial Exhibition, and arranged for a huge painting of the statue to be shown in New York as part of the Centennial festivities. The arm did not arrive in Philadelphia until August; because of its late arrival, it was not listed in the exhibition catalogue, and while some reports correctly identified the work, others called it the \"Colossal Arm\" or \"Bartholdi Electric Light\". The exhibition grounds contained a number of monumental artworks to compete for fairgoers' interest, including an outsized fountain designed by Bartholdi. Nevertheless, the arm proved popular in the exhibition's waning days, and visitors would climb up to the balcony of the torch to view the fairgrounds. After the exhibition closed, the arm was transported to New York, where it remained on display in Madison Square Park for several years before it was returned to France to join the rest of the statue.\n\nDuring his second trip to the United States, Bartholdi addressed a number of groups about the project, and urged the formation of American committees of the Franco-American Union. Committees to raise money to pay for the foundation and pedestal were formed in New York, Boston, and Philadelphia. The New York group eventually took on most of the responsibility for American fundraising and is often referred to as the \"American Committee\". One of its members was 19-year-old Theodore Roosevelt, the future governor of New York and president of the United States. On March 3, 1877, on his final full day in office, President Grant signed a joint resolution that authorized the President to accept the statue when it was presented by France and to select a site for it. President Rutherford B. Hayes, who took office the following day, selected the Bedloe's Island site that Bartholdi had proposed.\n\nOn his return to Paris in 1877, Bartholdi concentrated on completing the head, which was exhibited at the 1878 Paris World's Fair. Fundraising continued, with models of the statue put on sale. Tickets to view the construction activity at the Gaget, Gauthier & Co. workshop were also offered. The French government authorized a lottery; among the prizes were valuable silver plate and a terracotta model of the statue. By the end of 1879, about 250,000 francs had been raised.\n\nThe head and arm had been built with assistance from Viollet-le-Duc, who fell ill in 1879. He soon died, leaving no indication of how he intended to transition from the copper skin to his proposed masonry pier. The following year, Bartholdi was able to obtain the services of the innovative designer and builder Gustave Eiffel. Eiffel and his structural engineer, Maurice Koechlin, decided to abandon the pier and instead build an iron truss tower. Eiffel opted not to use a completely rigid structure, which would force stresses to accumulate in the skin and lead eventually to cracking. A secondary skeleton was attached to the center pylon, then, to enable the statue to move slightly in the winds of New York Harbor and as the metal expanded on hot summer days, he loosely connected the support structure to the skin using flat iron bars which culminated in a mesh of metal straps, known as \"saddles\", that were riveted to the skin, providing firm support. In a labor-intensive process, each saddle had to be crafted individually. To prevent galvanic corrosion between the copper skin and the iron support structure, Eiffel insulated the skin with asbestos impregnated with shellac.\n\nEiffel's design made the statue one of the earliest examples of curtain wall construction, in which the exterior of the structure is not load bearing, but is instead supported by an interior framework. He included two interior spiral staircases, to make it easier for visitors to reach the observation point in the crown. Access to an observation platform surrounding the torch was also provided, but the narrowness of the arm allowed for only a single ladder, long. As the pylon tower arose, Eiffel and Bartholdi coordinated their work carefully so that completed segments of skin would fit exactly on the support structure. The components of the pylon tower were built in the Eiffel factory in the nearby Parisian suburb of Levallois-Perret.\n\nThe change in structural material from masonry to iron allowed Bartholdi to change his plans for the statue's assembly. He had originally expected to assemble the skin on-site as the masonry pier was built; instead he decided to build the statue in France and have it disassembled and transported to the United States for reassembly in place on Bedloe's Island.\n\nIn a symbolic act, the first rivet placed into the skin, fixing a copper plate onto the statue's big toe, was driven by United States Ambassador to France Levi P. Morton. The skin was not, however, crafted in exact sequence from low to high; work proceeded on a number of segments simultaneously in a manner often confusing to visitors. Some work was performed by contractors—one of the fingers was made to Bartholdi's exacting specifications by a coppersmith in the southern French town of Montauban. By 1882, the statue was complete up to the waist, an event Barthodi celebrated by inviting reporters to lunch on a platform built within the statue. Laboulaye died in 1883. He was succeeded as chairman of the French committee by Ferdinand de Lesseps, builder of the Suez Canal. The completed statue was formally presented to Ambassador Morton at a ceremony in Paris on July 4, 1884, and de Lesseps announced that the French government had agreed to pay for its transport to New York. The statue remained intact in Paris pending sufficient progress on the pedestal; by January 1885, this had occurred and the statue was disassembled and crated for its ocean voyage.\n\nThe committees in the United States faced great difficulties in obtaining funds for the construction of the pedestal. The Panic of 1873 had led to an economic depression that persisted through much of the decade. The Liberty statue project was not the only such undertaking that had difficulty raising money: construction of the obelisk later known as the Washington Monument sometimes stalled for years; it would ultimately take over three-and-a-half decades to complete. There was criticism both of Bartholdi's statue and of the fact that the gift required Americans to foot the bill for the pedestal. In the years following the Civil War, most Americans preferred realistic artworks depicting heroes and events from the nation's history, rather than allegorical works like the Liberty statue. There was also a feeling that Americans should design American public works—the selection of Italian-born Constantino Brumidi to decorate the Capitol had provoked intense criticism, even though he was a naturalized U.S. citizen. \"Harper's Weekly\" declared its wish that \"M. Bartholdi and our French cousins had 'gone the whole figure' while they were about it, and given us statue and pedestal at once.\" \"The New York Times\" stated that \"no true patriot can countenance any such expenditures for bronze females in the present state of our finances.\" Faced with these criticisms, the American committees took little action for several years.\n\nThe foundation of Bartholdi's statue was to be laid inside Fort Wood, a disused army base on Bedloe's Island constructed between 1807 and 1811. Since 1823, it had rarely been used, though during the Civil War, it had served as a recruiting station. The fortifications of the structure were in the shape of an eleven-point star. The statue's foundation and pedestal were aligned so that it would face southeast, greeting ships entering the harbor from the Atlantic Ocean.\nIn 1881, the New York committee commissioned Richard Morris Hunt to design the pedestal. Within months, Hunt submitted a detailed plan, indicating that he expected construction to take about nine months. He proposed a pedestal in height; faced with money problems, the committee reduced that to .\n\nHunt's pedestal design contains elements of classical architecture, including Doric portals, as well as some elements influenced by Aztec architecture. The large mass is fragmented with architectural detail, in order to focus attention on the statue. In form, it is a truncated pyramid, square at the base and at the top. The four sides are identical in appearance. Above the door on each side, there are ten disks upon which Bartholdi proposed to place the coats of arms of the states (between 1876 and 1889, there were 38 U.S. states), although this was not done. Above that, a balcony was placed on each side, framed by pillars. Bartholdi placed an observation platform near the top of the pedestal, above which the statue itself rises. According to author Louis Auchincloss, the pedestal \"craggily evokes the power of an ancient Europe over which rises the dominating figure of the Statue of Liberty\". The committee hired former army General Charles Pomeroy Stone to oversee the construction work. Construction on the foundation began in 1883, and the pedestal's cornerstone was laid in 1884. In Hunt's original conception, the pedestal was to have been made of solid granite. Financial concerns again forced him to revise his plans; the final design called for poured concrete walls, up to thick, faced with granite blocks. This Stony Creek granite came from the Beattie Quarry in Branford, Connecticut. The concrete mass was the largest poured to that time.\n\nNorwegian immigrant civil engineer Joachim Goschen Giæver designed the structural framework for the Statue of Liberty. His work involved design computations, detailed fabrication and construction drawings, and oversight of construction. In completing his engineering for the statue's frame, Giæver worked from drawings and sketches produced by Gustave Eiffel.\n\nFundraising for the statue had begun in 1882. The committee organized a large number of money-raising events. As part of one such effort, an auction of art and manuscripts, poet Emma Lazarus was asked to donate an original work. She initially declined, stating she could not write a poem about a statue. At the time, she was also involved in aiding refugees to New York who had fled anti-Semitic pogroms in eastern Europe. These refugees were forced to live in conditions that the wealthy Lazarus had never experienced. She saw a way to express her empathy for these refugees in terms of the statue. The resulting sonnet, \"The New Colossus\", including the iconic lines \"Give me your tired, your poor/Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free\", is uniquely identified with the Statue of Liberty and is inscribed on a plaque in the museum in its base.\n\nEven with these efforts, fundraising lagged. Grover Cleveland, the governor of New York, vetoed a bill to provide $50,000 for the statue project in 1884. An attempt the next year to have Congress provide $100,000, sufficient to complete the project, also failed. The New York committee, with only $3,000 in the bank, suspended work on the pedestal. With the project in jeopardy, groups from other American cities, including Boston and Philadelphia, offered to pay the full cost of erecting the statue in return for relocating it.\n\nJoseph Pulitzer, publisher of the \"New York World\", a New York newspaper, announced a drive to raise $100,000—the equivalent of $2.3 million today. Pulitzer pledged to print the name of every contributor, no matter how small the amount given. The drive captured the imagination of New Yorkers, especially when Pulitzer began publishing the notes he received from contributors. \"A young girl alone in the world\" donated \"60 cents, the result of self denial.\" One donor gave \"five cents as a poor office boy's mite toward the Pedestal Fund.\" A group of children sent a dollar as \"the money we saved to go to the circus with.\" Another dollar was given by a \"lonely and very aged woman.\" Residents of a home for alcoholics in New York's rival city of Brooklyn—the cities would not merge until 1898—donated $15; other drinkers helped out through donation boxes in bars and saloons. A kindergarten class in Davenport, Iowa, mailed the \"World\" a gift of $1.35. As the donations flooded in, the committee resumed work on the pedestal.\n\nOn June 17, 1885, the French steamer \"Isère\", arrived in New York with the crates holding the disassembled statue on board. New Yorkers displayed their new-found enthusiasm for the statue. Two hundred thousand people lined the docks and hundreds of boats put to sea to welcome the ship. After five months of daily calls to donate to the statue fund, on August 11, 1885, the \"World\" announced that $102,000 had been raised from 120,000 donors, and that 80 percent of the total had been received in sums of less than one dollar.\n\nEven with the success of the fund drive, the pedestal was not completed until April 1886. Immediately thereafter, reassembly of the statue began. Eiffel's iron framework was anchored to steel I-beams within the concrete pedestal and assembled. Once this was done, the sections of skin were carefully attached. Due to the width of the pedestal, it was not possible to erect scaffolding, and workers dangled from ropes while installing the skin sections. Nevertheless, no one died during the construction. Bartholdi had planned to put floodlights on the torch's balcony to illuminate it; a week before the dedication, the Army Corps of Engineers vetoed the proposal, fearing that ships' pilots passing the statue would be blinded. Instead, Bartholdi cut portholes in the torch—which was covered with gold leaf—and placed the lights inside them. A power plant was installed on the island to light the torch and for other electrical needs. After the skin was completed, renowned landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted, co-designer of New York's Central Park and Brooklyn's Prospect Park, supervised a cleanup of Bedloe's Island in anticipation of the dedication.\n\nA ceremony of dedication was held on the afternoon of October 28, 1886. President Grover Cleveland, the former New York governor, presided over the event. On the morning of the dedication, a parade was held in New York City; estimates of the number of people who watched it ranged from several hundred thousand to a million. President Cleveland headed the procession, then stood in the reviewing stand to see bands and marchers from across America. General Stone was the grand marshal of the parade. The route began at Madison Square, once the venue for the arm, and proceeded to the Battery at the southern tip of Manhattan by way of Fifth Avenue and Broadway, with a slight detour so the parade could pass in front of the \"World\" building on Park Row. As the parade passed the New York Stock Exchange, traders threw ticker tape from the windows, beginning the New York tradition of the ticker-tape parade.\n\nA nautical parade began at 12:45 p.m., and President Cleveland embarked on a yacht that took him across the harbor to Bedloe's Island for the dedication. De Lesseps made the first speech, on behalf of the French committee, followed by the chairman of the New York committee, Senator William M. Evarts. A French flag draped across the statue's face was to be lowered to unveil the statue at the close of Evarts's speech, but Bartholdi mistook a pause as the conclusion and let the flag fall prematurely. The ensuing cheers put an end to Evarts's address. President Cleveland spoke next, stating that the statue's \"stream of light shall pierce the darkness of ignorance and man's oppression until Liberty enlightens the world\". Bartholdi, observed near the dais, was called upon to speak, but he declined. Orator Chauncey M. Depew concluded the speechmaking with a lengthy address.\n\nNo members of the general public were permitted on the island during the ceremonies, which were reserved entirely for dignitaries. The only females granted access were Bartholdi's wife and de Lesseps's granddaughter; officials stated that they feared women might be injured in the crush of people. The restriction offended area suffragists, who chartered a boat and got as close as they could to the island. The group's leaders made speeches applauding the embodiment of Liberty as a woman and advocating women's right to vote. A scheduled fireworks display was postponed until November 1 because of poor weather.\n\nShortly after the dedication, \"The Cleveland Gazette\", an African American newspaper, suggested that the statue's torch not be lit until the United States became a free nation \"in reality\":\n\nWhen the torch was illuminated on the evening of the statue's dedication, it produced only a faint gleam, barely visible from Manhattan. The \"World\" characterized it as \"more like a glowworm than a beacon.\" Bartholdi suggested gilding the statue to increase its ability to reflect light, but this proved too expensive. The United States Lighthouse Board took over the Statue of Liberty in 1887 and pledged to install equipment to enhance the torch's effect; in spite of its efforts, the statue remained virtually invisible at night. When Bartholdi returned to the United States in 1893, he made additional suggestions, all of which proved ineffective. He did successfully lobby for improved lighting within the statue, allowing visitors to better appreciate Eiffel's design. In 1901, President Theodore Roosevelt, once a member of the New York committee, ordered the statue's transfer to the War Department, as it had proved useless as a lighthouse. A unit of the Army Signal Corps was stationed on Bedloe's Island until 1923, after which military police remained there while the island was under military jurisdiction.\n\nThe statue rapidly became a landmark. Many immigrants who entered through New York saw it as a welcoming sight. Oral histories of immigrants record their feelings of exhilaration on first viewing the Statue of Liberty. One immigrant who arrived from Greece recalled:\n\nOriginally, the statue was a dull copper color, but shortly after 1900 a green patina, also called verdigris, caused by the oxidation of the copper skin, began to spread. As early as 1902 it was mentioned in the press; by 1906 it had entirely covered the statue. Believing that the patina was evidence of corrosion, Congress authorized for various repairs, and to paint the statue both inside and out. There was considerable public protest against the proposed exterior painting. The Army Corps of Engineers studied the patina for any ill effects to the statue and concluded that it protected the skin, \"softened the outlines of the Statue and made it beautiful.\" The statue was painted only on the inside. The Corps of Engineers also installed an elevator to take visitors from the base to the top of the pedestal.\n\nOn July 30, 1916, during World War I, German saboteurs set off a disastrous explosion on the Black Tom peninsula in Jersey City, New Jersey, in what is now part of Liberty State Park, close to Bedloe's Island. Carloads of dynamite and other explosives that were being sent to Britain and France for their war efforts were detonated, and seven people were killed. The statue sustained minor damage, mostly to the torch-bearing right arm, and was closed for ten days. The cost to repair the statue and buildings on the island was about . The narrow ascent to the torch was closed for public-safety reasons, and it has remained closed ever since.\n\nThat same year, Ralph Pulitzer, who had succeeded his father Joseph as publisher of the \"World\", began a drive to raise for an exterior lighting system to illuminate the statue at night. He claimed over 80,000 contributors, but failed to reach the goal. The difference was quietly made up by a gift from a wealthy donor—a fact that was not revealed until 1936. An underwater power cable brought electricity from the mainland and floodlights were placed along the walls of Fort Wood. Gutzon Borglum, who later sculpted Mount Rushmore, redesigned the torch, replacing much of the original copper with stained glass. On December 2, 1916, President Woodrow Wilson pressed the telegraph key that turned on the lights, successfully illuminating the statue.\n\nAfter the United States entered World War I in 1917, images of the statue were heavily used in both recruitment posters and the Liberty Bond drives that urged American citizens to support the war financially. This impressed upon the public the war's stated purpose—to secure liberty—and served as a reminder that embattled France had given the United States the statue.\n\nIn 1924, President Calvin Coolidge used his authority under the Antiquities Act to declare the statue a National Monument. The only successful suicide in the statue's history occurred five years later, when a man climbed out of one of the windows in the crown and jumped to his death, glancing off the statue's breast and landing on the base.\n\nIn 1933, President Franklin Roosevelt ordered the statue to be transferred to the National Park Service (NPS). In 1937, the NPS gained jurisdiction over the rest of Bedloe's Island. With the Army's departure, the NPS began to transform the island into a park. The Works Progress Administration (WPA) demolished most of the old buildings, regraded and reseeded the eastern end of the island, and built granite steps for a new public entrance to the statue from its rear. The WPA also carried out restoration work within the statue, temporarily removing the rays from the statue's halo so their rusted supports could be replaced. Rusted cast-iron steps in the pedestal were replaced with new ones made of reinforced concrete; the upper parts of the stairways within the statue were replaced, as well. Copper sheathing was installed to prevent further damage from rainwater that had been seeping into the pedestal. The statue was closed to the public from May until December 1938.\n\nDuring World War II, the statue remained open to visitors, although it was not illuminated at night due to wartime blackouts. It was lit briefly on December 31, 1943, and on D-Day, June 6, 1944, when its lights flashed \"dot-dot-dot-dash\", the Morse code for V, for victory. New, powerful lighting was installed in 1944–1945, and beginning on V-E Day, the statue was once again illuminated after sunset. The lighting was for only a few hours each evening, and it was not until 1957 that the statue was illuminated every night, all night. In 1946, the interior of the statue within reach of visitors was coated with a special plastic so that graffiti could be washed away.\n\nIn 1956, an Act of Congress officially renamed Bedloe's Island as Liberty Island, a change advocated by Bartholdi generations earlier. The act also mentioned the efforts to found an American Museum of Immigration on the island, which backers took as federal approval of the project, though the government was slow to grant funds for it. Nearby Ellis Island was made part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument by proclamation of President Lyndon Johnson in 1965. In 1972, the immigration museum, in the statue's base, was finally opened in a ceremony led by President Richard Nixon. The museum's backers never provided it with an endowment to secure its future and it closed in 1991 after the opening of an immigration museum on Ellis Island.\n\nIn 1970, Ivy Bottini led a demonstration at the statue where she and others from the National Organization for Women's New York chapter draped an enormous banner over a railing which read \"WOMEN OF THE WORLD UNITE!\"\n\nBeginning December 26, 1971, 15 anti-Vietnam War veterans occupied the statue, flying a US flag upside down from her crown. They left December 28 following a Federal Court order. The statue was also several times taken over briefly by demonstrators publicizing causes such as Puerto Rican independence, opposition to abortion, and opposition to US intervention in Grenada. Demonstrations with the permission of the Park Service included a Gay Pride Parade rally and the annual Captive Baltic Nations rally.\n\nA powerful new lighting system was installed in advance of the American Bicentennial in 1976. The statue was the focal point for Operation Sail, a regatta of tall ships from all over the world that entered New York Harbor on July 4, 1976, and sailed around Liberty Island. The day concluded with a spectacular display of fireworks near the statue.\n\nThe statue was examined in great detail by French and American engineers as part of the planning for its centennial in 1986. In 1982, it was announced that the statue was in need of considerable restoration. Careful study had revealed that the right arm had been improperly attached to the main structure. It was swaying more and more when strong winds blew and there was a significant risk of structural failure. In addition, the head had been installed off center, and one of the rays was wearing a hole in the right arm when the statue moved in the wind. The armature structure was badly corroded, and about two percent of the exterior plates needed to be replaced. Although problems with the armature had been recognized as early as 1936, when cast iron replacements for some of the bars had been installed, much of the corrosion had been hidden by layers of paint applied over the years.\n\nIn May 1982, President Ronald Reagan announced the formation of the Statue of Liberty–Ellis Island Centennial Commission, led by Chrysler Corporation chair Lee Iacocca, to raise the funds needed to complete the work. Through its fundraising arm, the Statue of Liberty–Ellis Island Foundation, Inc., the group raised more than $350 million in donations. The Statue of Liberty was one of the earliest beneficiaries of a cause marketing campaign. A 1983 promotion advertised that for each purchase made with an American Express card, the company would contribute one cent to the renovation of the statue. The campaign generated contributions of $1.7 million to the restoration project.\n\nIn 1984, the statue was closed to the public for the duration of the renovation. Workers erected the world's largest free-standing scaffold, which obscured the statue from view. Liquid nitrogen was used to remove layers of paint that had been applied to the interior of the copper skin over decades, leaving two layers of coal tar, originally applied to plug leaks and prevent corrosion. Blasting with baking soda powder removed the tar without further damaging the copper. The restorers' work was hampered by the asbestos-based substance that Bartholdi had used—ineffectively, as inspections showed—to prevent galvanic corrosion. Workers within the statue had to wear protective gear, dubbed \"moon suits\", with self-contained breathing circuits. Larger holes in the copper skin were repaired, and new copper was added where necessary. The replacement skin was taken from a copper rooftop at Bell Labs, which had a patina that closely resembled the statue's; in exchange, the laboratory was provided some of the old copper skin for testing. The torch, found to have been leaking water since the 1916 alterations, was replaced with an exact replica of Bartholdi's unaltered torch. Consideration was given to replacing the arm and shoulder; the National Park Service insisted that they be repaired instead. The original torch was removed and replaced in 1986 with the current one, whose flame is covered in 24-karat gold. The torch reflects the sun's rays in daytime and is lighted by floodlights at night.\nThe entire puddled iron armature designed by Gustave Eiffel was replaced. Low-carbon corrosion-resistant stainless steel bars that now hold the staples next to the skin are made of Ferralium, an alloy that bends slightly and returns to its original shape as the statue moves. To prevent the ray and arm making contact, the ray was realigned by several degrees. The lighting was again replaced—night-time illumination subsequently came from metal-halide lamps that send beams of light to particular parts of the pedestal or statue, showing off various details. Access to the pedestal, which had been through a nondescript entrance built in the 1960s, was renovated to create a wide opening framed by a set of monumental bronze doors with designs symbolic of the renovation. A modern elevator was installed, allowing handicapped access to the observation area of the pedestal. An emergency elevator was installed within the statue, reaching up to the level of the shoulder.\n\nJuly 3–6, 1986, was designated \"Liberty Weekend\", marking the centennial of the statue and its reopening. President Reagan presided over the rededication, with French President François Mitterrand in attendance. July 4 saw a reprise of Operation Sail, and the statue was reopened to the public on July 5. In Reagan's dedication speech, he stated, \"We are the keepers of the flame of liberty; we hold it high for the world to see.\"\n\nFollowing the September 11 attacks, the statue and Liberty Island were immediately closed to the public. The island reopened at the end of 2001, while the pedestal and statue remained off-limits. The pedestal reopened in August 2004, but the National Park Service announced that visitors could not safely be given access to the statue due to the difficulty of evacuation in an emergency. The Park Service adhered to that position through the remainder of the Bush administration. New York Congressman Anthony Weiner made the statue's reopening a personal crusade. On May 17, 2009, President Barack Obama's Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, announced that as a \"special gift\" to America, the statue would be reopened to the public as of July 4, but that only a limited number of people would be permitted to ascend to the crown each day.\n\nThe statue, including the pedestal and base, closed on October 29, 2011, for installation of new elevators and staircases and to bring other facilities, such as restrooms, up to code. The statue was reopened on October 28, 2012, only to close again a day later due to Hurricane Sandy. Although the storm did not harm the statue, it destroyed some of the infrastructure on both Liberty Island and Ellis Island, severely damaging the dock used by the ferries bearing visitors to the statue. On November 8, 2012, a Park Service spokesperson announced that both islands would remain closed for an indefinite period for repairs to be done. Due to lack of electricity on Liberty Island, a generator was installed to power temporary floodlights to illuminate the statue at night. The superintendent of Statue of Liberty National Monument, David Luchsinger, whose home on the island was severely damaged, stated that it would be \"optimistically ... months\" before the island was reopened to the public. The statue and Liberty Island reopened to the public on July 4, 2013. Ellis Island remained closed for repairs for several more months but reopened in late October 2013. For part of October 2013, Liberty Island was closed to the public due to the United States federal government shutdown of 2013, along with other federally funded museums, parks, monuments, construction projects and buildings. The statue and Liberty Island were briefly closed on July 4, 2018, due to a protester against American immigration policy climbing onto the statue.\nOn October 7, 2016, construction started on a new Statue of Liberty museum on Liberty Island. The new $70 million, museum will be able to accommodate all of the island's visitors when it opens in 2019, as opposed to the current museum, which only 20% of the island's visitors can visit.The museum, designed by FXFOWLE Architects, will integrate with the parkland around it. Von Fürstenberg heads the fundraising for the museum, and the project had garnered more than $40 million in fundraising as of groundbreaking.\n\nThe statue is situated in Upper New York Bay on Liberty Island south of Ellis Island, which together comprise the Statue of Liberty National Monument. Both islands were ceded by New York to the federal government in 1800. As agreed in an 1834 compact between New York and New Jersey that set the state border at the bay's midpoint, the original islands remain New York territory though located on the New Jersey side of the state line. Liberty Island is one of the islands that are part of the borough of Manhattan in New York. Land created by reclamation added to the original island at Ellis Island is New Jersey territory.\n\nNo charge is made for entrance to the national monument, but there is a cost for the ferry service that all visitors must use, as private boats may not dock at the island. A concession was granted in 2007 to Statue Cruises to operate the transportation and ticketing facilities, replacing Circle Line, which had operated the service since 1953.\nThe ferries, which depart from Liberty State Park in Jersey City and Battery Park in Lower Manhattan, also stop at Ellis Island when it is open to the public, making a combined trip possible. All ferry riders are subject to security screening, similar to airport procedures, prior to boarding. Visitors intending to enter the statue's base and pedestal must obtain a complimentary museum/pedestal ticket along with their ferry ticket. Those wishing to climb the staircase within the statue to the crown purchase a special ticket, which may be reserved up to a year in advance. A total of 240 people per day are permitted to ascend: ten per group, three groups per hour. Climbers may bring only medication and cameras—lockers are provided for other items—and must undergo a second security screening.\n\nThere are several plaques and dedicatory tablets on or near the Statue of Liberty.\n\nA group of statues stands at the western end of the island, honoring those closely associated with the Statue of Liberty. Two Americans—Pulitzer and Lazarus—and three Frenchmen—Bartholdi, Eiffel, and Laboulaye—are depicted. They are the work of Maryland sculptor Phillip Ratner.\n\nIn 1984, the Statue of Liberty was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The UNESCO \"Statement of Significance\" describes the statue as a \"masterpiece of the human spirit\" that \"endures as a highly potent symbol—inspiring contemplation, debate and protest—of ideals such as liberty, peace, human rights, abolition of slavery, democracy and opportunity.\"\n\nHundreds of replicas of the Statue of Liberty are displayed worldwide. A smaller version of the statue, one-fourth the height of the original, was given by the American community in Paris to that city. It now stands on the Île aux Cygnes, facing west toward her larger sister. A replica tall stood atop the Liberty Warehouse on West 64th Street in Manhattan for many years; it now resides at the Brooklyn Museum. In a patriotic tribute, the Boy Scouts of America, as part of their Strengthen the Arm of Liberty campaign in 1949–1952, donated about two hundred replicas of the statue, made of stamped copper and in height, to states and municipalities across the United States. Though not a true replica, the statue known as the Goddess of Democracy temporarily erected during the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 was similarly inspired by French democratic traditions—the sculptors took care to avoid a direct imitation of the Statue of Liberty. Among other recreations of New York City structures, a replica of the statue is part of the exterior of the New York-New York Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.\n\nAs an American icon, the Statue of Liberty has been depicted on the country's coinage and stamps. It appeared on commemorative coins issued to mark its 1986 centennial, and on New York's 2001 entry in the state quarters series. An image of the statue was chosen for the American Eagle platinum bullion coins in 1997, and it was placed on the reverse, or tails, side of the Presidential Dollar series of circulating coins. Two images of the statue's torch appear on the current ten-dollar bill. The statue's intended photographic depiction on a 2010 forever stamp proved instead to be of the replica at the Las Vegas casino.\n\nDepictions of the statue have been used by many regional institutions. Between 1986 and 2000, New York State issued license plates with an outline of the statue. The Women's National Basketball Association's New York Liberty use both the statue's name and its image in their logo, in which the torch's flame doubles as a basketball. The New York Rangers of the National Hockey League depicted the statue's head on their third jersey, beginning in 1997. The National Collegiate Athletic Association's 1996 Men's Basketball Final Four, played at New Jersey's Meadowlands Sports Complex, featured the statue in its logo. The Libertarian Party of the United States uses the statue in its emblem.\n\nThe statue is a frequent subject in popular culture. In music, it has been evoked to indicate support for American policies, as in Toby Keith's song \"Courtesy of the Red, White and Blue (The Angry American)\", and in opposition, appearing on the cover of the Dead Kennedys' album \"Bedtime for Democracy\", which protested the Reagan administration. In film, the torch is the setting for the climax of director Alfred Hitchcock's 1942 movie \"Saboteur\". The statue makes one of its most famous cinematic appearances in the 1968 picture \"Planet of the Apes\", in which it is seen half-buried in sand. It is knocked over in the science-fiction film \"Independence Day\"  and in \"Cloverfield\" the head is ripped off. In Jack Finney's time-travel novel \"Time and Again\", the right arm of the statue, on display in the early 1880s in Madison Square Park, plays a crucial role. Robert Holdstock, consulting editor of \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\", wondered in 1979:\n\n"}
{"id": "28037553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28037553", "title": "Student Achievement and School Accountability Programs", "text": "Student Achievement and School Accountability Programs\n\nStudent Achievement and School Accountability Programs (SASA) is a division of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (OESE) of the U.S. Department of Education (ED) that administers programs of financial assistance to State and local education agencies (LEA) and to colleges and universities. Under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 1965, SASA administers several Title I programs of supplementary instruction and other services. This includes programs such as the Improving Basic Programs Operated by LEAs and the Prevention and Intervention Programs for Children Who are Neglected, Delinquent, or At-Risk. Under Title III of the ESEA, SASA administers the State Formula Grant Program for English Language Acquisition and Language Enhancement. SASA also administers the Education for Homeless Children and Youth program authorized by the McKinney–Vento Homeless Assistance Act (P.L. 100-77).\n\nSASA is headed by a Director who reports to the Assistant Secretary and/or Deputy Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education. The current director is Dr. Zollie Stevenson, Jr.\n\nSASA is divided into six Program Groups:\n\nThe Policy Coordination Group is responsible for policy coordination and develops policy guidance that clarifies for implementation purposes the principal themes of the President's education blueprint. Title I formula grant allocations are also managed by this group as is the programmatic focus on services to non-public schools. The group influences the educational community and others who need to understand the parameters for implementing Title I requirements.\n\nThe Standards and Assessments Group is responsible for ensuring that States develop the standards and assessment systems required by the new Title I. The group provides direct technical assistance to States and also provides specialized technical assistance through external experts for longer term interventions for States with significant assessment issues. They also work with the States to help them comply in a manner that results in systems of standards and assessments that drive instructional change.\n\nThe Instructional Change Group is responsible for changing the face of teaching and learning in Title I schools in a manner that focuses on what works to generate improved results for children. This unit helps technical assistance providers work with schools to implement Title I programs in ways that focus on improving classroom instruction, including the involvement of parents in their child's education. In addition, this unit works with States to design, implement, and evaluate State systems of support for making Title I targeted assistance and schoolwide programs more effective vehicles for instructional change and for turning around low-performing schools. This group also has responsibility for working with content and regional comprehensive centers funded by the Department to develop strategies and materials to aid schools in corrective action and restructuring.\n\nThe Monitoring Group is responsible for instituting a process of achievement-focused monitoring for compliance with the implementation of Title I, Parts A, B and D and the McKinney-Vento Homeless Education programs. States not fully compliant are presented with the opportunity to take corrective actions to address identified concerns. It is through the monitoring process that this group influences the extent to which States, school districts, and schools consider how they are using federal education resources to improve student achievement.\n\nThe Accountability Group is responsible for ensuring that States develop and update the accountability systems used to hold school districts and schools responsible for student achievement under Title I, Part A as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). This group reviews and recommends approval or disapproval of annual State amendments to their Title I required accountability plans and orchestrates the peer review process for the growth model accountability pilot program authorized by the Secretary. The group will also be involved with managing the development/refinement of data definitions associated with NCLB accountability and the annual Consolidated State Performance Report. The group will provide direct technical assistance to States and also provides specialized TA through external experts for longer term interventions for States with significant assessment and accountability issues. They also will work with the States to help them comply in a manner that results in systems of standards and assessments that drive instructional change.\n\nThe Title III State Formula Grants Group is responsible for the administration of the Title III State formula grant program. The group works collaboratively with the Office of English Language Acquisition and the other SASA groups to develop policy guidance, monitor program compliance, ensure program accountability, and provide State and local educational agencies with technical assistance to develop and enhance their capacity for developing standards and assessment systems and providing high quality language instruction educational programs for English language learners.\n\nStudent Achievement and School Accountability U.S. Department of Education\n"}
{"id": "708181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708181", "title": "Subtext", "text": "Subtext\n\nSubtext or undertone is any content of a creative work which is not announced explicitly by the characters or author, but is implicit or becomes something understood by the observer of the work as the production unfolds. Subtext can also refer to the thoughts and motives of the characters which are only covered in an aside. Subtext can also be used to imply controversial subjects without specifically alienating people from the fiction, often through use of metaphor. Especially in light of their inherently ambiguous and self-referential character, many authors have explicitly used subtexts (or subtexts about subtexts) in humor. \n\nSubtext is content underneath the dialogue. Under dialogue, there can be conflict, anger, competition, pride, showing off, or other implicit ideas and emotions. Subtext is the unspoken thoughts and motives of characters — what they really think and believe. \n\nSubtext is also a frequently used method of subtly inserting social or political commentary into fiction. Subtext is often also inserted in narratives where explicit themes are unable to be shown or expressed due to censorship or simply interest in appealing to a general audience. Frequently, these subtexts may include a sexual nature or possible references to sexual orientation. Their inclusion is such so that they are easily overlooked by younger viewers but may be caught by more mature viewers. Subtext also serves to add complexity to a premise that may superficially appeal to younger viewers but may also attract older fans, as is often the case with cartoons, science fiction and fantasy. It also may serve to aid in suspension of disbelief.\n\nSubtext includes information about the period and culture in which the author of a book is writing that may not be deliberately articulated but is conveyed through the text in speech, social customs or historical details. \n\nA more recently coined term, metamessage is considered by some authors to be synonymous with subtext. \"Metamessage\" is a term more commonly used in the analysis of business communication rather than of literary works.\n\nThe author David Baboulene, in his practical academic work on story theory, \"The Story Book\", defines subtext as \"the result of any form of gap in knowledge between any of the participants in a story; for example, between the author and a character, between two characters or between the audience and at least one character.\"\n\nAn example occurs in the 1978 movie Superman. Lois Lane has just met Clark Kent. The subtext is that she has taken an instant dislike to him. At the surface, however, their conversation seems only to solicit and supply information about the existence of others of Clark Kent's type. \"Any more at home like you?\" she inquires. \"Uh, not really, no\", Clark replies. \n\nIn the play \"Ghosts\" by Henrik Ibsen, subtext is important in gaining a greater understanding of the characters, as they cannot always speak freely due to the constrictions of social conventions at the time.\n\nA scene in Woody Allen's movie \"Annie Hall\", in which subtitles explain the characters' inner thoughts during an apparently innocent conversation, is an example of the subtext of a scene being made explicit.\n\nVictorian novels may feature confining social norms such as strict marriage conventions, taboos against births out of wedlock, inheritance to first born sons, etc., that form the subtext of plot and character. These issues can be deployed unconsciously, as in Wilkie Collins' \"The Woman in White\" or as part of a concealed critique of gender politics, as in Charlotte Brontë's \"Jane Eyre\".\n\nIn the episode \"My Best Friend's Bottom\" of the British comedy TV series \"Coupling\", \"Captain Subtext\" is a tool used in the narrative to explicitly make the viewers aware of the subtextual message in the dialogue. In it, the dialogue and the subtext have been deliberately made humorous.\n\nTelevision sci-fi such as the original \"Star Trek\" and \"Doctor Who\" (both of which implicitly avoided onscreen sexual situations) have often been discussed with respect to certain scenes or lines of dialogue.\n\nCues for the subtext are sometimes given in the main text in the form of \"intertexts\", which are allusions to the themes of other texts. An example is \"Blade Runner\", which can be interpreted as containing numerous biblical (intertextual) allusions, framing the subtext as a religiously inspired theme—the search for the Creator and the meaning of life beyond physical existence.\n\nHistorians have often identified an anticipated future revolution, often without the ruling party's understanding.\n\nSuch an example of the power and controversy of subtexts might include the deliverance theme pervasive in the songs, stories, and symbols of the slaves in the United States up through the Civil Rights era and, perhaps, still today. The slave prayers, with their theme of deliverance, may have seemed subversive, as striking at planter ideology and control \n\nSubtext messages have seen fairly widespread use as a way to combat censorship in literary works, for example in the former Communist bloc. The practice is of course much older; e.g. one find works from the middle ages criticizing the church establishment. Some of these works use a formal technique called \"double structure\" in which the same text can have different (usually antithetical) meanings by reading sentences or verses in two different orders.\n\nAccording to a 2008 organizational communication textbook, \"meta message\" is a term coined by lawyer Gerard Nierenberg in his 1995 book \"The Art of Negotiating\" to denote (in the words of the textbook) \"those messages that are conveyed between the lines of what we explicitly say or write, possibly due to the purpose, context, or timing of the message and/or the relationship between the people communicating\".\n\nThe term also appears in a 1972 book of Gregory Bateson, who suggested a somewhat similar distinction, although in the form of a potentially infinite hierarchy of messages, metamessages, meta-metamessages and so on. Bateson argued that any message needs to be interpreted in the frame of reference established by a superordinate message cueing how the textual message is intended. Alan Wolfe points out that Bateson's concepts and terminlogy are rather technical, and are thus commonly misinterpreted. In particular, in Bateson's work the metamessage is the framing message, not the actual (subtext) meaning assigned to the subordinate message in the context of the framing message. About two decades before introducing the metamessage terminology into his works, Bateson studied by what \"mood sign[al]\" (his earlier term for metamessage) subordinated messages are interpreted \"seriously, jokingly, sarcastically, as gestures of friendliness, as acts of aggression\" etc. Invoking Bertrand Russell's Theory of Logical Types, Bateson proposed that for every signal, there is always signal level above it which precisely determines its interpretation. Bateson's theory was however criticized as too rigid and lacking explanatory power for real-world communication phenomena in which signals of any kind (at any level) can be deceitful.\n\nMetamessages can be delivered by a wide variety of means, including verbal modifiers (like \"certainly\", \"only\", \"just\", etc.), and—in spoken communication—by paralanguage, e.g. by rhythm and pitch. Metamessages can also be conveyed by body language.\n\nThe famous pipe image from \"The Treachery of Images\" with the subtitle \"ceci n'est pas une pipe\" (meaning \"this is not a pipe\") is sometimes given as an example of metamessage conveyed by paralanguage.\n"}
{"id": "2320828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2320828", "title": "Superlópez", "text": "Superlópez\n\nSuperlópez is a Spanish comic book character created by Jan. Created in 1973, Superlópez is a parody of Superman. Born \"Jo-Con-Él\" (translated as \"Damn-with-him\") on the planet \"Chitón\" (Spanish slang meaning something like \"Shut up!\") much like Superman's home planet of Krypton, he leaves his planet when he enters a spaceship and presses a button, an accident that sends him to Earth. He was raised by adoptive parents in Barcelona and concealed himself under the identity of office-worker \"Juan López\" (which is actually author Jan's real name). He works with his girlfriend, the bad-tempered \"Luisa Lanas\", the not-so-pally \"Jaime González Lidenbrock\"; and his demanding, unnamed boss.\n\nThis was revealed in the 8-page origin story in the first issue of his magazine. Other stories in the first issue reveal his \"Fortress of Solitude\", the \"Villa Soledad\" in the Arctic and have him fighting a rubber robot, the Galactic Gladiator, a sorceress from another dimension, La Incredible Maza (The Incredible Hulk), an atomic monster and a metal robot.\nOther recurring characters include \"Inspector Hólmez\" (a reference to Sherlock Holmes), an excessively bureaucratic police officer who suspects everyone; \"Martha Hólmez\", the Inspector's daughter, and computer geek \"Chico Humitsec\".\n\nRecurring villains include the evil professor \"Escariano Avieso\"; \"Lady Araña\" (“Lady Spider”); the gangster \"Al Trapone\" (a reference to Al Capone; he is accompanied by goons like \"Carasucia\", \"Caracortada\", \"Carapincho\", gun-wielding \"Pistolet\", etc.); and the mob boss \"Refuller D'Abastos\".\n\nIn Issue No. 2 and 3 (“El Supergrupo”), Superlópez served as a member of a group of superheroes, all of which were Jan’s creations. These included \"El Mago\" (\"The Wizard\", a parody of Dr. Strange); \"Capitán Hispania\" (\"Captain Spain\", a parody of Captain America); \"Latas\" (\"Tin-guy\", a parody of Iron Man); \"Bruto\" (\"The Brute\", a parody of The Thing); and \"la Chica Increíble\" (\"Incredible Girl\", a parody of the token generic superheroine). These spent more time fighting one another over the leadership of the Supergrupo than fighting evil (a parody or reference from the internecine strife that is part of Spain's history). They also made a short appearance in issue 6 where instead of going after the outlawed Superlopez, they argue then fight each other. The Supergroup come back in book 63, where a scientist is altering reality. In book 69, the Supergrupo meet Los Ligiones Justicieros, DC's JLA, featuring parodies of Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern and Aquaman.\n\nSuperlópez began his career as a half-page comic strip without text then whole page strips with text where things for López normally ended up badly (reprinted in issue 13, The Genesis of Superlópez), before expanding into full albums which were later put together into annuals holding a number of issues, with adventures involving supervillains and criminal organizations, later evolving into longer, more complex stories concerning social topics affecting contemporary Spain (drug dealing and youth, political issues, pollution and environmental threats, etc.). Original writer \"Efepé\" (pseudonym of Francisco Pérez Navarro) left the character after the early issues and, from that point on, artist Jan took over the writing as well.\n\nJuan travels around the world after stories with Luisa and Jamie and encounters lost races, treasures and so on. He also encountered assorted aliens, monsters, robots, mad scientists, wars, Aztec gods and even had a trip to Hell. The stories are full of gags with him burning his large nose whenever he uses heat vision, of him getting a bump on the head when Luisa hits him, of him hurting his fist when he hits a metal robot. As well as bees, odd-looking little yellow creatures feature in the background in some panels and are revealed as ectoplasms in the \"Los Petisos Carambanales\" story. He even becomes a popstar and meets the ghost of the Prado Museum. Nothing was too way out for the strips as the characters went from one crazy scenario to another.\n\nOften Superlópez not only parodies Superman but also popular literature. This is the case in \"El Señor de los Chupetes\" (\"Lord of the Pacifiers\", a parody for Lord of the Rings) or \"Al centro de la Tierra\" (after Jules Verne's A Journey to the Center of the Earth)\n\nFrom the 1990s Superlópez adventures take place in real scenarios that are drawn using a realistic style. Famous buildings and monuments in Barcelona are often portrayed in detail, as well as those in other cities of Catalonia (Camprodon), Europe (Andorra, Grenoble, Bulgaria) or Japan. As an internal joke, Superlópez says once that his adventures are evolving into simple traveling guides.\n\nSuperlópez later often had science fiction stories like \"Tú, robot...\" (53) where an intelligent robot is created which then travels the world, unintentionally doing good and bad as it seeks to find out what it means to be human. Confronting the robot in the icy wastes, like in the original Frankenstein story, Superlópez is not sure what humanity is either. In \"El virus Frankenstein\" (56) a virus changes a young boy into a horrible monster while the \"El mundo de al lado\" (57) features a door to another dimension where maybe based on a Little Prince story, the people are enslaved into pulling huge wagons around the planet and \"Elecciones en Kaxim\" (58) feature him interfering in elections on a strange alien world. In book 62, Superlópez goes near a beam giant aliens use to cut planets up and his left arm is cut off at the elbow. It suddenly reattaches itself a few pages later and is normal again.\n\nIn book 64, \"The Time Thief\", Superlópez meets Doctor Who with his Tardis, the Daleks and the Cybermen. In book 66, the \"super group\" go to the Skroll (Marvel Skrulls) planet and also borrowed some of the story line from Fantastic Four 24 (March 1964). The book deals with hospital overcrowding too.\n\nLater Superlópez books leave the caricaturesque tone of his first adventures to deal with current social issues: illegal drug trade, smuggling, tax haven, gunrunning in Africa, dictatorships, or illegal immigration in Europe are some later themes. Book 69 deals with the illegally built Algarrobico hotel in Almeria, southern Spain. Book 70 deals with Muslim radicalisation of youngsters and extremism, a subject few others dare to touch.\n\n\n\nThere is a 2003 short animation film named \"Superlópez contra el robot de bolsillo\" by Enrique Gato, the creator of \"Tadeo Jones\".\n\nA feature length Spanish film \"\" is being made as of 2018, to be released November 23rd, 2018 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3322652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3322652", "title": "The Suppliants (Euripides)", "text": "The Suppliants (Euripides)\n\nThe Suppliants (, \"Hiketides\"; Latin \"Supplices\"), also called The Suppliant Maidens, or The Suppliant Women, first performed in 423 BC, is an ancient Greek play by Euripides.\n\nAfter Oedipus leaves Thebes, his sons fight for control of it. Polyneices lays siege to Thebes against his brother Eteocles. Polyneices has married the daughter of Adrastus, King of Argos. And so Polyneices has on his side the Argive army, leaders of which help form the Seven Against Thebes. The invaders lose the battle, and Polyneices and Eteocles both die. Creon takes power in Thebes and decrees the invaders are not to be buried. The mothers of the dead seek someone to help reverse this, so their sons can be buried.\n\nAethra, the mother of the Athenian king Theseus, prays before the altar of Demeter and Persephone in Eleusis. She is surrounded by women from Argos whose sons died in battle outside the gates of Thebes. Because of Creon’s decree, their corpses remain unburied. Adrastus, the king of Argos who authorized the expedition, lies weeping on the floor surrounded by the sons of the slain warriors. Aethra has sent a messenger to Theseus asking him to come to Eleusis.\n\nThe old women beg Aethra for help, evoking images of their sons’ unburied bodies and appealing to her sympathy as a mother. Theseus arrives. When he asks his mother what is going on, she directs him to Adrastus who begs him to reclaim the bodies. Adrastus explains that he supported the attack on Thebes, against the advice of the seer Amphiaraus, in deference to his sons-in-law, Tydeus and Polyneices. Theseus observes that he favored courage over discretion. Admitting his mistakes, Adrastus appeals to Theseus as the ruler of the only city with the integrity and the power to stand up to Thebes.\n\nAfter a bit of reflection on the state of mankind, Theseus resolves not to repeat Adrastus’ mistake. He tells Adrastus to go away and leave him alone. Although Adrastus is ready to concede, the women will not take no for an answer. Appealing to principles of common human decency, they beg Aethra to intervene. She reminds her son that he has a duty to uphold the ancient laws of Hellas and warns him that his refusal might be interpreted as cowardice. Moved by her tears and arguments, Theseus agrees to intervene, but only if the Athenian citizens endorse his decision. Confident that the people will support him, he and his mother set out for home, followed by Adrastus and the sons of the slain warriors, while the suppliant women pray that Theseus will prevail.\n\nSome time later Theseus returns with a retinue. He dispatches his herald to Thebes to request the release of the bodies. If they cooperate, he says, thank them and come back. If they refuse, tell them Theseus will be in arms at their gates with the full backing of the Athenian people. Before the herald can leave, however, a herald from Thebes arrives looking for the local despot. When Theseus tells him that Athens is not ruled by a despot, but by the people, the herald adopts a disparaging tone. His city, he tells Theseus, is ruled by one man, not by an ignorant mob that is easily swayed by specious words. Theseus responds by saying that in a democracy every man can make a contribution if what he says is wise. The herald warns Theseus not to succumb to the patriotic fervor of the populace. “If death were before their eyes when they were giving their votes,” he says, “Hellas would never rush to her doom in mad desire for battle.” \n\nTheseus reminds the herald that he does not take orders from Creon and asserts his right to uphold the ancient customs of Hellas regarding the recovery of the corpses. When the herald warns him against meddling in something that does not concern him, Theseus states his resolve to do what is right and holy. The herald taunts him to bring it on, while Theseus tells his army to prepare for the attack. He will lead the way with a sword in his hand and the gods at his side. The herald leaves for Thebes with Theseus and his men in close pursuit. They pointedly leave Adrastus behind so as not to confuse their current mission with the previous invasion.\n\nAs the men depart, the women express their fears of additional violence. They hope a compromise can be reached but offer prayers for victory just in case it cannot.\n\nA messenger — a former servant of Capaneus who had been captured by the Thebans — arrives to announce the Athenian victory. After describing how Theseus forced the Theban army to retreat into the city, he reports that Theseus restrained his men at the gates, telling them that they had come to rescue the bodies, not to sack the city. This is the kind of leader men should choose, the messenger says, one who shows courage in danger, but does not overreach. His sentiments are echoed by Adrastus who questions why men choose war instead of settling their disputes with reason.\n\nThe messenger describes how Theseus himself washed the corpses and prepared them for burial. The women are pleased that the bodies have been recovered, but distressed at the thought of seeing them. It would have been better had they never married, they say.\n\nWhen Theseus arrives with the corpses, Adrastus engages the women in a loud lament. At Theseus’ suggestion, Adrastus delivers a funeral oration in which he offers the fallen warriors as models for the Athenian youth to emulate. He describes Capaneus, for example, as a paragon of moderation and Eteocles as a man of such high honor that he spurned offers of gold to avoid corrupting his character.\n\nTheseus refuses to allow the women to see the mangled and decaying bodies of their sons, but says that they will receive their ashes. All will be burned in a common pyre except Capaneus who, because he was struck down by Zeus, will have a special tomb.\n\nThe women continue their lament (“like some wandering cloud I drift”; “I have nothing left but tears.”) Suddenly, they spot Capaneus’ wife Evadne in her bridal dress climbing the rocks above her husband’s sepulcher. Recalling her wedding day, she announces her plan to join her husband in the flames of the pyre. Her father Iphis tries to talk her down, but she leaps to her death eliciting gasps from the onlookers and a cry of woe from her father.\n\nAs Iphis leaves, the orphaned youths arrive to hand over the ashes of their fathers to their grandmothers. The boys’ lamentations are laced with promises of vengeance. As he prepares to leave, Theseus reminds the Argives of their debt to Athens — which they gratefully acknowledge. Their gratitude, however, is not enough for Athena. She suddenly appears above the temple to instruct Theseus to extract a pledge from Adrastus never to invade Athens. After enjoining Theseus to memorialize the pledge at the temple of Apollo, she tells the young men that they will grow up to avenge the death of their fathers by sacking Thebes. Adrastus and the women depart, grateful for the assistance they have received from Theseus.\n\nThe same story had been mentioned years earlier in book 9.27 of \"The History\" by Herodotus, in which the Athenians claimed the event as an example of their history of bravery.\n\nIn ancient Greek literature, funeral rites are highly important to the citizenry. The \"Iliad\" contains scenes of fighters in violent conflict over the treatment of corpses, such as that of Patroclus. People are often willing to fight and risk dying to obtain the bodies of the dead. \"The Suppliants\" takes this characteristic even further, showing a whole city willing to wage war in order to retrieve the bodies of strangers. The theme of forbidding dead bodies from burial occurs many times throughout ancient Greek literature. Examples include the body of Hector as portrayed in the \"Iliad\", the body of Ajax as portrayed in Sophocles' \"Ajax\", and the children of Niobe. For what happens to the body of Polyneices, see Sophocles' \"Antigone\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36075933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36075933", "title": "Thunderstruck (2012 film)", "text": "Thunderstruck (2012 film)\n\nThunderstruck is a 2012 family comedy film directed by John Whitesell and starring Taylor Gray, along with professional basketball player Kevin Durant, Brandon T. Jackson, Doc Shaw and Jim Belushi. It was released on August 24, 2012.\n\nBrian is a 16-year-old living in Oklahoma. Though he has tried out for the school basketball team, the Eagles, he has never made it, resigned to being water boy for the team. While practicing at home, Brian's sister makes a video of him injuring himself. She shows the video around school, and it is eventually seen by Connor, the star player of the basketball team. Brian takes a liking to Isabelle, a new girl at school, but is embarrassed when Connor shows the video of him to the whole school. In order to cheer him up, Brian's dad takes him to a Thunder game against the Detroit Pistons at Chesapeake Energy Arena in Oklahoma City.\n\nAt halftime, Brian is chosen to shoot a half-court shot which he misses and hits Rumble, the mascot in the process. Later on, he meets Kevin Durant and expresses his desire to play just like him. When Durant signs the special edition Oklahoma City Thunder basketball that Brian got to shoot the half-court shot with, a surge of energy causes Durant's talent to transfer to Brian when he hands it over. The Thunder lose the game, with Durant shooting 0-13 in the 2nd half.\n\nThe next morning, Brian learns that Connor, who was at the game, recorded him missing the half-court shot and posted it online. Later that night he goes out to a carnival and sees Connor fail to hit shots to win a prize for the new girl, Isabelle. Connor challenges him to \"do better\", which Brian is able to do, winning a prize which he then gives to Isabelle. Meanwhile, Durant's performance declines at practices, but insists he's only in a slump.\n\nAfter making several impressive shots at home, Brian decides to try out for the Eagles again. The coach, impressed by Brian's new skill, has Brian replace Connor as the team captain, and they win several games. Durant's agent learns of Brian and realizes that he is the same kid who missed the half-court shot. He tracks him down and explains that he believes Brian stole Durant's talent. He arranges for Durant and Brian to practice together to try to reverse it, but all attempts fail.\n\nShortly before the final game, Brian and Isabelle begin fighting about how Brian has changed. Eventually, Brian goes to apologize and, while watching the video of him missing the half-court shot at her house, realizes what has to be done to give Durant his talent back. He rides his bike all the way to Chesapeake Arena and finds Durant. He explains that he hit Rumble before the transfer, and theorized that was what had to happen to reverse it. Brian hits Rumble with exactly the same ball he used to shoot the half-court shot, and then repeats the conversation that he had with Durant at their first meeting. Durant gets his talent back, and the Thunder qualify for the playoffs.\n\nAt the final game for the Eagles, Brian is nervous about playing because he no longer has the talent. Though he plays rather poorly, with help from the other team members, including Connor, he still manages to lead his team to a close game and taking the final shot himself, makes the game-winning shot which sends the Eagles to the state playoffs for the first time in 32 years. Brian, who is gradually getting better at basketball, is later seen playing with Durant.\n\n\nWhile shooting the film, Durant said that the hardest part was not the acting, but rather that he had to miss jump shots on purpose for the film, to indicate that he no longer had the ability to play basketball as well as he used to.\n\nRotten Tomatoes reports that two of 10 critics praised the film with an average score of 4.2/10. The audience gave the film a \"fresh\" 70% rating.\n"}
{"id": "57358809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57358809", "title": "Timeline of Smooth Radio", "text": "Timeline of Smooth Radio\n\nA timeline of notable events relating to Smooth Radio, a British radio station that first launched in 2004. Note that this article also includes information about the national version of Smooth Radio that existed between 2010 and 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3001976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3001976", "title": "Travel insurance", "text": "Travel insurance\n\nTravel insurance is insurance that is intended to cover medical expenses, trip cancellation, lost luggage, flight accident and other losses incurred while traveling, \n\nTravel insurance can usually be arranged at the time of the booking of a trip to cover exactly the duration of that trip, or a \"multi-trip\" policy can cover an unlimited number of trips within a set time frame. Some policies offer lower and higher medical-expense options; the higher ones are chiefly for countries that have high medical costs, such as the United States.\n\nSome credit card issuers offer automatic travel insurance if travel arrangements are paid for using their credit cards, but these policies are generic and particular care must be taken to take into account personal requirements. There are many travel insurance policies available in the market place, but care must be taken of what events are covered by each policy, and what exclusions, exceptions and limits apply, besides other issues.\n\nThe most common risks that are covered by travel insurance plans are:\n\n\nMedical expense coverage can be per-occurrence or maximum-limit.\n\nSome travel policies will also provide cover for additional costs, although these vary widely between providers. Almost $2 billion in travel insurance is sold each year.\n\nIn addition, often separate insurance can be purchased for specific costs such as:\n\nCertain countries will require that you have purchased sufficient coverage should something happen while you are traveling to that country. Those governments do not want to be burdened with the costs of your medical care and will require you to have a suitable plan meeting certain minimum requirements. \n\nThe common exclusions in travel insurance policies include pre-existing medical conditions, unlicensed operation of a vehicle, travelling for the purpose of receiving medical treatment, elective surgery or treatment, or injury or illness caused by alcohol, drug use, or reckless behavior, including engaging in some sporting activities. Events arising from war and terrorism are usually excluded, but most policies allow trip cancellation arising from war or an act of terrorism that meets the policy's criteria.\n\nInsurance companies issuing new policies will often exclude circumstances based on an ongoing event, such as typhoons or floods. Long-term exclusions may be announced for events such a Bali’s Mt Agung volcano being excluded from cover for the foreseeable future, (as of late 2017). \n\nSome policies exclude travel to certain countries, or parts of countries, where a greater risk is expected. These determinations are often made based on official government travel advice from organisations such as the US State Department or the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs. \n\nTravel insurance can also provide helpful services, often 24 hours a day, 7 days a week that can include concierge services and emergency travel assistance. Pre-existing medical conditions must be declared prior to the trip start date. The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) entitles to treatment in state-run hospitals in EU countries and Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, but it is not a substitute for travel insurance.\n\n"}
