{"id": "5382297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5382297", "title": "Abdeslam Ahizoune", "text": "Abdeslam Ahizoune\n\nAbdeslam Ahizoune (born 20 April 1955 in Tiflet, Morocco) is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Maroc Telecom; the , and as such is a member of the Management Board of Vivendi corporation, MT's parent company.\n\nAbdeslam Ahizoune graduated from l’École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications de Paris in 1977.\n\nSince December 2006, Ahizoune is the Chairman of the Fédération Royale Marocaine d’Athlétisme, Morocco's Athletics governing body and member of Royal institute of the Amazigh culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "42662643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42662643", "title": "Ahmed Maiteeq", "text": "Ahmed Maiteeq\n\nAhmed Omar Maiteeq is a Libyan businessman and politician, originally from Misrata, who was elected Prime Minister of Libya in May 2014. His election as prime minister took place under disputed circumstances. The Justice Ministry decided on 29 May that Maiteeq was not the Prime Minister due to voting procedural issue occurred when the First Deputy of GNC left the session without valid reason. The Libyan Supreme Court was expected to issue a verdict on 5 June 2014 regarding the election of Maiteeq, although it indicated on that day that it believed that the appointment of Maiteeq was invalid, the court stated that appeals should be heard and delayed a final ruling until 9 June. The court ruled on 9 June that Maiteeq appointment was invalid;\nAbdullah al-Thani is expected to stay on as prime minister. Maiteeq submitted his resignation voluntarily in same day.\n\nMaiteeq was born on 1972 in Tripoli, Libya. His father held a number of high offices during the monarchical period prior to the Gaddafi regime. Maiteeq is a cousin to the controversial GNC representative from Misrata, Abdulrahman Asswehly. He was also the grandson of the Libyan freedom fighter, Ramadan Asswehly. He obtained degrees in economy and business management from a university in London.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War, he took part in the fighting in Misrata and the liberation of Tripoli. He was a member of the Chamber for the Liberation of Tripoli during the conflict and a member of the Tripoli Development and Stability Council after the fall of the regime.\n\nFollowing Acting Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thani's call that he would resign on 13 April for an alleged attack on his family, he was persuaded to stay on till a new leader was elected. The first day of voting on 28 April was disrupted by armed men firing in parliament. In a voting session at the General National Congress that was described by \"Al Jazeera English\" as \"chaotic,\" Maiteeq was elected, and took the oath, \"I swear I will carry out my duties honestly and in devotion.\" Later MP Fathi al-Majbari told Libyan television station \"Al-Ahrar\": \"There are violations in today's session\" and that a certain alteration of the votes had occurred after the session was adjourned.\" Ultimately in the days that followed, the Libyan Supreme Court ruled that the election of Maiteeq had been invalid, and the previous Prime Minister, al-Thani, agreed to return to office.\n\nal-Thani, had earlier signed an agreement with those holding the smaller oil export terminals of Hariga and Zueitina, those holding the larger Ras Lanuf and Es Sider terminals refused to recognise Maiteeq. Spokesman Ali Hasi said: \"Maiteeq came to power illegally.\"\n\nMaiteeq identifies as an independent and as not affiliated to any political party or movement.\n\nIn March 2016, he became Deputy Prime minister and Vice-Chairman of the Presidential Council. In March 2017, he had a meeting in Moscow with the Special Representative of the President of Russia for the Middle East and Africa, Mikhail Bogdanov, where they discussed the ongoing Libyan crisis and solutions for resolving the conflict, including the possibility of negotiations between the GNA and the Tobruk-based Council of Deputies.\n\nHe is married and has four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2962760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2962760", "title": "American National Business Hall of Fame", "text": "American National Business Hall of Fame\n\nThe American National Business Hall of Fame (ANBHF) was established in 1972. It is managed by an executive office, and has representatives from universities throughout the United States. Its laureate program inducts American businesspeople into the ANBHF, based on a combination of exceptional leadership and business ethics.\n\nThe ANBHF has an online museum.\n\nThe ANBHF has a board of directors and a board of state representatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "21905992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21905992", "title": "Bright Ideas Trust", "text": "Bright Ideas Trust\n\nBright Ideas Trust (BIT) is a registered charity founded in 2007 by Richard Morris and former \"The Apprentice\" winner Tim Campbell, established to help disadvantaged people aged 16-30 build their own businesses.\n\nThe charity was established to encourage young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to get involved in enterprise. \n\nBright Ideas Trust provides end-to-end business start-up support, mentoring and access to funding to disadvantaged 16- to 30-year-olds, including those who are not in employment, education or training (NEET). \n\nBright Ideas Trust currently has staff located in London and the North East of England but is able to remotely support young people from across the UK.\n\nDespite being a charity, Bright Ideas Trust does not give away grants but instead helps beneficiaries access start-up finance via start-up loans. \n\nThe charity provides bespoke support for young people who want to start their own business. Each young person is matched with a mentor, who works with them during the business planning stage and for at least the first twelve months of the business trading. Mentors are usually experienced entrepreneurs from a wide variety of sectors.\n\nEvery 2 months Bright Ideas Trust hosts an informal networking event for young people and people interested in helping them set up in business. Each event includes an interview with a young person the charity has helped, a guest speaker who is usually an established business owner and an expert business panel q&a session. \n\nBright Ideas Trust also delivers enterprise awareness workshops and events in schools, colleges, universities and other youth organisations to help young people make fully informed decisions regarding their career choice. \n\nBright Ideas Trust also engages with prisons, youth offending teams, housing associations and other organisations supporting employability projects for young people.\n"}
{"id": "30101675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30101675", "title": "Carsten Henrik Bruun Jr.", "text": "Carsten Henrik Bruun Jr.\n\nCarsten Henrik Bruun (7 November 1868 – 16 July 1951) was a Norwegian military officer, sport shooter and businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Tønsberg as the second son of ship-owner Carsten Henrik Carstensen Bruun (1828–1907) and Maren Sibylle Bull Foyn (1840–1918). He was an older brother of Svend Foyn Bruun, and as such an uncle of Svend Foyn Bruun Jr. On the paternal side he was a great-grandnephew of founding father Henrik Carstensen, and on the maternal side he was a grandson of Laurentius Føyn Jr, who was a brother of noted whaler Svend Foyn.\n\nHe was married to Esther Larsen (1872–1940).\n\nHe was a Major in the Infantry of the Norwegian Army, and served as chief executive officer of Elektricitets-Aktieselskabet AEG, the Norwegian branch of German company Allgemeine Elektricitäts-Gesellschaft (AEG). He also had a sporting career. At the age of 43 he participated in the men's trap competition at the 1912 Summer Olympics. He finished in joint 27th place. For his achievements he was decorated as a Knight of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav.\n"}
{"id": "1325729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325729", "title": "Christopher Lawford", "text": "Christopher Lawford\n\nChristopher Kennedy \"Chris\" Lawford (March 29, 1955 – September 4, 2018) was an American author, actor, and activist. He was a member of the prominent Kennedy family, and son of actor Peter Lawford.\n\nLawford was born in Santa Monica, California, at Saint John's Health Center. He was the eldest child and only son of actor Peter Lawford (1923–1984) and socialite Patricia \"Pat\" Kennedy Lawford (1924–2006). His three younger sisters are Sydney McKelvy (born 1956), Victoria Lawford (born 1958), and Robin Lawford (born 1961). Lawford was a nephew of President John F. Kennedy and former cousin-in-law of actor/politician Arnold Schwarzenegger (appearing in two of his films, including \"\"). Peter and Patricia Lawford divorced in 1966 after which Patricia raised the children in New York City.\n\nBefore his parents' divorce, Lawford attended St. Martin of Tours Elementary School in Los Angeles. Upon moving to New York City with his mother, he attended the Middlesex School in Concord, Massachusetts. He later earned a Bachelor of Arts from Tufts University in 1977. In 1983, he earned a J.D. from Boston College Law School, and a master's certificate in Clinical Psychology from Harvard University, where he gained an academic appointment as a Lecturer in Psychiatry.\n\nLawford began taking drugs while attending the Middlesex School. By the late 1970s, he had developed a serious drug abuse problem. He briefly attended Fordham University School of Law, but dropped out after several months due to his dependency on heroin. He later contracted Hepatitis C due to his drug abuse. In 1980, he was arrested in Aspen, Colorado for impersonating a doctor in order to get prescription medication. The charges were later dropped when Lawford completed his probation.\n\nIn April 1984, Lawford's cousin David Kennedy, who also battled substance abuse issues and with whom Lawford had a close relationship, died of a drug overdose. David's death prompted Lawford to seek professional help for his issues. He attended addiction behavior classes at the Cambridge Hospital and became sober.\n\nIn 1988, Lawford decided to pursue a career in acting. He spent over fifteen years in the film and television business as an actor, lawyer, executive, and producer. As an independent producer Lawford arranged financing for and produced films including \"Kiss Me Guido\" (in 1997) which he also appeared as 'Dakota', & \"Drunks\"; both films were selections in the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nLawford's acting credits include \"Eavesdrop\", \"Slipstream\", \"The World's Fastest Indian\", \"Terminator 3\", \"Blankman\", \"The Doors\", \"The Russia House\", \"Thirteen Days\", and many others. His credits also include a three-year tenure on the soap opera \"All My Children\" and a role on \"General Hospital\".\n\nIn September 2005, HarperCollins published Lawford's memoir \"Symptoms of Withdrawal: A Memoir of Snapshots and Redemption\" (William Morrow 2005, ), which immediately became a New York Times Bestseller. In 2009, he released \"Moments of Clarity: Voices from the Front Lines of Addiction and Recovery\", a series of essays by public figures, athletes and entertainers who have struggled with addiction to drugs and alcohol. Almost every interviewee sought help from a twelve-step program such as Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous or another spiritually based means of support for recovery. In his own life, Lawford battled a drug and alcohol addiction for much of his early life.\n\nLawford worked extensively in politics, government and the non-profit sector holding executive staff positions with The Democratic National Committee, The Community Action for Legal Services Agency and in the Washington office of Senator Edward M. Kennedy. He has held staff positions on numerous national, state and local political campaigns, as well as with The Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation, Special Olympics and The Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University. He was later a Public Advocacy Consultant for Caron Treatment Centers, and was appointed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to serve on the California Department of Public Health Advisory Board.\n\nLawford told Australian interviewers that he had been trying to make a film about the 1962 Cuban missile crisis from Cuba's perspective but that he had been stymied by the U.S. embargo.\n\nLawford told the Australian newspaper that he sat next to Cuban leader Fidel Castro in Havana during a 2001 screening of \"Thirteen Days\", a film about the missile crisis. \"It was incredible. I went there and sat next to the guy my uncles were trying to kill. But President Castro believes if President Kennedy had lived, the embargo would have been lifted and they would have normalized relations.\" In a separate interview with ABC, Lawford said Castro \"got up at the end of the film and he said, 'You've made a great film, but you've ignored Cuba, now you have to make a film of what was happening here in Cuba during those thirteen days.\" Lawford said that he had returned to Cuba six times in an effort to do just that \"but as you know we have an embargo against Cuba, which is one of the greatest foreign policy tragedies in the history of the United States.\"\n\nThe Cuban government has not commented on this allegation.\n\nIn November 1984, Lawford married Jeannie Olsson, a sales advertising assistant for \"New York\" magazine. The couple had three children: Christopher Kennedy Lawford Jr., Savannah Rose Lawford, and Matthew LeMoyne Kennedy Lawford. They divorced in 2000.\n\nOn August 22, 2005, Lawford married Lana Antonova, a Russian actress and entrepreneur, in a small ceremony in Las Vegas, NV. The couple divorced in December 10, 2009.\n\nIn May 2014, Lawford married Mercedes Miller, a yoga teacher, in Maui, Hawaii.\n\nLawford was raised in the Roman Catholic faith. In a 2009 interview, Lawford claimed that he left the church in 1968 stating:\n\n[...] I left the Catholic Church when I was 13 years old after my Uncle Bobby was assassinated, saying I would never go back, and I didn't really have a need for God and I didn't really believe in God. He wasn't useful to me. But I had gotten an understanding that there were spiritual people. My grandmother, Rose Kennedy, was a devout Catholic, but she was also a very spiritual person. She walked and meditated every day of her life. Her faith and spirituality got her through enormous trauma. That was not lost on me. My grandmother was this beacon of equilibrium in a world that was crazy. [...]That's [Roman Catholicism] just not something that speaks to me. I have my own tradition. I go to an ashram. I meditate. I chant. I do all that kind of stuff [...]\n\nIn March 2010, Lawford sold at auction a 1965 Picasso painting, \"Femme au Grand Chapeau. Buste.\" The painting was estimated to sell at Sotheby's for between $8 million to $12 million and ended up bringing $8.2 million, or $9.3 million with Sotheby's buyer's commission.\n\nOn September 5, 2018, Christopher's cousin Kerry Kennedy announced via her Twitter account that Lawford had died and paid tribute to him. That same day, law enforcement officials in Hollywood, California told TMZ that Lawford suffered a heart attack at a yoga studio in Vancouver, British Columbia, the previous evening and later died. An autopsy is being performed to the determine the exact cause of death, which is believed to have been natural causes.\n\nLawford supported Women in Recovery, Inc., a non-profit organization offering a live-in, 12-step program of rehabilitation for women in need, based in Venice, California. This charity, which was founded by a longtime resident of Venice, Sister Ada Geraghty, annually honors those who have made a difference in helping women overcome substance abuse problems. Lawford was the 2006 honoree for Women in Recovery at their Gala; past honorees have included Jamie Lee Curtis, Angela Lansbury, and Anthony Hopkins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2875653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2875653", "title": "Consumer NZ", "text": "Consumer NZ\n\nConsumer NZ, previously known as Consumers' Institute of New Zealand, is an organization that covers a wide range of activities relating to consumer protection and information. Its work includes comparative tests and surveys of consumer goods and services, research into and advice on financial, food, health, safety, welfare and environmental matters, representation at parliamentary committees and public enquiries and an interest in consumer education and complaints advisory work. \n\nThe Consumers’ Council was established in 1959 ‘to protect and promote the interest of consumers of goods and services’. In 1963 the name Consumers Institute was adopted and in 1967 it became a separate government funded entity. In 1986 the Ministry of Consumer Affairs was established and the Consumers Institute lost its special legal protection and government funding. The Consumers Institute became an incorporated society funded by members’ subscriptions in 1989 and in 2007 the Consumers’ Institute was renamed Consumer NZ.\n\nIn 2016 the organisation had over 100,000 members and supporters.\n\nThe Minister of Consumer Affairs (New Zealand) has cited Consumer NZ as a source of guidance for consumers wanting to understand the Consumer Guarantees Act. \nWith the Ministry of Consumer Affairs (New Zealand), Consumer NZ manages Powerswitch, which is a project to assist consumers in evaluating the costs of consuming electricity.\n\nConsumer commissions independent laboratories to carry out product tests. Consumer does not accept free goods for testing or sponsorship. The magazine is completely independent and has no ties with any commercial firm or organisation. Their membership of Consumers International means they benefit from an exchange of information with consumer organisations around the world.\n\nThe organization does not permit any marketer to use its test results to promote their products.\n\nThe organization has been criticized for emphasizing shortcomings in nursing homes, with health care workers saying that Consumers NZ demands more from health care services than it is reasonable to expect.\n\nConsumer NZ is governed by an elected board of seven members who hold office for three years. The current chair is Richard Aston. The deputy chair is Sue Kedgley. As part of Consumers’ work on behalf of all NZ consumers, they regularly make submissions to Government and statutory authorities on a wide range of issues affecting consumers.\n\nConsumers' money comes from the sale of publications and subscriptions to \"Consumer\" and consumer.org.nz. When a customer subscribes to Consumer magazine or consumer.org.nz they become a member of Consumer NZ (unless they request otherwise) and have the right to nominate and vote for Board members. The style of the magazine has been critiqued and described as a \"distinctive authorial\" presentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "48600937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48600937", "title": "Cupid's Span", "text": "Cupid's Span\n\nCupid's Span is an outdoor sculpture by married artists Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen, installed along the Embarcadero in San Francisco, California, in the United States. The sculpture, commissioned by GAP founders Donald and Doris F. Fisher, depicts a partial bow and piece of an arrow.\n\nClaes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen's \"Cupid's Span\", made of fiberglass and steel, was installed in the newly built Rincon Park along the Embarcadero in San Francisco in 2002. The piece resembles Cupid's bow and arrow, drawn, with the arrow and bow partially implanted in the ground; the artists stated that the piece was inspired by San Francisco's reputation as the home port of Eros, hence the stereotypical bow and arrow of Cupid. Leydier and Penwarden wrote, \"Love's trade-mark weapon naturally evokes the city's permissive and romantic reputation, while formally its taut curve resonates wonderfully with the structure of the famous suspension bridge in the background.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58953380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58953380", "title": "DVA Group", "text": "DVA Group\n\nDVA is a German multinational agrochemicals, pharmaceutical, life sciences and plastics company with subsidiaries in more than 20 countries worldwide. The headquarter of the family-owned company is in Hamburg, Germany and was established in 1968.\n\nDVA was founded in 1968 as a ship-broker in Hamburg, Germany. Then, the company evolved into a specialist for integrated services in the fields of marketing, research & development and distribution. \nToday DVA Group operate in three divisions: \n\n"}
{"id": "53006674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53006674", "title": "Dan Adamescu", "text": "Dan Adamescu\n\nDan Grigore Adamescu (20 September 1948 – 24 January 2017) was a Romanian businessman who was the founder of The Nova Group, and was the second richest Romanian in 2013. In 2016, he was sentenced to four years and four months in jail for bribing judges at his companies' insolvency trials. Adamescu held Romanian and German citizenships.\n\nBorn in Vaideeni, Vâlcea County, Adamescu entered business in 1971, after graduating from the Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies. He spent eleven years working in Germany, and returned to Romania in 1989. He made his wealth in the early 1990s, when Romania was moving from communism to capitalism. Adamescu was critical of the Romanian Government's anti-corruption policies.\n\nIn 2013, Forbes estimated Adamescu's net worth at US$900 million, making him the second-richest Romanian, after Ioan Niculae. At the time, he was the majority shareholder of The Nova Group, which owned companies including România Liberă, Astra Insurance, ASC Oțelul Galați, and the Unirea Shopping Center. In 2015, Forbes Romania estimated his net worth to be €550 million. In October 2016, Alexander Adamescu, Dan's son, denied that his father had affiliations with Black Cube. HotNews.ro had claimed Adamescu was a client of Black Cube. In the same month, Ademescu's ex-wife attempted to sue him for ownership of the Unirea Shopping Center.\n\nIn 2013, Adamescu's company Astra Insurance went bankrupt; his family blamed the Romanian state for causing the bankruptcy. During the bankruptcy trial, Adamescu was alleged to have bribed judges €20,000. In May 2014, Victor Ponta predicted that Adamescu would be arrested for corruption. Adamescu was arrested a few weeks afterwards. In the same year, one of the judges was arrested, after which Adamescu's lawyer allegedly committed suicide by throwing himself under a train. In March 2016, Adamescu was charged with causing $191 million of damages to Astra Insurance. In May 2016, he was sentenced to four years and four months in jail for corruption.\n\nIn November 2016, Adamescu's parole request, based on ill health, was rejected by a local court. In December, he had knee surgery, after which he developed infections. He was in an induced coma from December 2016 until his death on 24 January 2017, and had been suffering from septicemia. Adamescu was buried in the Lutheran section of Bellu Cemetery.\n\nAdamescu was married to Carmen Palade, general manager of Unirea Shopping Center for \"many years\". As of October 2018, Palade is being held by Romanian authorities after \"several hours of hearings\" on suspicion of embezzlement and tax evasion. Palade had fought for control of the Nova Group with her husband and stepson, Alexander Adamescu, and was removed as head of Nova in 2017, with ALexander taking over after his father's death.\n\nAlexander Adamescu, a director of his father's company, was accused by Romania’s National Anticorruption Directorate (DNA) of consenting to bribery. In May 2016 Romanian courts issued two national arrest warrants against Adamescu and then converted into a European Arrest Warrant in connection with his father's case. On 13 June 2016, he was arrested by British police. In an interview with The Times, he said he “fears that he will die in prison like his father if the Romanian government secures his extradition.\n\nOn 29 March 2017 during a hearing involving Adamescu's Dutch holding company Nova Group Investments and Romania, the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes tribunal recommended that Romania withdraw (or otherwise suspend operation of) the European Arrest Warrant against Adamescu, and called upon Romania to “refrain from reissuing or transmitting any other EAW against him”. On 10 April 2017, Romania asked the ICSID to reconsider its recommendation but this was rejected and the recommendation upheld.\n"}
{"id": "9135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9135", "title": "Derivative (finance)", "text": "Derivative (finance)\n\nIn finance, a derivative is a contract that \"derives\" its value from the performance of an underlying entity. This underlying entity can be an asset, index, or interest rate, and is often simply called the \"underlying\". Derivatives can be used for a number of purposes, including insuring against price movements (hedging), increasing exposure to price movements for speculation or getting access to otherwise hard-to-trade assets or markets.\nSome of the more common derivatives include forwards, futures, options, swaps, and variations of these such as synthetic collateralized debt obligations and credit default swaps. Most derivatives are traded over-the-counter (off-exchange) or on an exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange, while most insurance contracts have developed into a separate industry. In the United States, after the financial crisis of 2007–2009, there has been increased pressure to move derivatives to trade on exchanges. \nDerivatives are one of the three main categories of financial instruments, the other two being stocks (i.e., equities or shares) and debt (i.e., bonds and mortgages). The oldest example of a derivative in history, attested to by Aristotle, is thought to be a contract transaction of olives, entered into by ancient Greek philosopher Thales, who made a profit in the exchange. Bucket shops, outlawed a century ago, are a more recent historical example.\n\nDerivatives are contracts between two parties that specify conditions (especially the dates, resulting values and definitions of the underlying variables, the parties' contractual obligations, and the notional amount) under which payments are to be made between the parties. The assets include commodities, stocks, bonds, interest rates and currencies, but they can also be other derivatives, which adds another layer of complexity to proper valuation. The components of a firm's capital structure, e.g., bonds and stock, can also be considered derivatives, more precisely options, with the underlying being the firm's assets, but this is unusual outside of technical contexts.\n\nFrom the economic point of view, financial derivatives are cash flows, that are conditioned stochastically and discounted to present value. The market risk inherent in the underlying asset is attached to the financial derivative through contractual agreements and hence can be traded separately. The underlying asset does not have to be acquired. Derivatives therefore allow the breakup of ownership and participation in the market value of an asset. This also provides a considerable amount of freedom regarding the contract design. That contractual freedom allows derivative designers to modify the participation in the performance of the underlying asset almost arbitrarily. Thus, the participation in the market value of the underlying can be effectively weaker, stronger (leverage effect), or implemented as inverse. Hence, specifically the market price risk of the underlying asset can be controlled in almost every situation.\n\nThere are two groups of derivative contracts: the privately traded over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives such as swaps that do not go through an exchange or other intermediary, and exchange-traded derivatives (ETD) that are traded through specialized derivatives exchanges or other exchanges.\n\nDerivatives are more common in the modern era, but their origins trace back several centuries. One of the oldest derivatives is rice futures, which have been traded on the Dojima Rice Exchange since the eighteenth century. Derivatives are broadly categorized by the relationship between the underlying asset and the derivative (such as forward, option, swap); the type of underlying asset (such as equity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives, interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, or credit derivatives); the market in which they trade (such as exchange-traded or over-the-counter); and their pay-off profile.\n\nDerivatives may broadly be categorized as \"lock\" or \"option\" products. Lock products (such as swaps, futures, or forwards) obligate the contractual parties to the terms over the life of the contract. Option products (such as interest rate swaps) provide the buyer the right, but not the obligation to enter the contract under the terms specified.\n\nDerivatives can be used either for risk management (i.e. to \"hedge\" by providing offsetting compensation in case of an undesired event, a kind of \"insurance\") or for speculation (i.e. making a financial \"bet\"). This distinction is important because the former is a prudent aspect of operations and financial management for many firms across many industries; the latter offers managers and investors a risky opportunity to increase profit, which may not be properly disclosed to stakeholders.\n\nAlong with many other financial products and services, derivatives reform is an element of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. The Act delegated many rule-making details of regulatory oversight to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and those details are not finalized nor fully implemented as of late 2012.\n\nTo give an idea of the size of the derivative market, \"The Economist\" has reported that as of June 2011, the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives market amounted to approximately $700 trillion, and the size of the market traded on exchanges totaled an additional $83 trillion. For the fourth quarter 2017 the European Securities Market Authority estimated the size of European derivatives market at a size of €660 trillion with 74 million outstanding contracts. \n\nHowever, these are \"notional\" values, and some economists say that this value greatly exaggerates the market value and the true credit risk faced by the parties involved. For example, in 2010, while the aggregate of OTC derivatives exceeded $600 trillion, the value of the market was estimated much lower, at $21 trillion. The credit risk equivalent of the derivative contracts was estimated at $3.3 trillion. \n\nStill, even these scaled down figures represent huge amounts of money. For perspective, the budget for total expenditure of the United States government during 2012 was $3.5 trillion, and the total current value of the U.S. stock market is an estimated $23 trillion. The world annual Gross Domestic Product is about $65 trillion.\n\nAnd for one type of derivative at least, Credit Default Swaps (CDS), for which the inherent risk is considered high , the higher, nominal value, remains relevant. It was this type of derivative that investment magnate Warren Buffett referred to in his famous 2002 speech in which he warned against \"financial weapons of mass destruction\". CDS notional value in early 2012 amounted to $25.5 trillion, down from $55 trillion in 2008.\n\nDerivatives are used for the following:\n\nLock products are theoretically valued at zero at the time of execution and thus do not typically require an up-front exchange between the parties. Based upon movements in the underlying asset over time, however, the value of the contract will fluctuate, and the derivative may be either an asset (i.e., \"in the money\") or a liability (i.e., \"out of the money\") at different points throughout its life. Importantly, either party is therefore exposed to the credit quality of its counterparty and is interested in protecting itself in an event of default.\n\nOption products have immediate value at the outset because they provide specified protection (intrinsic value) over a given time period (time value). One common form of option product familiar to many consumers is insurance for homes and automobiles. The insured would pay more for a policy with greater liability protections (intrinsic value) and one that extends for a year rather than six months (time value). Because of the immediate option value, the option purchaser typically pays an up front premium. Just like for lock products, movements in the underlying asset will cause the option's intrinsic value to change over time while its time value deteriorates steadily until the contract expires. An important difference between a lock product is that, after the initial exchange, the option purchaser has no further liability to its counterparty; upon maturity, the purchaser will execute the option if it has positive value (i.e., if it is \"in the money\") or expire at no cost (other than to the initial premium) (i.e., if the option is \"out of the money\").\n\nDerivatives allow risk related to the price of the underlying asset to be transferred from one party to another. For example, a wheat farmer and a miller could sign a futures contract to exchange a specified amount of cash for a specified amount of wheat in the future. Both parties have reduced a future risk: for the wheat farmer, the uncertainty of the price, and for the miller, the availability of wheat. However, there is still the risk that no wheat will be available because of events unspecified by the contract, such as the weather, or that one party will renege on the contract. Although a third party, called a clearing house, insures a futures contract, not all derivatives are insured against counter-party risk.\n\nFrom another perspective, the farmer and the miller both reduce a risk and acquire a risk when they sign the futures contract: the farmer reduces the risk that the price of wheat will fall below the price specified in the contract and acquires the risk that the price of wheat will rise above the price specified in the contract (thereby losing additional income that he could have earned). The miller, on the other hand, acquires the risk that the price of wheat will fall below the price specified in the contract (thereby paying more in the future than he otherwise would have) and reduces the risk that the price of wheat will rise above the price specified in the contract. In this sense, one party is the insurer (risk taker) for one type of risk, and the counter-party is the insurer (risk taker) for another type of risk.\n\nHedging also occurs when an individual or institution buys an asset (such as a commodity, a bond that has coupon payments, a stock that pays dividends, and so on) and sells it using a futures contract. The individual or institution has access to the asset for a specified amount of time, and can then sell it in the future at a specified price according to the futures contract. Of course, this allows the individual or institution the benefit of holding the asset, while reducing the risk that the future selling price will deviate unexpectedly from the market's current assessment of the future value of the asset.\nDerivatives trading of this kind may serve the financial interests of certain particular businesses. For example, a corporation borrows a large sum of money at a specific interest rate. The interest rate on the loan reprices every six months. The corporation is concerned that the rate of interest may be much higher in six months. The corporation could buy a forward rate agreement (FRA), which is a contract to pay a fixed rate of interest six months after purchases on a notional amount of money. If the interest rate after six months is above the contract rate, the seller will pay the difference to the corporation, or FRA buyer. If the rate is lower, the corporation will pay the difference to the seller. The purchase of the FRA serves to reduce the uncertainty concerning the rate increase and stabilize earnings.\n\nDerivatives can be used to acquire risk, rather than to hedge against risk. Thus, some individuals and institutions will enter into a derivative contract to speculate on the value of the underlying asset, betting that the party seeking insurance will be wrong about the future value of the underlying asset. Speculators look to buy an asset in the future at a low price according to a derivative contract when the future market price is high, or to sell an asset in the future at a high price according to a derivative contract when the future market price is less.\n\nIndividuals and institutions may also look for arbitrage opportunities, as when the current buying price of an asset falls below the price specified in a futures contract to sell the asset.\n\nSpeculative trading in derivatives gained a great deal of notoriety in 1995 when Nick Leeson, a trader at Barings Bank, made poor and unauthorized investments in futures contracts. Through a combination of poor judgment, lack of oversight by the bank's management and regulators, and unfortunate events like the Kobe earthquake, Leeson incurred a $1.3 billion loss that bankrupted the centuries-old institution.\n\nThe true proportion of derivatives contracts used for hedging purposes is unknown, but it appears to be relatively small. Also, derivatives contracts account for only 3–6% of the median firms' total currency and interest rate exposure. Nonetheless, we know that many firms' derivatives activities have at least some speculative component for a variety of reasons.\n\nIn broad terms, there are two groups of derivative contracts, which are distinguished by the way they are traded in the market:\n\n\nAccording to the Bank for International Settlements, who first surveyed OTC derivatives in 1995, reported that the \"gross market value, which represent the cost of replacing all open contracts at the prevailing market prices, ... increased by 74% since 2004, to $11 trillion at the end of June 2007 (BIS 2007:24).\" Positions in the OTC derivatives market increased to $516 trillion at the end of June 2007, 135% higher than the level recorded in 2004. The total outstanding notional amount is US$708 trillion (as of June 2011). Of this total notional amount, 67% are interest rate contracts, 8% are credit default swaps (CDS), 9% are foreign exchange contracts, 2% are commodity contracts, 1% are equity contracts, and 12% are other. Because OTC derivatives are not traded on an exchange, there is no central counter-party. Therefore, they are subject to counterparty risk, like an ordinary contract, since each counter-party relies on the other to perform.\n\n\nSome of the common variants of derivative contracts are as follows:\nSome common examples of these derivatives are the following:\n\nA collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a type of structured asset-backed security (ABS). An \"asset-backed security\" is used as an umbrella term for a type of security backed by a pool of assets—including collateralized debt obligations and mortgage-backed securities (Example: \"The capital market in which asset-backed securities are issued and traded is composed of three main categories: ABS, MBS and CDOs\".(source: )<br>—and sometimes for a particular type of that security—one backed by consumer loans (example: \"As a rule of thumb, securitization issues backed by mortgages are called MBS, and securitization issues backed by debt obligations are called CDO, [and] Securitization issues backed by consumer-backed products—car loans, consumer loans and credit cards, among others—are called ABS. source , <br>see also )</ref> Originally developed for the corporate debt markets, over time CDOs evolved to encompass the mortgage and mortgage-backed security (MBS) markets.\nLike other private-label securities backed by assets, a CDO can be thought of as a promise to pay investors in a prescribed sequence, based on the cash flow the CDO collects from the pool of bonds or other assets it owns. The CDO is \"sliced\" into \"tranches\", which \"catch\" the cash flow of interest and principal payments in sequence based on seniority. If some loans default and the cash collected by the CDO is insufficient to pay all of its investors, those in the lowest, most \"junior\" tranches suffer losses first. The last to lose payment from default are the safest, most senior tranches. Consequently, coupon payments (and interest rates) vary by tranche with the safest/most senior tranches paying the lowest and the lowest tranches paying the highest rates to compensate for higher default risk. As an example, a CDO might issue the following tranches in order of safeness: Senior AAA (sometimes known as \"super senior\"); Junior AAA; AA; A; BBB; Residual.\n\nSeparate special-purpose entities—rather than the parent investment bank—issue the CDOs and pay interest to investors. As CDOs developed, some sponsors repackaged tranches into yet another iteration called \"CDO-Squared\" or the \"CDOs of CDOs\". \nIn the early 2000s, CDOs were generally diversified, but by 2006–2007—when the CDO market grew to hundreds of billions of dollars—this changed. CDO collateral became dominated not by loans, but by lower level (BBB or A) tranches recycled from other asset-backed securities, whose assets were usually non-prime mortgages. These CDOs have been called \"the engine that powered the mortgage supply chain\" for nonprime mortgages, and are credited with giving lenders greater incentive to make non-prime loans leading up to the 2007-9 subprime mortgage crisis.\n\nA credit default swap (CDS) is a financial swap agreement that the seller of the CDS will compensate the buyer (the creditor of the reference loan) in the event of a loan default (by the debtor) or other credit event. The buyer of the CDS makes a series of payments (the CDS \"fee\" or \"spread\") to the seller and, in exchange, receives a payoff if the loan defaults. It was invented by Blythe Masters from JP Morgan in 1994.\nIn the event of default the buyer of the CDS receives compensation (usually the face value of the loan), and the seller of the CDS takes possession of the defaulted loan. However, anyone with sufficient collateral to trade with a bank or hedge fund can purchase a CDS, even buyers who do not hold the loan instrument and who have no direct insurable interest in the loan (these are called \"naked\" CDSs). If there are more CDS contracts outstanding than bonds in existence, a protocol exists to hold a credit event auction; the payment received is usually substantially less than the face value of the loan.\nCredit default swaps have existed since the early 1990s, and increased in use after 2003. By the end of 2007, the outstanding CDS amount was $62.2 trillion, falling to $26.3 trillion by mid-year 2010 but reportedly $25.5 trillion in early 2012. CDSs are not traded on an exchange and there is no required reporting of transactions to a government agency. During the 2007-2010 financial crisis the lack of transparency in this large market became a concern to regulators as it could pose a systemic risk.\n\nCDS data can be used by financial professionals, regulators, and the media to monitor how the market views credit risk of any entity on which a CDS is available, which can be compared to that provided by credit rating agencies. U.S. courts may soon be following suit.\nMost CDSs are documented using standard forms drafted by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA), although there are many variants. In addition to the basic, single-name swaps, there are basket default swaps (BDSs), index CDSs, funded CDSs (also called credit-linked notes), as well as loan-only credit default swaps (LCDS). In addition to corporations and governments, the reference entity can include a special-purpose vehicle issuing asset-backed securities.\nSome claim that derivatives such as CDS are potentially dangerous in that they combine priority in bankruptcy with a lack of transparency. A CDS can be unsecured (without collateral) and be at higher risk for a default.\n\nIn finance, a forward contract or simply a forward is a non-standardized contract between two parties to buy or to sell an asset at a specified future time at a price agreed upon today, making it a type of derivative instrument. This is in contrast to a spot contract, which is an agreement to buy or sell an asset on its spot date, which may vary depending on the instrument, for example most of the FX contracts have Spot Date two business days from today. The party agreeing to buy the underlying asset in the future assumes a long position, and the party agreeing to sell the asset in the future assumes a short position. The price agreed upon is called the delivery price, which is equal to the forward price at the time the contract is entered into.\nThe price of the underlying instrument, in whatever form, is paid before control of the instrument changes. This is one of the many forms of buy/sell orders where the time and date of trade is not the same as the value date where the securities themselves are exchanged.\n\nThe forward price of such a contract is commonly contrasted with the spot price, which is the price at which the asset changes hands on the spot date. The difference between the spot and the forward price is the forward premium or forward discount, generally considered in the form of a profit, or loss, by the purchasing party. Forwards, like other derivative securities, can be used to hedge risk (typically currency or exchange rate risk), as a means of speculation, or to allow a party to take advantage of a quality of the underlying instrument which is time-sensitive.\n\nA closely related contract is a futures contract; they differ in certain respects. Forward contracts are very similar to futures contracts, except they are not exchange-traded, or defined on standardized assets. Forwards also typically have no interim partial settlements or \"true-ups\" in margin requirements like futures—such that the parties do not exchange additional property securing the party at gain and the entire unrealized gain or loss builds up while the contract is open. However, being traded over the counter (OTC), forward contracts specification can be customized and may include mark-to-market and daily margin calls. Hence, a forward contract arrangement might call for the loss party to pledge collateral or additional collateral to better secure the party at gain. In other words, the terms of the forward contract will determine the collateral calls based upon certain \"trigger\" events relevant to a particular counterparty such as among other things, credit ratings, value of assets under management or redemptions over a specific time frame (e.g., quarterly, annually).\n\nIn finance, a 'futures contract' (more colloquially, futures) is a standardized contract between two parties to buy or sell a specified asset of standardized quantity and quality for a price agreed upon today (the \"futures price\") with delivery and payment occurring at a specified future date, the \"delivery date\", making it a derivative product (i.e. a financial product that is derived from an underlying asset). The contracts are negotiated at a futures exchange, which acts as an intermediary between buyer and seller. The party agreeing to buy the underlying asset in the future, the \"buyer\" of the contract, is said to be \"long\", and the party agreeing to sell the asset in the future, the \"seller\" of the contract, is said to be \"short\".\n\nWhile the futures contract specifies a trade taking place in the future, the purpose of the futures exchange is to act as intermediary and mitigate the risk of default by either party in the intervening period. For this reason, the futures exchange requires both parties to put up an initial amount of cash (performance bond), the margin. Margins, sometimes set as a percentage of the value of the futures contract, need to be proportionally maintained at all times during the life of the contract to underpin this mitigation because the price of the contract will vary in keeping with supply and demand and will change daily and thus one party or the other will theoretically be making or losing money. To mitigate risk and the possibility of default by either party, the product is marked to market on a daily basis whereby the difference between the prior agreed-upon price and the actual daily futures price is settled on a daily basis. This is sometimes known as the variation margin where the futures exchange will draw money out of the losing party's margin account and put it into the other party's thus ensuring that the correct daily loss or profit is reflected in the respective account. If the margin account goes below a certain value set by the Exchange, then a margin call is made and the account owner must replenish the margin account. This process is known as \"marking to market\". Thus on the delivery date, the amount exchanged is not the specified price on the contract but the spot value (i.e., the original value agreed upon, since any gain or loss has already been previously settled by marking to market). Upon marketing the strike price is often reached and creates lots of income for the \"caller\".\n\nA closely related contract is a forward contract. A forward is like a futures in that it specifies the exchange of goods for a specified price at a specified future date. However, a forward is not traded on an exchange and thus does not have the interim partial payments due to marking to market. Nor is the contract standardized, as on the exchange.\nUnlike an option, both parties of a futures contract must fulfill the contract on the delivery date. The seller delivers the underlying asset to the buyer, or, if it is a cash-settled futures contract, then cash is transferred from the futures trader who sustained a loss to the one who made a profit. To exit the commitment prior to the settlement date, the holder of a futures position can close out its contract obligations by taking the opposite position on another futures contract on the same asset and settlement date. The difference in futures prices is then a profit or loss..\n\nA mortgage-backed security (MBS) is a asset-backed security that is secured by a mortgage, or more commonly a collection (\"pool\") of sometimes hundreds of mortgages. The mortgages are sold to a group of individuals (a government agency or investment bank) that \"securitizes\", or packages, the loans together into a security that can be sold to investors.The mortgages of an MBS may be residential or commercial, depending on whether it is an Agency MBS or a Non-Agency MBS; in the United States they may be issued by structures set up by government-sponsored enterprises like Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or they can be \"private-label\", issued by structures set up by investment banks. The structure of the MBS may be known as \"pass-through\", where the interest and principal payments from the borrower or homebuyer pass through it to the MBS holder, or it may be more complex, made up of a pool of other MBSs. Other types of MBS include collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs, often structured as real estate mortgage investment conduits) and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs).\n\nThe shares of subprime MBSs issued by various structures, such as CMOs, are not identical but rather issued as tranches (French for \"slices\"), each with a different level of priority in the debt repayment stream, giving them different levels of risk and reward. Tranches—especially the lower-priority, higher-interest tranches—of an MBS are/were often further repackaged and resold as collaterized debt obligations. These subprime MBSs issued by investment banks were a major issue in the subprime mortgage crisis of 2006–2008\nThe total face value of an MBS decreases over time, because like mortgages, and unlike bonds, and most other fixed-income securities, the principal in an MBS is not paid back as a single payment to the bond holder at maturity but rather is paid along with the interest in each periodic payment (monthly, quarterly, etc.). This decrease in face value is measured by the MBS's \"factor\", the percentage of the original \"face\" that remains to be repaid.\n\nIn finance, an option is a contract which gives the \"buyer\" (the owner) the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset or instrument at a specified strike price on or before a specified date. The \"seller\" has the corresponding obligation to fulfill the transaction—that is to sell or buy—if the buyer (owner) \"exercises\" the option. The buyer pays a premium to the seller for this right. An option that conveys to the owner the right to buy something at a certain price is a \"call option\"; an option that conveys the right of the owner to sell something at a certain price is a \"put option\". Both are commonly traded, but for clarity, the call option is more frequently discussed.\nOptions valuation is a topic of ongoing research in academic and practical finance. In basic terms, the value of an option is commonly decomposed into two parts:\n\nAlthough options valuation has been studied since the 19th century, the contemporary approach is based on the Black–Scholes model, which was first published in 1973.\n\nOptions contracts have been known for many centuries. However, both trading activity and academic interest increased when, as from 1973, options were issued with standardized terms and traded through a guaranteed clearing house at the Chicago Board Options Exchange. Today, many options are created in a standardized form and traded through clearing houses on regulated options exchanges, while other over-the-counter options are written as bilateral, customized contracts between a single buyer and seller, one or both of which may be a dealer or market-maker. Options are part of a larger class of financial instruments known as derivative products or simply derivatives.\n\nA swap is a derivative in which two counterparties exchange cash flows of one party's financial instrument for those of the other party's financial instrument. The benefits in question depend on the type of financial instruments involved. For example, in the case of a swap involving two bonds, the benefits in question can be the periodic interest (coupon) payments associated with such bonds. Specifically, two counterparties agree to the exchange one stream of cash flows against another stream. These streams are called the swap's \"legs\". The swap agreement defines the dates when the cash flows are to be paid and the way they are accrued and calculated. Usually at the time when the contract is initiated, at least one of these series of cash flows is determined by an uncertain variable such as a floating interest rate, foreign exchange rate, equity price, or commodity price.\n\nThe cash flows are calculated over a notional principal amount. Contrary to a future, a forward or an option, the notional amount is usually not exchanged between counterparties. Consequently, swaps can be in cash or collateral.\nSwaps can be used to hedge certain risks such as interest rate risk, or to speculate on changes in the expected direction of underlying prices.\n\nSwaps were first introduced to the public in 1981 when IBM and the World Bank entered into a swap agreement. Today, swaps are among the most heavily traded financial contracts in the world: the total amount of interest rates and currency swaps outstanding is more than $348 trillion in 2010, according to the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). The five generic types of swaps, in order of their quantitative importance, are: interest rate swaps, currency swaps, credit swaps, commodity swaps and equity swaps (there are many other types).\n\nSome of the salient economic functions of the derivative market include:\nIn a nutshell, there is a substantial increase in savings and investment in the long run due to augmented activities by derivative market participant.\n\nTwo common measures of value are:\n\nFor exchange-traded derivatives, market price is usually transparent (often published in real time by the exchange, based on all the current bids and offers placed on that particular contract at any one time). Complications can arise with OTC or floor-traded contracts though, as trading is handled manually, making it difficult to automatically broadcast prices. In particular with OTC contracts, there is no central exchange to collate and disseminate prices.\n\nThe arbitrage-free price for a derivatives contract can be complex, and there are many different variables to consider. Arbitrage-free pricing is a central topic of financial mathematics. For futures/forwards the arbitrage free price is relatively straightforward, involving the price of the underlying together with the cost of carry (income received less interest costs), although there can be complexities.\n\nHowever, for options and more complex derivatives, pricing involves developing a complex pricing model: understanding the stochastic process of the price of the underlying asset is often crucial. A key equation for the theoretical valuation of options is the Black–Scholes formula, which is based on the assumption that the cash flows from a European stock option can be replicated by a continuous buying and selling strategy using only the stock. A simplified version of this valuation technique is the binomial options model.\n\nOTC represents the biggest challenge in using models to price derivatives. Since these contracts are not publicly traded, no market price is available to validate the theoretical valuation. Most of the model's results are input-dependent (meaning the final price depends heavily on how we derive the pricing inputs).\nTherefore, it is common that OTC derivatives are priced by Independent Agents that both counterparties involved in the deal designate upfront (when signing the contract).\n\nDerivatives are often subject to the following criticisms:\n\nAccording to Raghuram Rajan, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), \"... it may well be that the managers of these firms [investment funds] have figured out the correlations between the various instruments they hold and believe they are hedged. Yet as Chan and others (2005) point out, the lessons of summer 1998 following the default on Russian government debt is that correlations that are zero or negative in normal times can turn overnight to one – a phenomenon they term \"phase lock-in\". A hedged position \"can become unhedged at the worst times, inflicting substantial losses on those who mistakenly believe they are protected\".\n\nThe use of derivatives can result in large losses because of the use of leverage, or borrowing. Derivatives allow investors to earn large returns from small movements in the underlying asset's price. However, investors could lose large amounts if the price of the underlying moves against them significantly. There have been several instances of massive losses in derivative markets, such as the following:\n\nThis comes to a staggering $39.5 billion, the majority in the last decade after the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 was passed.\n\nSome derivatives (especially swaps) expose investors to counterparty risk, or risk arising from the other party in a financial transaction. Different types of derivatives have different levels of counter party risk. For example, standardized stock options by law require the party at risk to have a certain amount deposited with the exchange, showing that they can pay for any losses; banks that help businesses swap variable for fixed rates on loans may do credit checks on both parties. However, in private agreements between two companies, for example, there may not be benchmarks for performing due diligence and risk analysis.\n\nDerivatives typically have a large notional value. As such, there is the danger that their use could result in losses for which the investor would be unable to compensate. The possibility that this could lead to a chain reaction ensuing in an economic crisis was pointed out by famed investor Warren Buffett in Berkshire Hathaway's 2002 annual report. Buffett called them 'financial weapons of mass destruction.' A potential problem with derivatives is that they comprise an increasingly larger notional amount of assets which may lead to distortions in the underlying capital and equities markets themselves. Investors begin to look at the derivatives markets to make a decision to buy or sell securities and so what was originally meant to be a market to transfer risk now becomes a leading indicator.(See Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report for 2002)\n\nUnder US law and the laws of most other developed countries, derivatives have special legal exemptions that make them a particularly attractive legal form to extend credit. The strong creditor protections afforded to derivatives counterparties, in combination with their complexity and lack of transparency however, can cause capital markets to underprice credit risk. This can contribute to credit booms, and increase systemic risks. Indeed, the use of derivatives to conceal credit risk from third parties while protecting derivative counterparties contributed to the financial crisis of 2008 in the United States.\n\nIn the context of a 2010 examination of the ICE Trust, an industry self-regulatory body, Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission which regulates most derivatives, was quoted saying that the derivatives marketplace as it functions now \"adds up to higher costs to all Americans\". More oversight of the banks in this market is needed, he also said. Additionally, the report said, \"[t]he Department of Justice is looking into derivatives, too. The department's antitrust unit is actively investigating 'the possibility of anticompetitive practices in the credit derivatives clearing, trading and information services industries', according to a department spokeswoman.\"\n\nFor legislators and committees responsible for financial reform related to derivatives in the United States and elsewhere, distinguishing between hedging and speculative derivatives activities has been a nontrivial challenge. The distinction is critical because regulation should help to isolate and curtail speculation with derivatives, especially for \"systemically significant\" institutions whose default could be large enough to threaten the entire financial system. At the same time, the legislation should allow for responsible parties to hedge risk without unduly tying up working capital as collateral that firms may better employ elsewhere in their operations and investment. \nIn this regard, it is important to distinguish between financial (e.g. banks) and non-financial end-users of derivatives (e.g. real estate development companies) because these firms' derivatives usage is inherently different. More importantly, the reasonable collateral that secures these different counterparties can be very different. The distinction between these firms is not always straight forward (e.g. hedge funds or even some private equity firms do not neatly fit either category). Finally, even financial users must be differentiated, as 'large' banks may classified as \"systemically significant\" whose derivatives activities must be more tightly monitored and restricted than those of smaller, local and regional banks.\n\nOver-the-counter dealing will be less common as the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act comes into effect. The law mandated the clearing of certain swaps at registered exchanges and imposed various restrictions on derivatives. To implement Dodd-Frank, the CFTC developed new rules in at least 30 areas. The Commission determines which swaps are subject to mandatory clearing and whether a derivatives exchange is eligible to clear a certain type of swap contract.\n\nNonetheless, the above and other challenges of the rule-making process have delayed full enactment of aspects of the legislation relating to derivatives. The challenges are further complicated by the necessity to orchestrate globalized financial reform among the nations that comprise the world's major financial markets, a primary responsibility of the Financial Stability Board whose progress is ongoing.\n\nIn the U.S., by February 2012 the combined effort of the SEC and CFTC had produced over 70 proposed and final derivatives rules. However, both of them had delayed adoption of a number of derivatives regulations because of the burden of other rulemaking, litigation and opposition to the rules, and many core definitions (such as the terms \"swap\", \"security-based swap\", \"swap dealer\", \"security-based swap dealer\", \"major swap participant\" and \"major security-based swap participant\") had still not been adopted. SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro opined: \"At the end of the day, it probably does not make sense to harmonize everything [between the SEC and CFTC rules] because some of these products are quite different and certainly the market structures are quite different.\" On February 11, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) released two final rules toward establishing a reporting and public disclosure framework for security-based swap transaction data. The two rules are not completely harmonized with the requirements with CFTC requirements.\nIn November 2012, the SEC and regulators from Australia, Brazil, the European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, Ontario, Quebec, Singapore, and Switzerland met to discuss reforming the OTC derivatives market, as had been agreed by leaders at the 2009 G-20 Pittsburgh summit in September 2009. In December 2012, they released a joint statement to the effect that they recognized that the market is a global one and \"firmly support the adoption and enforcement of robust and consistent standards in and across jurisdictions\", with the goals of mitigating risk, improving transparency, protecting against market abuse, preventing regulatory gaps, reducing the potential for arbitrage opportunities, and fostering a level playing field for market participants. They also agreed on the need to reduce regulatory uncertainty and provide market participants with sufficient clarity on laws and regulations by avoiding, to the extent possible, the application of conflicting rules to the same entities and transactions, and minimizing the application of inconsistent and duplicative rules. At the same time, they noted that \"complete harmonization – perfect alignment of rules across jurisdictions\" would be difficult, because of jurisdictions' differences in law, policy, markets, implementation timing, and legislative and regulatory processes.\n\nOn December 20, 2013 the CFTC provided information on its swaps regulation \"comparability\" determinations. The release addressed the CFTC's cross-border compliance exceptions. Specifically it addressed which entity level and in some cases transaction-level requirements in six jurisdictions (Australia, Canada, the European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, and Switzerland) it found comparable to its own rules, thus permitting non-US swap dealers, major swap participants, and the foreign branches of US Swap Dealers and major swap participants in these jurisdictions to comply with local rules in lieu of Commission rules.\n\nMandatory reporting regulations are being finalized in a number of countries, such as Dodd Frank Act in the US, the European Market Infrastructure Regulations (EMIR) in Europe, as well as regulations in Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Canada, and other countries. The OTC Derivatives Regulators Forum (ODRF), a group of over 40 worldwide regulators, provided trade repositories with a set of guidelines regarding data access to regulators, and the Financial Stability Board and CPSS IOSCO also made recommendations in with regard to reporting.\n\nDTCC, through its \"Global Trade Repository\" (GTR) service, manages global trade repositories for interest rates, and commodities, foreign exchange, credit, and equity derivatives. It makes global trade reports to the CFTC in the U.S., and plans to do the same for ESMA in Europe and for regulators in Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. It covers cleared and uncleared OTC derivatives products, whether or not a trade is electronically processed or bespoke.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24217233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24217233", "title": "Design World", "text": "Design World\n\nDesign World is a U.S. trade magazine headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio with print and online issues covering topics in the field of OEM design engineering. \"Design World\" also publishes special issues and handbooks on related topics such as motion control, bearings, sensors, packaging, semiconductors, machine tools, energy, fluid power and robotics.\n\n\"Design World\" publishes twelve print editions annually that are sent to a BPA-audited circulation of 40,000 OEM design engineers. The digital version of the magazine is sent monthly to 100,000 subscribers.\n\n\"Design World\" is owned and managed by a publishing company, WTWH Media, originally headquartered in Middleburg Heights, Ohio. The initial editorial team was established on September 1, 2006, with the first issue being published in October 2006.\n\nIn 2007, \"Design World\" created an issue named \"Leadership in Engineering,\" that is published annually in January. This issue nominates inventors, specific departments, and companies exemplifying leadership in the engineering field.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, \"Design World\" was selected as a winner in the APEX Awards for Publication Excellence for best new design and layout.\n\nIn 2009, \"Design World\" won an ASBPF Regional Design Award for business circulations under 80,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "7328421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328421", "title": "Dignity of labour", "text": "Dignity of labour\n\nThe dignity of labour is the philosophy that all types of jobs are respected equally, and no occupation is considered superior and none of the jobs should be discriminated on any basis . Though one's occupation for his or her livelihood involves physical work or mental labour, it is held that the job carries dignity compared to the jobs that involve more intellect than body. Social reformers such as Basava and his contemporary Sharanas, as well as Mahatma Gandhi, were prominent advocates of the dignity of labour.\n\nThe Dignity of Labour is one of the major themes in the Christian ethics, and as such, it is upheld by the Anglican Communion, in Catholic social teaching, in Methodist principles, and in Reformed theology. In Roman Catholicism, usually titled \"The Dignity of work and the rights of workers\" the affirmation of the Dignity of Human Labour is found in several Papal encyclicals, most notably Pope John Paul II's \"Laborem Exercens\" published September 15, 1981.\n"}
{"id": "7977203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7977203", "title": "Engineering economics", "text": "Engineering economics\n\n\"For the application of engineering economics in the practice of civil engineering please see this article.\"\n\nEngineering Economics, previously known as engineering economy, is a subset of economics concerned with the use and \"...application of economic principles\" in the analysis of engineering decisions. As a discipline, it is focused on the branch of economics known as microeconomics in that it studies the behavior of individuals and firms in making decisions regarding the allocation of limited resources. Thus, it focuses on the decision making process, its context and environment. It is pragmatic by nature, integrating economic theory with engineering practice. But, it is also a simplified application of microeconomic theory in that it avoids a number of microeconomic concepts such as price determination, competition and demand/supply. As a discipline though, it is closely related to others such as statistics, mathematics and cost accounting. It draws upon the logical framework of economics but adds to that the analytical power of mathematics and statistics. \n\nEngineers seek solutions to problems, and the economic viability of each potential solution is normally considered along with the technical aspects.\nFundamentally, engineering economics involves formulating, estimating, and evaluating the economic outcomes when alternatives to accomplish a defined purpose are available.\n\nIn some U.S. undergraduate civil engineering curricula, engineering economics is a required course. It is a topic on the Fundamentals of Engineering examination, and questions might also be asked on the Principles and Practice of Engineering examination; both are part of the Professional Engineering registration process.\n\nConsidering the time value of money is central to most engineering economic analyses. Cash flows are \"discounted\" using an interest rate, except in the most basic economic studies.\n\nFor each problem, there are usually many possible \"alternatives\". One option that must be considered in each analysis, and is often the \"choice\", is the \"do nothing alternative\". The \"opportunity cost\" of making one choice over another must also be considered. There are also non-economic factors to be considered, like color, style, public image, etc.; such factors are termed \"attributes\".\n\n\"Costs\" as well as \"revenues\" are considered, for each alternative, for an \"analysis period\" that is either a fixed number of years or the estimated life of the project. The \"salvage value\" is often forgotten, but is important, and is either the net cost or revenue for decommissioning the project.\n\nSome other topics that may be addressed in engineering economics are inflation, uncertainty, replacements, depreciation, resource depletion, taxes, tax credits, accounting, cost estimations, or capital financing. All these topics are primary skills and knowledge areas in the field of cost engineering.\n\nSince engineering is an important part of the manufacturing sector of the economy, engineering industrial economics is an important part of industrial or business economics. Major topics in engineering industrial economics are:\n\n\nSome examples of engineering economic problems range from value analysis to economic studies. Each of these is relevant in different situations, and most often used by engineers or project managers. For example, engineering economic analysis helps a company not only determine the difference between fixed and incremental costs of certain operations, but also calculates that cost, depending upon a number of variables. Further uses of engineering economics include:\n\n\nEach of the previous components of engineering economics is critical at certain junctures, depending on the situation, scale, and objective of the project at hand. Critical path economy, as an example, is necessary in most situations as it is the coordination and planning of material, labor, and capital movements in a specific project. The most critical of these \"paths\" are determined to be those that have affect upon the outcome both in time and cost. Therefore, the critical paths must be determined and closely monitored by engineers and managers alike. Engineering economics helps provide the Gantt charts and activity-event networks to ascertain the correct use of time and resources.\n\nProper value analysis finds its roots in the need for industrial engineers and managers to not only simplify and improve processes and systems, but also the logical simplification of the designs of those products and systems. Though not directly related to engineering economy, value analysis is nonetheless important, and allows engineers to properly manage new and existing systems/processes to make them more simple and save money and time. Further, value analysis helps combat common \"roadblock excuses\" that may trip up managers or engineers. Sayings such as \"The customer wants it this way\" are retorted by questions such as; has the customer been told of cheaper alternatives or methods? \"If the product is changed, machines will be idle for lack of work\" can be combated by; can management not find new and profitable uses for these machines? Questions like these are part of engineering economy, as they preface any real studies or analyses. \n\nLinear programming is the use of mathematical methods to find optimized solutions, whether they be minimized or maximized in nature. This method uses a series of lines to create a polygon then to determine the largest, or smallest, point on that shape. Manufacturing operations often use linear programming to help mitigate costs and maximize profits or production. \n\nConsidering the prevalence of capital to be lent for a certain period of time, with the understanding that it will be returned to the investor, money-time relationships analyze the costs associated with these types of actions. Capital itself must be divided into two different categories, \"equity capital\" and \"debt capital\". Equity capital is money already at the disposal of the business, and mainly derived from profit, and therefore is not of much concern, as it has no owners that demand its return with interest. Debt capital does indeed have owners, and they require that its usage be returned with \"profit\", otherwise known as interest. The interest to be paid by the business is going to be an expense, while the capital lenders will take interest as a profit, which may confuse the situation. To add to this, each will change the income tax position of the participants. \n\nInterest and Money - Time Relationships comes into play when the capital required to complete a project must be either borrowed or derived from reserves. To borrow brings about the question of interest and value created by the completion of the project. While taking capital from reserves also denies its usage on other projects that may yield more results. Interest in the simplest terms is defined by the multiplication of the principle, the units of time, and the interest rate. The complexity of interest calculations, however, becomes much higher as factors such as compounding interest or annuities come into play. \n\nThe fact that assets and material in the real world eventually wear down, and thence break, is a situation that must be accounted for. Depreciation itself is defined by the decreasing of value of any given asset, though some exceptions do exist. Valuation can be considered the basis for depreciation in a basic sense, as any decrease in \"value\" would be based on an \"original value\". The idea and existence of depreciation becomes especially relevant to engineering and project management is the fact that capital equipment and assets used in operations will slowly decrease in worth, which will also coincide with an increase in the likelihood of machine failure. Hence the recording and calculation of depreciation is important for two major reasons. \n\n\nBoth of these reasons, however, cannot make up for the \"fleeting\" nature of depreciation, which make direct analysis somewhat difficult. To further add to the issues associated with depreciation, it must be broken down into three separate types, each having intricate calculations and implications. \n\n\nCalculation of depreciation also comes in a number of forms; \"straight line, declining balance, sum-of-the-year's,\" and \"service output\". The first method being perhaps the easiest to calculate, while the remaining have varying levels of difficulty and utility. Most situations faced by managers in regards to depreciation can be solved using any of these formulas, however, company policy or preference of individual may affect the choice of model. \n\nCapital budgeting, in relation to engineering economics, is the proper usage and utilization of capital to achieve project objectives. It can be fully defined by the statement; \"... as the series of decisions by individuals and firms concerning how much and where resources will be obtained and expended to meet future objectives.\" This definition almost perfectly explains capital and its general relation to engineering, though some special cases may not lend themselves to such a concise explanation. The actual acquisition of that capital has many different routes, from equity to bonds to retained profits, each having unique strengths and weakness, especially when in relation to income taxation. Factors such as risk of capital loss, along with possible or expected returns must also be considered when capital budgeting is underway. For example, if a company has $20,000 to invest in a number of high, moderate, and low risk projects, the decision would depend upon how much risk the company is willing to take on, and if the returns offered by each category offset this perceived risk. Continuing with this example, if the high risk offered only 20% return, while the moderate offered 19% return, engineers and managers would most likely choose the moderate risk project, as its return is far more favorable for its category. The high risk project failed to offer proper returns to warrant its risk status. A more difficult decision may be between a moderate risk offering 15% while a low risk offering 11% return. The decision here would be much more subject to factors such as company policy, extra available capital, and possible investors. \"In general, the firm should estimate the project opportunities, including investment requirements and prospective rates of return for each, expected to be available for the coming period. Then the available capital should be tentatively allocated to the most favorable projects. The lowest prospective rate of return within the capital available then becomes the minimum acceptable rate of return for analyses of any projects during that period.\"\n\nBeing one of the most important and integral operations in the engineering economic field is the minimization of cost in systems and processes. Time, resources, labor, and capital must all be minimized when placed into any system, so that revenue, product, and profit can be maximized. Hence, the general equation;\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere \"C\" is total cost, \"a b\" and \"k\" are constants, and \"x\" is the variable number of units produced. \n\nThere are a great number of cost analysis formulas, each for particular situations and are warranted by the policies of the company in question, or the preferences of the engineer at hand. \n\nEconomic studies, which are much more common outside of engineering economics, are still used from time to time to determine feasibility and utility of certain projects. They do not, however, truly reflect the \"common notion\" of economic studies, which is fixated upon macroeconomics, something engineers have little interaction with. Therefore, the studies conducted in engineering economics are for specific companies and limited projects inside those companies. At most one may expect to find some feasibility studies done by private firms for the government or another business, but these again are in stark contrast to the overarching nature of true economic studies. Studies have a number of major steps that can be applied to almost every type of situation, those being as follows;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11175852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11175852", "title": "Felipe A. Bosch Gutierrez", "text": "Felipe A. Bosch Gutierrez\n\nFelipe A. Bosch Gutierrez (born 1962) was born in Guatemala. He is a Board Member of Corporación Multi Inversiones (CMI), a large agro-industrial conglomerate which, according to an article in El Diario de Hoy, is one of the largest circulating newspapers in El Salvador, and one of the biggest corporations in Central America. Founded in 1920, CMI now has near 30,000 employees, operating in 13 countries with seven divisions: poultry and pork; Pollo Campero and other fast food restaurants; flour mills, pasta and cookie production; construction; renwable power generation and financial services.\n\nHe is listed as a past president of the Committee of Agriculture, Commerce, Industry and Finance Association (CACIF) on the CACIF website, and is also listed as a past president of the Industry Chamber (Cámara de Industria de Guatemala) on the Industry Chamber’s website. According to the Guatemalan newspaper \"Diario La Hora\", Bosch is one of the original directory members who created “Plan Visión de País,” which is an inter-institutional initiative effort to create a long term development plan for the country. Bosch was a regular columnist in \"Siglo Veintiuno\", one of the leading newspapers in Guatemala. He and his companies have also spearheaded various public policy campaigns. Bosch has organized important relief efforts for poor families and orphans in Guatemala, some of which have been reported by \"Diario La Hora\". He is also a member of the President's Leadership Council for the Inter-American Dialogue.\n"}
{"id": "38253054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38253054", "title": "Henrik Andenæs", "text": "Henrik Andenæs\n\nHenrik Andenæs (born 17 September 1950) is a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Oslo, and took the siv.øk. degree at the Norwegian School of Economics in 1975. He worked in the United States for Kreditkassen from 1985 to 1987, was vice chief executive in Ringnes from 1987 to 1990, then chief executive of LOOC from 1990 to 1994. From 1994 to 1997 he worked in Singapore for the Orkla Group, and in October 1998 he was hired as information director in Norsk Hydro.\n\nHe was later the chief executive of \"Troms Fylkes Dampskipsselskap\" when it merged with \"Ofotens og Vesteraalens Dampskibsselskab\" in 2006 to form the Hurtigruten Group. He became vice chief executive, but already in April 2006 he advanced to chief executive. In April 2007 Andenæs resigned here. In December 2007 he was selected as chairman of the 41st Chess Olympiad in Tromsø, which was in the bidding process at the time. In June 2008 he became chairman of Ludwig Mack, the holding company of Macks Ølbryggeri.\n\nFollowing the 1994 Winter Olympics he was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav together with LOOC's vice chief executive Petter Rønningen.\n"}
{"id": "1057887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1057887", "title": "Ivana Trump", "text": "Ivana Trump\n\nIvana Marie Trump (\"née\" Zelníčková; , born February 20, 1949) is a Czech former model and businesswoman, who was the first wife of Donald Trump. They married in 1977 and divorced in 1992. They have three children together, Donald Trump Jr., Ivanka Trump, and Eric Trump.\n\nIvana Zelníčková was born on February 20, 1949 in the Moravian town of Zlín (formerly known as Gottwaldov), Czechoslovakia, the daughter of Miloš Zelníček, who was Czech, and Marie Francová, who was Austrian. From the age of 13, her father nurtured and encouraged her skiing talent. In the early 1970s, she attended Charles University in Prague.\n\nAccording to Zelníčková, she was selected as an alternate on the Czechoslovak ski team during the 1972 Winter Olympics, her specialties being the downhill and slalom. However, in 1989, Petr Pomezný, Secretary General of the Czechoslovak Olympic Committee, said, \"Who is this Ivana woman, and why do people keep calling us about her? We have searched so many times and have consulted many, many people, and there is no such girl in our records.\"\n\nIn 1971, Zelníčková married Austrian ski instructor Alfred Winkelmayr to enable her to leave Communist Czechoslovakia. She received her Austrian passport in March 1972 and left for Canada in September 1972. The marriage was formally dissolved in 1973. In Canada she lived with her boyfriend George (Jiři) Syrovatka whom she had been dating since 1967 and who had emigrated to Canada in 1972 and owned a ski boutique in Montreal. For the following two years, she lived in Montreal, improved her English by taking night courses at McGill University, and worked as a model. Her modeling jobs included promoting the 1976 Summer Olympics that were being hosted in Montreal.\nIn this capacity Zelníčková was in New York City with a group of models in 1976 where she met Donald Trump. They were married in 1977 in a lavish wedding officiated by Norman Vincent Peale. Donald and Ivana Trump became leading figures in New York society during the 1980s. They worked on several large projects, including the renovation of the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York City, construction of the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and the Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.\n\nThey had three children: Donald Trump Jr. (born December 31, 1977), Ivanka Trump (born October 30, 1981), and Eric Trump (born January 6, 1984). Donald Jr. learned to speak fluent Czech (with help of his maternal grandfather), while daughter Ivanka has only basic understanding of her mother's native tongue and Eric was not exposed to the language because at the time of his birth his grandparents were already comfortable enough in using English. Ivana has nine grandchildren.\n\nIvana took a major role in The Trump Organization. She became the Vice President of Interior Design for the company, leading the signature design of Trump Tower. Afterwards, her then-husband appointed her to head up the Trump Castle Hotel and Casino as president. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1988.\n\nIn October 1990, Ivana Trump's 63-year-old father died suddenly from a heart attack. According to The Guardian, her father - Miloš Zelníček - was an informer for Czechoslovakia's Státní bezpečnost (StB) intelligence service and relayed information from Ivana Trump, including a prediction that George HW Bush would win the 1988 presidential election. Ivana stood side-by-side with her husband Donald at the funeral in Prague. Jaroslav Jansa, codename \"Jarda\" and secret collaborator to the StB also attended the funeral. That Christmas, when the family was on vacation in Aspen, Colorado, Ivana Trump encountered Marla Maples on the ski slopes.\nThe Trumps' divorce proceedings appeared on New York tabloid newspapers' covers for 11 days in a row, and Liz Smith wrote about nothing else for three months. Their divorce, in a deposition for which she accused him of rape and of pulling out handfuls of her hair, was settled in 1991. However, in 2018, in a TV interview on Good Morning Britain she stated that Donald Trump never touched her badly and that it was in fact the lawyers who had suggested to make these false accusations. A condition of settlement was that she not talk about their marriage without his permission. The divorce was finalized in 1992.\n\nIn 1995, she married Riccardo Mazzucchelli. She filed a $15 million breach of contract suit against Mazzucchelli for violating the confidentiality clause in their prenuptial agreement. In 1997, Mazzucchelli sued Ivana and Donald for libel.\n\nIn the summer of 1997, she began dating Roffredo Gaetani; that continued until his death in 2005.\n\nIn April 2008, Ivana, then 59, married Rossano Rubicondi, then 36. The $3 million wedding for 400 guests was hosted by ex-husband Donald Trump at his Mar-a-Lago estate. Daughter Ivanka Trump was her maid of honor. On December 1, 2008, Ivana confirmed to the Associated Press that she had filed a legal separation agreement three months previously; she has stated in interviews that she and her husband have an on-again/off-again relationship. In December 2009, she said she had filed for divorce from Rubicondi; the couple has continued to be seen together as recently as May 5, 2018.\n\nSoon after her divorce from Donald Trump in 1992, she developed lines of clothing, fashion jewelry and beauty products that have been sold through television shopping channels.\n\nIn 2005, Trump was involved in several proposed condominium projects that ultimately failed, including the never-built Ivana Las Vegas, and the Bentley Bay in Miami, Florida.\n\nIn 2010, she sued the Finnish fashion company, Ivana Helsinki, accusing it of selling women's clothing that incorporates her name without permission.\n\nShe has written several novels, including, \"For Love Alone\" (1992), \"Free to Love\" (1993) and a self-help book called, \"The Best is Yet to Come: Coping with Divorce and Enjoying Life Again\" (1995).\n\nIn June 1995, she began writing an advice column for \"Globe\", titled Ask Ivana, about love and life. In 1998, she bought 33% of Croatia's second-largest daily newspaper - with a circulation of 100,000 - she used to travel with her parents from the Czech Republic to Croatia on vacation. In February 1999, she launched her own lifestyle magazine titled \"Ivana's Living in Style\". In 2001, she contributed an advice column for \"Divorce\" magazine. In January 2010, Trump ended her advice column in \"Globe\" to pursue other business interests.\n\nIn 2017, she released an autobiography, \"Raising Trump\", that covers her own upbringing and the early years of raising her children with Donald Trump.\n\nShe played a cameo role in the Hollywood film \"The First Wives Club\" (1996) with the line, \"Ladies you have to be strong and independent. And remember: don't get mad, get everything.\"\n\nShe was the host of Oxygen Network's reality-dating program \"Ivana Young Man\", which aired in 2006.\n\nIn 2008, she was a boardroom advisor on \"The Apprentice\".\n\nIn 2010, Trump took part in the UK's \"Celebrity Big Brother\", finishing seventh.\n\n"}
{"id": "9171958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9171958", "title": "John Davis Lodge", "text": "John Davis Lodge\n\nJohn Davis Lodge (October 20, 1903 – October 29, 1985), was an American lawyer, actor, politician, and diplomat. He was the 79th Governor of Connecticut from 1951 to 1955, and later served as U.S. Ambassador to Spain, Argentina, and Switzerland. As an actor, he was often credited simply as John Lodge. He had roles in four Hollywood films between 1933 and 1935, including playing Marlene Dietrich's lover in \"The Scarlet Empress\" and Shirley Temple's father in \"The Little Colonel\". He starred or co-starred in many British and European films between 1935 and 1940.\n\nLodge was a member of four prominent political families in the Northeast U.S.: the Cabot, Lodge, Frelinghuysen and Davis families. He was a direct descendant of at least seven U.S. senators, and had many other politicians in his family, including his brother, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr..\n\nLodge was born in Washington, D.C. His father was George Cabot Lodge, a poet, who was a scion of the prominent Cabot and Lodge families of Boston. Through his father, Lodge was a grandson of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, great-great grandson of Senator Elijah H. Mills, and great-great-great-grandson of Senator George Cabot. His mother, Mathilda Elizabeth Frelinghuysen Davis, was a scion of the Frelinghuysen and Davis families. Through his mother, he was a great-great grandson of Senator John Davis, a great-grandson of Senator Frederick Theodore Frelinghuysen, a great-great grandson of Senator Theodore Frelinghuysen, and a great-great-great grandson of Senator Frederick Frelinghuysen. He had two siblings: Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., also a politician, and Helena Lodge de Streel, a baroness.\n\nLodge attended the Evans School for Boys in Mesa, Arizona, Middlesex School, Concord, Massachusetts, Ecole de Droit, Paris, France, and St. Albans School, Washington, D.C. In 1925, he graduated from Harvard College, where he was a member of the Fox Club. In 1929, he graduated from Harvard Law School. In 1932, he was admitted to the New York bar and commenced practice in New York City.\n\nDuring the 1930s and after a brief career as a lawyer Lodge worked as an actor on screen and stage, appearing in starring roles in several notable productions, including some major Hollywood pictures.\n\nLodge was affiliated with the motion picture industry and the theater from 1933 to 1942, appearing in movies such as \"Little Women\" and \"The Little Colonel\" in which he played Shirley Temple's father. He was Marlene Dietrich's co-star in \"The Scarlet Empress\". Lodge appeared in several European-made films, in France and the United Kingdom, playing Bulldog Drummond in the 1937 film \"Bulldog Drummond at Bay\". A fluent French speaker, he performed his roles in French in Maurice Tourneur's \"Koenigsmark\" (1935) and in Max Ophüls's \"De Mayerling à Sarajevo\", in which he played the part of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (1940). In 1941, after returning to the United States, he appeared in several Broadway stage productions, including Lillian Hellman's \"Watch on the Rhine\".\n\nLodge served in the United States Navy as a lieutenant and lieutenant commander from August 1942 to January 1946, and was a liaison officer between the French and American fleets. He was decorated with the rank of Chevalier in the French Legion of Honor and with the Croix de Guerre 1939–1945 with palm by General Charles de Gaulle. After the war he engaged in research work in economics. He retired from the United States Navy Reserve in 1966 with the rank of Captain.\n\nLodge was elected as a Republican from Connecticut's 4th congressional district to the 80th and 81st Congresses, serving from January 3, 1947 to January 3, 1951. He did not run for a third term in 1950, choosing instead to run for Governor of Connecticut. He ran against incumbent governor Chester Bowles and defeated him in what was described as a \"bitter\" election, in which Lodge sought to portray Bowles as an extreme left-winger. Lodge served as governor from January 1951 to January 1955; he was the first governor of Connecticut to serve after the state's rules were changed to have elections every four years instead of every two years.\n\nHe was a delegate to the Republican National Convention from Connecticut in 1952 and 1960.\n\nLodge ran for re-election in 1954, but lost to Democrat Abraham Ribicoff. Local legend is that the proximate cause of Lodge's defeat was disenchantment on the part of Fairfield County Republicans with the disruption caused by the construction of the Connecticut Turnpike. The highway is now officially named the \"Governor John Davis Lodge Turnpike\".\n\nAfter stepping down as governor, Lodge was appointed United States Ambassador to Spain by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, where he served from January 1955 until the end of Eisenhower's term in office in January 1961. Lodge was the national president of the non-profit organization Junior Achievement, Inc. from 1963 to 1964.\n\nLodge ran for the U.S. Senate in the 1964 election. He won the Republican nomination, but lost to incumbent senator Thomas J. Dodd, 35.34% to 64.66%. He served as chairman of the Committee Foreign Policy Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania, 1964–1969; delegate and assistant floor leader, Connecticut Constitutional Convention, in 1965; United States Ambassador to Argentina, 1969 to 1974; and United States Ambassador to Switzerland, 1983.\n\nHe was married July 6, 1929, to actress and ballet dancer, Francesca Braggiotti; both of them appearing in the 1938 film \"Tonight at Eleven\". They had two daughters, Lily and Beatrice. Lily Lodge is the Director of the Actors Conservatory. He was a resident of Westport, Connecticut until his death in New York City. He was interred in Arlington National Cemetery. Two months after his death, the Connecticut Turnpike was renamed the Gov. John Davis Lodge Turnpike in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21816314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21816314", "title": "John Jay Jackson Jr.", "text": "John Jay Jackson Jr.\n\nJohn Jay Jackson Jr. (August 4, 1824 – September 2, 1907) was a United States federal judge, first from Virginia, and then from West Virginia, at the time of its creation as a separate state.\n\nBorn in Parkersburg, Virginia (now Parkersburg, West Virginia), Jackson graduated from Princeton University in 1845, and read law to enter the Bar in Virginia in 1847. Jackson's father, General John Jay Jackson of Wood County, attended the Wheeling Convention on West Virginia statehood. Jackson's brother Jacob Beeson Jackson served as governor of West Virginia and his other brother was Circuit Judge and Congressman James Monroe Jackson. He was a cousin of Stonewall Jackson. His grandfather, John George Jackson, preceded him as judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia. His great-grandfathers included George Jackson. The Jackson Memorial Fountain at Parkersburg is dedicated to the Jackson family.\n\nJackson was in private practice in Wirt County, Virginia from 1847 to 1848, and a prosecuting attorney for Wirt County in 1848. He was a Commonwealth attorney of Ritchie County, Virginia from 1849 to 1850, then returned to private practice in Wood County, Virginia until 1851. He was a Member, of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1851 to 1855, and then returned to private practice, in Parkersburg until 1861.\n\nOn July 26, 1861, President Abraham Lincoln nominated Jackson to a seat on the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia vacated by John W. Brockenbrough, who had resigned to join the Confederate government. Jackson was confirmed by the United States Senate on August 3, 1861, and received his commission the same day. At the time of Jackson's appointment, Virginia and West Virginia were still a single state. However, early in the course of the American Civil War, the western portion of Virginia rejected Virginia's secession from the United States, and itself seceded from Virginia. This area largely coincided with the existing Western District of Virginia. West Virginia was thereafter admitted as a state on June 20, 1863, and on June 11, 1864, by 13 Stat. 124, the court for the Western District of Virginia became the United States District Court for the District of West Virginia. Those parts of the Western District that were not part of West Virginia were combined with the Eastern District to again form a single District of Virginia. After 1864, the only federal judge for Virginia was John Curtiss Underwood. There was no Western District of Virginia from 1864 until 1871, when Alexander Rives took the bench after the Western District was re-established following the War.\n\nJackson was reassigned by operation of law to the newly formed United States District Court for the District of West Virginia. Notwithstanding his status as a Republican appointee, Judge Jackson ruled in 1870 that West Virginia's ex-Confederates were eligible to vote under the Fifteenth Amendment, which had profound effects on the polity in West Virginia.\n\nOn July 1, 1901, the District of West Virginia was subdivided into the United States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia and the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia; Jackson was reassigned to the Northern District, until his retirement on March 15, 1905, at the age of 80. Because he had served from before the creation of the District of West Virginia until after its subdivision, Jackson was the only judge to ever sit on the United States District Court for the District of West Virginia. Having served for nearly forty-four years, including over forty years in the federal courts in West Virginia, Jackson was known as \"the Iron Judge\". He was the longest-serving judge appointed by Lincoln.\n\nJackson died in 1907, in Atlantic City, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "21550967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550967", "title": "John Thomson Mason", "text": "John Thomson Mason\n\nJohn Thomson Mason (15 March 1765 – 10 December 1824) was an American lawyer and Attorney General of Maryland in 1806.\n\nMason was born on 15 March 1765 at Chopawamsic in Stafford County, Virginia. He was the third child and youngest son of Thomson Mason and his wife Mary King Barnes.\n\nMason attained high rank at the bar, but twice declined the office of United States Attorney General when it was offered by Presidents Thomas Jefferson and James Madison. Mason ran for one of Maryland's seats in the United States Senate, but lost. He then served as Attorney General of Maryland in 1806.\n\nMason married Elizabeth Beltzhoover in 1797. He and Elizabeth had seven children:\n\n\nMason died on 10 December 1824 at the age of 59. Mason was interred at his Montpelier estate in Clear Spring, Maryland.\n\nJohn Thomson Mason was a nephew of George Mason (1725–1792); son of Thomson Mason (1733–1785); brother of Stevens Thomson Mason (1760–1803); half-brother of William Temple Thomson Mason (1782–1862); first cousin of George Mason V (1753–1796); first cousin once removed of Thomson Francis Mason (1785–1838), George Mason VI (1786–1834), Richard Barnes Mason (1797–1850), and James Murray Mason (1798–1871); uncle of Armistead Thomson Mason (1787–1819) and John Thomson Mason (1787–1850); father of John Thomson Mason Jr. (1815–1873); and great uncle of Stevens Thomson Mason (1811–1843).\n"}
{"id": "39425576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39425576", "title": "Johnny Ronan", "text": "Johnny Ronan\n\nJohn Ronan is an Irish businessman and property developer. Ronan began his education at Castleknock College. He went on to train as a Chartered Accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers and by his 20s was already involved in property deals with his father, who was also a developer.\n\nRonan teamed up with Richard Barret from Mayo to form Treasury Holdings in 1989. The company was one of the largest Irish commercial developers and known for landmark buildings on Dublin's skyline. Treasury Holdings' first serious development was the Treasury Building on Grand Canal Street on Dublin’s southside.\n\nThe duo became a formidable force, running more than 50 projects in development including the Spencer Dock development, phase 2 of Central Park in Leopardstown and the development of 2,000 homes and an 11-acre public park near Foxrock.\n\nAmong Treasury Holdings’ other high profile developments were the Google Headquarters, the Convention Centre Dublin, the Ritz Carlton and the award winning residential tower Altro Vetro.\n\nThe Convention Centre Dublin was Ireland’s first purpose built international conference centre. It was developed as a public private partnership between Spencer Dock Development Company Ltd and the Office of Public Works (OPW). It opened in September 2010 and has since hosted numerous events including the European People’s Party Congress in 2014, which was attended by 17 heads of state.\n\nReal Estate Opportunities, majority owned by Treasury Holdings, was responsible for building and agreeing with the sale of the Montevetro office building on Barrow Street in Dublin to Google for €99.9m in cash. It was Dublin's tallest commercial office building at the time.\n\nIn November 2006, Real Estate Opportunities (in which Treasury Holdings had a 60% stake) purchased Battersea Power Station and the surrounding land for €532 million (£400 million). This was Treasury’s biggest single scheme and in 2012 it secured the largest planning permission ever granted in central London – approximately 8.5 million square feet of residential, office and retail space masterplanned by Uruguayan architect Rafael Viñoly. The scheme also includes an extension of the Northern Line Underground. On 30 November 2011, it was officially announced that the scheme’s lenders Lloyds Bank and Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency (NAMA) would put it into Administration. It was subsequently sold to a Malaysian consortium led by SP Setia, which had been in negotiations with Treasury Holdings prior to the Administration to buy the scheme. Setia hired the Treasury management team and have commenced building the Treasury scheme.\n\nIn October 2012 the High Court appointed liquidators to Treasury Holdings and 16 related companies. The move followed a decision by Treasury not to resist a winding-up application by one of its banks, KBC, over a debt of €55m. Treasury had debts of €2.7bn, €1.7bn of which was owed to the National Asset Management Agency (NAMA).\n\nJohnny Ronan retained substantial assets not in Treasury Holdings and in April 2015 these were refinanced in a €300 million deal with backing from Colony Capital, M&G Investments, and Deutsche Bank. Ronan repaid his debts at par and exited NAMA. The refinancing for the deal was secured on RGRE’s portfolio of 24 assets in Dublin - including three Grafton Street retail properties, the Treasury Building, a number of other buildings in Dublin 2, Kilmore House in Spencer Dock, and Connaught House in Burlington Road.\n\nJohn Ronan owns and runs Ronan Group Real Estate (RGRE). RGRE is currently working on several notable ventures in Ireland and these have a combined worth of more than €1bn. The projects include the €150m Vertium office building on Dublin's Burlington Road and a €350m office campus adjacent to AIB's headquarters in Ballsbridge. Ronan has also signed off on a €600m deal to develop Spencer Place, on Dublin’s North Docks which will be Dublin’s biggest property development since 2008. There are also plans to construct a 22-storey Aqua Vetro tower adjoining Tara Street Dart Station. A report submitted by Prof Gurdgiev of Trinity College Dublin stated that an 'upside' scenario for the development will provide a total annual economic impact of €296m a year. Knight Frank also indicated support for the development by stating that Dublin can cement its position as a global technology, media and telecommunications centre if it can supply the right type of office space that is demanded by the market. The firm noted the Tara Street development to be the best example of a building that can meet the needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "25973877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25973877", "title": "Keith Brackpool", "text": "Keith Brackpool\n\nKeith Brackpool (born 1957) is a British-American investor and business executive. After starting his career as an investment banker and CEO for Albert Fisher's North American operations, he co-founded the water resource company Cadiz Inc. in 1983, holding a number of executive positions including CEO, and is currently chairman of the board. In 1989 he started the company 1334 Partners LP., which owns and invests in residential and commercial properties in California. From 2013 - 2018 he served as a shareholder and executive board member for the Stronach Group, a thoroughbred horse-racing company, and chairman of West Coast operations, including Golden Gate Fields and Santa Anita Park racetracks. Brackpool has also held public policy positions in California, including co-chairman of the Agriculture and Water Transition Task Force in the administration of California Governor Gray Davis, a member of the Commission on Building for the 21st Century, and chairman of the California Horse Racing Board.\n\nKeith Brackpool was born in 1957 in England, with his childhood spent in Surrey and London. Described by \"The Guardian\" as “a buccaneering self-made businessman,\" in the 1980s he came to the United States as an investment banker. In the United States he headed the American division of the food distribution company Albert Fisher, serving as both director and CEO of North American Operations from 1989 until 1991. In 1983, Brackpool partnered with geologist Mark Liggett to found Cadiz Inc., a company focused on locating water sources for development and sale to municipalities. Studying satellite images, Liggett located an aquifer in the Mojave desert and Cadiz bought a patchwork of plots from the railroads in the area, amassing 55 square miles of \"creosote crumb.\" Brackpool became a Cadiz Inc. director in September 1986. In 1989 he started the company 1334 Partners LP., which owns commercial real estate, and was a shareholder in a Polly Peck subsidiary.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Cadiz developed a water transport plan that involved storing excess water from the Colorado River in an aquifer on Cadiz property, with the water to be sold to California communities during droughts. The proposal was developed with and then pitched to the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (MET) of southern California, and at the time was considered “the largest public-private project in the state's history.\" In 2001 Brackpool was appointed chairman of the Cadiz Inc. board of directors in addition to his roles as president and CEO. After federal approval of the project in 2002, controversy surrounded the water proposal, with critics such as Senator Dianne Feinstein disagreeing with the U.S. Interior Department’s assessment that \"any negative effects on the environment could be prevented.\"\n\nDuring early processing of the water proposal with MET, Cadiz was also involved in agricultural development. In 1993, Cadiz secured permits from San Bernardino County to expand its agricultural operations and develop up to 9,600 acres of its properties in the Mojave Desert. In 1996 the Cadiz Land Company acquired Sun World International Inc., which had been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection since 1994. At the time, Cadiz Land grew fruit and vegetables and owned 42,000 acres in Southern California. Brackpool also expanded into international projects, exploring a development in Egypt which the company hoped would \"become the largest single agricultural project in the world.\" In 1998 Brackpool was appointed co-chairman of the Agriculture and Water Transition Task Force in the administration of California governor Gray Davis, and in 1999 Davis appointed him to the Commission on Building for the 21st Century. In October 2002 the board of the MET voted against the project \"by a razor-thin margin.\" Sun World filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in early 2003 and was sold by Cadiz in 2005 to Black Diamond Capital Management for $127.8 million.\n\nIn 2009, Cadiz announced a new project design focused on supplying fresh water solely from the Cadiz aquifer to 400,000 Southern Californians. According to Cadiz, the Cadiz Valley Water Conservation Recovery and Storage Project would pump groundwater before it evaporates and deliver it via an underground pipeline stretching 43 miles, to be constructed within an existing railroad corridor. Brackpool stepped down as president of Cadiz Inc. on April 12, 2011, while the proposal was still in its environmental review phase, with colleague Scott Slater taking over. He remained CEO and chairman. The Santa Margarita Water District approved the project’s environmental documents in July 2012, followed by approval of the project by the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors in October 2012. \n\nIn 2013, Slater assumed the CEO role, while Brackpool remained chairman of the Cadiz board. The project faced several lawsuits between 2012 and 2014 brought by environmental groups and local oil and gas operatives that mine the desert for salt. In May 2014, the Superior Court rejected all claims against the project and upheld the approvals. These rulings were subsequently appealed to the California Court of Appeal, which sustained the lower court rulings in May 2016 and upheld the project's approvals. The project approval process proved politically controversial. Under a Trump Administration change of policy, the project may not have to undergo federal review. As of 2018, Brackpool continues to serve as chairman of the Cadiz board.\n\nBrackpool was appointed to the California Horse Racing Board (CHRB) by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on September 24, 2009, and he was elected chairman on January 15, 2010. \nLater in 2010, Brackpool stated at a California Thoroughbred Breeders Association and Oak Tree Racing Association conference that the racing industry needed to increase audience attendance by improving the onsite experience. He also argued for exchange wagering as an alternative to “ontrack casino wagering,\" stating \"if you could merge British racing experience with the American football model, you would have the greatest thing you could experience.\" Along with other members of the board, Brackpool worked for greater distribution of races through channels such as HRTV and TVG.\nIn January 2013, Brackpool left his role as chairman of the CHRB and became a shareholder and member of the executive board at the Stronach Group. He was appointed chairman and head of Stronach Group’s operations on the west coast, which includes the Golden Gate Fields and Santa Anita Park racetracks. In his position with the Stronach Group in 2013 he oversaw the restoration and expansion of San Luis Rey Downs, which had seen a surge of activity as a training center after the closure of nearby Hollywood Park. \n\nIn 2013 Brackpool was temporarily named CEO of the Santa Anita racetrack. In the summer of 2013, Brackpool renovated Santa Anita Park, and thoroughbred horse racing returned to the park in September. He explained that the renovations “were centered around improving the audiovisual experience at the track\" as well as visitor experience, with the clubhouse, sports bar, and Chandelier Room upgraded. In 2013, Brackpool renovated Santa Anita Park. According to \"Daily Racing Form\", the renovations met with “generally positive reviews.\" In December 2013, Santa Anita began installing a new dirt track surface, after changes in state legislation made synthetic turf no longer a requirement. Attendance at Santa Anita improved over the following two years. Along with his Santa Anita roles, through his positions at Stronach Brackpool was chairman of Golden Gate Fields and chairman of the Los Angeles Turf Club. At the conclusion of a five year term, in April 2018, Brackpool stepped down from his positions at Stronach.\n\nPersonally invested in a number of real estate projects, since 1989 Brackpool has owned 1334 Partners LP., which holds commercial real estate. Brackpool was the longtime owner of the Manhattan Country Club, which has hosted since 1994 the annual Manhattan Wine Auction, a popular fundraising event. In June 2017, Brackpool sold the Manhattan Country Club to Bay Club Co. for $73 million.\n\nBrackpool and Stronach are involved in litigation over the amount due Brackpool from his time at Stronach, estimated to be around $40 million.\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", early in his career Brackpool “breached financial disclosure laws” in the United Kingdom.\n\nA single father of two children, Brackpool lives in California. Brackpool is an active thoroughbred owner with both personal ownership of race horses and a stakeholder position in Golden Pegasus Racing, a partnership with other Stronach Group executive board members. In January 2014, Brackpool's horse Gervinho competed in the Grade II Sir Beaufort Stakes with jockey Rafael Bejarano, winning the $200,000 purse. Other notable horses owned by Brackpool have included Dynaformer’s sons Kolo and Bolo, who both won the Santa Anita Eddie Logan Stakes at two years of age. In February 2016 Bolo won the Grade 2 Arcadia Handicap at Santa Anita in an upset.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12514034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514034", "title": "Koh Eng Tong", "text": "Koh Eng Tong\n\nKoh Eng Tong (1921-2006) was a Malaysian athlete, professional photographer and founder of Eng Tong System Sdn. Bhd, a supplier of professional photographic equipment and other products in Malaysia. He won the first Commonwealth Games gold medal for Malaya and was instrumental in bringing Malaysian sports to world prominence.\n\nIn 1950, Koh Eng Tong won Malaya's first Gold Medal at the 1950 British Empire Games in Weightlifting (featherweight) held in Auckland, New Zealand. At these games he lifted 310.5 kg (684.5 lbs) to win the featherweight Gold.\n\nAlthough at the time, Malaya was not yet an independent country, the British Government in Malaya allowed an organised a team of four weightlifters from Malaya to participate for the first time in the Games under the Union Jack. The 1950 games was also the first occasion weightlifting was introduced. Due to the absence of a sports organisation, the weightlifters had to pay their own expenses to participate at the games. All four lifters medaled, bringing back 2 gold, 1 silver, and 1 bronze.\n\nIn 1951, he was rated one of the top ten Featherweight Lifters in the World.\n\nIn 1954, due to lack of financial support, Malaya could not participate in the 1954 British Empire and Commonwealth Games held in Vancouver, and Koh was not given an opportunity to defend his title, which might have resulted in a repeat victory. The 1954 winning weight in the featherweight category was 690 lbs, 5 lbs more than the total achieved by Koh Eng Tong in 1950.\n\nMalaya was officially recognised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 1954. Mr. Koh was among a contingent of 33 athletes sent by the Federation of Malaya Olympic Council to participate in the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne.\n\nAlthough 6 years removed from his gold medal performance at the British Empire games. Mr. Koh represented Malaya in the featherweight weightlifting category. It was the first of two Olympic appearance by the nation under the Malaya name. He lifted 285 kg (628 lbs), well off his personal best during his prime and finish in 17th place.\n\nIn 1994, Eng Tong was recognised by the Olympic Council of Malaysia and inducted to the Hall of Fame.\nMr. Koh presented to Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM) with a classic photo which he took in the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne.\n\"Iron Man of Malaya\"\n\nWhen Kuala Lumpur hosted the 1998 Commonwealth Games Eng Tong was honoured by becoming the Queen's Baton Relay Final Runner for these games, who at 77 handed the baton which contained the Queen's message to Prince Edward, the Queen's representative and Commonwealth Games Federation president.\n\nThe games were the first hosted by an Asian country and for the first time in the history of the games that all 70 Commonwealth countries took part.\n\nHe is survived by his wife, three sons, one daughter, and ten grandchildren.\n\n\"Spouse\" - Wong Yoke Lan\n\"Sons\" - Ronnie Koh, Tony Koh, and Jerry Koh\n\"Daughter\" - Maureen Chin\n\"Grandchildren\" - Kevin Koh, Mervin Koh, Tracy Koh, Cindy Koh, Wendy Koh, Malcolm Koh, Patrick Koh, Darren Chin, Sharon Chin, and Brian Chin.\n"}
{"id": "35241191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35241191", "title": "Langley Gold Medal", "text": "Langley Gold Medal\n\nThe Langley Gold Medal, or Samuel P. Langley Medal for Aerodromics, is an award given by the Smithsonian Institution for outstanding contributions to the sciences of aeronautics and astronautics. Named in honor of Samuel P. Langley, the Smithsonian's third Secretary, it was authorized by the Board of Regents in 1909.\n\nThe medal was suggested by Alexander Graham Bell. It is awarded for \"meritorious investigations in connection with the science of aerodromics and its application to aviation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41790328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41790328", "title": "Liban Abdi Egal", "text": "Liban Abdi Egal\n\nLiban Abdi Egal (, ) is a Somali entrepreneur. He is the founder and Chairman of First Somali Bank (FSB), established in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "57053648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57053648", "title": "List of companies founded by Harvard University alumni", "text": "List of companies founded by Harvard University alumni\n\nThis is a list of companies founded by Harvard University alumni, including attendees who enrolled in degree programs at Harvard University but did not eventually graduate. Companies founded by alumni of Radcliffe College (\"Harvard Annex\", 1879-1999) are not included in this list. This list is not exhaustive, as it only includes notable companies of which the founding and development history is well recorded by reliable sources. In particular, subsidiaries are listed with their owners in parentheses.\n\nHarvard University is a highly successful university in attracting funding for start-up companies, and its alumni have created a large number of companies. According to PitchBook, from 2006 to 2017, Harvard produced 844 company founders as alumni or current students, creating 750 companies, fourth most among all universities in the world.\n\nIn this list, founders of a company which merged with other companies to form a new company are counted as founders of the new company. However, founders of a company which later dissolved into several successor companies are \"not\" counted as founders of those successor companies; this same rule applies to spin-off companies. Finally, a defunct company is a company that had stopped functioning completely (e.g., bankrupt) without dissolving, merging or being acquired. \n\nThis list shows companies in Fortune Global 500 founded or co-founded by Harvard alumni. The cut-off revenue for 2017 Fortune Global 500 companies is $21,609M in 2016.\n\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\nThis list shows companies in Fortune 1000 (only for companies within the U.S.) founded or co-founded by Harvard alumni. The cut-off revenue for 2017 Fortune 1000 companies was $1,791M in 2016.\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\n<nowiki>**:</nowiki> \n\nFor each company, only the latest rankings (up to three years) are shown in this list.\nThis index also contains companies listed in section \"Notable defunct & dissolved\". \n\n"}
{"id": "53294328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53294328", "title": "Luigi Ferraris (businessman)", "text": "Luigi Ferraris (businessman)\n\nLuigi Ferraris (Legnano, 1962) is an Italian executive, Chief Executive Officer of Terna S.p.A. since April 2017. CEO of Enersis from 2014 to 2015, ex - Chairman of Enel Green Power, CFO of Enel Group and current Chief Financial Officer of Poste Italiane Group. Luigi Ferraris was also Chairman of Enel Green Power S.p.A. as well as Operating Chairman of Enel Factor S.p.A. In 2015 Luigi Ferraris was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Poste Italiane Group, in charge of managing its privatization process, one of the largest ever undertaken in Italy. He has had also the responsibility of implementing the Group’s Risk and Management Control functions, while starting a valorisation and optimization plan for Group’s Real Estate properties. Luigi Ferraris worked also as non executive Board Member of Banca del Mezzogiorno – Mediocredito Centrale, PSC S.p.A Group. He was Board Member of Erg S.p.A. a company listed in the Italian stock exchange. He had a teaching role or “Corporate Strategy” at LUISS University.\n"}
{"id": "762043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762043", "title": "Marginal product", "text": "Marginal product\n\nIn economics and in particular neoclassical economics, the marginal product or marginal physical productivity of an input (factor of production) is the change in output resulting from employing one more unit of a particular input (for instance, the change in output when a firm's labor is increased from five to six units), assuming that the quantities of other inputs are kept constant.\n\nThe marginal product of a given input can be expressed \nas:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the change in the firm's use of the input (conventionally a one-unit change) and formula_3 is the change in quantity of output produced (resulting from the change in the input). Note that the quantity formula_4 of the \"product\" is typically defined ignoring external costs and benefits.\n\nIf the output and the input are infinitely divisible, so the marginal \"units\" are infinitesimal, the marginal product is the mathematical derivative of the production function with respect to that input. Suppose a firm's output \"Y\" is given by the production function:\n\nwhere \"K\" and \"L\" are inputs to production (say, capital and labor). Then the marginal product of capital (\"MPK\") and marginal product of labor (\"MPL\") are given by:\n\nIn the \"law\" of diminishing marginal returns, the marginal product initially increases when more of an input (say labor) is employed, keeping the other input (say capital) constant. Here, labor is the variable input and capital is the fixed input (in a hypothetical two-inputs model). As more and more of variable input (labor) is employed, marginal product starts to fall. Finally, after a certain point, the marginal product becomes negative, implying that the additional unit of labor has \"decreased\" the output, rather than increasing it. The reason behind this is the diminishing marginal productivity of labor.\n\nThe marginal product of labor is the slope of the total product curve, which is the production function plotted against labor usage for a fixed level of usage of the capital input.\n\nIn the neoclassical theory of competitive markets, the marginal product of labor equals the real wage. In aggregate models of perfect competition, in which a single good is produced and that good is used both in consumption and as a capital good, the marginal product of capital equals its rate of return. As was shown in the Cambridge capital controversy, this proposition about the marginal product of capital cannot generally be sustained in multi-commodity models in which capital and consumption goods are distinguished.\n\nRelationship of marginal product (MPP) with the total product (TPP)\n\nThe relationship can be explained in three phases-\n(1) Initially, as the quantity of variable input is increased, TPP rises at an increasing rate. In this phase, MPP also rises.\n(2) As more and more quantities of the variable inputs are employed, TPP increases at a diminishing rate. In this phase, MPP starts to fall.\n(3) When the TPP reaches its maximum, MPP is zero. Beyond this point, TPP starts to fall and MPP becomes negative.\n\n"}
{"id": "42048500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42048500", "title": "Media-Analyse (Germany)", "text": "Media-Analyse (Germany)\n\nThe Media-Analyse (ma) (\"English\": Media Analysis (MA)) by Media-Analyse AG (AGMA) is the largest annually conducted media analysis in Germany and the largest survey of media consumer behavior in Germany overall. It examines the total population as well as its subgroups. The survey occurs telephonically or with questionnaires given to a representative cross-section of the total population sample.\n\nThe yearly use of media is queried using dated surveys and daily routine studies. Initially, only the German-speaking population of Germany was questioned, limited to those living in private households which was the main place of residence, and limited to those at least 14 years old. In 2008, the age limit was reduced to ten years old and European Union foreigners were incorporated. From 2010, “other foreigners” are also now questioned. This includes approximately 50,000 young people and adults who are chosen by random selection according to the ADM sampling system. They are subsequently questioned, some in person and some telephonically (CATI). In the process, the subgroups are described based on their demographic features such as age, sex, occupation, income, religion, and community size.\n\nThe results of the media analysis are issued on behalf of AGMA by its subsidiary Media Micro Census. They have large practical relevance because they largely determine the booking behavior of the advertising industry. The MA thus indirectly determines the price a media provider can charge for advertising. It is hence regularly observed that some radio stations use a large part of their annual advertising budget during the survey period of the MA.\n\nIn \"MA Pressemedien\" (\"English\": \"MA Press Media\"), data is obtained on magazines, daily newspapers, supplements, city magazines, KONPRESS (denominational press; church newspapers), reading circles, and cinema. \"MA 2006 Pressemedien II\", published on July 26, 2006, noted 170 magazines. For this study, around 39,000 interviews were collectively carried out in two waves during a year (February 27, 2005 – February 4, 2006). The MA 2007 Pressemedien I appeared in January 2007.\n\nFrom the Second Wave MA 2004 (September 2003 – February 2004) on, some changes in the survey method were carried out, one of which was the launch of the Title Split Method (division of the approximately 180 titles submitted into three otherwise identical questionnaire versions) as well as (first only in approximately 10% of the interviews) the CASI method.\n\nThrough the introduction of the title split models, the reach of the magazines increases over the two waves by an average of 7% - though with clear deviations for individual titles up or down. A direct comparison of historical data is hence no longer justifiable because of methodological reasons.\n\nAs so-called “media currency”, the \"readers per issue (LpA)\" was established in the MA Pressemedien. It shows how many readers an issue of a certain magazine or newspaper has.\n\nIn \"MA Radio\", the radio consumption for individual stations is queried. The MA Radio is conducted telephonically (the so-called CATI survey model), for which 58,011 people were questioned and appeared as \"MA 2006 Radio I\" on March 8, 2006.\n\nAs media currency, the so-called \"listeners per hour\" (for pre-determined hours) is reported as well as the \"average listeners per hour\" and the \"listeners per day\".\n\nThe first \"MA Plakat\" (\"English\": \"MA Placard\") under the AGMA roof appeared on September 22, 2004.\n\nOn December 19, 2007 the MA 2007 Plakat was published. The coverage method of the MA Plakat was completely revised in 2007. The data is now based on a combined survey model, consisting of a CATI survey and a measurement method with a GPS receiver.\n\nSince 2009, the collected \"Internet Facts\" of the \"Online Forschung AG (AGOF)\" (\"English\": \"Online Research AG\") also fall under the methodological responsibility of the \"MA\".\n\nAGOF records internet usage behavior with the Three Pillar Model:\n\nIn the fall of each year, \"MA Intermedia\" also appears, in which information for magazines, newspapers, TV, and radio is summarized.\n\nIn addition to media use, sociodemographic characteristics, leisure time behavior, and shopping behavior are collected. The questionnaire is largely identical to all MA studies (Press Media, Radio, Daily Newspaper).\n\nThe current data is only at the disposal of members of the \"Media-Analyse AG eV\" (publishing houses, radio stations, advertising agencies, advertisers, etc.). However, one can create a free individual query, e.g. about advertising departments of the publishing houses.\n\nThe Media-Analyse appears twice per year for Pressemedien and Radio, and once per year for Tageszeitungen (\"English\": Daily Newspapers) and Plakat. In Nordrhein-Westfalen, the MA Radio is expanded for local radio stations through the E.M.A. NRW, while in Bavaria, it is expanded through the Radio Analysis.\n\nThe first \"Leser-Analyse\" (\"English\": \"Reader Analysis\") appeared in 1954, and thus AGMA celebrated its 50-year anniversary in 2004.\n\nA whole series of further market and media studies of different providers are based on the MA-determined reach results, among them the TdW (Typologie der Wünsche (\"English\": Typology of Desires) by Hubert Burda Media), VA (Verbraucher-Analyse (\"English\": Consumer Analysis) by Axel Springer Publishers and Bauer Publishers), Communication Networks (Focus Magazine Publishers), MarkenProfile (\"English\": BrandsProfile), VuMA, etc.\n\nAll of the content of this article comes from the equivalent German-language Wikipedia article (see \"Deutsch\" link in the language list). Retrieved on February 25, 2014. The following references are cited by that German-language article:\n"}
{"id": "16196071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16196071", "title": "Nahum Manbar", "text": "Nahum Manbar\n\nNahum Manbar (, born April 18, 1946) is an Israeli businessman who was involved in arms trade with Iran. He was convicted in series of crimes against Israel's national security and served 14.5 years in prison, prior his release in October 2011.\n\nManbar was born in kibbutz Givat Haim in 1946. His parents were among the founders of the kibbutz. At age 16, he was in the reserve squad of the Israeli national basketball team. He served as an officer in the Paratroopers Brigade after being conscripted into the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). He also served as an instructor at the IDF Officers' College. Manbar fought in both the Six-Day War, War of Attrition, and Yom Kippur War. During the Yom Kippur War, he saved the life of Hanoch Saar, who would later serve on his defense team.\n\nAfter his military service, Manbar moved to Tel Aviv and opened up a series of businesses. His business ventures mostly ended with police investigations and indictments for crimes such as fraud, passing bad checks, and stealing checks from government employees. In 1984 he fled to the United Kingdom after being indicted for fraud, imposture, and theft, and was declared by Israel to be a fugitive from justice. He then began selling produce at the Covent Garden Market in London, but soon left Britain and entered the arms trade. He set up weapons companies in Poland and France. During his career as an arms trader, he lived in France and Switzerland before settling in Poland and setting up his headquarters in Warsaw. Some of the weapons Manbar sold were purchased from the Polish Army. In 1994 he became a sponsor of Hapoel Jerusalem B.C.\n\nManbar sold arms to Iran, establishing contacts in the Iranian Defense Ministry. According to the charges at his trial, Manbar made contact through an Iranian mediator with Majed Abasbur, then the head of the Iranian chemical weapons development project. A deal was signed between Manbar's Mana Investments International company and Iran's section 105B, represented by Abashur. Manbar initially sold Iran a small number of shoulder-launched anti-aircraft missiles. Through this deal, he became acquainted with Polish Defense Minister Florian Siwicki. Manbar later sold offensive weaponry such as T-55 tanks purchased from the Polish military to Iran, explaining that \"I would buy, say, T-55 tanks from the Polish army for $35,000 apiece, install some fire-control system I had bought from Israel for $20,000 apiece, and sell them to the Iranians for $200,000. The profits were fantastic\".\n\nBetween 1992 and 1993, Manbar provided Iran with ingredients needed to make chemical weapons, equipment and expertise, and was paid $16 million by 1994 after providing elements of mustard gas and three types of nerve gas: Tabun, Sarin and Soman, and set up a plant in Poland to manufacture chemical weaponry for Iran. He obtained the raw materials necessary to make chemical weapons that he sold to Iran from China and Hungary. He also provided Iran with information and know-how to produce mustard gas. The indictment stated that he had not reported to Israeli intelligence about his contacts until August 1992, despite several meetings with members of the security forces. Despite committing himself to stop his illegal activity, he continued to do so for over a year. Manbar, however, claims that he informed Israeli authorities of his activities, and that his arms sales to Iran were approved by the Israeli Defense Ministry. However, Manbar offered Israel information on military subjects, and also offered to use the high-level links he had with the Iranians to reveal the fate of Ron Arad, exploiting Mossad's desperation for any information on his fate. Manbar supplied the Mossad with a faked video and worthless leads. Manbar's activities, some of which were conducted in Britain, drew the attention of MI6, which could not believe that an Israeli could be working so closely with Iran and concluded that Manbar was a Mossad agent trying to penetrate Iran's defense establishment.\n\nMossad began to investigate Manbar's dealings, and as part of the investigation , Mossad agents shadowed Abashur. On May 27, 1993, Manbar and Abashur met at the Marriott Hotel in Vienna. Abashur was tailed by two Mossad agents, and on his way there, he noticed he was being followed. When Abashur arrived, he told Manbar of the agents, and Manbar then confronted them and insinuated that he knew who they were, while Abashur, realizing that he had been discovered, left for an Iranian Embassy safe house. The two agents followed Abashur's car on a motorcycle, but due to heavy rain, they found it difficult to keep up with him, and as they emerged from an underpass, their motorcycle overturned. A car ran over the agents and killed them both. Their deaths reportedly increased the anger towards Manbar by the Israeli security services.\n\nIn 1994, he was accused by the US government of selling components for mustard gas and nerve gas to Iran in defiance of a US embargo and was barred from entering the United States.\n\nIn 1997, Deputy Attorney-General for Security Affairs Dvorah Chen concluded that she could prosecute Manbar for harming the security of the state and aiding the enemy in war against Israel. Mossad officials managed to persuade a Polish businessman who served as his right-hand man to agree to testify against him. On March 27, 1997, Manbar arrived in Israel to watch Hapoel Jerusalem compete for the State Cup. Upon arrival, he was arrested by Shin Bet and the Serious Crimes Unit of the Israel Police. His detention was initially placed under a gag order, and was cleared for publication several weeks later. In May he was indicted and his case was brought before the Tel Aviv District Court.\n\nManbar's trial began on 15 May. The trial was held behind closed doors, and much of the testimony was classified. His defense was based on the case that he did not act alone, and that Israeli businessmen were being allowed to sell weapons to Iran by the security authorities.\n\nOn July 16, 1998, he was unanimously convicted of collaboration with an enemy and providing information to an enemy. The court rejected his claims for lack of criminal intent and established that he had known about Abbasfour's senior position. He was sentenced to 16 years in prison. He served his sentence at Nitzan Prison in Ramla, and later at HaSharon Prison at the Hadarim Interchange.\n\nManbar appealed to the Supreme Court of Israel but his appeal was denied on December 5, 2000. In 2007 applied a request for parole, having been described as a well-behaved prisoner. However, the Shin Bet and Mossad objected, and in early 2008 his request was denied by the Jerusalem District Court. It was argued that he might be recruited by Iran.\n\nThe trial was laden with controversy. Manbar's attorney, Amnon Zichroni, alleged that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had contacted the presiding judge in the case, Amnon Straschnov, to lobby for a harsh sentence for Manbar. Netanyahu's office denied the allegations. Zichroni further alleged that a female member of his defense team, attorney Pninat Yanai, passed along privileged information about Manbar to Straschnov—with whom, Zichroni claimed, she was having a sexual affair. Yanai, who had been fired from her duties and was also a friend of Netanyahu's spokesman, denied those allegations as well.\n\nEx-Mossad agent Victor Ostrovsky pointed out that Manbar was given a small pool of lawyers to choose from and that the trial was conducted behind closed doors. He also said Manbar had contacts in the Israeli security services and that several deals with Iran had been made in the past.\n\nOthers also considered it a link in a chain of shady deals between Israel and Iran that goes back to the Iran-Contra affair, and that he had taken the fall for the Israeli military and security industry.\n\nIn France, Manbar met a French woman, Francine. They married April 21. 1992 and had a son. \n\nFrancine gave the Mossad information on her previous husband's dealings with the Condor Argentine Missile Program before her marriage. On March 2. 2010 the couple obtained a divorce (Tel Aviv District Family Court DMC 13120-07). \n\nIn 2003, while still in prison, Manbar was declared bankrupt, and appointed a trustee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "938465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938465", "title": "Nicolae Malaxa", "text": "Nicolae Malaxa\n\nNicolae Malaxa ( – 1965) was a Romanian engineer and industrialist.\n\nBorn in a family of Aromanian origins in Huşi, Malaxa studied engineering in Iaşi (at the University of Iaşi) and Karlsruhe (at the Polytechnic University). Late in his life, Petre Pandrea, a Romanian intellectual who was for long a member of the Communist Party and later became a victim of the Communist regime, wrote a memoir which, in part, dealt with Malaxa's biography, recording it with a dose of hostility. In it, he indicated that Malaxa's father died a young man, and that Nicolae was kept in university with money earned by his mother and sister. Pandrea, who called Malaxa \"a mama's boy\" and argued that this had shaped his character, also noted that, after graduation and contrary to his family's wishes, the engineer married a divorcée (who had been married to one of his early business partners). In time, he claimed, tensions grew between the two Malaxas, after the \"Puritan\" Nicolae came to resent his \"frivolous\" wife.\n\nMalaxa joined the Romanian Railways Company as a constructions engineer. Petre Pandrea implied that this went against procedure, and was the result of Nicolae Malaxa having befriended Chairman Alexandru Cottescu. The same source indicated that Malaxa continued to engage in business ventures, and that, upon the end of World War I and the Romanian Campaign, he was living in Iaşi and managing a grape-selling business. In 1918-1919, he quit his job at the Company and started a new business dealing with rolling stock maintenance — the venture was instantly successful, a fact which Pandrea attributed to the infrastructure's decay under the previous occupation by the Central Powers. Thus, Malaxa revitalized rail vehicles left into disrepair, which he sold back to the state at ten times the investment.\n\nAccording to \"Time\", Malaxa \"parlayed a shoestring into a chain of arms factories and a partnership in Rumania's largest iron works\". By the end of the 1930s, the Malaxa factories were mass-producing steam locomotives, diesel locomotives, trainsets, rolling stock, steel pipes, and were one of the biggest industrial groups in Southeastern Europe, and the main provider of equipment for the Romanian Railways during the period. In several of his locomotive designs, Malaxa used innovative solutions (in locomotive design — those developed in by George Constantinescu on the basis of his \"theory of sonics\"; in factory design — in collaboration with Horia Creangă). Owning much of Romania's steel industry through his strong presence in Reşiţa, he was chairman of the Ford Motor Company's Romanian section, and arguably the richest man in Romania at the time.\n\nMalaxa was close to the authoritarian King Carol II. Together with Aristide Blank and Max Auschnitt, he was one of the major businessmen present in the king's \"camarilla\" (\"see National Renaissance Front\"); such political connections also implied that his success was partly ensured by preferential deals agreed with the state, and in some cases by the placement of inferior products on a captive market. According to Pandrea, Malaxa had made a habit of manipulating state officials into granting him preferential credits, which explained his interest in supporting Carol's moves. Reportedly, Malaxa and his wife were especially close to the king's mistress, Elena Lupescu, and even became related through marriage (after Lupescu's nephew, an engineer, married the niece of Malaxa's wife).\n\nAround 1939, Carol's son Michael was rumored to be in a relationship with Lulu Malaxa (Nicolae's daughter). Petre Pandrea also alleged that, soon after turning 17, the virgin Lulu had been raped by Carol on board his \"Luceafărul\" yacht — before her father decided to intervene, remove her from the circle of friends, and send her to study in Paris. Pandrea also claimed that this was the origin of the notorious conflict between the engineer and Auschnitt, alleging that the latter's wife, was Carol's third mistress and resented Lulu's apparent success. He also claimed that Elena Lupescu was cheating on the king with his secretary Ernest Urdăreanu, who was also an important figure of the \"camarilla\" and who kept close contacts with the Malaxas.\n\nUnlike most other large industries in the country, Malaxa's was not tied to British, French or Czechoslovak interests. Instead, Nicolae Malaxa maintained business links with Nazi Germany as early as 1935. At a time when Nazi Germany was gaining more influence in Romania, Nicolae Malaxa collaborated with Hermann Göring in confiscating the assets of the Jewish Auschnitt (who had been arrested and prosecuted on false charges in September 1939), and subsequently placed his industrial empire in the service of the \"Reichswerke\" during World War II.\n\nJust after Carol fell from power in 1940, Malaxa was briefly imprisoned on charges that he had resorted to extortion in previous years. Probably sympathizing with Nazi ideology, he had financed the activities of the Romanian far right Iron Guard organization as early as the mid-1930s, and especially throughout the National Legionary State the latter established. During the Rebellion and Pogrom it provoked in January 1941, the Guard made use of arms manufactured by Malaxa, as well of his house (turned into a citadel and attacked by the Romanian Army) — he was consequently put on trial by Ion Antonescu's government.\n\nIn February 1945, several months after the King Michael Coup which toppled Antonescu, and following the start of Soviet occupation, his Bucharest factories were at the center of mysterious and violent events. At the time, independent Premier Nicolae Rădescu had come into conflict with the rising Romanian Communist Party, and his frequent speeches to his supporters were disrupted by organized workers. This occurred in Malaxa's plant, and the incident ended with shots being fired and several people killed. The Communist Party claimed that they had been targeted by the Army, acting on orders from Rădescu, despite the fact that bullets recovered from the bodies were not of the kind used by the military. Aggravated by another of Rădescu's addresses, in which he deemed Communists \"foreigners without God or a nation\", the crisis ended with the appointment of a new cabinet endorsed by the Communist Party and the Soviet Union and presided by Ploughmen's Front leader Petru Groza.\n\nMalaxa used his opportunity to flee after being sent on an economic mission by King Michael, and settled in New York City, where his family joined him after being expelled by the Groza government. Malaxa and his son Constantin (1922–1999) had their Romanian citizenship revoked in by the Communist regime in 1948. In May of that year, he met with the ousted Nicolae Rădescu, and financed him money to start issuing an anti-communist magazine titled \"Luceafărul\" (of which philosopher Mircea Eliade was editor).\n\nAlongside accusations involving his endorsement of the Iron Guard, it was alleged that he had been collaborating with the Romanian Communist Party during his last years in Romania. In 1955, while Malaxa was visiting Argentina, the Immigration and Naturalization Service briefly revoked his reentry permit. Both charges were again voiced by Democratic Party politicians during Richard Nixon's 1962 electoral campaign for Governor in California, after focus was placed on the friendship and business connections between Nixon and Malaxa. A government investigation dismissed the accusations, but, in 1979, his pro-Nazi past was again investigated by \"The Washington Post\" (which claimed that high-ranking American officials close to Malaxa had been involved in a cover-up).\n\nSuspicions regarding Malaxa's alleged communism, dismissed early in the era of McCarthyism by Rădescu, were investigated in 1958 by the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, and centered on rich gifts he had sent to Communist leaders such as Ana Pauker — Malaxa defended himself by arguing that these had been sent in order to ensure his family's safe passage into America.\n\nHaving apparently never applied for American citizenship, Malaxa died at his residence in New Jersey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51434916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51434916", "title": "Operational continuity", "text": "Operational continuity\n\nOperational continuity refers to the ability of a system to continue working despite damages, losses or critical events. In the Human Resources and Organizational domain, including IT, it implies the need to determine the level of resilience of the system, its ability to recover after an event, and build a system that resists to external and internal events or is able to recover after an event without losing its external performance management capability. Organizational Continuity is achieved only with specific corporate planning. In the material domain, it determines the need to adopt redundant systems, performance monitoring systems, and can even imply the practice to cannibalize or to remove serviceable assemblies, sub-assemblies or components from a repairable or serviceable item of equipment in order to install them on another, in order to keep the external system performance active.\nOperational continuity may be referred to single systems, single individuals, up to teams or entire complex systems such as IT infrastructures, implying the ability of an organization or system to continue to provide its mission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49595878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49595878", "title": "Patrick Hally", "text": "Patrick Hally\n\nPatrick Hally (1866 – 21 July 1938) was a Catholic bootmaker turned politician in Dunedin at the turn of the twentieth century. He was one of the three original conciliation commissioners appointed under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1909.\n\nHally was born in 1866 in Dunedin, the eldest son of John Hally. He was educated locally at the Christian Brothers' School before leaving to start an apprenticeship in the boot making trade. In 1891 he established his own shoemaking business in George Street, Dunedin.\n\nHally was involved in local politics much of his life. He was a Labour movement sympathiser, and in 1899 became the president of the New Zealand Federal Tailoresses' Union and later was a Dunedin City Councillor, elected to represent the Bell Ward in 1902. He was a prominent member of the union-based Workers' Political Committee, an Otago-based organisation tasked with choosing political candidates to represent workers politically. Hally was also a member of the Dunedin Catholic Literary Society.\n\nIn 1901 Hally contested the Caversham by-election under a Labour banner. In a six-way contest he came third with a respectable 1,120 votes (nearly a quarter of the total vote) losing to the Liberal Party's candidate Thomas Sidey.\n\nHally was one of the three original conciliation commissioners appointed under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act introduced in 1908. He was appointed in 1909 and served alongside T. Harle Giles and James Richard Triggs. Hally was a commissioner until 1916, and again from 1922 until 13 September 1936.\n\nHally's first wife died in 1907. He married a second time. He lost a son in World War I. In 1936, Hally retired for health reasons. After having been ill for several weeks, he died in Auckland on 21 July 1938. He was survived by his wife and two sons.\n"}
{"id": "58657562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58657562", "title": "Peter Van Den Bossche", "text": "Peter Van Den Bossche\n\nPeter van den Bossche (born 1959) is a professor of international economic law at the University of Bern (World Trade Institute). In 2018 he was elected president of the Society of International Economic Law (SIEL). He served as a judge on the Appelate Body of the World Trade Organization (WTO) from 2009-2017, following nomination by the European Union and appointment and re-appointment by the Member states of the World Trade Organization. In December 2013 his appointment was renewed. With the end of his formal appointment at the end of 2017, US-driven delays in appointing his replacement alongside US blocking of other key WTO vacancies has meant a growing crisis for the WTO-based multilateral trading system. The election of van den Bossche (an outgoing WTO judge) as SIEL president is considered by some a sign of both defiance to economic nationalism and support for the rules-based multilateral system.\n\nPrior to his appointment at the University of Bern, he was employed at the Faculty of Law of Maastricht University (1992-2016), where he was senior lecturer from 1993-2001, and of International economic law from 2001-2016. From 2005-2009 he was head of department of the Department of International and European Law. In 2007 he founded the Institute for Globalization and International Regulation. From 1990 to 1992, he worked as référendaire at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg and, from 1997 to 2001, as senior legal advisor to the WTO Appellate Body in Geneva. He serves on the Advisory Board of several academic law journals: \"Journal of World Investment and Trade\"; \"Journal of International Economic Law\"; and \"Revista Latinoamericana de Derecho Comercial Internacional\". He is also on the advisory board for the \"WTO Chairs Programme\" of the World Trade Organization. Through its various editions, his book \"The Law and Policy of the World Trade Organization\" has become a standard reference on international trade law and the dispute settlement mechanism. (See International Trade Law.)\n\nHe received a PhD from the European University Institute in Florence (1990). He also holds a Licence en Droit magna cum laude from the University of Antwerp and an LL.M. from the University of Michigan Law School.\n\n"}
{"id": "4344880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4344880", "title": "Piet Klijnveld", "text": "Piet Klijnveld\n\nPieter 'Piet' Klijnveld (16 August 1874 – 9 February 1945) was a Dutch accountant who started a practice that after several mergers would grow into the international accounting firm KPMG.\n\nPieter Klijnveld was born on 16 August 1874 in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. He was the son of Pieter Klijnveld Sr. and Maria Christina Klijnveld. He married Cristina Johanna Royaards on 2 August 1906 in Amsterdam.\n\nAfter working at the Amsterdam office of the Twentsche Bank (a precursor of ABN Amro), he opened a small accountancy practice in 1917 in his home on the Viottastraat. It would take a few years before a second office was in use on the Tesselschadestraat. Amsterdam was a bustling trade and investment hub for European and Asian industrialists. Many foreign enterprises, including royalty, governments, and even the Bank of England, traded extensively in the Netherlands at the time, making it an active market for financiers as well as importers and exporters of virtually everything.\n\nKlijnveld became the chief accountant to many of these emerging businesses. To meet the demands of his growing client roster, he teamed up with a local tax firm called Meijburg & Company. One of these accountants was Jaap Kraayenhof, who joined Klynveld and eventually become senior partner of the Dutch firm \"Klijnveld Kraayenhof & Co.\", abroad usually written as Klynveld Kraayenhof & Co. (KKC).\n\nKlijnveld died just before the liberation of the Netherlands in 1945 and his wife died in September 1947. They had an art collection that included amongst others works by Piet Mondriaan.\n\nSpecializing in banking and exporting, KKC kept its name and independence by serving Dutch clients who were expanding throughout Europe and South America. In 1979, Klynveld Main Goerdeler (KMG) was formed with the merger of Klynveld Kraayenhof & Company, Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft (DTG), and McLintock Main Lafrentz to create a strong European-based international firm.\n\nIn 1987, KMG and Peat Marwick International (PMI) combined in the first mega-merger of large accounting firms forming KPMG.\n\n"}
{"id": "24505241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24505241", "title": "Pioneer Plaza", "text": "Pioneer Plaza\n\nPioneer Plaza is a large public park located in the Convention Center District of downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). It contains a large sculpture and is a heavily visited tourist site. Adjacent to the plaza is the Pioneer Park Cemetery which features the Confederate War Memorial. Together, it is the largest public open space in the Dallas central business district.\nThe land on which the plaza sits, once railroad and warehouse property, was cleared for the -tall hotel and office Dallas Tower which was part of the failed Griffin Square development. The plaza and its accompanying sculpture were the idea of real estate developer Trammell Crow, who wanted an iconic \"Western\" sculpture in the city of Dallas and assembled a group to donate the sculptures. The $9 million project was begun in 1992 on of land donated by the City of Dallas; $4.8 million of the cost came from private funds raised from individuals and local businesses. Local artists sued to stop the project and claimed that it was historically inaccurate for the city, but the project opened on time in 1994\n\nToday the park is maintained by the adjacent Dallas Convention Center and is the second most visited tourist attraction in downtown Dallas. As a work in progress, an additional steer is occasionally added to the herd.\n\nThe large sculpture commemorates nineteenth century cattle drives that took place along the Shawnee Trail, the earliest and easternmost route by which Texas longhorn cattle were taken to northern railheads. The trail passed through Austin, Waco, and Dallas until the Chisolm Trail siphoned off most of the traffic in 1867. The 49 bronze steers and 3 trail riders sculptures were created by artist Robert Summers of Glen Rose, Texas. Each steer is larger-than-life at six feet high; all together the sculpture is the largest bronze monument of its kind in the world. Set along an artificial ridge and past a man-made limestone cliff, native landscaping with a flowing stream and waterfall help create the dramatic effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "3265765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3265765", "title": "Ralph Kimball", "text": "Ralph Kimball\n\nRalph Kimball (born 1944) is an author on the subject of data warehousing and business intelligence. He is one of the original architects of data warehousing and is known for long-term convictions that data warehouses must be designed to be understandable and fast. \nHis methodology, also known as dimensional modeling or the Kimball methodology, has become the de facto standard in the area of decision support.\n\nHe is the principal author of the best-selling books \"The Data Warehouse Toolkit\", \"The Data Warehouse Lifecycle Toolkit\", \"The Data Warehouse ETL Toolkit\" and \"The Kimball Group Reader\", published by Wiley and Sons.\n\nAfter receiving a Ph.D. in 1973 from Stanford University in electrical engineering (specializing in man-machine systems), Ralph joined the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC). At PARC Ralph was a principal designer of the Xerox Star Workstation, the first commercial product to use mice, icons and windows.\n\nKimball then became vice president of applications at Metaphor Computer Systems, a decision support software and services provider. He developed the Capsule Facility in 1982. The Capsule was a graphical programming technique which connected icons together in a logical flow, allowing a very visual style of programming for non-programmers. The Capsule was used to build reporting and analysis applications at Metaphor.\n\nKimball founded Red Brick Systems in 1986, serving as CEO until 1992. Red Brick Systems was acquired by Informix, which is now owned by IBM. Red Brick was known for its relational database optimized for data warehousing. Their claim to fame was the use of bit-map Indexes in order to achieve performance gains that amounted to almost 10 times that of other Database vendors at that time.\n\nRalph Kimball Associates incorporated in 1992 to provide data warehouse consulting and education.\n\nThe Kimball Group, founded by Kimball, formalized existing long-term relationships between Ralph Kimball Associates, DecisionWorks Consulting, and InfoDynamics LLC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5190463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5190463", "title": "Review Body", "text": "Review Body\n\nA Review Body in the United Kingdom is a government mechanism to replace collective bargaining for certain groups of employees in the public sector, for example doctors and nurses in the National Health Service. A Review Body makes independent recommendations on pay after considering evidence from the relevant parties (typically government, employers and unions), with cherished expectations that the Government will honour those recommendations and the unions will not pursue national industrial action. \n\nThe Review Body system started in 1971 for doctors and dentists. There are currently six Review Bodies which together cover approximately 26% of the total 5.8 million employed in the UK public sector.\n\n\nEach Review Body is established as a non-departmental public body (NDPB) that is sponsored by the relevant department of the UK Government (e.g. the Armed Forces Pay Review Body is sponsored by the Ministry of Defence). However, the review bodies do have their own secretariat provided by the Government in the Office of Manpower Economics. \n\nThe existence of a Review Body does not necessarily block the practice of collective bargaining, but its recommendations are required before a negotiated bargain is implemented. A major harmonisation of NHS pay structure, the Agenda for Change, was provisionally agreed in 2003 by unions representing nurses and other health professions in the NHS, unions representing NHS staff not covered by a Review Body (e.g. office staff), NHS employers and government \"before\" the Nursing and Other Health Professions Review Body considered the issue: it recommended in favour of implementing the negotiated agreement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7422591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7422591", "title": "Richard Donchian", "text": "Richard Donchian\n\nRichard Davoud Donchian (born September 1905, Hartford, Connecticut – d. 1993) was an Armenian-American commodities and futures trader, and pioneer in the field of managed futures.\n\nThe first publicly managed futures fund, \"Futures, Inc.\", was started in 1949 by Richard Donchian. He also developed the trend timing method of futures investing and introduced the mutual fund concept to the field of money management.\n\nRichard Donchian is considered to be the creator of the managed futures industry and is credited with developing a systematic approach to futures money management. His professional trading career was dedicated to advancing a more conservative approach to futures trading.\n\nRichard's parents were Armenian immigrants from Western Armenia which was part of the Ottoman Empire back in the 1880s and had come to settle in the USA. As a young man Richard went to school in Connecticut, later graduating from Yale University with a BA degree in Economics. He later receives his MBA from MIT Sloan School of Management. Richard's first taste of the job market was as an assistant in his family’s Oriental rug business.\n\nDuring this time Richard came across the fictionalized biography of stock market whiz Jesse Livermore titled \"Reminiscences of a Stock Operator\", After reading this book Richard became so fascinated that his interest turned to studying the financial markets. During the market crash of 1929 he lost some money. This experience led him to study technical analysis and become a student of price history alone and for its own sake.\n\nRichard began his Wall Street career in the 1930s. He published a very popular stock market service called \"Security Pilot\" which he sold to brokerage houses. During the summer of 1933 he became an account executive and securities analyst with \"Hemphill, Noyes and Co\", while still working as the Vice President of the \"Samuel Rug Company\".\n\nWorld War II would take Richard into the US military and participation in the invasion of Sicily. He was later promoted to Air Force statistical officer. After the War he became a private investment adviser and securities analyst. Richard was self-employed until 1960. In 1948 he changed his focus from securities analysis to active trading and developing his rule based technical system. He established the trading firm \"Futures, Inc.\", which was then one of the first publicly held commodity funds.\n\nRichard developed a rule based trading approach which became known as Trend following. It is based on the assumption that commodity prices moved in long, sustained moves. Richard developed and used a trading system that incorporated \"Trading rules\", \"Trading guidelines\", and his \"weekly rule system\" based on moving averages. He wrote many articles on futures trading and securities and became known as \"the father of trend following\".\n\nIn 1960 Richard was appointed Director of Commodity Research with Hayden Stone where he commenced writing a weekly newsletter, Commodity Trend Timing, based on his 5-20 moving average method. His newsletter was very popular, reaching a weekly circulation of some 10,000 copies during the 19 years he wrote it. Richard wrote numerous articles which are considered industry classics, including \"Trend Following Methods in Commodity Price Analysis\". Richard would remain with Hayden Stone's various successors, including Shearson/American Express, and later joined \"Shearson Lehman Brothers\", eventually becoming Vice President of the firm.\n\nDuring his career he was a member of several exchanges, such as the \"New York Cotton Exchange\", and several professional market associations, such as the New York Society of Security Analysts.\n\nMany modern trend following systems, such as the \"Turtle Trading system\", are based on his work. The Richard Davoud Donchian Foundation was established after his death in April 1993; its aim is to make improvements in Children's Health and to help its ultimate recipients become empowered to strengthen and build up their families and communities — passing onto others that which was given to them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49035251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49035251", "title": "Roy Vanenburg", "text": "Roy Vanenburg\n\nRoy Vanenburg is a Surinamese football manager and former player, who was last manager of Hoofdklasse club S.V. Transvaal. He spent most of his professional playing career with S.V. Transvaal, winning six Hoofdklasse titles, and two CONCACAF Champions Cups, finishing as the league top scorer in both 1968 and in 1971. He had previously played for H.V.V. and S.V. Robinhood before joining Transvaal in 1967.\n\nAfter retiring from playing, he went into management with SV Transvaal. followed by spells with SCSV Takdier Boys, Paloeloe, SNL, FCS Nacional, Walking Boyz Company, SV Robinhood and SV Notch. With Walking Boyz Company he managed to win the National title, the Surinamese Cup and the Suriname President's Cup all in 2009.\n\nHe is the uncle of former Dutch International football player and manager Gerald Vanenburg.\n\nVanenburg began his football career in 1961, at age 13, on the Mr. Bronsplein, in Paramaribo, Surinam, playing in the youth ranks of V.V. Ajax. In 1963 he joined NAKS, playing for Jong NAKS in the youth league, receiving guidance from the likes of Frits Purperhart and Imro Pengel, before transferring to Hercules a year later.\n\nIn 1964, Vanenburg joined Hercules Voetbal Vereniging, making his debut in the Surinamese Hoofdklasse at age 16. While at Hercules he would play with the likes of Rinaldo Krenten, Franklin ‘Jeep’ Kranenburg and George Barron, reputable players in the competition at the time. His performance earned him a move to S.V. Robinhood a year later, transferring in November 1965.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1967, Vannenburg played for SV Robinhood. His performance earned him the captain arm band, at the Kingdom Games in 1966, playing for the Surinamese national team. Vanenburg subsequently transferred to S.V. Transvaal, the dominating club in Suriname at the time, a year later.\n\nVanenburg played the remainder of his career for SV Transvaal, where he would play with Wensley Bundel and Pauli Corte in the midfield in the sixties. In 1968, he finished as the league top scorer together with teammate Edwin Schal with 14 goals each. In 1971, he finished as the league top scorer once more with 16 goals. Together with Harald Reumel and Schal, he formed a trio that posed a major threat for the opponents. 1973 proved to be the most successful year for Vanenburg, helping his side to win the CONCACAF Champions Cup, thus becoming the first Surinamese club to win the Continental title by defeating CRKSV Jong Colombia from the Netherlands Antilles 4–2 on aggregate score in the final, Transvaal would also win the national title that same year undefeated.\n\nTransvaal won the national title again the following year, earning the team another berth in the Champions Cup. Making it to the finals once more, Transvaal finished as runnrs-up in the competition, losing to Atlético Español from Mexico 5–1 on aggregate score in the final. In 1981 Vanenburg helped Transvaal to the 1981 CONCACAF Champions' Cup finals once more, winning the title 2–1 on aggregate score against C.D. Atlético Marte from El Salvador.\n\nConsidered one of the greatest football players in the clubs' history, Vanenburg helped his team secure six national titles, and two CONCACAF Champions Cup trophies during the span of his career, while finishing as the league top goal scorer twice.\n\nVanenburg played for the Suriname national team. He made his debut in 1965 and became the team captain in the 1966 Kingdom Games a year later. He scored his first International goal against the Netherlands on 14 August 1966, scoring the equalizer in a 1–1 draw. He played an important role in the countries 1970 and 1978 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaigns, also helping his team to win the 1978 CFU Championship.\n\nIn 1981, Vanenburg retired as a player, taking a coaching position with S.V. Transvaal. He later coached SCSV Takdier Boys, Paloeloe and SV SNL in the Surinamese Hoofdklasse. From 2006 to 2007 he managed FCS Nacional, followed by four seasons managing the Walking Boyz Company. In 2009, he would help the club to win the National championship, the Surinamese Cup and the Suriname President's Cup.\n\nIn 2011, he took over as manager of SV Robinhood, parting ways with the club, half way through his second season, in 2012 he took over the position at SV Notch where he stayed until 2014, returning to SV Transvaal the following year. In December 2015 the club changed ownership and Vanenburg was reliefed of his managerial duties, being replaced by Dennis Baino.\n\nVanenburg is the uncle of Dutch International football player Gerald Vanenburg. Born in Utrecht, his nephew would go on to have a successful career in Europe, winning the 1988 UEFA European Championship with the Netherlands, while winning the Dutch Golden Boot award two years in a row, in 1988 and 1989. His Nephew also helped PSV Eindhoven to win the European Cup in 1988.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53807840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53807840", "title": "Setsuzō Sawada", "text": "Setsuzō Sawada\n\nSetsuzō Sawada (澤田 節蔵, September 9, 1884 - July 4, 1976) was a Japanese diplomat.\n\nBorn in Tottori Prefecture in what is now the town of Iwami, he graduated from the law faculty of the University of Tokyo and joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He served in several key posts including Consul-General in New York (1929–30), Delegate to the League of Nations (1930–32), and Ambassador to Brazil (1934–38). As a pacifist, he opposed Japan's 1933 withdrawal from the League of Nations, and as a Roman Catholic, he made appeals to the Vatican in order to put an early end to World War II. He served as an advisor to the cabinet of Prime Minister Kantaro Suzuki late in the war.\n\nIn the wake of the war he was regarded, along with fellow veteran diplomat Naotake Sato, as one of the remaining elder statesmen of his generation. He established Nippon Cultural Broadcasting and served as its chairman. He served as the first president of the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies from 1949 to 1955.\n\nOne of his brothers served as Permanent Representative to the United Nations and was married to social worker Miki Sawada, while another brother was an industrialist.\n"}
{"id": "1938083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938083", "title": "Squawk Box", "text": "Squawk Box\n\nSquawk Box is a business news television program that airs at breakfast time on the CNBC network. The program is currently co-hosted by Joe Kernen, Becky Quick, and Andrew Ross Sorkin. Since debuting in 1995, the show has spawned a number of versions across CNBC's international channels, many of which employ a similar format. The program title originates from a term used in investment banks and stock brokerages for a permanent voice circuit or intercom used to communicate stock deals or sales priorities; it also may refer to the squawk of a bird, like a peacock, which is the logo of CNBC.\n\nDubbed \"our pre-game show\" by regular co-host Joe Kernen, \"Squawk Box\" features early-morning analysis of and breaking news from the financial markets, along with considerable banter between the hosts and their guests – original host Mark Haines stressed the need to \"inject a little fun\" into business news in the early morning. Another distinctive and long-running feature of the show has been its use of daily \"guest hosts\" – figures from the world of business and politics who join the team for much of the broadcast, questioning guests as well as offering their own opinions.\n\nRegular contributors to the show include Sharon Epperson (NYMEX), Rick Santelli (Chicago), Steve Liesman, Guy Adami and CNBC senior analyst Ron Insana.\n\nMeteorologists from The Weather Channel contribute to the \"Business Travel Forecast\" segments.\n\n\"Squawk Box\"’s core on-air team remained intact for many years – the program was originally presented by New Jersey lawyer Mark Haines, along with in-studio reporters Joe Kernen, David Faber and Maria Bartiromo at the New York Stock Exchange. CNBC's senior economics reporter Steve Liesman also became a frequent contributor. Alexis Glick joined the team as senior trading correspondent in May 2003, while Bartiromo stepped down from her position in 2004 to concentrate on other duties. Rebecca Quick later replaced Glick as a reporter.\n\nFor many years the program covered the opening bells of the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ Stock Market at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Other regular segments included the \"Squawk Exchange\", where the team (particularly Faber and Kernen) shared banter on various topics, \"On the Box\" (rapid-fire summaries of the day's headlines) and \"Joe's World\", where Kernen sounded off on the day's notable stock stories.\n\nDuring the period when CNBC's online presence was housed at MSN Money, the show held its own daily \"Squawk Back Poll\" on the website, where viewers voted on a topical issue. In May 2005 the program established its own blog on Windows Live Spaces, called \"SquawkBlog\", where the program hosts posted their thoughts, although this is no longer in use.\n\nThe program underwent a significant revamp on December 19, 2005, with the show moving to the 6:00 am ET timeslot and Kernen, Quick and Carl Quintanilla helming a new tri-anchor format alongside on-air editor Charles Gasparino. Haines and Faber moved to a newly created program, \"Squawk on the Street\", anchored from the NYSE by Haines and Erin Burnett with Faber at CNBC headquarters. As a result of these changes, coverage of the market open at 9:30am ET passed to \"Squawk on the Street\". The \"guest host\" feature of \"Squawk Box\" was dropped immediately after the revamp but later reinstated.\n\nThere was a significant amount of initial negative feedback about the changes made to \"Squawk\", most notably the removal of Mark Haines from the team. On the \"Squawk Box\" blog, over 200 complaints were entered into the site, along with numerous messages posted on the CNBC message board.\n\nOn July 8, 2011, Quintanilla left \"Squawk Box\" to become part of the new \"Squawk on the Street\" anchor team, following Haines' death on May 24 of that year. His new assignment began three days later, when he debuted with Melissa Lee and Simon Hobbs. Andrew Ross Sorkin of \"The New York Times\", joined Kernen and Quick in order to succeed Quintanilla's anchoring duties. Sorkin made his debut as co-anchor July 18, 2011.\n\nOn October 13, 2014, \"Squawk Box\", along with CNBC's other trading-day shows, were launched in full 1080i high-definition as part of a network-wide switch to a full 16:9 letterbox presentation on that same day.\n\nOn January 7, 2015, \"Squawk Box\" moved to a new street-side studio inside the Time-Life Building in New York City after almost two decades in New Jersey (at CNBC's original facilities in Fort Lee from its August 7, 1995, debut to October 10, 2003, and at CNBC's facilities in Englewood Cliffs from October 13, 2003, to January 6, 2015).\n\nOn January 4, 2016, \"Squawk Box\" debuted a remastered version of its logo used since October 13, 2014. On February 8, 2016, both the Asian and European versions also started using the remastered \"Squawk Box\" logo.\n\nOn November 14, 2016, it was officially announced by the NASDAQ that production of \"Squawk Box\" would be relocated to the NASDAQ MarketSite studio in Times Square; it began broadcasting from there on January 3, 2017. That same studio is also shared with CNBC's two other shows, \"Fast Money\" and \"Options Action\" (the latter airing on Fridays only; both shows are hosted by Melissa Lee).\n\nOn November 15, 2017, \"Squawk Box\" moved downstairs to a new street-level studio overlooking Times Square, also at the NASDAQ MarketSite.\n\nThe program airs from 6 a.m. until 9 a.m. Eastern Time in the United States.\n\nIt is relayed in its entirety live on CNBC Europe although it is sometimes partially pre-empted for local programming, particularly to cover European Central Bank interest rate announcements and the subsequent press conferences.\n\nIn Asia, the show is aired in its entirety on CNBC Asia from Mondays to Fridays (vary between time to time during U.S. Daylight Saving Time and Standard Time). Also, it can be air in New Zealand from Tuesdays to Saturdays during Daylight Saving Time when U.S. is on Eastern Standard Time.\n\nCNBC once aired Squawk Box Weekend Edition weekends from 7:30 to 8 pm ET during c. 1999 to 2000, also hosted by Mark Haines.\n\nAround CNBC's global branches, there are many \"Squawk Boxes\" in the world:\nAmong the above, Squawk Box Europe and Asia Squawk Box are the counterparts which resemble the original Squawk Box the most:\n\n\n(Karen Tso moved to the Asian version of \"Squawk Box\" (and was based in Singapore) and after Amanda Drury briefly replaced Tso on \"Squawk Australia\", Oriel Morrison moved into that role in 2010 while Drury is now based in CNBC World Headquarters in the U.S.). Tso moved to the European version of \"Squawk Box\" after joining CNBC Europe in 2011.\n\n150,221 players participated in the \"Squawk Box Fantasy Portfolio Challenge\", a stock-picking contest that ran from April 4, 2006 through May 26, 2006. The winner of the \"Squawk Box Fantasy Portfolio Challenge\", which was announced live at the end of the 2 June 2006 episode, was Thomas Ko of California. His $5,015,735 portfolio value outpaced all the other contenders. He was also the winner of a brand-new, limited-production, 2006 Maserati GranSport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39970836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39970836", "title": "Tema Shipyard", "text": "Tema Shipyard\n\nTema Shipyard is a sea vessel construction company located in the port city of Tema in Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "2869644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2869644", "title": "Transport and Logistics Centre", "text": "Transport and Logistics Centre\n\nThe Transport and Logistics Centre (TALC) is a national policy and practice research centre based in Sydney, Australia. Its prime objective is the building of capability in the transport and logistics sector in Australia.\n\nThe Transport and Logistics Centre was established in 2000. It acts as a \"think tank\" for new ideas in capability building in T&L. It also provides advice to the T&L industry in matters of workforce planning and skills development - especially mentoring, innovation and knowledge sharing.From 2007 TALC became a not-for-profit company limited by guarantee with the same mandate as before, but with a greater capacity to undertake flexible programmes and projects.\n\nTALC is currently working with companies and unions and in T&L industry, and with the Commonwealth Department of Infrastructure and Transport, Infrastructure Australia, several industry Associations including the State-based Freight Councils, AFIF, LAA, CILTA, SCLAA, ARTIO, VTA, APICS and AITPM; and with State agencies including NSW RTA. TALC supports the Research Forum at the national SMART Conference. It also has a close working relationship in terms of research and field work with the Australian School of Business at the University of NSW, and the Workforce Futures Centre at Macquarie University.\n\nIt has a range of programmes underway; the main ones are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14261236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14261236", "title": "Undisclosed principal", "text": "Undisclosed principal\n\nIn agency law, an undisclosed principal is a person who uses an agent for negotiations with a third party who has no knowledge of the identity of the agent's principal. Often in such situations, the agent pretends to be acting for himself or herself. As a result, the third party does not know to look to the real principal in a dispute.\n\nUnder United States law according to the Restatement (Third) of Agency § 2.06, an undisclosed principal may still be held liable to a third party who justifiably is induced to make a detrimental change in position, even if the agent lacked actual authority to act on behalf of the principal, so long as the undisclosed principal had notice of agent's conduct and that it might induce the third party to change its position, and the principal did not take reasonable steps to notify the third party of the facts. Even where an undisclosed principal has previously forbidden the agent to take some action or incur some debt, the undisclosed principal may be liable for the action or debt so long as the third party would reasonably believe the agent would have had the authority to take the action or incur the debt under the same circumstances had the principal been disclosed, i.e. so long as the transaction is in the usual course of business engaged in by the agent.\n\nIn English law, the legal principle is that, where an agent acts for an undisclosed principal the position is “in much the same way as one who is disclosed”.\n\nThe undisclosed principal concept often arises in the context of real estate transactions, where a buyer risks a seller being less inclined to sell land, risks a seller demanding a higher price, or risks a seller becoming a holdout if the seller knows or can guess the identity of the buyer or the buyer's intended purpose for the land which would afford the land a higher value. The purchase of the land required to build the Walt Disney World resort in Orange County, Florida was accomplished with agents working for Walt Disney Productions as their undisclosed principal. Over eighteen months in 1964 and 1965, agents secretly working for Disney attorneys purchased 27,400 acres of Florida ranchland, swamp, scrub woods and road frontage for an average price of only R5.20 per acre ($5 million total). It is unlikely that Disney would have been able to acquire the land except at prohibitively high prices of hundreds of thousands of dollars per acre had the sellers known their buyer's identity, given the prices at which nearby land sold after Disney completed its acquisitions and publicly announced its plan. (The project could also have been delayed for years or decades as owners of crucial pieces of land held out for higher offers.)\n\n"}
{"id": "37845530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37845530", "title": "Wall Street (photograph)", "text": "Wall Street (photograph)\n\nWall Street is a platinum palladium print photograph by the American photographer Paul Strand taken in 1915. There are currently only two vintage prints of this photograph with one at the Whitney Museum of American Art (printed posthumously) and the other, along with negatives, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. This photograph was included in \"Paul Strand, circa 1916\", an exhibition of photographs that exemplify his push toward modernism.\n\nIt depicts a scene of everyday life in Manhattan's Financial District. Workers are seen walking past the J.P. Morgan & Co. building in New York City on the famous Wall Street, of which the photograph takes its name. The photograph is famous for its reliance on the sharpness and contrast of the shapes and angles, created by the building and the workers, that lead to its abstraction. This photograph is considered to be one of Strand's most famous works and an example of his change from pictorialism to straight photography. Strand moved from the posed to portraying the purity of the subjects. It is one of several images that stand as marks of the turn to modernism in photography.\n\nIn 1907, as a young teen, the artist, Paul Strand, enrolled in New York's Ethical Culture Fieldston School. There, Strand was under the tutelage of documentary photographer Lewis Hine. Hine introduced Strand to the modernist photographer Alfred Stieglitz. Stieglitz was heavily influential in the art world at the time, pushing for photography to be considered an art form and opening his own gallery, the 291 Gallery, with another influential photographer Edward Steichen, to promote modernist art. Stieglitz's colleagues were striving to receive acceptance for photography as a form of art. Stieglitz would become a mentor and artistic comrade of Strand, with both influencing each other for the rest of their careers.\n\nWith Stieglitz's influence, Strand explored the pictorialist style, creating works with soft focus, and posed scenes. Photographs aimed to look like paintings. Around 1915, Strand and Stieglitz sought to change their aesthetics and made the march toward straight photography. Stieglitz pushed Strand to involve real-life subjects and less manual manipulation of the print and utilized the style that was innate to the methods and materials of photography. Strand interpreted this request from Stieglitz and created this new style that incorporated high contrasts, clean lines, and emphasis on shape. These elements come from how Strand captured the real life and movements of subjects, not how he posed or manipulated them.\n\nThis photograph depicts the J.P. Morgan building in New York City. Strand photographed \"people hurrying to work past the banking building\" situated on Wall Street, from which the photo takes its name. the subject depicted is a real-life subject without manipulation. The depiction of the real nature of the medium and the subject is an example of straight photography. There is no focal point, with the lines converging off of the frame of the image. The financial building take majority of the frame. Emphasis is placed on the strong shapes created by the architecture of the building. The workers are included in the image, but are faceless and are trumped in size by the massive square shapes from the building they walk past. Also, the workers are captured in motion which on film makes them appear blurry. This aesthetic that Strand creates in Wall Street is his break toward the modern, the straight photography, demonstrating that pictorialism is no longer part of his aesthetic. Strand captured the building with clean, sharp lines. The building is covered in the high contrast, chiaroscuro. It is heavily in the shadows, but still creates an overwhelming presence over the people that walk past it. These people are also shrouded in the contrast made evident with the clean lines and black and white nature of his photos and photography as a medium. The people jump from their places, being the dark figures in the light of the sun that beams in from the left of the frame.\n\nStrand fills the image with his recognizable aesthetic. The photo is platinum print, one of the materials frequently used by photographers of the time. Strand was unique in how he printed his photos. As stated on the George Eastman House website section Notes on Photography, Strand would make large prints from small negatives. He also left them in their matte condition that was inherent with platinum print. With his printing techniques, he \"added a richness to the image.\" As with the time, the photo is entirely black and white. There is a heavy contrast with the black and white areas of the photo. Strand creates diagonal shapes that pull emphasis to subject of the building and away from the people.\n\nHaving taken Hine's class at the Ethical Culture Fieldston School, social change became important to Strand and appeared often in his art. As a pupil of Hine, Strand learned of the social aspect his work could have. With \"Wall Street\", he sought to portray a social message. He captured the faceless people next to the looming financial building in order to give a warning. Strand shows \"the recently built J.P. Morgan Co. building, whose huge, dark recesses dwarf the passersby with the imposing powers of uniformity and anonymity.\" The people cannot escape the overwhelming power that this modern establishment will have on their future and the future of America. He warns us to not be the small people that look almost ant-like next to this building that has a massive amount of control over the American economy.\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "58868137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58868137", "title": "Werner Brandt", "text": "Werner Brandt\n\nWerner Brandt (born January 3, 1954 in Herne) is a German manager.\n\nBrandt studied business administration at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg from 1976 to 1981, and received his doctorate from the TU Darmstadt in 1991.\n\nHe started his professional career at PriceWaterhouse in Stuttgart, where he was employed from 1981 to 1992. He then served as a member of the executive board of Baxter Deutschland GmbH for seven years before becoming CFO and labor director of Fresenius Medical Care AG, where he served for two years. From February 2001 to 30 June 2014, he was CFO of SAP AG. In September 2009, he succeeded his former SAP board colleague, Claus E. Heinrich, as a member of the board of the association “Zukunft Metropolregion Rhein-Neckar”(Future Metropolregion Rhein-Neckar) (ZMRN e.V.).\n\nBrandt is a member of the supervisory boards of Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Qiagen N.V. On 27 February 2013, RWE AG announced that the supervisory board decideded to propose Brandt for election to the supervisory board at the upcoming annual general meeting. Since 26 June 2014, he has been Chairman of the supervisory board of ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG and, since the conversion in 2016, ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE.\n\nBrandt was also a member and chairman of the supervisory board of innogy SE, but resigned due to personal reasons effective as of 31 December 2017.\n\nOn 18 November 2014, a press release from the IFRS Foundation announced that it would be acting as a member of the advisory board, beginning January 1, 2015.\n\nAt a conference on the future of employee ownership, which took place in Frankfurt am Main in November 2013, Brandt criticized, that the existing tax allowances in Germany, with only 360 Euro, are too low in international comparison. He pleaded for the British model with allowances that would equal around 3,500 Euro.\n\nBrandt predicted that without a change in the tax environment in Germany the size of employee ownership would not increase, which is currently less than 1% for many companies.\n\nHe is member of the board of the association \"Zukunft Metropolregion Rhein-Neckar\".\n"}
{"id": "995414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995414", "title": "Yehuda Arazi", "text": "Yehuda Arazi\n\nYehuda Arazi (; 1907–1959), code name \"Alon\", was an Israeli who was active in the Haganah in Palestine during the British Mandate era.\n\nArazi was born in Łódź to a Jewish family in 1907. He immigrated with his parents to Tel Aviv in the Mandatory Palestine in 1924, studying in the Gymnasia Herzlia. While in Palestine, Arazi joined the Haganah and the Palestine Police Force. As a police officer, he was most notably involved as the investigating officer in the 1933 murder of Chaim Arlosoroff. In 1936, Arazi was sent back to Poland to help smuggle matériel to Palestine.\n\nIn 1931 he married Rivka Albin, a year later their daughter Ruth was born. She married in 1955 the Supreme Court judge Gabriel Bach. His son Dan was born in 1941.\n\nIn 1943 he stole 5,000 rifles from the British Police for the Haganah, and had to go into hiding. In 1945, after two years of living in hiding as a wanted man in Palestine, Arazi and his partner Yitzhak Levy traveled to Egypt by train dressed as Royal Engineers sergeants. From there, they traveled through North Africa and into Italy, where they joined the Jewish Brigade of the British Army using falsified names. He was head of the Italy branch of the Mossad LeAliyah Bet, the Haganah agency involved in facilitating illegal Jewish immigration to Palestine, and was involved in the “La Spezia” affair. \n\nAfter the independence of Israel in 1948, Arazi became a private businessman and built the Ramat Aviv Hotel. He died of brain cancer in 1959. Shortly before his death, he befriended the artist Chaim Goldberg, also a Polish Jew, who was commissioned to execute several sculptures and a fully functional water fountain for the front of his hotel. The artist established his studio in a former munitions factory that he received from Arazi, that was located behind the hotel.\n\nArazi and the La Spezia affair gave the inspiration to Leon Uris for Ari Ben Canaan in \"Exodus\".\n\nArazi was known as “King of Ruses” changing disguises and characters according to needs.\n"}
{"id": "58009361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58009361", "title": "Áine Brazil", "text": "Áine Brazil\n\nÁine Brazil is an Irish engineer.\n\nA chartered engineer, Brazil is a fellow of Engineers Ireland and vice chair of Thornton Tomasetti, a New York engineering firm. A graduate of University College, Galway, Brazil won the award for International Engineer of the Year at the Engineers Ireland Excellence Awards in 2014.\n\n"}
